 Investing in shares are dictated by public information    If you have not realised this, it is not too late. Of late, investors world over made their buy or sell decisions on news originating from major economies and circulated by writers of business and economic news. Investors are jittery and they will get out of equity markets (thus depressing the markets) on any news that is negative. Good news was few when compared with deluge of negative news. The world over, except for oil-producing nations, faces slow-down in economic growth and inflation not seen as in many years. It is therefore natural to read more negative news than positive news in the various mass media.    Positive news caused stock index to move up. But not for long, the negative news soon came along and the index dropped in the process. The decline in stock index was often more severe than the uptick of the index. You then have a case of stock index trending downward but there can be several movements up and down along this downward trending line. As long as the index is trending downward, whenever you buy into a stock, the value of your stock will be lower than what you originally bought them, except for few exceptions with exceptional profits.    The story of stock prices is almost the same week after week. STI index dropped when Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped the night before. Oil prices rose and stock index dropped and conversely stock index rose on news of oil price decline. STI index mimics the Hang Seng Index and they moved in tandem. News of bank failures in US, such as IndyMac, drove down STI and banking stocks. Sub-prime mortgage problem affecting National Australian Bank recently affected our local bourse. This is despite the fact that the local banks have stated that their exposure to US sub-prime mortgage problems had been nearly fully written down.    It will be expected that the economic performance for the rest of the year will be weak. Most companies are bracing for less than optimistic set of financial results when compared with 2007 results. Companies will be cautious in business investments or expansions, which will further slow down economic growth of the country.    Investing in stocks require more work than just buying on sentiments or feelings or on momentum. You have to analyse how the economic problems, such as oil price increases, affect the companys operation. In short, you have to look at each company specifically and decide for yourself how it can or able to ride out this difficult economic period. Reading news of specific company is still necessary but you will have to decide how to use them in buy, sell or hold decisions of that particular stock and this is the difficult part.    Written on 7/28/2008 5:02 PM    Copyright  2008, the author known as LKT in Singapore.    The material presented is intended to be general and written in laymans language as much as it is possible. The author shall not be liable for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of material written. Please seek professional advice from your financial advisor or financial institutions on material written covering financial matters. 
