Lloyds Development Capital, the private equity arm of Lloyds TSB, has acquired a minority stake in Eve Trakway, a temporary vehicle and pedestrian access equipment provider.   Park Place Corporate Finance acted as lead advisors on the deal whilst the acquisition finance team within Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets provided senior debt and working capital facilities. No sum was disclosed.   Eve Trakway, founded 40 years ago, carried out a management buyout led by managing director Rick Barnett and finance director Chris Lowton from support services group Babcock in April 2006. The MBO was funded by Burdale Financial, a member of Bank of Ireland Group, and Mitsui Sumitomo.  The business supplies roadways, footpaths, bridges, crowd control barriers and ground protection systems at events such as Live 8, the RHS Chelsea Flower Show and the London Marathon. Since 2002, it has provided the Glastonbury festival with a 'Super Fortress Fence' to curtail the practice of fence jumping.   "We've now reached the stage where an acquisitional strategy is the best route to gaining the scale and expanded range of products needed to fully capitalise on the huge potential this firm has," said Rick Barnett, managing director of Eve Trakway.   Prior to LDC's involvement, Eve Trakway had bought Rola-Trac, Supa-Trac and Alli-Trac from Rola-Trac Ltd.   LDC recently lost its regional managing director Grant Berry, who will pursue interests "outside of private equity". LDC's Manchester office will now be headed by directors Carl Wormald and Ray Stenton, who have both been with the company for five years.  Source: Thomson Merger News Lloyds Development Capital, the private equity arm of Lloyds TSB, has acquired a minority stake in Eve Trakway, a temporary vehicle and pedestrian access equipment provider.   Park Place Corporate Finance acted as lead advisors on the deal whilst the acquisition finance team within Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets provided senior debt and working capital facilities. No sum was disclosed.   Eve Trakway, founded 40 years ago, carried out a management buyout led by managing director Rick Barnett and finance director Chris Lowton from support services group Babcock in April 2006. The MBO was funded by Burdale Financial, a member of Bank of Ireland Group, and Mitsui Sumitomo.  The business supplies roadways, footpaths, bridges, crowd control barriers and ground protection systems at events such as Live 8, the RHS Chelsea Flower Show and the London Marathon. Since 2002, it has provided the Glastonbury festival with a 'Super Fortress Fence' to curtail the practice of fence jumping.   "We've now reached the stage where an acquisitional strategy is the best route to gaining the scale and expanded range of products needed to fully capitalise on the huge potential this firm has," said Rick Barnett, managing director of Eve Trakway.   Prior to LDC's involvement, Eve Trakway had bought Rola-Trac, Supa-Trac and Alli-Trac from Rola-Trac Ltd.   LDC recently lost its regional managing director Grant Berry, who will pursue interests "outside of private equity". LDC's Manchester office will now be headed by directors Carl Wormald and Ray Stenton, who have both been with the company for five years.  Source: Thomson Merger News        
