 It's difficult to know at this stage who will lose their head first, Bedraggled &amp; Buggered or their American analogue  IMB (I'm a Bank get me out of here!) If I had to guess I'd reckon it was IMB, given that the stock (@ 43cents) has just lost 40% in a day, and their market cap, (the total value of all outstanding stock) is now $43Mn This as compared to B&amp;B which is now worth 32p a share, with a market cap of 210Mn having fallen about 50% in 3 days.July 8 (Bloomberg) -- IndyMac Bancorp Inc., the California- based lender that is firing half its employees, plunged 37 percent in early trading after being told by regulators the bank isn't "well capitalized." [link]This lead to them releasing a letter to investors which, frankly, makes for grim viewing. They're sacking more than half the workforce, and stopping writing more business as they can no longer afford to. They're also operating under a plan overseen by the regulator, so I suspect they're probably not even allowed to lend anymore.IndyMac, the second-largest independent U.S. mortgage lender last year behind Countrywide Financial Corp., lost almost $900 million in the nine months ended in March. Countrywide were rescued last week by Bank of America, with the help of the US Federal reserve, after they too developed "engine trouble" earlier in the year. Consequently, even Reuters is reporting the following:NEW YORK (Reuters) - IndyMac Bancorp Inc shares fell by more than 40 percent on Tuesday, a day after the large California mortgage specialist said it doesn't have enough capital and will stop offering most home loans, and an analyst said shareholders may be wiped out. [link]B&amp;B on the other hand are comparatively well capitalised, in fact according to something I saw yesterday, once they get the 400Mn they're currently after, they're going to have the best tier one capital adequacy ratio of any UK bank. Sadly I can't find the link at short notice so you'll just have to take my word for it.However. Since the rights issue, is at 55p, and the current stock price as I write this is 32p,  it's unlikely that ordinary investors will take part. This means the banks that underwrite the deal, (hastily cobbled together by the Bank of England) will absorb the shares, if they go to zero the backstop banks themselves lose capital. Nor does it stop there, of that 400Mn, it cost B&amp;B 55Mn just to raise the cash. B&amp;B also has an obligation to buy 350m of mortgages every three months from specialist lender GMAC until 2009.When B&amp;B issued a profits warning on June 2 it revealed arrears in its acquired mortgages were 5pc of the book, compared to the 1.9pc of loans it originated itself. Some hedge funds believe B&amp;B could lose 400m - the value of its current rights issue - on the GMAC book alone. [link]So, you can see how the fact that B&amp;B, of all banks, should have the best tier one capital, is at least "worrying".Finally, we have this bit of cheery news from MoneyWeek:Just this week Albert Edwards, the well known strategist at SocGen, said that the mood among investors had deteriorated in the past couple of weeks.  "The dominant emotion in the square mile is fear." He expects the S&amp;P 500 to bottom out at about 500 and FTSE at 3000 and we agree.At present the S&amp;P 500 stands at 1,268 and the FTSE closed at 5,440.The good news? The market is scheduled for a "relief" rally over the next few days, "smoke 'em if you've got 'em"
