Wall Street rises as data spurs optimism Wednesday April 1, 2009, 11:05 am EDT Buzz up! Print Related:Boeing Co., Bank of America Corporation, Celgene Corporation By Leah Schnurr Related Quotes Symbol Price Change BA 35.00 -0.58 BAC 7.18 +0.36 CELG 37.92 -6.48 {"s" : "ba,bac,celg","k" : "c10,l10,p20,t10","o" : "","j" : ""} NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks rose on Wednesday as data on home sales and manufacturing added to hopes that the economic slump was moderating, prompting investors to scoop up bank shares. The data offset negative sentiment arising from a report showing job losses in the private sector accelerated in March, reviving worries of high unemployment, as well as fears that struggling automaker General Motors could be headed for bankruptcy. Factory activity in March shrank, but at a slower pace than the month before, while pending sales of existing homes rose modestly in February, but the housing market remained weak as values continued to decline. Private sector job losses rose more than expected, however, ADP Employer Services said, adding to jitters ahead of the government nonfarm payrolls report for March due on Friday. "I would call it somewhat encouraging. It's not a major improvement but it feels ... that the rate of decline is diminishing," said Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James Financial in St Petersburg, Florida. "I've been doing this for 38 years and it feels to me like the worm has turned." Market watchers were also focused on the Group of 20 summit in London as leaders of the world's top economies meet to tackle the global economic crisis. Shares of GM (NYSE:GM - News) fell 5.7 percent to $1.83 following a New York Times report that the Obama administration is seeking to ease GM into a "controlled" bankruptcy by persuading some creditors to agree to a plan that would split the company into two pieces. The Dow Jones industrial average (DJI:^DJI - News) rose 55.83 points, or 0.73 percent, to 7,664.75. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index (^SPX - News) gained 5.19 points, or 0.65 percent, to 803.06. The Nasdaq Composite Index (Nasdaq:^IXIC - News) added 8.98 points, or 0.59 percent, to 1,537.57. The broad S&amp;P was up more than 17 percent from 12-year lows hit in early March and on Tuesday closed out the month at its best since October 2002. The rally has been fueled by hopes that the economy is showing signs of stabilization. Financial shares (^GSPF - News) turned around following the manufacturing and homes data to be the top boost on the S&amp;P, gaining 1.4 percent. JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM - News) was up 4 percent at $27.65 while Bank of America (NYSE:BAC - News) gained more 4.7 percent to $7.14. On the downside, Boeing (NYSE:BA - News) was among the Dow's top drags, down 1.5 percent at $35.05, after Wachovia Capital Markets cut its rating on the commercial aerospace sector, including Boeing, to "market perform", citing expectations of lower aircraft deliveries starting next year. On Tuesday, GM said there was a rising chance it could file for bankruptcy by June. The comments came on the heels of the ouster of its Chief Executive Officer, Rick Wagoner, and details of the U.S. administration's plans limiting taxpayer funds for automakers. While U.S. President Barack Obama played down differences between G20 leaders meeting in London, Germany and France demanded tough action rather than weak compromises, highlighting the difficulties in reaching an accord on staving off recession and tightening regulation. On the Nasdaq, Celgene Corp (NasdaqGS:CELG - News) was among the biggest weights, shedding 14.4 percent to $38.00 after several brokerages cut price targets for the biotechnology company. (Additional reporting by Edward Krudy; Editing by James Dalgleish)
