         The ongoing mortgage crisis caused by the collapse of the U.S. property market bubble has deepened financial stress within the global financial and economic order. Several major banks and investments houses have failed or taken over by traditional deposits taking institutions. The first major bank to go was Bear Sterns. JP Morgan Chase a conglomerate created a decade ago, swallowed Bear Sterns without any opposition. This is to prop up the stockbrokering and securities market from caving in.Over the last month, 2 private mortgage originators created by statutes (Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac) went under and the U.S. Treasury acquired them to prevent a spill into the wider market. Then there was AIG the big insurance company which spans huge operations across the globe was given a financial lifeline from the U.S. Treasury. AIG had massive debts from the sub prime loans.Lehman Brothers the most well known investment bank suffered a deep fall in its market capitalization. It was forced into bankruptcy and its subsidiaries overseas were in receivership. Bankruptcy in the U.S. means the company can still re-organize to pay off creditors. It sold its U.S&gt; investment unit and trading units to Barclays. Overnight Nomura Securites bought the Japanese assets of Lehman Brothers, this includes its investment and trading units.Other financial institutions the likes of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs asked for regulatory approval to transform into bank holding companies. This effectively means the era of standalone independent investment banks are over. Morgan Stanley will allow Japan's UFJ holdings to invest in its business and allow a sustainable level of funding. Meanwhile Goldman Sachs will find opportunities to build up its retail banking unit. All institutions will now face higher regulation but with financial backing from the FDIC.The biggest savings bank; Washington Mutual didn't survive, its share price slide downwards and drastically it was acquired by JP Morgan Chase. Wachovia another east coast based savings bank had substantial sub prime loans which it couldn't get out of it, got annexed by Citigroup. Citigroup was the first to show financial distress with all the loans, with its new CEO, the conglomerate is facing a better chance of surviving with a bigger market in the consumer banking sector. Merril Lynch will be acquired by the Bank of America. Merril Lynch was sold at half the price it was worth at its peak. It is still a decent price but Bank of America will gain traction in the investment market and be a major player.           
