Market Meltdown Culprit? Credit InsuranceQuestion: What do you call a financial house of cards that's insured?Answer: a financial house of cards.Just as portfolio insurance was fingered as a prime culprit in the 1987 stock market crash, another kind of insurance -- against credit defaults -- is rapidly emerging at the center of today's unfolding stock market crash and spreading global financial crisis.But first, the house of cards.It's no secret that Wall Street leverage reached unprecedented heights the last few years. Unlike regulated banks, which are allowed maximum leverage of about 10:1, investment banks like Bear Stearns, Lehman Bros. and others staked out positions levered at 30:1, 40:1, or more.To illustrate what extreme leverage does to investment returns, imagine the consequences of buying a $1 asset with leverage approaching 50:1.To translate, 50:1 leverage means that you are buying a $1 asset with two cents of your own money and 98 cents debt. If the asset even goes up a modest amount, to say, $1.05, you've done enormously well: your two cents has turned into seven cents -- a return of 350%!However, consider what happens if the $1 asset drops to 95 cents: you're wiped out.As long as housing kept rising, the former scenario held and Wall Street made fabulous amounts of money. However, housing nationally peaked more than two years ago, and has been falling ever since. Wall Street is now very much on the painful side of that double-edged sword.Exacerbating matters exponentially is what Wall Street did to reduce the risk of a downturn.Mindful that it was building a financial house of cards, Wall Street bought insurance against a collapse. To go back to the previous example, the firms lending 98 cents on the dollar bought insurance protecting them against the risk that borrowers would default.If the asset in question ever fell to 95 cents (or lower), the lenders expected to collect the insurance and come out whole.So they're safe, right? Wrong.It turns out that the companies writing the insurance, led by AIG, had a small fraction of the reserves needed to make good on all their commitments.  So the illusion that Wall Street's house of cards somehow had a backstop or guaranty has been destroyed.What we're witnessing now is what happens to a house of cards after the "insurance" supporting it has been breached.
