The rising gasoline prices and increasing credit crunch has lead to the squeezing of the auto industry, with stocks dropping and mergers being considered. In fact, auto sales have dropped 12.8% for this year, with a sharp fall of 27% for the month of September. This is the worst month for the auto industry since February 1993.  With this fall in the auto industry, Ford stocks had fallen 8.9% on Monday 13Th October 2008; a drop of 36 cents per Ford share. Similarly, GM stocks had a drop of 52 cents or a 5.8% fall to reach the rate of $8.48 per share. In fact, it was this declining stock price that had led to the removal of GM from the S&amp;amp;P 100. However GM still remains in the S&amp;amp;P 500 and is still a part of Dow Industrials. GM bankruptcy is not in the cards Nevertheless, although GM stocks had suffered such a major drop in their prices, General Motors Corp has stated that they are in no way considering GM bankruptcy for protection sakes. The main reasons for the drop in the GM stocks and the auto industry in general are a forecasters report stating that the global auto market would soon suffer from an outright collapse in during 2009. By not considering GM bankruptcy, GM had considered announcing plans in July 2008 for improving its liquidity by $15 billion by the end of 2009. With this move, they intend to make up for two thirds of the costs through cost cuts and through asset sales as well as fresh borrowing. GM stated in an announcement that it is true that they are facing numerous challenges in the global financial markets and low economic fundamentals of some key markets. However despite all this, they firmly state that GM bankruptcy is not on their minds at all as it would not in any way be in the interests of stockholders, suppliers, employees or customers. Increased Cash Requirements of GM Moreover, industry forecaster, J.D. Power and Associates have issued a warning stating that auto sales in the US would be even lower next year. In addition to this, they state that the global auto markets face the danger of going through an outright collapse in 2009. According to Barclays, all this will collectively lead to an increased risk of strong drops in the auto sales internationally; leading to an increase in the cash requirements of GM. In fact, Barclays analyst Brian Johnson forecasts that as a consequence, GM would have to raise $10.3 billion so that it can at least maintain its liquidity of $14 billion throughout the next fiscal year. This figure is an escalated one from the previous estimate of GM requiring bringing up $7.3 billion within the same time frame. Talks for a Chrysler GM Merger  So as a refuge, it is said a deal materialized that would have a great impact on the global auto industry. This deal is that the American giant (GM) has held preliminary talks with its rival auto company, Chrysler about the chances of the two forming a merger. This GM Chrysler Merger has not been made official so far but is considered to be 50-50 as of Friday. However it is speculated that things would work out in the next few weeks. People familiar with these talks, state that negotiations and meetings between GM and Chrysler was not something new and were started more than a month ago. As a consequence, the two companies have held a few talks between their senior executives. The New York Times had reported on Saturday that as both GM and Chrysler are struggling financially with the auto market collapse, the GM Chrysler merger may actually not be in their best interests.   GM Chrysler Merger better option to hitching to foreign automakers The two sides have held numerous talks that included discussions on different calculations on the amount of saving the two companies will get through a Chrysler GM merger. Nonetheless, up to now neither of the two companies has actually dug into each others private financial records. The newspaper has also stated that if the countrys largest automaker GM actually did merge with Chrysler, the smallest of Detroits Big Three, the result would be an auto giant that far surpasses Japans Toyota Motor Company. However, New York Times states that it is not clear how the government and the labor would react to this Chrysler GM merger. It states that there is a possibility of anti-trust questions being discussed; though all these political issues would be overshadowed by the dangerous financial situation of the two companies. However it is much better to have a GM and Chrysler Merger than hitching Chrysler to foreign automakers. This is because although both companies are tied up with labor contracts from cutting jobs, it is possible for both companies to combine their deals, advanced vehicle technology and production lines. Merger can ensure the survival of GM in auto industry Moreover with GM losing $15.5 billion in only the second quarter, a mega merger is the best strategy for survival in the auto industry. Talks of a merger between GM and Cerberus, the owners of Chrysler will last for weeks as they may face differences in matters pertaining to price issues and the challenges of the integration. It was basically after Cerberus had acquired an 80.1% in the Chrysler Company from its previous owner, Daimler of Germany that its struggle in the auto market had begun. Though Chrysler had cut down many jobs, closed down plants and stopped production it was the fact that GM had money that could have stirred GMs interest to Chrysler. Some rise in stock prices After a week of low rates on their shares, there has been a notable increase in their share costs. This rise in GM stocks is the largest percentage rise of stock in the Dow Jones industrial average. The factors that are considered to have lead to the price rebound included credit where dealers and customers all depended on access to loans for a boost in the auto industry. Even the vague Chrysler and GM Merger talks have a part in the rebound of GM and Chryslers stock.
