         Many conservatives and most libertarians are going to hate this post.McCain and Palin are right to blame "greedy Wall Street operators." This is where I part company with most socalled conservative commentators (such as those at the Corner) who have criticized McCain and Palin for being "populist." What's "populist" about demanding credibility and accountability of those whom we have entrusted to invest our hard-earned money?The real credit crisis is not that ordinary Americans with good credit history can't get loans. They can. Our local bankers have all gone on record in the local newspaper saying that there is no credit crunch for mortgages or small business loans to qualified people.No, the real credit crisis is that investment banks no longer trust each other. Why? Because they all cooked the books. I'm not going to write anything that hasn't already been written by others with more knowledge about "derivatives" and the "credit default swap" scam that created the current "credit crisis." The fact is that I knew nothing about "credit default swaps" until recently and, as soon as I read about them, I got the picture loud and clear.What I've understood so far is that "credit default swaps" are sales contracts between two investment banks whereby the seller promises to "insure" risky investments; promises that the buyer will be paid in full if the investment fails; basically pie-in-the-sky BS.The current "credit crisis" was caused by the selling and trading of complex financial instruments called "derivatives," which are "financial instruments" that derive their values from underlying assets but no real collateral - just a "promise" - what is known in business as "blue sky." And, of course the  "credit default swaps" were not really "insured." Underwriting insurance is based on setting aside reserves of money to cover losses. And the insurance industry is licensed and regulated. The "credit default swap" scam was not underwritten, licensed or regulated.Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Merrill Lynch invented and sold weird and wonderful "derivatives" based on the sub-prime mortgage market. They used "credit default swaps" to make investors believe that their investments were safe. AIG was one of the biggest "underwriters" of these shady "derivatives." We all know what happened next: these institutions were stuck with large liabilities as the sub-prime mortgage market failed because they had no money to back up their promises of "insurance."It now seems that the size of the "credit default swap" market is $50 to $60 trillion dollars. And who holds these "credit default swaps?" Yep, pension funds, mutual funds, hedge funds, commercial banks, brokerage houses and individuals with IRAs and 410Ks - you and me. Just think about what $50 trillion dollars is. The US Federal debt is about $10 trillion  The "credit default swap" scam is five or six times the debt of the US government.Last night 60 Minutes did a piece on the "credit default swap" market. Here are some snippets from the transcript:"This is a full-blown financial storm and one that comes around perhaps once every 50 or 100 years. This is the real thing," says Jim Grant, the editor of "Grant's Interest Rate Observer."Grant is one of the countrys foremost experts on credit markets. He says it didn't have to happen, that this disaster was created entirely by Wall Street itself, during a time of relative prosperity. And they did it by placing a trillion dollar bet, with mostly borrowed money, that the riskiest mortgages in the country could be turned into gold-plated investments.[...]"The idea that you could lend money to someone who couldn't pay it back is not an inherently attractive idea to the layman, right. However, it seemed to fly with people who were making $10 million a year," Grant says.With its clients clamoring for safe investments with above average return, the big Wall Street investment houses bought up millions of the least dependable mortgages, chopped them up into tiny bits and pieces, and repackaged them as exotic investment securities that hardly anyone could understand.[...]These complex financial instruments were actually designed by mathematicians and physicists, who used algorithms and computer models to reconstitute the unreliable loans in a way that was supposed to eliminate most of the risk.[...]"How much of this catastrophe had to do with the instruments that Wall Street created and chose to buyand sell?" Kroft asks Jim Grant."The instruments themselves are at the heart of this mess," Grant says. "They are complex, in effect, mortgage science projects devised by these Nobel-tracked physicists who came to work on Wall Street for the very purpose of creating complex instruments with all manner of detailed protocols, and who gets paid when and how much. And the complexity of the structures is at the very center of the crisis of credit today."[...]What most people outside of Wall Street and Washington don't know is that a lot of people who bought these risky mortgage securities also went out and bought even more arcane investments that Wall Street was peddling called "credit default swaps." And they have turned out to be a much bigger problem.They are private and largely undisclosed contracts that mortgage investors entered into to protect themselves against losses if the investments went bad. And they are part of a huge unregulated market that has already helped bring down three of the largest firms on Wall Street, and still threaten the ones that are left.Before your eyes glaze over, Michael Greenberger, a law professor at the University of Maryland and a former director of trading and markets for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, says they are much simpler than they sound. "A credit default swap is a contract between two people, one of whom is giving insurance to the other that he will be paid in the event that a financial institution, or a financial instrument, fails," he explains."It is an insurance contract, but they've been very careful not to call it that because if it were insurance, it would be regulated. So they use a magic substitute word called a 'swap,' which by virtue of federal law is deregulated," Greenberger adds."So anybody who was nervous about buying these mortgage-backed securities, these CDOs, they would be sold a credit default swap as sort of an insurance policy?" Kroft asks."A credit default swap was available to them, marketed to them as a risk-saving device for buying a risky financial instrument," Greenberger says.But he says there was a big problem. "The problem was that if it were insurance, or called what it really is, the person who sold the policy would have to have capital reserves to be able to pay in the case the insurance was called upon or triggered. But because it was a swap, and not insurance, there was no requirement that adequate capital reserves be put to the side.""Now, who was selling these credit default swaps?" Kroft asks."Bear Sterns was selling them, Lehman Brothers was selling them, AIG was selling them. You know, the names we hear that are in trouble, Citigroup was selling them," Greenberger says.How big is the market for credit default swaps?Says Partnoy, "Well, we really don't know. There's this voluntary survey that claims that the market is in the range of 50 to 60 or so trillion dollars. It's sort of alarming that, in a market that big, we don't even know how big it is to within, say, $10 trillion.""Sixty trillion dollars. I know it seems incredible. It's four times the size of the U.S. debt. But that's the size of the market according to these voluntary reports," says Partnoy.He says this market is almost entirely unregulated.The result is a huge shadow market that may control our financial destiny, and yet the details of these private insurance contracts are hidden from the public, from stockholders and federal regulators. No one knows what they cover, who owns them, and whether or not they have the money to pay them off.One of the few sources of information is the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), a trade organization made up the largest financial institutions in the world. Many of them are the very same companies that created the vast shadow market, lobbied to keep it unregulated, and are now drowning because of unanticipated risks.[...]"You got Wall Street firms, Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers. You got insurance companies like AIG. Merrill lost a ton of money on this," Kroft says. "Everybody's lost a ton of money. They're supposed to be the smartest investors in the world. And they did it themselves.""They did it all on their own," Partnoy agrees. "That's the most incredible thing about this crisis is that they pushed the button themselves. They blew themselves up."Asked how much of this was incompetence on the part of Wall Street and the people who ran it, Jim Grant tells Kroft, "The truth is that on Wall Street, a lot of people just weren't very good at their jobs. It's as simple as that.""These people were being paid $50 to $100 million a year. Some of them, the guys that were running the places," Kroft remarks."There is no defending," Grant replies. "A trainee making 45,000 a year would have had the common sense not to bet the firm on mortgage contraptions that no one in the firm actually understood. That is not a deep point to comprehend. Somehow, through, I will call it a criminal neglect and incompetence, the people at the top of these firms chose to look away, to take more risk, to enrich themselves and to put the shareholders and, indeed, the country, itself, ultimately, the country's economy at risk. And it is truly not only a shame, it's a crime." I've known many investment bankers and stockbrokers. They have to be gamblers. Even my small businesses have been gambles. Some failed and others succeeded. But the difference between me and the hot-shot guys on Wall Street and those I knew on Montgomery Street in San Francisco ...
