 Stocks Slip on Economic Worries- AP   Investors' concerns about the U.S. economy aren't letting up even as Congress reached a deal on a $789 billion economic stimulus plan. A surprise jump in January retail sales couldn't lift the market's downcast mood, either. Stocks tumbled Thursday as Wall Street looked past the stimulus plan and economic data to cautious earnings forecasts and lingering questions about the health of the banking sector.     Mortgage rates slide on uncertainty   Mortgage rates fell during the past week, pushed lower from the uncertainty stemming from the bank bailout plan unveiled Tuesday.     Foreclosures push U.S. home prices to 5-year low   NEW YORK (Reuters) - Prices of existing U.S. single-family homes dropped a record 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to the lowest level since 2003, the National Association of Realtors said on Thursday.     Oil slides toward multiyear lows   COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -- Oil prices slid closer to a new multiyear low Thursday because of growing doubts that the $789 billion stimulus package will reinvigorate the U.S. economy and demand for energy     More Signs of Economic Weakness   The number of Americans requesting first-time unemployment benefits dropped slightly last week, but remained near a 26-year high as companies lay off thousands of workers amid a deepening recession. The Commerce Department said the number of initial jobless benefit claims dropped to a seasonally adjusted 623,000, from an upwardly revised figure of 631,000 the previous week. The latest tally still was above analysts' expectations of 610,00 claims.    In a sign that laid-off workers are having difficulty finding new work, the number of people claiming benefits for more than one week rose to 4.81 million from 4.78 million, the highest total since records began in 1967. The continuing claims data lags the new claims numbers by one week.     Wall Street slides on economic fears   "There is a growing sense that the passage of the stimulus and the bank rescue, which people were eagerly awaiting, are not enough to turn the sentiment," said Eric Kuby, chief investment officer at North Star Investment Management Corp in Chicago."    Adding to the dire sentiment, rating agency Moody's Investors Service said top 'AAA' credit rating of the United States was "being tested" as the current crisis continues to pressure growth.    Financial shares dragged on the broader market, with the KBW Bank index off more than 6 percent, due to persistent worry about a lack of clarity over how the Obama administration would cleanse toxic assets from the bank's books.    U.S. front-month crude dropped 2 percent to $35.21 a barrel due to signs that faltering economies would crimp energy demand. Chevron declined 1.43 percent to $69.60.    Standout decliners among banks included Citigroup , down 4.6 percent to $3.52; Wells Fargo , off nearly 11 percent at $15.59, and Bank of America , down 7.1 percent to $5.64.
