   Hendrix wrote: Unfortunatly my computer's messed so I can't read the article.  But I don't like the thought of players having to get stats.  Just interfere's with the whole point of the game too much; winning.   Also the NBA already protects the owners as best you really can.  Every year the salary, and tax are set, and I believe 41% or something of income is supposed to go to the players salaries leaving the rest for owners, and other expenses.    So the owners on average across the league are always gauranteed to make money as long as they don't a)totaly sqrew up their expenses b)The leagues income doesn't drop significantly while players were still on contract from the good times.   Not really a whole lot you can do about "b".  Maybe shorter contracts I guess, but it's never really been a problem since the inception of the league.   Great post. I agree with every word of this.  The problem is not players contracts. The owners get their money, and it's up to them on how they want to spend on players. It's never really a problem until a once-in-a-lifetime horrid economic time like the one we're facing. It's unusual, so I don't think they have to go changing the whole CBA because of it (though they will anyway).  And I totally agree on the stat opinion. Stats are why Rashard Lewis got the contract that he got. I thought his contract was pretty egregious, and after reading the comments here, I thought so even more. So I looked him up, and saw the stats he was getting before the contract. Now I understand why he got the contract he got. And that's exactly why owners shouldn't give huge contracts  just  based on stats...  I think they should give max contracts to those who can either: A)Carry franchises.  or B)Sell a lot of tickets.  or C)Are complimentary second-options who are the  the heart and soul  of a team.  Lewis is a complimentary player, but I don't think he'd ever be classified as someone you have to have. Kenyon Martin in his Nets day is a classic example of someone who should've gotten a maximum contract, just based on my third point. I know that's kind of an unpopular opinion, especially in light of his injuries, but I think at the time he was the heart of that team, and gave them the intensity and will to win. There's a reason why Jason Kidd was so pissed that Kenyon was let go.
