          But this snip helps explain why the government continues to pump money into AIG's black hole.   Wendy,   There may be a solution. I don't  know exactly, but let me tell you a story.  One day I was on an oil rig off the coast of Louisiana. I was installing phones in the Company Mans Office (The Company Man was the oil company's representative on the rig and generally was a petroleum engineer, for all practical purposes he was the owner of the rig.) News came in on the radio that there was a major fire on the docks a Fourchon. I did not think much of it. The docks were not close to the heliport and getting home on the helicopter was my concern.   http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&amp;source=s_q&amp;hl=en&amp;amp...    I had a lot of work to do, but we were only allowed to work 18 hours a day, safety you know, so I was assigned a bed, took a shower and turned in for  the required 6 hours of sleep. During the night, I was woke up by a significant BUMP. I heard some loud voices and there seemed to be a lot of activity for a few minutes, then it quieted back down and I finished my nap.  In the morning, while working up in the office, I heard the company man ordering more mud. Now mud is the stuff that is pumped down on top of the drill bit as the oil well is drilled. It has two purposes, one it keeps everything lubricated, this isn't your mud pie mud, and the other is it keeps things like gas and oil in the ground. As the well is drilled, different levels of oil and gas are passed, the levels, or pockets are not what the company is looking for, but they need to stay in the ground or the rig will experience a blow out and the rig hands like myself would get to find out just how uncomfortable those orange life pods really are.  The BUMP that I had felt was a pocket of highly compressed gas that the drill bit had entered. The driller had drilled on by it, but the area was very porous. The mud kept disappearing.   Typically the work boats can get all of the mud they need from the warehouses in Fourchon, but the warehouses had burned down. The rig was mixing up mud and pumping it into the hole, but it was disappearing into the porous sand. No one knew how big the area of porous sand was.  There is a way to stop the loss of mud, and the company man used it. He made a "pill" this is extra thick mud, it might even have some concrete mixed in with it. It was designed so that it hardened above the level of the porous sand. I don't know how bad this was for the well, I don't know if they had to abandon the well, or just the drill and bit, or if they were able to save the down hole equipment and restart from the pill when more mud became available. Whatever the case, they had to send the pill down, or the rig would have experienced a blow out and the entire rig as well as the well would have been lost.  Maybe AIG needs a pill.  Cheers Qazulight                  
