 graphic by Brooks Elliott  It looks like the Obama team is going to go with the bad bank idea. Meanwhile, nationalization is no longer just an hallucination of DFHs. Joseph Stiglitz is talking about it at CNN (drawing, I might add, a delightful collection of crazed libertarians in the comments.)   Todays question: either way, what are Credit Default Swaps going to cost us?    The financial statements of Citi show a portfolio of CDSs consisting of  $1.57tn in protection sold, and $1.67 in protection bought.  See page 41. Bank of America shows $1.21tn in protection bought and $1.22tn in protection sold. See page 149.   The last round of financing to Bank of America, that last $100bn, was in large part due to problems with Merrill Lynch CDSs, according to Gretchen Morgenson in the NYT. If this is like what happened to AIG, Merrill Lynch had to post collateral for a huge amount of CDSs, and wasnt able to without taxpayer assistance. So, for the second time we have been forced to save this worthless excuse for a market. There is no reason to believe it wont get worse, and that Citi and BoA  will have to put up more collateral, and we have no idea whether they can post it.    And to pile up the cash collateral already posted, players in the market had to sell billions in securities. Did that affect your 401K?    What will happen to the CDS portfolios of these behemoths if we nationalize them? Are we going to wind up paying off on some part of these bets? This is from Morgensons article:    While the amount of credit insurance outstanding is around $30 trillion, Robert Arvanitis, chief executive of Risk Finance Advisors in Westport, Conn., says he believes fully half that amount isnt problematic because it consists of winning and losing stakes that offset each other.  But that still leaves $15 trillion worth of contracts that may be in need of triage.    Suppose half of the portfolios at Citi and BoA are offsets. That leaves them exposed to half of their portfolios of protection sold, about $836bn at Citi and $612bn at BoA. That could be a ton of collateral, and when the reference entities fail, its gone. Even if the reference entities dont fail, the collateral is tied up, and not available for lending. At the same time, the collateral posted to support the equally large portfolio of protection bought isnt available for lending either.    So, the nationalization stuff looks to have serious downside. How about the bad bank? Does the FDIC plan on buying CDSs? We know that the problem at AIG was that it issued CDSs on collateralized debt obligations. The collateral in these instruments includes all sorts of stuff, like securities, bank loans, and, of course, mortgages, including sub-prime junk. When the CDOs soured, AIG couldnt post the collateral, and we had to pony up. So we do need to worry if the Bad Bank decides to buy CDSs.    The problem with the Bad Bank is pricing the assets to be bought, just like it was with the initial plan for the TARP. Banks will pay lobbyists to insist that pricing of CDSs isnt a problem, because there is a market. Heres a description of that market from the Financial Times (H/T Calculated Risk):    David Goldman, an old friend and credit strategist turned private investor, still goes through the credit run sheets from the dealers. "The business looks like the window of a Brezhnev-era Soviet butcher shop. Mouldy scraps hanging in the window. Old women lining up at 4am to try and buy credit protection on General Motors. What are reported as trades are really ways to establish prices to satisfy the auditors."     Not only that, Citi and BoA are both market-makers and players in the CDS market. The market consists of a relatively small pool of speculators, hedge funds, and banks. Why would we have any confidence in those prices? The Financial Times article offers this story:    Howard Simons, one of the Chicago traders who always loathed the New York CDS dealers, speaks for many of his comrades in rejecting the trading of CDS on the futures exchanges. "The clearing members of the CME [Chicago Mercantile Exchange] think trading this stuff is the stupidest idea in the world. I didn't work my whole life so some investment bank can take all our capital. Do I look like Hank Paulson?"    I sure hope the Obama administration isn't going all Hank Paulson on us.
