The intro commentary to today's post at The Automatic Earth is an important one that I invite you all to read, about the prospects of Obama's new Treasury Secretary, Tim Geithner, in handling the continuing hemorrhaging of US banks.Quoth, edited:Credit risk in derivatives differs from credit risk in loans due to the more uncertain nature of the potential credit exposure... banks do not know, and can only estimate, how much the value of the derivative contract might be at various points of time in the future.[The combined notional (nominal) amount of derivatives held by the top three US holding companies, JP Morgan, Bank of America and Citibank in Sept. 2008 was $138 trillion.] The total assets of these three banks are $3.9 trillion, which is a somewhat questionable number, since we don't know what the assets - which they largely valued themselves - are. But it's still, as Martin Weiss pointed out, 43 times the amount the banks have thus far received in government assistance. However, even more significant is that JPMorgan's derivatives amount to 400 times its alleged assets. Talk about leverage.Obama's stimulus plan is not for banks. The next bank bail-out will follow soon. My guess is that it will add up to $2 trillion in public, and $4-5 trillion in reality. When looking at the numbers above, though, as well as the reservations by the real number crunchers, it becomes ever clearer that the risks are huge that any subsequent bank bail-out will go the same way as the multi-trillion dollar ones that have preceded it. Tim Geithner, in his hearing, has made it very clear that he has no intention of coming clean. And while there are lingering questions about the percentage about the potential losses from derivative positions, we know it'll be between 0% and 100%. Even if, just for the 3 biggest US banks, it would be 1%, that would be a $1.78 trillion loss. However, the more volatile the market becomes, and the more money is lost by these institutions across the board of their activities, the higher the derivative risks and losses will also be. There is in that situation no reason to discount the possibility that 10% or 20% will be lost. At 20%, we'd be looking at 3 times annual US GDP. And then we would have a big smelly whopper of a problem. Here's where I come in. What about Canada? Canadian banks are "the soundest in the world", we hear just about every day. I'm not going to dispute this relativistic claim, because frankly I think it's totally irrelevant. Canadian banks can be relatively less greedy than other western institutions and still at way too much risk at present time to make anyone comfortable. And they are at such risk.From the google cache of a March 2006 article - and keep in mind that derivatives trade climbed exponentially until 2008, meaning the early 2006 numbers are just a small preview of where we are now:"In Canada, the six leading banks hold a notional value of $8.24 trillion, Royal Bank of Canada leading the pack with a $2.5-trillion derivatives book."Lets put these numbers in perspective. the US gross domestic product (GDP) stood at US$12 trillion at the end of 2004, 7.3 times smaller than US bank derivatives notional values, 20 times smaller than world totals. In the US, J.P. Morgans derivatives book represents four times GDP; in Canada, Royal Banks represents 2.5 times a GDP of $1.02 billion. [sic - trillion]"In Canada, Royal Banks $2.5-trillion derivatives book is bigger than total capitalization of the TSX [Toronto Stock Exchange] ($1.58 trillion) and total notional value of all contracts traded on the Montreal Exchange ($462 billion)."
