Yesterdays opinion column by Thomas Friedman speaks of a lingering cancer that has invaded the financial books of many of our largest banks. These banks, many who have recently received large amounts of TARP money, have been content to sit on the money and not make it available for new loans. These banks have acted like they have gotten religion and now say they will not lower their credit standards to make loans. Friedman speculates that the banks are holding a lot of assets that may soon be valued well below their book value and will require further massive bank write downs. You can therefore imagine the first round of bank bailouts as simply crutches that are temporarily keeping banks technically solvent. Friedman argues that these assets must be valued properly and write downs should be taken immediately. He predicts that then the banks must be recapitalized (preferably with private capital), and then life can go on. There is an important aspect of this recommendation that has not been stressed. Recapitalization must be accompanied with a vastly revised remuneration scheme for banking officials. I do not worry about tellers and even commercial loan officers. I worry about senior executives and any who receive more than 50% of the annual pay through bonus treatment. The current mess is proof that money corrupts and a lot of money corrupts a lot. It is pretty unclear how one sets precisely an adequate remuneration package given the size of different banks and their individual profitability. One might ask how much harder the work of Citibank or Wachovias CEOs might be than that of a University president or a Fortune 500 company head?  I guess I would start with a million dollars for salary and the potential of one million more in bonus. I would also pool any stock or option awards into a rolling 5 year pool where the executive can not touch the award for 5 years and in the 5th year, the Board can reaffirm that the year 1 award was justified based upon the banks past 5 year performance.  Regardless of the exact new remuneration package, the days of $ 10, 20, 30, and even 60 million remuneration years must be over for public companies.             
