Citigroup, Morgan Stanley discuss brokerage combo - Yahoo! News According to this, Morgan Stanley wants to be a regular bank, but it remains interested in brokerage. Citibank is bleeding cash, so they sold Morgan part of Smith Barney.  A combination of the brokerage units would help Citigroup get more much-needed cash and cut costs, said Aite Group analyst Alois Pirker. The benefit for Morgan Stanley, Pirker said, would be a bigger staff to compete with other growing brokerages  particularly Merrill Lynch, which recently was acquired by Bank of America Corp. &amp;quot;The ultimate goal could be to merge the two entities fully,&amp;quot; Pirker said. &amp;quot;Morgan Stanley needs deposits, there's no doubt about that. They won't get that by telling brokers to get deposits from their clients.&amp;quot; Some believe it might lead to a merger deal. I dont think so. The market is pretty bad right now, very reactionary and people are losing lots of money every day. As the article says, Morgan is the one of the last men standing in Wall St:  Morgan Stanley is one of the few remaining Wall Street firms after the credit crisis last year sent Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy and Merrill to Bank of America.  Theres a good chance that they are simply looking at either becoming the biggest tiger on the block and scrapping the deposit bank idea, or they could merge with Citibank; truncate it, and simply use it like a GMAC subsidiary. If they become a deposit bank, theyll have to make long term loans and I dont think they want to do that  Citigroup was hit particularly hard by the housing market downturn because the bank was heavily invested in mortgages and other loans. The company has reported four straight quarters of losses, and is expected to post yet another loss when it releases fourth-quarter results later this month. The people who bough the mortgage securities also took a hit. Some people actually feel that Citibank is going back to beingjust a bank in a city  If Morgan Stanley ends up buying Smith Barney, it &amp;quot;sounds like the beginning of a liquidation,&amp;quot; said Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics. Might as well. After a certain level of investment, by which I mean investing enough to build every project yourself, its probably wiser to change the strategy. The mortgage crisis means one thingthey oversaturated their balance sheet with debt receivables that carry the risk of becoming your accounts payables when the borrower defaults. Therefore, the balance sheets were saturated with a far higher risk than a department store would have of carrying worthless inventory. I never got used to seeing regular banks as Wall St champs. I guess things are going back to normal. According to this article, the Treasury injected $45 billion into Citibank:  Citigroup has received $45 billion in support from the government's $700 billion financial rescue fund, an amount that is almost double what has been provided to any other major bank. In other words, other banks only need the money as insurance to pay off whatever trouble they got into without having to clean out their shareholders completely. Citibank apparently has a lot of trouble and the time to point fingers has expired. What is really awful about this is that businesses need healthy banks, i.e banks that can loan them money at decent rates and without so much of a fuzz. Loans come with set payments and arent usually called. The capital loaned out trickles back to the bank. Most of these banks will need a least a year to stock up on reserves. Yahoo Tags:  citigroup's ceo vikram pandit,merrill lynch,citigroup
