 By J. P. Anderson The Tories will outline a plan to combat what they call Britain's &amp;quot;walk-on-by society&amp;quot; today. At the Conservative Party's conference in Birmingham, shadow home secretary Dominic Grieve will accuse the Government of encouraging the public to avoid intervening to prevent crime. In recent years, some have-a-go heroes have faced charges - leading to the suggestion that people now walk on by - because they are afraid they will be arrested for getting involved. A TORY government, he will say, would encourage more citizens' arrests by amending guidance to lawyers so that if a person acts &amp;quot;in good faith&amp;quot; to stop a crime they are less likely to be prosecuted. Another announcement tackles what the shadow home secretary calls the health and safety culture in the police - driven by government &amp;quot;regulatory zeal&amp;quot;. One example he uses is the decision of Kent Police officers not to break up an illegal rave in May - because it was dark. Mr Grieve says the Tories would amend the Police Reform Act so that &amp;quot;the risk to the public is prioritised above the risk to individual officers&amp;quot;. BUT: Detectives are hunting for the killer of a top banking executive who died from head wounds after trying to break up a street fight. Frank McGarahan, 45, who worked for Barclays Wealth, intervened in a brawl in Norwich city centre at 3am on Sunday. Norfolk Police said Mr McGarahan, of Hertfordshire, had enjoyed a &amp;quot;quiet evening out&amp;quot; before the attack as he visited the city to attend a family christening. He died on Monday in Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, from his injuries. &amp;quot;The investigation into the incident continues and officers are reviewing closed circuit television footage from around the city centre area and following up a number of lines of inquiry,&amp;quot; said a Norfolk Police spokesman. A Barclays spokeswoman confirmed Mr McGarahan was chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, which employs 7,700 staff in 20 countries and manages assets worth 133bn. Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley said: &amp;quot;Norwich City Centre is generally a safe place and there were a number of people in the vicinity of the incident. &amp;quot;We are very keen to hear from anyone who may have seen something or has any information.&amp;quot; :: Anyone with information about Mr McGarahan's murder is asked to contact the major investigation team at Norfolk Constabulary on 0845 4564567 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.
