I love AIO. I have listened to it since it began. I listened to Family Portraits in 1987 when I was 9. I have heard 95 % of the episodes. I love it soo much. Good truths and lessons and episodes. Good Christian Show.Whit is awesome. Hal Smith was awesome. We were sad when he died and Whit left. We were happy when Paul Herlinger assumed the role.&amp;nbsp; We were sad when Karen died. I cried. Sage Bolte was great in that show, as well as later Robyn.Jimmy Barclay was the boy/man.&amp;nbsp; Jave Griffin was a great actor on that role. I loved the Barclays.&amp;nbsp; They moved to Pokenberry Falls in 1996 when George moved there to pastor a church. The family did not wanna move at 1st, but felt God was calling them there. The family had always lived there.In 1995, my family was in Augusta for years. My siblings had always lived there. God called my dad to pastor in Gulf Breeze, FL. He did not wanna move, but we felt it was God's will. So we went.&amp;nbsp; So the Barclays tale really touched me.Dave Arnold, Paul McCusker, Phil Lollar, Marshall Younger, Chuck Bolte, Bob Hoose, Steve Harris, and all did a wonderful job creating, writing, directing, producing and all they did. They acted a lot.&amp;nbsp; Paul was awesome as Glossman, a character he did not want to play and got rid of around 3 times.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Dave Arnold was Jesus in Imagination Station.&amp;nbsp; Chuck was George and so many others. And Phil Lollar was Dale.We all loved Lucy and her goody goody self. Genesis "Genny" Mullen was great. So was her husband Donald as Jack.&amp;nbsp; Aria Curzon as Mandy.&amp;nbsp; Walker Edminston as Tom and Bart. Earl Boen, Katie Leigh, Will Ryan, Alan Young, Lauren Schaffel,&amp;nbsp; Corey Burton, Jess Harnell, the Bolte girls, Azure Janosky, all were good. So many great characters: Tom, Lucy, jack, Oscar, Sam, Whit, Jack Allen, Rodney, Jared, Mandy, Clara, Bart, Eugene, Connie, Trent, Liz, Curt, Dr. Blackgaard, Cryin Bryan Dern, too many to mention.&amp;nbsp; Dave Madden was great as Bernard, and his humor and stories.Odyssey made us sad and emotional when Karen died, and others, Whit left, when Jack told Connie about his Emily&amp;nbsp; We cheered in emotion when Connie and Eugene and others got saved., we laughed at Top This, Hidden in my Heart, and so many funny moments.We hung on to seats in mysteries like Secret Room, Mysterious Stranger, and more. We cheered for good guys against Blackgaard and Novacom. We got scared at some episodes. Like DBD, Castles and Caldrons, and more.&amp;nbsp; We were glad when Jimmy lived in Someone to watch over me.&amp;nbsp; We loved the Barclays, and missed them when they left. We learned in Imagination Station and stories of history and BibleO yea, Townsend Coleman as Jason Whitaker. he was great at times, even in struggles. He was cool.I could go on for hours. Odyssey has touched me. I love it soooo much. It is good Biblical lessons and truths. Thank you Odyssey for so many good years and episodes.&amp;nbsp; It helps me pass time in car trips, walks, and storms, or boredom. God bless you. 
