 (Adds ABN AMRO Australia comment, further Commonwealth Bank comment, background) By Lyndal McFarlandOf DOW JONES NEWSWIRES SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) will retain ownership of its ABN AMRO businesses in Australia and New Zealand, calling off a sales process after Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA.AU) walked away from talks to buy the operations, an ABN AMRO Australia spokeswoman said Wednesday.Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA.AU) Chief Executive Ralph Norris called off talks to buy the operations due to current economic conditions, uncertain world financial markets and risks involved in integrating the businesses.Norris also said that recent bad news from rivals National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) on the outlook for bad debts had hurt the reputation of Australian banks in the international markets, which meant funding was harder to secure. 'The situation changed over the last couple of weeks with the impact of statements that came out of Melbourne with regard to a couple of banks (NAB, ANZ), and their respective positions, which has had some impact internationally on the reputation of Australian banks, and the ability to access international funding markets,' Norris told analysts at a briefing for the group's annual results. 'It wasn't the funding of the purchase price, it was the funding of the liabilities, the assets in the business,' Norris said. 'We came to the view that in the current market it probably wasn't a wise situation for us to (be in).' Goldman Sachs JBWere's Melbourne head of institutional sales, Patrick Crabb, said that Commonwealth Bank's decision illustrates the uncertainty in financial markets, both domestically and internationally.In recent weeks, NAB stunned the market with news it would take an A$830 million charge in its second half to Sep. 30 results for its exposure to complex instruments backed by U.S. home mortgages.ANZ Bank warned it would also increase its provision levels for bad and doubtful debts, with full year profit expected to drop as much as 25% on year.NAB also called off talks to buy ABN AMRO's Australia and New Zealand operations last month, without giving a reason. The bank failed to agree to a deal to buy Citigroup Inc.'s Australian retail stockbroking and wealth management businesses earlier this year.The Australia and New Zealand arms of ABN AMRO came into RBS's hands when it bought ABN AMRO together with Spain's Banco Santander SA and Belgian-Dutch banking group Fortis NV last year.Since then, the businesses have been subject to review for possible sale and RBS hired Australian corporate advisory firm Lazard Carnegie Wylie to look at a range of options. 'Today's announcement provides us with ownership certainty and confidence in the business going forward,' the ABN AMRO Australia spokeswoman told Dow Jones Newswires.Commonwealth Bank said it will now focus on organic growth in its wealth management arm, but Norris said the group as a whole is on the lookout for opportunities to expand its presence in Asia. -By Lyndal McFarland, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-8235-2957; lyndal.mcfarland@ dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=WwUGXuM5wyJmFTKP%2BNcDNQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 08-12-082304ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
