 LIFE insurance company Tower Australia yesterday warned that its 2009 bottom-line would take a hit after losing one of its key clients -- St George Bank.The bank this week appointed AIG Life as its new life insurance partner to cover its Asgard investment platform, as it moves towards completing a $18 billion merger with Westpac. The loss of the Asgard business is expected to slash 8 per cent, or $60 million, off Tower's $700 million 'in-force' business book and lower annualised contribution margins by up to $4 million. But Tower stressed the loss would be mitigated to some extent by related cost cuts in the 2009 financial year. The transition will be over a 12-month period and Tower also highlighted that the potential impact was also expected to be 'significantly lessened as Tower Australia continues to grow its in-force book through winning new group mandates and growing higher margin individual life insurance business'. Tower will take a 'part impact' to its profit in the 2009 year. Management said that while it was disappointed to lose the Asgard business it was not unexpected. 'St George has made the decision to go with a one-partner model for its bank channel and group business and Tower Australia did not have the bank channel expertise,' it said. Investors took the knife to the company, driving down its share price by about 5.6 per cent, or 16c, to $2.70. Deutsche Bank analyst James Coghill told clients that while the loss was not altogether surprising, 'we expected the likely 5 per cent profit impact to be lower, after TAL (Tower) downplayed this at the recent 1H08 result'. 'Despite TAL's defensive qualities, we continue to believe that its high price earnings multiple (13 per cent PE relative premium) does not reflect the risks associated with its exclusive exposure to Life insurance.' Mr Coghill said AIG presumably bid aggressively for the business, which increased 'the risk that AIG is aggressive on other large tenders and impacts group pricing across the market'. 'With St George Bank indicating this will be a phased transition, we believe the earnings impact will not reach full run-rate until 2H09F,' he said. Deutsche Bank estimates the 2009 financial year earnings per share impact will be 3 per cent and 5 per cent in the 2010 year, incorporating the full $4 million hit. 'This is a substantial loss for group business, with in-force premium reducing by 23 per cent,' Mr Coghill wrote. Tower defended its competitive position in the sector, saying it had been investing in building new technology capability and had been successful in retaining and winning new business. 
