 SYDNEY, Aug 22 (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, Australia's third-biggest lender, said a review of its securitieslending business had revealed management weakness and two senior executiveswould leave the bank.     The review was prompted after the collapse of Opes Prime Group, astockbroker which specialised in margin lending, in March due to global creditcrisis. ANZ, which had lent A$616 million ($540 million) to the broker, seizedshares held as security from Opes and sold them to recoup the loan.     ANZ said it did not adequately identify and manage risks arising from itssecurities lending business.     'It's clear the findings have some wider implications for ANZ's managementof other non-traditional businesses, particularly in our institutionaldivision,' ANZ Chief Executive Mike Smith said in a statement.     ANZ named Chris Page as its new Chief Risk Officer replacing David Stephen,while Alex Thursby was appointed acting Group Managing Director Institutionaldivision, replacing Peter Hodgson.     Opes Prime provided equity financing and securities lending services toinstitutional and private clients. Margin lending, where investors borrow moneyto buy stocks, boomed in recent years in line with a global share market bullrun.     But sharp falls in share prices as the global credit crunch took hold haveseverly reduced investor appetite for margin lending.     ANZ said it has taken remedial action plan to address the issues. 'I believethis plan will provide ANZ with a step change in the management of risk,particularly in institutional, and will draw a line in the sand at ANZ aboutperformance and accountability in the the future,' Smith said.     ($1=A$1.14)     (Reporting by Denny Thomas; Editing by James Thornhill).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content,including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the priorwritten consent of Thomson Financial News.
