 The corporate watchdog has called on the Australian Securities Exchange to make improvements to its market supervisory performance after it found gaps in the ASX's ability to keep up with the recent turmoil in financial markets. However, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) said that overall the ASX's market oversight record between July 1 2006 and March 30 2008 was adequate. The approval seems to set the stage for ASX to retain its market supervision role, despite some market participants criticising the company's ability to supervise the market while remaining a listed entity. 'While there are matters for improvement, ASICs view is that nevertheless, ASX had adequate arrangements in place for the review period and with these Agreed Actions should continue to have adequate arrangements,' ASIC said in its annual market assessment report. Minister for Superannuation and Corporate Law Nick Sherry he was pleased that ASIC and the ASX had developed and agreed to the improvements together. I note that for the first time ASICs recommendations to ASX are presented as Agreed Actions. This shows a concerted effort by both ASIC and ASX to quicken their response times to emerging issues in financial markets, and I welcome this, Mr Sherry said. Financial markets have experienced a significant turnaround this year and regulators have done a solid job in difficult times. 'A well funded and transparent approach to market supervision is a critical component of a well-ordered market,' he added. ASIC said it would work together with the ASX to establish new benchmarks for market supervision and help the ASX upgrade its technology and staffing procedures. The recommendations also include additional certification of supervisory funding, ASIC said. Additionally, the corporate watchdog advised that the ASX should take extra measures to ensure that its arrangements to supervise the markets in relation to conflicts of interest would remain adequate in the future. As part of an agreement with the ASIC, the ASX will also improve its settlement process and the error resolution at the Sydney Futures Exchange. The inadequacies in ASX's settlement process was thrust into the spotlight earlier this year when Tricom's settlement of $84 million worth of share trades was delayed after an unprecedented number of margin calls. It has been a tumultuous year on global markets, with the local share market falling over 20 per cent since November last year. One of the most prominent victims of the worldwide rush from equities was margin lender Opes Prime Stockbroking, which collapsed in March owing investors nearly $1 billion. The ASX came under fire for its supervision of Opes Prime's stock lending practices after the broker's secured creditors Australia and New Zealand Banking Group and Merrill Lynch seized shares held by Opes investors. 
