 Heading into the end of what has been an eventful week, 's still fresh chief executive Cameron Clyne was yesterday appointed to the top job at parent . Forty-year-old Clyne has only been with NAB for about four years and with BNZ since the start of last year.His appointment to replace Scotsman John Stewart comes shortly after NAB fessed up to a A$830 million ($1.07 billion) more in sub-prime related write-downs.NAB is denying that the write-down and Stewart's departure are linked.Clyne takes over at NAB with Australia's banking sector going through what looks like its rockiest patch since the early nineties.NAB shares closed yesterday down 44c at A$25.02c.Just a few days before NAB's announcement,  disclosed A$1.2 billion in charges for bad debts including a trebling in bad debt charges in New Zealand.Shortly after it became apparent that the sub-prime problem was something more than a speedbump, and banks in the US and Europe started fessing up to big losses, Stock Takes began asking around our big Aussie-owned banks whether they had exposure.The responses from BNZ and NAB were revealing, if only to show how unrevealing our big banks tend to be.NAB's initial answer to the question was 'we have no exposure'. Then it came out that NAB, ANZ, Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Westpac were all part of a worldwide syndicate of banks that advanced US$11.5 billion ($15.7 billion) to embattled US lender Countrywide last year.The response from NAB then was 'we have no direct exposure'. Turns out NAB's writedown last week was on its sizeable chunk of collateralised debt obligations, the US mortgage-backed securities at the very heart of the sub-prime debacle.Even this week, a BNZ spokeswoman was attempting to argue these securities didn't necessarily constitute 'direct exposure' to sub-prime. Yeah, right. SAFE? PROBABLY It will come as no surprise to many readers that we in the media sometimes play up the drama of a situation in order to attract the audience's attention.But when it comes to the banking and finance sector, we have a duty to behave in a particularly responsible manner, because these industries rely on the confidence of investors and customers.Given what has taken in place in the US where a number of banks have now failed, many of our readers are clearly nervous about the safety of their savings. The consensus of commentators interviewed for a Business Herald story a few months ago which asked the question 'are our banks safe?' was, 'yes, pretty safe'. Still the piece generated a number of responses from readers concerned we were portending the collapse of one or more of the big Australian banks.
