 (Adds further management, analyst comments) By Lyndal McFarland Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA.AU) said Wednesday annual net profit growth slowed to 7% as it increased charges for bad and doubtful debts, and it is cautious on the outlook for the new financial year amid a global economic slowdown.Reflecting the uncertain outlook, Commonwealth Bank also ended talks to buy ABN AMRO's Australian and New Zealand operations from Royal Bank of Scotland ( RBS.LN).Commonwealth Bank - the nation's biggest bank by market capitalization - said net profit for the year ended June 30 rose to A$4.79 billion from A$4.47 billion the prior year. Second half profit was A$2.4 billion, up 2% from the first half. 'We are cautious going into the new financial year and the group will continue with its conservative stance until signs of improvements in economic conditions are evident,' Chief Executive Ralph Norris said in a statement. 'While the domestic economy remains reasonably resilient, credit growth is expected to moderate as this slowing in the economy impacts our customers.' 'While these broad trends are clearly evident, the duration and extent of the slowdown is more difficult to predict,' Norris said. Despite no systemic problems in its loan portfolios, the group more than doubled provisions for impaired loans to A$930 million from A$434 million, reflecting softening economic conditions and increased charges for exposure to problem corporate loans, with headwinds experienced in the sector during the year likely to persist for some time.Its total impairment charge for individual loans, including those to corporates, was increased to A$596 million for the year from A$434 million a year ago, but it has no new exposure to troubled single name corporates.The bank also introduced a collective provision totaling A$334 million, including a A$212 million economic overlay. 'Volatility in global markets and a slowing in economic activity placed upward pressure on funding costs and caused an increase in loan impairment expenses,' the bank said. While earnings growth slowed, investors said the group's announcement lacked any of the shocks announced by rivals National Australia Bank Ltd. and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in recent weeks.Commonwealth Bank shares closed down 46 cents, or 1%, at A$44.05, outperforming its peers and the broader market. The S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index closed down 2%. 'CBA's statement that they see themselves as 'well provisioned for uncertain times' suggests to us that a sizable preemptive restocking of provisions is unlikely,' Credit Suisse analysts said in a note.Cash profit - a smoothed measure closely watched by analysts - rose 5% to A$ 4.73 billion from A$4.53 billion a year ago. A survey of seven analysts by Dow Jones Newswires found forecasts centered on a cash profit of A$4.72 billion.Commonwealth Bank, which is Australia's only major bank with a June 30 fiscal year end, declared a final dividend of A$1.53 a share, up from A$1.49 a year ago.The group's retail banking division saw a 8% rise in cash earnings for the year, while its wealth management arm recorded an 18% improvement, despite difficult market conditions.Commonwealth Bank said it has no direct exposure to U.S. subprime mortgage lending or any material exposure to collateralized debt obligations.Loan impairments as a percentage of average gross loans stood at 0.26% for the year, which it said is at the lower end of its peers, but was above the 0.23% it said it was targeting.Commonwealth Bank's result comes weeks after rival NAB shocked the market with plans for a A$830 million provision for its exposure to the U.S. mortgage market, while ANZ said its annual profit could fall as much as 25% on year as it increases provisions for problem corporate loans.Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank also said its capital position is strong, with Tier 1 capital at 8.17%, well above internal targets.Chief Financial Officer David Craig said that while the bank 'would love' to pass on any cuts to Australia's official cash rate in full to customers, there are several considerations the bank needs to take. While short-term funding costs have eased, Craig said longer-term funding costs continue to rise.The bank said it may look at acquisitions if and when they arise, despite pulling out of talks to buy ABN AMRO's Australia and New Zealand operations, including opportunities in Asia. -By Lyndal McFarland, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-8235-2957; lyndal.mcfarland@ dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=0%2FrQL3N4W%2FiSVov66NFA3w%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 08-13-080245ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
