 Credit Suisse analysts lowered AIG's (AIG:AIGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) per-share earnings to a loss of 86 cents for the quarter, compared to a previous forecast for a profit of 13 cents a share. They also lowered AIG's price target to $22 from $30. By mid-morning, AIG shares were down 5.5%, trading at about $18.80. 'While realized investment losses on AIG's insurance investment portfolio may decline [compared to the second quarter of 2008] if AIG continues to hold its exposures, a de-risking strategy may result in losses remaining elevated given the very poor liquidity conditions for securities with residential housing exposures,' the analysts said. Shares of AIG are down 67.75% over the past year and off 30.75% in the past month. AIG has been among the companies hit hardest by the mortgage crisis. Earlier this month, it revealed a second-quarter net loss of more than $5 billion, or $2.06 a share. The announcement spurred an 18% drop in AIG's share price -- the biggest one-day decline in the company's history, according to FactSet Research.  On Friday, Fitch Ratings said it may downgrade ratings of AIG and its subsidiaries because of uncertainties about a business review the company plans to complete in September. A possible downgrade 'also reflects ongoing uncertainty associated with [AIG's] potential for additional realized and unrealized losses on its various residential mortgage-backed securities-related exposures, including its portfolio of credit default swaps and resultant collateral posting and capital needs,' Fitch said. Credit Suisse analysts said action by the ratings agencies would dramatically hurt AIG. 'In the event of a one-notch ratings downgrade from both Moody's and S&amp;amp;P, AIG would be required to post up to $13.3 billion of additional collateral,' they said. NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Shares of American International Group Inc. were trading down more than 5% Monday morning after a report by Credit Suisse cut the insurer's third-quarter outlook. 
