 SYDNEY (Reuters) - Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the countrys No. 2 bank by assets, may offer over A$6 billion (2.8 billion pounds) to HBOS for its Australian unit BankWest, the Australian newspaper reported on Monday.CBA declined to comment on the report. HBOS, Britains biggest mortgage-lender, has appointed Morgan Stanley to advise on future options for the west Australian-based lender, which is worth A$5 billion to A$7 billion, the newspaper said, citing banking sources.But a CBA source told Reuters no formal process was underway. 'If we were doing any deal like that then we would have appointed outside advisers,' a CBA source said. The plan comes after CBA last week withdrew from acquisition discussions with Royal Bank of Scotland to acquire ABN AMRO Australia, the paper said.CBA Chief Executive Ralph Norris said in a television interview on Sunday that his bank would continue to look for acquisition opportunities. 'You always look at acquisitions and its about how compelling the acquisition opportunity is. Certainly, we would look at all opportunities. We have done that in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future,' Norris said. Any Commonwealth bid would face few competition or regulatory .....continued belowstartsends hurdles, the newspaper report said.Last month, HBOS flagged asset sales after its first-half profits halved due to a 1.1 billion pound hit on debt securities. That stoked speculation it would offload BankWest.But it is unlikely to find much interest among the other top Australian banks.National Australia Bank Ltd , Australias top lender, and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd are seen unlikely buyers as they grapple with higher loan losses due to global credit crisis.Westpac Banking Corp , the fourth-biggest lender, is in the process of completing its planned A$16.9 billion acquisition of St George Bank Ltd .(Reporting by Denny Thomas and Miranda Maxwell; Editing by James Thornhill)SYDNEY (Reuters) - Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the countrys No. 2 bank by assets, may offer over A$6 billion (2.8 billion pounds) to HBOS for its Australian unit BankWest, the Australian newspaper reported on Monday.CBA declined to comment on the report. HBOS, Britains biggest mortgage-lender, has appointed Morgan Stanley to advise on future options for the west Australian-based lender, which is worth A$5 billion to A$7 billion, the newspaper said, citing banking sources.But a CBA source told Reuters no formal process was underway. 'If we were doing any deal like that then we would have appointed outside advisers,' a CBA source said. The plan comes after CBA last week withdrew from acquisition discussions with Royal Bank of Scotland to acquire ABN AMRO Australia, the paper said.CBA Chief Executive Ralph Norris said in a television interview on Sunday that his bank would continue to look for acquisition opportunities. 'You always look at acquisitions and its about how compelling the acquisition opportunity is. Certainly, we would look at all opportunities. We have done that in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future,' Norris said. Any Commonwealth bid would face few competition or regulatory hurdles, the newspaper report said.Last month, HBOS flagged asset sales after its first-half profits halved due to a 1.1 billion pound hit on debt securities. That stoked speculation it would offload BankWest.But it is unlikely to find much interest among the other top Australian banks.National Australia Bank Ltd , Australias top lender, and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd are seen unlikely buyers as they grapple with higher loan losses due to global credit crisis.Westpac Banking Corp , the fourth-biggest lender, is in the process of completing its planned A$16.9 billion acquisition of St George Bank Ltd . ($1=A$1.15) (Reporting by Denny Thomas and Miranda Maxwell; Editing by James Thornhill) 'You always look at acquisitions and its about how compelling the acquisition opportunity is. Certainly, we would look at all opportunities. We have done that in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future,' Norris said. Any Commonwealth bid would face few competition or regulatory hurdles, the newspaper report said. Last month, HBOS flagged asset sales after its first-half profits halved due to a 1.1 billion pound hit on debt securities. That stoked speculation it would offload BankWest. But it is unlikely to find much interest among the other top Australian banks. National Australia Bank Ltd , Australias top lender, and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd are seen unlikely buyers as they grapple with higher loan losses due to global credit crisis. Westpac Banking Corp , the fourth-biggest lender, is in the process of completing its planned A$16.9 billion acquisition of St George Bank Ltd . (Reporting by Denny Thomas and Miranda Maxwell; Editing by James Thornhill)
