  By Damian ReeceSomething is missing from the boardroom overhaul that Royal Bank of Scotland confirmed yesterday. Although all three appointments are considered strong hires, there is no obviously outstanding candidate to replace either chairman Sir Tom McKillop or senior independent director Bob Scott.Stephen Hester, the boss of British Land and a former banker, will expect to be in the running for the chairmanship but RBS shareholders will need some convincing.RBS has made a start, but shareholders will expect the search for more experienced recruits to continue and the clock is ticking.As Guy Jubb, Standard Life's head of corporate governance, said yesterday - and note the tense: 'These changes are very welcome and demonstrate that the RBS board is getting to grips with its governance.' In other words, a good start but the work's not over.Few shareholders expect Sir Tom to last long as chairman (I give him one year at most). I've argued since April's rights issue that the reconstruction of the RBS board should have been top down, starting with a new chairman who could then proceed with a thorough job of appointing new non-executives and leading the search for a long term replacement for Sir Fred Goodwin, chief executive. That new chairman would then be around to live with the consequences of his appointments. For Sir Tom to shake up the board but then disappear soon after himself is not in the best interests of shareholders.Several shareholders want Sir Tom's successor to be a heavyweight City figure who has strong banking experience and is picked from outside the Scottish financial mafia which RBS has relied on for too long. One idea gaining traction is that the individual should be eased into the role by taking over from Scott as senior independent director.Scott, the former chief executive of insurer CGNU - now Aviva - is looking increasingly non-independent, having been a director since January 2001.Sir Tom is widely seen as having failed to grasp the severity of RBS's crisis, glossing over concerns about capital in investor meetings earlier this year before embarrassingly having to launch a record 12bn rights issue to rebuild the bank's stretched balance sheet.Stung by implicit criticisms that he has been unable to stand up to Sir Fred, he has previously said that 'there are no patsies on this board', although I'm afraid that's highly debatable, especially after yesterday's actions.That said, the appointments are better than nothing. Hester, who was at both Credit Suisse and Abbey before British Land, is seen as a robust character who will stand up to RBS's strongest personalities - Sir Fred in particular. John McFarlane, former chief executive of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, adds much-needed Asian experience and is highly regarded. Arthur Ryan, former chairman of Prudential Financial, will bring a fresh perspective to the US business, where Larry Fish is being eased aside after 15 years.None, though, are replacements for Sir Tom or even Scott. In the short term, Sir Fred is safe as chief executive because he's the one able to ensure the successful integration of Dutch bank ABN Amro which RBS bought last year. But investors want a successor identified to ensure shareholders' interests are not marginalised. Yesterday's initial moves to bolster the board will have only whetted their appetites.If Sir Tom and Sir Fred pass off yesterday's hires as a sufficient reinforcement of the board and proof that they have changed, shareholders will rightly give them short shrift. Having started the process it must be pursued to its logical conclusion and the next step has to be the appointment of at least one more chairman candidate to provide some competition for that crucial post.TNS's Lowden left sweating as white knight disappearsSir Martin Sorrell took a sure stride towards his goal of buying market research group TNS yesterday. Ever since his rival, German group GfK, issued a remarkably flabby statement back in July that it had identified a 'potential source' of financing for a bid, it has been clear that Sir Martin was the one in the driving seat. Back then I said GfK's statement was hard to take seriously at a time when credit was being strictly rationed, particularly for leveraged private equity deals, which GfK's would have become.The Germans, having kept the market in suspense all summer, have finally succumbed to the inevitable. TNS management, in the meantime, having been vehemently against Sir Martin's bid, now look all over the place. David Lowden, chief executive, has seen his original nil-premium merger proposal with GfK collapse after the market exposed all the usual weaknesses of such arrangements. Now his hopes of a full scale white knight bid from GfK have also disappeared.His next big mistake will be to allow the TNS share price to collapse back to 150p as he continues to reject the one certainty in his life - a 268p-a-share offer from Sir Martin's WPP. Sir Martin himself can let Lowden sweat. What Lowden needs to do is persuade WPP to sweeten its offer, in return for a recommendation, so he can accept and exit elegantly.damian.reece@telegraph.co.uk
