  Sir Tom McKillop, the embattled chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland, may have just hired his own executioner.Several shareholders are baying for blood at RBS after its record 12bn emergency rights issue earlier this year and, though the finger of blame is being wagged in the direction of chief executive Sir Fred Goodwin, the axe is increasingly expected to fall on the chairman.Investors believe Sir Tom became a condemned man after assuring them that the bank's capital position was robust just months before April's humiliating U-turn.Credibility is a chairman's most vital currency and, in the wake of RBS's rights issue, Sir Tom's fell faster than a guillotine blade.None of yesterday's three new non-executive appointments will want to be Sir Tom's executioner but the role may be forced upon them. 'We will have to find out who is the 'spokesman' for the three,' one shareholder said. 'Then we can discuss how to take forward the issue of succession. Shareholders would be nervous if Sir Tom was looking for his own replacement.' Sir Tom, who is up for re-election next year, will not go down without a fight.Stung by criticism that he has failed to stand up to the autocratic Sir Fred (which led to his astonishing recent outburst that 'there are no patsies on this board'), he took up residence at the bank's London headquarters over the summer and worked day and night to secure high-calibre non-executives to boost the independence of the board. Shareholders have been impressed with the results.Stephen Hester, chief executive of British Land and a former banker at both Credit Suisse and Abbey, is seen as a robust character who will stand up to RBS's strongest personalities - Sir Fred in particular.John McFarlane, former chief executive of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, adds much-needed Asian experience and comes very highly regarded.Arthur Ryan, former chairman of Prudential Financial in America, will bring a fresh perspective to the US business, where Larry Fish is being eased aside after 15 years.Guy Jubb, Standard Life's head of corporate governance, caught the general mood by saying: 'These changes are very welcome and demonstrate that the RBS board is getting to grips with its governance.' Note Mr Jubb's use of the present continuous tense, though. In other words, it's a good start but the work's not over. Although high quality, none of the three recruits are thought suitable for the role of chairman. Sir Tom is aware there is more to do.Bob Scott, former chief executive of insurer Aviva, plans to step down as senior independent director (SID) next year having been on the board since 2001.Influential investors want his replacement to be a candidate strong enough to be considered for chairman. Alternatively, they suggested that Mr McFarlane might take over as the SID and spearhead the hunt for Sir Tom's successor.Despite the recruitment success in very difficult conditions, shareholders are not in forgiving mood. They say Sir Tom should have addressed the issue of governance years ago, as he promised them he would after becoming chairman in September 2005. Instead, they claim lines of communication with the board have been cut and meetings are rarely with anyone other than Sir Tom, Sir Fred, Mr Scott and the finance director, Guy Whittaker.The hope is that the new trio of non-executives will improve the dialogue. 'These non-executives need to introduce us to the larger management team like in the old days,' one shareholder said.Meetings are already being planned with Mr Hester, whose established City presence may qualify him for the 'spokesman', or representative role shareholders are after. Few doubt that at least one more very senior non-executive appointment will be made in the coming months.Independence of the board has become such a vital issue because shareholders want a counterbalance to the dominant Sir Fred, whose mercurial talents polarise opinion more than anyone in the industry.Investors blame him for the bank's woes by running capital ratios that were simply too tight and by overpaying for ABN (the parts of which RBS acquired cost 10bn). But shareholders threw their lot in with him by overwhelmingly voting in favour of the ABN deal at the end of last year. 'If we wanted to get rid of him, that was our moment,' one said. 'Now we've made our bed, we have to sleep in it.' Sir Fred can still restore his battered reputation but, even if he does, investors want a new broom within two years. As one put it: 'If he can demonstrate his deal execution prowess again, he can leave with his head held high through the front door - not scurry out the back.' The early signs are positive. RBS has already increased its forecast annual synergies from the ABN deal by a third to 1.65bn and, even on the revised targets, the plan is ahead of schedule.In the meantime, though, shareholders are demanding the board make him more accountable.In essence, what they are after is nothing less than a cultural revolution at RBS - a shift of power away from Sir Fred, transparent succession planning and greater accountability to investors that will make it impossible for an ambitious chief executive to ride roughshod over shareholder interests - as many claim has been the case for the past few years.For Sir Tom to restore his credibility, he needs to deliver nothing less than improved independence. Compared with Sir Fred's more measurable integration targets, it's a hard task. Insiders say Sir Tom has learned his lessons and has already clipped Sir Fred's wings but proving it will be difficult.Even more supportive shareholders would not be surprised if next year's annual meeting is Sir Tom's last, or if he were to leave earlier. 'Is Sir Tom a decent human being?' one observed. 'Yes. Is he fun to have at the dinner table? Yes. But that's not the point.'
