 By business editor Peter Ryan The ANZ Bank has sacked eight of its employees, including two top executives, after a review of its involvement in the billion dollar collapse of boutique stockbroker Opes Prime. The ANZ's internal review of the Melbourne firm recommended that in addition to the sackings, some employees take pay cuts and be disciplined for breaching the bank's code of conduct.Chief executive Mike Smith said the bank should never have been involved with Opes Prime, for which the ANZ was the chief secured creditor.Its collapse saw 1,200 of the stockbroker's clients lose their money when the ANZ called in $650 million in loans at the height of the credit crisis.Mr Smith promised the 'warts and all' review of the bank's involvement in the securities lending business four months ago, after the Opes Prime collapse.Releasing the findings today, Mr Smith underscored the depth of the damage to the ANZ's reputation. 'No chief executive likes to be in the position that I find myself today. It is not ANZ's finest hour,' Mr Smith said. The review found a range of control and management issues, in particular the risks arising from the stock lending in a falling market.Mr Smith pointed to some key failings that defy the fundamentals banks are supposed to manage for their clients and shareholders. 'The bottom line is we were in a business that we should never have entered into in the first place and it was in a business environment where the risks weren't properly understood and weren't properly managed,' he said. 'At the most basic level, staff in the business didn't understand the reputational risks and the differences between managing a securities lending business and an equity finance business. 'We then compounded the problems by not having the usual risk controls and governance procedures in place.' Mr Smith says that when the stock lending risks were uncovered, senior managers were too slow to act.Put simply, he says some very senior bankers failed to join the dots. 'The Review Committee found that because of these failings, these issues were never given the proper attention and oversight and in particular were not escalated to the CEO, to the board committees or to the board in the way that they should have been,' Mr Smith said. 'So this is what we found and it is clearly unacceptable.' Mr Smith says while the Opes Prime collapse was not of ANZ's doing, it exposed serious cultural and ethical problems within the bank.As a result, the axe has fallen on some big names, including the ANZ's institutional chief Peter Hodgson. 'A number of employees have had formal notes placed on employment records and cuts to their remuneration. Eight managers and executives will leave ANZ. This includes two members of the management board - Peter Hodgson and David Stephen,' Mr Smith said. 'More would have been affected if they still had been at ANZ.' Mr Smith has been in the ANZ top job for less than a year, having unknowingly inherited the Opes Prime debacle from his predecessor John McFarlane, who was interviewed as part of the review.Mr Smith cleared Mr McFarlane of any blame for the current crisis.Mr Smith said he would have preferred to have known about the situation when he was considering taking the job. 'Right. You know, I made my bed and I have to lie in it. I can't say that I am enjoying myself every day but you know, I still think we have got huge potential with this business,' Mr Smith said. The ANZ review has been provided to the banking regulator APRA and the corporate watchdog ASIC.While it is being absorbed, the ANZ will continue to defend itself in a range of investor legal battles in relation to the Opes Prime collapse.
