I love Obama and so does Singapore.  First the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC) went along with the US government and converted its Citibank preferred stock to common stock suffering a paper loss of more than a billion dollars according to its own calculation.  And now Singapore has promised to relax its strict bank secrecy laws which had turned it into the Switzerland for Asias wealthy. So the International Herald Tribune claimed back in 2007 when it said:  Concerns have emerged, however, that Singapore may also be attracting wealthy individuals who have something to hide.  The Wall Street Journal reported in 2006:   In 2001, Singapore stiffened laws against breaching the confidentiality of bank customers, making penalties for violators even tougher than in Switzerland.  But the Singapore government denied suggestions that the country is a tax haven, recalled Reuters in December last year when Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said Singapore might face US pressure over its role as a financial centre for rich foreigners. Singapores earlier refusal to soften its strict bank secrecy laws proved a sticking point in talks for an Asean-European trade agreement, reported Reuters quoting a European politician in October 2007.  But Singapores finance ministry said yesterday it would amend its bank secrecy laws in the middle of this year.  The move came as the US administration endorsed a bill targeting tax havens, reports the Financial Times.  Singapore and Hong Kong are among 34 secrecy jurisdictions listed in the bill. Hong Kong has also pledged to become more transparent.  Obama took the initiative on this issue as one of the three senators who introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act in 2007.     The US means business. Thats clear from its legal battle against the Swiss banking giant UBS (in which also GIC has a stake) to catch tax cheats who have secret accounts in the bank, says the International Herald Tribune. Lee Kuan Yew recently told bankers Singapore could not escape the pressure being applied to Switzerland. "We must move with the flow," he said, recalls the Financial Times. Singapore's finance ministry said yesterday: "Once the legislative amendments are passed in parliament, Singapore is prepared to negotiate and conclude double taxation agreements that will enable us to provide further assistance for exchange of information."  It added: "The decision is in keeping with Singapore's role as a trusted centre for finance and a responsible jurisdiction, with strong and consistent regulatory policies and a firm commitment to the rule of law."  The promised changes will allow foreign tax authorities to request information about suspected tax evaders  and will applauded by other offshore centres that have lost business to Singapore, says the Financial Times. Under the OECD Model Tax Convention as of 2003, an individual shall be a) deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests); b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual abode; c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State of which he is a national; d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.         
