International news of March 3, 2009 - US, International donors ...CaymanMama.com (press release), TX... also registered a sharp fall over the fears that financial sector still in deep trouble. BBC reports states, Confidence was hit by a fresh $30bn bail-out of US insurance giant AIG following a record $62bn loss, and by HSBCs plans to raise 12.5bn. in Insurance News &gt;The man who saved Owen Hargreaves' careerCNN International... which involves making a small hole in a patient's bone to draw out marrow blood, allowing the patient's own stem cells and growth factors to make new cartilage. Each month CNN's Dr.  Sanjay Gupta brings viewers health stories from around the world. in Insurance News &gt;Man face charges over broken tooth fraudABC7Chicago.com,  USAProsecutors say he then filed 21 false injury claims against other restaurants, using information from the legitimate incident. He is scheduled to be arraigned Tuesday on charges of insurance fraud, larceny and attempted larceny. in Insurance News &gt;Oh really? That wasn't bailout cash?KIMA CBS 29, WAThat's what North Carolina-based BB&amp;T Corp. meant when it said it didn't use bailout money to buy a Florida insurance company. It would have made the deal regardless. Wells Fargo, Northern Trust and BB&amp;T are considered among the nation's healthier ... in Insurance News &gt;Desperate People Do Desperate Things, According to BackTrack, Inc.IT Business Net, CACompanies looking to hire in today's volatile market need to protect themselves from fraud by insisting on background checks for all potential new hires. Skimping on the background checks can have disastrous results but statistics show many companies ... in Insurance News &gt;Man face charges over broken tooth fraudABC7Chicago.com,  USAMarch 3, 2009 (BOSTON) -- A Massachusetts man is accused of filing 21 fake injury claims for the same broken tooth, pocketing at least $36000 in insurance payments. Attorney General Martha Coakley's office says the man injured a tooth at a restaurant ... in Insurance News &gt;RANGERS v INVERNESS CTComeOnBoro.com, UKThe Portuguese midfielder missed Saturday's 1-0 SPL win over  Hamilton with a thigh injury, sparking fears he could be a doubt for the Co-operative Insurance Cup final against Celtic on March 15. A scan has revealed some minor tissue damage but there is ... in Insurance News &gt;
