THERE have been calls to the government  to  introduce ways to involve the people in taking some social responsibility in helping to pay for public healthcare.  Apparently, each year, healthcare costs have been  escalating due to the rising cost of equipment, treatment, medication, wages for staff  and other healthcare services.  Some are of the  view that the country&#8217;s resources are limited and alternative  methods of financing the national healthcare costs should be worked out soon. One of the proposals put forward is the introduction of a national health insurance policy.  I  support any policy change in the healthcare services as long as it can bring good to the public and the nation as a whole.  Taiwan introduced a national healthcare insurance  policy  covering  practically all citizens many years ago.  After Taiwan&#8217;s introduction of a national health insurance, life expectancy increased in health-class groups that had higher mortality rates before the introduction of national health insurance.  Apparently, health disparities  narrowed, reversing an earlier trend towards widening disparity. The major contributors to the reduction in disparity were relatively larger reductions in death from cardiovascular diseases, ill-defined conditions, infectious diseases and accidents in the lower-ranked health-class groups.   However, a  similar healthcare insurance policy  introduced in Massachusetts, USA, three  years ago to cover  its population has been severely criticised and given the thumbs-down by hundreds of physicians.  According to them,   the healthcare insurance policy had done more damage to the public than good. They highlighted the  serious shortcomings of that healthcare insurance policy.  Some 500 physicians signed  a letter last month requesting the US  Senate not to extend the health policy nationwide, concluding  that having a health insurance is not the same as having healthcare.    In view of the controversies and contrasting  views surrounding the issue of a national health insurance policy,  I appeal to the authorities concerned to undertake an in-depth study of the pros and cons  of such a  policy.  Ideally, all stakeholders should be given ample opportunity to debate  the matter so  we can formulate a national health insurance policy  that is unique to Malaysia, where access to quality and speedy medical care is affordable to all Malaysians, irrespective of social status.   At the end of the day, it should be a win-win solution for all parties concerned.  S. PARAM, Ipoh Source: NST &ndash; March 24, 2009
