 National Photo Company Collection Fossil Fuel 1920Washington, D.C., Penn Oil and truck. A relic of the Carboniferous Age. Ilargi: Or the rabbit in the hat. The next trick being pulled out is called Ginnie Mae. The show must go on. Maybe they'll just let Fannie and Freddie expire. Like GM, simply pull the plug.I have nothing much today, other than I'm going to sit outside and work on my tan with a book and a beverage. Ain't nobody can call ME Dr. Doom.GM Recovery Swaps Signal 73% Bond Losses on 'Highway to Hell' General Motors Corp.bondholders may lose as much as 73 percent in the event of a default by the world's biggest automaker, based on the price of contracts used to fix a recovery value for the securities.The recovery swap rate on GM dropped to 26.5 percent, from 39.5 percent at the end of June, meaning investors expect to get only 26.5 cents on the dollar in an insolvency, CMA Datavision pricing models show. Investors are pricing in a lower recovery rate than the average of 40 percent in bankruptcies as capital is eroded by $69.8 billion of losses since 2004."GM is on the highway to hell, there is no signal there is a way out for them," said Jochen Felsenheimer, the Munich-based head of credit strategy at UniCredit SpA, Italy's biggest bank. "Recovery on GM might be significantly below 40 percent."GM's $29 billion of debt was downgraded by Moody's Investors Service this week to Caa1, a category for borrowers that may be in default or show "elements of danger." The cost to protect the bonds using credit-default swaps indicates an 88 percent risk of the Detroit-based company reneging on its obligations within five years, compared with a 77 percent risk for competitor Ford Motor Co., according to Bloomberg data.Falling U.S. sales and the declining value of truck leases caused GM to report the third biggest quarterly loss in its 100- year history on Aug. 1 at $15.5 billion. The company, which says it must have $11 billion to $14 billion each month to pay its bills, burned through $3.6 billion in the second quarter. Chief Financial Officer Ray Young said this week he's trying to reap more of the $10 billion in projected savings from capital-spending reductions and cutbacks in the salaried payroll for this year instead of in 2009.Holders of recovery swaps agree in the event of a default to exchange a preset fixed rate for the actual amount recovered by bondholders. The investor receiving the fixed amount will benefit if the payment recovered by bondholders is lower than the rate agreed. Banks offer contracts on about 55 companies that are considered to the highest risk of default, including U.S. mortgage insurer Radian Group Inc., bond insurer MBIA Inc. and automaker Ford."Trading of recovery swaps on GM has picked up, especially over last couple of weeks," Felsenheimer said. Ford, the second largest U.S. automaker, shows the same recovery rate at 26.5 percent, down from 37 percent at the end of June, CMA data show. Combined with Chrysler LLC, the probability that one of the three car companies will be unable to fund its business over the next five years is more than 95 percent, Felsenheimer wrote in a note to investors last week.The cost of credit-default swaps on GM soared to $4.3 million upfront and $500,000 a year to protect $10 million of bonds, up from a total of $642,000 a year in May, CMA data show. Credit-default swaps, contracts conceived to protect bondholders against default, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A rise indicates a deterioration in the perception of credit quality; a decline signals the opposite.Credit-default swaps are priced on an assumed 40 percent recovery rate. Sellers of debt protection use recovery swaps as a hedge against recouping less than 40 percent. Recovery rates are likely to fall as the economy weakens, said Matt King, head of quantitative credit strategy at Citigroup."Recoveries tend to be lower in recessions largely because there are more defaults," said King. "With more defaults, there are more companies trying to sell assets to work their way out of difficulty. With so many assets up for sale, the price of those assets tends to be driven down."Economists warn inflation could fall below 1 per cent Inflation could drop to below 1 per cent next year as the slump in oil prices and the weight of the economic downturn drag price rises into negative territory, it has been warned.Tim Congdon, the prominent analyst who set up Lombard Street Research and has advised previous governments, said the Consumer Price Index could come down "very sharply" from its current heights.The prediction comes after the CPI scaled a 12 year record of 4.4 per cent last week and the Bank of England forecast that it would reach 5 per cent. It is given added weight because Congdon predicted a year ago, when inflation was close to the Bank's 2 per cent target and almost every other economist expected it to remain there, that the CPI could rise to 4 per cent or 5 per cent this year.However, Congdon said a number of signals, including a sharp fall in money held by companies, suggested that the increase would be short-lived. "Although there is bad inflation news around, there isn't much [the Bank of England] can do - it is too late," he said. "But if they look ahead to late 2009, the impact of the oil increase on the indices will be replaced by the impact of the oil price coming down. You will get a very low inflation figure in autumn 2009. It isn't inconceivable that it will go beneath 1 per cent."The warning comes as the Bank prepares to publish the minutes of its Monetary Policy Committee meeting held earlier this month. They are expected to show that, despite the dovish tone adopted in the Inflation Report, Tim Besley was joined by one of his colleagues on the committee in voting for higher borrowing costs.However, with markets pricing in a 50 50 chance of a rate cut in November, the likelihood that Besley will secure a majority remains slim. Congdon said: "Although the inflation figures were bad, the next move in interest rates should be down. At the moment the money numbers are very worrying. There is undoubtedly a corporate liquidity squeeze."Many economists, including Congdon, warned the Bank two years ago that it needed to do more to clamp down on potential inflation, basing this advice on the rise in the amount of money in the economy. Most measures of money growth have dipped markedly since the onset of the credit crunch.The Bank drew attention to the more recent fall in broad money in the Inflation Report, pointing out that the amount of cash held by private non-financial corporations was now falling on an annual basis. It said: "The sharp decline in growth rates corroborates the message from the Bank's Credit Conditions Survey and elsewhere that a marked tightening in the supply of money and credit is under way, as financial institutions deleverage. If that were to accelerate, that would pose downside risks to the outlook for nominal spending. "The MPC will continue to monitor developments in money and credit growth closely."Ginnie Mae Setting Historic Pace in August A recent story covering the growth of Lenders One, a nationwide cooperative comprised of independent mortgage bankers, had us thinking about the origination mix reported by the company, which said it originated more than $3 billion during a 30-day period.That mix: 43.5 percent to the FHA, only 5.3 percent jumbo, Alt-A or second mortgage products, and the rest in conforming product. Youd have to have been in the origination business (or known some people who have) to appreciate that statistic  nearly half of originations went to FHA, and by extension to oft-forgotten Ginnie Mae.But a review of month-to-date issuance volume by HousingWire, using data provided courtesy of eMBS, Inc., suggests that Ginnie Mae wont be playing third fiddle to its two better-known siblings for very long. In fact, the explicitly government-backed mortgage operation soundly trumped Freddie Mac in fixed issuance during July, a milestone that few market participants seem to have noticed: $24.9 billion was issued via Ginnie during the month, compared to $20.3 billion at Freddie. It was the first time Ginnies fixed issuance had been above either Freddie or Fannie Mae in recent memory, and certainly the first time in the fours years worth of data reviewed.But August, at least so far, is shaping up to be a historic month that could mark a clear turning point in our nations debate over mortgage financings future: thats because, to-date in August, Ginnie Maes fixed issuance is ahead of both better-known GSEs. According to eMBS data, Ginnie Mae has issued $25.3 billion to date, while Fannie and Freddie have issued $24.0 billion and $16.5 billion, respectively.Imagine a world where the leading GSE isnt named Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; and if youve been in the mortgage business for any meaningful period of time, its an amazing thing to consider. Were talking about an agency whose monthly issuances as recently as late last year were just 25 percent of Freddies volume  and that was in a good month. The speed of the market shift has been just as stunning, as well: in February, for example, Ginnies issuance total was just 17 percent of that recorded by Fannie Mae.My, how the tables have turned, especially as both Fannie and Freddie have run into problems of their own as of late; and expansion of the FHAs role by lawmakers hasnt hurt either. The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 allowed FHA to raise its loan limits from $362,790 to $729,750 in some areas of the country.The increase is one of a few key areas of legislation that has had major impact favoring a revitalization of Ginnie  in the four months since Ginnie Mae rolled out its new jumbo loan product, issuers have securitized $17 million in April, $331 million in May, $1.089 billion i...
