 (NY Times) Before he retired from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  three years ago, Gary Holloway was cleaning up the remnants of the savings and loan crisis two decades earlier.   His nettlesome problems included selling leaky gas stations in Florida and the Thomas Ranch in California, also in need of a petroleum cleanup. What Mr. Holloway and his co-workers were really doing was working themselves out of jobs. The F.D.I.C. closed offices and slashed its staff in the 1990s as the savings and the loan mess wound down after hundreds of failures through the 1980s.  Activity slowed, with just 29 bank failures in the five years ended in 2004. So after 30 years with the agency, Mr. Holloway retired for a laid-back life of fishing and golfing in rural Spicewood, Tex. At the F.D.I.C., what followed was nothing  literally. From 2005 through the end of 2006, not a single bank failed, the longest such stretch since 1993.  But in March of this year, the agency came calling for Mr. Holloway. With the credit and housing crisis in full bloom, the number of troubled banks was again on the rise. A onetime colleague asked if he would return for a year to help sort out the bad loans of banks that the F.D.I.C. was shutting down.  Mr. Holloway, 57, leapt at the chance. Now, he is on the road with a SWAT-like team that swoops in to handle collapses, sort through loans and reassure the public that their deposits are safe. The work is exciting and rewarding, and he says he just might sign on for another year.  The agency, it turns out, is operating more like the rest of America, with a just-in-time work force that grows and contracts based on its needs. The F.D.I.C., which had a staff of 4,600 at the end of 2007, has brought back about 80 people  largely retirees  and may well recruit dozens and even hundreds more people.  The extra people will help the agency, whose day-to-day activities are providing insurance for depositors, collecting premiums and regulating the nations financial institutions, work out the loans at failing banks. The advantages to retirees are several. Not only do they work for a specified length of time, but they also have something that the younger people lack: experience overseeing failed institutions.  Commuting to faraway cities may prove tiresome, but the workers do not have the responsibilities of younger people with growing families either. Getting home is a hassle, Mr. Holloway concedes. The F.D.I.C. staff members on bank workouts are sent home every two weeks, but flying and making connections mean frequent delays. The F.D.I.C. hopes the retirees will share their knowledge with the less experienced. We are trying to cross-train them to existing staff to work on bank failures, so we dont need a huge staff waiting around for the next bank failure, an F.D.I.C. spokesman, David Barr, said. Even if the agencys work force continues to swell, the figure will probably be dwarfed by the nearly 23,000  many of them part time  who were working at the F.D.I.C. at the height of the savings and loan crisis.  Few expect the scale of the current crisis to approach that of the 1980s debacle, in which 2,000 banks and savings and loans were eventually closed. Since the mortgage crisis began a year or so ago, the F.D.I.C. has seized 11 banks, the largest being IndyMac, a mortgage lender in Pasadena, Calif., last month. (The peak year during the savings and loan crisis was 1989, with 534 closings.)  In the 1980s one-third of the S.&amp; .Ls were insolvent, Mr. Barr said. Even if you listen to the extreme reports today, it does not sound as if it will be anything like that.  For Mr. Holloway, the return to work was quick. Within six weeks of the agencys call, Mr. Holloway and three other returning retirees were working in Dallas on a strategic plan for the troubled ANB Financial, a bank in Bentonville, Ark., with $2.1 billion in assets that had moved fatefully into construction lending.  I came in about three weeks before the bank was closed, Mr. Holloway recalled. Though he was briefly in Dallas, his real office is on the road, he said.  The F.D.I.C. seized ANB on Friday, May 9, so that it could use the weekend to regroup and open for normal business on Monday. A total of 100 people moved into the banks nine Arkansas branches and three offices in the West, with the mandate to separate the assets and deposits that would be transferred to the Pulaski Bank and Trust Company.   The acquisition, by a rival bank in Little Rock, was arranged by another part of the F.D.I.C. The team was careful to camouflage their identity in the days leading up to the seizure. Mr. Holloway and his colleagues used personal credit cards, rather than cards provided by the F.D.I.C., to avoid detection. If anybody asked why they were in town, they were told to say that they were with the Toy Shop on business, he said.   It is kind of cloak and dagger, Mr. Holloway said. You dont want to start a run on the bank.  From the seizure on Friday until ANB Bank reopened all its branches on Monday for customers under the Pulaski name, it was continuous work. Mr. Holloway and five colleagues huddled in the banks loan office in St. George, Utah. Two-thirds of ANBs loans had been made in Utah.   I was the asset manager, and the biggest assets were in Utah, he said. They also had offices in Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Idaho Falls, Idaho. So we consolidated them.  ANB, like other smaller banks, had been eager to grow and had determined that its local northern Arkansas housing market, heavily laced with retirees looking for new leisure homes, was saturated. It moved further west and into construction loans. Those can be among the most treacherous because it takes years to determine if the development is successful, if people will buy the properties and if the bank will be repaid. Between Friday night and Sunday morning, we separated the bad loans that would ultimately be sold off from the assets and deposits that would go to Pulaski Bank and Trust Company, Mr. Holloway said. In their first week of bank control, members of his team worked 60 to 70 hours. They were making the sorts of decisions that would  determine the fate of many projects under construction. In one case, Mr. Holloway and his team decided to advance more money to a golf resort project that was nearly 90 percent complete. While he says the resorts units may not bring as much as two years ago, he is convinced they will sell.  On the other hand, we are contemplating turning one project down where the borrowers need another $7 million to $8 million, he said. We are about halfway through, but the builders net worth is not as strong as we would like.   What the F.D.I.C. decides to sell is posted on its Web site. About $145 million in nonperforming loans of various types are listed for sale from ANB, along with a few properties from Arkansas to Utah.   For all the pressure and long hours, Mr. Holloway said he was invigorated by his new temp job. During the two years out of circulation, he spent more time at his lakefront home with his wife, Carla, wakeboarding and enjoying their leisure time. Partly for pay and partly to keep busy, Mr. Holloway worked one week a month  largely from home  reviewing small banks loans for the Small Business Administration. He finds bailing out troubled banks more exciting and fulfilling. After all, the agency is assuring people that most accounts are guaranteed up to $100,000 even in a failure, and in larger amounts in certain circumstances. About $40 million of $1.8 billion in deposits at ANB was not covered by government insurance. That meant most depositors were protected by the F.D.I.C.   I get gratification at a job well done and knowing that people did not lose their money, Mr. Holloway said. Then there is that bonus that all retirees can appreciate at a time when living costs have been rising and investment returns paltry He is now making as much as he did before he left the F.D.I.C., and he is collecting his pension. 
