August usually is a quiet time in corporate public relations. But Grumpy Editor feels Bank of America spokeswoman Shirley Norton has inherited one of the toughest jobs in the PR field: Responding to growing media queries regarding problem-infested Countrywide Financial...  August usually is a quiet time in corporate public relations. But Grumpy Editor feels Bank of America spokeswoman Shirley Norton has inherited one of the toughest jobs in the PR field: Responding to growing media queries regarding problem-infested Countrywide Financial Corp., which BofA acquired last month. Along with recent legal actions by state attorneys general in West Virginia, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois and California, the Federal Trade Commission this week jumped into the fray. The state suits against Countrywide claim the Calabasas, Calif.-based giant mortgage lender, which BofA acquired in a $2.5 billion deal, made risky loans that exposed home-buyers to foreclosures and accuse the company of using deceptive practices to make and service the loans. The FTC, meanwhile, is investigating Countrywides loan-servicing activities and has requested documents and information items from the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the latest state lawsuit, filed Tuesday, West Virginia Attorney General Darrell McGraw accuses Countrywide of luring customers with teaser rates that jump to a lofty 18 percent. Darrell also claims consumers were enticed with no-down payments and inflated appraisals. Last week, Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal filed a suit claiming Countrywide made loans home buyers couldnt afford and its practices were oppressive, unethical, immoral and unscrupulous."  Naturally, attempting to get input from the other side, national and regional media seek comment from BofA. So, with each new action, the calls go to Norton in BofAs PR department. As legal activity and reporter calls mount, Norton may have to come up with a better stock answer than saying she hadnt seen the complaint and, thus, cannot comment on it. 
