  Professor Bennet Sedacca put together a three part set of articles on the credit markets this week. One recurring theme is how the equity market speaks in a very different tone than the credit market. Let's take a look at a snip from A Tale of Two Markets, Part 3.Consider the case of American International Group (AIG), the once great insurance behemoth. It's now, in my opinion, been reduced to a company that is spinning out of control, unable to determine how bad its credit portfolio is and how bad its investment portfolio is. Mind you, this is a company with $1 trillion in assets, but bonds that are going down in price quickly and probably not coming back anytime soon. I have been contemplating ever since Stage 2 of the Credit Crisis began what company would be first to not be able to finance themselves.I thought it could be Lehman Brothers (LEH) (it still could), Merill Lynch (MER) (they sold their Bloomberg stake and other assets and diluted common shareholders at 10-year lows just to stay alive), but I hadn&amp;#8217;t considered AIG and the insurance companies. But I am now.Take a look at how AIG bonds are trading after its disastrous announcement. It's absolutely un-economical, in my opinion, to raise more capital as it already buried equity and preferred buyers on its last asset-raising go-round, so I don&amp;#8217;t know how it stays alive.Its comments in the press clearly demonstrate the lack of risk-controls. The problem here, of course, is that AIG isn&amp;#8217;t alone. It's just one of scores of companies that cannot finance themselves. The credit market is speaking, loud and clear.AIG 5 Year Corporate Spreads versus 5 Year TreasuriesClick On Chart To EnlargeNote that prior to the credit crisis&amp;#8217;s beginnings, AIG paper traded at a mere 69 basis points above 5 year Treasuries and has ballooned all the way to 675 basis points above Treasuries.I watch the debt trade all day as trades stream across my screens and it is the same here as it is for many regional banks and brokers. Some of the banks I expect to survive, like Bank of America (BAC), JP Morgan (JPM), UBS (UBS) and Wells Fargo (WFC), which trade pretty well.Citigroup (C), with all of its troubles, and all of its lack of controls and general disdain for clients, will likely survive in one way or another. It's probably too big to fail but I imagine will likely be broken into many parts.Professor Sedacca is always a good read. I encourage everyone to read all three parts. Here are the other two links:??????????????????????????????????In case you missed it, here is the disaster at AIG that Sedacca was talking about: AIG Plummets as Insurer Won't Rule Out Capital Raise.American International Group Inc., the biggest U.S. insurer by assets, fell the most since going public in 1969 after writing down more than $11 billion of holdings and saying it won't rule out raising capital."It's very hard to predict right now when and if we'll need more capital," Chief Executive Officer Robert Willumstad said today in a conference call with analysts. "Future losses can change that assumption and we're obviously dependent on the condition of the U.S. housing market."Willumstad faces increasing pressure to turn around AIG after the insurer posted more than $18 billion in losses over the past three quarters. The second quarter's $5.36 billion loss, reported yesterday, was worse than analysts predicted and renewed concern that AIG may need to raise cash by selling shares. Willumstad called current capital "satisfactory."Credit-default swap contracts, which are guarantees AIG sold to protect fixed-income investors, caused record losses in the two previous periods and accounted for about $25 billion in writedowns over nine months.AIG tripled its forecast of possible payments on the swaps to $8.5 billion, according to a presentation on its Web site. The insurer said it hasn't made any payments on the contracts and has posted $16.5 billion of collateral as of July 31 demanded by investors who purchased protection through the swaps."When counterparties start requiring that you post collateral, the best-case scenario is you don't have use of the cash for quite some time," said Donn Vickrey, analyst at research firm Gradient Analytics Inc., who has the equivalent of a "sell" rating on AIG. "In the worst-case scenario, this is probably a pretty good estimate'' of what the insurer will have to pay on the contracts.Investors may demand $13.3 billion more in collateral if the insurer's credit rating is downgraded again, AIG said yesterday in the filing. Ratings reductions "could have a material adverse effect on AIG's liquidity," the insurer said.Most of the capital raised in May has been used as collateral by the financial products unit and not all of the assets have been allocated, Vice Chairman Steven Bensinger said today.AIG Investments PortfolioInquiring minds may wish to browse as slide presentation on AIG Insurance Investments Portfolio.  
