ABC - Economy suffering in climate policy debate: RBA director A director of the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) says policy uncertainty about climate change is costing the economy. Professor Warwick McKibbin says there is a fixation with targets and timetables for addressing climate change and it is crucial to "get the balance right" between long-term environmental gains and short-term economic costs.  Stuff.co.nz - Scepticism over fuel-saving schemes Fuel-saving devices and additives are probably a waste of money, says the Automobile Association - a view several Timaru mechanics share. The AA said there was a lack of scientific testing and a reluctance by manufacturers to put forward products for independent testing. Bob Robb Motors' Malcolm Gavin has tried a number of additives in his car, even a magnetic device intended to improve fuel economy. While his car possibly ran smoother with some of the products, any savings weren't large enough to attribute to the additive or device alone. His advice was that a well-tuned car with properly inflated tyres used less fuel.  [break]  The National Business Review (NZ) - Pohokura oil and gas reserves lifted Oil and gas reserves in this country's largest petroleum field at Pohokura, offshore from New Plymouth, have both been lifted. The Ministry of Economic Development's latest Energy Data File shows the field's oil reserves up 38 percent from 44 million barrels to 61.6 million barrels. Pohokura's total gas reserves have grown by 24 percent to 978 billion cubic feet from 791bcf.  TheGisborne Herald - Find oil field soon or start planning safe sensible city cycle lanes If you live off the beaten track, in smaller cities like Gisborne, for instance, the best thing that could happen for the district would be to find an oilfield on our doorstep. Will it ever happen? Who knows, there have been high hopes of oil fields on land and sea around here. But we do know that if we don't find more resources or alternative supplies, over the next 40 years or so, life could become a lot more difficult than it is today.  ABC - Energy suppliers 'plan emissions scheme rip-off' Electricity suppliers are being accused of planning to rip off consumers under the Federal Governments' emissions trading scheme.  The Australian - Origin Energy backs carbon trading scheme CORPORATE Australia cannot afford to harbour climate change sceptics as the Government moves towards introducing its emissions trading scheme, according to Origin Energy's chairman.  The Australian - Call for Rudd to strengthen renewables target CONSERVATIONISTS have urged the Rudd Government to strengthen its proposed mandatory renewable energy target to meet its long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals, not ditch it as the Productivity Commission and Labor's adviser have suggested.  One News TV NZ - Fuel tax cops criticism The Auckland Regional Council's proposed regional fuel tax is under fire from the Road Transport Forum. The council is seeking government approval to gradually phase in the fuel tax, starting at one cent a litre, and building up to five cents a litre by July 2011.  Scene (NZ) - Fuel costs hit DIY snow-field The cost of helicopter access gives Invincible a narrow market of ardent snow-sporters not in pursuit of the aprs-ski social scene. It costs money but its not a luxury thing, Scott says. Soaring fuel prices play hell with the fields viability.  The Age - Partisan climate law can damage economy, says Garnaut critic AUSTRALIA is in danger of getting its legislative approach to climate change wrong to the extent that it could seriously undermine the economy, a leading economist and Reserve Bank board member has warned. Warwick McKibbin, Australian National University professor at the college of business and economics, said the Government and Opposition needed to strike a bipartisan agreement on a carbon scheme to tackle climate change. Otherwise, he said, any legislation resulting from the Government's green paper on its pollution reduction scheme would be at the mercy of minor parties in the Senate.  Nelson Mail , Stuff.co.nz - Clear weather window allows oil rig to leave The hulking form of the Ensco 56 oil rig slipped out of town Thursday morning after a nine-week stay at Port Nelson. The 143m-high, 53m-wide self-elevating rig arrived in Nelson at the end of May for a six-week refit. It had previously been drilling in the Pohokura gas field off Taranaki. It is now heading for the Awakino South site, which is being operated by Asian Drilling Services, about 10 nautical miles off the New Plymouth coast.  NZ Herald - Motorists hit with new fuel taxes Auckland motorists face new fuel taxes of up to 10c a litre from 2011, to pay for electric trains and other congestion-busting public transport investments. The Auckland Regional Council yesterday resolved unanimously to apply to the Government for its own 5c tax to be introduced in three stages, between next winter and mid-2011.  ABC - NRMA wants fairer country fuel price The NRMA wants oil companies called to account over a big gap between the cost of petrol in country centres and that being paid by motorists in Sydney and Wollongong.  
