 By Mosley Shepherd What is mortgage insurance? Mortgage insurance protects the lender against default by the buyer. This enables the lender to make a loan, which the lender considers a higher risk. Lenders often require mortgage insurance for loans where the down payment is less than 20% of the sales price. You may be billed monthly, annually, by an initial lump sum, or some combination of these practices for your mortgage insurance premium.Except for the addition of an FHA mortgage insurance premium, FHA closing costs are similar to those of a conventional loan. The FHA requires a single, upfront mortgage insurance premium equal to 2.25% of the mortgage to be paid at closing. This initial premium may be partially refunded if the loan is paid in full during the first seven years of the loan term.FHA MIP (Mortgage Insurance Premium) is a fee collected in connection with an FHA loan.  How much do I need for a down payment? For conventional mortgages, you need a down payment of at least 20% of the purchase price of a home. You can also get a mortgage with a down payment as low as 5%, but you must insure the mortgage against default. The insurance premium would be included in your regular mortgage payment.Most lenders now offer insured mortgages for both new and resale homes with lower down payment requirements than conventional mortgages - as low as 5%. Low down payment mortgages must be insured to cover potential default of payment, and their carrying costs are therefore higher than a conventional mortgage because they include the insurance premium. the payment of the mortgage default insurance premium (although the amount of the premium may be added to the mortgage amount).Except for the addition of an FHA mortgage insurance premium, FHA closing costs are similar to those of a conventional loan.  Who needs hazard or mortgage insurance? Every mortgage requires hazard insurance, the first years premium is paid at or prior to closing. Borrowers who have a LTV above 80% must pay mortgage insurance.If you have a VA, FHA or conventional loan with Private Mortgage Insurance, your insurance premium must be collected.Mortgage insurance protects the lender against default by the buyer. This enables the lender to make a loan, which the lender considers a higher risk.  Q - What is meant by mortgage insurance premium? A - The mortgage insurance premium or mortgage loan insurance as it is better known is provided by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), a crown corporation, and GE Capital Mortgage Insurance Company, an approved private corporation. New players such as AIG United Guarantee Insurance Corporation have just entered the market and as time goes on it is likely that we will see more options.For conventional mortgages, you need a down payment of at least 20% of the purchase price of a home. You can also get a mortgage with a down payment as low as 5%, but you must insure the mortgage against default. The insurance premium would be included in your regular mortgage payment.This is a conventional loan that basically does away with a monthly mortgage insurance premium.  How much can I borrow? You can borrow up to 95% of the value of your property. You may need to pay a one-off premium for Lenders Mortgage Insurance if your loan amount is more than 80% of the value of your property. To get a better idea of how much you can borrow, use our How Much Can I Borrow Calculator or call us on 1800 198 978.When you sign up for coverage, your premium will be added to your mortgage statement and identified as optional insurance coverage. The premium will be conveniently collected with your monthly mortgage payment.Mortgage insurance protects the lender against default by the buyer. This enables the lender to make a loan, which the lender considers a higher risk.  How much do I need for a down payment? For conventional mortgages, you need a down payment of at least 20% of the purchase price of a home. You can also get a mortgage with a down payment as low as 5%, but you must insure the mortgage against default. The insurance premium would be included in your regular mortgage payment.Private mortgage insurance (PMI) is insurance written by a private company that protects the lender from losses in the event the borrower defaults on the mortgage.    About the Author:   When it comes to mortgage calculator, getting the right information   
