I attended the second creditors meeting of Bill Express and twelve related companies in Melbourne this afternoon.  The key resolution of the meeting was to put the companies into liquidation.  Leading up to the decision to liquidate the businesses, the creditors meeting heard further detail of the mess the business ... I attended the second creditors meeting of Bill Express and twelve related companies in Melbourne this afternoon.  The key resolution of the meeting was to put the companies into liquidation. Leading up to the decision to liquidate the businesses, the creditors meeting heard further detail of the mess the business created for itself through an unnecessarily complex structure, lack of transparency, inadequate control and questionable business practices. One comment which interested me was that Directors thought negative media commentary played a part in the downfall of the company. I am not aware of any negative commentary which was untruthful. The only glimmer of financial hope for secured creditors such as the ANZ bank is a sale of the business. 7-Eleven has some time left on their exclusivity arrangement around this.  For their bid to go anywhere, they will need supplier and retail network support. It will be interesting to see how newsagents react should 7-Eleven get to the point where they are ready to ask the question. The ACCC and ASIC have active investigations into various aspects of Bill Express.   I hope that these are fruitful as they may help provide closure for newsagents.  I would also hope that formal interviewing of Directors around the question of possible insolvent trading and dubious transactions is useful. Today&amp;#8217;s meeting was funereal in mood as one would expect. There is no good news in this - hundreds of millions of dollars lost by ANZ, Optus, Vodafone, Telstra and others and the considerable potential future losses of tens of millions by newsagents relating to Bill Express equipment lease. I hope that anyone associated with the Bill Express business who is found to have breached their obligations is brought to account.
