 8/14/08   Credit CrisisBrett Steenbarger: "It's not stress and emotion that get in the way of trading; it's the stress and emotion that results when trading becomes personal: about you, rather than about supply and demand."Mick P.:"The Georgian foreign ministry in Tbilisi said the Black Sea port of Poti, the site of a major oil shipment facility, had also been "devastated" by a Russian air raid."The credit crisis is ``broad, deep, and global'' and ``far from over'' for financial companies even after they reported $500 billion in writedowns and credit losses, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s chief investment strategist said.``Investors are significantly underestimating both the scope and the extent of the credit bubble and the consequences of its subsequent deflation,'' Richard Bernstein wrote in a note to clients. ``The problems are not confined to large institutions that are overexposed to U.S. subprime loans.''The lingering effects of the crisis mean banks and brokerages need ``massive'' consolidation because of the glut of lending worldwide, Bernstein said.Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama has opened up clear lead over John McCain in New Jersey, though more Garden State voters agree with the Republican on energy, a new poll finds. The Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday has Obama leading McCain 51 percent to 41 percent among likely voters here. The Illinois senator is favored by 94 percent of African-Americans and maintains a 15-point lead among women, the poll found.A Quinnipiac poll in June found Obama leading by 6 percentage points.A leading Republican moderate with a foreign policy background endorsed Democrat Barack Obama yesterday, aiding the candidate's efforts to demonstrate appeal to members of both political parties.Former US representative Jim Leach of Iowa was among a group of Republicans, including former senator Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, who said they were crossing party lines to support Obama."I'm convinced that the national interest demands a new approach to our interaction with the world," Leach, a foreign service officer before being elected to Congress, said in a conference call with reporters.Leach served 30 years in Congress before losing a reelection bid in 2006. As a moderate, he was often at odds with the conservative GOP leadership, and like Obama opposed the Iraq war.Leach predicted many Republicans and Independents would be attracted by Obama's campaign but said his decision to endorse a Democratic presidential candidate for the first time wasn't easy.Whole Foods Market's recent voluntary recall of fresh ground beef sold between June 2 and August 6 in certain states has led the retailer to tighten oversight of its food suppliers, the New York Times reports.The Bank of England cut its forecast for U.K. economic growth and held out the prospect of lower interest rates as unemployment rose the most in almost 16 years.Deere now projects construction sales may fall as much as 5 percent this year, compared with a May forecast of down as much as 3 percent. Higher prices for tractors and combines weren't enough to counter a $140 million increase in raw-material costs from a year earlier.Soybeans rose for a third day, extending a rally from the lowest in more than four months, as a government report showed U.S. production and inventories will be reduced by the worst Midwest flooding in 15 years.Farmers will harvest 2.973 billion bushels compared with 3 billion bushels forecast in July, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said yesterday. Yields are forecast to fall to 40.5 bushels an acre from a July estimate of 41.6 bushels. U.S. inventories before next year's harvest will total 135 million bushels, less than the 140 million forecast a month ago.Two-thirds of firms doing business in the U.S. paid no federal income taxes from 1998-05.Richard Daughty: " I will turn you over to Robert Ross, who provides an interesting lesson in going to a fiat currency from a gold money in an article posted at FinancialSense.com, where he reminds us that "in Rome, 277 BC, the denarius was born. It was a silver coin, and for the first 250 years, its silver content declined only modestly. The modest decline corresponded with Rome's rise to become an empire. From the original 66 grains of silver, the value had only declined 10% to 60 grains, by the time of Julius Caesar (49 BC). But soon afterwards monetary tumult commenced in earnest." This was 228 years, which is just a little more than the time since 1776.I could tell by the look on his face that he was not interested in me interrupting with that little factoid about America or how I cleverly subtracted 1776 from 2008 to get 228, and continues, "In 54 AD Emperor Nero started to inflate and debase the value of Rome's money. Nero took 14.3% of the silver out of the denarius coin and 11% of the gold out of the aureus coin, replacing the precious metals with base metals."Finally, "As Rome continued on its moral, political and monetary decline, by 193 AD, the denarius had only 26 grains of silver - a 61% devaluation from the original 66 grains. Shortly thereafter, Rome's denarius stopped being accepted in trade by the rest of the world. By 268, the denarius was nothing but base metal with a thin silver coating."What's this got to do with anything we care about, which is ourselves? I thought you'd never ask! He says, "If we flash forward to the U.S. in the 1960s, we find that, in one fell swoop, all of the silver was taken out of our coins and replaced with base metals. Are we Rome on steroids???" Hahaha! Yes! Yes, we are!But snide comments about what a bunch of corrupt, bloodthirsty, power-crazed, commie hedonists we have become aside, he doesn't mention what an ounce of gold was worth all along the way when valued in the local currency, so I will. It went up! The whole time!And by 268 A.D., when the currency went to zero, gold was selling at a zillion denarii an ounce! Dollars. Denarius. Denarius. Dollar. Ponder and be instructed!"The U.S. budget deficit widened to a record for July as tax rebates boosted government spending, a slower economy cut revenue and regulators covered insured deposits at failed banks.The $102.8 billion deficit last month compares with a shortfall of $36.4 billion in July 2007, the Treasury said in a report issued in Washington. Spending last month rose 27.3 percent to a record $263.3 billion from a year earlier, and revenue decreased 5.8 percent to $160.5 billion.Since the start of the fiscal year on Oct. 1, 2007, the government has accumulated a deficit of $371.4 billion compared with a shortfall of $157.4 billion at the same point a year earlier, according to the Treasury.Year-to-date spending totaled $2.466 trillion, and revenue totaled $2.094 trillion, the Treasury said.The Bush Legacy: A collapsing standard of living on Main Street, a war founded on lies, trampling of the Constitution, record and rising budget and trade deficits, spiraling inflation, a dollar shunned by foreigners, a bulging government workforce, a severe recession with no end in sight, bubblemania created by irresponsible lending practices, a debt limit approaching $10 trillion, torture, etc.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. spent $15 billion last month to cover insured deposits at failed banks. The FDIC insures deposits of as much as $100,000 per depositor per bank and as much as $250,000 for some retirement accounts at 8,494 lenders with $13.4 trillion in assets.To finance the excess of spending over revenue, the Treasury sells bonds, notes and bills. The department said July 28 that it would need to borrow $171 billion in the July- September quarter, $59 billion more than it predicted in April.Macy's cut its full-year profit forecast to $1.70 to $1.85 a share from a previous projection of $1.85 to $2.15 a share, excluding restructuring costs.Liz Claiborne lowered the top end of its fiscal 2008 forecast to as much as $1.50 from a previous projection of as much as $1.60 a share as it said the difficult macroeconomic environment leads it to be cautious in its outlook.Russian steelmaker Novolipetsk Steel has signed an agreement to expand its presence in the U.S. by buying U.S. steel pipe and tube manufacturer John Maneely Company from a shareholder group including private equity firm Carlyle Group for $3.53 billion, Novolipetsk said in a statement today.The Beechwood, Ohio-headquartered John Maneely Company, or JMC, is the largest independent maker of tubular steel in North America and has estimated 2008 sales of around $3 billion, Novolipetsk said.India's economic growth is likely to slow to 7.7 percent for the fiscal year that started April 1, due to the drag of higher food and oil prices and tightening in credit and equity markets after the U.S. subprime crisis, a government report said Wednesday.Growth in agriculture is likely to be at 2 percent, sharply lower than 4.5 percent growth in the last fiscal year, the report from the Economic Advisory Council to India's prime minister said. Growth in industry and services will also slow to 7.5 percent and 9.6 percent, respectively, compared with 8.5 percent and 10.8 percent a piece in the last year, it said.India's economy grew 9 percent in the fiscal year through March. And it grew at an annual average of 8.8 percent over the past five years, the report said, but it added that "a number of factors inimical to growth have intensified in 2008."The report specifically cited higher oil prices, tightening in credit and equity markets and a global slowdown in growth."Overall, economic growth will slow down," the report said.U.S. import prices rose by 1.7% in July, mostly on prices for imported petroleum and natural gas, the Labor Department reported Wednesday. Prices were up 21.6% over the past 12 months, the largest 12-month increase in the history of the index. Petroleum import prices climbed by 4% in the month, while natural gas prices rose by 5.8%. Excluding all fuels, import prices rose by 0.7% in...
