I was interested to read that despite the turmoils in airline circles some airlines are managing to expand. Today Kingfisher Airlines has announced it will start flying from Bangalore to London on A330 frames and has permission to fly to 13 other international destinations across Asia, the Middle East and the United States. Interestingly it looks like that had to acquire the operating certificate of Deccan Aviation - because in India you need to have five years of experience before you can fly internationally. Given that Kingfisher also have five A380 on order; I guess India is the place to be if you want to expand in aviation terms.It would seem that the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers Association has given up on blaming overseas outsourcing for many of the ills of Qantas and is now blaming the airline for allowing standards to slip. They now claim that staff shortages and cost cutting are responsible for the spate of highly publicised incidents. Now the coverage is probably disproportionate - and many of the things that have been reported are problems all airlines deal with; but it is about time the employees commented on the culture at QF instead. Speaking of Qantas though - its not at all surprising to hear that their CFO, Peter Gregg, has resigned from the airline. He was expected to be a possible replacement for Geoff Dixon, but when Alan Joyce was named as the new CEO of QF his position was probably pretty untenable. I wonder where he will pop up next?Meanwhile it would appear that Tiger Australia is suffering the same kind of fate that Jetstar Asia had when it tried to expand into Singapore. Their books (which it tries to keep secret) reveal that it lost A$23m in the first four months of operation. Analysts worked this out by comparing the SGD$38m profit that the Singaporean operations had and the SGD$10m that they finally announced. Speculation is rife that the main backers Indigo Partners and the Ryan family (yes the Ryan's of Ryanair) might be becoming impatient with the Australian offshoot. It looks like banking consolidation is going to heat up in Australia with Westpac due to buy St George and now rumours that the Commonwealth Bank is going to buy BankWest from Scottish bank HBOS. All of this in the wake of its recent (and abrupt) decision to pull out of the purchase of the Australian operations of ABN AMRO (which is also owned by a Scottish Bank - the Royal Bank of Scotland). Also in banking, Woolworths has teamed up with HSBC and Mastercard to launch Everyday Money as their 'store' card; looks like everyone is heading in that direction with David Jones also planning on expanding their card later in the year. After work I headed off for a little bit of silliness after the film of the day was chosen by a friend - Zombie Strippers. I am all for zombie flicks they are just so stupid and this one did not disappoint in the gore stakes - but it just wasn't as funny as I hoped it would be. Indeed the idea of a zombie virus getting loose in a strip club and promoted by its unscrupulous owners could have been so hilarious - but it missed the mark.Tired. Will sleep early tonight I hope. 
