  Google News Alert for: Risk Management   Smart Investors Have to Wonder Who's Dumb Now: Michael R. Sesit Bloomberg - USA 6, the Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III -- a 16-person private-sector initiative representing major investment and commercial banks, ...  See all stories on this topic   Business Objects-SAP's mnage  trois Ovum - London,England,UK SAP is also looking to hitch up its EPM platform and applications to its GRC software to support applications around financial close, risk management and ...  See all stories on this topic   Food safety and risk management Globe and Mail - Canada The tragic outbreak of listeria infection that may have ended as many as five lives in Ontario should prompt a serious debate on how best to ensure the ...  See all stories on this topic   Full Year Statutory Accounts Sydney Morning Herald - Sydney,New South Wales,Australia Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk The Board has adopted a detailed risk management policy a summary of which is available on the Company's website. ...  See all stories on this topic   Pftsero trains for Disaster Management MorungExpress - Dimapur,Assam,India Pftsero, August 21 (DIPR): A two-day Disaster Risk Management Training began today at the ADC Conference Hall, Pftsero. On Thursday, EAC Kezhakeno, ...  See all stories on this topic   ANZ fires two executives after Opes Prime debacle The Australian - Sydney,Australia ANZ said today two senior ANZ executives would leave the group after a review into the bank's securities lending practices found risk management was not up ...  See all stories on this topic   Brascan SoundVest Funds Announce Distributions Market Wire (press release) - USA The investment advisor and portfolio manager for the Funds is Brookfield SoundVest Capital Management Ltd., which is 50% owned by Brookfield Asset ...  See all stories on this topic   Barclays Capital Japan Expands Commodities Risk Management Team Bloomberg - USA The company is expanding to ``provide companies with the tools for achieving higher levels of risk management,'' Tatsuya Ogawa, managing director at ...  See all stories on this topic   FirstBank Pays N24bn Dividend, Appoints New Director THISDAY - Apapa,Lagos,Nigeria This is coming barely two weeks after the announcement of Mr. Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, the Executive Director, Risk and Management Control, as the new Managing ...  See all stories on this topic   Stroke Rate in Diabetes Creeping Downward by Risk Management MedPage Today - Little Falls,NJ,USA 21 -- Aggressive diabetes risk management here appears to have lessened the rate of stroke and mortality for the first time for these patients, ...  See all stories on this topic Google Blogs Alert for: Risk Management   How to compare and select the appropriate Risk Management ...  By hyperrig  Never before has trading risk management software been more important and yet the process of selecting trading risk management software can seem bewildering. Superficially risk management software vendors will tick all the boxes but the ...   HYPERRIG.NET - http://hyperrig.net/blog    Stroke Rate in Diabetes Creeping Downward by Risk Management  By Marc Onigman(Marc Onigman)  21 -- Aggressive diabetes risk management here appears to have lessened the rate of stroke and mortality, researchers here found. Initial stroke incidence slid 0.1% per year among diabetic men in Sweden and a significant 1.5% per year ...   Diabetes Alerts II - http://langerhans2.blogspot.com/    Senior Manager V Business Risk Management  Title: Senior Manager V Business Risk Management; Company name: JARDEN CONSUMER SOLUTIONS; Qualification: University / College; Experience: 3 years; Work Location: Hong Kong; Date: 22 Aug 2008.   ClassifiedPost RSS Feed for - http://www.classifiedpost.com    VERBL: Risk Management in disability, mental health in virtual worlds  By Harriet Wakelam  The VERBL online resource suggests ways immersive technologies, such as virtual worlds, can be implemented in risk-based learning in the future. It also includes three case studies that revolve around learning in the disability, ...   WestCoastTafe - http://technologytwitter.typepad.com/westcoasttafe/    Credit Risk Management Head - Private Banking  Progressive European Private Bank, Extensive Asia Pacific and Global Presence, Base Salary SGD 150k - 180k plus variable performance bonus.   All Risk Management, Country... - http://jobs.scotland.efinancialcareers.co.uk/Singapore.rss   &amp;nbsp;This once a day Google Alert is brought to you by Google.   Remove this alert.   Create another alert. Manage your alerts. 
