This August, China is hosting the Olympic Games. This will offer an unparalleled opportunity to have a long, hard look at the world&amp;#8217;s fastest emerging power. During the Olympics the Liverpool Shanghai Partnership in association with the Liverpool Daily Post will stage a talk on the future of China for the city&amp;#8217;s business community. The event [...] This August, China is hosting the Olympic Games. This will offer an unparalleled opportunity to have a long, hard look at the world&amp;#8217;s fastest emerging power. During the Olympics the Liverpool Shanghai Partnership in association with the Liverpool Daily Post will stage a talk on the future of China for the city&amp;#8217;s business community. The event will take place at the Athenaeum Club on August 13 between 12.30 and 2pm. Places must be pre-booked in advance at a cost of 15. This includes a light buffet lunch and drinks. At the event Dr Kerry Brown the Executive Director of the Liverpool Shanghai Partnership, and Senior Fellow, Chatham House, will examine the key issues. What China means for our economic prosperity in the coming decades, and for the very sustainability of our civilization. Brown believes the rise of China poses immense challenges, but also offers extraordinary new opportunities. His talk will put China&amp;#8217;s rise in context, and explain why, for companies and organisations in Liverpool, whatever their sector, China matters. In the space of thirty years, China has gone from being one of the world&amp;#8217;s most enclosed, cut off countries, with extremely limited contact with the outside world, to being its third largest economy, its second largest trading nation, its largest attractor of Foreign Investment, and the largest holder of foreign reserves. China is the second largest user of oil after the US, and uses 40% of the world&amp;#8217;s steel, copper and iron. 25% of the pollution we breathe comes from China, but the goods it manufactures fills our shops and has saved us, as consumers, a hundred billion dollars in the last two decades. 70 thousand Chinese are studying at our universities in the UK, and there are half a billion Chinese users of mobile phones, and 200 billion users of the internet. The exposure this remarkable country - a fifth of humanity - will get in August will also make it a good time to think through what the impact of China and its increasing role in the global economy will mean for our lives, in the UK and Liverpool, in the coming century. China is at the crossroads. It now needs to develop from being a manufacturing economy, to a developed service economy. it is hungry for technology, and it is taking stakes in w estern companies like BP, Rio Tinto, and Total, through its sovereign wealth funds. Barclays, IBM, Blackstone, and MG Rover all have one thing in common - Chinese companies have a stake in them. China as an outward investor is a wholly new phenomenon - but something that can only increase in size and importance in the years ahead. Dr Kerry Brown has worked as a diplomat in China, commented on China for BBC, ITN, CNN and Bloomberg, and written about China in the Telegraph, Independent, and Guardian. He is author of `Struggling Giant, China in the 21st Century&amp;#8217; and is currently working on a history of the Chinese Communist Party. He is the Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, Associate Fellow of the China Policy Institute at Nottingham University, and Committee member of the Great Britain China Centre, the 48 Group Club, and the British Association of Chinese Studies.  Please rsvp to Sarah.zhang@l-s-p.org.ukor 0151 794 8055 
