On the brink: B&amp;amp;B could follow Northern Rock into public ownershipWANT TO KNOW MORE?OTHER STORIESFTSE LATESTBOOK OFFERSWhat made Warren Buffett the world's best investor?SAVINGS ACCOUNT FINDERDo your own homework on the best savings accounts with our account finder tool.Talks are still under way with rival banks over a possible sale of B&amp;amp;B's 200 branches and its savings business, which has about 20bn in deposits.Spanish bank Santander, HSBC and Barclays are among those looking to buy those valuable parts of the business. But the bank's 50bn loans business now seems certain to end up nationalised.The BBC's business editor Robert Peston claimed last night that the decision had already been taken.On his website blog he wrote: 'I have learned tonight that the Treasury has taken a decision to nationalise Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley, using the special legislation it put through when it took Northern Rock into public ownership earlier this year.'The nationalisation, which could be announced tomorrow [Sunday] night or first thing Monday morning, underlines the scale of the global banking crisis.'Sources at the Treasury and the Financial Services Authority cautioned that a final decision had not yet been made, but Peston's reports on Government policy during the banking crisis have so far proved accurate.The battered bank's loan book of 50bn includes 41bn in residential mortgages, mainly to buy-to-let landlords. These are likely to end up being nationalised, adding yet another burden to the Government's already strained finances.Treasury and Financial Services Authority officials had been hoping that the whole of B&amp;amp;B could be sold to Santander, but the Spanish bank was unwilling to take on the mortgages, whose value is shrinking as the UK housing market crumbles and arrears and repossessions are rising rapidly. The Treasury already has the powers to take all or part of a crisis-hit bank into State hands at a single stroke under the Banking (Special Provisions) Act 2008, passed to allow Northern Rock to be nationalised.The exact details of the sell-offs and nationalisation are unknown but the moves are unlikely to leave Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley shareholders with anything.Banks in crisis Why HBOS would never be allowed to fail How safe is your bank? Iceland's banks top 'riskiness league' Could Kaupthing Edge be the next Rock? The day the banks faced disaster Bank crisis: Are my savings safe? (March 2008) Banks measured for financial strength (June 2008)  Bank share prices (updated every two minutes)The Treasury is expected to be unwilling to see private investors keep any cash as long as taxpayers are exposed to financial risk, which they could be if the mortgage assets end up in public ownership. Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley's chief executive, Steven Crawshaw, stood down in June due to illness. His resignation came shortly after the bank announced a 300m cut-price share issue only weeks after denying there were any such plans.Mr Crawshaw, 46, started with Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley in 1999 as the bank concentrated on the booming demand for buy-to-let mortgages. He cut staff numbers drastically and sold the bank's estate agency, mortgage broking and building surveying arms within a year. Last year he was paid 1.11m.BUY, SELL, HOLDThere are currently 7 broker(s) tracking this stock. The results are:STRONG BUY: 0BUY: 0HOLD : 2SELL: 5STRONG SELL: 0UPDATED: 28/09/2008 04:35 pmLIVE PRICESLatest prices for BB. - updated every 2 mins subject to a 15 min delayOFFER (Buy): 19.5pBID (Sell): 19pMID PRICE: 19.25pCHANGE TODAY: -1.25pPREVIOUS CLOSE: 21.25pUPDATED: 26/09/2008 07:50 pmBradford &amp;amp; Bingley nationalisation  What you need to knowSaversEach of B&amp;amp;B's 2.6m savers will have savings protected up to a value of 35,000. There is no danger that sums lower than this will be lost. At time of writing, the government is looking to find a commercial buyer for B&amp;amp;B's savings business, in which case B&amp;amp;B savers will become customers of a different bank. Spain's Santander, HSBC and Barclays are said to be interested.BorrowersB&amp;amp;B mortgage customers will now be making their repayments to the Government. It is unlikely the terms of mortgage will be changed and customers will make repayments in the usual way.InvestorsThe Treasury is expected to be unwilling to see private investors keep any cash as long as taxpayers are exposed to financial risk, which they could be if the mortgage assets end up in public ownership. The government is already facing legal action from shareholders in Northern Rock who claim the Government rigged the valuation process to mean they are almost certain to receive nothing for their shares. B&amp;amp;B shareholders may follow the same path.
