LOOKING to where markets are going in the future? Ask a chartist.Will Slatyer, a retired futures and equities trader and a former director of the Sydney Futures Exchange, has combined different economic chart patterns to evolve an economic outlook for the US that may be painful for the next couple of years, but promises steady growth thereafter. But, he admitted, the huge US deficits (budget and trade) have the capacity to derail every mildly positive prognosis. 'It's the gorilla in the room,' he said, pointing to recent indications that the US budget deficit for the year is expected to hit a record $US482 billion. He said a worst-case scenario was that the US government may need to borrow $US1.8 trillion ($2.2 trillion) in the coming fiscal year. 'Unless the US gets support from Japan, China, Russia and the Middle East there is the possibility of a currency collapse. Such a scenario is much more troublesome globally than the Wall Street collapse,' he said. His graph, which purists will recognise as a fusion of the Kondratieff 60 year cycle with a low point in 2000 returning to midpoint in 2015, the shorter Juglar cycle (high point 2007, low point 2012) and the 38-month Kitchin cycle, offers a bit more hope to the financially besieged. 'The graph indicates that economic conditions would always have been considered as likely to be difficult in the period 1974-2001. The rallies peaking in 1978, 1987 and 1996-97 were peripheral and did not change the psychology of the real economy, which I classify as unsubsidised commodity production and manufacturing,' he said. He notes that the huge expansion of the financial services sector in Australia, and the accompanying growth in debt, obscured the fact that the realeconomy was in trouble. 'This realisation of the difference between the real economy and the 'new economy' allowed me to forecast very early that there was likely to be a major debt crisis after 2005, and most likely around 2007,' he said. 'The forecast, that is still valid, suggested a recession in the US around 2008-09 before a mild recovery, but quite possibly followed by a mild depression in 2010-12. 'The good news is the probability of a twenty year economic expansion from 2012-13 at a slow sustainable pace.' He said his overall forecast was for the US economy but that 'because Australian finances have been so much better managed by the Reserve Bank of Australia, although our country will most likely follow the recession/depression cycle, the effects will not be as severe as the US will experience.'
