Edited Press Release LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Lloyds TSB Group said Friday that it is placing up to 5% of its issued share capital by the issue of new Lloyds TSB Ordinary Shares. The Placing will be effected by way of an accelerated bookbuild to be managed by Citi Global Markets U.K. Equity Limited and Merrill Lynch International. The Placing is subject to the terms and conditions set out. The Placing proceeds, the number of Placing Shares and the Placing Price in respect of the Placing Shares will be decided at the close of the accelerated bookbuilding period, it said. The book will open with immediate effect. The timing of the closing of the book, (pricing with the agreement of Lloyds TSB) and allocations is at the absolute discretion of the Bookrunners. The Bookbuild is expected to close no later than 1800BST on Sep. 19, 2008 but may be closed earlier or later at the discretion of the Joint Bookrunners. The Placing Shares will, when issued, be issued credited as fully paid and will rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of Lloyds TSB, including the right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared after the date of the issue, it said. The Placing Shares shall not be entitled to the interim dividend declared on the ordinary shares in the capital of Lloyds TSB (the 'Lloyds TSB Ordinary Shares') on July 30. Application will be made for the Placing Shares to be admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority, and to be admitted to trading by the London Stock Exchange on its main market for listed securities, it said. It is expected that Admission will become effective on or around 24 September 2008 and that dealings in the Placing Shares will commence at that time. Participation in the Placing will only be available to persons who may lawfully be, and are, invited to participate by the Joint Bookrunners. Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=Tuf6jlTSR9asUD3iYofXbg%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
