It's simple, really. The current financial crisis began when home prices began to fall. As the 'housing bubble' burst, banks holding too many risky home loans were hurt, and agencies backing those mortgages felt the pain, as well. The federal government is now stepping in to cover those losses. But it's a bad solution. What we're really talking about is taxpayers taking the losses, but not enjoying any of the profits. The root cause is sub-prime lending -- that's the practice of giving mortgages to people who normally wouldn't qualify because of risk factors such as their credit history, their income or their work history. 'Sub-prime' means a less-than-ideal loan; the borrowers themselves pay more in the form of higher interest rates. In other words, mortgage companies made risky loans. There were several reasons for this. First, it was political. For years, both parties have long advocated home ownership. The government works hard to put lower-income people into homes of their own. Both the Clinton and Bush administrations have pressed lenders to loosen their loan requirements. There are proven benefits to increased home ownership, but there are also undeniable risks. Also, because of the housing boom earlier in the decade, home prices kept rising. That meant less risk for the lenders -- if a borrower defaulted on a loan, it would be relatively easy to foreclose, then sell the house for even more than the original loan was for. And finally, the risk of sub-prime loans has been spread out very broadly. There are lots of new 'financial instruments' that pool assets and risks for investors. This is called 'securitization;' think of this process as simply co-signing a loan, but for people you don't know. A meltdown involving money always involves greed; securitization was a way for investors to get the profits from high-risk loans, without having to accept the risk all by themselves. But then the bubble popped. Many of these loans proved to be bad. As of May 2008, a full 25 percent of the sub-prime loans with adjustable-rate mortgages (one of the riskiest types of loans to make, because payments can go up without warning) were delinquent. Both home prices and home demand fell. That means that lenders began getting stuck with properties worth less, in the current market, than the loan that was made on them. Because of securitization, these setbacks have had a broad ripple effect. First, they hit the biggest backers of risky mortgages: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two quasi-governmental entities that together hold nearly half of all American mortgages. The federal government was forced to take over both. Next came the insurance giant AIG, which was in trouble mostly because it insured those bad loans. The federal government stepped in with an emergency loan to AIG of $85 billion -- in return, the federal government became owner of 80 percent of AIG. That means we taxpayers are now in the insurance business. And last weekend, the big bailout was announced. The details are still being developed, but essentially, the government is going to buy many of the worst loans and securities from the lenders. These are being called 'toxic assets,' and for good reason. They're sinking the financial ship; if they can be off-loaded, the financial markets should right themselves. Will Americans ever see their $700 billion again? It's very possible. Remember, these loans were for real property -- something tangible and intrinsically valuable. If the government doesn't panic, and patiently holds the foreclosed properties until good sales can be made, then much of the public's investment will show a return. This explanation is simplistic, of course. There are many other elements that play a part in this sordid financial story -- mark-to-market accounting, short-selling, and now an FBI investigation into criminal wrongdoing at some firms. But these are the basics of the crisis. And it's clear that the only real solution is for banks to get back to the basics of making good loans. 
