Depositors will find a warm welcome from banks anxious to solve their funding problems, but borrowers can expect to face rising costs.Depressed traders, weary banking executives and worried consumers have dominated the headlines in recent weeks, as the entire global financial landscape has changed.The collapse of investment banking firm Lehman Brothers; Lloyds TSBs takeover of Britains biggest mortgage lender, Halifax; Bank of Americas buyout of Wall Street giant Merrill Lynch and the precarious wobbling of global equity markets have given rise to uncertainty and confusion for consumers and banking professionals alike.While the financial world is left scratching its head, wondering what went wrong and discussing rescue packages, consumers have very real concerns about the impact of recent events on their pockets.SavingAbout 140 billion is sitting in savings accounts around Ireland. But what does the future hold for savers in the wake of events in the global financial markets?Even before stories of venerable banks collapsing became front page news the world over, saving patterns in Ireland had already begun to change. Mark Kelly, marketing manager for savings with Bank of Ireland, said there had been a shift in focus over the last 12 months. Cash as an asset class is now a smart option, he said.Kelly said the 140 billion or so now on deposit was up about 5 billion on a year earlier, as people began to take the view that cash is king, due to poor performance by investments such as equities and property.For banks in the midst of a funding crisis, as wholesale lending rates creep upwards again, bringing deposits through the door is key.Some players in the industry will face a funding struggle, said Hugh OKeeffe, head of resources, strategy and products with AIB. Customer savings as the lifeblood of banks will become more and more important. The depositor is key to the future of banking.OKeeffe said that worldwide lending had outstripped the growth in deposits. The scarcity of the commodity - that is deposits - brings its true value into focus.For Irish people, the change in attitude to savings can be traced back to the popularity of the special savings incentive account (SSIA).Kelly said the SSIA concept had encouraged a revival of a savings culture in Ireland. People became very comfortable with the idea of regular saving, he said. After the SSIA scheme ended, banks came to market with a host of new regular saver products guaranteeing high interest rates. Next came a shift towards term deposits.You now have more savers than when the SSIA scheme was in full swing, said OKeeffe. Its a combination of a change in attitudes, a push by banks and a backdrop of European Central Bank rates at 4.25 per cent.While banks may be keen to attract savings to ease their funding burden, the types of product on offer look unlikely to change dramatically. Kelly said: There are two types of core product - regular savings accounts and lump-sum savings products. However, he said, while the core products were largely the same, there were a lot more flavours of accounts than in the past.For savers, earning a good return on their cash is still a priority, but recent events have resulted in a heightened awareness of deposit security, according to OKeeffe. Last week saw a massive change in the deposit protection scheme, with the amount of money guaranteed increasing from20,000 to 100,000. This development was quite significant in terms of instilling confidence, he said.The changes to the deposit protection scheme gave a much-needed confidence boost to savers, and tipped the balance back in favour of Irish banks. Concerns about bank security had reportedly caused some savers to move their money to foreign banks which - prior to last weekends change - had operated with more generous compensation schemes than the previous Irish deposit protection scheme. For example, online bank Rabodirect, licensed by the Dutch Central Bank, guarantees that account holders will receive full compensation on the first 20,000, plus 90 per cent of the next 20,000.Savers with National Irish Bank, which is a subsidiary of Danske Bank, would be covered by the Danish deposit protection scheme, which pays out just over 40,000 in the event of a bank failing to meet its savings obligations. They have applied to be covered here for the balance of the new 100,000 limit.An Post - which has a state guarantee for all its deposits - saw an increase in savings in recent weeks as savers fled to the most secure depository for their cash.The change [in the deposit protection scheme] has pushed the pendulum back, OKeeffe said.Recent uncertainty in the financial markets coupled with recession woes mean that savers are starting to move towards more liquid forms of savings. Derek Keogh, head of personal savings with Anglo Irish Bank, said demand deposit accounts were becoming more popular than notice accounts, as people wanted access to their cash in case they lost their job or hit some form of financial crisis.Keogh predicted that rates for savers would not persist at the current high levels. There is a point at which wholesale markets will open up. At the moment, banks are paying up to encourage people to save with them, he said.However, he said that once banks were able to access other sources of funding at a lower cost, the high rates on savings would probably begin to come down.BorrowingOn the other side of the fence, people who want to borrow money have felt the squeeze over the last few months, and recent events look set to exacerbate an already tight lending market. Its a simple equation - banks find it harder to access funds on the wholesale markets, meaning consumers pay heavily to borrow.It is clear that the financial market turmoil is having a significant effect on the price and rationing of lending globally, said Ronnie OToole, chief economist with National Irish Bank.He explained that, from a borrowers point of view, recent events had a much more marked effect than an increase in rates by the ECB. We estimate that the impact of the financial turmoil on the economy is equivalent to five interest rate increases - or a cumulative 1.25 per cent increase in interest rates during 2008, he said.OToole explained that this multiplier effect was a combination of the increase in spreads and more cautious credit approvals. This will probably fade during 2009, although it will still be the equivalent of a half percentage interest rate increase, he said.Another concern raised by borrowers recently - as they watched big-name banks crumble - was over what would happen to mortgage and other loans if lenders were to fail. Alas, there is no magical waiver scheme to erase your debts.The borrower is still liable to repay the loan, said a spokeswoman for the Irish Banking Federation.The repayments would be made to the liquidator or receiver or, if the situation arose, to the new bank if the loan book was taken on by another entity.She said section 136 of the Consumer Credit Act provided some protection for the borrower if a mortgage lender was wound up.The borrower cannot, for example, be forced to accelerate the loan repayments. Also, the liquidator - if selling on the mortgage to another bank - must do so on terms which the High Court regards as just and equitable, and on terms which the borrower would have been reasonably entitled to expect if the lender had not been wound up, she said.One of the main elements of lending is undoubtedly mortgages, and the level of new borrowing remains subdued. Dara Deering, head of membership business at EBS, said mortgage lending was down about 20 per cent year-on-year.Deering said it was hard to estimate the impact of the collapse of large financial institutions internationally and the merging of others on the cost of borrowing for consumers.There has been an increase in the cost of funding in the last few weeks and we are unsure whether this will level off or continue, she said.However, if more expensive wholesale borrowing persists, the higher cost will probably be passed on to consumers.
