 SPRINGDALE -- The shares of publicly traded banks doing business in Northwest Arkansas lost between 3 percent and 8 percent of their market values intraday Wednesday, as Wall Street's panic-stricken investors continued to unload shares in the volatile financial sector seeking safety in gold and U.S. Government Bonds.Despite a late rally and partial recovery, the shares of seven banks in the region ended the day with losses. 'Although the market losses are a distraction for bank officials, they will not likely have any immediate impact on a bank's regulatory capital ratios,' said Tim Yeager, Arkansas Bankers Chair at the University of Arkansas.He said the financial markets take a 'forward-looking' view and could be factoring in some future charge-offs and loan writedowns that banks will need to make in the next couple of quarters, or the market could simply be overreacting to the liquidity crisis seen in insurance giant AIG, and now bankrupt Lehman Bros.In any event, publicly traded banks are vulnerable to news and market emotion that privately held banks avoid.Although far removed from Wall Street, Yeager said all publicly traded banks are subject to systematic market risks beyond their control as they fluctuate both up and down as part of the broader market swings.Yeager said bank regulators use book value, not market value, to calculate capital ratios, which are under closer scrutiny amid escalating loan losses related to real estate. (Book value is the cost of cumulative assets minus accumulated depreciation, and is a more static number than market value.)Book values are also helpful as benchmarks to investors to determine if a stock is over- or under-priced, analysts said.Scott Alaniz, portfolio manager with Boston Mountain Money Management in Fayetteville, said while some of the smaller bank stocks local to Arkansas have come down in price this year, the amount of risk still present in the market has potential investors waiting in the wings, perhaps expecting a deeper discount. " Shares of Little Rock-based Bank of the Ozarks were off more than 3 percent intraday, closing at $27.25, down 48 cents, or 1.73 percent. " Tulsa-based BOK Financial, parent of the Bank of Arkansas, saw its shares fall more than 3.4 percent earlier in the day, but closed at $47.28, down $1.34, or 2.76 percent. " Shares of Harrison-based First Federal Bank dropped 3.73 percent to close at $7.22, down 28 cents. " Pine Bluff-based Simmons First National shares declined 6.3 percent to close at $28.58, down $1.92. " Shares of Iberiabank, parent Pulaski Bank &amp;amp; Trust, fell 2.76 percent to close at $57.01, down $1.62. " Regions Financial shares closed down 7.24 percent at $10.89, down 85 cents. " Bank of America shares lost 6.7 percent to close at $27.56, down $1.99.
