CREDIT insurance is being withdrawn from vulnerable Yorkshire firms as insurers seek to reduce risk amid the global slump which has seen one industry giant bailed out for $85bn. UK sectors, including food and drink, construction and manufacturing, and fuel and haulage, are most at risk of having their credit insurance withdrawn because of an increasing number of insolvencies in these areas, according to insurance broker Aon Trade Credit. Last week, the US Federal Reserve bailed out AIG, the world's largest insurer, with a taxpayer-funded loan. Now insurers will be more averse to the risks of covering firms here after much of AIG's $440bn credit insurance was labelled 'toxic'. Credit insurance covers bad debt following the insolvency of a customer, but Aon's credit insurance arm has warned that a very large number of insolvencies predicted towards the end of 2008 could mean that credit insurance costs could rise by at least 10 per cent, and, more worryingly, could lead to underwriters withdrawing cover during this crucial time. Richard Taylor, who is responsible for the commercial division at Aon in Leeds and Sheffield, said: 'A number of companies buy credit insurance to protect against going bust. Insurers are looking to restrict cover with certain companies and that has a knock-on effect. The rate is going up by 10 per cent but it is the preferable option to not getting cover at all. 'We are helping companies to manage their credit risk, and ensuring that we do a detailed assessment on the business and don't offer unrealistic levels of credit. It's very much risk management. This will have a significant impact. There is potential for a significant increase in the number of businesses that will go to the wall if we believe what we hear about in the general economic climate.' Graham Bristow, branch director for Aon Trade Credit in Leeds, said that some firms would struggle 'Any Yorkshire businesses that are supplying retailers " particularly now that we are coming up to Christmas " are the sectors most at risk. If you are supplying retail, you have got a problem. 'Yorkshire firms exporting to Spain and Italy are also in a bad position. Spain is having major problems in construction, and Italy, as a country, is a notoriously bad payer.' When it came to paying bills, 'no-one can say who is blue chip any more', Mr Bristow added. Help prevent slashed credit limits work closely with insurers to persuade their customers to share confidential management figures with underwriters who are struggling to write cover on outdated accounts. share your own balance sheet information with insurers to show your own credit worthiness and to reassure your supply chain. identify the need for special contractor wordings in existing or prospective wordings. manufacturers of bespoke products should seriously consider taking out insurance cover for work in progress if they have an extended manufacturing period and check current policy wordings for binding contracts cover. take every opportunity to establish long-term contracts with insurers to help control premiums which are likely to increase with high insolvency levels going forward. reconsider insurers' debt recovery arrangements, if you have previously opted out. The full article contains 554 words and appears in n/a newspaper. Page 1 of 1 
