'A company that supervises itself - ASX is listed on ASX - has a conflict of interest, simple as that.'Related CoverageMichael WestTo the glee of those who have watched their shares get hacked to pieces, the hedge fund short sellers in Babcock &amp;amp; Brown have been savaged this week in an almighty 250% 'short squeeze'' amid takeover speculation.As your average hedge fund is leveraged by at least a factor of five their losses may well have surpassed 1000% in five days. Such are the perils of leverage. And such is the volatility of this market, exacerbated by the ban on short selling.Volumes are down, volatility is up, confusion abounds and Australia's regulatory reputation has taken something of a hammering, the regulators having not done enough to enforce disclosure in the first place, then having gone too far to rectify the mess.Is there a takeover predator lurking in the wings for B&amp;amp;B? If there is, the insider traders have cleaned up. The company has debunked the rumour after receiving a 'speeding ticket'' from the ASX asking it to explain the surge in its stock price. Not that that rules out a corporate play.In the present climate though, and in view of B&amp;amp;B's debts and hidden management agreements over its satellites a bid would be unlikely, despite the quality of the underlying assets.The irony is that a change of control in B&amp;amp;B, were a bid to succeed, would probably void the management agreements and choke B&amp;amp;B's fee flow. A quick death that is. The group derives more than 90% of its income from its satellite stocks. B&amp;amp;B Power and B&amp;amp;B Infrastructure alone tipped in $270 million in fees last year.But what is a change of control, what does it constitute? Thanks to the regulatory failure to enforce reasonable disclosure we don't know. The management agreements are secret.Unit holders in the satellites are similarly inconvenienced. If they wished to set themselves adrift from the Babcock mothership, as some do, they might have to shell out millions in penalties, for years. But they don't exactly know either.In the case of BBP, the 25-year management agreement with the parent another case of supervisory largesse from the Exchange to one of its best clients is briefly disclosed in the PDS, which notes BBP may terminate the management agreement if B&amp;amp;B ceases to hold more than 50% of the issued capital of the manager.There was a kerfuffle at the ASX general meeting this week when shareholder activist Stephen Mayne locked horns with outgoing chairman Maurice Newman over these and other issues. Mayne was right, although his tilt at the board fell short.ASX is an admirable company whose management has been first rate in delivering record profits each year to grateful shareholders.Running a licensed stock market monopoly in the sunlit uplands of the biggest bull market in history is one thing, however, and being the market supervisor in a severe downturn entirely another.The ASX has appeased its big investment bank clients with waivers and a blind eye for too long to the detriment of shareholder rights. Disclosure has suffered and asset prices have suffered the plight of B&amp;amp;B satellites being a prime example.Still, the ASX remains in denial. Rejecting accusations of a conflict of interest in being market supervisor and a company run for profit - Newman lashed out at the media for 'blind prejudice'' and even had a swing at CBA chief Ralph Norris and QBE chairman John Cloney for stating the obvious about the Exchange's conflict of interest.He denied ASX had a conflict for starters. A company that supervises itself (ASX is listed on ASX) has a conflict of interest, simple as that. How it is handled is another matter.He had a big swipe at the media and corporate governance advisory mob Risk Metrics for being too misleading and simplistic in their criticisms and then went all legalistic in rebutting their assorted claims.'We have been accused of granting waivers to facilitate the listing of entities, by allowing details of management agreements to go undisclosed, when no waivers were granted and the essential content for informed investment decisions is set out in the prospectus,'' Newman said.Ahem ... when no waivers were granted? This sort of thing is typical of corporate rhetoric whose purpose is to PR-spin a company and its directors out of all responsibility for anything.The facts are that ASX and corporate watchdog ASIC are prolific issuers of waivers in all sorts of areas from exemptions for companies to trade in their own shares to exemptions from normal disclosure obligations. Investors suffer as a result.For the ASX's part, it has granted a whole raft of waivers, among them waivers to Listing Rule 6.8 which enable externally-managed entities (such as those promoted by BNB and MQG) to appoint a majority of directors to the board of a satellite.Newman rejected claims the ASX had not addressed weakness in short-selling rules until the market turmoil this year when 'we pushed the relevant authorities for legislative action in mid-2007''.
