: Email: PrintSubmit comment: Submit commentTerry McCrannTHE Fed delivered exactly the right combination with its 'Tuesday one-two'. But all it achieved was to avoid an immediate - unnatural - disaster named AIG.It certainly doesn't even end the sort of market volatility that can see an individual share price gap-down by double-digit percentages only to - hopefully, in some cases - spring back the next day or so.Far less achieve something more fundamental like a path out of the financial morass in the US, and in the process guarantee that the world economy won't get whacked.Indeed, all it might have achieved is to shift 'the problem' - for hedge funds, 'the opportunity' - across the Atlantic with the meltdown in the share price of the HBOS Bank.Different arms of the Fed - the Federal Reserve, their version of our Reserve Bank - had two big decisions to make on Tuesday, Washington time.What we normally abbreviate as 'the Fed' is actually the Federal Open Market Committee or FOMC, which like the board of our RBA decides the official interest rate. Just as with ours, on the 'recommendation' of the governor, in their case Ben Bernanke.The FOMC is significantly different though in two key respects. It is composed of professionals - a mix of Fed insiders and rotating heads of the individual regional Fed banks.In contrast, our RBA board has only three insiders - the governor and his deputy and the head of treasury. With the rest business lay people.Secondly, the Fed discloses how people vote on rate decisions. Our RBA does not.So the FOMC, appropriately and even wisely, decided to leave their official rate unchanged at just 2 per cent. That compares to our 7 per cent.The difference, incidentally, tells you just about all you need to know about the comparable health of the two economies and the quality of economic management. All, all of it, favourable to us.And further and arguably more importantly, because it's about the future, the difference tells you also about the weapons available to the respective governments/ central banks to meet any challenge or threat.Again, we have weapons galore and flexibility aplenty, in spades; they don't.That's something for all politicians to ponder; who generically and genetically seem to think - sorry, that should be 'think' - lower is intrinsically and intuitively better than higher. As in, interest rates.Almost as significant as the decision not to cut the official rate was the disclosure that it was unanimous.On previous occasions we've had dissenters. Examples where an individual wanted a bigger cut or opposed any cut.This tells you that Bernanke is in command; and that he wants to draw a line in the sand at 2 per cent. Indirectly, that his predecessor Alan Greenspan went too far in cutting the official rate to just 1 per cent and then leaving it there for a whole year.The second big - bigger - decision was made by the Fed proper, in conjunction with the US government. That was the bailout of AIG, the US's biggest insurance group, American International Group.Now the word bailout might be too harsh, precisely because the terms imposed on AIG are themselves harsh; punishingly harsh.It gets up to $US85 billion, but has to pay 8.5 per cent over LIBOR, the base rate for lending. For comparison, it'd be like you getting a home loan at 16.5 per cent. I doubt you'd regard that as generous, far less sustainable.It's all about preventing the mother of all fire sales of financial assets that would devastate global markets.Not about propping up AIG - it effectively goes into controlled liquidation mode. And not about giving anything to its shareholders - the US government gets 80 per cent of the AIG's equity.So if there is anything left for shareholders at the end of all this, 80 per cent goes to the taxpayer. Who, incidentally, would also have got all their $US85 billion back. As there will only be anything left for shareholders after the creditors are paid in full.The very process of doing all this should ensure that at least most of the $US85 billion will return.Whatever the net cost turns out to be, it's an insignificant price to pay compared with the devastating cost of the 'alternative'. Letting AIG - and who knows what and how many after it - slide into the maelstrom.Similarly with the Fed's bail-outs of Freddie and Fannie. Yes it all might compromise 'moral hazard', but it's been done in the best, and most effective, way.Now the two decisions were made by separate parts of the Fed, and while not directly co-ordinated, were better than the alternatives.Stretching from no bailout for AIG and no rate cut, to a bailout and rate cut, or a rate cut and no bailout in between.That's better for the global financial situation, and so for us. The bailout stabilises as best as can the immediate financial situation.A rate cut would have done nothing to help. Institutions like AIG need liquidity, not a marginally lower interest rate.Contrast the possible 0.25 per cent rate cut with the 8.5 per cent extra it is paying on the money.But a rate cut could stoke trouble for the longer term; and in the more immediate future undermine the US dollar. The last thing the Fed wants is to add a dollar crisis to the other issues it faces.Bottom line for us is that the Fed chose the right course and policy mix.What its done with Freddie and Fannie and now AIG is a bigger and more specific version of what all the central banks have been doing. Pumping in short-term liquidity, not just writing blank cheques that would both fuel future inflation and 'reward' past mismanagement.The Fed, like our RBA, lends money collateralised against assets that financial institutions can't sell with markets frozen; and which it would be devastating and ultimately pointless to force them to sell at any price.As markets stabilise, they will sell and will repay the Fed/RBA.Bottom line for us: the courses adopted mean a 'better' outlook than all the alternatives.Not, to stress, any sort of solution. And no, it doesn't guarantee we don't face a global economic slowdown in 2009.
