Three area economists believe the fallout from this weeks financial institution failings may not be as extreme in South Dakota as in other locations around the country.The South Dakota economy is not going to be impacted to the same extent as other parts of the country, particularly those that are concentrated in financial services, said Dr. Ralph Brown, professor emeritus of economics at the University of South Dakota.But, we are by no means isolated from the issues either.How all of these events will impact the region is more difficult to predict, but Brown emphasized that the state will not be immune to the fallout.It just depends on how serious this all ends up. If this ends in a serious recession nationwide, that will be reflected in South Dakota, Brown said. If the impact is more modest, it will be more modest here. We here in South Dakota are not insulated from tighter money situations. Interest rates will be higher, and that will slow us down.Locally, the most visible sign of that slowdown will be in acquiring loans.The main effect we will see is, it will be harder to get loans for expanding businesses, starting businesses, buying a house or getting student loans, said Dr. Joe Sejnoha, associate professor of business at Mount Marty College. There will be a larger investigation into the people applying for loans and it will be a lot harder to get credit,Due to the higher number of mortgages going into foreclosure and causing huge financial losses, the past 10 days have seen several shakeups in the financial world. The government has seized control of the country's two biggest mortgage finance companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Merrill Lynch, the world's largest brokerage firm, was sold to the Bank of America. The largest bankruptcy claim in U.S. history was filed by Lehman Brothers, a global financial-services firm. On Tuesday, the government announced it was providing an $85 billion emergency loan to the country's largest insurance company, American International Group Inc. (AIG).Because of these major shakeups, Wall Street is on a rollercoaster ride. On Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 504 points, recovered 141 points on Tuesday after the Fed decided to leave interest rates unchanged, but on Wednesday it dropped another 449 points.The financial crisis caused primarily due to the collapse in the housing market has not affected the area as hard.The region did not experience the extreme high 'bubble' in the housing market because home prices rose at a rate about one-half of the national average over the last 10 years, Brown said. The house values are not as compromised here due to the more stable pricing structure. As a result, the number of people holding mortgages larger than the value of their home is significantly lower in the area, compared to what is being seen in other parts of the county.Meanwhile, The Associated Press reported Wednesday that the number of foreclosures in Nebraska jumped nearly 39 percent from the same period a year ago. Approximately one in every 2,000 Nebraska homes are involved in foreclosure. While that statistic sounds grim, it is relatively mild when compared to the national ratio of one in 400.What really happened with these sub-prime mortgages is, people who couldn't afford the house they were buying were able to borrow the money because the banks wanted the business, Sejnoha said. (Home owners) had low payments to begin with, but the interest rates and payments went up. Then the housing market slumped and their homes were not worth the money they owed.Unfortunately, the end to the crisis is impossible to predict.I don't know when the end of this correction will happen, said Dr. David Carr, assistant professor of economics at the University of South Dakota. There will be long-term changes in the mortgage industry. Risky behaviors that have happened in the past are going to end and go away. ... These major corrections happen time and again. It is just the market correcting itself.Most people are not a direct stockholder of Merrill Lynch or Lehman Brothers. They may be a part of your retirement holdings. ...People are more concerned with how this is affecting their retirement holdings.People are nervous about the actions they should take, if any, and that nervousness is reflected in the 17 percent decrease in online trades during the month of August though Omaha's TD Ameritrade.I think it just reflects that people are not sure what to do, Sejnoha said. Probably, they have (retirement accounts) in secure investments and want to leave them there. The fact that the stock dropped 500 points, while it is not good, it is something that needed to happen.The area's largest tie to the financial giants is Citibank in Sioux Falls.Citibank has been through this already, Brown said. They were one of the first companies that had a lot of bad loans and investments in mortgages. They wrote off billions of dollars some months ago. I don't think we are going to see much more impact on Citibank.One thing that we haven't heard about, though, is the impact of all the bad loans in the mortgages industry starting to show up in the credit card operations. There is the potential for that to be a problem. I am not saying it is or will be, but it is a possibility.Another barometer of the local economy is the local unemployment rate.Employment numbers in South Dakota have slowed considerably, but are still higher than last year, Brown said. Wages haven't gone up as fast as prices and that tendency is probably true in South Dakota. This year, inflation is more than 5 percent. (But) most people haven't seen that reflected in their salaries. The Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor published its monthly report Tuesday, showing the actual average weekly earnings rose by just 3.3 percent from August 2007 to August 2008.That number reflects that fewer people are being hired and at lower wages: The economy is not creating as many jobs, Sejnoha said. When the housing slump started, there were fewer houses being built, so it starts coming down through the economy. Part of the reason we are not as affected here in the area is we never get as high as (the rest of the nation.) We also don't get as low. But this is sort of a new territory, so who knows.According to numbers released in August, South Dakota had the lowest unemployment rate in the country at 3.0 percent. Nebraska, at 3.4 percent, was also much lower than the national average of 6.1 percent.The state of South Dakota is concerned about how the public might react to the AIG crisis and released the following statement late Wednesday declaring its optimism in the situation.'It's my expectation that the various AIG companies will continue to provide insurance to South Dakotans and pay claims as normal,' said Merle Scheiber, Director, Division of Insurance. 'The most likely change for policyholders as a result of this crisis is that their insurance company will be sold and their policies transferred to the new company. 
