New Zealand union officials are worried that possible job cuts flagged today by the ANZ bank could be mirrored in Australia. ANZ Retail Banking managing director Wayne Besant today said the rise of internet and phone banking meant there had been a drop off in over-the-counter transactions in New Zealand. He said the bank would carry out a review of customer activity to align its service model with customer demand. 'Expressions of interest for voluntary redundancy is one option that we will explore with some staff in specific areas of our ANZ branch network,' he said in a statement. The bank called staff members to a series of meetings today to discuss the review, as finance union Finsec accused it of breaking a promise to increase front-line staff. Finsec said ANZ had pledged to boost front-line staff when it announced its intention earlier this year to send up to 500 back-office jobs to Bangalore in India. It said the bank today had spoken of a freeze on recruitment, a reduction in the use of casual staff to cover absences, and a tightening of overtime being worked. 'When they announced the off-shoring of hundreds of jobs to India they promised to increase frontline staff numbers and customer service,' Finsec campaigns director Andrew Campbell said. He said Finsec representatives would speak, via conference call, with Australia's Finance Sector Union (FSU) tonight. 'Obviously, one of the things that has been said a lot today is that this has been driven a lot by Australia, and New Zealand is often used as a bit of a guinea pig for the company,' Mr Campbell said. 'So, obviously, what is rolled out here, I think there is always a risk that you can end up seeing that on the other side of the Tasman too.' Mr Campbell said ANZ had about 2,500 staff working in 150 branches in New Zealand, and many of the workers were shocked by today's news. 'They are completely devastated. You know there were members in tears. There were people who have been through major restructuring before,' he said. Mr Campbell said industrial action could not lawfully be taken in New Zealand outside a bargaining period, but there were health and safety issues Finsec would talk to members about in coming days. 'We are going to be talking with members next week and getting their feedback,' he said. 'Obviously, already there is a lot of anger out there, very strong opposition, and we will be mounting a campaign to stop these proposals going ahead.' He said any argument that ANZ needed to cut staff because of the recession in New Zealand or the global credit crunch were false. 'I think this is being done by Mike Smith, the new CEO in Australia, to double the profits in five years and reduce costs any way they can,' he said. An ANZ spokeswoman said the move to review operations in New Zealand did not relate in any way to Australia. 'The review of customer activity relates only to branches in New Zealand,' she said. 
