LONDON: A new world order is emerging across the banking landscape as Wall Street titans and home lenders topple or need rescue deals and a handful of banks strive to emerge as winners from the wreckage. Japan's Nomura, Britain's Barclays and U.S. lender Bank of America have all struck deals to take advantage of 'once in a generation' bargain prices. HSBC, JP Morgan and others are also picking their way through a crisis that some investors have likened to a tsunami, and are confident of having the capital, diversity and strategy to come out as winners. 'The real winners are going to be those that pick up great assets at distressed prices,' said David Williams, analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton in London. Barclays' purchase of Lehman Brothers' U.S. broker-dealer business makes financial sense and stands out as providing 'a springboard for Barclays' strategic ambitions' in building up its U.S. investment bank arm, he said. Bank of America's $50 billion move for Merrill Lynch could also stand out as a masterstroke once the dust settles on the credit crisis. 'The key is whether Bank of America can really harness everything that Merrill has to offer, and integrate it. It's possible that in two or three years we'll look back and say that's a fantastic deal,' Williams said. Nomura has used the turmoil to scrap an organic overseas expansion plan that had patchy success over 20 years and snap up Lehman's Asian and European investment bank units. JP Morgan used its commercial banking backbone to rescue Bear Stearns and will expect that to be shown in investment banking revenues when markets recover. But history shows integrating investment banks can be a minefield even in good times as cultures clash. A difficult job market could smooth the process this time around, but the prospect of tough capital markets could mean benefits take several years to emerge. That could leave better deals for those that reduce a bank's dependence on the boom and bust of Wall Street. Deutsche Bank's swoop for Deutsche Postbank wasn't cheap but will make it the dominant retail bank in Germany, reducing its reliance on capital markets and positioning it for a tougher economic backdrop. Lloyds TSB picked off HBOS, Britain's biggest home lender, in a deal that could never have happened before the credit crisis. Competition rules were waived to save HBOS, and the result will be massive cost savings and a dominant position for UK mortgages, current accounts and savings. 'That's a good deal if it can be executed at the present price and without future competition concerns,' said Colin McLean, managing director of SVM Asset Management. In Asia, Korea's Kookmin could consolidate its domestic stronghold by moving on Korea Exchange Bank after HSBC pulled out of a deal following a fall in valuations. SAFE OR BOLD? There will be more subtle winners, such as those who steer a steady course, aren't forced to ask investors for cash, pick up market share and enhance their reputation. They have already been shielded from the worst of the crisis and HSBC, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse are expected to be able to pick up market share at better margins, potentially growing revenues at less risk than the dealmaking banks. 'The current environment has encouraged customers to move business to banks that are strongly capitalized and diversified,' said Nick Hill, director of financial services at S&amp;amp;P in London, citing another advantage for these safer banks. These well capitalized banks could also pick up deals, as JPMorgan and Spain's Santander have. The list of banks who haven't strayed too far from a safe strategy and in line to pick up more business should also include France's BNP Paribas, Wells Fargo in the U.S. and Japan's Daiwa Securities, analysts said. Many of the potential 'winners' have a lot of ground to make up, however. The FTSE Global Bank Index has tumbled by a third in the last year. HSBC has dipped 3 percent and JP Morgan is down 5 percent, but Barclays and BofA shares need to rally over 30 percent just to get back to year-ago levels. 
