Wragge &amp;amp; Co and  advise on 381 million cross-border refinancing deal Wragge &amp;amp; Co LLP  and  Project Finance team have advised new client Autocesta Zagreb-Macelj d.o.o. (AZM) on a 381 million refinancing deal. The transaction will enable AZM to refinance its debt, originally incurred to build, operate and maintain the motorway from Zagreb to Macelj on the Slovenian border.AZM is a joint venture between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Pyhrn Concession Holding GmbH, a subsidiary of Strabag S.E. The refinancing was provided by KfW IPEX Bank GmbH, Fortis Bank S.A. / N.V., Banca Infrastrutture Innovazione e Sviluppo S.p.a. and Zagrebacka Banka d.d. as senior mandated lead arrangers. Bank Austria Creditanstalt AG provided a working capital facility. Security on the transaction was taken under English, German and Croatian law.The team was led by Wragge &amp;amp; Co partner Kieron Dwyer and  partner Henrich C. Heggemann. Wragge &amp;amp; Co partner Chris Brierley, director Mark McKee, solicitor Seby Reeves and 's partner Robert Theissen and associate Jon Kohlmann also advised. The team worked closely with AZM director Wolfgang Altmann. Zuric and Partners advised AZM and its lawyers on Croatian law.Kieron Dwyer said: 'This transaction has enabled AZM to quickly secure cheaper financing at a time when there is a serious shortage of liquidity in the finance markets. Complex, multi-jurisdictional and high-value, this deal underlines the firm's commitment to advising, with , on high-quality international work in the project finance sector.'AZM was founded as a joint venture in 2003. It is owned by the Republic of Croatia and Pyhrn Concession Holding GmbH, a subsidiary of Strabag S.E.  has a long-standing relationship with AZM and its parent company. Allen &amp;amp; Overy advised the mandated lead arrangers. Clifford Chance (Frankfurt) advised the original lenders. Laktic and Partners advised Allen &amp;amp; Overy on Croatian law. Paul Hastings Janofsky &amp;amp; Walter (Europe) LLP advised the Government of the Republic of Croatia.Wragge &amp;amp; Co's  handles UK and cross-border deals for lenders, issuers and borrowers. Its project finance, acquisition, debt, asset, leveraged and structured finance specialists work alongside projects, insolvency, finance litigation and securitisation lawyers to deliver a comprehensive, cross-firm finance capability. Clients include HSBC, Barclays and GE Commercial Finance. In April 2008, the firm appointed Kieron Dwyer as a partner to strengthen its project finance offering, particularly in the energy and infrastructure sectors. Hamburg-based 's Projects team advises governments, local authorities, banks concessionaires, sponsors and contractors on large-scale national and international project finance transactions.For further information about this press release, contact Kathryn Hobbs on +44 (0)121 213 2397, Alexa Highfield on +44 (0)121 213 2396 or Michelle Dolphin on +44 (0)121 213 2369  
