The past few weeks have been among the most dramatic in the history of Wall Street, reshaping the financial industry in fundamental ways. The federal government placed mortgage giants Fannie Mae (NYSE:FNM - News) and Freddie Mac (NYSE:FRE - News) in conservatorship and took effective control of insurance giant AIG (NYSE:AIG - News) with an $85 billion loan. Of the four big investment banks remaining after the collapse of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers is now bankrupt, Merrill Lynch (NYSE:MER - News) is being bought by Bank of America (NYSE:BAC - News), and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS - News) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS - News) are morphing into bank holding companies, subjecting themselves to greater capital requirements and regulatory oversight. All this has resulted in the Treasury Department proposing a $700 billion bailout designed to keep the economy from grinding to a halt.  As the crisis has unfolded, we've been looking at how the battered stocks of these Wall Street giants are affecting mutual fund investors. After the government takeover of Fannie and Freddie, we took a look at the funds having the biggest percentage of their portfolio in those two stocks, which have lost most of their value. The news concerning Lehman, AIG, and Merrill similarly prompted us to see which funds had the most exposure to those three stocks, and which had the most exposure to other potentially endangered financials, including Goldman and Morgan Stanley.What about funds that have avoided the whole mess? Morningstar analyst Karin Anderson recently highlighted some funds with lower-than-average financial weightings and above-average returns. We thought it would be interesting to get more specific and look at funds whose most recent portfolio did not include any of the seven troubled giants: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, AIG, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, or Morgan Stanley. Any such list is somewhat arbitrary, as there are plenty of financial stocks that have also been punished badly, but this one is sort of a mirror image of our lists of funds with the biggest exposure to those same seven stocks.Even if we limit ourselves to diversified large-cap funds, there are almost 600 funds with no investment in the seven stocks. The following table shows the 10 largest, with each fund's category, the size of its asset base, the date of its most recent portfolio, its year-to-date return as of September 25, and its percentile ranking within its category.Click here to view the table. http://news.morningstar.com/articlenet/article.aspx?id=254249Several of these funds have done quite well this year in relative terms, notably Fairholme (NASDAQ:FAIRX - News). That fund is actually overweight in financials relative to its category and the S&amp;amp;P 500, but the managers specifically avoided the likes of Lehman Brothers and AIG because of those firms' exposure to the complex derivatives that eventually took them down. Of the other funds on the list, several have little or no financial exposure in general, and CGM Focus (NASDAQ:CGMFX - News) even has short positions in a number of financial stocks, though it has been pummeled recently by its huge energy and basic-materials stakes. Calamos Growth (NASDAQ:CVGRX - News) and Columbia Marsico 21st Century (NASDAQ:NMTAX - News) have done poorly this year because of their focus on traditional growth stocks, which have been hurt over fears about the economy.It's not too surprising to see growth and blend funds avoiding prominent financial stocks, but it's more unusual for value funds, which tend to be heavy in financials. Only about 90 large-value funds have completely avoided our seven stocks, as opposed to nearly 500 large-blend and large-growth funds. The following table shows the 10 largest, which are much smaller as a group than the funds in the first table. (Because these are all large-value funds, there's no need to show each fund's category.)Click here to view the table. http://news.morningstar.com/articlenet/article.aspx?id=254249These funds have done better on the whole than the funds in the broader first group, in both absolute and relative terms. That's not too surprising, given that valuation-conscious funds of all stripes have generally done much better than speculative, growth-oriented funds in this market.Most of these funds haven't gone out of their way to avoid financials in general; whereas six of 10 funds on our first list have financial weightings under 10%, that's only true of two funds on this list, and one of those, Muhlenkamp (NASDAQ:MUHLX - News), is the worst performer of the lot. Rather, most of these funds focus on dividend-paying stocks with low valuations, strong cash flows, and strong balance sheets, and that's what helped them avoid most of the financial meltdown. For example, Sound Shore (NASDAQ:SSHFX - News) and Pioneer Equity Income (NASDAQ:PEQIX - News) are among the category's best performers despite having almost 20% of their portfolios in financials, but the financials they do own are mainly insurers and retail banks with rock-solid balance sheets. Principal Equity Income (NASDAQ:PQIAX - News) is overweight in financials relative to the category, but comanager Dave Simpson has specifically avoided the investment banks and other dicey financials like AIG and Wachovia (NYSE:WB - News), and the fund has benefited from smart stock picks such as Wal-Mart (NYSE:WMT - News) and Union Pacific (NYSE:UNP - News).A few of these funds, despite avoiding the highest-profile financial blowups, have suffered in other ways; Muhlenkamp, for example, has taken big hits from such prominent holdings as Terex (NYSE:TEX - News) and UnitedHealth (NYSE:UNH - News). For the most part, avoiding the worst of the financial mess has helped these funds, but that avoidance is just one part of a discipline and value focus that has worked especially well in the current environment.David Kathman, CFA does not own shares in any of the securities mentioned above.
