Research and Markets has announced the addition of the 'The Top Ten Global Retail Banks: Positioning, Performance and SWOT Analyses' report to its offerings. In a release, Research and Markets noted that report highlights include: Key questions answered by this report... - Which are the key trends in the global retail banking industry? - Who are the top 10 retail banks in the market and who ranks 11 to 20? - What are the strategies that are driving the revenue and market share of the retail banks? - How do the retail banks compare in terms of financial and operational performance? - What is the market share of each global bank? - What is the future outlook for the retail banking industry? This new report will provide you with... - Strategic profiles of the ten largest global retail banks providing SWOT analyses, highlighting examples of best practice, analyzing the strategies driving their growth and indicating any potential problems they could face in the future. - Analysis of the financial performance of the world's retail banks based on financial and operational performance by business segment from 2003-2007. - Comparative analysis of the top ten retail banks in terms of revenue growth, revenue per branch operating margins, and geographical coverage. - Snapshots of key retail banks outside the top 10 providing market shares, revenues, employees, business segments and detailing financial performance between 2003-2007. The global retail banking market valued $3,026bn in 2007, with the top 10 banks representing about 19.8 percent of this total. The US subprime mortgage crisis, expansion of direct and online banking and cross-border consolidation are the main forces affecting retail banking at present. The Top Ten Global Retail Banks: Positioning, performance and SWOT analyses is a new report that examines market dynamics in the retail banking sector focusing on the top ten retail banks. This new report highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the top ten banks, analyzes the reasons behind the growth of their businesses and indicates any potential problems they could face in the short term. Through analysis and forecasts, this report provides insight into the direction of the retail banking market. Assess the world's retail banks, anticipate future trends and enhance your competitive strategies with this new report. This new report will enable you to... - Create more effective competitive strategies based on the financial and SWOT analyses of the top ten global retail banks detailed in this report. - Benchmark your performance against retail banks with this report's ranking of the top ten retail banks, their financial performance and market share by company and category. - Identify and target future growth areas from this report's analysis of the acquisitions and divestments made by retail banks and their strategies for growth. - Understand the key issues in the retail banking sector and the impact that they are expected to have on the market using this report's assessment of the subprime crisis, US credit card debt, cross-border consolidation and rising interest rates. Companies mentioned: - Barclays - Credit Agricole - Business segments - UniCredit - Washington Mutual - Bank of China - HBOS - Rabobank Report information: http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/805f8a/the-top-ten-global (Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com) (Distributed on behalf of 10Meters via M2 Communications Ltd - http://www.m2.com) (10Meters - http://www.10meters.com) 
