Shares in Macquarie Group Ltd, Australia's largest investment bank, have plunged more than 23 per cent to a near five and a half year low Thursday amid ongoing concerns that the Australia's biggest investment bank could have trouble refinancing debt. The fall comes despite ratings agency Moody's Investors Service affirming the group's its stable outlook and credit ratings. Macquarie's shares closed down $7.88, or 23.22 per cent, to $26.05, its worst close since April, 2003, when it hit $25.08. The stock was one of a number of financial companies suffering falls Thursday that caused to Australian stock market to fall by about 2.5 per cent. Macquarie shares have lost 38 per cent of their value this week, after the collapse of US investment bank Lehman Brothers and the US government takeover of insurance giant American International Group (AIG) stoked investor fears about holding stock in companies that carry considerable debt. 'The direction of Macquarie's share price is telling us Macquarie is irrevocably broken,' JPMorgan analysts Brian Johnson, Scott Manning and David Disney-Willis wrote in a note to clients. 'In this environment, with the hedge funds driving the agenda, it is hard to identify a catalyst to turn Macquarie's price direction around, but we note that massive binges of short selling in Macquarie have previously been followed by commensurate bouts of short covering.' The analysts said hedge funds were concerned that Macquarie would have trouble funding itself. Mr Johnson and his colleagues argue that Macquarie's requirement for funds to be met from external sources in the next year is about $14 billion, compared with Macquarie's total funding requirement of $46 billion. Much of the requirement will be covered by cash and liquid assets that the bank already holds. JPMorgan has an 'overweight' rating on Macquarie and has a share price target of $71.58 at June 2009. Responding to a query from the Australian Securities Exchange, Macquarie said Thursday that it was not aware of any information that it had not already announced to the market that might have caused the shares to fall over past days. 'Until there is greater confidence around Macquarie's ability to refinance its term funding, investors are likely to remain cautious on the stock,' Goldman Sachs JBWere analysts James Freeman, Ben Koo and Elizabeth Rogers wrote in a note to clients. They rate the bank a 'hold' and have a 12 month share price target of $40.09. Moody's affirmed its A2 long term and Prime-1 short term credit ratings on Macquarie, with a stable outlook. 'Macquarie Group's stable rating outlook reflects its very strong liquidity and capital positions, and its minimal exposure to troubled asset classes and counterparties,' Moody's analyst Patrick Winsbury said in a statement. Wednesday, ratings agency Standard &amp;amp; Poor's revised its outlook on Macquarie to negative from stable, but reaffirmed the group's A long term and A-1 short term ratings. 'The financial and business fundamentals of the Macquarie Group are unlikely to be materially affected by the current dislocation in financial markets,' S&amp;amp;P said. But the agency revised the outlook down due to the risk pose by the current financial market turmoil. Read Tony Boyd's take on Macquarie here:  
