 The Commonwealth Bank's M&amp;amp;A guru, Ian Narev, has two of the essential characteristics for being on chief executive Ralph Norris's senior leadership team: he is smart and he is a Kiwi. With those attributes, and the backing of the CBA's capital strength and record high P/E premium relative to its peers, Narev has become the go-to man for investment bankers wanting to do a deal in financial services. Narev was the bank's spokesman for the acquisition of a 33 per cent shareholding in John Symond's Aussie. While that deal was small beer in the scheme of things at CBA it showed the bank's appetite for expansion. The Aussie deal gave investors and the public a rare view of the man given responsibility for developing CBA's strategic direction. Narev joined CBA last year after nine years with McKinsey and Co, including a stint in New York during the dotcom boom and two years as head of its New Zealand practice. He reports to Norris and the CBA board. Narev would be familiar with the main reasons, put forward by Goldman Sachs JBWere analyst James Freeman, why CBA will make further acquisitions. Freeman, in a just released report, says CBA is trading at a 23 per cent premium to its peers, has a relatively high Tier I capital ratio of 7.58 per cent and a funding advantage from its AA credit rating. Also, the current environment has made more assets available at more attractive prices. Freeman has speculated that CBA will make acquisitions to fix an existing business such as business banking, augment an already strong position such as wealth management or expand into a new business in Asia. He says CBA can acquire a business up to $1.3 billion or $2.4 billion without the need for raising capital. He reckons CBA could comfortably buy a business for $1 billion and achieve EPS accretion in the first year of ownership. He is dismissive of the Aussie acquisition as an investment with no management control, little strategic rationale and potential for damage to Aussie's brand as an independently managed friend of the consumer. After canvassing various potential targets such as BankWest and Suncorp, he concludes that, with the combination of acquisition risk and the stock being overpriced, CBA deserves a sell rating. Whether CBA is a sell or a buy, it is obvious that the bank is on the acquisition trail. It looked hard at buying ABN Amro for a reported $440 million but walked away after concerns over the funding of its $10 billion balance sheet. The ABN Amro exercise showed CBA was prepared to look at businesses that are strong in the structured finance and brokerage space. That has prompted some investment bankers to speculate that Challenger Financial Services could be a potential target. It has good product manufacturing credentials that would benefit from the CBA's distribution network. It is also trading at a heavy discount to net assets. Turning to retail banking, CBA has closely examined the possibility of buying BankWest from the troubled British bank HBOS. But apparently HBOS will only contemplate selling its entire Australian business, which includes BankWest, Capital Finance, St Andrew's and BOS International. There is also a local Bank of Scotland Treasury branch. CBA does not want to buy assets that may be fraught with potential bad debt problems. Freeman raises the possibility of it buying Bendigo Bank, but the culture differences are so great that it's hard to see how CBA could retain the customer base. The Suncorp takeover option has been mentioned many times before. It is being put forward again because Suncorp is now trading at its lowest level in five years as it struggles to digest Promina. The Suncorp speculation is usually in the context of a discussion about who would buy the general insurance business. That usually leads to the conclusion that it would be too complicated to complete a $12 billion transaction in partnership with someone else, particularly someone as finicky as QBE's Frank O'Halloran. Investment bankers say CBA would have to fund the entire deal rather than go into the transaction with a partner. That would be a cleaner option but still very messy. A further complication for a Suncorp takeover would be confronting the Queensland factor. The parochial community and political interests north of the NSW border would make a hostile bid almost possible. An agreed deal would be left vulnerable to sectional interests in the nine months required to get a scheme of arrangement through the normal hurdles. In wealth management, potential targets include AXA and AMP at the high end, Perpetual in the middle ground, and IOOF at the lower end. Each has its own unique attractions and difficulties. As Freeman argues in his report, CBA will avoid capital-intensive businesses and anything that adds unnecessary funding pressures, especially considering it will have to roll over about $25 billion to $30 billion in term funding in 2009. Whether or not a major transaction goes ahead, there is plenty to keep Narev and his CBA strategy team busy. 
