BRITISH Energy chief executive Bill Coley and EDF's Pierre Gadonneix were undoubtedly relieved and pleased by the close of business on Wednesday, having formally announced EDF's long-awaited acquisition of BE without any list-minute hitches. Few, if any, would have forgotten that Coley and his counterpart at French-owned EDF had been down this road before. Well-laid plans to announce a 12bn deal collapsed spectacularly at the end of July when Invesco Perpetual, British Energy's biggest shareholder, balked at the 11th hour.Not so this time around, as Gadonneix had ensured that Invesco and other major investors were locked in to an improved offer that will see EDF take over the vast bulk of the UK's nuclear generating capacity. As a result, the French energy giant will be at the forefront of a new era of nuclear construction in the UK.'For EDF, this is a historic milestone in our strategic development plans in Europe,' Gadonneix told journalists.EDF, which is 85%-owned by the French government, hopes to build at least four nuclear plants in the UK to begin replacing British Energy's ageing portfolio of reactors. It has also agreed to sell certain properties to other companies that are likewise keen to enter the British nuclear market.Assuming the takeover is given regulatory approval, EDF expects subsequently to sell a 25% stake in its British Energy subsidiary to Centrica, the parent company of utility providers Scottish Gas and British Gas. Such a move would give Centrica direct access to supplies and help cushion it from volatile price swings in the wholesale energy market.Analysts say the deal is positive for all of the companies involved. It is also a rare moment of triumph for the embattled Labour Government, which controls 35% of British Energy's shares. UK ministers have heavily backed the bid from EDF, which they see as an opportunity to kick-start construction of new nuclear plants that will provide much-needed energy within EC constraints for lowering CO2 emissions.EDF already has 5.5 million customers in the UK served by its EDF Energy subsidiary. However, there is little overlap with British Energy's operations, as EDF's UK assets include two coal-fired power stations and one gas-fired unit, but no nuclear reactors.The main areas of replication are in finance and administration, which takes in most of the 200 jobs at British Energy's current headquarters in East Kilbride. Staff there were briefed on Wednesday, but there was no discussion as to how British Energy's business would be run under EDF ownership. It is thought those details will not be thrashed out until the operations are formally merged.Nonetheless, the mood both at headquarters and across the rest of BE's 5,800 employees has been described as upbeat.'They need us,' said one person who attended the staff briefing in East Kilbride. 'They have made it very clear that they need our staff and our expertise.'That thing where you meet the new boss and then think you'd better go clear your desk  this doesn't feel like one of those moments.'A spokesman for EDF in London said he could not elaborate further upon plans for the East Kilbride office, other than to confirm what has already been announced to the Stock Exchange. Analysts have attached widely varying values to BE's stock in recent weeks, ranging from 650p per share to 900p or more. Weighing against a higher valuation is the advancing age of British Energy's 10 nuclear power stations, making them prone to unscheduled maintenance and repair. What EDF prizes is the land owned by the UK nuclear operator, as it is far easier to build new reactors on existing sites where residents are already accustomed to living near a nuclear station.'It is very hard to put a cost on British Energy, and that has been the reason why these negotiations have been so protracted,' said Tina Cook, utilities analyst with Charles Stanley. 'Is it a fair price or not? It is difficult to say, but it was the only offer that was there.'Though Centrica had at one point nurtured ambitions for its own merger with British Energy, the Government was concerned that Centrica had neither the cash nor the nuclear expertise to build new plants. By contrast, EDF has 58 nuclear plants producing three-quarters of France's electricity, and revenues in the region of ?60bn. Concerned about provoking EDF's ire, Centrica entered into a standstill agreement with the French firm on May 7, effectively dropping any pursuit of British Energy.However, Centrica's consolation prize is quite attractive: if all goes to plan, it will pay about 3.1bn for a 25% stake in the new British Energy, giving it access to one-quarter of output from the existing nuclear fleet. It will also get the option to take a 25% stake in the new power stations EDF plans to build.Centrica, which has about 16 million gas and electricity customers across the UK, only owns enough power plants and gas fields to meet about one-third of its demand. The rest must be purchased on the open market, leaving Centrica heavily exposed to surges in wholesale prices that have cut its operating margins and led to eye-watering price hikes for customers.The deal to take on electricity from British Energy would increase Centrica's direct access to about 40% of demand. Although the company needs to further build up its access to gas  it paid $375m to Marathon Oil for Norwegian gas assets earlier this year  it is getting closer to its target of 50%.'In a sense you could argue that it will be beneficial for customers,' Cook said. Though price cuts are unlikely, this additional insulation from the wholesale market could either delay or reduce the amount of future increases charged to Centrica customers, particularly if supplies tighten during the winter.Such a scenario looks likely. Network manager National Grid has warned that surplus power supplies this winter could be as low as 2.5% of consumption. With so little spare capacity, the loss of any one of the UK's 15 largest power stations at a time of peak demand would force factories to shut down, triggering a surge in wholesale costs.While Centrica customers may benefit, the impending takeover of British Energy has raised concerns for the broader consumer population. After the deal is completed, there will be just two independent suppliers left in the UK, further increasing reliance on foreign sources. Consumer groups have also pointed out that foreign-owned firms don't treat all customers the same. In July, EDF Energy raised its UK prices by 22%. Back in France, the government limited increases to no more than 5%.'Closed and protectionist European energy markets can end up picking the pocket of consumers up and down this country,' said Ed Mayo, incoming chief executive of the new 'super watchdog' agency Consumer Focus. Though he was not referring specifically to EDF, he undoubtedly had such a scenario in mind when he made that statement in the days after his appointment was announced.While the nuclear element has turned the subject of foreign ownership of BE into a politically sensitive topic, the fact remains that a growing amount of the UK's energy is supplied by firms based abroad. ScottishPower was sold to Iberdrola in 2006, while Germany's EON and RWE have been active in the market for a number of years through their respective purchases of Powergen and NPower. Following the sale of British Energy, Centrica will be the last major energy company based in the UK.In Scotland, short-term political sensitivities will focus on any developments at East Kilbride. Longer term, questions are being asked about the SNP's insistence that nuclear power should be allowed to fade from the country's energy supply mix.EDF's outline of sites for development and disposal mentioned neither Torness in East Lothian nor Hunterston B in Ayrshire. Hunterston is due for decommissioning in 2016, followed by Torness in 2023, but the SNP-led Scottish Government remains adamant that no new nuclear stations will be built in this country.'We have to recognise what the policy is for Scotland, don't we?' said a source familiar with EDF. 'We will see how things develop in the years to come, but for now we have to respect the policy.'CBI Scotland has been one of the most vocal proponents on the need for continued nuclear plant capacity north of the border. The organisation argues that it is wrong to rule out the creation of new nuclear capacity that is tested, viable and currently accounting for about one third of Scotland's generating capacity.Despite the current situation in Scotland, the CBI's assistant director David Lonsdale says the acquisition of British Energy is a vote of confidence in both the company and the UK's broader nuclear build programme. His main concern was the loss of another prominent corporate HQ from the country so soon after the takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB.'We need to constantly review whether enough is being done to attract companies to locate in Scotland, but particularly whether we are doing enough to grow the next generation of large Scots-headquartered firms,' he says.
