 Australia's $64 billion Future Fund is unlikely to reduce its asset allocation in shares, despite the volatility in global equity markets, and is seeking further investments in the banking sector.Chairman David Murray said also criticised the equity market practice of short selling, which was this week temporarily banned by regulators in a bid to reduce volatility in the local share market. 'It's a practice of which I have a serious aversion to,' he said ahead of the two-day Sovereign Wealth Funds conference due to commence in Sydney on Thursday.Mr Murray said the Future Fund did not engage in short selling, which allows investors, particularly hedge funds, to make money from falling shares prices by borrowing shares from others. 'I don't understand, as an institutional investor, why you'd lend your money to someone ... to have them trash it and give it back to you. 'It's like your son says to you 'Dad, can I borrow your car? Don't worry it will be alright when I give it back'.' Mr Murray also said the fund's long-term view on shares investment remained, despite the current volatility in financial markets, 'I imagine within Australian equities there would be an investment somewhere in a bad equity,' he said. 'I'm sure we'll have a bad year. 'The prevailing sentiment is that the situation in the United States is quite weak and that it will be a difficult environment for equities ... but the long-term focus we have means that shouldn't matter to us. 'One thing we need not to is chop and change those allocations.' The Future Fund was set up in 2006 to pay the previously uncovered liabilities of public service superannuation.As at June 30 this year, it held assets of $64.181 billion, including a $8.522 billion investment in Telstra.Cash assets worth $34.574 billion make up 62.1 per cent of the Future Fund, excluding Telstra.It has $9.795 billion invested global equities, making up 17.6 per cent, and $5.141 billion in Australian shares, worth, constituting 9.2 per cent of its asset allocations.Mr Murray said he wanted the Future Fund to diversify out of cash. 'What we are concerned about is the buy-in price of portfolios as we keep transitioning out of heavy cash allocation into our long-term strategic asset allocation,' he said. 'Our main concern is at what stage do you move into the asset classes we've identified and are the buy-in prices acceptable.' Mr Murray, a former Commonwealth Bank of Australia chief executive, said the Future Fund was particularly interested in local banks because of their strong fundamentals. 'We continue to be interested in banks because the Australian banks are in good shape, the yields are fantastic,' he said. 'When you're sitting on cash, partly intentionally and partly because of the build-up of our investments, you get that opportunity you don't let it go.' Mr Murray said low interest rates in the United States had been a factor in the current global financial market crisis. 'What's happened is there's been easy monetary policy for a long time, which has caused financial assets around the world to be bought at very high prices, and that has to be unwound,' he said. 'Part of the high returns to assets has been caused by super-leveraging of assets, and that also has to be unwound.' Meanwhile, Reserve Bank of Australia board member and Australian National University economics professor Warwick McKibbin said the Future Fund should copy the Norwegian sovereign wealth pension fund, which takes in surplus wealth from the nation's petroleum income. 'Before the last election I made the argument that we need a Norwegian-style fund,' he said. 'We want our resources to be channelled, not just through the fiscal position, but with the surpluses into the Future Fund. 'All we get from the Future Fund is, really, the surpluses that are coming from the fiscal position after the government has already given out the largesse to the various constituencies, and I would rather see something directly lead to a revenue source.' 'There's the Russian model where a specific amount over a certain price of oil per barrel goes into the fund.' The Future Fund, ex-Telstra, produced a return of 1.54 per cent, or $652 million, in the 2007/08 financial year.As a sovereign wealth fund, the Future Fund is smaller than Singapore's Temasek Holdings group, which has $161 billion in funds under management, but is a similar size to the Qatar Investment Authority, worth an estimated $70 billion.
