Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley Alex Potter, banks analyst at the broker Collins Stewart, said B&amp;amp;B's crisis could be traced back to its 'risk appetite' on mortgage lending and an attempt 'to replicate Northern Rock's disastrous funding model'. Northern Rock was bailed out by the Bank of England last September after the wholesale markets, from where the nationalised lender drew three quarters of its funding, shut down. 'B&amp;amp;B clearly looked at the Northern Rock model and decided to follow it to a lesser degree,' Mr Potter said. After Northern Rock and HBOS, which agreed a cut-price rescue a fortnight ago by Lloyds TSB, B&amp;amp;B is the British bank most exposed to the money markets with a ratio of loans to customer deposits of 167pc. However, the bank has stressed it has funding in place until 2009. The banks problems have been worsened by its reliance on non-traditional mortgages buy-to-let and self-certification, where the applicant's details are not checked. As house prices have fallen, B&amp;amp;B bad lending practices have been exposed. The proportion of lenders three months or more behind on their mortgage payments was 2.87pc in June double the industry average. Of particular concern has been an acquired book 8bn of mortgages that B&amp;amp;B bought from other lenders, on which the problem loan levels have hit 5.72pc. Mr Potter said: 'This was an incredibly bull-market contract and it's clearly working against them now.' B&amp;amp;B, formed in 1964 from the merger of the Bradford Equitable and Bingley building societies both of which traced their own histories back to 1851, sowed its problems in converting from a cautious building society to a listed bank in 2000, which came with the high returns demanded by shareholders. As well as using a more aggressive funding model, it jettisoned traditional mortgage lending in the pursuit of better profits in buy-to-let, a market in which it became the leader with a fifth of all home loans. Buy-to-let as a business model has only been in full swing for a decade and never been tested in a recession, which has concerned many in the City. Mr Potter said: ' My concern is that in a downturn, buy-to-let doesn't have the backing of a family wanting to stay in the house they live in. It seems super-cyclical.' 
