Dow Jones The Bank of England is expected to propose a new permanent emergency financing facility for troubled banks when it publishes a consultation paper on reforms to its liquidity operations this week. The facility will likely be designed to allow the central bank to secretly help banks which are having trouble financing themselves in the interbank money markets, say traders and analysts in the know. They also believe it will allow these banks to borrow money against hard-to-sell assets through securities repurchase agreements, or repos, once the Bank of England's special liquidity scheme (SLS) expires October 21. The SLS, which was introduced in April, allows banks to swap illiquid instruments, such as mortgage-backed securities, for Treasury bills which can then easily be swapped for cash in the interbank markets. 'The Bank of England could potentially offer a facility which would aid a bank having short-term cash flow issues, perhaps by making a three-month facility available for emergency use at a penal rate by appointment and completely anonymously,' said Rob Verrillo, a sterling money market trader at Royal Bank of Scotland. Bank of England governor Mervyn King said last week the central bank would publish its consultation paper on reforms to its liquidity operations by the end of this week. He said the bank will incorporate a permanent facility offering liquidity insurance. The Bank's current permanent liquidity operations include a standing facility to lend cash overnight and operations to lend cash for up to a year against only very high quality collateral through repo agreements. It publishes the amounts lent through these facilities. But the bank was forced to introduce big temporary changes to its lending framework over the past year in response to the developing credit crunch. It will now want to incorporate those lessons into a new liquidity framework so it can deal with future crises more quickly and discreetly, say traders. In September last year, the Bank had to announce a special cash facility for mortgage lender Northern Rock which allowed the bank to borrow cash against a wider range of assets than allowed in its existing liquidity operations. The announcement triggered the first run on a UK bank for 150 years and ended up with the government taking control of the company. One of the problems with the bank's current liquidity framework its that its standing lending facility, which allows banks to access overnight funds at a penalty interest rate, became stigmatised last year. Barclays saw its share price plummet in August last year on fears it had run into financing difficulties after it had twice used this facility to borrow cash. The central bank publishes each day the amount it lent through the facility the previous day although it doesn't reveal who to. This information was enough, however, to prompt a witch hunt in the markets to identify who had tapped the facility. Barclays later issued a statement explaining it had needed to access these funds simply because it had encountered technical problems in settling UK securities which caused unexpected financing needs. No bank has used the facility since for fear its reputation will be similarly tarnished. As a result, some money market traders say the Bank of England will want to operate the new emergency liquidity insurance facility separately from the standing lending facility which is normally used by banks when settlement processes fail or are delayed. 'I think the Bank needs to rehabilitate the standing facility,' said the head of money markets at one UK bank. 'The biggest problem with the standing facility is that it could be used for technical purposes but it was also the facility where you could go if you had a major liquidity problem.' The bank will need to keep its lending through the new facility secret to avoid stigmatising it, say traders. But some say the bank could also make the existing standing facility more attractive by keeping its use secret and reducing the penalty rate charged for using it, which currently stands at 100 basis points above the base rate. 'I also think the Bank could change the way the standing facility operates in order to ensure its anonymity and also to remove the stigma attached, where there never used to be one, by changing the wording surrounding it - thereby making it a more usable instrument of monetary policy,' said Verrillo. The Bank of England has also learned the lesson that, when certain assets become unfundable in the interbank market, it needs to take these assets temporarily in return for cash. The SLS works on this principle and the Bank also widened the collateral it would accept against several special three-month repos in December last year to include such assets as mortgage-backed securities. Traders say the bank is, therefore, likely to incorporate a broader range of collateral into its new permanent insurance facility. 'The Bank may choose to broaden the collateral requirements although I don't think they will go too far down the credit curve and will remain very conservative in what they will accept,' said the UK bank head of money market trading. Some analysts say the Bank will want to attach high charges for accepting riskier assets, through haircuts, to avoid financing banks' longer-term business. Haircuts reduce the value of a bond when used to cover cash lending to take account of its riskiness. 'I think the Bank of England might widen the collateral for longer-term operations but at suitably large haircuts,' said Ralf Preusser, head of European rates strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. 'The Bank's aim is to make sure that Northern Rock doesn't happen again rather than to replace long-term market financing.' 
