The world's leading central banks tried again to ease the growing stress in the world's money markets yesterday with coordinated action to provide $180bn (100bn) in extra liquidity.The US Federal Reserve announced that the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, the Swiss National Bank and the Bank of Canada would provide extra funding. The collapse of the investment bank Lehman Brothers, the takeover of Merrill Lynch and the nationalisation of the United States insurance giant AIG this week has made banks unwilling to lend to each other, leading to an acute shortage of funds in dollar markets.Banks need dollars to keep trading so the Fed, in effect, lent other central banks huge amounts of the currency so that they could pump extra liquidity into markets in Europe, Asia and North America.Cash-strapped commercial banks scrambled to take up the money and, for a while at least, the move seemed to do the trick, as overnight inter-bank lending rates in London, known as Libor, fell back in the daily fixing announced late morning. However, the interest rate for three-month dollar funds rose to its highest since January as banks still refused to lend money to each other longer than overnight. But while stockmarkets rose for a while on the news, the rally later petered out and analysts warned that any relief could be brief. 'Funding had to be added ... but will it encourage lending and an end to the ossification of the money market? Until that happens in all major markets we will be locked into a market as unpredictable as a rabid hound,' warned Stephen Pope, a strategist at broker Cantor Fitzgerald.The Fed said in a statement that the move was 'designed to address the continued elevated pressures in US dollar short-term funding markets.' It added: 'These measures, together with other actions taken in the last few days by individual central banks, are designed to improve the liquidity conditions in global financial markets. The central banks continue to work together closely and will take appropriate steps to address the ongoing pressures.' The Bank of England is making $40bn available, with the ECB increasing its funding by $55bn and the Swiss National Bank offering $15bn. The Bank of Japan will lend $60bn; the Bank of Canada $10bn.In a separate response to the crisis, Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev said the country would spend up to 500bn roubles (10.9bn) to stabilise its market. The Russian stockmarkets remained closed for a second day. 'The single biggest priority right now is to prevent a run on the banks,' explained Chris Weafer, chief strategist at brokerage Uralsib.
