Share rout provides opportunity for bargain-hunting Investors need to be smart, stick to simple principles  FALLING share markets can wipe out billions of dollars in shareholder value, but they can also provide opportunities to snap up bargains.NEWS.com.au takes a look at where brave investors should look if they're on the hunt for bargains.Take a look at banksMuch of Wall St's woes stem from concerns about its financial services sector.Wall St was battered after , investment bank Merrill Lynch sold itself to Bank of America and the world's largest insurance company . But looking locally, Joe Youssef, corporate services manager for CMC Markets thinks Australian banks offer 'outstanding value' at the moment. He says NAB (nab.ASX:Quote,News) is selling at prices not seen for over a decade. 'If you look at our retail banks, a lot of the bad news is priced in that's already been released but they've priced in even further bad news.' By noon today, Commonwealth Bank (cba.ASX:Quote,News) was down $1.04, or 2.48 per cent to $40.94, NAB had lost $1.06, or 4.65 per cent, to $21.76, while ANZ (anz.ASX:Quote,News) had dropped 95 cents, or 5.63 per cent to $15.92. Westpac (wbc.ASX:Quote,News) had fallen 52 cents, or 2.25 per cent, to $22.63 and its takeover target St George (sgb.ASX:Quote,News) was down 93 cents, or 3.07 per cent, to $29.41.Mr Youssef is not so keen on investment banks, like Macquarie Group: 'In this environment I'd still think very dangerous to be playing there'. 'That doesn't mean there's not value there, but there's lingering doubt about just how well they're going to withstand the final upshot of this credit fiasco because let's face it, what's happening now is going to change the credit landscape globally forever.' Macquarie Group (mqg.ASX:Quote,News) fell $2.85, or 7.22 per cent, to $36.61, while Babcock &amp;amp; Brown (bnb.ASX:Quote,News) lost 70 cents, or 44.3 per cent, to 88 cents by midday.Rout 'not such a bad thing'Elio D'Amato, chief executive of share analytics firm Lincoln Indicators, doesn't think the falling share market is necessarily a bad thing. 'We think this cleanout is desperately needed,' he told news.com.au. 'We can't help but think feel there's deep value in the market that has been unfairly hit by the flow-on effect of the credit crisis.' Mr D'Amato said once the companies that have been badly hit by the credit crunch are cleared out of the market, healthy companies will become more apparent.Mr D'Amato said investors looking for bargains need to be smart, and stick to simple investment principles. Here are his top tips: Identity healthy businesses - companies that are profitable, efficient and have good strong cash flow. Look for earnings growth. Check the balance sheets - steer clear of companies that are over-committed on the debt front. Cheap doesn't mean bargain - 'Don't try to catch a falling dagger,' Mr D'Amato said. A company that has historically enjoyed high prices is not a bargain just because it's suddenly fallen into single digits. Look at the fundamentals and work out what's behind the fall. A low share price isn't a bargain if the stock is a dog. Look local and resilient - focus on businesses that don't rely on economic factors and instead produce things that are always in demand. Overall the local economy looks in better shape than the US economy, so Mr D'Amato suggests focusing on companies with Australian operations, rather than businesses that have a big exposure to the US.Know when to hold 'em, know when to walk away...Mr D'Amato disagrees with the common refrain that share price falls only become losses when you sell. If you've got a stock that's underperforming and the company isn't in good shape, he advocates selling even if it means realising a loss.
