While the US government is trying to push through a $700 billion bailout package, the fallout of the collapse of marquee names in the US financial services sector spells trouble for the export-dependent Indian software sector.Geographically, the sector gets over half of its revenues from the US, and based on verticals, a third of the total revenues flow from the BFSI segment. If the systemic financial collapse affects sentiment and growth of other sectors, then the IT sector could well face its toughest times since its many years.The events of Wall Street have not escaped the attention of investors on Dalal Street who have hammered the IT scrips. The BSE IT index has underperformed the BSE Sensex over the last one year, with the former declining 30.3 per cent as against Sensexs decline of 23.6 per cent.In the last 15 days too, the IT index was down 15 per cent as compared to the Sensexs decline of just 6.4 per cent. Notably, this underperformance comes even as the Indian rupee has seen a decline in its value against the US dollar in the recent past.To know how these various developments are likely to impact the sector and companies, and what can be expected over the next one year, The Smart Investor spoke to various industry and investment experts.Most IT companies, however, did not offer any comment citing silent period before quarterly results. To know more on the sector and companies, read on.The immediate blowExperts feel that Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), which gets 43.6 per cent from the BFSI segment and is estimated to be generating about 3.5 per cent of its total revenues from Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and AIG, would be the most affected.Among the other notable exposures to these troubled financial institutions, it is estimated that each, Infosys and Satyam, earn about two per cent of their total revenues from AIG and Merrill Lynch, while Wipros exposure to Lehman Brothers is estimated to be about half a per cent.Indian tech firms might not be too affected by the exposure to these institutions. But, it is the indirect impact on growth trajectory of the technology service providers, that is worrying, asserts Viju George, analyst, Edelweiss Securities.Nevertheless, until the companies spell out the numbers (which should hopefully come out with their Q2 results), the markets will have little option but to keep guessing the quantum of skeletons.Demand slowdownThe Indian IT vendors have been facing challenging times as a result of uncertainty in the US and Europe for well over a year now.Six months after Bear Sterns went under and was acquired by JP Morgan, the latest series of events in the US financial sector would further slow down the demand for IT services. Expect the $1-1.5 billion that Lehman Brothers typically spends on its IT networks annually, to be cut by at least half as its bidder, Barclays, tries to rationalise and reduce overlaps.Explains Som Mittal, president of the domestic software industry body, National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom), In IT budgets, the non-discretionary spend, which is about 70 per cent, will continue. In a downturn, discretionary spend on new projects, innovation or upgradation gets affected. The impact, if any, will be on the latter.Unfortunately, the economic slowdown has been catching up with the other verticals as well, namely telecom, retail and manufacturing, especially the automobile segment.According to A Balasubramaniam, CIO, Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, who also oversees the IT-specific Millenium Fund, some of the damage control measures by the US may make matters worse for Indian IT companies.Mortgage companies like Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and now AIG getting nationalised is bad news for the Indian IT companies as the outsourcing could be reduced due to political interests.Europe no differentAmericas transatlantic cousin, too, has a few problems of its own. Experts are of the opinion that markets in the UK and Spain could be the next to collapse as real estate prices have been on the decline.Companies like UBS and Deutsche Bank have already reduced their IT budgets, says an analyst with a domestic broking house. The situation is not as bad as the US, but that is hardly any consolation. Europe is clearly showing signs of slowdown, especially large economies such as the UK and Germany. They could very easily get into a recessionary phase, believes Gaurav Dua, head of research, Sharekhan.Among large American and European companies surveyed by IT consulting firm Forrester Research in September, a full 43 per cent have cut their overall spending on technology products and services in 2008. And, this was before the collapse of Lehman Brothers.Competition to increaseIT companies maintain that they arent really feeling the pricing pressure yet. There have been sporadic cases where the client has come back to us, to renegotiate the prices. But, on the whole, the pricing discipline is intact, confirmed a CFO of one of Indias largest IT companies.But, analysts believe that sales cycles are bound to get longer and it is a matter of time, before the companies feel the pricing pinch too. With consolidation taking place in the US financial sector at the moment, competition is likely to further increase between IT vendors.Take for instance Bank of America (BoA), which would need two sets of IT vendors after buying out Merrill Lynch. Analysts say that BoA is an important client for Infosys, which places the latter in a relatively advantageous position compared to TCS and Satyam, which were IT outsourcing partners for Merrill Lynch.The silver liningThe conversion of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley into regulated commercial banks from brokerage houses could be a blessing in disguise. That is because commercial banks are bigger spenders on IT than investment banks.Commercial banks have a list of statutory provisions and compliance requirements to adhere to. This has been the highest spending areas for banks for the last couple of years. So, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley could bring more business to IT companies, pointed out an analyst. Tech firms, too, are harping on the now clichd argument that the current financial mess will provide an impetus to outsourcing as the BFSI majors are forced to cut costs and improve efficiencies.Experts, however, opine that this will come with a lag. Anurag Purohit, analyst with Religare Securities says, Even in the last slowdown, it was only in 2003-2004 that offshoring increased in a big way. This time around too, such changes will take time, despite the fact that Indias cost advantage continues to be intact. Viju George seconds this. When companies look to survive and keep their body and soul intact, outsourcing doesnt top the list of priorities. It will eventually happen, nevertheless.Time to get leanerOn the operational front, the companies will try to protect their margins by condensing their hiring plans and increasing the utilisation rate (currently ranging between 70-75 per cent), hiring fewer laterals (individuals with work experience), moderating the growth in wages in the range of 8-12 per cent and keeping a check on their selling, general and administration (SG&amp;amp;A) expenses.While the attrition rate across the industry stands at 13 per cent, analysts feel that the same could reduce by a couple of percentage points at least and aid the utilisation rate. Viju George points out that on-the-ground monitoring activity suggests that hiring has gone down by at least 20 per cent y-o-y. Firms have become very cautious and there are a number of instances where they have postponed the joining dates of new recruits.From a strategic point of view, companies could move towards a more integrated business model catering to the entire spectrum of horizontals and verticals. More thrust is expected to be laid on the nearshoring (setting up offices nearer to the client), to tap conservative markets of Europe and Japan, where the penetration of Indian IT companies has been relatively lower.Companies are likely to consolidate by gaining niche skills, scale and clientele and moving up the value chain from their bread-and-butter application development and maintenance (about 50-60 per cent of revenues) to high growth, high margin areas such as consulting, infrastructure management services, packaged implementation and engineering.The recent move by Infosys and followed by HCL Technologies to acquire Axon Group, UK (a consulting company) is an indication of this trend.WHERE THE MONEY COMES FROMGeographical breakup (%)Segment breakup (%)HCL TechFigures are based on FY08 financials * Includes transport &amp;amp; logisticsThe rupee has been kindThe 7.3 per cent fall in the value of Indian rupee against the dollar since July 1, 2008 could not have come at a better time. A strong dollar is beneficial for exporters as it fetches them more of the local currency improving operating margins, as in the case of IT firms by about 35-40 bps (basis points; 100 bps is one percentage point).However, for companies which have hedged their receivables, the benefits on account of rupee depreciation would be capped. Firms that have relatively lower forex hedges like Infosys and Satyam are expected to benefit the most, while HCL Technologies and Wipro could gather mark-to-market losses.On the other hand, while it will help improve rupee earnings, the greenbacks rise against other currencies (8.4 per cent against the euro and 8.8 per cent against the pound) would mean a hit in dollar earnings, which will reflect in the US GAAP numbers of companies. For example, Infosys derives around 28 per cent of its revenues from these currencies (euro and pound).Due to this, analysts feel that the company could miss its FY09 US dollar revenue growth guidance of 19-21 per cent by about 1.5-2 percentage points. (Rupees appreciation against the euro and pound has been marginal at less than one per cent since July 1).On an average, analysts expect the net impact ...
