LONDON (Reuters) - Shares in JJB Sports slumped 63 percent on Friday after the sports retailer warned on its full-year profit and said cash projections showed it would breach its bank covenants.The group also axed its interim dividend after reporting an unexpected first-half loss.JJB said HBOS claims the retailer breached covenants relating to a 15 million pounds loan facility. JJB has rejected this claim on legal advice, but it did project future breaches of the HBOS loan and a 60 million pound facility from Barclays Bank , based on cash flow assumptions.JJB said the banks' current intention is to make the original facilities available to the group. It said talks with the banks were continuing. It said it has also recently negotiated a 20 million pound bridging loan with Kaupthing Bank.Finance Director David Madeley played down a statement from the group's auditor Deloitte &amp;amp; Touche that the covenant issues 'indicate the existence of material uncertainties that may cast doubt about the group's ability to continue as a going concern.' He told reporters: 'The important message that we want to get over today is that our banks fully support us ... they remain onside, there's no problems. 'There's no issues, but unfortunately, technically, the auditors have to say what they say.' At 1:23 p.m. shares in JJB were down 65 pence at 39 pence, valuing the business at 92 million pounds.Shares in rival Sports Direct International were down 6 percent at 59.8 pence.FORECASTSPhilip Dorgan, analyst at Panmure Gordon, JJB's house broker, said in a research note that while the auditors' use of language was 'draconian,' investors had decided to 'shoot first and ask questions later.' JJB Chief Executive Chris Ronnie told reporters he expected analysts to halve their underlying pretax profit forecasts for the year to end-January 2009 to about 15 million pounds from 30 million pounds prior to Friday's update.Ronnie, who along with Icelandic financial group Exista purchased a 29.9 percent stake in JJB in August 2007, said he expected trading conditions to remain tough until 2010. 'Its an extremely tough climate out there on the high street as nearly all other retailers are experiencing,' he said. 'We explained from the outset that this was a long-term strategic investment, it was not a short-term investment ... we are on track as far as our strategy is concerned.' For the 34 weeks to September 21, the Wigan, northwest England-based group said sales were down 8.5 percent. On a like-for-like basis, which strips out the impact of new and closed space, sales fell 4.5 percent.JJB, which earlier this year closed 72 loss-making stores and cut 800 jobs, said it made a loss before tax and exceptional items of 9.7 million pounds for the 26 weeks to July 27.This compares with analyst forecasts of a profit of up to 6 million pounds and a profit of 8.3 million pounds last time.The loss reflected a 5.6 percent fall in sales to 344.7 million pounds and losses totalling 6.6 million pounds at two newly acquired subsidiaries -- Original Shoe Company and Qube.Gross margin, a measure of profitability, improved 90 basis points, driven by introduction of more of JJB's own brands, and for the retail business was up over 300 basis points for the 34-week period.Last year, the group paid an interim dividend of 3.0 pence. Panmure Gordon's Dorgan cut his full year dividend forecast to 2 pence from 10 pence.(Editing by Quentin Bryar)
