Regulators must level the market playing fieldJUST when the extreme volatility in global share markets and credit markets showed signs of settling down, the commodity markets go ballistic. Crude oil prices soared $US25 a barrel in offshore trading on Monday night, or more than 20 per cent in one session. Yet there were no developments - no inflammation of tensions in the Middle East, for instance - that would justify such an extraordinary jump in the price of a staple commodity. It was just the latest example of wild swings in prices on the world financial markets that defy old-fashioned notions of the fundamentals. Such volatility may be inevitable during financial crises such as the present one, and market professionals are generously rewarded to deal with whatever the market throws up. But ordinary retail investors are not. Those who think about the rules of share market investing beyond the current crisis need to give more consideration to the essential purpose of the stock market and whose interests it serves. The function of the share market is to raise equity capital from the citizenry to be deployed by companies to build profitable businesses that supply goods and services, employ people and return dividends to shareholders. This equity capital gives the citizenry a direct stake in the fortunes (and misfortunes) of the companies in which they invest. By sharing the risk and reward of commercial enterprise and entrepreneurship, the share market contributes to the expanding wealth of the nation. Australia has benefited greatly from the mass democratisation of our share market. Whether through direct ownership of shares or indirectly through superannuation funds, the majority of adult Australians have a direct stake in a share market now valued at about $1.3trillion. A key part of the policy strategy has been to support self-reliance rather than dependence on the state. The share market should be much more than a vast pool of hot money for the benefit of offshore hedge funds or other market manipulators. Everyone knows that speculation normally helps stabilise markets, because it can be profitable only by selling high and buying low. But today's market practices and derivative techniques appear go far beyond that simple depiction of text-book speculation. They appear to extend to an incentive to badly damage companies, particularly financial companies whose capital backing depends in large part on their share price. The text books do not include the sort of practice described in The Australian on Monday by former Macquarie Bank executive John Green. As Mr Green described it, speculators first attacked the credit default swap market for Macquarie's debt securities. This market takes positions on the risk that Macquarie might default on its bond payments. Particularly in the current climate, this market is relatively illiquid and so open to manipulation - in this case to produce a widening in Macquarie's credit spread. This, in turn, would be taken by equity market investors as a signal from the credit market that something was going seriously wrong with Macquarie. And this would soften up the stock for a short-selling attack. Excuse us for thinking that this looks more like nobbling a nag on the racetrack than stabilising speculation on the share market. Yes, market speculation can work to artificially inflate share prices during bull markets. But the difference between panic selling and euphoric buying is more than directional. There is a different dynamic at play when short selling of shares in an Australian financial institution such as the National Australia Bank - a highly rated bank by international standards - threatens to drive down its share price to levels where it would be forced to raise capital amid a global credit crunch. It is self-evident that banking regulators and supervisors have lagged badly behind the development of sophisticated credit market products. They, along with many other people, did not see that the securitisation of basic bricks-and-mortar lending would not painlessly spread risk as advertised, but instead would spark a global financial crisis and the freezing-up of liquidity on global credit markets. Something similar appears to be happening in the equity market. The Australian does not suggest that the regulatory response is obvious or easy. Nor do we suggest there is anything inherently wrong with short selling - the selling of shares that investors do not own in the hope of buying them later at a lower price. It has taken last week's extraordinary events to force an emergency ban on short selling in share markets around the world. Australia has gone furthest by banning the short selling of all stocks - rather than just financial companies - for 30 days. That move, announced on Sunday night, was prompted by fears that Australia needed extra insulation against short-sellers ordered away from other markets. It came two days after belated moves by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission to require short-sellers to disclose their activities, a move which should provide some need transparency to the market. The global financial crisis has shaken the confidence of retail investors in the share market and superannuation. It will unsettle emerging companies thinking of tapping equity capital by listing on the share market. The bourse that emerges from the crisis needs to make sure that retail investors, their superannuation funds and growing companies, rather than money sharks, are its main customers.
