 Frank McGarahan went to the aid of a man who was being teased by a group of young men when they turned on him and attacked him Photo:  The men, all aged in their early 20s, were being hled at police stations across Norfolk. A spokesman said they would be questioned on Tuesday night into Wednesday. McGarahan, 45, was killed after he rushed to the aid of a Lithuanian homeless man, police said. The chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth was set upon by a group of around four men in their late teens and early 20s in Norwich at 3am on Sunday. Police said Mr McGarahan had been queuing with his brother and a cousin for a taxi when he saw a group of young men taunting and abusing another man, who was walking a dog with his girlfriend. When Mr McGarahan stepped in, there was an exchange of words and the group turned on him, punching and kicking him, and also injuring his relatives, although not seriously. It emerged that a bouncer from the nearby Spearmint Rhino club also joined in to help Mr McGarahan and had his jaw broken by the youths. Detective Supt Chris Hobley said no weapon was used in the assault. Our understanding is there were a number of punches and kicks, he said. Mr McGarahan did not regain consciousness following the incident, in the early hours of Sunday morning, and was pronounced dead at about 12.15pm on Monday. Mr Hobley said he could understand why Mr McGarahan decided to get involved. He has clearly taken a view of seeing someone suffer an assault, he said. That view is understandable. Mr McGarahan, from Much Hadham, Herts, was in Norwich for the weekend attending a family christening. He is one of six brothers, another being Anthony, 44, who is the interim communications manager for Bradford and Bingley. A family spokesman said: He was a very fair minded man. He had seen something right in front of him and he tried to help a young lad and his girlfriend who were being viciously attacked. It's terrible when a man cannot go out and have a quiet family meal on what should have been a very joyous occasion but ends up paying with his life to trying to help someone out. He tried to break it up and paid with his life. He paid the ultimate price for trying to be a good citizen. He added: Frank has always been a fantastic family man, whether as a son, a brother or a dad. He was incredibly hard working but also a fantastic family man. It's beyond tragic. On witness, Richard Chisnell, who runs Mike's bar on Lobster Lane, said: I could hear a girl screaming, it was pretty horrendous. I thought it was a fight, you see so many fights out there. I saw someone on the floor and I saw them chase someone up towards Tesco. There were a hell of a lot of people about on Saturday night and a lot of drunk people. Police said the Lithuanian man received medical attention following the incident but was not seriously injured. 
