NEWCASTLE boss Joe Kinnear will draw on his experiences at Wimbledon as he attempts to fight his way through a tide of negative publicity.  The 61-year-old announced his arrival on Tyneside with a now infamous broadside aimed in the direction of sections of the national press.  And he was in fighting mood once again as he prepares for tomorrow's Barclays Premier League trip to Fulham.  Monday's 2-0 victory over Aston Villa, the club's second successive league win, was overshadowed by the controversy surrounding midfielder Joey Barton  who found himself the subject of allegations of racist abuse after his spat with Gabriel Agbonlahor.  Kinnear has since ordered the 26-year-old to let his football do the talking, and warned him his reputation will inevitably precede him as he attempts to rebuild his career after a spell in prison and a lengthy ban.  However, the Magpies' interim boss is determined not to allow the critics to derail his rebuilding mission.  Kinnear said: 'I understand what he (Barton) is going through, because there wasn't a day went by when I didn't have the same sort of stuff when I was at Wimbledon  so it is not new to me.  'I had lots of stuff with Vinnie Jones; I had lots of stuff with John Fashanu; I had lots of stuff going on at Wimbledon.  'But we always made sure we had a competitive spirit, and we managed to handle that.  'We got through that and became a really good side.  'Joey is a very talented player. You can see for yourself what ability he has got. He can see a pass  I like that; he can put his foot in  I like that.  'Unfortunately, he has to live with all the criticism. People are prepared to ignore what he has got and hammer him for other things that he does.  'It's always negative with Joey Barton and people aren't happy until they are caning him, which is a sad thing. I don't think he deserves it.  'He is a good player  and he will always be in my team.'  Meanwhile, Agbonlahor has revealed he decided not to pursue disciplinary action against Barton because the controversial midfielder 'has had enough bad press'.  The England Under-21 striker said: 'It happened and you try to forget about it.  'At the time, I wasn't very happy, but he has had enough bad press so I decided to leave it.  'The club decided they would back me, but I just decided that that is the sort of player he is. I thought I'd just leave it.'  
