Manager Arsene Wenger brought back his senior players but Arsenal suffered a setback in their Barclays Premier League title challenge as Gabriel Agbonlahor earned a 2-0 victory for Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium.  Ashley Young had a first-half penalty saved by Manuel Almunia but then helped set up the opener when he crossed for Agbonlahor, with the Villa striker celebrating despite Gael Clichy appearing to get the final touch.  Agbonlahor then added a second 10 minutes from full-time when Villa broke.  Brad Friedel fumbled a straightforward shot from Cesc Fabregas, with Curtis Davies required to hack the ball clear as William Gallas lurked.  Young then missed his penalty in the 20th minute after earning the spot-kick himself.  Mikael Silvestre had cleared only as far as Young after a deep cross caused chaos, with Theo Walcott sliding in when the Villa winger surged back in the box. Almunia went the right way with the weak penalty but it still required a brave tackle from Gallas as Young chased the rebound.  Villa were still taking the game to the hosts and former Arsenal trainee Steve Sidwell volleyed straight at Almunia.  Young almost atoned for his penalty miss with a drive that went just wide of Almunia's post, and he had another effort that went straight at the Arsenal goalkeeper.  Young then crossed for Agbonlahor and the ball glanced past Almunia into his far corner as Clichy challenged.  Agbonlahor claimed the goal and there was no argument about the second when he chased a long ball, held off Gallas and fired home to wrap up the points.  Our Top Stories  A 21 YEARS-OLD man has been convicted of attempting to murder a love rival.  Two machete-wielding thugs have been jailed for 14 years after going on a six-month crime spree.  BROADCASTING watchdog Ofcom has been urged by 50,000 fans of X Factor contestant Laura White to investigate telephone voting procedures on the show.  A FOOTBALLER who got too big for his boots has issued a desperate plea  he needs bigger footwear.  A POSTMAN who stole from the mail because of his gambling debts has been jailed for three months.  PARENTS are being urged to ensure youngsters follow safety advice after a teenager was targeted by a car driver who tried to entice her into his vehicle.  Wanderers boss Gary Megson reflected ruefully on a brave Wanderers performance that ended in a 2-0 Reebok defeat which briefly saw Liverpool go to the top of the Premiership table.  Goals from Dirk Kuyt and Steven Gerrard sink the Whites at the Reebok.  Take That will play Old Trafford Cricket Ground next June as part of their The Circus  Live stadium tour - and they're delighted to be home town boys again.  Knife-wielding robbers threatened a pub landlord in Tameside.  
