Harry Redknapp celebrated the end of an 'amazing week' as Tottenham snatched a late 2-1 Barclays Premier League victory over Liverpool.  Substitute Roman Pavlyuchenko tapped home Darren Bent's cross in the 90th minute to lift Spurs off the foot of the table at a rain-swept White Hart Lane.  'It's never a dull moment in my life, that seems to be the way it is,' said Redknapp, who began last weekend as Portsmouth's manager. 'This week has been more of the same - it's been an amazing week.'  Redknapp ordered Pavlyuchenko on at half-time and was rewarded with the winner - but refused to claim any of the credit for the Russian's crucial intervention.  'Roman has got an interpreter. I just said to him at half-time 'just run about'. That's the truth,' he said.  'I can't claim to be tactically cleverer than that. That's all I said to him. To put himself about a bit. If he could. Please.'  There appeared to be only one winner midway through the second half with Dirk Kuyt's tremendous third-minute strike the pick of a dominant Liverpool display.  But wasteful finishing proved the Reds' downfall and when Jamie Carragher nodded into his own net in the 69th minute the stage was set for Spurs to complete their comeback.  'It was a difficult game against such a good side. They're hard to play against, closing the space down,' said Redknapp.  Latest blogs and columns  Caroline Dutton column: The big news this week isnt really news as far as I'm concerned.  Rev Kevin Logan column: The moment the television cameras and monitors picked me up, a swift telegram prayer shot heavenward... Oh Lord, keep mind and mouth in sync.  LEWIS Hamilton has the Formula One crown in his grasp - and I just hope he doesn't blow it this time.  Shuiab Khan column: Things are generally going from bad to worse, so maybe it is time to get back to basics.  Lancashire Telegraph comment: We are separated by 3,000 miles and the wide expanse of the Atlantic Ocean.  UNLESS you're a fight fan, you'll probably have never heard of Peter Buckley.  Jack Straw column: Have I been alone in being underwhelmed by Jonathan Ross' skills?  Lancashire Telegraph comment: The murder of Sophie Lancaster was one of the most sickening crimes ever to occur in East Lancashire.  THERE will be a World Cup clash between Australia and England this weekend - but it has barely earned a mention.  AS quickly as Harry Redknapp signed on as Spurs boss over the weekend, so Tony Adams has been installed as his successor at Portsmouth. And well done Pompey say I!  
