Sunderland striker El-Hadji Diouf warmed up for a key Barclays Premier League game against Chelsea by drinking champagne in a trendy bar.  Diouf's side, rather predictably, went on to be thrashed 5-0 by the Champions and Premier League runners-up.   The Senegal international was pictured in The Sun clutching 300-a-bottle Cristal and a microphone alongside a pal late last Thursday night.  Less than 48 hours later he came on as a substitute as his side were thumped by Chelsea at their Stamford Bridge ground.  Scroll down for more  Diouf, 27, is now facing the wrath of boss Roy Keane after the picture of him partying emerged last night. More...      Diouf was with fellow Black Cats stars Pascal Chimbonda, 29, and Djibril Cisse, 27, at Newcastle's Living Room bar.   They were there to celebrate the birthday of striker Obafemi Martins, who plays for arch-rivals Newcastle United.   Shocked fans told how they watched Diouf drink bubbly as he partied into the early hours. One drinker said: 'Diouf's top was drenched in sweat and he was hugging the DJ. 'At one point he even started rapping in African as he held a bottle of Cristal in one hand. He was with two other Sunderland players, but they didn't seem to be drinking. They were watching in the corner but Diouf was having a ball. We had no idea that he was meant to be playing against Chelsea.' Diouf, a 2.5million signing from Bolton this summer, came on at the start of the second half with Sunderland already 3-0 down.  Scroll down for more  A source at the club said: 'The manager has not seen the picture yet but is aware that some players were out on Thursday night. It doesn't look good, especially when they then lose so heavily on Saturday. 'Fans that travel hundreds of miles to watch the team away from home don't expect to see players partying less than 48 hours before games. 'I'm sure Roy will take action over the next couple of days.' A spokesman for Sunderland AFC refused to comment last night.   Controversial Diouf was banned for two games in 2003 after spitting at Celtic fans while playing for Liverpool.   A year later he was caught on camera spitting at Portsmouth captain Arjan de Zeeuw while playing for Bolton.   He was then banned from the road for a year after admitting a drink-driving charge. More...      
