Manager Arsene Wenger brought back his senior players but Arsenal suffered a setback in their Barclays Premier League title challenge as Gabriel Agbonlahor earned a 2-0 victory for Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium.  Ashley Young had a first-half penalty saved by Manuel Almunia but then helped set up the opener when he crossed for Agbonlahor, with the Villa striker celebrating despite Gael Clichy appearing to get the final touch.  Agbonlahor then added a second 10 minutes from full-time when Villa broke.  Brad Friedel fumbled a straightforward shot from Cesc Fabregas, with Curtis Davies required to hack the ball clear as William Gallas lurked.  Young then missed his penalty in the 20th minute after earning the spot-kick himself.  Mikael Silvestre had cleared only as far as Young after a deep cross caused chaos, with Theo Walcott sliding in when the Villa winger surged back in the box. Almunia went the right way with the weak penalty but it still required a brave tackle from Gallas as Young chased the rebound.  Villa were still taking the game to the hosts and former Arsenal trainee Steve Sidwell volleyed straight at Almunia.  Young almost atoned for his penalty miss with a drive that went just wide of Almunia's post, and he had another effort that went straight at the Arsenal goalkeeper.  Young then crossed for Agbonlahor and the ball glanced past Almunia into his far corner as Clichy challenged.  Agbonlahor claimed the goal and there was no argument about the second when he chased a long ball, held off Gallas and fired home to wrap up the points.  EDITORS CHOICE  SILENCE fell on Bromsgrove town centre yesterday (Tuesday), the 11th day of the 11th month, to mark the 90th anniversary of the World War One Armistice.  THOSE who made the ultimate sacrifice in two world wars and the many conflicts since were honoured at Remembrance Sunday services held in and around Bromsgrove.  HEAVY rain caused parts of Bromsgrove and Rubery to flood last Sunday.  TRIBUTES were paid to Wychbold residents who died serving their country at an intimate gathering for Remembrance Sunday.  BROMSGROVES green waste collection service, once lauded by the district council as a major part of its recycling push, has been withdrawn without consultation from a number of town residents, it has emerged.  THERE are new fears that High Street shoppers are deserting Bromsgrove after figures revealed a huge drop in ticket sales at some town centre car parks.  ITS that time of year again - the Advertiser is beginning the search for its sports personality of 2008.  TO say Anthony Robinson is a much-travelled footballer would be an understatement.  
