The Cottagers leapt up to 10th in the Barclays Premier League after Johnson fired the opener and won the penalty for Danny Murphy's 66th-minute winner.  Capello was watching from the stands and Hodgson believes his 10.5million summer signing from Everton will have caught the Italian's eye. 'Andy's a wonderful finisher. That first goal started fortuitously but he dispatched it so quickly with his left foot, which isn't his favourite,' the Fulham boss said. 'It was a sharp piece of moving for the penalty, provoking the defender to try and win the ball. 'That penalty won us the game and we have to be delighted with him. That's his second man-of-the-match performance. 'I'm always pleased to see Fabio here. Front players who can score goals will always be on the tip of a national team manager's tongue. 'If Andy wants to force his way into Fabio's thinking, he will have to do what he's done in the last two games over the next few matches. 'If I was the national team manager, I'd be making a little note saying 'this looks interesting, let's keep an eye on the situation'.' Shola Ameobi fired a 57th-minute equaliser for Newcastle and Joe Kinnear felt his side should have at least finished with a point.  The Magpies boss was furious with referee Martin Atkinson for failing to spot what he viewed as a clear push by Johnson on Claudio Cacapa in the build-up to the penalty. 'We finished the first half better and dominated the second. There was a blatant foul prior to the penalty, which the referee ignored,' he said. 'We were camped in their half. Cacapa was on the ball and Johnson completely pushes him out the way, nicks the ball and gets the penalty. 'We've got the Mickey Mouse referee doing nothing. He's made an error that cost us. 'The same thing happened last week with a penalty against Man City. 'Later on it was proved it wasn't a penalty and we had a player sent off. That cost us points. 'It just doesn't stop but that's the standard of refereeing in this country. 'It happens week in, week out. There's always a smart answer like 'someone was obstructing my view'. 'You used to be able to have a bit of banter with referees and they'd put their hands up if they make mistakes. Now they hide. 'I'm really sick that we didn't finish with anything. It was a golden opportunity that passed us by. There was only one winner in the second half.' Second-half substitute Michael Owen missed a gilt-edged chance late on but Kinnear believes he can still do a job for England - from the bench. 'Michael had a chance to make it 2-2. We want him to have games to get back to his best,' he said. 'Michael always finds an opportunity to score. Always, no matter what match he's in, he'll find a chance to stick the ball in the net. 'Maybe he sits on the bench for him (Capello) and comes on.'
