Thomas Sorensen made a series of fine second-half saves to secure another valuable Barclays Premier League point for Stoke in a goalless draw at the JJB Stadium.  The former Aston Villa goalkeeper pulled off a late double stop to deny Wigan's Amr Zaki and Antonio Valencia and also got down well to gather an effort from Emile Heskey.  Tony Pulis' men offered little in the attacking department besides a 55th-minute header from Ryan Shawcross which sailed into the arms of home goalkeeper Chris Kirkland.  Wigan captain Mario Melchiot had recovered from a virus which enabled boss Steve Bruce to name an unchanged side.  Stoke boss Pulis was also able to name the same team that scored their famous victory over Arsenal.  Wilson Palacios had the first chance for the home side in front of the massed ranks of travelling fans in the fifth minute when he played a neat one-two with Amr Zaki on the edge of the Stoke box but shot wide.  At the other end, a piece of cool-headed defending by Emmerson Boyce denied Ricardo Fuller a run on goal after Mamady Sidibe had launched a swift counter-attack.  Stoke's hopes suffered a blow when Sidibe had to be helped off the field in the second half, Dave Kitson replacing him.  Heskey sent a header inches wide of Sorensen's left-hand post from a Valencia cross - his last act before limping off to be replaced by Henri Camara. Camara almost made an immediate impression, glancing a header which was tipped behind by Sorensen - and from the resulting corner, Palacios drove a shot into the goalkeeper's body.  Tempers flared in the 72nd minute - but this time between team-mates, as Amdy Faye squared up to central defensive partner Shawcross and had to be calmed by fellow players.  Editor's Choice  North Craven could become home to a multi-million-pound flagship extra care centre for the elderly if ambitious proposals put forward by the county council are realised.  A distraught mother who flew to Skipton from Germany to launch a nationwide appeal for her missing son was astonished to find he had gone on holiday to America without telling anyone.  Parts of Skipton town centre will be closed to traffic on Sunday for the Remembrance Day parade.  Councillors have rejected officers advice for a second time and refused a controversial housing development on a huge swathe of greenfield land.  The Craven Heralds Clean-Up Campaign has been hailed a huge success.  An MP has welcomed a decision to hold an inquiry into a nurse accused of killing three pensioners at Airedale General Hospital.  A new support and information group for grandparents across Craven will be holding its first event on Thursday November 20.  The hoggs went away for wintering yesterday. We loaded them on to the cattle wagon off the bridge (it has its uses) and away they went to their winter home near the sea.  
