Newcastle midfielder Joey Barton will be sidelined for up to eight weeks after damaging knee ligaments on Saturday.  The 26-year-old limped off just 17 minutes into Saturday's 2-2 Barclays Premier League draw with Wigan after being hurt in a challenge with Lee Cattermole.  Barton left St James' Park on crutches and underwent scans on Sunday which revealed he had suffered a slight tear to his right medial ligament.  A club spokesman said: 'After further assessment following scans, he has damage to his right medial ligament and will be out for eight weeks.'  Barton, who absolved Cattermole of any blame, was philosophical as he prepared for another enforced lay-off.  He said: 'I am not blaming Lee Cattermole in any way for this injury. It was a 50-50 ball and we both went for it, and these things happen.  'Obviously, it's disappointing and frustrating, and my sole intention is to knuckle down and bounce back and get fit again to help the Newcastle United cause.'  Editor's Choice  Tributes have been paid to a 'lovable' rugby-playing schoolboy who was found dead in tragic circumstances last week.  A hard-hitting film in which a Pembrokeshire dentist relives the horrific death of his wife at the hands of a drink-driver is to be screened in schools to encourage responsible road use among young people.  An advertising employee who cut his teeth at the Western Telegraph was crowned Britain's top salesman last night.  Calls are being renewed for a voluntary ban on imports after a new strain of bluetongue was found in Holland.  The decision by the UKs largest dairy farmer co-operative to host its agm and conference in Pembrokeshire is being seen as a major coup for the county.  Newtown 4. Haverfordwest County 2.  The Sport Pembrokeshire Awards scheme has seen a record number of nominations this year.  Throughout November there are many art exhibitions worth visiting across the county. There is nothing better than beautiful images to brighten up a dull winters day.  Kill for a Seat comedy club is bringing Christmas to the Queens Hall early this year, in the shape of Jarred Christmas, an energetic comedian from New Zealand, who will be MC for tomorrows (Thursdays) event.  
