Nicolas Anelka scored a hat-trick as Chelsea cut loose at Stamford Bridge thrashing Sunderland 5-0.  Frank Lampard also netted to record the 100th league goal of his career.  Alex was the other Blues player to strike in a match which saw Sunderland manager Roy Keane sent to the stands after clashing with officials.  The tone was set from the kick-off as Chelsea penned Sunderland in their own half, dominating possession, fizzing the ball around the greasy surface with precision.  In the 16th minute Deco swivelled sweetly on the edge of the area and sent a swerving angled shot thundering against the bar, and there was much more to come.  The first goal arrived from Alex, who started the move in midfield. The ball was switched to Joe Cole out on the right and when it fizzed across the penalty area it squirmed under goalkeeper Marton Fulop into the path of Alex, who swept home from three yards.  Anelka quickly made it 2-0, Lampard providing the angled cross, Alex getting the touch as he slid in and although the ball was about to cross the line, Anelka made sure from no more than 12 inches.  Anelka slotted his second, again from close range, on the stroke of half-time and it got worse for Sunderland in the 51st minute when Joe Cole supplied the cross for Lampard to head home.  Two minutes later Anelka completed his hat-trick, again from close-range with the ball looping off Fulop and dropping agonisingly over the line.  Around the site  After thirteen months on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury Chris Seeby made a goal scoring return to action at Clarence Park on Monday night but was unable to save St Albans City Reserves from going down to a 4-1 Capital League Western Division defeat to Harrow Borough.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  Gordon Brown urged Gulf states to pump billions of dollars into struggling economies as he kicked off a tour of the region.  Roman Pavlyuchenko pounced on the stroke of full-time to give Tottenham a 2-1 win over Liverpool and lift them off the foot of Barclays Premier League.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  Thousands of soaked spectators braved torrential rain to watch 20,000 worth of fireworks bang and crash through the sky above Verulamium Park this evening.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  The firework display in Verulamium Park tonight will go ahead, despite the ongoing downpours.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  
