Rafa Benitez today backed  to emulate Peter Crouch by firing a flurry of goals following his first league efforts in the 3-0 victory over West Brom on Saturday. The 28-year-old Irishman waited three months for his first domestic strike for Liverpool after arriving from Spurs in the summer.   For Benitez, it brings to mind the arrival at Anfield of Peter Crouch, who waited until December to find the net after a summer move from Southampton in 2005.   From there, the England man scored seven in eight games.   Benitez hopes history is about to repeat itself with Keane, whose brace against the Midlanders helped Liverpool keep pace with Chelsea at the summit of the Barclays Premier League. 'Robbie was working hard and has been playing well but it is massively important for a striker to score, so it's both good news for him and for us,' said the Liverpool manager. 'I think you'll see him get a lot more now. If the team keeps playing well and creating chances there is no reason why he won't get a lot more. It was just a question of time. 'You could see the difference in Keane as soon as he scored the first goal. It made a massive difference to him. 'I remember talking about Peter Crouch when he first arrived and we were waiting for his first goal. Once he got off the mark, a lot more came and it will be the same with Robbie.' Benitez added: 'I spoke to Robbie before the game, he was under pressure to score but I told him that he had to stay calm because he has been playing well for the team. 'He told me that he was fine, that he had no problems, but you know a striker is always thinking about scoring goals and so it was very important for him to get his first in the league for us. 'Hopefully we will see him scoring a lot more every week now. I wanted to reassure him because it has been difficult for him.' Keane was substituted with 18 minutes remaining against West Brom, ending any hopes of a hat-trick. Benitez said: 'I also spoke to Robbie about the substitutions before the game. I said, 'I know I am changing you a lot but it is only because we need a different kind of player at certain stages of the game.' 'I didn't want to do it again against West Bromwich because, after his two goals, I was expecting the hat-trick. But we had to win the game, that was the most important thing, and Torres had to play too. 'I'm sure he was thinking, 'Why me? Leave me on the pitch', but I wanted to use the pace of Torres. They were playing high up the pitch. 'You can have sentiment as a manager sometimes but at 2-0 you have to be careful because one goal for them and it becomes very nervous at the end.' Keane himself was delighted to get off the mark in the league after two goals in Europe.   The number seven added: 'I've settled in well with the lads, but sometimes it takes longer to settle in with them as players. 'It's taken longer than I would have wanted, but with every game I'm confident I'm getting to know the players better on the field. 'There was evidence of that on Saturday. I think it was a good performance, and it's not about , it's about the team and getting the three points. 'Of course, as a striker you are always going to be judged on how many goals you score, but the most important thing is the victory.'
