Manager Arsene Wenger brought back his senior players but Arsenal suffered a setback in their Barclays Premier League title challenge as Gabriel Agbonlahor earned a 2-0 victory for Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium.  Ashley Young had a first-half penalty saved by Manuel Almunia but then helped set up the opener when he crossed for Agbonlahor, with the Villa striker celebrating despite Gael Clichy appearing to get the final touch.  Agbonlahor then added a second 10 minutes from full-time when Villa broke.  Brad Friedel fumbled a straightforward shot from Cesc Fabregas, with Curtis Davies required to hack the ball clear as William Gallas lurked.  Young then missed his penalty in the 20th minute after earning the spot-kick himself.  Mikael Silvestre had cleared only as far as Young after a deep cross caused chaos, with Theo Walcott sliding in when the Villa winger surged back in the box. Almunia went the right way with the weak penalty but it still required a brave tackle from Gallas as Young chased the rebound.  Villa were still taking the game to the hosts and former Arsenal trainee Steve Sidwell volleyed straight at Almunia.  Young almost atoned for his penalty miss with a drive that went just wide of Almunia's post, and he had another effort that went straight at the Arsenal goalkeeper.  Young then crossed for Agbonlahor and the ball glanced past Almunia into his far corner as Clichy challenged.  Agbonlahor claimed the goal and there was no argument about the second when he chased a long ball, held off Gallas and fired home to wrap up the points.  Editor's Choice  BROUGHTON was celebrating when it was declared to have the Best Local Area Website in the 2008 Hantsweb Awards.  The first period was fairly tight with no indication of the late drama to come as New Street and Amesbury drew 3-3 in front of a big crowd on Friday night at Foxcotte Park.  Signs will be appearing in a number of villages across our area to flash home the message to speeding drivers that they are going too fast.  JIVE and Mini car enthusiasts, Martina Gandzalov and David Andrew Davies, wewre married at at Hustyns, Club La Costa, Wadebridge, in Cornwall.  Gordon Brown claimed that world leaders had backed his blueprint for combating the global slowdown.  IMPROVING safety and security at Winchester and Eastleigh Healthcare NHS Trust  which runs Andover and Winchester hospitals  will be the focus of this years Security Awareness Month (SAM) this month.  Gosport / Fareham 30 Andover 10.  ACTION man Mark Wahlberg takes on a role made famous in a top-selling, award winning videogame Max Payne.  HYDE HELEN Widow of Group Captain O.L. Hyde Died peacefully in her sleep on 31st October 2008. Cremation, Salisbury Crematorium, November 25th at 11.15am. Flowers (blue and purples) would be most welcome. All enquiries c/o I.N. Newman Ltd Griffin House 55 Winchester Street Salisbury SP1 1HL  STUDENT Aretha Green of Andover said that she doesnt usually watch a lot of sport, and doesnt know many sports people.  
