Liverpool returned to the top of the Barclays Premier League thanks to Robbie Keane's first two league goals for the club in their 3-0 victory over West Brom.  Keane had only previously scored twice in the Champions League prior to his 12th league appearance for the club since his 20million move in the summer.  But Keane scored in the 34th and 43rd minutes to secure the points and extend Liverpool's unbeaten home record this year. Alvaro Arbeloa added the gloss in injury time.  Fernando Torres made his return after a six-game absence with a hamstring injury, but initially only as far as the bench.  West Brom, who have not won at Anfield in 41 years, set out with a positive approach by opting for two strikers, Roman Bednar and Ishmael Miller, when most sides arriving here barely leave one man up front.  But in the 34th minute Liverpool did take the lead. This time Keane read Steven Gerrard's run and pass into space to perfection and motored onto it to lift his shot over the diving Scott Carson.  And it was Keane who grabbed another to silence the West Brom fans who had been abusing him because of his association with Wolves many years back.  His second came two minutes from the break when he latched onto a fine through ball from Fabio Aurelio after Liverpool had broken with devastating speed as they cleared an Albion corner.  Keane was in yards of space to round the on-rushing Carson before firing an angled drive into an empty net.  Torres' arrival finally came after 71 minutes, in place of the disappointed Keane, who had been striving for a hat-trick. Liverpool had to wait until the final minute for their third, when full-back Arbeloa cut in from the right to fire into the top corner.  Our Top Stories  TEENAGE rugby forward Matthew Southern realises a dream today (Saturday) when he steps out onto the pitch at Twickenham for the rugby union international between England and the Pacific Islands.  A WOMAN was subjected to a terrifying raid on her home by car thieves.  EMERGENCY services were called to a car crash in Tyldesley last night.  LEIGH Genesis ended a traumatic week with a hastily-assembled side of teenage reserves and unpaid first teamers bowing out of the Carlsberg Trophy to UniBond League rivals, Cammell Laird, on an emotional afternoon at Chorleys Victory Park.  A man accused of rape has told a jury the allegations are untrue.  PEOPLE with a sense of community pride who are tenants or residents living on Leigh and Wigan housing estates are invited to the annual tenants conference being staged on Thursday, November 13 at The Monaco ballroom, Hindley between 9.30am and 3pm.  Matthew Taylor inflicted a third successive defeat on Hull, but it was Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen who emerged his side's real hero following the 1-0 victory.  Hull City 0 Wanderers 1  Take That will play Old Trafford Cricket Ground next June as part of their The Circus  Live stadium tour - and they're delighted to be home town boys again.  A four-year-girl was struck by a paving slab as she lay in her bed in Withington.  
