Manager Arsene Wenger brought back his senior players but Arsenal suffered a setback in their Barclays Premier League title challenge as Gabriel Agbonlahor earned a 2-0 victory for Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium.  Ashley Young had a first-half penalty saved by Manuel Almunia but then helped set up the opener when he crossed for Agbonlahor, with the Villa striker celebrating despite Gael Clichy appearing to get the final touch.  Agbonlahor then added a second 10 minutes from full-time when Villa broke.  Brad Friedel fumbled a straightforward shot from Cesc Fabregas, with Curtis Davies required to hack the ball clear as William Gallas lurked.  Young then missed his penalty in the 20th minute after earning the spot-kick himself.  Mikael Silvestre had cleared only as far as Young after a deep cross caused chaos, with Theo Walcott sliding in when the Villa winger surged back in the box. Almunia went the right way with the weak penalty but it still required a brave tackle from Gallas as Young chased the rebound.  Villa were still taking the game to the hosts and former Arsenal trainee Steve Sidwell volleyed straight at Almunia.  Young almost atoned for his penalty miss with a drive that went just wide of Almunia's post, and he had another effort that went straight at the Arsenal goalkeeper.  Young then crossed for Agbonlahor and the ball glanced past Almunia into his far corner as Clichy challenged.  Agbonlahor claimed the goal and there was no argument about the second when he chased a long ball, held off Gallas and fired home to wrap up the points.  Editor's choice  ITS really hard not to feel sorry for Didier Drogba, Chelseas precious Ivory Coast striker. I mean, just look at him.  George Wilkinson enjoys a winter walk at Kirby Hill, although he could have done without the ford.  GAviN Aitchinson finds something lacking at Yorks newest Indian restaurant.  The beauty of Yorkshires landscape is matched only by the vagaries of its weather. STEPHEN LEWIS dips into a new book of wonderful weather photos from Calendar weatherman Jon Mitchell.  AUTUMN has firmly set in, buffeting gardens with wind and drenching with downpours.  THANKS to package holidays in Benidorm, thousands of Brits fly into Alicante. Yet few stay for longer than it takes to catch the airport transfer bus, so never get a glimpse of what the place is really like.  THE search is on for a courtroom big enough to house the Drax Power Station trial after 27 eco campaigners denied a charge under a 147-year-old law.  A FAMILY of North Yorkshire firefighters have thrown their weight behind our appeal to get a fairer financial settlement from the Government.  
