Liverpool returned to the top of the Barclays Premier League thanks to Robbie Keane's first two league goals for the club in their 3-0 victory over West Brom.  Keane had only previously scored twice in the Champions League prior to his 12th league appearance for the club since his 20million move in the summer.  But Keane scored in the 34th and 43rd minutes to secure the points and extend Liverpool's unbeaten home record this year. Alvaro Arbeloa added the gloss in injury time.  Fernando Torres made his return after a six-game absence with a hamstring injury, but initially only as far as the bench.  West Brom, who have not won at Anfield in 41 years, set out with a positive approach by opting for two strikers, Roman Bednar and Ishmael Miller, when most sides arriving here barely leave one man up front.  But in the 34th minute Liverpool did take the lead. This time Keane read Steven Gerrard's run and pass into space to perfection and motored onto it to lift his shot over the diving Scott Carson.  And it was Keane who grabbed another to silence the West Brom fans who had been abusing him because of his association with Wolves many years back.  His second came two minutes from the break when he latched onto a fine through ball from Fabio Aurelio after Liverpool had broken with devastating speed as they cleared an Albion corner.  Keane was in yards of space to round the on-rushing Carson before firing an angled drive into an empty net.  Torres' arrival finally came after 71 minutes, in place of the disappointed Keane, who had been striving for a hat-trick. Liverpool had to wait until the final minute for their third, when full-back Arbeloa cut in from the right to fire into the top corner.  Editors Choice  Malvern Lynx band won 15 out of 16 trophies in most recent competition.  THE cost of keeping Malverns iconic gas lamps lit should not fall on local residents, claimed the chairman of Malvern Wells Parish Council.  PEOPLE from Malvern are once again invited to remember their loved ones and help raise money for the St Richards Hospice.  HIGH fashion will be on display in Upton during a glamorous catwalk event for a good cause.  GYM-goers will be able to get their own back on their fitness instructor in the name of Children in Need.  CHRISTMAS wishes may soon come true for community groups around Malvern with cash available from the latest Lions Club grant scheme.  A PRODUCTION workshop will give Bromyard residents the chance to play their part in a mini-feature film about the town.  A FORMER Malvern schoolgirl fell 45ft to her death while walking in Siberia.  ONE of Worcestershires favourite orchestras Chandos Symphony Orchestra is celebrating its 30th birthday with a very special concert at Malverns Forum Theatre on Sunday, November 16.  
