Harry Redknapp celebrated the end of an 'amazing week' as Tottenham snatched a late 2-1 Barclays Premier League victory over Liverpool.  Substitute Roman Pavlyuchenko tapped home Darren Bent's cross in the 90th minute to lift Spurs off the foot of the table at a rain-swept White Hart Lane.  'It's never a dull moment in my life, that seems to be the way it is,' said Redknapp, who began last weekend as Portsmouth's manager. 'This week has been more of the same - it's been an amazing week.'  Redknapp ordered Pavlyuchenko on at half-time and was rewarded with the winner - but refused to claim any of the credit for the Russian's crucial intervention.  'Roman has got an interpreter. I just said to him at half-time 'just run about'. That's the truth,' he said.  'I can't claim to be tactically cleverer than that. That's all I said to him. To put himself about a bit. If he could. Please.'  There appeared to be only one winner midway through the second half with Dirk Kuyt's tremendous third-minute strike the pick of a dominant Liverpool display.  But wasteful finishing proved the Reds' downfall and when Jamie Carragher nodded into his own net in the 69th minute the stage was set for Spurs to complete their comeback.  'It was a difficult game against such a good side. They're hard to play against, closing the space down,' said Redknapp.  Our Top Stories  THE Bolton News today launches a month-long initiative which aims to help readers save hundreds of pounds.  A WOMAN had to be cut out of her car when she crashed into a wall.  ARSONISTS set fire to a car in Breightmet.  GARY Megson reckons Wanderers should not feel like the paupers when they line up against moneybags Manchester City at the Reebok.  GARY Megson says he is not about to panic over Johan Elmanders lack of goals.  EMMERDALE star Roxanne Pallet brought her own brand of northern charm to the Market Place shopping centre when she introduced a glamorous fashion show.  GOLDEN boy Jason Kenny was in the medals again when British riders dominated the first leg of cyclings World Cup at the Manchester Velodrome on Friday.  Olga Kurylenko reveals to Steve Pratt that shes the Bond girl who didnt fancy a love scene with 007 Daniel Craig. One suspects she may be in the minority.  A PHOTO of Moor Lane bus station in Looking Back prompted Denis O'Connor, a retired engineer and former member of the now defunct Bolton Industrial History Society, to write about the history of the site.  TOP Bolton chef Mike Harrison has cooked for the great and the good and now he is sharing some of his most popular recipes with The Bolton News readers.  
