Rafael Benitez has made it clear he is anxious for an early resolution to contract negotiations he hopes will secure his long-term future as Liverpool manager.  The Spaniard, who is plotting Liverpool's bid for the Barclays Premier League title, believes sorting out his own future will also go a long way to boosting confidence.  'I want the contract done quickly, because the team is playing well,' said Benitez.  'I do not want to be talking about this for weeks and months.  'The team is very strong - you can see the progress. There is a new stadium soon, and I want to be part of the future of Liverpool.  'The length of the contract is important to me. We have been improving the squad for five years - so clearly we know that in the future we can be contenders and we can win more trophies.'  When a potential five-year contract was suggested, Benitez said: 'That would be very good.  'We will have to see, but I would like to be here for a very long time.  'We must do it quickly. Next week there will be meetings, and I hope it can be sorted soon - certainly not too long.  'I would like to see it signed before the end of the month. The owners have to talk to my agent about the conditions of the deal, but clearly the length of the contract is crucial. Stability is the key to winning trophies and being contenders for the title.'  Editor's Choice  North Craven could become home to a multi-million-pound flagship extra care centre for the elderly if ambitious proposals put forward by the county council are realised.  A distraught mother who flew to Skipton from Germany to launch a nationwide appeal for her missing son was astonished to find he had gone on holiday to America without telling anyone.  Parts of Skipton town centre will be closed to traffic on Sunday for the Remembrance Day parade.  Councillors have rejected officers advice for a second time and refused a controversial housing development on a huge swathe of greenfield land.  The Craven Heralds Clean-Up Campaign has been hailed a huge success.  An MP has welcomed a decision to hold an inquiry into a nurse accused of killing three pensioners at Airedale General Hospital.  A new support and information group for grandparents across Craven will be holding its first event on Thursday November 20.  The hoggs went away for wintering yesterday. We loaded them on to the cattle wagon off the bridge (it has its uses) and away they went to their winter home near the sea.  
