Danny Murphy struck from the spot as Fulham edged a lively contest to halt Newcastle's surge up the Barclays Premier League table with a 2-1 win at Craven Cottage.  Murphy converted a 66th-minute penalty after Fabricio Coloccini had clipped Andy Johnson while the England marksman was sprinting into the area.  Johnson had given Fulham a deserved interval lead when he capitalised on a defensive blunder by Claudio Cacapa to claim his third goal since his arrival in the summer.  A floated cross by Jimmy Bullard was met by Cacapa but his headed clearance struck team-mate Coloccini and fell into the path of Johnson, who buried the chance.  The Cottagers attacked at will in the first half and their dominance deserved a greater return with Bullard and Zoltan Gera failing to bury good chances.  But Newcastle emerged fired up after the break and their 57th-minute equaliser by Shola Ameobi, which had a hint of offside about it, was fitting reward for their revival.  Damien Duff's cross was deflected by Johnson into the centre of the area but an unfortunate bounce saw the ball elude right-back John Pantsil.  Instead, it slipped behind him and Ameobi was the first to react by drilling home from three metres out.  Against the run of play Roy Hodgson's team restored their lead when Murphy struck from the spot in the 66th minute.  Murphy's goal set up a thrilling finale but Fulham hung on to protect their impressive home form, which now reads 13 points out of a possible 18.  Our Top Stories  LEIGHS golden girl, swimmer Heather Frederiksen, has won the Ultimate Against All Odds Award at The Cosmopolitan Ultimate Women of the Year Awards 2008.  TEENAGE rugby forward Matthew Southern realises a dream today (Saturday) when he steps out onto the pitch at Twickenham for the rugby union international between England and the Pacific Islands.  A WOMAN was subjected to a terrifying raid on her home by car thieves.  LEIGH Genesis ended a traumatic week with a hastily-assembled side of teenage reserves and unpaid first teamers bowing out of the Carlsberg Trophy to UniBond League rivals, Cammell Laird, on an emotional afternoon at Chorleys Victory Park.  EMERGENCY services were called to a car crash in Tyldesley last night.  A man accused of rape has told a jury the allegations are untrue.  Hull City 0 Wanderers 1  NOT for the first time, Arsene Wengers consternation has prompted an angry reaction at the Reebok Stadium.  Take That will play Old Trafford Cricket Ground next June as part of their The Circus  Live stadium tour - and they're delighted to be home town boys again.  A four-year-girl was struck by a paving slab as she lay in her bed in Withington.  
