Obafemi Martins sent Newcastle hurtling up the Barclays Premier League table but still could not keep Joey Barton out of the headlines.  The Nigeria international claimed a second-half double against Aston Villa to hand the struggling Magpies a second successive league win which dragged them from 20th place into 14th. However, the main talking point after the final whistle was a first-half incident in which Barton had flicked out a hand at Villa's Gabriel Agbonlahor.  Chris Hughton, standing in for interim boss Joe Kinnear at the post-match press conference with the 61-year-old having lost his voice, was quick to defend the player, saying: 'One thing we are aware of is that any incident regarding Joey is going to be blown up twice as much as it's going to be with any other player. But as regards to what that was, I am not aware.'  He added: 'All we can ask of him is to put in the performances he has done for us since he has been back. He is a very short way into his period back with us.  'All of those things, he is aware of.'  Villa boss Martin O'Neill, however, moved to play down the incident.  Asked if it had affected Agbonlahor's performance, he said: 'It would have done if he had had to pick his nose up from the ground.  'It probably would have if he couldn't smell or couldn't breathe. It might have been a problem.'    Email to a friend   Share  Editor's choice  A POPULAR cafe has re-opened with a new look, after being re-fitted following a fire. Pasha Cafe in Braintrees Leather Lane was completely burned out inside after arsonists struck in May. Firemen believed a lit object was pushed through the cafes letter box, and a large bin behind the premises was also set alight, scorching the back of the building. The family run cafe, as well as Curves gym upstairs and adjoining buildings suffered extensive smoke damage, and owners Dee and Sel Corsar felt they had lost everything. But the Turkish couple, who live in Cressing with their son Even fought back and took out loans in order to reopen. Mrs Corsar, 38, invited Braintree Council chairman Patricia Newton to join the couple for its re-opening. The couple spent about 15,000 on refitting the cafe equipment, having only got 8,000 through insurance.  
