Newcastle boss Joe Kinnear has warned Tottenham counterpart Harry Redknapp to save the price of a phone call if he intends to step up his interest in Shay Given.  The new Spurs manager, who has made a blistering start to his reign at White Hart Lane, has made no secret of his admiration for the 32-year-old Irishman, who has returned to top form after finally shaking off his injury problems.  With the Magpies currently in a state of flux as owner Mike Ashley continues the search for a buyer - rumours that a deal has been struck were not being given too much credence on Tyneside today - there is an assumption that some of their big names could be there for the taking once the January transfer window opens.  However, while Michael Owen, Nicky Butt and Steve Harper will be able to talk to interested parties in the New Year as their current contracts draw to a close, interim boss Kinnear is adamant that the likes of Given will not be up for grabs.  He said: 'I can save Harry the time and money and tell him not to bother even picking up the telephone, because there is no way Shay Given will be leaving this football club.  'We want to build up Newcastle United and get good players in, not good players out.  'And why would he want to go to Spurs? This is a bigger club than Spurs.'  That assertion may be debatable with Newcastle currently back in the Barclays Premier League's relegation zone as a result of last weekend's 2-1 defeat at Fulham, while Spurs have soared since Redknapp's arrival.  However, Kinnear is determined to address the situation by recording a third successive home win when Wigan head for St James' Park tomorrow, and Given will be a key part of his plans.  He said: 'Shay Given has a lot of presence. All great goalkeepers have it.  'He reminds me a lot of Pat Jennings, who I played in front of for most of my time at Spurs.  'I have the utmost respect for Shay Given, as have most people in the game.  'He has vast experience and he is vital to us - and not only that, he is a decent fella.'  Kinnear set tongues wagging today when he did not conduct his pre-match press conference, and asked coach Chris Hughton to speak to the media instead.  Asked if anything should be read into the 61-year-old's absence, Hughton said: 'He has gone to look at a game. It is something all managers and coaches will do at certain times.'  Kinnear revealed last week that he has started the process of identifying potential targets for January just in case he is still in charge.  He is currently operating on a rolling monthly contract with conflicting reports suggesting that a deal to sell the club is close, and conversely that the prevailing economic conditions mean that is unlikely.  The former Wimbledon boss has already thrown his hat into the ring for the job on a permanent basis whoever is in charge, and Hughton knows how much he would relish the chance of an extended stay.  He said: 'I'm quite sure he would. He is very much enjoying being back in the game and everything that comes with it.'  Defender Steven Taylor will once again be missing with a groin problem with Claudio Cacapa and Sebastien Bassong standing by, while England striker Owen may have to remain patient after his return to fitness.  Hughton said: 'For Michael there are always two elements - first and foremost, he wants to be playing here, and then, of course, it is the opportunity to get back into the England squad.  'But the most important thing is to get back in here, and he probably could not have done any more to push his claim.'
