ROBBIE Keane gave Rafael Benitez his 150th victory as Liverpool boss as the Anfield club moved back to the top of the Barclays Premier League.  Keane, who had managed to score only twice previously since his summer move from Tottenham - both in the Champions League - finally broke his league duck when he drove home from a Steven Gerrard pass in the 34th minute.  Keane's second came when he rounded Scott Carson a couple of minutes before the break and Alvaro Arbeloa added the gloss in injury time.  Liverpool have now beaten West Brom in their last 10 meetings and wiped away the memory of losing their unbeaten record at Spurs last weekend.  Fernando Torres made his return after a six-game absence with a hamstring injury, but initially only as far as the bench.  Benitez rested midfielder Xabi Alonso to the bench and brought in Yossi Benayoun as the only change from the side that drew with Atletico Madrid in the Champions League on Tuesday.  West Brom were without James Morrison from the side that drew with Blackburn last time out, Do-heon Kim coming into the team.  West Brom, who have not won at Anfield in 41 years, set out with a positive approach by opting for two strikers, Roman Bednar and Ishmael Miller, when most sides arriving here barely leave one man up front.  They initially moved forward with confidence, but Liverpool had space down both flanks to exploit and slowly started to pull West Brom's defence apart.  Former Liverpool keeper Carson saved well from Gerrard and Keane, but although Albion were still abrasive up front, a home breakthrough was only a matter of time.  Daniel Agger's tackle halted Borja Valero in the act of shooting, before Jonas Olsson was booked for a foul on Dirk Kuyt after 18 minutes.  At this point West Brom were standing up well to Liverpool's quick passing moves, which frequently broke down around Keane, whose anticipation of balls into space was at times poor.  But Liverpool came close when Gerrard sent in Benayoun on the right. Carson did well to save the winger's shot, but the ball bounced up and onto the arm of Olsson before bouncing away for a corner. Referee Peter Walton ignored pleas for a penalty.  Four minutes later Liverpool did take the lead. This time Keane read Gerrard's run and pass into space to perfection and motored onto it to lift his shot over the diving Carson.  And it was Keane who grabbed another to silence the West Brom fans who had been abusing him because of his association with Wolves many years back.  His second came two minutes from the break when he latched onto a fine through ball from Fabio Aurelio after Liverpool had broken with devastating speed as they cleared an Albion corner.  Keane was in yards of space to round the on-rushing Carson before firing an angled drive into an empty net.  Such a situation would have deflated many sides, but Albion came forward with purpose and spirit in the second period.  Robert Koren saw a long-range shot held by Jose Reina and another drive go wide before Albion opted for two substitutions after 56 minutes.  Luke Moore and Filipe Teixeira came on for Bednar and Do-heon Kim.  Keane got away from Ryan Donk in the box after 60 minutes, but Carson was out quickly to take the ball off the Irishman's toes.  Liverpool sent on Ryan Babel for Albert Riera after 66 minutes, the home side having been too quick to start coasting to victory and West Brom still showing spirit.  Torres' arrival finally came after 71 minutes, in place of the disappointed Keane, who had been striving for a hat-trick.  Torres' was soon into the action, taking a Benayoun pass. A quick change of pace and a fierce low shot, saved by Carson, followed and the Spaniard was back in his stride.  Liverpool had to wait until the final minute for their third, when full-back Arbeloa cut in from the right to fire into the top corner.  
