Stoke almost took their famous fighting spirit too far, with duo Abdoulaye Faye and Dave Kitson involved in an angry altercation.  But the incident did not concern Stoke boss Tony Pulis, who said: 'It just goes to show the players' passion and commitment. They're all in the dressing room together and you can see what it means to them.'  Despite his disappointment at barely improving upon the worst home record in the Barclays Premier League, Steve Bruce refused to follow Arsene Wenger's example and instead heaped praise upon his opponents.  Bruce added: 'I know how difficult it is to bring a team up from the Championship into the Premier League and whatever you write or I say, they're going to do it their way.  'It's flaming hard to play against them. Wimbledon did it years ago and won the FA Cup and finished in the top 10 repeatedly. They're big, powerful, well drilled and very tough to play against.'  Thomas Sorensen sealed the Potters' point on an otherwise uneventful afternoon when he made a fine double-save to deny both Amr Zaki and Wilson Palacios 10 minutes from time.  Zaki, Heskey and Henri Camara had all come close before Sorensen's late heroics while all the visitors could really muster was a Shawcross header from Seyi Olofinjana's cross.  Palacios had shot wide in the fifth minute before the first Rory Delap long throw of the afternoon was confidently punched clear by Wigan keeper Chris Kirkland in the 15th minute.  But the inadequacy of the affair was summed up five minutes before the break when Mario Melchiot was pulled up for a foul throw much to the amusement of the Stoke fans behind the goal.  The visitors summoned their first shot on target in the 55th minute when Olofinjana dipped in a cross from wide on the right which Shawcross reached with a firm header which was held by Kirkland.  Two minutes later Heskey sent a low header inches wide of Sorensen's left-hand post from a Valencia cross in his last act before limping off the pitch to be replaced by Camara.  Camara almost made an immediate impression, glancing a header from a Valencia cross which was tipped behind by Sorensen, and from the resulting corner Palacios drove a shot into the keeper's body.  Zaki directed a close-range header from a Koumas cross well over the bar before Sorensen stepped in to save the day with his double-save and presumably ease the tension in his dressing room afterwards.  Pulis added: 'It was always going to be a difficult week for us after the Arsenal game, after you've played one of the top teams and got a great result and with all the furore afterwards.  'It's sometimes very hard to get the players up again. It was really a concern for me but they showed they are a committed group. They get their bodies in the way and they did that in abundance in the second half.'  
