Tottenham striker Darren Bent feels the the training ground is no longer a 'horrible place to be' under Harry Redknapp.  Darren Bent insists the man-management skills of new Tottenham boss Harry Redknapp have quashed the discontent which set in during Juande Ramos' failed regime.  Spurs climbed off the foot of the Barclays Premier League with Saturday's thrilling 2-1 victory over Liverpool, making it seven points from three matches under Redknapp.  Appointing the former Portsmouth manager is proving an inspired move by the White Hart Lane board who could only have dreamed of such a stunning revival.  Bent has revealed Redknapp inherited a squad tainted by unrest and bereft of confidence, yet changed the mood instantly with an inclusive approach which restored self-belief.  And in a damning indictment of the language barrier under Spaniard Ramos, Bent has revealed Redknapp's communication skills sent morale soaring.  'At one stage the training ground was a horrible place to be,' he said.  'Everyone was down but since Harry has come in everyone has had a new lease of life. That has shown in the performances.  'It wasn't nice before. Ramos came in and banished a lot of players to the reserves because he didn't want them.  'But Harry has made everyone feel welcome and that's the respect you've got to show people.  'If you show them that respect, they will do what we've done on the pitch and get results.  'I never really got to know Ramos. He's a good manager, there is no debating that, but some things work and some things don't.  'Sitting at the bottom of the table shows it didn't work with him. With Harry coming in, the proof is in the pudding.  'The one thing Harry has done in contrast with Juande to spark the revival is use people skills.  'He has made us believe that we're good players and that we shouldn't be where we are, whereas with Juande and the Spanish, it was a bit hard.  'The players now believe in how good we are and how we can progress in this league.  'Harry can talk to people one to one and have a proper conversation with them and know what he's going on about.'  Bent combined with Roman Pavlyuchenko to secure a dramatic triumph against Liverpool, laying on the pass for the Russian to tap home on the stroke of full time.  In an amazing statement given Pavlyuchenko had just been signed for 13.8million, former assistant coach Gus Poyet claimed last month that the pair were too similar to function in the same team.  Bent was astonished by the remark and remains convinced he can forge a productive partnership alongside the 26-year-old Russian.  'It was said that me and Roman couldn't play together but against Liverpool I set him up for the winner,' he said.  'It was bit of a silly thing to say considering they went and bought him when I was already here.  'We will keep working on things in training, keep trying to improve and win games. It was frustrating that we weren't being played together.  'Roman's English is getting better. My Russian is poor, but his English is getting better all the time and it's starting to work.  'With time, the partnership will blossom. We haven't really done a lot of work on it. Harry has made us play together against Liverpool and it paid off.  'Harry has put us together in training. I think ideally Harry wants to play 4-4-2, so if he can get us two working together, it can only help the team.'  
