Harry Redknapp celebrated the end of an 'amazing week' as Tottenham snatched a late 2-1 Barclays Premier League victory over Liverpool.  Substitute Roman Pavlyuchenko tapped home Darren Bent's cross in the 90th minute to lift Spurs off the foot of the table at a rain-swept White Hart Lane.  'It's never a dull moment in my life, that seems to be the way it is,' said Redknapp, who began last weekend as Portsmouth's manager. 'This week has been more of the same - it's been an amazing week.'  Redknapp ordered Pavlyuchenko on at half-time and was rewarded with the winner - but refused to claim any of the credit for the Russian's crucial intervention.  'Roman has got an interpreter. I just said to him at half-time 'just run about'. That's the truth,' he said.  'I can't claim to be tactically cleverer than that. That's all I said to him. To put himself about a bit. If he could. Please.'  There appeared to be only one winner midway through the second half with Dirk Kuyt's tremendous third-minute strike the pick of a dominant Liverpool display.  But wasteful finishing proved the Reds' downfall and when Jamie Carragher nodded into his own net in the 69th minute the stage was set for Spurs to complete their comeback.  'It was a difficult game against such a good side. They're hard to play against, closing the space down,' said Redknapp.  Around the site  Neither Bromley nor atrocious weather could slow St Albans Citys march into the top six of Blue Square South on Saturday as a pair of opportunist goals by leading scorer Paul Hakim and a slice of sublime skill by Gary Cohen secured a 3-2 victory for the Saints at a storm battered Hayes Lane.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  Gordon Brown urged Gulf states to pump billions of dollars into struggling economies as he kicked off a tour of the region.  England were comprehensively demolished as the Stanford Superstars became dollar millionaires in the high-profile Twenty20-for-20 contest.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  Thousands of soaked spectators braved torrential rain to watch 20,000 worth of fireworks bang and crash through the sky above Verulamium Park this evening.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  The firework display in Verulamium Park tonight will go ahead, despite the ongoing downpours.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  
