GKKpA - Added some at 2.19 and 2.21. Probably need to sit on these a while. From the 10Q Business and Organization Gramercy Capital Corp. (the "Company" or "Gramercy") is an integrated commercial real estate finance and property investment company. The Company was formed in April 2004 and commenced operations upon the completion of its initial public offering in August 2004. On April 1, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of American Financial Realty Trust (NYSE: AFR) ("American Financial") in a transaction with a total value of approximately $3.3 billion, including the assumption of approximately $1.3 billion of American Financial's secured debt. The acquisition transformed the Company from a pure specialty finance company into a diversified enterprise with complementary business lines consisting of commercial real estate finance and property investments. The Company's commercial real estate finance business, which operates under the name Gramercy Finance, focuses on the direct origination and acquisition of whole loans, subordinate interests in whole loans, mezzanine loans, preferred equity, commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS, and other real estate related securities. The Company's property investment business, which operates under the name Gramercy Realty, focuses on the acquisition and management of commercial properties net leased primarily to regulated financial institutions and affiliated users throughout the United States. These institutions are, for the most part, deposit-taking commercial banks, thrifts and credit unions, which the Company generally refers to as "banks." The Company's portfolio of wholly-owned and jointly-owned bank branches and office buildings is leased to large banks such as Bank of America, N.A., Wachovia Bank, National Association, Regions Financial Corporation and Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and to mid-sized and community banks. Neither Gramercy Finance nor Gramercy Realty is a separate legal entity but are divisions of the Company through which the Company's commercial real estate finance and property investment businesses are conducted.
