LONDON, Sept 12 (Reuters) - Britain's blue-chip index rose by midday on Friday, buoyed by commodity and travel sector gains, while long-suffering banks pushed higher on hopes U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers (News) could be rescued. By 1119 GMT the FTSE 100 had added 52.0 points, or 1 percent, at 5,370.4, a gain of 2.5 percent on the week although the market remains down nearly 17 percent for the year. Futures for U.S. indexes also pointed to a mostly higher open across the Atlantic, as Lehman and U.S. officials discussed a number of options for the stricken bank, including a complete sale, sources with direct knowledge of the talks said late on Thursday. Barclays gained 2.4 percent, seemingly shrugging aside the talk it could be involved in a rescue for Lehman, while Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered all added between 1.6 and 3.4 percent. 'It's simply a relief rally after New York turned around dramatically overnight, although I don't believe it. I think it's going to prove to be short-lived with the banks having further to come down,' said David Buick of BGC Partners. 'We're still going to be bouncing around like a cork in the ocean over the next few months,' Buik added. Oil heavyweights BP and Shell added 0.5 percent and 0.7 percent respectively as U.S. crude prices recovered to above $102 a barrel and the markets kept a watchful eye on the path of Hurricane Ike. As metal prices rose, mining stocks also supported the upside, with Eurasian Natural Resources, Xstrata tacked on 5.9 percent and 7.2 percent respectively after the collapse of Britain's third-largest tour operator, privately-owned XL Leisure, reduced competition in the holiday market. 'Gradually the market is going to accept that capacity is coming out of the market -- in banks, tour operators, estate agents. That's really going to be the story over the next six months,' Kavanagh added. But plumbing supplies firm Wolseley was the worst FTSE 100 performer, down 3.2 percent after Citigroup cut its rating for the stock to 'sell' from 'hold' while leaving its target unchanged at 310 pence. The broker noted weaker housing conditions in all of the group's markets, while Collins Stewart started its coverage of Wolseley with a 'sell' rating and 342 pence price target. Retailers suffered again at the end of a week of disappointing trading news and results, with Morrison Supermarkets down another 0.6 percent following Thursday's first-half results, and Kingfisher off 1.6 percent. (Additional reporting by Jon Hopkins; editing by Simon Jessop) tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.comcmrCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
