SYDNEY, Sept 9 (Reuters) - Australian retail sales seemingly rose sharply in July as shoppers spent more on clothes and at department stores, though analysts cautioned that radical changes to the data meant the strength was likely overstated.Tuesday's data from the government showed retail sales jumped a seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent in July, more than reversing a 0.9 percent drop in June and far above market forecasts of a 0.5 percent increase.Sales at department stores surged 7.3 percent in July, while clothing sales climbed 4.0 percent.However, big cuts to the size of the survey meant the figures were more volatile and less reliable than in the past. 'While anecdotes spoke of a rebound in July, they never pointed to anything as strong as this,' said Brian Redican, a senior economist at Macquarie. 'So, taking these numbers with a grain of salt, they likely point to some stabilisation in July rather than a full-blown recovery. I wouldn't be turning cartwheels just yet.' The Australian dollar  hit a one-year low despite the data.A graphic of monthly sales moves can be found on:https://customers.reuters.com/d/graphics/AU_RTL0908.jpgOther figures out on Tuesday showed mortgage commitments were down 23 percent in the year so far, while business activity languished near seven-year lows in August.As a result, investors largely discounted the sales figures and continued to price in at least one more cut in interest rates this year, possibly as soon as October.The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) last week cut its key cash rate 25 basis points to 7.0 percent, the first easing in seven years, saying the economy was slowing enough to curb inflation.  'The housing market is still struggling after previous interest rate rises,' said Joshua Williamson, a senior strategist at TD Securities.The RBA last hiked in March but commercial banks had continued to lift their rates as the global credit squeeze drove up funding costs. 'The combination with weak business data suggests the RBA does have further work to do in actually cutting interest rates and actually easing financial conditions,' Williamson added. Speaking on Monday, RBA Governor Glenn Stevens said last week's easing had gone some way to unwinding the extra tightening from the credit crunch, which had clearly had a dramatic dampening effect on credit growth. Tuesday's figures showed the number of mortgage commitments for owner-occupied housing dipped 0.2 percent in July, just below market forecasts of a flat outcome.That was the sixth straight month of falls and left home loans down 21 percent on July last year.Also out on Tuesday was the National Australia Bank's (NAB) monthly survey of businesses, which showed weakness pretty much everywhere but the booming mining sector.The overall index of business conditions rose to -3 in August, from a seven-year trough of -5 in July, while confidence firmed 2 points to a still low -7. 'The key message is that there has been little improvement in fundamental business conditions and confidence,' said Alan Oster, group chief economist at NAB. 'The focus for the RBA must still be to prevent an overly hard landing,' he added. NAB expects the central bank to cut rates to 6.75 percent by Christmas with further easing to 6 percent by mid-2009.(Editing by Jonathan Standing) . lwCOPYRIGHT
