 The Australian sharemarket is expected to open stronger on Monday due to positive leads including Hurricane Ike crossing the Texas coast without too much regional destruction, and cash metals rising on the London Metals Exchange.Meanwhile, the ongoing Lehman Brothers saga looked to be heading toward some type of compromise, with the US Treasury summoning a number of major commercial and investment banks - along with possible private equity contenders - to look at ways of splitting Lehman's healthy and ailing assets.Locally, the Sydney Futures Exchanges' Share Price Index futures contract lifted 50 points, or 1.02 per cent to 4,975, after local indices made their way back toward the psychologically important 5,000 barrier.CommSec chief equities economist Craig James said the Commonwealth Bank of Australia - the country's largest commercial bank - had made the call that the Australian equities market had bottomed. 'It should be a relatively positive start to the week, there is less gloom-and-doom around, and investors will be scouring through Australian stocks that have been beaten down looking for companies for a long-term hold,' Mr James said. 'Our view is that the share market is pretty much close to the bottom. 'But no one should expect a significant improvement - it's more likely that we're going to be bouncing along the bottom for the next month or so.' Mr James said September and October were notorious months for underperformance in global equity markets. 'Once we get through that, we're going to start to see an improvement in share markets around the world,' he said. Mr James said that while the US markets on Friday were less than enthusiastic and volatile, interest in commodities had picked up again, gold had bounced and oil was relatively stable. 'The greenback also lost a degree of strength on Friday, so it should be good for our resource sector,' he said. On Friday night AEST, the benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 11.72 points, or 0.1 per cent to 11,421.99, but the broader S&amp;amp;P500 index managed to lift 2.65 points, or 0.21 per cent to 1,251.7.The NASDAQ, which features more recently listed giants, also closed in the black, but by 3.05 points, or 0.14 per cent to 2,261,27.The redeeming feature of all three major indices was they plunged and recovered in volatile manner, until all three closed just about flat.In economic news, the upcoming week features few economic highlights save for Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens giving another speech on Wednesday, while the minutes of the previous RBA board meeting are to be released on Tuesday.The US Federal Reserve announces its latest interest rates decision on Wednesday morning AEST, with Mr James saying that he expects the Fed to keep rates on hold. 'But people will look closely at the statement to determine the likelihood of the next move,' he said. 'I think the statement is probably going to be more neutral than anything else, suggesting there still are risks and that the Fed is not wanting to leave interest rates on hold for too long due to fears of higher inflation.' Mr James said the CBA considered the Australian dollar to have 'fallen too far too fast', and that the US dollar had 'soared too far too fast'. 'The Aussie dollar is now going to consolidate probably somewhere between the 81 cent to 84 cent level, and it may rise even further - particularly if the Fed comes out with a more dovish statement,' Mr James said. Australia's major equities market closed higher on Friday, with the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 spiking 89.521 points, or 1.86 per cent to 4,903.8, while the broader All Ordinaries index jumped 85.632 points, or 1.76 per cent to 4,957.1.
