Markets across the region fell hard in early trade, as the bold 85 billion dollar US bailout of insurance giant AIG failed to calm worries that other stalwart firms would be brought down in the growing storm. Hong Kong was off 5.3 percent, Japan shed 3.2 percent, Australia dropped 3.5 percent and Taiwan was down 4.5 percent. The declines tracked another session of woe overnight on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones dropped 4.06 percent and the Nasdaq lost 4.9 percent. 'The market is trading under the assumption that every financial institution is going under,' said Michael Petroff, portfolio manager for Heartland Advisors. 'It's now emotional,' he said. 'People have removed some part of the fundamentals and are only trading on momentum.' Shares in Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs -- the last two major Wall Street investment banks standing following the recent upheavals -- plunged dramatically in US trade, dropping 24 and 14 percent respectively. The  and  reported that Morgan Stanley, whose stock fell to its lowest level since 1998, was mulling a merger with Wachovia, a US commercial bank. Meanwhile Britain's biggest mortgage lender HBOS reached a quick deal Wednesday to merge with rival Lloyds TSB. Many market-watchers have blamed short-sellers for driving down the market, and the US Securities and Exchange Commission announced new restrictions effective Thursday to limit the practice. Traders said the worry was turning into panic, following this week's collapse of Lehman Brothers and the US government's takeover of AIG. Some compared the crisis to the 1907 panic that saw a series of bank failures. The dollar fell further in early Tokyo trade, changing hands at 104.77 yen from 104.91 in New York. The euro strengthened to 1.4380 dollars from 1.4344 and edged up to 150.63 yen from 150.50. Jittery investors fled to gold for safety. Spot gold was up more than 80 dollars in Hong Kong, with prices around 868 dollars an ounce. The Bank of Japan injected emergency funds into the markets for a third straight day, putting in 1.5 trillion yen (14.4 billion dollars) to try to end the turbulence. 'The selloff is likely to continue,' said Castor Pang at Sun Hung Kai Financial in Hong Kong. 'It's hard to say when it's going to end, as the global turmoil has yet to settle.' Chinese stocks were down 3.6 percent and Singapore was off 3.5 percent, a day after the market's lowest close in more than two years. South Korea opened off 2.7 percent, Thailand was down more than 2 percent and Malaysia was off 3.1 percent. There were also sharp tumbles overnight in Europe. The FTSE 100 in London lost 2.25 percent, the CAC 40 in Paris dropped 2.1 percent and in Frankfurt, the DAX was off 1.75 percent. - Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this report - 
