 LONDON, Sept 1 (Reuters) - Britain's leading shares index fell early on Monday, snapping a three-day winning run, as fears of a deeper and longer UK slowdown weighed on banks, while weaker metal prices hit mining stocks. By 0751 GMT, the FTSE 100 was down 48.9 points, or 0.9 percent at 5,586.7, after gaining 4.2 percent last month. The UK benchmark is still down nearly 13 percent so far this year. UK Finance Minister Alister Darling said on Sunday that Britain's economic downturn was likely to be deeper and last longer than originally feared and it might turn out to be the worst for 60 years. [ID:nLU732328] Banks fell, with Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HSBC , HBOS , Lloyds TSB and Standard Chartered losing 0.5 to 2.2 percent. 'The outlook for the UK economy over the next 12 month is pretty grim without a shadow of doubt. Whether it will be as bad as Darling said it could be is another matter,' said Peter Dixon, UK economist at Commerzbank. 'Stocks are lower everywhere. We have got oil a little bit firmer ... We also had a pretty weak end to the day on Friday in the U.S. which is also driving everything lower. The whole outlook at the moment is the credit crunch, which is making its presence felt in the real economy and the equity market.' In Europe, Commerzbank agreed to buy Dresdner Bank from Allianz in a $14.5 billion all-Germany deal that will break the country's banking mould and cost 9,000 jobs. [ID:nLV085611] U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers , meanwhile, has 'intensified' talks with Korea Development Bank to raise as much as $6 billion in a share sale that could be concluded this week, the Sunday Telegraph reported. [ID:nSEO87363] On Friday, U.S. stocks tumbled, led by lower tech shares after computer maker Dell warned that companies worldwide are cutting back on technology spending. The U.S. market will be closed for a holiday on Monday. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei  lost 1.8 percent on Monday. London Stock Exchange shed 3.2 percent. The Financial Times said the bourse will introduce on Monday deep fee cuts and incentives for traders in the latest sign Europe's exchanges are ratcheting up efforts to defend themselves against a wave of new entrants in equities trading. A survey by property consultant Hometrack showed on Monday British house prices fell for an 11th straight month in August to stand 5.3 percent lower than a year earlier. [ID:nLT573640] UK manufacturers were also bracing for a sharp fall in orders and weaker profit margins as a stagnant economy took its toll, a survey by the Engineering Employers Federation showed. [ID:nLT601039] Property groups, retailers and consumer-related stocks all suffered, with British Airways down 2.1 percent, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer dropping 2.4 percent, Enterprise Inns losing 3.8 percent and British Land down 2 percent. MINERS FALL Miners fell along with weaker metal prices. BHP Billiton , Anglo American , Xstrata , Ferrexpo , Antofagasta and Kazakhmys slipped between 1.1 and 1.7 percent. Rio Tinto eased 1.2 percent. The president of Chinese aluminium maker Chinalco said the group may increase its minority stake in the miner if market conditions are right, but has no timetable for such a move. [ID:nSHA37236] Energy stocks were mixed, with crude prices rising more than $1 after energy firms in the U.S. Gulf shut down nearly all offshore oil output and a host of flood-prone coastal refineries ahead of Hurricane Gustav. Royal Dutch Shell and BP were flat, while BG Group and Cairn Energy lost 0.1 to 0.7 percent. Petrofac was one of the seven gainers on the index, up 2.8 percent. The oil services firm and Mubadala Petroleum Services Company LLC announced a plans to set up a joint venture company, Petrofac Emirates LLC. (Editing by Chris Wickham)tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.comvsCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
