(RTTNews) - As investors worry about the health of the credit markets ahead of the House's vote on the government's $700 billion rescue plan, stocks continue to show substantial weakness in early afternoon trading on Monday.Top economic leaders urged Congress to pass a $700 billion Wall Street bailout Monday, as pressure is being placed on policymakers to pass the largest government intervention in the U.S. economy since the Great Depression.Following round-the-clock negotiations that took place throughout the weekend, the U.S. Congress and the White House approved a $700 billion rescue plan for the ailing U.S. financial industry on Sunday as part of efforts to avert a global financial meltdown.Democratic and Republican leaders worked through the night over the weekend to modify a plan put forth by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to remove distressed mortgages and similar toxic assets from the books of banks and other financial firms.The problems in the financial markets were underscored when Citigroup (C) announced earlier in the day that it is acquiring the banking portion of Wachovia (WB   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating). The news comes after federal regulators seized Washington Mutual (WM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) on Thursday and struck a deal to sell the bulk of its operations to JPMorgan Chase (JPM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating).The weakness in the financial markets has spread overseas as well following the bailout of Fortis by the governments of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg and the seizure of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley by the U.K. government.While most of the focus today has been on Capital Hill, the Department of Commerce released its report on personal income and spending in the month of August, showing that income increased by much more than expected while spending unexpectedly came in unchanged.Despite the increase in total personal income, disposable personal income, which is personal income less personal current taxes, fell by 0.9 percent in August. This marked the third consecutive monthly decrease in disposable personal income.The drop in disposable personal income came amid a continued decrease in the amount of rebate checks sent out by the government as part of the economic stimulus plan.Commenting on the economic data, Brian Bethune, chief U.S. financial economist at Global Insight stated that the economy has been 'battling recessionary forces' for many months, and the pressures in the financial markets 'is an additional shock that will play out to drive the economy underwater in the second half of 2008.'Bethune added, 'This can no longer be described euphemistically as 'downside risks to growth' - it is a recession reality that needs to be confronted with a more aggressive policy response.'Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve and central banks around the world announced additional liquidity injections into the severely strained markets Monday. The massive liquidity injections are being undertaken as short-term funding markets remain under stress.There will be a sizeable increase in swap limits with a number of central banks, including the Bank of Canada, Bank of England, Bank of Japan, National Bank of Denmark, European Central Bank (ECB   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating), Bank of Norway, Reserve Bank of Australia, Bank of Sweden, and Swiss National Bank. As of Monday, swap lines have been opened to a total of $620 billion, from $290 billion previously.While most stocks are trading on the downside, the Nasdaq is underperforming the other averages, hurt by a 13.7 percent decline by Apple (AAPL   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating). The weakness in Apple comes after downgrades by RBC Capital and Morgan Stanley. In recent trading, the major averages have moved back to the downside, with the Nasdaq and the S&amp;amp;P 500 both setting fresh intraday lows. The Nasdaq is down 102.51 at 2,080.83 the S&amp;amp;P 500 is down 47.85 at 1,165.16 and the Dow is down 298.92 at 10,844.21.Sector NewsResource stocks are turning in some of the worst performances, as fears of a global slowdown send commodity prices lower. Steel, oil and oil service stocks are some of the hardest hit. The Amex Steel Index is down 12.9 percent, the Amex Oil Index is down 7.5 percent and the Philadelphia Oil Service Index is down 8.8 percent.Disk drive stocks are also seeing significant selling pressure, hurt by a 32.4 percent drop by Qimonda (QI   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating). The Amex Disk Drive Index is falling 8 percent, adding to a notable decline seen on Friday. With the drop, the index has set a four-year intraday low.Telecommunications stocks are also showing considerable weakness, with the Amex Telecommunications Index falling 7.5 percent. The index is adding to a loss posted in the previous session, setting an eight-month intraday low earlier in the session.Amid concerns over the health of the credit markets and Wachovia's recent troubles, the financial sector is also sharply lower, including both bank and brokerage stocks. The Amex Securities Broker/Dealer Index is down 5.9 percent, compared to a 6.8 percent decline by the KBW Bank Index.Within the financial sector, National City (NCC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is one of biggest losers, as investors worry that it will become the latest victim of the credit crunch. Nonetheless, an Oppenheimer analyst upgraded the stock to an Outperform rating, stating that the sell off is unwarranted. Shares of National City are plunging 46.1 percent.Other stocks that are showing weakness include networking, semiconductor and internet stocks. The Amex Networking Index is down 5.1 percent, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index is down 4.8 percent and the Amex Internet Index is down 5.7 percent.Stocks In The NewsAmong individual stocks, Circuit City (CC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is seeing significant selling pressure despite reporting a narrower than expected second quarter loss. Excluding one-time items, the company reported a loss of $1.00 a share, while analysts were looking for a loss of $1.04 per share. Further, the company withdrew its previously given fiscal 2009 forecast, citing new initiatives and a comprehensive review, which is currently ongoing.Shares of the specialty electronic retailer are currently down 10.2 percent, extending a recent trend lower. Earlier in the session, the stock set a multi-year intraday low.Walgreen (WAG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is also posting a substantial loss. The stock is down 4.4 percent after setting a five-year intraday low. Earlier in the day, the company reported 11.7 percent fourth quarter profit growth, bolstered by strong cost control measures and higher prescription sales.On the other hand, dELiA*s, Inc. (DLIA   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is showing considerable strength after Foot Locker (FL   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) said that it will buy the teen retailer's marketing and CCS direct-to-consumer business for $102 million in cash. The stock is up 22 percent, although it has come well off of its intraday high.Other MarketsStock markets across the Asia-Pacific region closed lower on Monday, led by Hong Kong and India. The stock markets in China, Malaysia, and Taiwan remained closed on account of public holidays. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index closed down 1.3 percent.The major European markets are also trading lower on the back of incremental bad news on the financial sector. The French CAC 40 Index closed down 5 percent, compared to a 4.2 percent drop by the German DAX Index. The U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index ended the day 5.3 percent lower.Meanwhile, treasuries continue to show strength in early afternoon trading, although the benchmark ten-year note has moved off of its intraday high. Subsequently, the yield on the ten-year note is currently down 17.7 basis points at 3.65 percent.For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights ReservedMore News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
