TORONTO - Despite a small uptick in Canadian retail sales in July, the retail sector is not likely to heat up any time soon, economists say, pointing to weakening consumer confidence, cooling housing and labour markets and a volatile worldwide financial sector.Sales rose 0.1 per cent to $36 billion in July, as a decline in the automotive sector was offset by higher sales in most other sectors, Statistics Canada reported Monday.Excluding price variations, retail sales were flat after declining in the previous two months, the agency said. 'The month-over-month increase was pretty small' in July, said James Marple, an economist with TD Bank.Retail sales have been slowing for the last three months and look set to keep on slowing for the remainder of the year, he said in an interview.Canadian consumers, he said, are becoming increasingly concerned about the economic outlook, given the turmoil in financial markets following the collapse of several U.S. investment banks, the bailout of U.S. mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and insurance giant AIG, and the worldwide credit crunch.Back in July, said Marple, 'we still had a labour market that was growing. Before that we had seen pretty strong income growth.' The real concern now is that 'we've seen that the housing market is cooling, the labour market is cooling. That points to slower retail sales going forward,' he said. Commented BMO Capital Markets economist Douglas Porter, 'while close to expectations, this report signals that the underlying trend in Canadian consumer spending is losing momentum before our eyes.' Total retail sales were higher by 4.9 per cent compared with a year earlier, or by 7.7 per cent excluding the vehicle industry.However, the numbers 'continue to be flattered by rising prices... as sales in volume terms were flat after declining in each of the two previous months,' Porter noted, adding that 'the omens don't look good for a quick snap-back.' The Canadian dollar closed 1.53 cents ahead at 96.77 cents US on Monday, the highest since early August, as the U.S. buck fell against other major currencies. The U.S. dollar closed at C$1.0334 , down 1.66 cents, 
