The Australian dollar gained after falling to new lows against its major counterparts during early European deals on Monday. The Australian dollar slumped to new lows against its major counterparts today after the release of the minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's September 2 meeting that showed the central bank lowered interest rates earlier this month to avoid the danger of a sharp economic slowdown. The board members saw opposing forces working on the economy, with tight financial conditions weighing on consumer spending and confidence and strong demand for Australia's resources boosting business investment and incomes. The members felt a loosening of monetary policy was in order, but that the timing was delicate.At the meeting, the RBA reduced borrowing rates for the first time in seven years, cutting the overnight cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.00 percent. The board also signaled that more interest rate reductions were not likely to come in rapid-fire succession. 'As inflation needed to fall a significant way to be consistent with the target, policy could need to be on the restrictive side of normal for some time ahead,' the minutes said.The Aussie dropped to 13-month lows of 0.8396 against the Canadian dollar and 0.7855 against the US dollar before gaining ground by about 4:15 am ET Tuesday. Currently, the Aussie-dollar pair and Aussie-loonie pair is worth 0.8516 and 0.7937, compared to Monday's closing values of 0.8068 and 0.8640, respectively.The US CPI report for August and the NAHB housing market index for September are expected to influence trading in the upcoming session.At about 2:15 pm ET, the FOMC is scheduled to announce its interest rate decision. Analysts widely expect the Fed to leave interest rates unchanged at 2%.The Australian dollar edged down to a new multi-year low of 81.47 against the Japanese yen by about 3:25 am ET Monday. Thereafter, the Aussie gained ground and is presently trading at 82.60 against the yen. The Aussie-yen pair closed yesterday's trading at 84.45. 1 2 Next Page 
