U.K. stocks rallied on Monday on relief over the U.S. government's plan to seize mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, although progress was interrupted for most of the day by technical problems at the London Stock Exchange.Shares resumed trading at 4 p.m. after a six hour-and-forty-five minute halt.The London Stock Exchange suspended trading after experiencing connectivity problems with some clients. Shares in the LSE ended up 5.5%, off earlier highs.The FTSE 100 closed up 3.9% at 5,446.30, ending pretty close to where it was before the trading halt.Other European and U.S. shares performed strongly on the back of news of the bailout. See Europe Markets. See Market Snapshot.'Bottom line, there's a chance that -- if the concerns about the U.S. mortgage market have been addressed -- then it's the beginning of the end to liquidity constraints,' said John Haynes, senior equity strategist at Rensburg Sheppards.'It's a necessary but not sufficient condition. There is a possibility that this is the cathartic event that finally puts the end to liquidity conditions remaining too tight for economic growth. If that is the case, then people will start to become confident in taking bets and people will respond to that.'It's too late to stop the global economies from a period of softness but what this possibly does is stop that period of softness becoming a period of retrenchment.Banks upBanks drove the gains.HBOS shares rose 11.4%; Lloyds TSB surged 11.1% and Barclays climbed 11.9%. Other major movers included building products firm Wolseley , which rose 10.7%, and home improvement retailer Kingfisher , up 7.7%.In the mining sector, BHP Billiton climbed 3.3%. The metal extractor said Monday in a letter to shareholders that it is confident in its medium-term outlook and in its ability to consistently deliver future earnings and cash flowOther companies doing well in the commodity sector included Anglo American , up 4%, and Vedanta Resources , up 3.6%, as commodity futures improved.In the pharmaceutical sector, GlaxoSmithKline shares lost 1.6% after a downgrade to sell from neutral at Goldman Sachs.
