LONDON (Reuters) - Oil rose more than $5 to above $100 on Friday on expectations a comprehensive U.S. government plan would help battered financial markets.The U.S. government launched several multi-billion-dollar programmes to guarantee holdings in money-market mutual funds and curb short-selling while developing a more sweeping plan to mop up toxic mortgage debt, sending global markets higher.News of the plan helped push up U.S. crude to a session high of $103.64 a barrel and by 2:45 p.m. it was trading $4.91 a barrel higher at $102.79. Prices were recovering from a seven-month low of $90.51 a barrel on Wednesday.London Brent crude gained $4.65 to trade at $99.84. 'I think oil is up because there is more confidence in the financial markets. There is a feeling that the crisis is bottoming out and some may see it as a good time to buy,' said Gerard Rigby, an independent energy consultant based in Sydney.Flagging oil demand in the United States and other consumer nations, because of high fuel costs and the credit crisis, have sent crude tumbling from a record high of over $147, hit in July. Investors who flocked to commodities as a hedge against inflation and the weak dollar have been pulling out of oil, putting additional pressure on prices.The dollar rose against the yen on Friday on news of the U.S. government plan.SUPPLY CONCERNSContinued concern over supply from the United States and Nigeria also supported crude. 'Traders will continue to alternate focus between the financial markets, which could result in further demand destruction, dollar movements as well as production out of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico,' said Gerard Burg, a resource analyst at the National Australian Bank in Melbourne.Some 93 percent of oil production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico -- the source of one-quarter of the United States' crude output -- remained idled on Thursday in the wake of Hurricane Ike, along with about 14.5 percent of the country's refined fuel capacity.Militants in OPEC member Nigeria said they had attacked another oil pipeline in the Niger Delta. The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), which has declared an 'oil war' against the oil sector and the military, said it used explosives to sabotage a Royal Dutch Shell-operated pipeline at the Cawthorne Channel in Rivers state.Asia's top refiner, Sinopec , plans to reduce crude oil imports by 8 percent to 10 percent from the amount originally planned for the rest of the year, while cutting crude through-put due to ample domestic fuel supplies.(Additional reporting by Fayen Wong in Perth; Editing by Anthony Barker)
