 LONDON, Sept 10 (Reuters) - European shares declined on Wednesday, as miners retreated and banking shares suffered after Lehman Brothers (LEH.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) posted a quarterly loss and announced steps to restructure the company.The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was provisionally down 0.69 percent at 1,147.67 points after falling more than 1 percent earlier in the day. The pan-European index is down nearly 24 percent so far this year.Lehman said it planned to sell a majority stake in its investment management division and spin off commercial real estate assets as the struggling U.S. investment bank fought to raise capital. [ID:nLA171292]Banks were the top negative weight on the European index, with Credit Agricole (CAGR.PA: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) falling 4.8 percent, Dexia (DEXI.BR: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) down 4.2 percent, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) dropping 3.6 percent, Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) slipping 5.3 percent and UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) shedding more than 4 percent. 'There's no direct link between Lehman's problems and Europe, but this is the normal financial reaction,' said Christophe Donay, strategist at Paris-based Kepler Equities. 'It's more bad news. It shows that the fall-out from the credit crunch is far from over.' Concerns about the financial sector's health continued. Credit Agricole, France's biggest retail bank, said it would cut 500 jobs at Calyon, its investment banking unit that has been badly hit by the global credit crunch.Miners suffered, also tracking a decline in metals prices. BHP Billiton (BLT.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Anglo American (AAL.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Vedanta Resources (VED.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Lonmin (LMI.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Kazakhmys (KAZ.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Xstrata (XTA.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Antofagasta (ANTO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Rio Tinto (RIO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) fell between 0.3 and 8.8 percent.Across Europe, Britain's FTSE .FTSE fell 0.9 percent, Germany's DAX .GDAXI was down 0.4 percent and France's CAC .FCHI dropped 0.2 percent.GlaxoSmithKline (GSK.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) rose nearly 2 percent. The company was paying as much as $1.5 billion to develop new drugs against inflammatory disease with Anglo-German biotech company Cellzome, the two groups said. (Additional reporting by Brian Gorman) (Reporting by Atul Prakash) 
