THE dollar has closed stronger as investors' appetite for risk boosted the local currency.At 5pm (AEST), the dollar was trading at $US0.8061, up from yesterday's close of $US0.7954. During the day, the local currency traded between $US0.8009 and $US0.8098. CMC Markets foreign exchange dealer Tim Waterer said the dollar received a boost from the increased appetite for risk that permeated on the share market today. US equities rose late in the New York session after a report suggested Bank of America may purchase troubled US investment bank Lehman Brothers. The local sharemarkets followed this lead, with the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 ending 1.86 per cent up, while the broader All Ordinaries added 1.76 per cent. 'The local bourse was up over 1.8 per cent and that sentiment flowed across to the Aussie dollar,' Mr Waterer said. 'It is not uncommon when the Dow posts a big gain that it does have a positive affect on high-yielding currencies such as the Australian dollar.' Stronger than expected jobs data released yesterday had the market revising its expectations of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) next move on interest rates, Mr Waterer said. Australian Bureau of Statistics data showed the jobless rate in August fell by 0.2 percentage points to a five-month low of 4.1 per cent. 'The strong employment report here yesterday raised a bit of a question mark whether the RBA will cut interest rates again, in October.' 'That has supported the Aussie.' The dollar rebounded against the Japanese yen after finishing yesterday below 86 Japanese yen for the first time since July 2006. At 5pm, the dollar was quoted at 86.71 Japanese yen, up from yesterday's close of 85.28. Tonight's data action includes the European Union finance ministers meeting in Nice, France, while second quarter employment data for the 15-nation zone is released. US retail sales are expected to increase 0.1 per cent in August after a 0.1 per cent drop the month before. The University of Michigan consumer confidence report is set to reflect this improvement in customer sentiment, with economists forecasting the index to rise 0.9 index points to 63.0 points. Mr Waterer said the most important data to be released tonight would be US retail sales. 'The market will be looking for some signs that the US is showing signs of recovery,' he said. 
