SYDNEY, Sept 12 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar held above 80 U.S. cents on Friday, as appetite for riskier assets and higher-yielding currencies received a boost from reports that beleaguered U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers could be bought. * The Aussie rose to a three-week high against the New Zealand dollar, advancing to NZD$1.2351 after retail sales data there pointed to continued weakness in consumer spending and backed expectations that the central bank would keep cutting rates. * In contrast, investors have pared expectations of a rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia as early as October after robust jobs data for August pointed to a strong labour market. The probability of a move next month has diminished to 70 percent from over 90 percent early in the week. * By 9:35 a.m. (2335 GMT), the Aussie was at $0.8029 against the U.S. dollar, up from $0.7972 late here on Thursday, and well off a one-year low of $0.7900 hit offshore. * Against the yen, the Aussie climbed to 86 yen, from 85.57 yen late here on Thursday with a rise on Wall Street underpinning demand for carry trades. U.S. stocks rose on a report in the Wall Street Journal that Bank of America was in talks to buy Lehman Brothers (see and). * But gains in the Aussie dollar are likely to curtailed by lower commodities prices. Australia is a big exporter of commodities and the Aussie has been hurt in recent weeks as investors unwound long commodities/short U.S. dollar trades amid growing worries about global economic growth. * Australian bond futures were lower as safe-haven bids took a breather and investors lowered expectations of an October rate cut. Three-year bond futures were down 0.04 points at 94.405, while the 10-year bond contract shed 0.02 points to 94.335. (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Jonathan Standing) -bhx/bhxCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
