Global share market volatility has continued with Australian stocks plunging today.Local shares fell as much as 4.1 per cent but a late round of buying saw the ASX 200 close down 2.4 per cent lower.Australia's biggest investment bank Macquarie dived more than 23 per cent. Banking analyst George Gabriel from BBY Stockbrokers says local banks are being sold off despite being stronger than their global counterparts. 'They're suffering guilt by association,' he said. The latest big institution to fall is the UK's largest mortgage lender HBOS, which will be sold to Lloyds TSB for about $28 billion.But the Federal Government says there is no suggestion that Australia's BankWest is experiencing the same difficulties as its British parent company, HBOS.Superannuation Minister Nick Sherry says Australian regulators are monitoring the global financial crisis. 'APRA is also in daily contact with the UK financial services authority. There is no suggestion, and I emphasise this there is no suggestion, that BankWest is experiencing any difficulties,' he said. At the close of trade, the All Ordinaries index had lost 118 points to 4,652.The Australian dollar was buying about 79.6 US cents.AsiaMeanwhile, the Bank of Japan has injected billions of dollars into the financial markets for a third straight day.Every sector on the Tokyo Stock Exchange from iron and steel to insurance companies lost value during the morning session. Wednesday's modest gains were wiped out in the first few minutes of trading. The Nikkei Index of leading shares fell to its lowest level in more than three years, but bounced back slightly to close the day at 2.2 per cent down.There was a similar picture across Asia. Brokers said investors appeared concerned that the bailout of the American insurance giant AIG would not be enough to calm the turmoil in the markets. In Singapore, for the second day in a row, hundreds of AIG policy holders queued up outside its offices trying to surrender or cancel policies they now fear could turn out to be worthless.Meanwhile, South Korean shares fell, finishing 2.3 per cent lower. Indian shares followed the trend with the main index opening 5 per cent lower.
