RETAIL sales across Australia rebounded in July but not by enough to threaten the likelihood of further cuts in official interest rates in the near future, economists say.Australian retail trade at current prices rose 0.1 per cent in July in trend terms to $18.232 billion from a downwardly revised $18.206 billion in June, figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) show. The trend estimate rose 3.1 per cent over the year. The figures are the first to be reported by the ABS under changes to the way the sales estimates are complied, after cost cutting at the bureau. The ABS is now focussed on the trend figure of sales because it says the seasonally adjust number is less reliable. nabCapital senior markets economist Spiros Papadopoulos said the trend figure was pretty much as expected. 'We had had a deceleration path in the previous months,'' Mr Papadopoulos said. 'There is no surprise that the trend figure come out around flat.'' However, data released later on the ABS website showed retail trade at current prices rose 1.4 per cent in July in seasonally adjusted terms, and was up 3.5 per cent over the year. That compared to the median economist forecast for a seasonally adjusted rise of 0.5 per cent in the month. The seasonally adjusted figure reflected market expectations of a rebound after a fall in sales in June, Mr Papadopoulos said. 'There was some expectation there would be some bounce back after that last fall in June,'' he said. 'The monthly figure alone suggests a pretty solid start to the third quarter.'' Due to the changes in reporting the retail trade data, Mr Papadopoulos said the central bank would have take into account the extra volatility in the results. While retail sales increased in July, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would not be worried about the rise, Mr Papadopoulos said. 'The RBA would be looking to the medium term trend in the deceleration in domestic demand so far this year,'' he said. 'Given the general slowdown in domestic activity, given this figure is a volatile one, we would have to see two or three months of these figures before we reassessed the outlook.Westpac said that overall the July sales figures confirmed there had been a significant boost in spending due to tax cuts and a fall in fuel prices. 'One off events would also have been a factor, particularly the staging of World Youth Day in Sydney, and possibly the rollout of the iPhone,'' the bank's economists said. 'However, we warn against putting too much emphasis on the magnitude of the July bounce-back in seasonally adjusted sales. 'On the face of it, the bounce would appear to have reversed much of the weakness that had been evident up to June. 'However, the survey changes make it very difficult to assess how much of this might be a by-product of higher monthly volatility due to the survey redesign.'' 
