 SYDNEY, Sept 1 (Reuters) - Australian manufacturing activity contracted for a third straight month in August, caught between the global credit squeeze and rising input costs, a private survey showed on Monday. The Australian Industry Group/PriceWaterhouseCoopers Performance of Manufacturing Index (PMI) rose a seasonally adjusted 0.1 points to 47.0, remaining below the key 50 threshold separating growth from contraction. Production and employment fell again in August, though at a slightly slower rate than in July. New orders fell for a fourth consecutive month, putting pressure on future production. 'Manufacturing is caught in a bind between falling demand and higher input costs,' said Ai Group Chief Executive Heather Ridout. 'The contraction in activity for the third consecutive month is very worrying and the case for cutting interest rates is compelling.' The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) is widely expected to cut its key cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent at its monthly policy meeting on Tuesday, the first easing in seven years. The survey of over 200 companies found many complaining of a weak retail sector; soft housing construction; raw material costs and shortages, especially steel; and import competition. In contrast, infrastructure and mining related demand remained buoyant. The survey's measure of production rose by a slight 0.3 points to 47.4 in seasonal terms in August, with nine sectors reporting production falls and activity up in three others. The new orders sub-index fell by 1.6 points to 43.2, while the measure of employment added 0.8 points to 48.2. The index of input prices rose a further 0.5 points to a high 81.8 with costs rising in all business sectors. Capacity utilisation eased back to 72.28 after a sharp increase in July.(Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by James Thornhill).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
