 AUSTRALIA'S current account balance narrowed as expected in the June quarter, but economists were surprised by estimates that it will detract from second quarter economic growth. The seasonally adjusted current account deficit was $12.774 billion in the quarter, compared to an upwardly revised $19.842 billion in the March quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said today. The result was a little wider than the median market forecast for an $11.9 billion deficit. The ABS also said that an increase of $57 million in the deficit on goods and services, in volume terms (adjusted for price changes), would subtract 0.1 percentage points from the June quarter measure of gross domestic product (GDP). National Australia Bank senior markets economist Spiros Papadopoulos said the negative effect on GDP was a surprise. 'On the volume side, it was not as positive as what we expected,' Mr Papadopoulos said. 'The surprise for us was that we got a small detraction to GDP rather than the positive one that we were expecting.' The ABS releases the June quarter gross domestic product figures at 11.30am (AEST) on Wednesday. Mr Papadopoulos said the current account deficit for the June quarter had improved in line with expectations. 'In terms of the size of the current account, the nominal value - obviously that fell as expected quite significantly given the boost to export prices that we saw in the June quarter,' he said. Commonwealth Bank chief economist Michael Blythe said the data suggested the national accounts figures would show modest growth. 'In terms of our import and export volumes, they are both growing at about the same rate and it looks like they will make a small negative contribution to GDP growth,' Mr Blythe said. 'Despite the strength in the income side of the story, it's going to translate through to fairly weak growth. 'It's mainly a price story at the moment.' Mr Blythe said one of the last remaining indicators of GDP would come tomorrow, with government spending data due out. '(It) is about 20 per cent of GDP so it's an important part of the overall story,' Mr Blythe said. 'Certainly based on what we know so far, a modest increase in GDP looks the best guess.' 
