The Australian dollar has closed higher after concerns about the US government's plan to buy bad debt from US financial firms caused investors to sell the US dollar. At 1700 AEST, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.8399/03, up from yesterday's close of $US0.8328/31. During the day, the local currency traded between a low of $US0.8358 and a high of $US0.8469. The initial confidence in the $US700 billion ($A830.47 billion) package when it was announced over the weekend evaporated overnight to be replaced by doubts about its effectiveness, resulting in a sell-off of the US dollar. There were also fears the proposal, which requires the approval of the US Congress, will place even further pressure on the country's fiscal position. RBC Capital Markets senior currency strategist Sue Trinh said poor sentiment was reflected in weak equity markets and broad US dollar weakness, helping the local currency. 'The market has become skeptical about this US Treasury rescue package,' Ms Trinh said. 'In particular, the financing of that package, and what it's going to mean for the US fiscal balance and government debt.' In line with a weaker US dollar, commodities prices rose during the overnight session - the crude oil for October delivery contract touched $US130 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, while the December gold contract pushed above $US900 a barrel. Moves were limited during Asian trading today as markets awaited further developments from the US, in particular the testimony of US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke. Both men were scheduled to appear before the US Senate committee on banking, housing and urban affairs. The hearing was due to commence at 2330 AEST tonight. There was also some US economic data due out overnight - the July house price index and Richmond manufacturing survey for September - but Ms Trinh said the focus would be on the US Senate. 'It's going to be on the Bernanke and Paulson testimony in front of the senate banking committee and also how equity markets respond generally,' Ms Trinh said. Ms Trinh said she expected the recent trend of US dollar weakness to continue, with the local currency potentially testing $US0.8650 within the week. At 1600 AEST, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index (TWI) was at 66.1, up from yesterday's close of 65.6. 
