LONDON, Sept 12 (Reuters) - British gilts dropped on Friday as investors mulled the future of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers and looked ahead to Bank of England minutes, due next week. At 0901 GMT, December gilt futures were down 52 ticks at 111.64, pushing yields on the 10-year government bond up by 6 basis points to 4.51 percent. 'The gilt market has been driven by the unfolding Lehman Brothers story and the general risky assets story,' Moyeen Islam, gilts strategist at Barclays Capital said. 'It's noticeable though in a week where you've seen the GSE bail-out and Lehman Brothers, the gilt market week-on-week hasn't actually done very much, it's broadly unchanged,' Islam said. Short sterling contracts for December were down by 3 ticks to 94.375. Next week, the Bank of England (BoE) will release minutes from last week's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting, when interest rates were kept unchanged at 5 percent. On Thursday, MPC members and Governor Mervyn King testified before lawmakers and while King expressed reluctance to reduce interest rates, some analysts said gilt markets were discounting future rate cuts. 'With the curve pricing-in cuts by the Bank of England, most people are long already and it's symptomatic of a market which is a little bit overloaded with longs,' Moyeen said. At 1030 GMT, the BoE's Paul Tucker will deliver a speech in London. Investors will also be braced for U.S. retail sales and producer price index data, both due at 1230 GMT. For a today's FX and debt markets diary, including forecasts on key economic data, click on Sterling Euro Debt Dollar U.S. Treasuries Debt reports -------------------- GILT STRIPS DATA -------------------------- Gilt strips data All gilt strips Gilt strips IO Gilt strips PO A list of all the strippable British gilts --------------------- FOR MORE NEWS ---------------------------- Top British news World news UK diary Press reviews New from Reuters Useful Speedguides (Reporting by Golnar Motevalli, editing by Mike Peacock) Keywords: MARKETS BRITAIN GILTS tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com vjt COPYRIGHT Copyright  
