* FTSE 100 rises 1.5 pct after AIG rescue * Financials top-weighted gainers * Miners, energy stocks bounce on firmer crude, metal prices (For a TAKE A LOOK on AIG, double click on [ID:nN13574113])LONDON, Sept 17 (Reuters) - Britain's top share index rose 1.5 percent early on Wednesday, recovering some of the previous two sessions' hefty losses, as embattled insurer AIG secured an $85 billion rescue package from the Federal Reserve.By 0725 GMT, the FTSE 100  was up 73.4 points at 5,099.0 after sinking to its lowest close in more than three years on Tuesday.'I don't think anyone has got any or much confidence in market direction for more than a few days,' said Darren Winder, equity strategist at Cazenove.'Fundamentally, the yield on the market is very attractive. We are running neck-a-neck with the yield on bonds. That's an unusual situation for equities to be. On that basis you will see a lot of value in the market ... We set new lows this week. We still have got a lot of lost ground to make up.'Beaten-down banks charged higher, with Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , Lloyds TSB , and Standard Chartered climbing between 2.9 and 6.0 percent.Barclays agreed to pay about $1.75 billion for some of Lehman Brothers' prime U.S. assets following the U.S. investment bank's bankruptcy filing earlier this week.Insurers also rebounded. Prudential advanced 4.1 percent, Old Mutual climbed 2.8 percent, Standard Life put on 2.5 percent, Friends Provident added 3.4 percent and Aviva surged 4.4 percent.Overnight, U.S. authorities pieced together an emergency $85 billion rescue of insurance company American International Group (AIG) to stave off a bankruptcy that could have thrown world markets into deeper turmoil. [ID:nHKG15677]Wall Street bank Morgan Stanley also posted better-than-expected results late on Tuesday.Energy stocks tracked higher crude prices which rose above $94 a barrel. BP , Royal Dutch Shell , BG Group , Cairn Energy and Tullow Oil were up between 0.9 and 2.4 percent.Miners were also in demand, with BHP Billiton gaining 2.5 percent, Rio Tinto rising 4.6 percent, Anglo American climbing 2.9 percent, Xstrata adding 2.6 percent and Eurasian Natural Resources strengthening 3.6 percent.British Airways was up 1.1 percent after easyJet said the outlook for the financial year ending Sept. 30 remained unchanged. Shares in easyJet gained 4.1 percent.Tesco added 0.8 percent. Britain's biggest retailer announced a new low-cost range of products and price cuts as it fights back against budget supermarket rivals that have eaten into its market share.Within the sector, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer , Kingfisher , Sainsbury and Carphone Warehouse tacked on 0.6 to 3.6 percent. (Editing by Paul Bolding)
