         Disclosure : I&amp;#039;ve just instructed by broker that I wish to subscribe to the open offer.  I realise that potentially (seeing the falls in the US this evening!) the share price might go below the offer price (again!). However, I&amp;#039;ve still decided to go for the offer.  Firstly, my reason for not waiting, is that I&amp;#039;m primarily a LTBH investor and the difference in yield a 5% difference in share price gives, isn&amp;#039;t that high. Admittely every little helps, but I&amp;#039;m hopeless at timing the bottom. Even if it falls 5% tomorrow, that&amp;#039;s still only to the open offer price, then what? MAy go down further, may not. I just don&amp;#039;t know.  But why invest more at all. Here are my reasons...  Firstly, the chart...   http://www.iii.co.uk/investment/detail?type=chart&amp;amp;display=ch...   Apart from a brief dip in 1998, the last time the shares were at this price was in 1997. But, I can hear the bears screaming, the company is in difficulty. Well, the evidence just doesn&amp;#039;t indicate that.   Trading this year  ( http://www.investorrelations.barclays.co.uk/INV/A/Content/Fi...  )  Right through the credit crunch so far...   January :   Group profit before tax was broadly in line with the monthly run rate for 2007.   February :   Group profit before tax was broadly in line with the monthly run rate for 2007.   March :   Following tougher capital markets trading conditions, Group profit for the first quarter was below that of the very strong prior year period.   April :   The profits of Global Retail and Commercial Banking and Investment Banking and Investment Management excluding Barclays Capital for the month of April exceeded those of the prior year period. Barclays Capital remained profitable for the year to date April after reversing in April 0.5 billion gains on the fair valuation of issued notes arising from the narrowing of own credit spreads.   May :   Group profit before tax was well ahead of the monthly run rate for 2007.    Dividends and dividend policy    &amp;amp;quot;The New Ordinary Shares will rank pari passu with the Existing Ordinary Shares ... including the right to receive any dividend payable in respect of the six months ending 30 June 2008. The Board expects to maintain the 2008 interim dividend at 11.5 pence per Ordinary Share (2007: 11.5 pence).  Barclays policy is to pay cash dividends and to grow dividends per Ordinary Share broadly in line with the rate of growth in underlying earnings per Ordinary Share and for dividends to be broadly twice covered by earnings. The Board continues to believe that the policy remains appropriate given the strength of Barclays diversified businesses and the ability to generate sustainable long term returns.  The Board anticipates that, in the short term, underlying earnings per Ordinary Share may be lower as a consequence of the issuance of the New Ordinary Shares. It is the current intention of the Board, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, to  continue the payment of dividends in cash and at the dividend per Ordinary Share levels declared in respect of 2007, until such time as dividends are more than twice covered by earnings.  &amp;amp;quot;  ---  Now the 2007 dividend was 34p per share. With their stated intention of keeping it at this level until profits catch up to give a 2x cover, it admittedly does mean to expect a static dividend for the medium term, however,  at the offer price of 282p per share, that equates to 12% yield .   Taken against the background of generally maintaining pre-tax profits for most months, so far, throughout the credit crisis, I think there&amp;#039;s reasonable (but obviously not guaranteed) grounds to think that they might just manage to pull it off.  Well, that&amp;#039;s my rationale for taking up the open offer.   - venice2001                  
