         venice2001,  nice post.  Just to pick up on this that may have been missed:  &amp;amp;quot; &amp;#039;&amp;amp;quot;The New Ordinary Shares will rank pari passu with the Existing Ordinary Shares ... including the right to receive any dividend payable in respect of the six months ending 30 June 2008. The Board expects to maintain the 2008 interim dividend at 11.5 pence per Ordinary Share (2007: 11.5 pence).  Barclays policy is to pay cash dividends and to grow dividends per Ordinary Share broadly in line with the rate of growth in underlying earnings per Ordinary Share and for dividends to be broadly twice covered by earnings. The Board continues to believe that the policy remains appropriate given the strength of Barclays diversified businesses and the ability to generate sustainable long term returns.  The Board anticipates that, in the short term, underlying earnings per Ordinary Share may be lower as a consequence of the issuance of the New Ordinary Shares. It is the current intention of the Board, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, to continue the payment of dividends in cash and at the dividend per Ordinary Share levels declared in respect of 2007, until such time as dividends are more than twice covered by earnings.&amp;amp;quot;  ---  Now the 2007 dividend was 34p per share. With their stated intention of keeping it at this level until profits catch up to give a 2x cover, it admittedly does mean to expect a static dividend for the medium term, however, at the offer price of 282p per share, that equates to 12% yield.  &amp;amp;quot;    First point.  You talked in earlier posts about investors investing in companies for the rewards, Barclays is about to give old investors money to new investors, they say as much when they say, &amp;amp;quot;The  New Ordinary Shares  will rank pari passu with the Existing Ordinary Shares ...  including the right to receive any dividend payable in respect of the six months ending 30 June 2008 .&amp;amp;quot; - sounds like a kind of sweetener to me.   Regarding earnings, from this &amp;amp;quot; Barclays policy is to pay cash dividends and to grow dividends per Ordinary Share broadly in line with the rate of growth in underlying earnings per Ordinary Share &amp;amp;quot; it could be argued that coupled with this, &amp;amp;quot; The Board expects to maintain the 2008 interim dividend at 11.5 pence per Ordinary Share &amp;amp;quot; that earnings are broardly the same as last year.   BUT  later on they say, &amp;amp;quot; The Board anticipates that, in the short term, underlying earnings per Ordinary Share may be lower as a consequence of the issuance of the New Ordinary Shares. &amp;amp;quot;, does this mean the divi may be cut due to it having to be spread thinner do you think?    Personally, I don&amp;#039;t see the point in calling for capital while at the same time giving capital back.  Anyone done any calculations, ie, how much do we recon will be raised, and how much will be paid out in this interim divi (noting it will be paid out to old and New shareholders), ie, what&amp;#039;s the net gain to Barc in terms of capital and the net loss to shareholders in terms of dilution of EPS?  awbMaven                  
