 Jul 11, 2008 02:00 ET  Ithaca Energy Obtains Bank Commitments forUS$240 Million to Complete Beatrice Acquisition and Fund Near TermProjects, Jacky and Athena   LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM and CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwire - July 11, 2008) -   NOT FOR DISTRIBUTION TO U.S. NEWSWIRE SERVICES OR FOR DISSEMINATION IN THE UNITED STATES   IthacaEnergy Inc. (&amp;quot;Ithaca Energy&amp;quot; or the &amp;quot;Company&amp;quot;) (TSXVENTURE:IAE)(AIM:IAE) and its wholly owned subsidiary Ithaca Energy(UK) Limited, an independent oil &amp;amp;amp; gas company with exploration anddevelopment assets in the UK sector of the North Sea, is pleased toannounce that it has received credit approved offers of finance,conditional upon closing, totaling US$240 million to support theacquisition of the Beatrice oilfield and its near term developmentprojects Jacky and Athena.   The funding represents the bankfinancing required to enable the Company to: a) complete theacquisition of the Beatrice oilfield which produces approximately 1,800barrels of oil per day (bopd); b) fund the development of the Jackydiscovery which is expected to deliver first production at the end of2008 through the Beatrice facility; and c) fund the further developmentof the Athena field where production is anticipated to commence at theend of 2009 through a Floating Production, Storage and Offloadingfacility.   Five banks comprising Societe Generale Corporate&amp;amp;amp; Investment Banking; Bank of Scotland Corporate; BNP Paribas;Lloyds TSB Capital Markets and Natixis have each obtained creditapproval for an aggregate of US$ 240 million comprising: (a) aborrowing base facility of US$180 million; (b) a cost overrun trancheof US$30 million, and (c) a pre-development tranche for the Athenaproject of US$30 million that will be added to the borrowing basefacility upon field development plan approval. The banks are nowworking towards finalising transaction documentation and completing anaudit of the bank model.   Steven Turner, Chief FinancialOfficer, said, &amp;quot;Ithaca is delighted to have attracted such a stronggroup of leading banks, each with significant expertise in the UKNS oilsector. Given the prevailing difficulties in the credit market we havebeen particularly pleased with the level of commitments received, thesupport in structuring the deal and the speed at which the banks haveacted. This financing is an important part of the funding strategy ofIthaca as it moves towards developing its core projects.&amp;quot;   Inaccordance with AIM Guidelines, Lawrie Payne, MA Marine Geology(Alberta &amp;amp;amp; Columbia) and CEO of Ithaca Energy is the qualifiedperson that has reviewed the technical information contained in thispress release.   Forward-looking statements   Some ofthe statements in this announcement are forward-looking.Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent,belief and current expectations of Ithaca Energy Inc. or its officerswith respect to various matters. When used in this announcement, thewords &amp;quot;expects,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;believes,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;anticipates,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;plans,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;may,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;will,&amp;quot;&amp;quot;should&amp;quot; and similar expressions, and the negatives thereof, areintended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements arenot promises or guarantees, and are subject to risks and uncertaintiesthat could cause actual outcome to differ materially from thosesuggested by any such statements. These forward-looking statementsspeak only as of the date of this announcement. Ithaca Energy Inc.expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publiclyany updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement containedherein to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto orany change in events, conditions or circumstances on which anyforward-looking statement is based except as required by applicablesecurities laws.   The TSX Venture Exchange does not accept responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this news release. 
