The woman from the FDIC was on the screen, explaining, in what she hoped to be general terms, one of the most recent bank bailouts.  She spoke fast and without the suggestion of punctuation.  She even seemed to continue speaking as she took in air.  I have seldom understood English less.  The more she spoke, the faster she spoke, and the more technical her language seemed to become.  In times of economic turmoil, it might be our duty to pay attention to those in charge of financial indices.  I moved very near the television screen and watched her lips as she explained things: Nothing. No cognitive connection. No vague understanding; just a very dumb feeling. Lots of financial words and phrases have in-house meanings  base points, puts, strike points. But after a few minutes, a word like 'bail' sounded foreign.  I left the interview understanding less than when I had put it on the screen.  What did you say?: The secretary of the Treasury had an extremely difficult time completing a sentence without plenty of help from the 'uh' sound.  The more he spoke, the more frequently he said 'uh.'  He said it so much that I began counting words between 'uh.'  Ten minutes into the presentation, 'uh' began showing up after every third or fourth word.  What else did he say? Couldn't say.  The day before yesterday, I was in the audience when a speaker kept saying 'you know.'  The truth of it  was I did know.  He was going to say 'you know' again.  And then yesterday morning, the three CEOs of the major U.S. car manufacturers appeared before Congress to speak for the future of their companies, to state a case for the dozens of thousands of workers.  And the three of them mostly read from prepared statements.  Lost horizons: This must be the first wave of bad public speaking to emerge from too much time having been spent looking at a screen.  The great fear associated with public speaking is getting lost.  The way I handle this is by planning to get lost and preparing a segment for when it happens.  To speak well, you have to be able to look at human beings.  People aren't that scary.  Try talking to a human in person sometime soon for more than a minute or two. If at first you're nervous, look at one of the human's eyes, then the other.  Many people are pretty interesting in person.  All too often, the world is like an elevator car out there  quiet and nervous.  
