AIG building in New York, NY.  Show Caption  Just before the feds agreed to bailout the insurance giant, AIG had donated money to both parties    The government bailout for American International Group came just weeks after the insurance giant poured $1.5 million into the host committee accounts for the two national party conventions.  AIG is just one of a handful of corporate bailout recipients, or bailout candidates, that donated significant funds to offset the parties, lighting and staging of the nominations of Democrat Barack Obama in Denver and Republican rival John McCain in Minneapolis-St. Paul.  Ford, General Motors, Citigroup and Freddie Mac all provided cash or goods to the conventions, according to a new report prepared by the Campaign Finance Institute and the Center for Responsive Politics, two nonpartisan organizations that track political money.  Overall, the host committees raised $118 million for the two conventions. Obamas party cost $61 million, and McCains coronation $57 million.  Additionally, the federal government allocated nearly $67 million to each convention for staging and security.  The vast majority of the host committee money was raised from the private sector at amounts well above the usual campaign contributions limits.  Convention host committees are exempt from those caps and from a federal ban on labor and corporate donations  providing the host committees one of their rare opportunities to play heavily in the presidential campaign.  The Republican host committee raised 87 percent of its money from donations from individuals of organizations that gave $250,000 or more, the study found. About 44 percent of that came from 15 donors who contributed from $1 million to $3 million.  The Democratic committees report showed that 72 percent of its funds came from such big donors. About 23 percent of that came from a dozen big donors who gave from $1 million to $1.7 million.  Roughly two weeks after the back-to-back conventions last summer, the Treasury Department announced an $85 billion bail-out of AIG, which had split its convention donations evenly between the parties.  Freddie Mac, which was virtually taken over by Treasury, donated $500,000, evenly split between the host committees.  Investment banks such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, UBS and now-defunct Lehman Brothers  all of which have either received direct aid from the government or benefited from new lending standards imposed by Treasury and the Federal Reserve  donated $1.5 million to the host committees.  Nearly $3 million in cash and equipment came from the banking sector, including Citigroup and Bank of America. Most of those are now eligible for  or have received  government assistance.  And the latest corporate players coming to Washington with hat in hand  the auto industry  also had a major presence at the conventions.  Ford donated $100,000 to each of the host committees, and GM made available 735 new cars to the conventions for use by elected officials and other VIPs.  'The conventions provided representatives of major corporations and industries with many opportunities to interact with Washington's decision-makers, said Sheila Krumholz, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics. Those conversations may have paid off just weeks later when the government started handing out money to those companies and industries that are struggling.'  Barrington Broadcasting is a member of thePolitico Network.  
