Contrary to claims by Tulsa conservatives, sub-prime mortgages backed by government agencies did not cause the collapse of Wall Street. Here's what did:  In 1999 the Republican Congress repealed the Glass-Steagall Act that required separate roles for commercial banks (which lend money to you and me) and investment banks (which deal in stocks and derivatives).  Before the repeal, commercial banks (BOk, for example) could not take high risks with the money we deposit in them. That's why the government (Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.) agrees to guarantee our deposits.  Investment banks (such as the failed Lehman Brothers) take high risks for people who gamble on the stock market. After the repeal of Glass-Steagall, commercial banks were allowed to operate like investment banks. Examples are Washington Mutual, which gambled recklessly and went bankrupt, and Wachovia, which was rescued by Wells Fargo, with taxpayer help.  Next, in April 2004 the Securities and Exchange Commission allowed investment banks to buy and sell bundles of mortgages worth 30 times as much as the banks had on deposit. Previously, they were limited to a ratio of 12 to 1. This gambling with borrowed money inflated the housing bubble at enormous risk. The SEC and Alan Greenspan, then chairman of the Federal Reserve, had argued that the banks could be trusted to invest wisely, without regulation.  Greenspan now admits that he and the SEC were wrong. All this happened when ultra-conservative Republicans controlled the government.  We moderates and our grandchildren will pay for their mistakes.  Bradley C. Byers, Tulsa  Letters to the editor are encouraged. Each letter must be signed and include an address and a telephone number where the writer can be reached during business hours. Addresses and phone numbers will not be published. Letters should be a maximum of 200 words to be considered for publication and may be edited for length, style and grammar. Letters should be addressed to Letters to the Editor, Tulsa World, Box 1770, Tulsa, Okla., 74102, or send e-mail to  letters@tulsaworld.com.  PDF FormatPrint  Email Story  Comment   RSS  Bookmark  If you would like to bookmark this article you will need to Login to your tulsaworld.com account  Reader Comments  Add your comment  24 readers have commented on this story so far. Tell us what you think below!  We need your help  Thank you to everyone who has registered with tulsaworld.com. We have seen an increase in the number of readers' comments on stories, and people always tell us they keep coming back to see your reactions to the news.  But with that increase, we are seeing more people violating the terms and conditions when it comes to what is allowed in comments. Please help us by clicking the 'Report this Comment' link next to a comment when you see one that is out of line. To review what is allowed and what is not, go to our terms and conditions. Thank you.  -- Web Editor Jason Collington  Be happy, Tulsa (12/27/2008 3:21:46 AM)  Mister Byers, good letter, sir. But just wait a little while, when we'll hear from all the wing-nuts who blame everything on Barney Frank.  Truth Patrol, Tulsa (12/27/2008 5:52:01 AM)  That's a nice fantasy, Bradley, but the FACT is that 'Tulsa conservatives' aren't the ones saying that. The people saying that are the EXPERTS and the MEDIA.  Your conspiracy theory shows you are about as 'moderate' as the Pope is atheist.  Tell Sackett, (12/27/2008 6:29:20 AM)  1999? Hmmm... That's when that ultra-conservative Clinton was President wasn't it? It's his fault, since he was President at the time. And NAFTA was passed at his urging, Bush the first couldn't get it done.  Michael Phillips, Tulsa (12/27/2008 6:56:58 AM)  At least part of the problem is that mortgages were given to borrowers who couldn't afford to pay them. The reason some couldn't afford to pay for them is because they were less than honest when reporting their personal income. This had to do with relaxed regulations, but nothing at all to do with the Glass-Steagall Act.  Bucky the Cmmoner, (12/27/2008 7:09:22 AM)  Remember the story where; 'Jesus first called them hypocrites, and then asked one of them to produce a Roman coin that would be suitable for paying Caesar's tax. One of them showed him a Roman coin, and he asked them whose name and inscription were on it. They answered, 'Caesars,' and he responded Give to Caesar what is Caesars, and give to God what is Gods. Only problem is is this;  In those days Caesar had a face. Now our 'Caesar'  does not have a public face. But he/she who do have 'the gold rule.' in spite of their not having a public face. And we commoners are the same as then too. We still worship money where the real Golden Rule is;  Them that's got the Gold, Rule!  zzx375, BA (12/27/2008 7:20:23 AM)  The key word here is 'blame'. Great. Blame Bush, blame Barney Frank, blame Barney the dinosaur.  They can all make great speed bumps when thrown under the bus.  I submit that fix is the new by-word. OK, the bus is broken let's fix it (and please, no more chicken-little fixes) and get it running again.  Dr. Strangelove, Tulsa (12/27/2008 8:19:42 AM)  Bradley Byers is dead on correct, like it or not. It's no coincidence that right now virtually every official involved in administering the TARP has an investment company background. Shockingly (sarcasm) all the investment banks have now been allowed to convert to bank holding companies (commmercial banks) so they can access federal $$.  Not much was made of the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (which repealed Glass Steagall) back in 99'. It was one of the last acts of that Republican congress, and Clinton signed it because he was beholden to the same special interests as they were at the time. It was a quiet bill and I don't think most of the general public really understood the ramifications of what was getting ready to happen (heck, commercial bankers at the time were having trouble understanding it).  It opened the floodgates to a variety of problems in the financial industry too numerous to list here. It's the genesis of the whole mess.  Bville Yellow Dog, Bville (12/27/2008 8:31:08 AM)  'The reason some couldn't afford to pay for them is because they were less than honest when reporting their personal income.'  No it's because the banks quit asking and checking... and the mortgage brokers could care less because they got paid the day the mortgage was signed.  Poor helpless banks NOT.  Dr. Strangelove, Tulsa (12/27/2008 8:58:42 AM)  Actually BYD, in most instances, a traditional 'bank' was never involved. The mortgage brokers had a non-bank investor pool. Had those loans been subject to conventional bank underwriting standards most of them would have never been done.  Hijinx, (12/27/2008 9:50:31 AM)  Great letter Bradley and you and the Doc are right on the money. Clinton was wrong sign off on it but the GOP made the changes in their zeal to deregulate.  Popeye, T-Town (12/27/2008 10:22:42 AM)  Avast, Wimpy (Bradley)! You've beached us on Fantasy Island!  He said, she said and 'he hit me first' does little to resolve this mess. Suffice to say that everyone involved in this fiasco -- and remember it's been in the works for years -- is NOT a public servant by definition.  Further, there is plenty of blame to go around. Every borrower that reached further than they knew they should, lied on their applications, or took out a loan they KNEW they shouldn't have (ARM, Interest Only, Sideshow Tent Special) is just as guilty as anybody!  We did to ourselves what Bin Laden could only dream of. Now, in the aftermath, we point our broken fingers at each other and cry foul! Pitiful!  Karl, Tulsa (12/27/2008 11:30:37 AM)  I think Brad is right. Look at this info:  Federal Reserve Board data show that:  More than 84 percent of the subprime mortgages in 2006 were issued by private lending institutions.  Private firms made nearly 83 percent of the subprime loans to low- and moderate-income borrowers that year  Between 2004 and 2006, when subprime lending was exploding, Fannie and Freddie went from holding a high of 48 percent of the subprime loans that were sold into the secondary market to holding about 24 percent, according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance, a specialty publication. One reason is that Fannie and Freddie were subject to tougher standards than many of the unregulated players in the private sector who weakened lending standards, most of whom have gone bankrupt or are now in deep trouble  Fannie and Freddie, however, didn't pressure lenders to sell them more loans; they struggled to keep pace with their private sector competitors. In fact, their regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, imposed new restrictions in 2006 that led to Fannie and Freddie losing even more market share in the booming subprime market.  What's more, only commercial banks and thrifts must follow CRA rules. The investment banks don't, nor did the now-bankrupt non-bank lenders such as New Century Financial Corp. and Ameriquest that underwrote most of the subprime loans.  These private non-bank lenders enjoyed a regulatory gap, allowing them to be regulated by 50 different state banking supervisors instead of the federal government. And mortgage brokers, who also weren't subject to federal regulation or the CRA, originated most of the subprime loans.  Karl, Tulsa (12/27/2008 11:46:00 AM)  I think it's wonderful that a lot of people are now taking the attitude that 'blame' is passe and that 'fix' is the keyword.  However that 'blaming' started in the LTEs about a week ago with a couple of letters claiming the whole mess was the fault of the Dems. The recent spate of letters pointing out the Repubs involvement was in response to that.  But, I agree, let's try to fix the problem. The first step in fixing a problem is to determine WHAT (not WHO)caused the problem. Brad's letter and my comment above are trying to do that. The problem was not caused by the FMs, it w...
