The widespread and profitable business of financial forecasting took a beating in 2008 as nothing turned out the way any seer predicted. Not only did all crystal balls break down, but some rather bizarre events took place.  Who would have thought in their wildest dreams:   That several blue chip giants would fall in price to the territory of penny stocks. A prime example being General Motors, which recently settled down to $4.50 a share. In that old observation by industrialist Charles E. Wilson that 'What's good for the country is good for General Motors and what's good for General Motors is good for the country' can be revised to 'bad for good.' That U.S. household net worth would plunge by a stunning $7 trillion;  That the interest rate of Treasury bills would plunge to zero, and still savers would keep pouring money into bills, seeking safety over income. Here we have a Treasury bill falling to the status of money under a mattress. The plunge caused yields on money funds holding government securities to fall.  That the 10-year Treasury note would slide to 2.6 percent, the lowest rate in more than 50 years. Who would tie their money up for 10 years at 2.6 percent? Money poured in. Is there no end to public panic? The public probably doesn't understand the odd character of a long-term bond. The more money in, the higher the price and the higher the price, the lower the yield.  That the government would impose a bank-like deposit insurance on money market mutual funds, despite their 35-year record of near pristine safety. This was the government overreacting to public overreaction. What it did was raise public doubt, worry and confusion about putting money in money funds. Trying to fix something that isn't broken is a bad idea. That the government would increase the FDIC insurance on bank deposits to $250,000 (a more-or-less good idea) and then announce that the coverage would drop back to the historic level of $100,000 at the end of 2009 (a bad idea). This flip-flop has added public confusion to public panic.  That the interest rate of bank certificates of deposit would more than double the rate on money-market funds. Traditionally, money funds have beaten bank rates, giving investors reason to chose money funds over bank deposits.  That Bank of America would swallow Merrill Lynch on a Sunday night yet. If someone had predicted that Merrill Lunch would take over Bank of America, well, we might have bought that.  That Congress would take the first step in a massive bailout binge and part with $700 billion to thaw the credit market and ease the recession's ponderous weight.  That mortgage interest rates would hit a 50-year low.  That the Federal Reserve would lower the Fed funds rate to zero percent.  That one money manager would be charged with bilking $50 billion out of clients.  That excessive corporate executive compensation would be finally, officially attacked. It was hit as part of the bailout process.  That gas prices at the pump would drop 50 percent. So some news was good. This is better than a rebate, says Washington-based The Kiplinger Letter.  Well, since anyone can make predictions, let me try a few relatively safe ones:  Life is not going to be much easier in 2009 than it was in 2008. Check tomorrow's column for some New Year's resolutions that may help ease the pain.  Cliff Pletschet's Personal Finance column appears Sunday and Monday. Send general-interest questions to him at P.O. Box 28147, Oakland, CA 94604 or e-mail him at cliffpletschet@sbcglobal.net. Give your name, city and the question in brief form. To subscribe to his quarterly newsletter, Investment Educator, send $20, made out to Personal Investment Education, to the above address. Also, visit our Web site, www.investment-educator.com. The recession will continue well into 2009, possibly lasting the entire year. The stock market may slowly rise, but daily spikes and plunges will continue. Get use to continuing triple-digit flip-flops. Industries such as autos, housing retail and financial services will continue to struggle possibly throughout the year. Consumer spending on luxuries such as extensive travel, spas, pricey dinners, golf outings and expensive entertainment will continue on a downhill course. In this age, cars and electronic devices are not actually luxuries, but sales of those will stay flat to down. Stores that sell goods at a discount and even second-hand stores will continue to beat other retailers. Internet sales will rise. Consumers will be less inclined to buy goods on credit cards. Joblessness could climb to near 10 percent, with companies not launching any hiring until the end of 2009 at least. Home prices and sales will continue to slide. The continued drop in prices could help home buyers, but would adversely affect builders and lenders, and spill over into a fall-off in the sale of appliances, carpeting and landscaping.Life is not going to be much easier in 2009 than it was in 2008. Check tomorrow's column for some New Year's resolutions that may help ease the pain.Cliff Pletschet's Personal Finance column appears Sunday and Monday. Send general-interest questions to him at P.O. Box 28147, Oakland, CA 94604 or e-mail him at cliffpletschet@sbcglobal.net. Give your name, city and the question in brief form. To subscribe to his quarterly newsletter, Investment Educator, send $20, made out to Personal Investment Education, to the above address. Also, visit our Web site, www.investment-educator.com.  Print Email Font Resize 
