Be Wary of Over-Promising Results in This Economic Environment  Recently, I dined at a new restaurant that has received a lot of hype lately. In a bold move during a tough economy, the owners of this restaurant poured millions of dollars into renovating a cavernous space that once was a bank headquarters and restored it to its former glory. The stage was set for a great dining experience.  I walked into the restaurant and the place was buzzing. Not an empty table to be found. I sat down at our table with my wife and another couple, the waiter came right over and went into his well-rehearsed speech about the menu, etc. He highly recommended a couple of steaks that he said 'will blow you away, and look like the steak that tipped Fred Flintstones's car!' Now that must be some steak, I thought. How could I not order it? My wife ordered a salad that the waiter said was 'One of the best Caesar salads you'll ever have!' Now that must be some salad, my wife also thought. And she took his recommendation.  Almost an hour later, the salad arrived. It was a small plate with several, wilted strips of romaine and a blob of dressing on it. Forty-five minutes after that, my steak arrived, delivered on a large, white plate that dwarfed the entre. This was the steak that drew the analogy to the Flintstones? There was more plate than meat, by a long shot. And the waiter, who was quickly grating on our nerves by then, and whose rigid training made him oblivious to our waning dining experience, asked, 'Is everything EXCELLENT?!'  The point of this story is not to help you relive my frustrating meal, but to point out how not to do business. Especially in this economic environment. The new restaurant took extraordinary efforts to create very high expectations -- including the overly aggressive wait staff that promised greatness -- and then delivered a mediocre product. They failed to live up to our expectations. In fact, the only aspect of greatness was their ability to under-deliver.  Your agency is about to enter what promises to be the most challenging year in business in the last 80 years in America. Client retention will come under a magnifying glass more now than in recent memory. One of the easiest ways to keep your clients is to adhere to the old adage of doing more than is expected of you. Yes, just under-promise and over-deliver in your ideas, timetables, budget management, responsiveness, and results. If you do more than you say you are going to do, then you will indeed satisfy your clients. They will re-hire your agency, reward you with additional work, and refer you to other companies.  Of course, if you do the opposite and promise more than you are prepared to--or capable of--and deliver less than your clients expect, then you will enjoy your just desserts.  0 Comments  Note: Comments submitted to Ad Age blogs are posted automatically and will include the name and location with which you registered. Ad Age reserves the right to delete comments that are insulting or personal in nature. Comments may be used in the print edition at editorial discretion. Comments are restricted to 500 words or less.  To submit comments you must be registered. Please Login or Register Now  
