Wednesday, 16 January 2008, 09:18 GMT    Recession fears hit stock markets      Many investors are wondering if stock markets are overvalued    European and Asian shares have fallen on continuing  fears of a US recession  and slowing corporate profit growth.    The UK's FTSE 100 stock index  fell 1.3%  to 5946.40, while Germany's Dax and France's Cac  fell about 1% . Earlier, Japan's Nikkei index had fallen to its lowest in more than two years, closing  3.4% lower  at 13,504.51.    The slide in share prices was triggered on Tuesday by a quarterly loss at US bank  Citigroup  and a report showing weak  US retail sales  over Christmas.  Indexes tumbled on the news, with the UK FTSE 100 index  shedding 3% on Tuesday  and the negative sentiment seeping into  Wednesday .    Analysts warned that more declines may be on the way as concerns about the corporate and economic environment persist.  "The fallout from the Citigroup result is significant," said Trent Muller of ABN Amro Morgan.  "We will see  a bit of panic selling  with a lot of investors taking cash off the table today."    Francis Lun of Fulbright Securities said that problems in the US, where a  slump in the housing market and higher interest rates  have amplified concerns, would continue to stalk the markets.  "American financial mismanagement has brought us to this economic meltdown," Mr Lun said.     Mortgage market     Many investors are now predicting that  interest rate cuts will be needed  to keep the US economy going, and the US dollar fell as a result.  Investors tend to seek out currencies and assets in nations with higher interest rates as that increases their returns.    On Tuesday,  Citigroup  said that it had made a net loss of almost $10bn (5bn) for the last three months of 2007 because it had to cut the value of investments that were linked to the  US housing market .  The bank, one of the biggest in the world in terms of assets, said the loss had been caused by an $18.1bn exposure to bad mortgage debt.  This reinforced the extent of the housing crisis in the US, while spurring worries that other banks were still harbouring undisclosed losses.    On Wednesday, Germany's Dax was trading  down 0.9%  at 7498.20, while France's Cac  shed 1.2%  to 5189.99. Hong Kong's Hang Seng  closed almost 4% lower. 
