For those of you who would like to know, allow me to sum up our current financial crisis. It all starts in the American housing market. Basically, there was the belief that the housing market could only go up. That led banks to offer loans to people who could not afford them, to buy houses (although there were also credit card loans and such). A lot of people thought that they could take out a loan, buy a house, and then use the increasing value of the house against the loan to not only pay for the loan, but make a good chunk of cash on the side as well. These people were not speculators, just ordinary home owners.For a couple years, this thing, the whole sub-loans market(sub-prime, meaning that the people taking out these loans were greater than most acceptable risk), went great. Housing prices went up. And people from all over invested in the banks offering these loans, and in the markets themselves.Long story short, most of the people who took out these loans ended up not being able to afford them, because they were usually more expensive than they seemed. A lot of people defaulted on those loans, because they couldn't afford them, leaving banks and investors with losses.Now, because of the way the market works these days, banks often sell off debts to raise cash, and other investment firms and companies buy them, anticipating long-term profit. So when large numbers of people began to default on these loans, it affected not only the banks who had done the lending, but other investment firms as well. This started over a year ago. People all over started losing money.This also caused a crash in the housing prices in the United States. That meant that people who qualified for regular risk loans, who had put them up against the values of their houses, started to be unable to afford those loans. The housing prices in the United States has crashed in some areas by 50%, a huge drop in the assets of people who own their homes. This was what caused Fanny Mae and Freddie Mac, two huge morgage companies in the United States, to require bailing out from the federal government. The two companies support a /huge/ amount of morgages, and the crashing house prices had left them with nearly a trillion dollars in debt. A bankrupcy claim by either of them could have led millions of homeowners simply without the money to keep their homes. So the Federal Government bailed them out, to the tune of some $200 billion dollars, although it took over said companies. Simply said, they were too big to fail, because their failure would have rocked the entire structure of the American housing market, and put a lot of people out on the streets.But this was just a symptom of the economic problems. A lot of other big companies are in trouble. They were all so invested, either directly or indirectly, in the housing market, that when it crashed, it caused these companies to lose a lot of money. Furthermore, thanks to all the financial instability, it caused the liquidity of credit(that is to say, the ease of which people and companies can borrow money) to decrease. So, other huge investment companies like Merrill Lynch ( a huge investment, insurance and financial firm) Lehman Brothers (investment) and AIG (American International Group, insurance) to respectively be sold, file for bankcuptcy, or require bailout by the federal government.All this is basically costing American Taxpayers billions and billions of dollars. But there's more. All this instability in the markets has caused stock markets to crash. That means more money is being lost. Furthermore, it makes it harder and harder to get loans. Investors around the world are spooked. If you're invested in just about any way, chances are you've lost a lot of money in the last week or two. The best possible way to deal with this is, (if you've got a diverse portfolio), to just ride it out. But a lot of people and investment firms, hoping to make quick bucks, are not diversified, and have all their money invested in one place. So, having already lost cash, or fearful of doing so, they're dumping stock and moving towards "safe" investments, like gold, and oil. That's causing the prices of commodities such as the previously mentioned to jump around like crazy. Of course, this only hurts companies and consumers, and causes further panic, not to mention inflation.Right now, the American Congress is debating whether or not to go through with a plan to stabilize the market by buying out (from big companies) roughly a trillion dollars of debt. Their goal is to take the worst debt off the market to allow some companies some stability, increase credit liquidity, and pick up the stock market. On Friday, news of this plan led to one of the biggest stock market rallies ever. Today, confidence has slid and the markets plummeted again. Basically, this has hit the whole world economy, and taking trillion dollars of bad debt might not be enough (which, by the way, the American government is likely to not get repaid for) and which might take time to pass Congress anyways. I don't think I have missed anything. So far, this is basically something that the world economy could recover from soon enough if investors stopped panicking, if banks made credit more available, and if government act to shore up key companies. However, a lot of real money has been lost, and recovering from all this could take the better part of the next decade, and that's assuming it doesn't get worse.
