House Republicans Criticize U.S. Action on Crisis (Update2) By Brian FalerCopyright by Bloomberg NewsSept. 18 (Bloomberg) -- A group of House Republicans criticized the Bush administration's response to the turmoil in financial markets as ``bailout mania.''``Enough is enough,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas. ``It's time to bail out the American taxpayers from bailout mania.''He said the Republican Study Committee, a group of more than 100 self-described conservative lawmakers, plan to release a letter that asks Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to ``refrain from conducting any additional government-financed bailouts for large financial firms.''``These massive federal bailouts have exposed taxpayers to literally tens of billions of dollars of new risk,'' and created a ``moral hazard where companies are absolved, not punished, for excessive risk taking,'' the letter says.The criticism of President George W. Bush by members of his own party just six weeks before a national election suggests a growing backlash in Congress and the president's increasing isolation as his term draws to a close. Some have questioned whether Bernanke has too much power.Bush, in comments today at the White House, said the administration will continue in its current course.Stabilizing Markets``The American people can be sure we will continue to act to strengthen and stabilize our financial markets and improve investor confidence,'' Bush said.Separately, Republican presidential nominee John McCain called for the firing of Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox, saying he ``has betrayed the public's trust'' by failing to adequately police Wall Street. White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Cox ``has the president's confidence.''The furor over bailouts was triggered by a series of recent actions. The Federal Reserve Board, with support of the U.S. Treasury, invoked emergency powers to lend as much as $85 billion to American International Group Inc. to save the insurance giant from collapse. At the start of the week, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. That followed the bailout of Bear Stearns Cos. in March, and the takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac earlier this month.House Minority Leader John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, declined today to ``second-guess'' the policy makers' decision to take over AIG, saying ``history will show'' whether they made the right call. Boehner said he and other lawmakers are frustrated though that they haven't received more consultation on the decisions from the administration.Seeking Information``I am and all my colleagues here on the Hill are concerned about the lack of information, the lack of consultation that has occurred,'' he told reporters today. ``We are a separate branch of our government. Members are entitled to information.''He said the administration ``refused'' to send someone to Capitol Hill today to meet with Hensarling's group. Asked whether Bernanke is going too far in using public money to shore up private companies, Boehner said: ``I have concerns as do all of my colleagues.''House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, expressed concern that Bernanke may have too much power to decide how to spend public dollars.``I think Chairman Bernanke is a responsible and thoughtful person,'' said Frank. ``But no one in a democracy, unelected, should have $800 billion to dispense as he sees fit,'' he said. ``He can make any loan he wants under any terms to any entity or individual in America.''To contact the reporter on this story: Brian Faler in Washington at bfaler@bloomberg.net.Last Updated: September 18, 2008 13:25 EDTAIG bailout upsets Republican lawmakersCopyright by CNNSeptember 17, 2008  WASHINGTON (CNN) -- Key Republicans on Capitol Hill blasted the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve on Wednesday for orchestrating an $85 billion bailout of insurance giant American International Group, and the White House for not informing them of the plan.Some lawmakers complained Wednesday they didn't know a bailout of AIG was in the works.Meanwhile, Democrats blamed the Bush administration for the financial crisis, while the White House pointed a finger at Congress.The criticism came a day after lawmakers were surprised by the news that taxpayers would again be called on to shore up a member of the struggling financial sector."Once again the Fed has put the taxpayers on the hook for billions of dollars to bail out an institution that put greed ahead of responsibility and used their good name to take risky bets that did not pay off," said Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Kentucky, a member of the Senate Banking Committee.A spokesman for Sen. Richard Shelby of Alabama, the top Republican on the committee, said the senator "profoundly disagrees with the decision to use taxpayer dollars to bail out a private company" and is upset the government has sent an inconsistent message to the markets by bailing out AIG after it just refused to save investment bank Lehman Brothers from bankruptcy."The American taxpayer should not be asked to unwillingly assume the inordinate risks that financial experts knowingly undertook, particularly when taxpayer exposure is increased by the ad hoc manner in which these bailouts have been engineered," said Shelby's aide, Jonathan Graffeo.  Watch how bailout affects taxpayers Republican Rep. Roy Blunt of Missouri complained about not getting a heads-up about the bailout and said House Republicans are struggling to "understand a coherent strategy" about which firms get rescued and which ones don't.Rep. Adam Putman of Florida, the third-ranking Republican in the House, said the cost is "unnerving" and called on the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve "to dispatch an envoy to the Hill to bring members of Congress up to speed.""The communications lines are not operating efficiently," he said.Late Wednesday, the White House agreed to send a top Bush economic adviser and an official from the Fed to brief House Republicans Thursday, according to a House GOP aide.Meanwhile, Congressional Democrats placed the blame for the crisis squarely on the Bush administration, arguing it failed to aggressively regulate the financial industry."The most recent bailout initiated by the Bush Administration -- that of AIG -- is just another example that George Bush is a failed manager," said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-California. "Because of the inattention, or a decision on their part to have crony capitalism in our country, Americans across the country are feeling the pain of this."Pelosi said two House committees would investigate the recent bailouts "to tell us how we can avoid this in the future, what went wrong here and also to look into this issue of fraud and mismanagement" at AIG.White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said Congress could have done more to head off the crisis."I think that Congress needs to take -- before they start throwing arrows -- take a little bit of time for some self-reflection," she said. "But also, why don't we just set that aside for a minute and focus on the fact that we have a crisis that we're trying to manage."Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid -- who also complained that he didn't know a bailout of AIG was in the works -- said Congress won't change laws immediately to address the rapidly unfolding financial crisis because "no one knows what to do.""We are in new territory here," Reid added. "You could ask [Federal Reserve Chairman Ben] Bernanke, you could ask [Treasury Secretary Henry] Paulson. They don't know what to do, but they are trying to come up with ideas."Reid said he will keep the Senate in session through the end of the year so committees can hold hearings and start writing legislation that he said could become law next year."It's a multitrillion-dollar issue that's facing America, and we can't do it in some timeline that is unrealistic," Reid said.Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama on Thursday said the bailout plan must "protect the families that count on insurance" from AIG.He also said the Federal Reserve should make sure the bailout plan protects well-paying jobs and helps Americans pay there bills.At a town hall meeting in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Republican candidates Sen. John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin both called for reforming the financial markets "in Wall Street and Washington," as McCain put it."We're going to reform how Wall Street does business and put an end to the greed that has driven our markets into chaos," McCain said. "We'll put an end to multimillion-dollar payouts to CEOs who have broken the public trust. We'll put an end to running Wall Street like a casino. We'll make businesses work for the benefit of their shareholders and employees, and we'll make sure your savings -- IRA, 401(k) and pension accounts -- are protected." Texas Republican Has Had EnoughWednesday, September 17 2008 @ 08:14 PM PDTCopyright by Justice for None    Sunday, September 07 2008 @ 11:10 AM PDTContributed by: Joey PicadorThe Real NewsI have never posted on a liberal blog before - if this is too long or inappropriate - please tell me - I am not sure what is customary. - I hope I do not insult anyone - I just have to get this off my chest.I have been a long time conservative - a true conservative - and have been horrified by the recent theocratic fascist turn of my beloved Republican Party. I was the Vice-President of the College Republicans in the late 80s at my college.The Palin pick has absolutely horrified me. For the first time in my life - I donated 1000.00 to a political campaign - that of Senator Obama. Indeed, the donate button on the Obama website was so overwhelmed on his servers last night - it took me till 1:29 AM to get through to donate.My entire independent and/or conservative family - as of my conversations with them this AM - sat through the Palin speech last night slack-jawed. I just felt nauseat...
