Many commentators including myself trace the genesis of the current financial trouble to the repeal of the Glass Steagall Act and the passing in 1999 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. A quick background. The Glass Steagall Act of 1933 was passed as a result of commercial bank failures when they took on too much risk causing them to fail (sound familiar?) and take with them their deposits. It kept commercial banks from investing in high risk activities that investment bankstake part in. Part of the ACT was the forming of FDIC government backing for deposits in exchange for not being able to get involved in high risk activities that had led to massive bank failures. The thought was that the deposits of average folks would be protected, giving commercial banks an advantage in obtaining funds which could be redeployed in conservative ways as a foundation for the economy. During the 1990&amp;#8217;s through much lobbying the investment banks, insurance companies and commercial banks were able to convince the government to repeal this, signed into law by Clinton in 1999 after a bipartisan vote in congress that was veto proof. Now in 1999 there was a full on economic change happening to Wall Street as investors were demanding high returns for their capital and were not reticent to move their money if they were disappointed. Hencethe investment banks taking on more leverage and trading inmortgage backed securities backed by sub-prime loans. Now, commercial banks seeing the amount of money being paid for these MBS&amp;#8217;s and having pressure to increase the return they give to investors startedto be tempted.Some started to originate mortgages with questionable underwriting because they could sell these out and make huge profits. Other banks and mortgage companies were formedjust to originate sub-prime mortgages. Still other small regional banks were able to grow exponentially by originating questionable loans.Insurance companies (AIG) started to get in the business too by either trading in these MBS or insuring them. In short, since there was no longer any fire wall between commercial banks, insurance companies and the more risky investments and there was intense pressure to increase returns to investors many companies felt compelled to take on the added risk in order to stay competitive to investors eyes. As this easy credit pushed real estate pricing up well past what average people could afford you had a classic bubble that when popped, started a chain reaction that has taken down investment banks, commercialbanks and 1 insurance company. Readers who have a different understanding of this are encouraged to reply to this post. This is only my thinking onthe subject and I hope others can add or disagree with these ideas. Somewhere in this is a very important point about regulation! Additionally, I have read a really good book called &amp;#8220;Supercapitalism&amp;#8221; by economist Robert Reich. It really puts together much of the economic history into a easily understood framework. I think readers will be surprised by some ofthe suggestions coming from this former member of Clinton&amp;#8217;s cabinet!  
