By Dan Gibson We have all heard about the problems in the banking industry, but has it really bothered anyone? Nope. At least until September 15, 2008 when two of the pillars of the financial world faded into oblivion and raised questions about the mortgage market as a whole.  Founded in 1850, Lehman Brothers was not some regional bank. The fact it was unable to weather the mortgage crisis is an incredibly bad sign because it was diversified across many markets. When it filed bankruptcy, it has $613 billion in bad debt.  The essential failure of Merrill Lynch is even more troubling. Saddled with bad debt, it was thought to have a solid plan for surviving. Obviously, that was not the case. With help form the Feds, Bank of America purchased Merrill for a song at $29 a share.  I cannot emphasize enough that these failures should make you and me nervous. These are huge banking efforts that make much of the financial world go. Combined with the Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae takeovers, the warning lights should be flashing.  The current financial market is an interesting one. We have never seen such a massive meltdown and yet so little a reaction to it. We are seeing events in the banking industry that have not occurred since the Great Depression and nobody seems to care.   How can this be? Ben Bernanke deserves a huge amount of credit. The Fed has been taking drastic action, but with a light touch. Many banks have been taken over, but it always happens over a weekend when media attention is low.  While Bernanke has deftly kept people from panicking and rushing their banks, he can only do so much. The simple fact is mortgage securities are under massive pressures. Credit crunch does not begin to describe the problem.  How bad are things? We have reached a point where it the officers and board of directors of companies might be found liable for investing in mortgage securities because they are such bad investments.  If mortgage securities are viewed poorly, the housing market is in major trouble. With no new money coming in, loans are going to be hard to get. A lack of liquidity will drive prices down and it could get very ugly indeed.  So, are we headed for the second Great Depression? With major banks failing, how can the small guys remain afloat? With no money in mortgages, how will people get cash out of their homes? In short, is this the end of the consumer America?  Liquidity is the key. Keeping banks up and running is the immediate task and the Fed has been doing just that. The latest news that the Fed has managed to get banks to kick in $70 billion for banks in bad shape is just another step to save the industry.  Everything really comes down to Ben Bernanke and the Federal Reserve. If there is anyway to negotiate this mess, I believe he can get us through it. We may see a lot more bank failures, but it may be a health pruning.    About the Author:   Dan Gibson writes for CommercialLoanStop.com - your resource for quick funding hard money loans.   
