         The content is about the recent world.In the US, one of the major stock companies, the Lehman Brothers, went bankrupt lately, the Merrill Lynch, also acquired by the Bank of America, and also the Morgan Stanley's seems to accept loans from one of the major Japanese banks as to increase working capital.But theres unlikely that the essential prices of houses stops falling, even said to be lower further to 20 percent or so. As for the AIG, a major insurance company, I hear the US government will provide the public funds, but I wonder how it will go what if the FRB is stuck as the America is already saddled with huge deficits.You can easily imagine how the index was dreadful as the figure, an unemployment rate, indicated 6.1 percent in the last statistics, and the most observers say it wont recover until 2010, when being asked about the time of the recovery, or the convergence of the instable credibility of the financial market in the US. The U.S was the epicenter of the problem for the sub-prime in the first place, but outstandingly, the shadow of the globalization of financial markets must have been spread throughout a world on the whole.The world stock market has fallen across the board, and is also reflected in the currency, And the Yen is relatively trend higher, is a well-known fact.As for Japan, a new leader, Taro Aso was chosen as the president of the LDP yesterday. However, currently, the politicians concerns are the imminent dissolution in the House of Representatives and the general election is the interest of Nagatacho. Although Ozawa of the Democratic Party is said that he will end combat during this election campaign since this would be the very last battle for him, from our side, they are only taunting us...no matter how the campaign promise (so-called manifesto) sounds nice to us at a first glance, they politicians just only regard it as a political tool, thats all about.How could it be changed? Were any profits returned back to our lives so far? Of course, neither is the Japans own issue when referring to the higher costs of living, to say nothing of the surging oil price, nor has any resources in this nation.And about 80 percent are dependent on external demand for Japan, and it does hit the export companies representing Sony and Toyota, when the US or any other countries begin with the deterioration. And those stocks have fallen across the board as well. Still, it is said up to 60 percent of stock holders in Japans market are the foreigners. I assume that the Japanese stocks are estimated the lower price than the others, besides they charms for the investing the real estates in Japan, and it seems particular. And it helps the lower rate of decline from the beginning of the year compared with the foreign stocks (especially Vietnam and China share).It is obvious that the economy is in recession at present, also the employment rate is not going upward. It is said that the one-third of Japanese workers are not the full-timers (so called the temporary staffs or the part-timers), and more than 10 millions workers (including me) are called the working poor which the annual income is less than 2 million Yen.A gap between haves and have-nots exists for a long period though...who did this? One politician points out Junichiro Koizumi, but I dont think he was the only to be blamed for. I think all politicians should take the joint responsibility for the issue. A gap also generates "the chain of negative", such as the violent crime or the suicide.In Japan, there hasnt occurred bomb attacks taking place such as in Pakistan or in Afghanistan, but the indiscriminate terrorism does occur in a different form like "murderous assailant," in reality, and the crime occurs everyday elsewhere in Japan.What is worse, more than 30,000 people have committed suicide during 10 consecutive years, and I think it comes from so-called "structural distortions" which this nation generated.More than that, what do you make of throwing his presidency away within a year or so whereas the man is a prime minister (the head of state)? Sorry for the criticizing people by name, but couldnt Yasuo Fukuda try a little harder?To say it personally, my true feeling was he had no enthusiasm at all during his office. And so was Shinzo Abe. I cannot help but feel deplorable concerning the issue that those people take responsibility for the Japans politics.And the present United States may be the same. After finishing the Cold War Era between the U.S and the Soviet, also the U.S seemed it had already lost luster after 1990s, compared with the past time when Eisenhower and Kennedy were responsible for the administration back in 1950s and 1960s. Rather Reagan era still had "the strength of the will of America (the solidity), I think. Certainly, it cannot be denied such as the emerging China and India's remarkable economic development has changed the United States itself. It seems Obama has a good sense in his speech, but it is hard to say he could be a charisma in the expecting era just as then J F Kennedy was. And it is questionable that the US can really be stronger, even though Obama will be chosen as a president.Seems I went off on a tangent to a large extent, however, What I meant was the only way is to let politicians change their minds, say, they are the representatives chosen by us. Politicians are just like the businessmen themselves, and do they really want to change the country? ... Just wanted to say, thus I composed how I feel like.          
