 ...The United States effectively nationalizes AIG, a major insurance company.  This is so reprehensible it makes me sick.  I understand that some companies may be "too big to let them fail," but it's maddening to see criminally irresponsible business decisions buoyed up by the US federal government.  Moral hazard, here we come.Jon Stewart nails it:What's the problem?  Debt.  Consumer and corporate debt.  The Wall Street Journal details the disease:Fed and Treasury officials have identified the disease. It's called deleveraging, or the unwinding of debt. During the credit boom, financial institutions and American households took on too much debt. Between 2002 and 2006, household borrowing grew at an average annual rate of 11%, far outpacing overall economic growth. Borrowing by financial institutions grew by a 10% annualized rate. Now many of those borrowers can't pay back the loans, a problem that is exacerbated by the collapse in housing prices. They need to reduce their dependence on borrowed money, a painful and drawn-out process that can choke off credit and economic growth.At least three things need to happen to bring the deleveraging process to an end, and they're hard to do at once. Financial institutions and others need to fess up to their mistakes by selling or writing down the value of distressed assets they bought with borrowed money. They need to pay off debt. Finally, they need to rebuild their capital cushions, which have been eroded by losses on those distressed assets.But many of the distressed assets are hard to value and there are few if any buyers. Deleveraging also feeds on itself in a way that can create a downward spiral: Trying to sell assets pushes down the assets' prices, which makes them harder to sell and leads firms to try to sell more assets. That, in turn, suppresses these firms' share prices and makes it harder for them to sell new shares to raise capital.In other words, there are no easy answers to the crisis, but bailing everyone out of their inane decisions (including mine) is not the answer.I'm not sure what is the answer, but I know one thing: it will hurt, and should.  
