  FRANKENMUTH (WJRT) -- (12/18/08) -- Sergeant Bernhardt Rupprecht is on his way back to Iraq after a pre-holiday visit to his family. But during that visit, he was busy trying to settle a dispute over his car.    Just two weeks ago, Rupprecht was featured in an ABC12 news report.  He was back home in Little Bavaria, helping the family of another Frankenmuth soldier who was badly injured in a training accident.    &amp;quot;When I heard that I was in Iraq at the time,&amp;quot; Rupprecht said.  &amp;quot;My parents told me about it and it broke my heart.&amp;quot;    But while he was home, he was also trying to clear up a dispute with Bank of America -- a dispute which is detailed in a federal lawsuit.     &amp;quot;Bank of America violated, we believe, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA),&amp;quot; said Rupprecht's attorney, Julie Gafkay.    The SCRA protects military personnel from civil action, such as car repossession, while they are in a military action. Gafkay believes Bank of America repossessed Rupprecht's 2004 Dodge Neon while the serviceman was in Iraq.    Rupprecht got a late payment notice after his military pay was not put into his account, and once the money was there, the lawsuit states Rupprecht called from Baghdad.    Gafkay says Rupprecht called on a satellite phone in a combat zone, asking Bank of America to reinstate payments and to take the money he owed from his account.  Bank of America refused.    She says a collection agency, also named in the lawsuit, is trying to collect $11,000.  It's a legal dispute between a soldier and large financial institution that is also getting $25 billion in bailout money from the federal government.    &amp;quot;They are receiving a handout from the very government that he is over there fighting for!&amp;quot; said Gafkay.    A spokeswoman with Bank of America says due to the lawsuit, they cannot make a comment at this time.    Frankenmuth soldier fights back against bank that repossessed his car - 12/18/08 - Flint News and Saginaw News - abc12.com     I am curious why B of A refused to continue taking the automatic payment when the government SNAFU was corrected.  I am also less inclined to care, unless it was five months later or something like that.    However, considering he was overseas in the military, you've got delays in mail delivery along with the already explained screw-up in how his hard-earned pay was deposited.    Sounds like B of A screwed up royally.  And thanks to the &amp;quot;bailout money&amp;quot; they received, they're going to get that additional scrutiny to the things they do for a while now.    I would be curious if another bank could make something out of this.  Offer to buy out B of A's EXISTING loan (if that's possible at this stage), so B of A loses out on the future interest money.  Cut the guy a loan (possibly for a lower rate).  The new bank could get some easy good press.    Wouldn't blame the soldier if he changed where his direct deposit goes after this as well.  Along with his military buddies...
