Michael Marquette: In what can only be described as a momentus day for Australian real estate, most of the country&amp;#8217;s largest lenders have already chosen to pass on the majority of the 1% interest rate cut to borrowers.  The Commonwealth Bank, National Australia Bank and Westpac have reduced their variable rate by 0.8% of the full 1% and Aussie Home Loans signaling that it will pass on a 0.75% reduction, this is the stimulation that the Australian property marketed needed. Therefore, we welcome this fantastic news.  With Treasurer Wayne Swan demanding that Banks pass on the rate cut in full once prevailing conditions allow the magnitude of the cut cannot be understated.  It is clear that the United States, Japan and the European Union are staring down the barrel of recession and the bold move by the Reserve Bank is aimed at doing everything possible to avoid recession in Australia.  With the price of oil plummeting in line with fears of a global recession, inflationary pressures which have existed in the economy are reducing.  With the largest interest rate cut since 1992 and confidence in the stock market eroded, real estate is well placed to benefit as the chosen investment strategy for many. Falling interest rates, increased rental yields, scarcity of housing and the poor performance of the stock market are all positive indicators for property owners and investors.  I believe there will be an increase in the number of self managed super funds (SMSF) set up to invest in property. Many people are concerned and frustrated that so much money has been lost by funds and are determined to be able to exert influence in investing money in the future. This will certainly assist demand in all real estate sectors. Australian property is well placed to do well in spite of prevailing world conditions. Michael Marquette Posted in buying real estate, interest rates, marquette turner, Michael Marquette, real estate news australia, sydney property news&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Tagged: australian economy, cash rate, interest rate cuts, interest rates, Michael Marquette, rba, reserve bank, wayne swan&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;     
