THE Commonwealth Bank will slash at least $370 million off its bottom line, with each tier of the nation's largest bank ordered to cut costs.The CBA's executive committee, chaired by chief executive Ralph Norris, met last week and decided the bank had to reduce costs by 5 per cent, which will result in job cuts. The CBA confirmed the savage cost-cutting was about to begin, but said it had to prepare for uncertain economic conditions in Australia. &amp;quot;Like any business the Commonwealth Bank regularly reviews its cost structures, and where necessary seeks ways to reduce costs,&amp;quot; a spokesman said. &amp;quot;In this current economic environment, if the bank is to remain competitive, it is required to minimise its costs and to seek cost reductions. &amp;quot;All areas of the group have been asked to review their costs.&amp;quot; The cost restructure will include job cuts, which could consist primarily of contracted staff and the shelving of major information technology spending and projects. It is also understood that CBA, which is buying BankWest, is reconsidering whether it will proceed with BankWest's plans to roll out 160 new branches on the east coast. Bankers believe it is unlikely CBA will want to ramp up the BankWest presence -- primarily in major shopping centres with high rents -- which could clash with CBA's branches. The direction to cut costs is understood to have sparked strong dissent among CBA staff, who thought the bank's strong funding position meant it might escape the rationalisation taking place across the industry. There has been no decision on how many CBA jobs will be cut. The news follows ANZ's revelation last week that it will spend $100 million on cutting 500 staff and restructuring its management platform. CBA's cost base has been growing recently, but the bank's productivity has increased only marginally in the past two years. The bank's 2008 accounts showed that the group's total operating expenses reached $7.4 billion, including $3.6 billion worth of staffing costs. CBA's retail banking division -- its biggest unit -- notched up $2.5 billion in costs but may be quarantined from much of the cost-cutting because of the intense competition in the sector. It is thought unlikely the CBA will order &amp;quot;wholesale&amp;quot; job cuts, but any staff reduction would contradict Mr Norris, who in August said there were no plans for general job cuts. There is some suggestion that CBA's institutional banking and wealth management business could be in line for the deepest cuts. The number of CBA staff rose 5 per cent in the past year, and observers think it likely that CBA will follow the lead of the other banks and slash contracted staff first. There is also a likelihood that the country's biggest bank could start to outsource more business functions, which would reduce costs. &amp;quot;In uncertain times, it is important to balance the needs of shareholders against investment and prioritise accordingly,&amp;quot; the CBA spokesman said. &amp;quot;The bank will continue to invest in systems and processes that enhance the customer experience.&amp;quot; The BankWest transaction is expected to include $330 million worth of restructuring costs, which could deliver $220 million in long-term savings for CBA 
