The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) made sure it would not run short of US dollars to meet any obligations in the global financial crisis by setting up a $30 billion swap line with the US Federal Reserve. The Fed also set up $30 billion swap lines with the central banks of South Korea, Mexico and Brazil to ease US dollar funding shortages around the world, reports Reuters. ($30 billion is about 43.9 billion Singapore dollars.)The deal was announced in a joint statement, which appears on the MAS as well as the Federal Reserve website. It says: "These facilities ... are designed to help improve liquidity conditions in global financial markets and to mitigate the spread of difficulties in obtaining U.S. dollar funding in fundamentally sound and well managed economies."The Fed previously set up swap lines, or temporary reciprocal currency arrangements, with 10 other central banks: the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Bank of Canada, Danmarks Nationalbank, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand, the Norges Bank, the Sveriges Riksbank, and the Swiss National Bank.A currency swap with the US Federal Reserve would allow it to lend dollars to European banks struggling to meet short-term dollar funding needs, the Financial Times said at the time.Lee Seong-tae, governor of the Bank of Korea, hoped the swap line would stabilise the South Korean economy, reports Reuters. "Fear had sparked excessive selling of the won. I hope the swap deal will stabilise not only the foreign exchange rates, but also the financial markets," he said.  Singapore this month guaranteed all bank deposits till December 31 next year with up to 150 billion Singapore dollars ($101.5 billion) from its official reserves to prevent a flight of money and keep Singapore banks competitive. The total amount of deposits in Singapore is understood to be valued at about 700 billion Singapore dollars, according to Channel NewsAsia. Singapore's total official reserves amounted to 162.9 billion at the end of 2007, according to MAS.       
