Online bank Icesave, which has 350,000 customers in the UK and Netherlands and holds around 4.5bn of deposits, has been declared insolvent. The Icelandic government took control of the bank yesterday in order to keep it afloat. Depositor protection guarantees will see Icesave customers in the UK able to claim the first 16,300 from Icelandic authorities. The UK Financial Compensation Security Scheme will cover additional funds to the newly introduced cap of 50,000 per customer.If insolvency proceedings commence against the bank, customers will be able to make a claim for any savings above these limits, although it will be a time consuming process.Many UK customers have used Icesaves high interest online savings accounts to hold retirement funds, leaving many customers distraught at the overnight news. Many customers were locked into term deposits and thus unwilling or unable to access their funds in the recent days as the economic turmoil reached new depths.The Icesave website provides customers will little information except for a vague statement that only works to increase customer anxiety. As a result government financial services have been unable to deal with the resulting volume of calls from stressed customers. The website notice reads:We are not currently processing any deposits or any withdrawal requests through our Icesave internet accounts. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause our customers. We hope to provide you with more information shortly.Two other major banks in Iceland have also been nationalised or provided extended loans from the government in recent days. The Icelandic government has asked Russia to provide a 4 billion euro loan for a 3 to 4 year term to allow it to strengthen its foreign exchange reserves.The European Union Finance Ministers have also agreed to guarantee customers savings to at least 50,000 euros up from 25,000. Several countries wanted to increase the maximum guarantee to 100,000 euros. Ireland, Germany, Denmark, Austria and Greece have moved to guarantee all customer savings, uncapped.A European rescue fund to support all banks in the region was floated at the Finance Ministers meeting but received little support. However, all have agreed to support any major bank in the region experiencing difficulties.At home, comments continue about the robust state of the Australian economy and banks, yet we will not be immune to the fallout of this global crisis. Treasurer Wayne Swans comments on Lateline last night that Australian banks are well regulated and well capitalised will do little quell Australian customers fears that we are next, especially in light of current merger discussions between CBA, BankWest and Suncorp. Customer fear and uncertainty will need to be expertly managed by Australian financial services companies as the economic crisis continues to unfold.
