 AUSTRALIAN corporate leaders are starting to see value in the local share market, particularly in banking shares, in the wake of the recent price shake-out, although none forecasts a bull market soon.Mike Smith, chief executive of ANZ, told The Australian yesterday that the local share market had had 'a correction that was needed' but investors had 'lost sight of the fact that banks are still very profitable businesses' in this country. 'They're currently offering a fully franked yield of about 11 per cent,' he said, but admitted that because of short selling and other issues 'the investment mentality is very nervous'. 'If you're looking for a quick trade or a speculative play, it's possible that now isn't the time. But if you're looking for medium to long term value, over say a one-year time horizon, then now might well be the time to get in.' Former Woolworths CEO and Reserve Bank board member Roger Corbett said that 'confidence won't be back in place until the bad news from the banking sector stops'. He said that investors were not happy with the quality of information they had been getting from banks. 'They feel they're not getting the full picture,' he said, adding that there would be 'no substantial recovery' and investment would be severely constrained until confidence returned. 'That said, the Australian economy is in really good shape, particularly because of the demand for resources.' His own pick? 'Resources and related production stocks are probably good value.' Ross Barker, chief executive of the $5 billion Australian Foundation Investment Corp (AFIC) said he had been dipping back into the equities market to pick up some good bargains, especially bank stocks. 'While you can never pick the bottom of the market, it's time to go back into the market. We tend to adopt an incremental approach by buying some shares on their way down and possibly some on the way up. 'AFIC's already got a fairly big exposure to the banking sector. But a couple of weeks ago when news of the Fanny Mae and Freddie Mac debacle broke in the US, bank shares took a hit and we bought some Commonwealth Bank shares, which were below $40 a share, and NAB shares at about $25.50 each. CBA closed yesterday at $40.39 and NAB at $25.46. 'We are currently trying to digest the latest news regarding NAB's and ANZ's exposure before we buy any more banking stock. Despite the banks' exposure to bad debts, the question we have to ask ourselves is whether there is something fundamentally wrong with the business. The answer is 'no' as the banking sector is a well-capitalised and good business. But we suspect there may be some issues regarding their risk management. 'AFIC also has a significant exposure to Wesfarmers and Woolworths and are not looking to increase our stake. 'We are a long-term investor and AFIC's strategy is to buy and hold. We are a long-term investor.' Robert Millner, chairman of diversified investment group Washington H. Soul Pattinson, also bought Commonwealth Bank and NAB shares yesterday for his family-owned companies. 'You are not going to see CBA's shares below $39 again for some time unless something else happens from left field,' he said. 'We have increased our stakes in investment company Milton Corp and Brickworks, where we already have substantial holdings. 'There are a number of good buying opportunities out there because most stocks have fallen by 50 per cent. I suspect the market will bump along at this level for some time before there is a recovery.' Harvey Norman chairman Gerry Harvey got the debate started on ABC television's Lateline on Tuesday. 'You get these false dawns,' he said of the market. 'The other day the Harvey Norman share price went down to $3 and then up to $3.50 and, Bang! out comes the ANZ and says 'we're going to lose another billion' and you sort of think, 'Ha, the market gets hit again!' And so, just as you start to get your head above water, Bang! another catastrophe occurs. So if these catastrophes would please stop, I think we might be able to get going.' 
