 A LEGAL stoush is brewing between embattled stockbroking group Chimaera and its creditor ANZ over the contents of a due diligence report that holds the key to a $35 million rescue plan with an Asian bank.The Australian understands that Chimaera was in talks with its lawyers yesterday about taking action to force ANZ to release the recommendations of the report prepared by KordaMentha in May. The report is vital to the survival of the troubled company, and its contents are in debate, with sources close to Chimaera suggesting the report is positive but people close to the bank suggesting otherwise. ANZ appointed KordaMentha to perform due diligence nine weeks ago but last Monday it abandoned a $55 million rescue package for the broking company. An ANZ spokeswoman said yesterday: 'The finding from the due diligence review was the only reason ANZ did not proceed with the $55 million injection.' However, Chimaera had been led to believe that the report had given it a clean bill of health. A source close to Chimaera confirmed that in May, KordaMentha advisers made positive recommendations to ANZ. The report is crucial to Chimaera being able to find a white knight to bankroll its survival. It is understood that Chimaera has been in talks with Asian bank Sun Hung Kai Financial to recapitalise Chimaera, and the talks are at a critical stage. Sun Hung Kai had asked for a copy of the KordaMentha report in order to negotiate a deal at the weekend, the source said. But ANZ refused Chimaera's request for a copy of the report to complete its recapitalisation. Instead, ANZ appointed receivers. A source close to Chimaera told The Australian last night: 'We believe that the recommendation from the independent due diligence to ANZ was a positive one. 'Throughout the entire process, the behaviour of the bank and the advisers was that the deal was going to progress. 'ANZ has now variously represented or implied to the market that Chimaera actually failed the independent due diligence and that no other offers of recapitalisation were commercially acceptable. Neither statement is correct.' Read the full story at The Australian.
