 ANZ Bank is believed to be committed to a settlement deal with the administrator of collapsed stock-lending firm Opes Prime, with a clearer picture expected to emerge in the next three weeks.Anything between 60c-70c in the dollar is expected to be considered a reasonable outcome for Opes's unsecured creditors. ANZ gave its first public indication last week that it was favouring a settlement deal, when the bank's barrister Philip Crutchfield was reported to have said a class action was not the 'appropriate vehicle' to reach a conclusive deal between the administrators and the key parties. While ANZ would prefer Merrill Lynch to be at the negotiating table, it is unclear whether a settlement deal hinged on the investment bank agreeing to be in mediation talks. It is understood that discussions are under way with Opes administrator Ferrier, ANZ and Merrill Lynch, but that as yet there is no formal mediation agreement signed. As part of any settlement, the administrator is expected to insist on the removal of receiver Deloitte. A clear picture about whether a settlement will be reached is expected to be known by the third week of July. A creditors' meeting is scheduled on July 30. If there is a further extension of that meeting, it will be because Ferrier has a strong degree of comfort that the discussions with ANZ will lead to an acceptable settlement proposal. In a circular to creditors this week, Ferrier said: 'It remains our firm belief that a settlement can be achieved via a mediation process and it is in the creditors' interests for this to occur.' However, as ANZ works towards finding a resolution for Opes, its decision this week not to inject a $55 million investment into Melbourne stockbroking group Chimaera has left that firm's founders shocked. Chimaera co-founder Sal Catalano issued a statement yesterday saying: 'While surprised by ANZ's decision not to proceed with its investment in Chimaera Financial Group, we are concerned about the perceptions created by the decision, and the way it was made and announced, rather than the decision itself.' Mr Catalano also moved to clarify 'perceptions' about the merchant bank, in particular stressing the point that its business model differed significantly from the models used by other stock lenders, such as Opes Prime or Tricom. Chimaera is in discussions with ANZ as a result of its recent decision. 'While ANZ has decided not to proceed with a direct equity investment, it remains one of Chimaera's financial partners,' the company said in a statement. 'It was evident throughout the independent due diligence process that Chimaera does not require an equity injection of anywhere near the quantum initially proposed by ANZ ($55 million).' Nevertheless, Chimaera said it would seek to undertake a smaller capital raising in order to demonstrate ongoing market confidence in the firm's risk management systems and to fund expansion. 'We are now in discussions with other interested investors and will keep the market informed of further developments,' the stockbroking group said.
