 India's largest IT exporter,  or has announced its first quarter numbers. It has posted consolidated net profit of Rs 1,243.6 crore for the quarter ended June 2008 as against Rs 1,255.9 crore in previous quarter and revenues of Rs 6,411 crore versus Rs 6,094.7 crore (US GAAP). (CEO and MD), S Mahalingam (Executive Director and CFO), N Chandrasekaran (COO), Phiroz Vandrevala (ED and Head-Global Affairs) and Ajoyendra Mukherjee (Head - Global Human Resource Development) speak to CNBC-TV18. The management said the Q1 volume growth of 1.3% has been in line with expectations. The IT major expects volumes to pick up in the second half of the year. Some recovery is expected in Q2 and they are watching the on-ground very carefully. The company is watching out for the results of the big financial institutions. Their deal pipeline remains good and the growth momentum is still intact. Major markets of US, UK and Europe are growing. Sentiment stays cautious in BFSI or The business is likely to see some ramp-ups from two of four clients with issues. The company is confident that it will see sustained long-term growth. TCS is sitting on long-term hedges of USD 2.1 billion; maximum forex loss is seen at Rs 90 crore over the rest of the year. The management said uncertainty is likely to prevail through the rest of the year. Excerpts from CNBC-TV18's exclusive interview with TCS management: Q: The volume growth of 1.3% this quarter seems a bit on the lower side, given your historical averages; by when do you see volume growth starting to accelerate again? Ramadorai: I think this is in line with our expectations; we had certain issues with some of the BFSI clients, which made up the other segments. The volume growth in manufacturing or retail or life sciences, have been much above the company average and international business has a healthy growth both in terms of volume as well as the result of the exchange. Fundamentally, we see that later half of this year will see growth and some of the problems with our existing customers are behind us; out of the four, two are behind and in two more we hopefully will see corrections in the next two quarters or so. So all in all, we believe that in the second half of this year, we shall see some growth. Q: Q4 and Q1 now have been mildly sluggish, do you think Q2 will be sluggish as well before growth picks up or will the first signs of recovery be visible in Q2 of this year? Ramadorai: Some recovery will be visible in Q2, but then the situation on the ground has to be watched very carefully, both with regards to the results of the financial institutions as they come out as well as the real happenings with the oil and fuel prices and the implications of that. Having said that, the deal pipeline is good and the momentum with regard to growth is certainly there, but how it translates in this quarter has to be seen. Q3 and Q4 should be better than what it is and we would be comfortable with that. Q: Ramadorai spoke about two of the four clients actually improving a bit and two will follow. Can you give us a few details without mentioning names of the kind of improvement that you are seeing in the clients, which became a little sluggish or sticky in the last couple of quarters? Subramaniam: In the last quarter we talked about a couple of clients with whom we have certain issues, I think we have turned that around. We are seeing growth momentum picking up with those two clients, and I hope that they will continue to take decisions on the transformation engagements. The other thing we talked about in yesterday's analyst call is also the other third client, with whom we have issues with respect to the demerger, so that is all getting sorted out, we are working it out. Hopefully, this quarter should see positive growth in these three customers. Overall major markets are growing especially US, UK and Europe and we see a good pipeline. The BFSI sentiment continues to be cautious and we exercise cautious optimism over growth, but we see that things are picking up, transformational deals that used to take about six months of decision cycle are taking little longer. Q: You have changed the method by which you account for depreciation. If you take that out, what would the margin picture have looked like in this current quarter? Mahalingam: The total amount involved there is about Rs 49 crore. Basically we are adjusting it for the working life of the assets as we have it. We were very aggressive earlier and therefore we looked at it and made sure that it is inline with our usage. If you remove that, it has essentially introduced 67 bps impacts and therefore from the last quarter to this quarter, the operating margin fell by about 26 bps, almost flat and you add 67 you are getting about 93 - that's the impact. Q: Going into Q2, will you hold margins at these kinds of levels? Mahalingam: We have seen the performance essentially in terms of a Cost Containment Programme and it has been realised in a situation where expenses went up because of the exchange factor. So if I add all that, we had about Rs 78 crore. We believe that the programme would continue to work and we should see the margins at this level. Q: There has been some talk in the market that you are facing difficulties with one of your clients in the insurance space, AIG specifically, are there any issues that are cropping up? Subramaniam: I do not want to comment anything specifically on a particular client or a particular project, but overall growth momentum is better than what we had in the last quarter. Major markets are growing. While the decision cycle is taking a little longer that what it used to and we are what we are with respect to banking, financial services and insurance or BFSI pipeline, we have a fairly strong pipeline where we are working on a number of large deals as well and hopefully things should turn around. Q: You spoke earlier about how things are returning to normal with a couple of the difficult clients, have they started work with you or has work been continuing and now the first signs of ramp up are visible? Ramadorai: Exactly. The work is continuing and we are going to see some ramp ups. That is the first on the two out of the four clients. On the third one, with regard to the demerger, we are closing the deals with the newer entities and hopefully that should start either during the end of this quarter or early into the next quarter. On the fourth, we anticipate a little bit of a slowdown but we think that we would be made up by growth in other sectors during this quarter and the subsequent quarters. So all in all, the problems, which we face with regard these four clients, have solutions and we are quite happy with the same. But then the momentum with regard to building more business with the existing clients or newer opportunities with regard to the deal pipeline are quite comfortable; that was the thought process behind telling you that Q3 and Q4 are likely to see volume growth. Q: Given that the base would be low for Q1 and Q2 as well, are you expecting significant volume growth in the second half of the year that will make your overall annual growth quite respectable? Ramadorai: I think the objective is to show growth in line with the industry projections, but more importantly the sustained long-term growth opportunities are what we are going to be looking at. We do not give any guidance as you know, but the fundamentals and our new organisational structure is extremely agile, extremely strong and the customers want to transact business with an organisation that is very responsive. Those are some of the opportunities and those are some of the positions we are taking. Communicating our value proposition on continuous basis and you are going to see some momentum for sure. Q: You did indicate last quarter that you were doing a bit of handholding with clients which were going through a difficult phase. Has that continued through Q1 where you are making some near-term compromises for a long-term relationships? Ramadorai: I think the revenues were back-ended for long-term contracts. We were not giving away anything other than back-ending the revenue stream by way of investments. Occasionally, it may still happen but not to the extent as in the past. But we will see growth and we are not unduly concerned about some of the things we did in the past because those were investments for the future essentially. Q: You have seen a pricing fall for the second quarter running, is it possible that during this year pricing remains sticky? Mahalingam: As we have said, pricing would be stable and we are watching every renegotiation. As we clarified in our discussion yesterday pricing hasn't dropped from time and material perspective. If there are any transformational deals, we will look whether prices would be even better. The pricing that we put out is the combination of many factors, which ultimately comes up with a realisation. 
