 UTStarcom is slimming down its business to better focus on bringing broadband and next generation network technologies to emerging markets. On Tuesday, AIG Vantage Capital snapped up the company's personal communications division, making AIG the lead investor of the new, standalone company. On Tuesday, the Internet Protocol, broadband and wireless company sold its personal communications division for $240.0 million to AIG Investments' Vantage Capital segment. The agreement includes up to an additional $50.0 million to UTStarcom (nasdaq: UTSI - news - people ) if certain financial targets are met. The company said it will continue to design handsets for Personal Communications Devices as part of a supply agreement.The sold division, which distributes handsets and accessories in North America, will become a separate entity called Personal Communications Devices, LLC, and will retain its current management team. Management will partly own the company with AIG and other unnamed investors. UTStarcom declined to specify the exact division of ownership but said AIG Vantage Capital will be the lead investor. AIG didn't immediately return calls for comment.Although the sale is expected to widen UTStarcom's operating loss in the near-term, the company's chief financial officer, Fran Barton 'Divesting PCD immediately relieves us from the obligation to fund the associated working capital requirements. Specifically, we will no longer need to manage the working capital spikes and troughs associated with PCD's distribution business,' Barton said. The company's shares gained 1.1%, or 6 cents, to $5.53, during Tuesday afternoon trading. The sale is as part of UTStarcom's plan to simplify operations and focus on growing its core Internet Protocol television, next generation networks and broadband products in emerging markets, where the technology has a high acceptance rate and the company faces little competition. As the investment arm of the insurance company, American International Group (nyse: AIG - news - people ), AIG Investments is a group of international companies that provide investment advice and asset management services to a global client base. It manages nearly $753.0 billion in assets and employs more than 2,000 employees. 
