 MERRILL Lynch Australia chief executive Paul Masi has given a strong indication that the firm is unlikely to participate in any settlement deal over collapsed Melbourne stock-lender Opes Prime, potentially leaving major lender ANZ Bank to strike its own deal with the administrators. 'You only settle something if you think you have done something wrong,' Mr Masi told The Australian in an exclusive interview yesterday. 'We'd be happy to discuss. 'I guess our issue is still a very simple one. We need to understand what it is we have had to put up (and) for what reason. 'ANZ's situation is very different from ours and the fact that they choose to try and join us together is their issue. It's got nothing to do with us.' His comments come as Opes Prime administrator John Lindholm attempts to secure a settlement deal with the financiers of the collapsed firm -- ANZ and Merrill -- over the next month. But ANZ has said that any settlement is conditional on all the key players, including Merrill, being involved. However, with Merrill unlikely to participate in a deal, expectations are building that ANZ may be in for a settlement payout, possibly paying Opes' unsecured creditors 60c to 70c in the dollar. A well-placed source within Opes told The Australian that he believed Merrill was an innocent bystander in the Opes collapse, and only notified of problems on the day of the collapse. Speaking publicly about Opes Prime for the first time since its collapse in March, Mr Masi said: 'We think that once the matters are heard, we will be shown to have done everything appropriately.' Mr Masi also pointed out that the default event for Merrill only occurred when Opes was put into default by ANZ. 'From our point of view ... the default event was when they were put into default by ANZ. Now we have very different loan to valuation ratios from some of the other lenders. It wasn't that they were in default with us.' However, he said one concern was that some Opes clients seemed to have loan to valuation ratios of more than 100 per cent. 'You have got people that seem to have borrowed money against security not being called, yet they have borrowed 100 per cent,' he said. 'Now that seems very odd to me -- loans against some securities which we wouldn't have lent against. But there's a whole host of issues in all this.' Mr Masi also said he was surprised by the amount of money being lent to clients. Asked if Merrill's reputation had been damaged as a result of Opes and the collapsed stock-lending firm Lift Capital, Mr Masi said clients had been concerned. 'The implication, often in articles, suggests that we have somehow done something which is illegal, which we will strongly disagree with,' he said, referring to Opes and the smaller Lift Capital. Mr Masi said a review of Merrill Lynch's prime broking business had been undertaken but had 'not found any smoking gun'. He said the Merrill prime broking team was substantially still in place, with only one departure. 
