 Market ScanLONDON - It was one step forward, two steps back for Royal Bank of Scotland on Friday, when fresh hope for a sale of assets in New Zealand and Australia was overshadowed by Zurich Financial's earlier decision not to bid for the bank's insurance unit. But with investor sentiment declining and a potential recession in the air, RBS does not have the luxury of time in its quest to raise cash from asset sales.'The market is concerned that the Royal Bank of Scotland (nyse: RBS -  news  -  people ) needs to get these businesses away,' said Mark Durling, analyst with Brewin Dolphin. He told Forbes.com that RBS was taking its time to get a fuller price for its insurance unit, which the bank hopes will fetch seven billion pounds ($13.9 billion). However, with Zurich Financial Services (other-otc: ZFSVY -  news  -  people ) no longer in the running, potential bidders are dwindling fast.Shares in RBS fell 4.8%, or 9.50 pence (19 cents), to 190.40 pence ($3.79), during afternoon trading in London on Friday. Rival Barclays (nyse: BCS -  news  -  people ) was down 4.0% and France's BNP Paribas (other-otc: BNPQY -  news  -  people ) down 2.3% on a rough day for financial stocks.There was some positive news from the Antipodes on Friday, when National Australia Bank (other-otc: NAZBY -  news  -  people ) said it was in talks with RBS to potentially buy local assets in Australia and New Zealand. RBS inherited the assets from its pricey consortium acquisition of ABN Amro, which is part of the reason why it has gone on the hunt for extra cash; its balance sheet has also suffered from 8 billion pounds ($15.9 billion) in write-downs from risky assets.The bank raised a record 12 billion pounds ($23.9 billion) last month from the vast majority of investors, giving it a strong enough capital cushion to reach an estimated core Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% by the end of the year. (See 'RBS Gets A Break') But with the economy likely to get a lot worse, RBS is caught in a fine balance between holding out for the best price for its units or being caught off-guard by a collapsing market.'With the insurance business, they're selling off a very good, profitable business,' said Nic Clarke, analyst with Charles Stanley. 'The proof really will be in the pudding as to how bad the economy gets.'More On This TopicCompanies: RBS   ZFSVY   BCS   BNPQY   NAZBYArticle ControlsE-Mail  Print   Request Reprints   E-Mail Newslettersdel.icio.us    Digg It!       Share    RSS'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsAdvertisement: Related Business Topics &gt;Related Business TopicsStocksFinancial ServicesTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubAuthor Q &amp;amp; ABook ReviewDavid K. RandallBrands aren't making us, we're making brands.
