 FORMER Westpac chief executive David Morgan will scour the world for undervalued financial services businesses after becoming an operating partner and Australian chairman of private equity firm JC Flowers &amp;amp; Co. The New York-based financial services specialist, which was reportedly in talks to buy investment bank Bear Stearns in March before it was trumped by JP Morgan, is named after its founder -- the chess-playing, former Goldman Sachs dealmaker Christopher Flowers. Mr Flowers was recently valued at $US2 billion ($2.07 billion), largely on the back of his firm's purchase of Japan's Shinsei Bank in 2000 and its successful refloat four years later. The deal is rated as one of the world's most lucrative private equity transactions, reportedly netting the partners $US2.3 billion. Dr Morgan, head of Westpac for nine years until January and now a BHP Billiton director, said JC Flowers had approached him with an opportunity to stay in financial services without competing against his former employer. 'It's a good fit for me; it keeps me in the international and domestic deal flow, and Christopher was recommended to me,' he said. 'He loves complexity but also has a sense of humility, and those traits don't necessarily characterise everyone in private equity.' Westpac emerged from the Morgan years as the nation's top-rated large bank, leaving it well-positioned for successor Gail Kelly to launch an agreed, $18 billion merger with St George Bank in May. Dr Morgan said the dislocation in global markets, which helped expose St George as a takeover target, presented rare domestic investment opportunities for a firm like JC Flowers. 'Australia has partly decoupled from the US economy because we have that second engine of growth in China, so our downturn will be less severe,' he said. 'Our housing market is also in better shape, with full-recourse mortgages and no sub-prime lending, yet the price of financial services stocks has still moved (down) in lock step with the US.' Dr Morgan, in his new role, will examine regional and global opportunities in the financial services sector, including wealth, banking, insurance, financial intermediaries and reinsurance businesses in run-off mode. He will also advise JC Flowers on operational improvements it can make with existing investments. In the coming weeks, Dr Morgan will visit companies owned by the firm in China, Germany and Britain, as well as in Japan, after it bought back into Shinsei in a $US1.8 billion consortium deal. JC Flowers, which has invested $US11 billion in the financial services sector, has demonstrated it has considerable firepower to draw on. Apart from its reported interest in Bear Stearns, it was assessing British bank Northern Rock before it pulled out of the bidding in December. A revised, pound stg. 3.5 billion offer for British insurer Friends Provident was rejected in January. This was followed by Shinsei, now one-third owned by JC Flowers, paying $US5.4 billion for GE's consumer finance business in Japan earlier this month. Dr Morgan said the average size of the firm's deals was increasing, but generally ranged from $US100 million at the low end to the recent GE transaction deal at the top end. JC Flowers is currently on a roadshow to raise money for a third fund, but Dr Morgan said he was unable to comment due to US securities laws. 
