 FIVE years ago, Melbourne-based life sciences company Genetic Technologies made quite a song and dance out of securing the rights to carry out potentially life-saving tests in screening women for the breast cancer gene.Despite the exclusivity of the licence it obtained from the US-based inventor of the tests, the company claimed that it would not attempt to restrict other local health service providers already conducting such testing from doing so. It was its 'gift to the people of Australia and New Zealand', Genetic Technologies (GTG) declared in an announcement to the stock exchange back in May 2003. However, it now seems that the company, under the stewardship of new chief executive Michael Ohanessian, has changed its mind. On July 7, lawyers for GTG contacted healthcare laboratories around the country, including the respected Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre in Melbourne, requesting that they cease offering the BRAC1 and BRAC2 gene tests within seven days. The company wants all future tests to be referred to its own laboratories. However, it may have a fight on its hands. Breast cancer susceptibility testing, which can cost upwards of $2000 per test, is government-funded and several state and territory-based health authorities are seeking legal advice regarding the company's demand. Following a recent emergency meeting of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council, the matter has been referred to the Australian Competition &amp;amp; Consumer Commission for investigation. The Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing recently contacted GTG and successfully obtained an extension on its seven-day deadline until after August 6. 'This appears to be a departure from the approach the company indicated in a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange . . . in 2003 that it would not seek to enforce those intellectual property rights,' a department spokeswoman said. 'The Department is continuing to work with states and territories and Genetic Technologies on this issue.' The company, which has yet to turn a profit, argues that its decision is a commercial one. A GTG spokesman said yesterday that the group continued to pay licensing fees for the tests to the US company Myriad and had invested millions in its world-class laboratories. The company claims to want an amicable solution, however it is understood that it is prepared to take legal action to enforce its rights to the tests. Such a move could prove to be a public relations nightmare for a company that has had its fair share of negative publicity regarding past attempts to enforce controversial patents covering non-coding DNA around the world. Plus, GTG has also been embroiled in an 18 month-long investigation into alleged illegal trading in its shares that recently culminated in a stockbroker being charged over market manipulation. Westpac lifts its rate HOW courteous of Westpac Bank to wait until all the other key lenders jacked up their interest rates before announcing its own rate rise. The latest round of rate hikes -- which are occurring outside the realm of Reserve Bank of Australia's official policy -- were kicked off by Westpac takeover target St George Bank more than a week ago. While Westpac refrained from publicly commenting on St George's decision to lift its lending rates by 20 basis points, behind the scenes its operatives weren't shy about pointing to the move as yet another argument supporting its $18.6 billion proposed merger with the smaller bank. Off the record, of course. Fast forward to yesterday, and Westpac finally succumbed to peer-group pressure. Its own standard variable home lending rate will rise by 14 basis points to 9.61 per cent on Thursday. So much for the bank's ability to source cheaper wholesale funding. Branson wakes up to a splash WE know that mega-billionaire Richard Branson has the means to flit anywhere he wishes at the drop of a hat. The king of the vast Virgin empire no doubt has his own seat reserved up the pointy end of any Virgin Atlantic Airways or Virgin Blue plane. He can even head into outer space if he chooses, once Virgin Galactic starts flying next year. But not even the ultra-mobile Branson can be in two different continents at once. Can he? According to Fairfax Media he can. Reporting on Monday's news that Branson would again be the largest shareholder of Virgin Blue, following Toll Holdings' decision to bail, the esteemed Australian Financial Review claimed to have spoken to the man from his London home. Branson apparently gave an interview in hushed tones. 'I have to be quiet because my wife's asleep,' he said. Meanwhile, the paper's stable mate The Sydney Morning Herald claimed to have spoken to the mogul as he splashed around in his bathtub in South Africa. urbanr@theaustralian.com.au 
