 TORONTO, July 10 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ - Angoss Software Corporation (Angoss) (TSX-V: ANC - News), a leading provider of data mining and predictive analytics solutions for the financial services and information and communications technology industries, today announced that it has been positioned by Gartner, Inc. in the challengers quadrant in the 'Magic Quadrant for Customer Data Mining Applications'(1) report.  'Angoss remains focused on a roadmap of continuous innovation, providing proven customer analytics solutions empowering sales, marketing and risk management professionals to drive measurable business performance improvements,' said David Stott, head of Angoss product management. 'We believe our positioning in the Gartner Magic Quadrant reflects our dedication to delivering rich solutions designed to accommodate the needs and abilities of a wide range of users while allowing for a variety of scalable deployment options.'Some of the world's leading financial services, information and communications technology, and retail organizations use Angoss, including Citigroup, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, GE Money, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Washington Mutual, Lloyds Bank, Barclays Bank, ABN Amro, Royal Bank of Scotland, Standard Chartered, AIG, Allstate, Norwich Union, Nationwide, Genworth Financial, AXA Insurance, Allianz, AGF, Russell Investments, Franklin Templeton, T-Mobile, eBay, MSN, Dell, Yahoo, O2, Rogers Communications, Yellow Pages Group, Genpact, ChoicePoint, Equifax, Experian, First Data Corporation, Sedgwick CMS, Milliman, and hundreds of others.About the Magic QuadrantThe Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 2008 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission. The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation of a marketplace at and for a specific time period. It depicts Gartner's analysis of how certain vendor's measure against criteria for that marketplace, as defined by Gartner. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors placed in the 'Leaders' quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specific guide to action. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.---------------------------------- (1) Gartner 'Magic Quadrants for Customer Data-Mining Applications' by G. Herschel, et al. July 1, 2008. About Angoss Angoss Software Corporation empowers people to make 'Better Business Decisions. Every Day.'(TM)Some of the world's leading financial services, information and communications technology, and retail organizations use Angoss On-Demand predictive analytics software and services to grow revenues, while reducing risk and cost. Angoss helps our clients utilize business data to discover the key drivers of behavior, predict future trends and events, and act with confidence when making business decisions.Angoss combines powerful market proven software with focused industry services expertise in the deployment, integration and use of predictive analytics in enterprise environments. Our differentiators include broad user acceptance, a commitment to open standards, rich functionality, rapid deployment, exceptional ease-of-use and affordability.Headquartered in Toronto, Canada, Angoss has offices in the UK and has partnered with the world's leading enterprise software and services vendors. For more information, visit www.angoss.com.-------------------------------------------------------------------------The Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 1 July 2008 by Gartner, Inc. and is reused with permission. The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation of a marketplace at and for a specific time period. It depicts Gartner's analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as defined by Gartner. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors placed in the 'Leaders' quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specific guide to action. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.This press release contains statements of a forward-looking nature. These statements are made under the 'safe harbor' provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The accuracy of these statements may be impacted by a number of business risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or anticipated, including: the risk that the sale of our products and services involves a long sales cycle; the risk that the economic environment and business conditions will remain difficult to predict; the risk of competition in our target markets; the risk that we may not respond adequately to evolving technologies; the risk that we or our customers may have difficulties in introducing our products or services; the risk that we will encounter difficulties in continuing to offer services; the risk that we will encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired companies with our own; the risks of conducting our operations in a variety of international locations; the risk that we may need to record future write-downs of assets arising from our investments in other companies; the risks relating to the costs that we may incur as a result of litigation against us; and other risks described in our filings with securities regulatory authorities, including our annual reports, interim financial statements and similar disclosure documents. ANGOSS Software does not undertake any obligation to update this forward-looking information after the date of its initial publication, except as required under applicable law.Note: The Toronto Venture Exchange has neither approved nor disapproved the above information. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
