 Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens says Bendigo Bank has proven there is a place for well-run regional banks in today's global economy. Mr Stevens said the bank's evolution from a goldfields building society 150 years ago to a successful Australian bank with a strong regional presence was a 'remarkable achievement'. 'It shows that not only is there an important role for regional banks in the modern world, but that well-run institutions can successfully fill that role,' Mr Stevens told guests at the bank's 150th anniversary dinner at Bendigo Town Hall on Wednesday night. 'You have much to show for the past century and a half.' He described Bendigo Bank's community banking model as an 'innovative response to the demands of local communities for such services' after the major banks exited regional Australia in droves during the early 1990s. 'This withdrawal left an opportunity, but to take it someone had to devise a business model that could cover costs at a price which the community could accept,' Mr Stevens said. 'The Bendigo model seems to meet this test.' Mr Stevens said the model blended a shareholder-ownership approach with a traditional cooperative.From providing a solution to the regional Australia's desire for banking services, it had become a key component of the bank's earnings growth, with about half Bendigo's community branches now in capital city centres and suburbs.Mr Stevens also paid tribute to the company's longevity, saying 'something must have been working well' to ride through the economic cycles of the past 150 years since the bank was formed on July 9, 1858. He said the bank's managers have displayed a good assessment of risk, plenty of common sense and an ability to resist the temptation of exotic new opportunities - skills those who sat on some of the world's largest financial institutions failed to grasp.One example was Bendigo Bank's ability to come through the difficulties of the 1890s, while others failed. 'The 1890s were tough for the city of Bendigo, as for most of Victoria,' Mr Stevens said. 'A number of banks in the city closed their doors. But its main building society remained sound. ''The Bendigo' had not ventured as far into Melbourne real estate as others, nor was it as highly leveraged. There are some lessons there.' Mr Stevens quoted from historian Michael Cannon's book, The Land Boomers, where the author describes the 'land mania' of the 1880s, when there was a 'deeply held belief that it was impossible to lose money by 'investing' in land - a belief which persists to this very day'. 'Those words, penned in 1966 about an event a century ago, carry a more than faint echo of more recent times in other parts of the world,' Mr Stevens said.
