 ANZ'S Asia operations head has stood by the bank's 'stretch' target of almost trebling the region's profit contribution in five years, saying the business had no capital constraints and could deliver high levels of organic earnings growth.Asia-Pacific group managing director Alex Thursby agreed with chief executive Mike Smith's assessment on Monday that ANZ's devalued scrip meant it was priced out of Asian acquisitions, particularly with banks in the region immune so far from the meltdown in Western capital markets. 'Scale isn't everything; it's more important to understand the profitable revenue pools,' he said. 'Many of the markets are still very fragmented, which allows for well-executed organic growth plans.' Recent Asian banking deals have exemplified the problems facing Western institutions in securing non-dilutive deals, with ANZ outbid in the duel for Hong Kong-based Wing Lung Bank by China Merchants Bank, which paid 2.9 times the target's book value. Earlier this year Malaysia's biggest lender, Maybank, bid $US2.7 billion, or a staggering 4.6 times book value, for Indonesian bank BII. 'That's a crazy deal -- not a value creator,' Mr Thursby said. 'We're prepared to take some dilution in the short term, but in the medium term our aspiration is for any deal to be positive for earnings per share.' In December, Mr Smith outlined a strategy to double cash profit to about $8 billion by 2012, mainly driven by a near trebling of Asia's contribution from 7 per cent to 20 per cent of group earnings, or $1.5 billion. In the March half year, the region lifted profit by 50 per cent from $74 million to $111 million. Last Monday, when Mr Smith unveiled $1.4 billion in extra provisions, he said net annual profit was expected to grow by 40 per cent. ANZ already has a strong presence in China (Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank and Bank of Tianjin), Malaysia (AMMB Holdings) and Vietnam (Sacombank and Saigon Securities), and Mr Thursby nominated India as the main geographic gap in the portfolio. 'We sold Grindlays there a while ago and we're working to get our banking licence back and operate on an organic basis,' he said. The region had its challenges, but Mr Thursby said he did not expect a major credit fallout of the type being experienced in Western economies. Asian growth rates, he said, were extraordinary, but a regional slowdown would result from higher energy prices and rising inflation, which was being tackled in countries such as Indonesia and India with tighter monetary policy. Even so, Chinese growth might ease back from 11 per cent to a still impressive 7-9 per cent, and Malaysia and Indonesia could ease back from 6-7 per cent to 4-5 per cent. Mr Thursby said the main organic growth opportunities in the existing portfolio were in Vietnam, China, Hong Kong and Indonesia, where ANZ had a venture with PT Panin Bank. There has been speculation that 25 per cent owned AMMB Holdings could merge, possibly with RHB Capital, to create Malaysia's second-largest bank, but the ANZ chief said that was unlikely. 'There's a big gap between the number five player, AMMB, and numbers one to three, but we don't need scale to affect the competition above us,' he said. 'My philosophy is to get your backyard strong before you invite the other kids in to play.' 
