 EMBATTLED Gold Coast-based property financier City Pacific has again delayed making a dividend payment, as it stares down a $130 million debt deadline that expires today.City Pacific chief executive Phil Sullivan said the financier was 'currently in negotiations' with its bankers to extend that loan to the City Pacific First Mortgage Fund. He said the company was 'confident' the loan would be extended, but he declined to comment further. City Pacific's First Mortgage Fund last month secured an extension for repayment of a $180 million debt to the Commonwealth Bank until today. That loan had been gradually paid down to the $130 million still owing. Separately, the FMF has secured a $44 million injection from Singapore-based Teak Capital Partners and a 'foreign institutional investor', understood to be a global bank. The investors will buy into the Grande Pacific Broadwater at Southport on the Gold Coast, a development which claims to offer 'six-star' retirement living on completion. Under the arrangement, $30 million will be paid to the FMF by August 29, and the investors will assume the $14 million construction obligation for the project. Due diligence will be under way until August 29. City Pacific told the Australian Securities Exchange yesterday that it was confident 'the matter will proceed to completion as scheduled'. Mr Sullivan said he believed City Pacific was working itself out of trouble. The situation was now easier for City Pacific than it was in March, which was 'not an easy time'. At that time, City Pacific was plunged into crisis, after its shares lost more than half their value in one day. Mr Sullivan said the company was now dealing with a slowdown in lending and development activity, which it felt rapidly due to the short-term nature of its business. In normal times, more than 80 per cent of City Pacific's loan book was turned over each year. Mr Sullivan said deferring the interim dividend was done to preserve the value of the FMF's assets. He said shareholders would eventually get the same amount of money, just delayed until November 28, when they would get 12c a share. City Pacific told the ASX yesterday that it recognised that certain 'members' of the FMF required liquidity and it was working on potential liquidity solutions for them. City Pacific shares closed steady at 34c. 
