 Jul. 16--The Travelers Cos. Inc. said Tuesday that it will promote a plan to solve insurance availability problems that have plagued coastal homeowners by creating 'coastal hurricane zones' regulated by the federal government.In a statement released Tuesday, Travelers detailed a proposal to create zones from Texas to Maine in which the federal government would regulate property insurance rates and rules covering windstorms.The states currently regulate all facets of property insurance, creating 'inconsistency and unpredictability' from state to state, Jay Fishman, chairman and chief executive of The Travelers, has said. A predictable, uniform set of federal regulations would encourage private insurers to broaden the availability of wind damage insurance for property owners who live near the water, the company said.Insurers have shrunk from covering homes and businesses in coastal regions after being slapped with $40 billion worth of claims following Hurricane Katrina. They've boosted rates by as much as 85 percent and required customers to take protective measures.Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America, and The Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers have said they support the Travelers plan. 'Property owners who live in hurricane-prone areas deserve the same peace of mind and availability of insurance coverage as everyone else,' said Jerry Jurgensen, CEO of Nationwide Insurance.The proposal is based on what Travelers described as the 'Four Pillars': --A set of uniform federal rules regulating wind coverage for established coastal zones from Texas to Maine.--Transparency in how windstorm insurance premiums are calculated based on approved standards, wind-risk models and a rating mechanism that would adjust premiums if models and actual damage become misaligned.--A federal reinsurance mechanism for extreme events, such as major hurricanes.--Federal incentives for state and local governments that enforce building codes and land-use policies that encourage the construction of 'stronger homes' and premium credits for homeowners who make their homes less vulnerable to wind damage.Contact Lynn Doan at ldoan@courant.com. To see more of The Hartford Courant, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.courant.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Hartford Courant, Conn. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.
