 UTStarcom is shedding its non-core mobile businesses to better focus on bringing broadband and new network technologies to high-growth markets like Asia and Latin America. On Tuesday, AIG Vantage Capital bought the company's personal-communications division, making it the lead investor of the new, standalone company. On Tuesday, the Internet protocol, broadband and wireless company sold its personal communications division for $240.0 million to the AIG unit. The agreement includes up to an additional $50.0 million to UTStarcom (nasdaq: UTSI - news - people ) if certain financial targets are met. The company said it will continue to design handsets for personal communications devices as part of a supply agreement.The sold division, which distributes handsets and accessories made by itself and others to cell-phone companies in North America, will become a separate entity called Personal Communications Devices and will retain its current management team. Management will partly own the company with AIG and other, unnamed investors. UTStarcom declined to specify the exact division of ownership but said AIG Vantage Capital will be the lead investor. AIG didn't return calls for comment.UTStarcom bought the business from Audiovox in November 2004 for $165.0 million.Although the sale is expected to widen UTStarcom's operating loss in the near-term, the company's chief financial officer, Fran Barton 'Divesting PCD immediately relieves us from the obligation to fund the associated working-capital requirements. Specifically, we will no longer need to manage the working capital spikes and troughs associated with PCD's distribution business,' Barton said. During a conference call with analysts, Barton projected year-end sales of $1.0 billion, which excludes the divested business but includes the company's ongoing supplier agreement with Personal Communication Devices. The company's shares gained 2.2%, or 12 cents, at $5.59 on Tuesday. The stock, which traded above $78 in 2000, has been recovering from a March low of $2.23. Last year, the company completed a review of its business portfolio and identified PCD as a non-core business. Under the company's strategic plan, the UTStarcom will focus on Internet Protocol-based products, which it considers to be the future of the company. Last month, it sold its Mobile Solutions business unit.The sale is as part of UTStarcom's plan to simplify operations and focus on growing its core Internet protocol television, next-generation networks and broadband products in emerging markets where the technology has a high acceptance rate and the company faces little competition. As the investment arm of the insurance company, American International Group (nyse: AIG - news - people ), AIG Investments is a group of international companies that provide investment advice and asset management services to a global client base. It manages nearly $753.0 billion in assets and employs more than 2,000.You can see why AIG is looking for industrial technologies. The company posted a $7.8 billion loss in the the first quarter, mostly related to subprime mortgage-backed securities gone sour. In May, it raised $20.0 billion via stock and bond sales to shore up its balance sheet, and, apparently, to invest.The Associated Press contributed to this article. 
