 AS if the boutique merchant bank Chimaera Capital didn't have enough to deal with, it's now caught up in a spat that involves the corporate regulator ASIC and the Takeovers Panel.Chimaera's main concern at present is what to do following the ANZ Bank's shock decision not to take a majority interest in the company by putting up $55 million of a planned $65 million equity raising. Chimaera decided on the equity raising in the wake of the turmoil over securities lending, which resulted in a near-death experience for the share broker Tricom Securities and the failure of Opes Prime and Lift Capital. One of Chimaera's activities is securities, with ANZ as its financier. In April, Chimaera said it had reached an in-principle agreement for ANZ to pump in the funds, subject to due diligence. The additional equity would be used to 'enhance' Chimaera's liquidity during the current volatile equity market conditions. The raising was expected to be completed within 30 days. But more than two months later, ANZ tersely announced that following due diligence it had decided not to proceed with an investment in Chimaera. The future of the company is now uncertain. Chimaera's spat is with ASIC and it has spilled over to the panel. It relates to Chimaera's securities lending activities. Under the stock lending model used by Opes Prime, Tricom and Chimaera the legal title to securities lodged as collateral transferred from the clients (lenders) to the broker. In turn, the title then passed from the brokers to their financiers, with ANZ and Merrill Lynch most active in that space. That led to debate as to whether the brokers and financiers should have lodged substantial shareholding notices where they gained title to more than 5 per cent of a company, and that they may have breached the takeover rules where they secured title to more than 20 per cent of a company. It also meant that clients who had transferred more than 5 per cent of a company should have lodged changes of substantial shareholding notices. BioProspect, one of the companies caught up in the Opes collapse, took ANZ to the panel, submitting that the bank had not lodged a substantial shareholding notice in relation to 25.75 per cent of the capital. ANZ began selling the shares after the failure of Opes Prime, and BioProspect claimed the sales wouldn't take place in an 'efficient, competitive and informed' market. Following BioProspect's panel application, ANZ lodged substantial shareholder notices that showed it had 5 per cent of more of 90 companies, including nine where its stake was above 20 per cent. However, ANZ suggested there was 'some uncertainty' as whether it was under a legal obligation to make disclosure. ANZ submitted that it had obtained relief from ASIC from both the 20 per cent bid threshold and the substantial shareholding provisions, but the panel considered that the relief relied upon by the bank did not apply to its securities lending with Opes prime in relation to BioProspect shares. That relief was a modification obtained in October 2000 that related to equity swaps. It said that Chapter 6 and 6C of the Corporations Act (takeovers and substantial shareholdings) did not apply to ANZ in relation to an 'equity financing transaction', which was defined as 'a structure financing arrangement in the nature of an equity derivative, and is documented under the International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc, standard master agreement (or other documentation which has substantially the same effect as that agreement)'. The panel therefore considered that, as the relief didn't apply, there had been contraventions of both Chapters 6 and 6C, but accepted undertakings that ANZ sell down to less than 5 per cent of BioProspect within 12 months, and that it couldn't vote any BioProspect shares during the sell down. It now turns out that Chimaera has a similar long standing modification to that of ANZ. It was obtained on February 2, 2001 and exempts Chapters 6 and 6C from applying to Chimaera in relation to an equity financing transaction, which involves ISDA documentation. Primebroker Securities, a Chimaera company, has now gone to the panel complaining that on June 18 ASIC decided to revoke its modification, to take effect from July 2. This suggests that Primebroker was not prepared to voluntarily make disclosure, unlike ANZ, which agreed to give disclosure whether or not it was exempted by the modification. Removing Chimaera's modification exemption would clearly place a disclosure requirement upon Chimaera. Primebroker responded by seeking a review of ASIC's decision and wanted an order to stay the revocation. ASIC has now removed the need for a stay by undertaking that it won't seek to implement the revocation pending a final determination by the panel. In one of those jurisdictional quirks, the panel application applies only to Chapter 6 -- the takeover provisions, and not Chapter 6, the substantial shareholding provisions. That's because the panel has limited powers in relation to a review of an ASIC decision. It can only review decisions that relate to takeovers (Chapter 6). Review of ASIC decisions that relate to non-takeover issues are the province of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. However, it appears that if an ASIC review relates to a bid which is on foot, then the panel can exercise all of the 'powers and discretions' conferred on ASIC under both Chapters 6 and 6C. In the BioProspect application the panel was able to consider both Chapters 6 and 6C because that was an issue as to whether the ASIC modification applied to those chapters, and was not a review of an ASIC decision. In Chimaera's case there is no bid on foot, so the panel's determination will be limited to Chapter 6. If Chimaera wants a review of the Chapter 6C elements of the ASIC decision it will have to go the AAT. Chimaera yesterday indicated that an application to the AAT was 'under consideration'. However, it must be considered likely that Chimaera will want clarity as to whether or not it has to make substantial shareholding disclosures and that it will therefore go to the AAT. But the modification relates to both Chapters 6 and 6C and it's inherently clumsy that its constituent parts need to be considered by different quasi-judicial bodies. It would become downright awkward if they should reach different conclusions. 
