 WESTPAC has maintained tactical pressure on St George Bank by announcing a 14-basis-point increase in home lending rates -- well below the 20-point hike announced earlier this month by its proposed merger partner.The $18 billion deal has been agreed between the respective boards, pending regulatory approval and an independent expert's verdict on Westpac's pitch of 1.31 of its own shares for each St George share. However, beneath the friendly veneer, the partners have been sniping about Westpac's claimed advantage from a AA-rating compared with St George's single-A status in a funding environment that continues to tighten. The urgent support package for US mortgage funders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac contributed to investor nervousness yesterday about local financial stocks, with all the nation's big five banks recording large share price declines. While St George chief executive Paul Fegan has described the credit rating differential as a 'red herring', Westpac has asserted it confers access to wholesale debt markets on better terms. After yesterday's announcement, Westpac's variable rate is pegged at 9.61 per cent compared with the Dragon's 9.67 per cent. The move completes a sixth round of rate hikes, outside any Reserve Bank of Australia adjustment to official rates, since the beginning of the year. Body: Both Canberra and the consumer movement, to varying degrees, have condemned the rate hikes, but the Australian Bankers Association yesterday launched a spirited defence of the industry's response to the continuing fallout from the US sub-prime lending crisis, now in its 11th month. The ABA said it was 'premature' to question competition in the home lending market, as banks had to refinance or roll over wholesale funding in a volatile market where the cost of debt had increased significantly over the past year. The lobby group said its bank clients had initially taken a conservative approach, choosing to absorb the increased funding costs as they waited to see if the new environment was sustained. It said the fact that banks had continued to absorb some part of their higher costs demonstrated the value of a 'strong, well-capitalised and competitive banking sector'. 
