 - Newton Investment Management has announced the appointment of Jin Hill as Account Manager in its institutional sales team.Based in London, Hill will be responsible for a number of Newton's key institutional relationships. In addition, she will work within the wider institutional business team in continuing to strengthen Newton's business.Prior to joining Newton Investment Management, Hill was a Principal and Client Director on the Institutional Client Group for Barclays Global Investors Limited in London where she was responsible for the servicing of a range of UK pension schemes across the firm's diverse product set. Hill also championed the development and promotion of the BGI Strategic Solutions Group's diversified growth strategies. She was previously a Senior Consulting Associate with Cambridge Associates Limited where she held positions in Boston, Massachusetts and London.Jin holds a Bachelor of Economics from Mount Holyoke College, Massachusetts, and the Investment Management Certificate.Newton Investment Management Limited is a London-based global asset management subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and part of BNY Mellon Asset Management. With assets under management of more than 37 billion, the company provides a broad range of award-winning investment products and services to individuals, pension funds, charities and corporations. News and other information about Newton is available at www.newton.co.uk. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 34 countries and serving more than 100 markets. The company is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, providing superior asset management and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. It has more than $23 trillion in assets under custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and services $12 trillion in outstanding debt. Additional information is available at www.bnymellon.com.
