 THE Australian Securitisation Forum has called on the federal Government and central bank to do more to help reinvigorate the nation's moribund securitisation market.The industry lobby group, which represents participants in the asset-backed securities market, has called for the Reserve Bank of Australia to make some modifications to its daily open market operations to help improve both short and long-term liquidity in the market. The list of recommendations includes widening the eligibility criteria for collateral accepted by the RBA in open market operations to include issuers' own residential mortgage-backed securities. At present, financial institutions dealing with the RBA must provide collateral issued by third parties and not their own notes, except in exceptional circumstances. The RBA widened this eligibility to include RMBS in October last year to help restore liquidity to that market. The ASF is now suggesting the RBA reduce the 'haircut' or discount that it applies to the market value of assets counterparties sell to the RBA under repurchase agreements. The ASF's recommendations follow an extensive consultation process with market participants on how to improve the state of Australia's currently illiquid securitisation market. They come as financial markets approach the one-year anniversary of the August sub-prime credit crisis, which triggered a serious dislocation in credit spreads and investor confidence, essentially drying up liquidity in the Australian RMBS market. The ASF has also called for the Australian Office of Financial Management -- which issues government bonds on behalf of the Treasury Department -- to use its revenues to purchase both RMBS and asset-backed commercial paper to boost liquidity in these markets. ASF chief executive Greg Medcraft has been lobbying market participants and the Government since April to support the creation of a government-backed mortgage agency that could sell about $10 billion to $20 billion in mortgage bonds to investors. The agency would purchase AAA-rated RMBS from issuers, particularly non-bank lenders, to boost confidence and liquidity in the market. Other recommendations to market participants include better standardising RMBS transactions across industry and linking maturities to benchmark rates to appeal to cash-enhanced and bank bill-referenced funds. The ASF will also seek to advocate an increase of RMBS and fixed-income allocation to pension funds and sovereign wealth funds.Dow Jones Newswires 
