 TROY, Mich. - A settlement between the Department of Labor and Delphi Corp. requiring Delphi to return $2.2 million to one of its defined contribution plans was approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York on June 26, said Brad Mitchell, a DOL spokesman. The settlement resolves a claim filed by the Labor Department in bankruptcy court on July 31, 2006, that Delphi did not disclose and correct dividends that were improperly invested in General Motors Corp. stock between 2000 and 2003; the investments were required to go into an income fund, according to the procedures of the Delphi Personal Savings Plan for Hourly Employees in the U.S. The size of the specific plan could not be learned; Delphi's U.S. defined contribution plans totaled an estimated $3.9 billion as of Sept. 30. Lindsey Williamson, a Delphi spokesman, did not return a call seeking comment. Delphi filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in October 2005. Lifestyle funds get biggest share of DC inflows LINCOLNSHIRE, Ill. - Participants in 401(k) plans transferred $240 million into diversified equity funds in May, according to the Hewitt 401(k) Index. Lifestyle funds saw the largest net inflows in May, with $82 million. International funds received $59 million of the transfers, followed by U.S. large-cap equity at $53 million and domestic small-cap equity at $44 million. Company stock experienced the greatest outflows in May, with $123 million. A total of $752 million has been transferred out of company stock funds year-to-date.All three fixed-income classes - bonds, money market and GIC/stable value - saw net outflows. Bonds saw the greatest outflows, with $88 million for the month.Pre-retirees overestimate drawdowns, MetLife says NEW YORK - About 70% of pre-retirees surveyed by MetLife overestimate how much they can draw down from their savings, with 43% saying they believe they can withdraw 10% or more each year while still preserving their principal. Most retirement experts suggest a withdrawal rate of no more than 4% annually.According to the survey - MetLife's Retirement Income IQ Test - 67% of respondents don't know that Social Security, a defined benefit plan, and an income annuity all pool risk to pay out a lifetime stream of income; while 59% are seeking financial advice on such products as 401(k), retirement savings and long-term-care insurance. MetLife's Mature Market Institute conducted the nationwide survey of 1,216 individuals ages 56-65 in April.
