 Australia-based National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAUBF.PK:  News,   Chart,  Quote ) named Cameron Clyne, the head of its New Zealand unit, as the company's chief executive. He replaces John Stewart. The appointment of Clyne, effective January 1, 2009, comes less than a week after the company announced additional write-downs on assets related to the U.S. mortgage crisis.Last week, National Australia Bank, or NAB, announced that it has set aside A$830 million for credit market losses due to the worsening global credit crunch and the slump in the U.S. housing market. The provision is in addition to the A$181 million charge taken by the company in its half-year results to March 31, 2008. The announcement sent the company's stock on Friday to its biggest one-day drop since the stock market crash in 1987.Speculation was rife that Stewart's departure would be brought forward from the end of the current year after the bank's announcement of the additional write-downs. Stewart was appointed the bank's chief executive in early 2004 following a A$360 million foreign exchange trading scandal at the bank, in addition to write-downs from the acquisition of US-based mortgage company HomeSide Lending Inc.Michael Chaney, the company's chairman, said that Clyne's appointment represented the culmination of an extensive succession plan conducted over the last eighteen months, which included an international search. Clyne will work alongside Stewart as CEO designate from October 1 and take over at the beginning of next year.Chaney said, 'Cameron Clyne is an outstanding executive with the strategic, cultural and leadership qualities that fit the business at this time. He will become Group CEO designate on 1 October 2008 to ensure an orderly handover from John Stewart.'Clyne has led the Bank of New Zealand, NAB's New Zealand arm, since January 2007, with responsibility for the 4,300 staff and its extensive branch network. Since joining NAB in 2004, Cameron has been a member of the Group Executive Committee. He spent two and a half years of this period working with Stewart on the company's strategic agenda.
