 THE world financial crisis has lurched into a new and menacing phase that threatens a further cut to the availability of credit worldwide.The prospect of the two biggest mortgage financiers in the US requiring a government bailout will rattle markets in coming weeks. However, the bigger threat is the collapse of domestic demand in the US. Financial markets do not expect Australia to escape the fallout, with the likelihood of a rate rise by December being slashed from 70 to 35 per cent over the course of the past two weeks. There has been a series of soft economic numbers locally, including housing finance, credit growth, and business and consumer confidence. However, the change in the outlook for rates has been driven overwhelmingly by global factors. These include the downgrading of companies providing credit insurance, the continuing contraction of the US housing market and the increasingly acute financial woes of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have underwritten about a quarter of all outstanding US mortgages -- an exposure of some $US3 trillion ($3.1 trillion). When the US Federal Reserve swooped to save Bear Stearns from collapse in March, financial markets breathed a collective sigh of relief. As Westpac international economist Huw Mackay says, a lot of people expected a major financial institution to fail and Bear Stearns was at the top of the list. The US Federal Reserve not only saved it, but indicated it would do whatever it took to keep other banks from failing. Over the next two months, there was a feeling that the world had dodged a bullet. Better than expected US GDP growth in the first quarter of the year, equivalent to 1 per cent annually, and the continuing success of US financial institutions in raising fresh capital from sovereign wealth funds, encouraged a belief that the worst was over. Australian financial stocks enjoyed a 20 per cent rally between the Bear Stearns rescue and the middle of May, but have been tumbling ever since. Markets have been rattled by the downgrading of a series of credit insurance companies. They took lowly rated bonds, often from municipal councils, and guaranteed them, using their own triple-A rating, which enabled them to be sold to pension funds, endowments and banks. When the insurance companies were downgraded by the credit rating agencies, the bonds they guaranteed dropped below the minimum investment requirement for the funds that had bought them. Senior economist with finance broker ICAP, Matthew Johnson, estimates there are more than $US1 trillion in bonds in this position. Many are held by banks, which will have to mark down their value. Over the past week, markets have been mesmerised by the collapse in the value of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose shares plunged 45 per cent, while the run on California's biggest mortgage lender left it in the hands of regulators on Friday. The failure of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae would be catastrophic for the world economy, with more than $US1 trillion of their paper in the vaults of central banks around the world. But it has always been assumed the two financiers, which were privatised almost 40 years ago, carry an implicit government guarantee. That will not save their shareholders from losing everything, but US Congress will ensure that US taxpayers cover the gap between the revenue from their mouldering portfolio of mortgages and the interest they are required to pay to investors in the bonds they have issued. But such largesse is unlikely to be offered to every financial institution hitting the rocks. As domestic demand in the US economy shrinks, more are likely to founder. Although the US economy has held up better than many expected, it is sharply divided between the domestic and export sectors. Export industry is still doing well as the US dollar weakens and growth remains firm in Asia. But domestic demand is contracting, with a 23 per cent collapse in housing investment. The US commercial property market is also in trouble. Problems are accumulating at banks and second-tier financial institutions, with growing write-downs and reduced ability to lend. There are bound to be failures. The availability of credit will fall, raising the prospect of a vicious cycle between the financial and the real economy. As the Bank of International Settlements commented in its annual report ten days ago: 'A key question is whether the credit cycle may be leading the business cycle as financial institutions respond to weakened balance sheets by tightening the supply of credit.' The price of insuring against bonds going into default is rising. In Australia, the credit default spread on issues by the 25 largest companies peaked at 228 basis points as the Bear Stearns crisis erupted at the end of March. It eased to 79 basis points by May as a ray of optimism led markets to believe that the worst was over. They have since blown out to 165 basis points again. The interbank market remains reasonably liquid at the moment, with the gap between three-month bank bills and the underlying equivalent cash rate holding at around 40 basis points (about four times the pre-crisis level). However the cost of term borrowing is rising. Commonwealth Bank debt strategist Adam Donaldson says the spread on a five-year bond above the swap rate had reached a peak of 170 basis points for a couple of days around the Bear Stearns collapse but then eased to 115 basis points. It is now back to 150 basis points. Mr Donaldson says the domestic corporate bond market is effectively shut and companies seeking to raise debt are largely dependent on intermediated finance from the banks, the cost of which can be expected to rise. Share this article 
