NEW YORK (Dow Jones) -- Bank of America Corp. struggled to find buyers for a $10 billion stock offering Tuesday, showing how skittish investors are about pumping capital into financial institutions amid the chaos swirling through the global economy and markets. The Charlotte, N.C., bank announced the common-stock offering shortly after the closing bell Monday, and many analysts expected the deal to be priced by the time Bank of America shares opened for regular trading Tuesday. When that didn't happen, 'that probably did scare people,' said Jeffery Harte, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neill &amp;amp; Partners LP in Chicago. Bank of America issued a statement after the market closed saying it sold 455 million shares priced at $22, below Tuesday's close. The $10 billion offering includes an option for underwriters to purchase an additional 68.25 million shares, for a total of $11.22 billion. Nancy Bush, an analyst at NAB Research LLC in Annandale, N.J., said Bank of America had trouble finding enough investors willing to buy shares at the price the bank was seeking. 'They were trying to price at $28, and everybody just laughed at them,' she said. The standoff helped fuel a 26% plunge by Bank of America shares, which fell to $23.77, down $8.45, in New York Stock Exchange trading. In pre-market trading Wednesday, the shares were down another 6.2% to $22.30. The selloff also was punishment for Bank of America's announcement Monday of a worse-than-expected 68% decline in third-quarter profit, which fell to $1.18 billion, or 15 cents a share. Investors were further rattled by the bank's 50% dividend cut.  Joe Morford, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco, said investors drove a hard bargain because they could see Bank of America needed to bolster its capital even though it remains profitable overall and is raking in deposits from rivals. Deal fatigue appeared to be another factor. Bank of America's stock sale followed recent offerings by General Electric Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. Some analysts questioned why Bank of America didn't launch its stock offering when it announced the $44 billion purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. on Sept. 15. But bank executives likely didn't anticipate the markets' calamities since then. Kenneth Lewis, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call late Monday that the stock offering was timed to give the hard-charging bank an advantage over other banks. 'We just thought it was prudent to get out there sooner rather than later,' he said. -- Dan Fitzpatrick, The Wall Street Journal 
