Don't start stuffing wads of cash under the mattress quite yet.Despite the recent Wall Street turmoil, local financial gurus are preaching patience. 'What we're telling our clients is now is not a reasonable time to change their investments,' said Chris Borden, vice president and financial adviser for Canby Financial in Framingham. 'They shouldn't do anything rash,' said Jack Caulfield, president of St. Mary's Credit Union, headquartered in Marlborough. 'Have a long-term plan and stick to it.' For those who are a few years away from retirement and watching their retirement accounts deplete, such advise can ring hollow.For those on the cusp of retirement, Constance Barber, a certified financial planner in Natick, advises, 'Whatever you do, do not dip into what you've got.' She defined the financial crisis as 'a phase, not a financial Armageddon.' She tried to put the situation in perspective. 'On Black Monday (in 1987) the market dropped 23 percent. Yesterday (Monday) we dropped a little over 7 percent. So that puts it in perspective,' said Barber. Lifestyle changes, not necessarily portfolio changes, should be considered, said Barber.Some may have to work an extra year. Others may have to return to work on a part-time basis. Is that European vacation worth it?While such questions should be answered, panic should be avoided, said Barber. 'It brings people back to their fears of having a Great Depression, losing everything and becoming bag ladies,' said Barber. However, Babson College professor Peter Cohan, who also runs the financial consulting firm Peter S. Cohan Associates in Marlborough, did not back down from a comparison to the 1929 cataclysm. 'This looks a lot like what happened in the Great Depression,' he said. While there are insurances available and regulatory structures in place that were not available in October 1929, the marketplace is much more global in scope and assets are much more complex two factors that could forecast fiscal gloom. 'What happens here can affect China and what happens in China can come back and bite us,' said Cohan. For people nearing retirement, Cohan said, 'Take a look at your stocks and if you own any (stock in) banks that have mortgages on their books get rid of them.' While 20 percent of the banks folded during the Great Depression, Cohan expected 1,000 out of 8,400 in the country to collapse or merge.Such consolidation should have people in the financial sector questioning their job security, he said.When asked about swan-diving 401(k)s, Cohan pointed to the cyclical nature of the market. 'You can wait and earn it back in six years,' he said. 'You have to be thinking about that kind of time frame.' He was not alone in those sentiments. Barber described the recent Wall Street mergers and implosions 'a temporary blip' and rattled off an industry mantra. 'When all others are feeling greed, we should be fearful, and when all others are fearful, we should feel optimistic,' she said. Cohan said he also has looked at the present situation as a good time to buy, but he conceded 'I don't know what the bottom is.' 'You should be preserving what you have rather than gambling,' he said. It has been a tumultuous three weeks for Wall Street to say the least.On Sept. 7, the federal government bailed out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the tune of $100 billion.A week later, Merrill Lynch was sold to Bank of America for $50 billion, while Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy.The Dow Jones industrial average fell 504 points the next day, Sept. 15.On Sept. 16 the Federal Reserve lent insurance giant AIG $85 billion to stabilize that company.On Sept. 20, President George W. Bush codified more figures for an even larger bailout for the financial sector: $700 billion.The next day it was announced that Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley two of the biggest investment banks left would be converting into commercial banks subject to more regulation.On Sept. 25 Washington Mutual, the nation's largest savings and loans entity, was sold to JP Morgan Chase.On Sept. 29, the proposed bailout was defeated in the House, and the Dow average dropped 777 points, the worst single-day point drop ever. 'It's kind of like bombs are going off above us but it's not impacting us,' said Caulfield. 'We're reading about Wall Street, problems with subprime mortgages with larger banks merging or failing, but we didn't participate in this action.' Information from the Associated Press was used in this article.(Dan McDonald can be reached at 508-626-4416 or at dmcdonal@cnc.com.)
