Bankruptcy for the nation's largest chicken producer, Pilgrim's Pride Corp., is 'highly probable,' according to an independent research firm.Shares of Pilgrim's Pride slipped below $1 Thursday on the news, continuing their erosion just days after the company announced it had reached another agreement to temporarily extend its credit facilities, this time through the end of November.The Pittsburg, Texas, company  whose margins have been hammered by high input costs and weak demand  also said it will exercise its 30-day grace period in making a $25.7 million interest payment due Nov. 3 on its senior notes.When that grace period runs out, 'a bankruptcy scenario now seems highly probable,' according to research firm CreditSights. The firm said in a note Wednesday that though the company was able to secure a second temporary waiver, it does little good.'Although the temporary waiver provides Pilgrim's Pride with another 30 days of life, it appears to be more illusionary than substantive,' the report said.Pilgrim's Pride spokesman Ray Atkinson said the company continues 'to believe Chapter 11 is not in anyone's best interest.''We are continuing to work toward a long-term solution to improve our liquidity and to capitalize on our strategic advantages,' he wrote in an e-mail.Atkinson said CreditSights never contacted the company for comment for its report.Pilgrim's Pride, like many food makers, has been hampered by high costs for key ingredients like corn and oil. It hedged some of its purchases but as prices moderated, it lost money on those hedges. The company said in late September it would post a 'significant loss' in the fourth quarter, largely on those bad hedges. It has not yet said when it will release its fourth-quarter results.In late September, Pilgrim's Pride secured a first temporary credit waiver, which expired Tuesday. On Monday it announced it had received the second credit waiver, which runs through Nov. 26.The industry has also been hurting because of weak demand  partially caused by slow sales in restaurants as hard-pressed consumers eat at home more. An oversupply on the market has also been keeping prices down, but companies are cutting production, which will help bolster pricing.Analysts have been speculating about the probability of bankruptcy for Pilgrim's Pride, though none have been as emphatic as CreditSights.Barclays Capital analyst Christopher Bledsoe said last week he thought it unlikely that Pilgrim's Pride's lenders would encourage it to seek bankruptcy protection because much of the industry is hurting.He said if that happened, the company would have to sell its assets, including chicken products. That would then flood the market  which the industry is already trying to avoid  and push prices downward for everyone, including competitors. Banks wouldn't like that because they are lending to companies throughout the industry, so it would just hurt their other customers, he said.Tightening credit markets amid a weakening global economy are making it more difficult for many companies to get financing, particularly one like Pilgrim's Pride, Bledsoe said. The company carries a large debt load primarily from its $1.3 billion acquisition of rival Gold Kist Inc. in early 2007, which made it the nation's biggest chicken producer, just edging out rival Tyson Foods Inc.Bledsoe said the banks may prefer Pilgrim's Pride to be sold either outright or at least in part, preferably to someone with a stronger balance sheet.But CreditSights noted given the credit environment, with financing hard to come by, it would be more difficult for anyone to get funding to make a purchase.The company has said it is working toward a restructuring and addressing industry woes. The waiver reached this week requires Pilgrim's Pride to hire a chief restructuring officer, who will be selected from a list of lender-approved candidates.Atkinson said no decision has been made.Shares of Pilgrim's Pride fell 34 cents, or 27 percent, to 92 cents in midday trading Thursday. The stock's 52-week high is $30.15.Check Screen Name AvailabilityScreen names can only consist of letters and numbers.Leave CommentConversation guidelines: We welcome your thoughts and information related to this article. When leaving comments please stay on topic and be respectful of others.You must be logged in to contribute. Log in   Register Now!You are logged in as screenname   Log OutYou are logged in, but do not have a 'screen' name. Update Your Profile
