IMF chief urges European leaders to work together PARIS (Reuters) - The head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) urged European leaders Saturday to agree a coordinated approach to deal with the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. French President Nicolas Sarkozy is hosting heads of government from Germany, Italy and Britain Saturday for a summit he hopes will restore confidence to the banking sector and help an economy on the brink of recession in much of the developed world. Belgium, Luxembourg scramble to sell Fortis BRUSSELS/LUXEMBOURG (Reuters) - The governments of Belgium and Luxembourg scrambled to find a buyer for the remains of troubled financial group Fortis (FOR.BR) on Saturday after the Netherlands nationalized most of its Dutch units. The break-up of the cross-border banking and insurance group, less than a week after a first rescue attempt in which the three governments injected 11.2 billion euros, highlighted the ferocity with which the global crisis has swept into Europe. Wells bids $15 billion for Wachovia; scuffles with Citi NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co (WFC.N) agreed to buy Wachovia Corp (WB.N) for about $15 billion, upstaging a government-backed Citigroup Inc bid for Wachovia's banking assets with a deal that would catapult it into the top ranks of national consumer banking. Citigroup (C.N) demanded Wells Fargo (WFC.N) drop its surprise bid, which comes four days after Wachovia preliminarily agreed to sell its banking assets to Citi for $2.2 billion with partial government guarantees on $312 billion of Wachovia's mortgages. AIG to sell Japanese life insurance units TOKYO (Reuters) - American International Group Inc, plans to sell its three Japanese life insurance businesses, an AIG spokesman said on Saturday, in sale Japanese media estimated could top $9.5 billion. AIG, once the world's largest insurer, said on Friday it will focus on its main insurance operations and put the rest of its businesses up for sale to repay up to $85 billion borrowed from the U.S. government. Lehman creditors seek to probe firm: report NEW YORK (Reuters) - Unsecured creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LEHMQ.PK) asked a court overseeing Lehman's bankruptcy proceedings for permission to investigate how the firm ran out of money, The Wall Street Journal reported on its website on Friday. The group said that JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co (JPM.N), which acted as a middleman between Lehman and other lenders, helped spark a liquidity crisis at Lehman before it filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings earlier this month, the Journal reported. Stocks drop on economic concerns despite bailout NEW YORK (Reuters) -Wall Street ended its worst week in seven years with another tumble on Friday on fears that the $700 billion financial rescue package may not unblock credit markets and stave off a U.S. recession. After much legislative haggling that roiled and captivated global markets for the past two weeks, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill on its second try and President George W. Bush signed it into law. 
