Mitsubishi UFJ (MTU:MTUNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) said Wednesday that the deal will close on Oct. 14. Morgan Stanley (MS:MSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) said Tuesday that the investment will boost capital and help reduce leverage. The firm also noted that it has cut assets by at least $87 billion to less than $900 billion since the end of August. Morgan Stanley shares rose 2.2% to $18.05 during afternoon trading on Wednesday, after slumping more than 25% on Tuesday. Spreads on Morgan Stanly credit default swaps traded 19.5% upfront, according to Phoenix Partners Group. That's down from 20% upfront Tuesday, but still at distressed levels. In the middle of September, Morgan Stanley CDS spreads were less than 600 basis points above Treasury bond yields. When CDS contracts trade upfront, that means investors seeking protection against a default by the thrift must pay fees immediately. These contracts usually require only annual payments. But when concerns reach extreme levels, sellers of protection demand money upfront, too. Upfront spreads on CDS of 20% mean that investors seeking protection on $100 million of debt would need to pay $20 million upfront and $5 million a year. 'Bernstein had hoped that Morgan Stanley's confidence issue would be solved when the firm raised capital,' Brad Hintz, a securities industry analyst at Bernstein Research, wrote in a note to investors on Wednesday. 'But despite Morgan Stanley's announcement... the credit default spreads on the company's debt continued to widen.' A Morgan Stanley spokesman declined to comment on Wednesday. The movement of Morgan Stanley CDS spreads seems 'irrational,' because the firm is well capitalized, especially after the Mitsubishi UFG investment closes, Hintz added. Fear may be driving spreads wider. Some big fixed-income investors who lost money after Lehman Brothers collapsed also hold Morgan Stanley debt. Having lost faith in the creditworthiness of the securities industry, these investors may be buying protection in the CDS market because it's difficult to sell Morgan Stanley debt right now, Hintz said. The biggest holders of Morgan Stanley senior debt include Pimco, Barclays, Vanguard and MetLife, the analyst said, citing Bloomberg data. Some hedge funds had assets unexpectedly tied up in the bankruptcy of Lehman's U.K. brokerage unit. Now managers are being careful about their exposure to the U.K. prime brokerage businesses of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, Hintz said. Morgan and Goldman are the world's largest prime brokers, lending money and securities to hedge funds and providing other services to managers. UBS analyst Glenn Schorr said he met recently with Morgan Stanley Chief Financial Officer Colm Kelleher and concluded that the firm's access to funding is 'relatively fine for now.' Kelleher and other managers believe the wider CDS spreads are a near-term phenomenon driven by fear, Schorr said. 'While that might be true, so far the wider CDS spreads have been a drag on the franchise [especially in prime brokerage], but we don't think that there have been any significant issues with trading counterparties [though we're sure everyone's nervous],' Schorr wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. The wider CDS spreads have dragged on Morgan Stanley's prime brokerage business and client balances have declined, the analyst added. However, Schorr said the firm's management told him there have been 'no real issues' with trading counterparties. Morgan Stanley converted to a bank holding company recently, giving it more access to loans from the Federal Reserve. The firm would struggle to borrow money in private markets now, but both Hintz and Schorr stressed that Morgan Stanley won't have to tap the unsecured debt market until the third quarter of 2009. The firm also had almost $180 billion in liquid, or easily sellable, assets at its holding company and its subsidiaries, Hintz noted. That should be more than enough to deal with short-term funding disruptions, the analyst added. Still, Morgan Stanley will have to issue unsecured debt at some point, probably in 2010, Hintz said. 'In the unlikely event that the credit markets remain frozen beyond that time, the company would likely find its credit ratings under pressure as its core liquidity position weakens,' the analyst wrote. 'We expect Morgan Stanley to be one of the survivors of the current financial crisis,' he added, while warning that 'given the continuing disruptions occurring in the credit markets, any investment in this financial institution comes at significant risk.'  SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Uncertainty swirling around Morgan Stanley lingered on Wednesday despite confirmation from Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group that it's investing $9 billion in the investment bank. 
