when Rohit Kumar (name changed) wound up work and left for home, he knew that his employer, Lehman Brothers, was in a spot of trouble.However, over the week, as rumours got stronger and stronger, his bosses in his office in Powai, Mumbai, assured him that the India unit would not be affected. We were told that none of this would affect us, Barclays or someone would buy the parent company over and our life would go on as usual. We were not misled by our bosses, this is what they believed as well,On Sunday night, his phone rang. It was a colleague who asked him to watch CNN. The company had filed for bankruptcy, the TV news showed employees trooping out of the US office carrying boxes of their personal belongings. Kumar sat up and watched the news unfold all night.Even on Monday morning, when I drove to work, I expected that my job would still be safe. I was anxious, but I wasnt panicking. Maybe I was in denial,Loan load. The first worry for Kumar was his home loan. He had bought a house in Mumbai in 2006. After seven years with his previous employer, Kumar had signed the appointment letter from Lehman. There was a fat joining bonus and 60 per cent jump in his salary and even though real estate prices were high, the EMI seemed well within his new budget. My wife also works, but her salary does not even cover the EMI, much less our monthly expense,Job search constraints. There are two problems now,Fund value. It is important that we set aside a contingency fund of three to six months living expenses. But, warm in the cocoon of a secure job and stable life, most of us often ignore this step. In Kumars case, his EMI is substantial and he does not have liquid funds beyond his salary.Security BlanketsBe your own FM.  Financial experts say the first thing to do while preparing a strategy for a sudden layoff is to make a survival budget. Kumar expects it will be at least five months before he starts his new job. His wifes salary can cover their basic expenses like food, transport, electricity and water bills.Health coverfor you, by you. If you are laid off suddenly, there are steps you need to take,Portfolio management. The next step is to look at your investments. If you have an equity portfolio, you may have to liquidate a part of it. Says Mashruwala, If you have debt, then in times like this you will have to liquidate your equity. Keep funds aside for the next six months expenses and use the rest towards part-prepayment of your loan.You should also relook at your debt instruments. If you have fixed deposits, try and reallocate these to schemes that offer monthly interest payout. Certain bank and post-office schemes offer this option.Seconds to go. If you do not have enough equity to cash in and see you through the next few months, then you will have to think about cashing in on some other assets. If you have two cars, you could sell one off. Or if you have invested in a second home or plot of land, you could liquidate these and use the funds to see you through the next few months and use the remaining to pay off your loans.Gold glitters. If you have invested in gold, then this is a good time to cash in on that. Gold prices are very high and the money would come in handy.No credit on card.  Tempted as you might be, do not use your credit card as a loan mechanism. Use the credit card sparingly and pay off your entire dues. If you are really strapped for cash, you can take a loan from close family members or opt for a personal loan from a bank. The last thing you want chasing you at this stressful time is sky-high interest payment on credit card dues.Lesson from Lehman. What is happening to financial services employees around the world has once again highlighted the importance of contingency planning. Like Kumar, no one expects we will lose our jobs overnight. It is not impossible anymore that companies that have survived decades (and in Lehmans case, centuries) crumble into nothing overnight. Building a contingency reserve and setting aside money for the next six months will save us not just a little anxiety but also the desperation associated with finding the next job. You can wait for the right offer to come along and negotiate a little better if you have the confidence of that money in your bank account.
