','http:ads.cnn.com/html.ng/site=cnn_money&amp;amp;cnn_money_pagetype=article&amp;amp;cnn_money_position=220x200_ctr&amp;amp;cnn_money_rollup=markets_and_stocks&amp;amp;cnn_money_section=quigo THE EVENT: As the fallout of the financial crisis continues, Wachovia Corp. ( WB) agreed to sell itself to Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co. (WFC) in a $15.1 billion takeover that will require no government assistance, scrapping a federally backed deal with Citigroup Inc. (C). Citigroup is considering filing a lawsuit to block the Wells Fargo deal.In another corporate development, American International Group Inc. (AIG) said it will keep its core insurance businesses and consider selling its other businesses.In Washington, the U.S. House of Representatives cleared a procedural hurdle to vote on $700 billion rescue package. The House is expected to vote on the underlying rescue bill around noon EDT. No amendments to the rescue package will be allowed.MARKET REACTION: U.S. stocks rose Friday on the Wells Fargo-Wachovia deal that does not include government financing and on hopes the House will pay the rescue package. Dow Jones Industrials rose 230 points to 10713.Oil futures rose 79 cents to $94.76 a barrel. Gold futures edged up 80 cents to $845.10 an ounce. The euro clawed back some of its heavy losses against the dollar. The British pound also rose. The dollar rose against the yen and euro.NOTABLE NEWS:WACHOVIA AGREES TO DIFFERENT DEAL: The Wells Fargo offer is for $7 a share, based on Thursday's closing price, 79% above where Wachovia shares finished. Wells Fargo will assume Wachovia's preferred stock and debt. The deal comes four days after Wachovia and Citigroup reached a $2.16 billion agreement in principle to sell its banking operations to Citigroup.CITIGROUP RESPONDS: Citigroup executives are considering filing a lawsuit against Wells Fargo and Wachovia and also may sweeten their bid for Wachovia, according to the Wall Street Journal. Citigroup is accusing Wachovia of breaching the 'exclusivity agreement' between the two banks.AIG TO SELL SOME BUSINESSES: The company will focus on its core insurance businesses. Other AIG businesses are up for sale. Among the AIG units on the block: the company's U.S. life, retirement and pensions businesses; its personal-lines property-casualty business; at least a minority stake in its foreign life insurance business; and its non-insurance businesses. According to Japanese newspaper The Nikkei, AIG's Japanese unit plans to sell Alico Japan, AIG Edison Life Insurance Co. and AIG Star Life Insurance Co.HOUSE SET TO VOTE ON RESCUE PACKAGE: Friday's outcome is expected to be favorable for the rescue package. House Republicans said several colleagues intend to switch their votes. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said Thursday she would not bring the bill to the House floor unless it had votes for passage.MORE GRIM ECONOMIC NEWS: Nonfarm payrolls tumbled 159,000 in September, the Labor Department said, the sharpest decline since March 2003. The pullback was broad-based, including manufacturing, construction and many service industries. August was revised to show a slightly smaller decline than first estimated. The unemployment rate, which is calculated using a separate survey of households, was unchanged at 6.1%, though it had risen sharply in previous months. Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http: www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=Vc9r665wH2ZTgaAC6xwl%2Bg%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 10-03-08 1155ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
