By Judith Burns, Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRESWASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission announced Wednesday that it is extending a temporary emergency action to prohibit short selling in financial company stocks.Regulators said the short-sale ban, set to expire Thursday, will remain in place to give Congress time to work on a financial-rescue package, but won't run beyond 11:59 p.m. Eastern time on Friday, Oct. 17.The ban could end sooner if lawmakers act swiftly: The SEC called for the ban to end on the third business day after Congress enacts the legislation.The U.S. Senate is voting on the measure Wednesday night and it is expected to be put to a vote by the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday.Other temporary measures put in place by the SEC last month that also were set to expire will be extended until Oct. 17. They include an easing of restrictions on the ability of companies to buy back their own shares, and a requirement for large money managers to provide weekly reports on short positions.The short-position reporting requirement will be modified so that the reports are kept confidential, rather than being released publicly, the SEC announced. However, regulators said they intend to adopt interim final rules that will require money managers to file the reports 'without interruption' after Oct. 17. The change is the second that regulators have made to the rule. The SEC first said it would release the reports immediately, but agreed to delay public release in response to objections from hedge funds and other money managers. The revised order specifies that disclosure under the emergency order 'will be made only to the SEC.' Stricter requirements for delivering stocks borrowed for use in short sales also will be extended through Oct. 17, and the SEC said it intends to issue interim final rules to have those requirements continue without interruption after that date as well.The SEC emergency orders were issued to prevent aggressive short selling of financial stocks after U.S. stock markets were roiled by bad news, including the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH), the sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. Inc. (MER) to Bank of America Corp. (BAC) and a federal bailout of insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG). The short-sale ban originally targeted 799 financial companies, but the number expanded to nearly 1,000 after the SEC allowed exchanges to add qualifying companies to the list.Short sellers aim to profit from declining stock prices by borrowing shares for sale and replacing them later at a lower price. The practice is legal and the emergency restrictions were an unusual step. The restrictions, announced on Sept. 17 and Sept. 18, were put in place for 10 days, although the SEC has authority to keep such orders in place for up to 30 days if it deems that necessary.In announcing the extension, the SEC said that short selling 'plays an important role in the market for a variety of reasons, including contributing to efficient price discovery, mitigating market bubbles, increasing market liquidity, promoting capital formation, facilitating hedging and other risk management activities, and importantly, limiting upward market manipulations.' It also pointed to the downside of short selling, saying it can be used to manipulate prices lower and wreak havoc on market confidence. 'This kind of manipulative activity is particularly problematic in the midst of a loss in market confidence. For example, in the context of a credit crisis where financial institutions face liquidity challenges, but are otherwise solvent, a decrease in their share price induced by short selling may lead to further credit tightening for these entities, possibly resulting in loss of confidence in these institutions,' the SEC said. -By Judith Burns, Dow Jones Newswires; (202) 862-6692; judith.burns@ dowjones.com. 
