Larry Roth, chief executive of AIG Advisor Group, is assiduously trying to convince financial advisers to stay in their seats while the firm's parent - American International Group Inc. of New York- attempts to find a buyer for three broker-dealers. Last Monday, during a conference call with representatives from the three AIG broker-dealers - AIG Financial Advisors Inc. of Phoenix, FSC Securities Corp. of Atlanta and Royal Alliance Associates Inc. of New York - he said that the broker-dealers will be sold as part of a package that includes the entire retirement services group, according to reps. During the call, Mr. Roth said that AIG management will do everything in the best interests of the reps and their clients in finding a buyer, sources said. He also said that a retention package of some sort would likely be included in the deal. He would like to see a deal completed by the end of the year, Mr. Roth told the reps. Some advisers said that finding a new owner that's a good fit for the broker-dealers is a key issue. 'I'm not looking to jump ship, but I have to keep my options open,' said Mark Snyder, an adviser in Medford, N.Y., who is affiliated with Royal Alliance. Meanwhile, the 7,000 reps and advisers at the AIG broker-dealers are being courted heavily by competitors, recruiters and reps said. 'I'm getting two or three letters or postcards each day,' Mr. Snyder said. The reps with the AIG firms are by far more focused on clients than on leaving, Mr. Roth said in an interview Friday afternoon. 'The advisers I'm talking to are spending 98% of their time talking to clients,' he said. Changing broker-dealers in this market would be an 'emotional decision, not an intellectual one,' Mr. Roth said. He is aware that competitors are reaching out to reps, 'but I can't think of a worse time to change broker-dealers' in the wake of the widespread damage to clients' portfolios, he said. 'The retirement services group, which the broker-dealers are a part of, will attract many high-quality firms' as potential buyers, Mr. Roth added. A prominent suitor for the AIG reps and advisers is another group of insurance company broker-dealers, Santa Monica, Calif.-based National Planning Holdings Inc., industry sources said. NPH presents a formidable threat to Mr. Roth's efforts to hang on to AIG's advisers. Last year, it roiled industry executives - and delighted independent reps - with an upfront recruitment offer of up to 42.5% of an adviser's fees and commissions. That is almost double the norm among independent broker-dealers. The timing of the recruitment offer was also remarkable, ob-servers noted. NPH, which is a business unit of Jackson National Life Insurance Co. of Lansing, Mich., took the deal off the table earlier this year and then reintroduced it in the middle of last month. That was near the time the federal government said it was keeping AIG afloat with an $85 billion line of credit. Such timing leads some in the industry to think NPH is gunning for AIG advisers, industry sources said. Not so, said Tim Padot, a spokes-man for NPH, stressing that the financial services industry as a whole has seen dramatic change. 'The timing is not intended to target a specific firm,' he said. The offer stands for a variety of brokers and advisers, including bank brokers and wirehouse reps, not just independents, Mr. Padot said. In fact, the phone has been ringing off the hook at the NPH broker-dealers in the last couple of weeks, he added. The broker-dealers in the network typically get two to four calls per day from reps and advisers curious about the firms. That has jumped to 10 to 30, Mr. Padot said. NPH has four broker-dealers in its network: Invest Financial Corp. of Tampa, Fla., Investment Centers of America Inc. of Bismarck, N.D., National Planning Corp. of Santa Monica, Calif., and SII Investments Inc. of Appleton, Wis. Last Wednesday, the federal government reopened its coffers for AIG, announcing it could access an additional $37.8 billion from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. One industry recruiter said reps and advisers need to look beyond money whenever they consider leaving firms. 'Upfront money is very enticing,' said Jodie Papike, vice president of Cross-Search, a Jamul, Calif., re-cruiting firm for independent reps and executives. 'But advisers need to look at all the factors, like technology and the back office, and not just be blinded by money.' One adviser agrees. 'The person who moves, and moves right now because someone is holding out a check, is not using their heads,' said Jeffrey Vahanian, who is affiliated with Royal Alliance and is based in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. 'I'm not thinking about life after Royal; I'm thinking about my business.' E-mail Bruce Kelly at bkelly@investmentnews.com. 
