LONDON/TOKYO, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Japan's Nomura Holdings Inc, (News) which is taking over most of Lehman Brothers' business in Europe and Asia, has asked two former bankers from the failed U.S. firm to head its equities businesses in Europe and Asia. Nomura said it appointed Sigurbjorn Thorkelsson, former head of Lehman's equity business for the Asia region, as head of Nomura's equity operations for Asia, including Japan. Rachid Bouzouba, the former Lehman head of equities for Europe and the Middle East, will be Nomura's head of equity sales and trading operations for Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), the biggest Japanese investment bank said in a statement. The two will report to Hiromasa Yamazaki, head of Nomura's global equity business, and assume their new positions on Nov. 1. A person close to the bank said eight former Lehman bankers in Europe have also been appointed to senior roles in the EMEA region. These are: * Co-Global head of prime services -- Gunner Burkhart * Head of equity structured products -- Abdelkerim Karim * Head of equity sales -- Axel Kilian * Head of equity lidquid markets -- Emad Morrar * Head of equity research -- Paul Norris * COO equities -- Slim Baccar * CAO equities -- Chuck Teixeira Nomura bankers Naoki Matsuba and Naoyuki Oguri have been appointed as equities transition manager and chief strategy officer, respectively, for equities in the EMEA region. Banks have been competing for former Lehman staff since British bank Barclays acquired Lehman's North American investment banking business and Nomura took over its operations in EMEA and Asia a month ago after parent Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (News) filed for bankruptcy. (Reporting by Daisy Ku and Junko Fujita; Editing by Quentin Bryar) Keywords: NOMURA/LEHMAN tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.comakCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2007. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
