General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler LLC, the three biggest U.S. automakers, may be forced into bankruptcy as the global credit freeze damps U.S. sales, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's analyst Robert Schulz said.'Macro factors could overwhelm them at some point' even as GM, Ford and Chrysler vow to stick with theirturnaround plans, Schulz, S&amp;amp;P's lead automotive credit analyst, said in a BloombergTelevision interview. The companies said they have no plans to seek bankruptcy protection.His assessment underscored the pressure on the industry as the worsening credit crisis makes it harder for buyers to get loans and for dealers to finance their operations. S&amp;amp;P said Friday that it may further trim credit ratings for GM and Ford on forecasts that 2009 auto demand will fall to its lowest level since 1992.With all three companies working to boost cash, any bankruptcy filing would be a last resort, not a 'strategic' decision, Schulz said.'We don't see that as something they would choose,' he said. Schulz said the 'trigger' for a forced restructuring under bankruptcy protection would be based on the automakers' ability to preserve liquidity as sales decline. Industrywide U.S. sales slid 27 percent last month, the most in 17 years.'Bankruptcy not option''Bankruptcy is not an option GM is considering,' spokeswoman Renee Rashid-Merem said Friday. 'It's not in the interests of our employees, stockholders, suppliers or customers.'Operating-cash needs at GM, Ford and Chrysler are 'substantial, so if it looked like they were going to be pushing toward that number because of these operating losses and cash usage, that's sort of the point where they'd have to consider' bankruptcy, Schulz said.S&amp;amp;P said its debt ratingsfor GM and Ford, already atsix steps below investment grade at B-, may be lowered again because the automakersface a 'serious challenge' in 2009.Barclays Capital reduced its target stock price for GM to$4 Friday, with analyst Brian Johnson citing dwindling global auto demand.
