MILWAUKEE -- Shares of the nation's chicken producers mostly fell Thursday with the broader market, giving back earlier gains after the Agriculture Department said the number of chicken eggs in incubators last week was at its lowest level in five years.Shares of the nation's largest chicken producer, Pilgrim's Pride Corp., rose 17 cents, or 5.4 percent, to $3.30 in afternoon trading. Shares of Tyson Foods Inc., which makes chicken, beef and pork, fell 10 cents to $11.10. The Dow Jones industrial average dipped below the 9,000 level late in the afternoon, led by a steep decline in shares of component General Motors Corp.On Wednesday, the USDA's National Agriculture Statistics Service reported that in the week ended Saturday, there were 11 percent fewer chicken eggs in incubators compared with the same week of 2007. The decline provided evidence of an expected production cut for the industry, which is seeing squeezed margins.The industry has been hurt by high costs for key ingredients like corn and oil. At the same time, an oversupply of meat on the market has been keeping prices down.Paul Aho, a poultry consultant in Connecticut, said it was too soon to say if the decline in egg production signals a turnaround for the chicken industry. If the decline remains at around the same level over the next several weeks, that could be a true indication of chicken production cuts.Meanwhile, JPMorgan analyst Ken Goldman increased his fiscal 2009 earnings-per-share estimate for Tyson from 81 cents to $1.28. He wrote in a research note Thursday the company is seeing cheaper input costs, its balance sheet is healthy, and it is taking share from weaker competitors.Goldman also wrote that Pilgrim's Pride 'faces immediate credit default risk.' He said fundamentals are improving, but 'we still see too many risks to be overly optimistic near-term on the pure-play processors.' The company has secured a temporary waiver with its creditors to provide it with liquidity through Oct. 28.Poultry producer Sanderson Farms Inc., he wrote, would soon benefit from less expensive corn and fewer chickens. But he said it still has to contend with 'unprecedented weakness in demand for chicken.'Sanderson, of Laurel, Miss., said Thursday it plans to file a shelf registration to sell up to $1 billion in stock. Its shares fell $2.37, or 6.6 percent, to $33.63. The company said the money would be used for acquisitions and not to raise cash for liquidity.Barclays Capital analyst Christopher Bledsoe wrote in a note that the money could signal Sanderson wants 'the option to participate in industry consolidation.'He said he did not want to speculate as to which company Sanderson could buy, but the timing of the registration was of note considering Pilgrim's Pride's temporary waiver for liquidity ends this month.
