NEW YORK (MarketWatch) - American Express on Thursday became the latest iconic American firm to announce major layoffs triggered by the worst economic crisis in seven decades, unveiling plans to slash 7,000 employees. Highlighting that even some of the most creditworthy and wealthiest Americans are having trouble paying their bills, American Express said that it is cutting 10% of its staff, suspending management salary increases and instituting a hiring freeze.  American Express, a component in the Dow Jones Industrial average, is following moves by other major firms like Hewlett Packard, Goldman Sachs, Whirlpool, and Yahoo, which have all recently announced layoffs of 5% to 10% of their staff. So far this month, Goldman has said it would cut 3,200 jobs, Whirlpool dropped the axe on 5,000 staff, Yahoo cut 1,000 positions, and Hewlett unveiled a stunning 24,000 job losses. And, while full details are unclear, analysts at Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods said earlier this week that probably about half of Lehman Brothers worldwide staff of about 26,000 employees, 10,000 of whom are inside the U.S., would lose their jobs after the company went bankrupt earlier this year. Barclays has acquired Lehman's U.S. brokerage business, and Nomura acquired parts of Lehman's Europe and Asia operations. AmEx taking charge American Express (AXP:AXPNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) said it would take a pre-tax restructuring charge of up to $440 million against fourth-quarter results to cover job-cut expenses. Shares of American Express traded 2% higher in morning action. The job cuts will be made across the company's business units, American Express said. The move comes amid what CEO Ken Chenault called 'one of the most challenging economic environments we've seen in many decades.' The credit crunch has made it harder for financial-services companies to package up and sell on, or securitize, the loans they make. That's an important source of funding for American Express, which isn't connected to a large bank, like rival Bank of America (BAC:BACNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) . Earlier this month, American Express said third-quarter net income fell 24% as the company set aside more money to cover bad loans.  The company began allowing more customers to carry a balance on their credit cards in recent years. That was a big change for the company, which traditionally offered cards to well-off customers, the balances of which needed to be paid off every month. At that time, Chenault cautioned that events in the third quarter and since then have 'reinforced our view that consumer and business sentiment is likely to deteriorate further, translating into weaker economies around the globe well into 2009.' And he concluded that 'cardmember spending is likely to remain soft.' Analysts are growing more and more convinced that the credit-card industry will suffer huge losses as the credit crisis plays out. According to a report last month from investment research firm Innovest StrategicValue Advisors, banks will charge off $18.6 billion in delinquent credit-card accounts in the first quarter of 2009 and $96 billion in all of 2009 -- more than double the research firm's forecast for all of this year.  Financial services feels cuts and expects more The financial services sector has seen a concentrated growth in job losses amid unprecedented investment and loan losses and the collapse or consolidation of some of the largest firms in the industry. Lauren Smith, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods, said in a research report earlier this week that 'the current credit crisis is unparalleled in its scope and has far reaching global implications. Consolidation has been fast and furious leaving many tens of thousands unemployed and it appears likely that there are more reductions to come.' According to her research as of Oct. 28, total US employment for the securities industry has declined over the past few months from a peak of 869,000 reached in June 2008. Among the financial services sector in addition to the Goldman and American Express job cuts, UBS has unveiled plans to cut almost 9,000 jobs, or about 10% of staff this year and Morgan Stanley too has trimmed about 10% of its workforce this year, or about 4,800 jobs. And, more job losses are likely coming down the pike in the financial sector as consolidation continues and some other firms are likely to go out of business. 'For example,' Keefe Bruyette's Smith wrote, 'the fallout of the combination of Bank America, with 247,024 employees and Merrill Lynch (MER:MERNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) , with 64,200 employees, is expected to be several thousand (jobs) as the management teams have stated that they are looking to achieve $7 billion of cost savings.' 
