*** Ted Butler on Silver *** Delaying Tactics and Interview By: Theodore Butler and James Cook 8 December, 2008 Heres a quick follow-up to last weeks comment about the CFTC sending out form letters to me and many of you asking for specific evidence about a manipulation in silver prices. A number of you asked me how to respond. Before you respond, it is important to understand what the Commission is trying to accomplish with their notifications. They are not looking for specific evidence. They are looking to buy time. They are stalling. All the evidence the CFTC needs is already known to them. Specifically, the evidence is in their August Bank Participation Report which indicated that one or two U.S. banks held a concentrated net short position equal to 25% of the annual world mine production of silver. Such a degree of concentration, on either the long or short side of any market, is manipulative, in and of itself. If not, then the CFTC should simply explain why such a large concentrated position should not be considered manipulative and put the matter to rest. No taxpayer funded, long drawn-out investigation, just an explanation. In addition, I have provided the Commission with additional specific evidence, in the form of proof that there was intentional forced liquidation of almost 15,000 long silver/short gold spread contracts on the COMEX over the past six weeks. The proof also is known to the CFTC, as it is contained in their weekly Commitment of Traders Reports (COT). That should be enough evidence for anyone. But wait, theres more. The just released December Bank Participation Report (BP), as well as the most recent COT, both as of the close of business December 2, provide more evidence of manipulation in COMEX silver. While the number of contracts held by the one or two U.S. banks is lower than the peak in August, the percentage of concentration of the total futures market has grown to the highest level in history. Whereas the one or two U.S. banks held 25.4% of the entire market in August, the big U.S. bank(s) holds 29.9% now. And when all spreads are removed (as they should be), the concentrated short position of the big U.S. bank(s) rises to almost 40% of the entire COMEX futures market. Further, the level of historic concentration on the short side is confirmed by the latest COT. The level of the net short position of the four largest traders is now 46.6%, the highest level in five or six years. Adjusting for spreads, the true net short position of the big 4 is an astounding 60% of the entire market. The COT also indicates that the next 4 largest traders (5 thru 8) now hold the smallest net short position in 11 years. What this means is that the short position is becoming more concentrated, as fewer and fewer participants choose to be short a market at stupid low prices. The only traders willing to increase their short bets are the manipulators. This is who the CFTC is protecting. You must apply a little common sense here. With silver prices far below the cost of production, there is little economic justification for legitimate short hedging. After all, who would choose to lock in a loss? Therefore, there is little evidence that the big concentrated short position is legitimate. Thats why fewer and fewer traders are interested in shorting silver at current price levels. Just the few manipulators remain short. Tell the CFTC to stop looking to you for specific evidence of manipulation and to start analyzing their own data. Tell them to stop stalling and to start doing their jobs. [Editors note: We would also tell them to talk to Ted Butler. Any investigation that bypasses him is truly bogus.] THEODORE BUTLER INTERVIEW Early December 2008 Cook: One or two newsletters have recently written that there is plenty of silver around. What do you have to say about that? Butler: There always seems to be someone saying that. But, when you look for data or hard evidence supporting such claims, none are forthcoming. Cook: The facts dont support it? Butler: No, not at all. Cook: Well, what facts support that there is a shortage? Butler: On the retail side, supply is very tight, delays are common and premiums are high. Thats the definition of a shortage. And this is the first time we have ever seen these retail conditions in silver. Its kind of funny. Cook: Whats funny? Butler: Well, I remember everyone predicting a few years back that if silver ever got to $10, there would be a big discount in retail silver items like there was in 1980. Cook: Why do you think it has turned out to be so different this time? Butler: Theres a lot less silver now than there was in 1980. Cook: What about the wholesale side of the market? Any shortages there? Butler: I think so, but its harder to tell. The retail side is very transparent because there are thousands of investors and dealers. So you can see clearly what is happening. Not so on the wholesale side. Theres only a handful of big dealers and relatively few big producers and consumers. The wholesale side is non-transparent. Cook: So, you cant see if a wholesale shortage exists? Butler: It makes it harder to see the real situation. You cant call up the big dealers or consumers and ask them if things are tight. Theyre not going to tell you. Cook: Then, how can you say theres a shortage? Butler: The retail market is tight as a drum for the first time in history, and because we dont see overtly visible signs of shortage in the wholesale market, everyone assumes theres plenty of silver available. Thats illogical. Cook: Do you have any factual evidence of tightness in wholesale? Butler: Sure. Metal flowing into the ETFs and the Central Fund of Canada still seem slow as molasses. COMEX warehouse stocks seem tighter and shrinking. And more and more retail investors are turning to 1000-oz. bars, since they offer the smallest premiums. Cook: Despite these facts, the price came down. Are you taking any heat? Butler: If youre talking about hate mail and the sort, very little, which is somewhat surprising. Especially considering how far prices came down. Cook: Why do you think people arent angry with you? Butler: I think I have done a decent job at explaining why we came down so hard. This has been an educational process for us all, and with growing knowledge comes the comfort in holding silver for the long run. Cook: So, youre still as bullish as ever? Butler: Absolutely. I know some might say Im always bullish and, to a certain extent, that is true. Its because for a long time we have had such a long way to go in price. These sharply lower prices should make one more bullish, as long as the fundamentals havent turned bearish. Cook: And you dont think conditions have turned negative? Butler: Far from it. In addition to the new low and attractive price, conditions in silver have actually gotten much more positive. Cook: What conditions? Butler: Less silver available for purchase, less potential new mine supply thats offsetting any decline in industrial demand, and the potential for major new investment demand in our bailout crazy and money-printing world. Cook: What about the 300 million ounces in the various ETFs? Isnt that available supply? Butler: Just because we can now see the silver that was transferred into the ETF doesnt mean its available. Cook: Isnt it available at a price? Butler: Perhaps, but at what price? Do your clients indicate that they will sell at current prices? Cook: Not at all. Butler: Theres your answer  very little, or none, at current prices, maybe some at much higher prices. Cook: Do you still like silver better than gold in todays financial environment? Butler: More than ever. This recent widening in the gold/silver ratio is looney tunes. People should take advantage of it. Thats not because I think gold wont go a lot higher, because I think it will. Its just that silver is going to shock people when it gets rolling to the upside. Cook: A number of gold bugs cant say anything good about silver. How do you explain that? Butler: Gold is an emotional subject. Its hard for many people to be objective about it. You either believe in it or not. Cook: What does that mean? Butler: I think theres a primal desire among many to hold an asset outside the dictates of government. I understand and agree with that desire. Gold is the most popular asset that satisfies that desire and belief. Cook: So, you think there may be a fanatical belief in gold? Butler: I didnt say that. Its just that gold is less about its specific supply and demand, and more about external factors. All I tried to do is make the case why silver may be a better alternative to gold. Cook: Whats your take on the current financial predicament? Youve never talked much about a bad economy. Arent todays economic problems a powerful argument for owning silver? Butler: For sure. Were in uncharted waters. Were seeing financial developments none of us have ever experienced. In times like these, you naturally look for something safe and solid that can be relied on. With the new low price, silver has low-risk and high-profit potential written all over it. Cook: Do you still think there&amp;#039;s more gold around than silver? Butler: Its surprising you would even ask me that. I wrote that in the very first article for you 8 years ago and countless times since then.. Have you ever seen any credible evidence in that time that wasnt true? Cook: Hey, nobody else has ever suggested it. Youre talking about above-ground silver? Butler: Im talking about material in real world terms - investable bullion and bullion equivalent Cook: If thats true, how can the price differential between gold and silver be so great? Butler: Its a world pricing miscalculation, brought about by a long-term manipulation and the human tendency to assume that the current price is always correct. Cook: It sounds like a it could be a great opportunity. Is it really that good? Butler: Ive certainly tried to ma...
