       Well IDG are ex-div in 10 days so we should know soon...  Standard and Poors dowbgrades 12 banks this AM, heard on BNN,  No ING in the list... That's at least constructive... for now :O)    http://www.citywire.co.uk/personal/-/news/markets-companies-and-funds/content.aspx?ID=324511   S&amp;amp;P downgrades raft of banks  By Deborah Hyde   11:33:50   19 December 2008  Barclays Bank, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland are among 12 banks that have been either downgraded or been put on negative credit watch by credit ratings agency Standard and Poor's.  Also on the list are: Bank of America, Citibank, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, and UBS and Wells Fargo.  Meanwhile, Merrill Lynch has cut its price targets across the board as it believes the recession will be much worse than the broker had originally feared.  Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Ratings Services lowered its ratings on 11 institutions by one notch or two notches to reflect its view of the significant pressure on large complex financial institutions' future performance due to increasing bank industry risk and the deepening global economic slowdown.  It did say however that government intervention intended to stabilize the sector and restore public confidence may balance these pressures to a large extent.  S&amp;amp;P has raised its overall assessment of bank industry risk and said there will be more volatility in funding markets.  The more cautious view of the sector reflects its view that credit is deteriorating, the need for banks to rebalance their funding profiles, and macroeconomic weakness, among other factors.  It is also incorporating more sensitivity into its rating analysis for reliance on short-term wholesale funding and for relative confidence sensitivity of financial institutions' business models.  And Merrill Lynch analyst Manus Costello said he is cutting his estimates for the UK banks, alongside a slew of downgrades in Europe, saying Merrill Lynch now believes provisions for bad debts will likely peak in 2010, not 2009 as previously forecast.  He now also sees higher provisions than previously forecast and expects provisions to be 191 basis points higher than at their peak in the nineties.  The new forecasts also reflect his view that banks will reduce their lending in both 2009 and 2010.  Costellos preferred play in the UK remains RBS - rated 'buy' - even though he has cut his price target to 88p from 93p.  He has a 'neutral' stance on Barclays and Standard Chartered and an 'underperform' view on HSBC.  He prefers Standard Chartered over HSBC, although he thinks neither valuation is attractive.  He cut his target on Barclays to 174p from 204p, on HSBC to 628p from 695p but edged his target for Standard Chartered up to 779p from 766p.  
