I HOPE HE WAS HEAVILY INVESTED WITH MADOFF.  A WHOLE LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE BEEN BAMBOOZLED BECAUSE THE GOVT. AGENCIES DIDN'T DO THEIR JOB IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION:  Madoff bad omen for fund of hedge funds industry  By Martin de Sa'Pinto and James Molony  ZURICH/LONDON (Reuters) - Bernard Madoff's alleged $50 billion fraud is another nail in the coffin of funds of hedge funds already struggling to convince investors they should stomach double fees.  The failure of several funds to act on red flags in Madoff's New-York based operations have raised concerns over their abilities to select the best hedge funds for clients, which is the core of their product offering.  MORE:&amp;nbsp;  http://www.reuters.com/article/hedgeFundsNews/idUSLNE4BG05J20081217   The Problem with Hedge Funds Published:&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; October 6, 2003 Author:&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; D. Quinn Mills  Most investors got badly burned in the Internet and telecom bubbles. Those who have money left, or who have new savings coming in and are seeking investments have heard that hedge funds have done well.  Sensing this demand, which is what they do best, investment banks are now creating funds, which then are invested in other funds. This is the big new thing, the fund of funds. People who managed funds during the Internet and telecom bubblenow emerge as managers in hedge funds to entice investors to entrust their money to one of the big investment banks or brokeragesCitibank, Chase, Merrill Lynch, or Bear Sternswhich then invests it for them in hedge funds.  The likelihood is that if the investments are laundered, so to speak, through a big bank that pretends to impose some prudence in management on the hedge funds in which investors' money ends up, then until another collapse, funds of funds will be considered suitable investments.  The bank pretends to place a cordon of safety, of conservative investing, around its investors' funds, but in reality it simply transfers them to a hedge fund for management.  Again, salespeople for the banks and brokerages are telling investors that they have a safe haven for investments at high returns and are placing investors' money in extremely speculative investment vehicles.  With hedge funds money is going to be made, and lost, in arcane positions trading with or against the market, in so complex a fashion that not even the fund managers will know exactly what caused an investment to be a success or a failure.  The increasing number of small investors who have entered the market now face the hedge funds, the big, new sophisticated players in the investment world into which not only wealthy individuals but large pension funds and endowments have poured money. It's a setup for a small investor to get killed.  Hedge funds, like venture funds, do not reveal performance. But they should be required to do so.  The market is made much more volatile; there are spikes of trading on any news.  The funds are regulated little and do not report their activities, trades, and balances. The smaller investor cannot play this game successfully. They follow a herd mentality, as do most fund managers of any sort. When they all go long, the market riseswhen they all go short, it falls.  Hedge funds began in 1949, then in the late 1990s became major drivers of the market.  Hedge funds are now becoming respectable investments for pension funds. Major colleges and universities have 20 to 30 percent of their endowments in hedge funds. Yet this is an industry about which Institutional Investor writes, "Secretive and far from pristine, the industry [hedge funds] has long been notorious for providing scant information (if any at all) and for suspect fundraising practices."  There is thus no justification for the enormous growth of the hedge funds simply the latest of the securities industry's new sales gimmick.  They should be required to report activities and positions to regulatory authorities frequently so that the regulators know what is going on. We need a study as to the impact of the funds to see what, if any, new regulations are required. Short selling is always speculation, not investment. The growth of hedge funds thereby injects a much larger speculative element into the market. This makes the market much more dangerous for investors who are trying to finance pensions and retirements, college tuition.  There is little known about the funds because by and large they do not yet report to regulators.  MORE:&amp;nbsp;  http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/3698.html    
