    Ms Know it all wrote:     First off idiots Rome was not built over night. YOUR STUPID REPUBLICAN BUSH did this to our economy and he has no magic wand that can pull us out of what our cheating to get into office Pres. Bush did to America. We were the laughing stock all over the world for eight years now you bashing Obama because he's telling your dumb ass its going to take time to get back on our feet. Thats common sense its the same as a relationship so I guess you meet a woman or male and decide you're marrying him the next day and Happy every after what the hell ever dummies. Give him a chance to get into office. We have American soldiers dying everyday because Bush wanted to finish his fathers old business and 9/11 was set up by the Gov't so can you trust the Government fuck no did you see AVP2 lol Stop hating because the man is mixed race and accept him for what he will do for our Country in due time DAMN!!!!!!!!!     Well said!  US and its allied force war with Iraq and Afghanistan. Super power US used its influence in haste action to declare Iraq making weapons of mass destruction.   US and others allied forces which were to get some billions of contractual orders saw their plans nosedive with fiscal spending mounting on high scale with no returns!!!   US and EU were caught in fiscal fix when blue chip Dow Jones industrial average suffered worst loss since Sept 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and plummeted more than 500 points.  Financial markets across the world were rattled by the sale of Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers Holding declaring bankruptcy and subsequent decision taken by the government against bailing out the failing financial institutions.   Adding to the turmoil was insurance giant American International Group (AIG) trying to arrange bridge loan of 40 billion dollar to tide over the difficult period and approaching the Federal government and the New York State. Asian market and Euro stock market felt its effect and world stock market tumbled with bears hammering the blue chips with ease.   Housing market remained sluggish and most of the unsold houses made the mortgage market plung thus the fiscal institutions investors had tough time.However the oil price receding may give some confidence to the stock markets but will take months to recover.  Elections in US,UK will keep the business at low ebb and Indo US nuke deal is silver linning in hour of global recession,likely to be through by US congress in converging session.   As the recession progress and cut in employment is on rise the demand of oil be recede and the price of crude oil must touch the bottom to level of 50 dollar a barrel and then only we can see the light for the global fiscal crunch to heal up slowly and gradually. Fuelled oil rice rise Parabolic rise in oil price is ploy of speculators who wants to reach the price to such an height that its consumption decreases, allow the artifical bubble to burst. With this unprecedent rise in oil price has shattered global economy and the inflation reins in the world.  Fast track moving economies of China,India and South korea will find itself in slow pace.China's cheap labour, the manufacturing hub of the world is being eroded. Countries look for alternate source of oil.   US and Europe too faces uphill task as inflation has slowed down the economy.   All thanks to Bush and Republican 8 stupid years.
