Why does each of us still have a job is more relevant.  I don't care so much about some remote CEO as I do about myself.    Quote:   Bank of America Corp said on Thursday it plans to eliminate 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over three years. . .The cuts could affect as much as 11.4 percent of the combined companies' workforce. . .   Financial companies have announced more than 250,000 job cuts this year. . .   Bank of America announced its cuts less than four weeks after Citigroup Inc set plans to eliminate 52,000 jobs, or 15 percent of its workforce, by early 2009. . .  more cuts may be needed to make Bank of America more competitive.  Eventual losses may be &amp;quot;substantially higher&amp;quot; than 35,000, with many coming from the middle ranks    http://www.reuters.com/article/newsOne/ ... ZD20081212      Quote:   The &amp;quot;nasty&amp;quot; U.S. recession will tighten its grip next year as unemployment rises and weak home and stock prices imperil consumers, finance firms and debt-laden businesses, a UCLA Anderson Forecast report released on Thursday said. . .  &amp;quot;The news from the economy is bad,&amp;quot; the report said. &amp;quot;The recession that we had previously hoped to avoid is now with us in full gale force.&amp;quot;  The UCLA Anderson Forecast unit expects real GDP to shrink by 4.1 percent this quarter and by another 3.4 percent and 0.8 percent in the first and second quarters of next year, respectively, as consumer and business spending weaken and as the foreign trade that had propped up growth much of this year sags. . .  By late 2009 the U.S. unemployment rate will hit 8.5 percent, compared with 6.7 percent in November, as employers shed an additional two million jobs over the next year.  The historical long-term trend of 3 percent growth will not resume until 2010    http://www.reuters.com/article/newsOne/ ... OG20081211     So, no sense getting pissed off at ones Management for cost-cutting measures.  They have no choice.  Instead, better to focus on making oneself indispensible in the company for once the heads start to roll; and in the meantime, when mandatory days off start being implemented, use the spare time to take classes, publish articles, or do whatever one can to improve ones skills and enhance ones resume, or at least enjoy the time off and accept it as just part of today's world.
