       US bank shares plunge after Dimon warning  By Francesco Guerrera, Saskia Scholtes and Greg Farrell in New York  Published: December 11 2008 23:11   Last updated: December 12 2008 00:26  Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chases chief executive, prompted a sharp fall in financial shares on Thursday with a warning that his bank was having a tough fourth quarter after a terrible November and December.  Hours after Mr Dimons comments, Bank of America underscored the problems gripping the sector with the announcement of up to 35,000 job cuts after its planned takeover of Merrill Lynch. BofA said the redundancies, which equate to around 11 per cent of the two companies workforce, would take place during the next three years.  Mr Dimon, whose bank has navigated the turmoil better than most rivals, told CNBC that the sharp economic slowdown and rising unemployment were increasing the strains on US consumers and companies.  He said that November and December had been terrible months for JPMorgan, contributing to a difficult quarter, adding that the company was prepared to face a similarly tough environment in 2009.  Its all going to be unemployment-driven, he said. Unemployment will drive commercial losses, real estate losses, all consumer products losses.  Asked whether he saw any end in sight for the macro-economic troubles afflicting the US, he said: If we are lucky, we will have two more quarters of this and we will start to see a recovery...Its possible its going to get worse and were in for a tougher time.  Mr Dimons warning triggered a bout of selling in banks shares with investors focusing on lenders with large exposure to US consumers. JPMorgan ended the day as the worst performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, falling 10.7 per cent to $29.94. The shares were trading at about $32 when Mr Dimon began talking.  BofA was also down 10.7 per cent but it recovered some ground in after-hours trading as investors welcomed news of the job cuts.  The redundancies are part of BofA plans to cut $7bn in costs by 2012 and are expected to exact an heavy toll on Merrills investment banking unit.  Citigroup fell nearly 9 per cent to $7.57. The falls in JPMorgan, BofA and Citi accounted for nearly a quarter of the 196-point, 2.24 per cent slide in the Dow.  Mr Dimon declined to give a specific answer on whether he would forego his annual bonus but said he had told the board of his intentions and trusted them to do the right thing.  As the head of one of the more successful banks this year, Mr Dimon, who earned a bonus of $14.5m and total compensation of $29m last year, could be entitled to a bonus under JPMorgans pay-for-performance scheme. However, Wall Street chiefs have been under huge pressure from politicians and unions to give up their bonuses as the country buckles under the weight of the financial crisis.  
