NYSE Options Closer To Intl Securities Exchange Last update: 12/24/2008 10:02:27 AM By Geoffrey Rogow Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The floor of the New York Stock Exchange is undergoing a massive transformation that will not only add more people to the floor for the first time in years, but also give it far greater market share in an area that has been skyrocketing - options. While trading volumes at the NYSE have never been higher, especially during the worst months of the 2008 market swoon, personnel on the floor has been shrinking for the greater part of the last decade. Roughly five years ago, there were about 3,000 traders and staff on the floor, a figure that had been reduced to 1,200 to start 2008. But in the past month, 70 traders have joined the equities trading operation of the NYSE from the recently purchased American Stock Exchange, with more than 300 options traders moving into a newly redesigned and state-of-the-art trading room in the "blue room" and extended "blue room" of the NYSE on Feb. 9. With the surge of personnel and trades, the NYSE and Amex will immediately move from the fourth- and fifth-largest options volume exchanges into the Top 3, and closer to the Chicago Board Options Exchange and Intercontinental Exchange than they have ever been. "It's interesting to see the evolution of the last four years. Dark pools and algo trading were the products of choice in the period of historic low volatility. Now that we have extraordinarily high volatility, you're seeing a big move toward the usage of options. This product is more important now than it's ever been," said Keith Bliss, a senior vice president with Cuttone &amp; Co., the largest independent floor operator at the NYSE. For traders on the floor, the incorporation of an options room is providing an opportunity to expand their expertise. Nearly a dozen floor traders interviewed said they planned to get licensed to become options traders, with several brokerage firms saying they would pick up the tab for this type of education. Moreover, such a drastic infusion of capital and personnel could be a boost to morale. Thousands of their peers have left in recent years, and the mood on the floor has shifted as the exchange has moved more into the electronic marketplace from a broker-centric platform. "It's about time they did something," said one floor trader. But at the crux of any decision made by an exchange is clients, whose biggest concern is getting the best returns they possibly can. Whether it's a hedge fund, pension fund or just one high net-worth client, options have become a must as investors seek more ways to hedge positions in stock portfolios. All told, the Options Clearing Corporation notes 3.37 billion options contracts changed hands in the first 11 months of 2008, compared with 2.87 billion in all of 2007 and 2.04 billion in 2006. In looking to take advantage of this surge, earlier this year, NYSE purchased the AMEX for $260 million in stock, in large part with the idea that they could "buy into" a bigger piece of the options pie. While the exchange wouldn't disclose exactly how much it cost to upgrade technology and the facilities, on a late October conference call the exchange forecast the integration of Amex into its floor operations would fuel run rate savings of $120 million and add to earnings by the end of next year. "The Amex already had a very strong and dedicated floor broker and floor community, which was certainly part of the value in the transaction," said Ed Boyle, senior vice president and director of the options market for NYSE. Charged with combining the current Amex model with that of the NYSE's electronic Arca options platform and San Francisco options trading operations were Boyle for the NYSE and Jim Hyde, a former vice president with Amex, now with NYSE. Whether it was initial concerns about power supply for a new room, or how to limit traders from moving seamlessly around the different options and equities rooms, Hyde and Boyle were in on every decision. As they spoke with traders from NYSE-centric firms like Cuttone, or bulge bracket firms like Goldman Sachs and Bank of America, the central issue was that everyone wanted to create a "one-stop shop." While traders won't be permitted to move room to room without changing their handsets, firms will be able to more easily trade options and equities for their clients from a single, larger floor. While a series of doors will separate the main room and other parts of the exchange from the new options rooms, data and communication avenues will remain open between options and equities groups, with firms allowed to have brokers that can operate in both rooms during the day. Both sides, equities and options, will maintain the same open outcry method that has been at the forefront of NYSE activity for more than a hundred years, on top of electronic trading. Moreover, all trade processing will be routed through the NYSE's proprietary safety network, SFTI, a dramatic shift for Amex. "The value that NYSE brings to Amex is technology and enhanced order flow will be the result of all this," said Hyde. Steve Hirsch, chief data officer for NYSE, said the speed of execution is the competitive advantage traders should see after Feb. 9. Both NYSE options and Amex are upgrading their technology as part of the deal, which is done by leveraging the assets of prior acquisitions such as Archipelago Exchange and Wombat Financial Software, which are now under the umbrella of NYSE Euronext. At the same time execution speed is growing, so is message volume. While an order may or may not execute, orders can still move stock and options quotes with any incoming order becoming a "message." In the case of messages, volume is growing at nearly 60% a year. To that end, NYSE hired data infrastructure company Greenplum just this month to process the high volumes of data produced by the NYSE Euronext exchanges on a daily basis, including in options. From an options standpoint, Hirsch said most of the technology was simply leveraged from NYSE Arca, which will continue to maintain a floor operation in San Francisco, and enhanced from the Amex's current floor model, with clients able to expect the same speed and execution of Arca. And should the options push prove fruitful, NYSE doesn't expect to stop acquiring. "We want to expand in Europe with derivatives and other type of equities," said Eric Ryan, a spokesman for the exchange. -By Geoffrey Rogow, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5360; geoffrey.rogow@dowjones.com The New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange will move from the fourth- and fifth-largest options volume exchanges into the Top 3, and closer to the Chicago Board Options Exchange and International Securities Exchange than they've ever been on Feb. 9. (The story, "After Years Of Shrinking, NYSE Floor To Get Shot In Arm" published at 9 a.m. ET incorrectly listed the Intercontinental Exchange as a large options exchange.) (END) Dow Jones NewswiresDecember 24, 2008 10:02 ET (15:02 GMT)
