Don't leave Sageman!     &amp;quot;may all shorters be personally visited by those persons that they have helped make unemployed.&amp;quot;    Shorters are a very important part of any efficient market and the worls would be a much worse place without them. They get a very bad press but if people who thought prices were too high were not able to participate in the market then only thoes who thought they were too low would. Ergo super buble.     Although I do think exchanges/regulators should be much faster to intereven in disorderly markets. Asset prices should not change by 40% per day and if they are there is not an orderly market therefore trading should be suspended/limited (shorting banned-which happened just weeks late for poor old HBOS... that said shorters did very little damage, it was people who owned selling off that really hurt the sp in thsi case; just look at level of HBOS on loan for that period).    Anyway I use Hargreaves Lansdown for my SIPP, Internaxx for day-to-day trading and citibank deal with my funds etc. All expensive but reliable and excellent customer services.    Index Linked gilts I dislike on principle- i.e. it's taking a position on the overall market (or even economy) and at this stgae in my trading I'd think there are bigger returns to be found in individual companies. Although aggregate prices are so low you're bound to see a significant return anyway.    Corporate bonds are also silly cheap. I have bought a lots of junk bonds of late but it's more like gambling and not in any significant volume. The point is everything is looking cheap and it's looking for the best (biggest OR risk weighted) return that's difficult.    My current strategy:    Invest grade corporates 5%  Gilts 3%  T-Bills 10%  Small cap uk 17%  Large cap uk 5%  Asian Equities 10%  US Equities 10%  Junk bonds 3%  Private equity 25%  Currency/Commodities 12%    I've also got various hedges to reduce my exposure to certain currency moves and to protect against further collapses, so those figures are approximates using capital exposure rather than current positions.          
