SYDNEY, Oct 3 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar was weak near 14-month lows against the U.S. currency and three-year troughs against the yen on Friday, hurt by mounting risk aversion, a slump in commodities and the prospect of a big interest rate cut.    * Apathy towards riskier assets deepened amid concerns about a global economic slowdown, stoked by more weak U.S. data, and the fate of the U.S. government&amp;#039;s $700 billion rescue plan for the battered financial sector.    * Wall Street stocks were lower, prompting investors to bail out of risky leveraged carry trades. The Aussie was at 81.26 yen on Friday, having slid to its lowest in over three years against the yen, falling to 80.97 yen offshore.    * By 9:30 a.m. the Aussie had fallen to $0.7725, trading just above a 14-month low of $0.7698 struck offshore, and weaker than $0.7875 late here on Thursday.    * It has lost nearly 8 percent this week on heightened risk aversion and expectations that tight credit conditions will force the central bank to cut rates by a hefty 50 basis points next week. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) decides on monetary policy on Oct. 6.    * The European Central Bank also signalled it may cut rates for the first time in five years. It left rates unchanged at 4.25 percent on Thursday but highlighted the risks to the European economy from the credit crunch.    * Adding to the Aussie&amp;#039;s woes were falling commodity prices. The CRB index, dived 4.3 percent to its lowest point in a year as investors worried about a slowing global economy, dumped natural resources.    * Australia is a big exporter of commodities and posted its biggest monthly trade surplus in over a decade in August.    * A private sector gauge of Australian inflation is out at 10:30 a.m. (0030 GMT). Although inflation has been sticky around 16-year highs, the central bank has shifted its focus onto tight credit conditions and the adverse impact on consumer demand.    * Australian bond futures were firmer, buoyed by safe-haven inflows and hopes that the central bank will embark on an easy monetary policy bias in the coming months.    * Three-year Australian bond futures rose by 0.05 points to 95.025, while the 10-year bond contract added 0.025 points to 94.67.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
