SYDNEY, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar held on to modest offshore gains on Tuesday, helped by an easing in global risk aversion, while investors awaited clues on monetary policy when the central bank chief speaks later in the day.    * Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Glenn Stevens gives a speech on the economy at 1:10 p.m. (0210 GMT). His speech assumes more importance as speculation has mounted in the past few days that the central bank may not cut rates as aggressively as many expected in the coming months.    * That speculation was triggered after an influential columnist wrote at the weekend and again on Tuesday that last week&amp;#039;s A$10.4 billion ($7.3 billion) government stimulus plan and a weaker Aussie dollar had lessened the need for further steep cuts in official rates.    * December bill futures extended losses, falling 0.19 points to 94.980 on Tuesday, as investors repriced chances of a near-term rate cut.    * Investors are pricing in a 50 basis point cut by the RBA at its next monetary policy board meeting on Nov. 4. Until late last week, the market was factoring in 75 basis points of cuts with some expecting a cut before Nov. 4.    * By 9:25 a.m., the Aussie had crept up to $0.7028 against the U.S. dollar from $0.7000 late here on Monday, helped by an improvement in risk appetite and easing interbank lending rates after governments and central banks added billions of dollars to thaw frozen credit markets.    * U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said he was encouraged by the nascent improvement in credit conditions. He also told a congressional panel that a second stimulus may be needed to shore up the flagging U.S. economy.    * Reflecting better appetite for higher-yielding currencies, the Aussie inched up to 71.68 yen from 71.48 yen late here on Monday.    * The RBA also releases the minutes of its October policy meeting on Thursday, the meeting at which it cut the cash rate by an unexpected 100 basis points.    * Australian bond futures lost ground, with the shorter end hit more by the tempering of rate-cut expectations. Three-year Australian bond futures fell 0.115 points to 95.320, while the 10-year bond contract eased by 0.01 points to 94.70.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Jonathan Standing)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
