LONDON, Oct 24 (Reuters) - Sterling tumbled on Friday, hitting record lows against the euro and six-year lows against the dollar after data showed the UK economy contracted in the third quarter.    Repatriation flows and carry trade unwinds bolstered the dollar and the yen, while high-yielding currencies such as the pound were pummelled as European shares slumped by nearly 9 percent.    The sharp selling of sterling intensified after figures earlier Friday showed the UK economy contracted by 0.5 percent quarter-on-quarter in the three months to September, the first fall in GDP in 16 years. See.    The euro hit a record high against the pound of 81.95 pence, according to Reuters data. Sterling fell to a six-year low against the dollar of $1.5270, while on a trade-weighted basis it dropped to a 12-year low of 85.3.    By 1428 GMT, the pound had recovered slightly against the dollar, but was still down 3.7 percent at $1.5727. The euro was up 1.2 percent at 80.62 pence.    Against the yen, sterling dived as far as 139.12 yen, its weakest since 1995.    &amp;#039;This is the next leg of the risk bucket being kicked over,&amp;#039; CBA strategist Divyang Shah said, adding that liquidity was thin, resulting in volatile trade.    &amp;#039;Cable has come back a little but the (weak) trend is still there,&amp;#039; he said.    Sterling has dropped more than 9 percent in the past five days and was set to clock its biggest weekly fall since the UK currency crashed out of the ERM in 1992.    News that the UK economy contracted in July-September sparked fears of a prolonged recession and markets are forecasting the Bank of England will be forced to cut interest rates sharply.    &amp;#039;Today&amp;#039;s report was truly dire ... The Monetary Policy Committee has little choice but to continue to cut rates aggressively,&amp;#039; Investec economist Philip Shaw said in a note to clients.    BoE deputy governor Charles Bean said on Friday Britain&amp;#039;s economy was still in the early days of a slowdown and that this could be the largest financial crisis of its kind in history. See.    (Reporting by Jessica Mortimer, editing by Mike Peacock) Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/CLOSE    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
