WELLINGTON, Oct 8 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar remained under pressure on Wednesday as global economic uncertainty weighed down on equity markets and eroded risk appetite, but it held above two-year lows.    The kiwi, which rallied late on Tuesday after the Reserve Bank of Australia&amp;#039;s surprise 1 percent interest rate cut, stumbled as analysts predicted the move could also herald more aggressive easing from New Zealand&amp;#039;s central bank.    The Reserve Bank of NZ&amp;#039;s next policy meeting is on Oct. 23, with its 7.5 percent benchmark rate seen certain to fall.    &amp;#039;We see it as a tight call between 75 basis points and 100 basis points,&amp;#039; ASB Bank chief economist Nick Tuffley said in a note to clients.    In normal times, the prospect of lower yields would hurt the kiwi, though given the global market turmoil investors might look more favourably on a big rate cut to shore up an economy already in recession.    At 0415 GMT the kiwi was at $0.6242/52 compared with $0.6383/93 in late local trade on Tuesday. It touched a two-year low of $0.6170 in late local trade on Monday.    On the cross rates, the kiwi was steady above a five-and-a-half year low against the yen and fell away from ten-month highs against the Aussie.    New Zealand&amp;#039;s main opposition National Party unveiled its proposals for cutting personal taxes if it wins the Nov. 8 general election, promising larger cuts sooner than the Labour-led government.    With the economic picture deteriorating fast, National&amp;#039;s proposed tax cuts should not stand in the way of the central bank&amp;#039;s plan to reduce interest rates, UBS senior economist Robin Clements said.    &amp;#039;Given the likely weak state of the economy in 2009, this fiscal stimulus is unlikely to cause the RBNZ any concerns,&amp;#039; Clements said in a note to clients.    The U.S. dollar gained slightly against the euro but fell against the yen as the Japanese currency attracted safe-haven buying.    NZ bonds gained, benefiting from safe-haven inflows amid the ongoing financial market turmoil and as investors continued to factor in a big rate cut later this month.    The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond closed at 5.68, down 10 basis points from the previous session at 5.78 percent.    (Reporting by Adrian Bathgate; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
