LONDON, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Sterling hit a six-month high against a broadly weak euro on Friday, a day after dovish comments from the European Central Bank sparked speculation that it would cut euro zone interest rates sooner rather than later.    The pound firmed slightly against the dollar, although its outlook remains weak with financial market turmoil and sharply slowing British economic growth raising pressure on the Bank of England to cut UK rates from 5.0 percent.    A survey on Friday revealed Britain&amp;#039;s services sector contracted at the fastest rate in at least 12 years in September, while Bank of England dove David Blanchflower again pressed for UK rate cuts.    Sterling gained ground against the euro after ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said on Thursday that inflation risks had eased as financial market turbulence hit the euro zone economy, and that the Governing Council had discussed a rate cut.    Those comments pounded the euro and opened the door for the ECB&amp;#039;s first cut in five years.    &amp;#039;The mometum is against the euro at the minute. The euro area economy is weakening. Trichet&amp;#039;s comments yesterday suggest they&amp;#039;re going to cut interest rates more quickly that previously thought,&amp;#039; said Paul Robinson, chief sterling strategist at Barclays Capital.    By 1422 GMT, the euro had fallen 0.9 percent on the day to 77.62 pence, a level last seen in late March.    Against the dollar, the pound was higher at $1.7744, off a three-week low of $1.7549 set on Thursday.    The dollar was generally supported as banks and financial institutions, shut out of frozen interbank money markets, scramble for the greenback in the forex market and as the U.S. House of Representatives prepares to vote on a $700 billion bank financial sector bailout plan.    It was further underpinned by data showing U.S. unemployment rate held steady at 6.1 percent in September even as employers cut an unexpectedly large 159,000 jobs that month.    (Reporting by Ian Chua; Editing by David Stamp) Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/CLOSE    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
