SYDNEY, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar inched up from fresh two-week lows against the U.S. dollar on Thursday, but gains were slight amid expectations of an aggressive interest rate cut next week and mounting risk aversion.    * Sentiment was also cautious ahead of a U.S. Senate vote on the $700 billion rescue deal for the battered U.S. financial sector.    * By 9:20 a.m., the Aussie was at $0.7915 against the U.S. dollar, down from $0.7973 late here on Wednesday, and off a two-week low of $0.7857 struck offshore.    * Against the yen, the Aussie fell to 83.93 yen, from 84.44 yen late here on Wednesday as lower stock markets on Wall Street undermined demand for risky leveraged carry trades.    * Adding to the Aussie&amp;#039;s woes were lower commodities. The CRB index fell 0.65 percent on Wednesday with commodities sold off on mounting concerns that the global credit crisis will dampen demand. Australia is a big exporter of natural resources.    * Expectations that tight credit conditions will hurt consumer demand further and weigh down on the domestic economy has seen investors price in a 50 basis point rate cut by the central bank next week. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) decides on monetary policy on Oct. 6.    * Domestic trade data for August will be released on Thursday and a Reuters poll showed market forecasts centred on a surplus of A$300 million, seasonally adjusted.    * Australian bond futures were volatile ahead of the Senate vote. But they were supported with investors convinced about a rate cut early next week.    * Three-year Australian bond futures shed 0.015 points to 94.875, while the 10-year bond contract also lost 0.015 points to 94.56.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
