TOKYO, Oct 7 (Reuters) - The yen edged down against other major currencies on Tuesday as investors looked to see if major central banks would launch a coordinated response to the deepening credit crisis, including interest rate cuts.    The yen edged off a three-year high against the euro and a five-year peak versus the Australian dollar as speculators booked profits, believing the panic selling of those currencies the previous day had gone too far. Worries that the financial crisis is spreading from the United States to the rest of the world and pushing the global economy into a recession sparked a sharp stock sell-off on Monday as investors rushed to safe havens such as gold, government bonds and the yen.    The dollar posted its biggest one-day slide since the massive 1998 unwind of carry trades. The high-yielding Aussie, long a favourite in the carry trade, collapsed nearly 11 percent -- the biggest drop since the Aussie was allowed to trade freely in 1983.    But on Tuesday, market players hesitated to chase the yen further, thinking global financial authorities are likely to take further measures to help restore confidence in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression of the 1930s.    &amp;#039;Investors believe global central banks could do anything,&amp;#039; said Tsutomu Soma, senior manager of foreign assets at Okasan Securities.    &amp;#039;The next step could be coordinated interest rate cuts, interventions in the foreign exchange market or more fund injections into money markets. Who knows,&amp;#039; Soma said.    The dollar climbed 0.3 percent from late U.S. trade to 102.11 yen, moving away from a six-month low of 100.22 yen hit on trading platform EBS the previous day.    The plunge in the Aussie and euro dragged the dollar down sharply as well into the sensitive zone for currency option dealers near 100 yen, triggering forced selling as they scrambled to keep their books hedged.    The euro was little changed at $1.3495, near a 13-month trough of $1.3444 on EBS on Monday after tumbling the previous day on the decision by leaders of Europe&amp;#039;s four biggest economies against a coordinated bailout plan.    The dollar is expected to draw support against major currencies except the yen as there are few signs of the freeze in money markets thawing. Banks have been forced to buy much-needed dollars to settle deals on the open market as interbank lending has dried up.    &amp;#039;Money market rates remain at painfully high levels, showing the fund shortage problem is still serious,&amp;#039; said a trader at a big Japanese bank. &amp;#039;People have little choice but to buy the dollar and the save-haven yen as long as the situation stays the same.&amp;#039;    Tokyo&amp;#039;s Nikkei average lost nearly 5 percent and sank below the psychologically important 10,000 level for the first time since December 2003 before later trimming losses. Equity markets around the world have been slammed.    The single European currency was up 0.7 percent at 137.74 yen .    The Australian dollar edged up 1.3 percent to 73.73 yen , rebounding from a five-year low of 70.27 yen hit on Monday. In the six trading days to Monday the Australian dollar plunged more than 16 percent against the yen.    Against the dollar, the Aussie edged up 0.3 percent to $0.7220    Market players awaited a policy decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia later in the day in which the central bank is expected to cut interest rates by an aggressive 50 basis points to 6.5 percent.    The Bank of Japan will also conclude a two-day policy meeting later in the day, and is widely seen leaving the overnight call rate unchanged at 0.5 percent.    (Editing by Michael Watson)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
