SYDNEY, Oct 27 (Reuters) - Australia&amp;#039;s central bank intervened for a second day on Monday to prop up the tumbling Australian dollar after investors hammered the currency to multi-year lows in the face of the global credit crisis.    The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) said the action was aimed at boosting liquidity in the market. It did not reveal how much it had spent buying the local currency on Friday and Monday, or at what level it intervened.    The last time the central bank intervened to shore up the currency was in August 2007, when the U.S. subprime mortgage meltdown first set the global credit crisis in motion.    &amp;#039;We did intervene for a while on Monday morning as the activity was similar to that on Friday,&amp;#039; a central bank spokesman said.    By 4.15 p.m. (0515 GMT), the Australian dollar was at $0.6115, not far from a five-and-a-half low of $0.6055 on Friday, and at 57.29 yen, up from Friday&amp;#039;s 55.11 on the yen -- its lowest level against the Japanese currency since it was first floated in 1983.    The currency, known as the Aussie, has fallen about 45 percent against the Japanese currency and 38 percent against the U.S. dollar since peaking three months ago.    The yen surged last week, hitting a 13 year high against the dollar and a six-year high against the euro as investors cut overseas investments funded in the currency and repatriated funds. At one point on Friday, the euro dropped more than 10 percent against the yen.    That culminated on Monday with a warning by the Group of Seven rich nations that the yen&amp;#039;s wild swings threatened financial stability, fanning speculation other central banks may intervene in the foreign exchange markets to halt the rally in the Japanese unit.    The Aussie has tumbled as investors unwound a five-year long boom in carry trades -- where investors borrowed in cheaper currencies like the yen and Swiss franc to buy high-yielding Australian assets like local government debt.    Until recently, Australian interest rates were among the highest in the developed world.    But earlier this month, the central bank cut rates by 100 basis points in one go, taking them to 6 percent and eroding some of the currency&amp;#039;s yield advantage.    The cut ushered in a globally coordinated series of rate cuts by major central banks hoping to bolster confidence in the world&amp;#039;s shattered financial markets.    More RBA rate cuts are expected next month and in December.    Some analysts said the central bank would continue to intervene.    &amp;#039;The RBA has a good history of providing liquidity during periods of erratic price movements in the Aussie dollar and I do not see the last action as more than that,&amp;#039; said Robert Rennie, chief currency strategist at Westpac.    BENEFITS    Falling commodity prices, amid fears of a global recession, have added to the Aussie&amp;#039;s woes, given that a large portion of the country&amp;#039;s foreign exchange earnings come from sales of raw materials like coal, iron ore and wheat.    However, Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the decline in the Australian dollar could bring some benefits to the economy, providing some relief to exporters and the tourism industry.    That would be a help as signs point to a slowdown in the economy, analysts said.    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s generally positive for companies because a lot of our exports are priced in U.S. dollars,&amp;#039; said Eric Betts, equities strategist, Nomura Australia.    &amp;#039;So it will offset some of the impact of the commodity price slump. It will also help the manufacturers because they compete with imports. It will also help inbound tourism.&amp;#039;    Exporters such as CSL Ltd, Foster&amp;#039;s Group Ltd  and Amcor Ltd could benefit when they convert overseas earnings into Aussie dollars.    That could provide an extra cushion for the economy on top of measures already announced by the government, including a stimulus package to help households and a guarantee to shield local bank deposits from the credit crisis.    The deposit guarantee, however, has thrown the savings industry into crisis as investors fled managed funds and foreign banks for the relative safety of domestic banks.    Some A$15 billion ($9.3 billion) in investor funds is now frozen, research firm Morningstar says.    On Monday, Colonial First State Global Asset Management, a division of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, became the latest to suspend withdrawals from some of its mortgage funds, which have assets of A$3.3 billion.    Perpetual, Axa Asia Pacific and Everest Babcock &amp;amp;amp; Brown, suspended redemptions in mortgage and income funds last week.    The fund management industry held talks with the government on Monday to discuss ways to stem the flow of cash out of the industry, though the government has ruled out extending the deposit guarantee to market-linked funds.    (Additional reporting by Denny Thomas, Sonali Paul, Mette Fraende and Victoria Thieberger)    (Editing by Jonathan Standing and Neil Fullick)    .    nt    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
