NEW YORK, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Stocks rose around the globe on Monday as efforts to shore up banks inspired investors to buy beaten-down shares and energy shares surged as oil rose on expectations that OPEC may act this week to boost prices.    U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke raised hopes for more spending to help the economy, helping push key Wall Street indexes up. European and Japanese stocks vaulted more than 3 percent higher.    The dollar extended gains versus the yen after Bernanke&amp;#039;s remarks.    Underpinning the new-found relief, lending rates between banks -- at the center of fears about the industry freezing up -- fell significantly. This suggested government efforts to provide support were finally bearing fruit.    &amp;#039;This is unmitigated good news. However, the rates need to drop much further,&amp;#039; said T.J. Marta, fixed income strategist at RBC Capital Markets in New York.    London interbank offered rates, closely watched as a benchmark for the cost of financing throughout the private sector, fell for overnight dollars to a four-year low.    Perhaps more significantly, the three-month rate recorded its biggest drop since the Fed delivered an emergency interest rate cut last January.    A continued easing of financing for short-term loans for three months will take the pressure off companies, which have had to scramble for overnight cash as banks became reluctant to lend during the recent paralysis of credit markets.    But unease over the economy continued to hang over some markets, and U.S. government debt prices rose after Bernanke&amp;#039;s gloomy economic outlook spurred a safe-haven bid for Treasuries.    On Wall Street the Dow industrials and S&amp;amp;amp;P 500 both rose more than 2 percent.    Dow components Exxon Mobil and Chevron led the index higher after analysts at Oppenheimer &amp;amp;amp; Co raised recommendations on the companies, as well as a raft of other energy companies.    The Dow Jones industrial average was up 183.91 points, or 2.08 percent, at 9,036.13. The Standard &amp;amp;amp; Poor&amp;#039;s 500 Index was up 21.78 points, or 2.32 percent, at 962.33. The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 18.87 points, or 1.10 percent, at 1,730.16.    The S&amp;amp;amp;P energy index jumped 6.77 percent, with shares of both Exxon and Chevron rising over 6 percent.    Shares of BlackBerry maker Research In Motion fell 8.9 percent on concerns about technology spending.    In Europe, oil and bank shares drove gains.    The FTSEurofirst 300 index closed up 3.27 percent.    Energy stocks were the top-weighted gainers on the FTSEurofirst 300, with BP and Royal Dutch Shell both soaring more than 10 percent and Total advancing 7.1 percent as crude prices rose.    Among banks, Royal Bank of Scotland added more than 23 percent, HSBC added 5.4 percent and Barclays put on more than 7 percent.    European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet added to the confidence-building over the weekend, pledging in a radio interview to do whatever it takes to restore confidence to financial markets.    He said the ECB was working very closely with the U.S. Federal Reserve to solve the financial crisis that has crippled equity markets for more than a year.    Also over the weekend, South Korea promised $130 billion in state guarantees and capital injections for banks, while the Dutch government said it would prop up financial group ING with around 10 billion euros ($13.52 billion).    Emerging market stocks as measured by MSCI gained 2.95 percent.    Japan&amp;#039;s Nikkei average climbed 3.6 percent.    In the government bond market, U.S. Treasuries kept a firm tone as investors bet Bernanke indicated the worst was not yet over for the economy, which is likely to lead to more interest rate cuts.    The benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note was up 8/32, with the yield at 3.9029 percent.    In Europe, benchmark bond futures were just a shade higher
