LONDON, Oct 23 (Reuters) - Sterling hit a five-year low against the dollar on Thursday, driven by broad buying of the U.S. currency and Japanese yen at the expense of higher-yielding currencies.    Rampant risk aversion has driven the dollar and yen up sharply, sending the pound down more than 7 percent against the U.S. currency this week and setting it on track for its biggest monthly percentage drop since Britain&amp;#039;s exit from the European Exchange rate mechanism in late 1992.    Falling global share prices and a sharp reversal in emerging market currencies strengthened momentum against high-yielding majors, including sterling, as investors fretted over the prospect of a prolonged global recession.    &amp;#039;Share prices are down but U.S. stocks were up a bit, so we are seeing risk aversion in a made-in-forex world,&amp;#039; said Robert Minikin, senior FX strategist at Standard Chartered.    At 1410 GMT, sterling was down one percent at $1.6101  having hit a five-year low of $1.6046, according to Reuters data.    The pound fell 1.7 percent to a eight-year low of 155.53 yen. The euro was up 0.7 percent at 79.46 pence.    Sterling was still smarting after Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said late on Tuesday that the British economy was probably entering its first recession in 16 years.    &amp;#039;The market is still incredibly nervous,&amp;#039; said Paul Robinson, chief sterling strategist at Barclays Capital. &amp;#039;The more risky things appear to be, the worse it is for sterling compared with the dollar and yen, and vice versa.&amp;#039;    RATE CUT EXPECTATIONS    Expectations for steep rate cuts from 4.5 percent in coming months will likely keep pressure on sterling, analysts said.    BoE policymaker Kate Barker said on Thursday that it could be months before businesses see any improvement in conditions as a result of the measures taken to combat the credit crisis.    Another Monetary Policy Committee member, Tim Besley, said recent softening in oil and commodity prices was extremely welcome for inflation targets. But he said he would not pre-judge any future rate decision.    A Reuters poll on Wednesday showed economists expect the BoE to cut interest rates by 50 basis points at its November meeting, and that rates would fall to 3.5 percent by March.    Market reaction to a smaller-than-expected drop in September retail sales figures was subdued. UK retail sales fell 0.4 percent in September from the previous month, pushing the annual growth rate down to its weakest in 2-1/2 years.    Focus will be on preliminary UK gross domestic product data due out on Friday, which is expected to show the British economy contracted in the third quarter by 0.2 percent from the three months to June, following zero growth in the previous quarter.    (Reporting by Tamawa Kadoya; Editing by Mike Peacock) Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/CLOSE    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
