         Last night the US Senate debated and passed a revised version of the government's US$700 billion financial bailout bill. The package had been sweetened with tax cuts for business and an increase in the insurance limits on bank deposits from $US100,000 to $US250,000. The front-running presidential candidates, Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain, both of whom are Senators, returned to Washington to speak in favour of the plan. Pictured above: Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, who supports the bail out, addresses reporters in Washington today.The House of Representatives voted down an earlier version of the bill on Monday, leading to the worst single-day stock sell-off since just after the 1987 market crash. Apparently unimpressed by the latest socialist remedy for the credit collapse, investors reacted negatively, driving the DJIA down by at least 348 points today. US Congressmen will be forced to consider the revised, Senate-approved bill as early as Friday. Today the International Monetary Fund released a report that does not provide an optimistic forecast for the world economy:Episodes of financial turmoil characterized by banking sector distress are more likely to be associated with severe and protracted downturns than episodes of stress centered mainly in securities or foreign exchange markets.Based on a comparison of the current episode of financial stress with previous episodes, there remains a substantial likelihood of a sharp downturn in the United States. The US economic downturn may well become more severe and could evolve into a recession.The evidence for the "euro area" meanwhile is more consistent with the pattern for a slowdown than a recession, and the dynamics also appear to be evolving with some lag.In cyberspace forums and Youtube.com are abuzz with rumors and "prophecies" of martial law imposed in the wake of a total economic failure and extended "bank holiday" should the bailout bill fail to secure another fair shake in the House of Representatives. The scenario is not entirely inconceivable and, indeed, the Communist Bloc could possibly seize the opportunity to launch a preemptive nuclear strike after a few more economic blows against America.In the European Union the French government applied pressure on British Prime Minister Gordon Brown last night by tendering an ambitious plan for a 300 billion (237 billion) bailout fund to rescue hobbled banks across Europe. French/European President Nicolas Sarkozy will host an emergency summit of EU leaders scheduled for Saturday, at which time he will propose the creation of an international emergency fund to prop up banks when national governments are unable to intervene.In this case Sarkozy's eagerness to support the banking industry are suspect since among his friends is Edouard de Rothschild, scion of the French branch of the Rothschild dynasty and "non-executive chairman" of the supervisory board at the Rothschild &amp;amp; Cie Banque. Today, across the English Channel, Sir Evelyn de Rothschild, prince of the British branch of the dynasty, piously intoned: "There has been a collapse in ethical standards among banks in recent years, which has been ignored by watchdogs, rating agencies, shareholders and accountants. We should not be under any illusion in this country that subprime is only an American problem."Meanwhile, in Latin America, which is dominated by leftist and communist regimes in alliance with Russia and China, the credit crunch will by next year drag the region's booming economy to a standstill, a development that will only facilitate the Red Axis leaders' ability to consolidate their political gains."The last four or five years were very good for Latin America, but that cycle is coming to an end,'' commented Rodrigo Valdes, chief Latin America economist at Barclays Capital in New York: "We expect a deceleration in practically all economies.'' Colombian Vice President Francisco Santos is more blunt: "We're in a serious economic crisis. Financing is going to get scarcer and scarcer, and that means that investment is going to be difficult to attract.''The extent to which the Havana/Caracas-led Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas or the broader Union of South American Nations can maintain Latin America's current prosperity in the midst of world capitalism's current disruption will probably be limited to joint enterprises sponsored by Moscow and Beijing. "State-controlled Gazprom and Rosneft, as well as private companies Lukoil, TNK-BP and Surgutneftegaz, plan to pour tens of billions of dollars of investment into Venezuela," Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko revealed on September 29. "It is a colossus being born," Hugo Chavez crowed, referring to the participation of Petroleos de Venezuela SA in the project, while on his eighth trip to Russia last month. According to Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller, Chavez and his Russian counterpart Dmitry Medvedev also discussed the possibility of forming a natural gas cartel.          
