Finance expert Owen Woodley has launched a blog in a bid to offer reassurance and advice to people concerned about how the economic climate is affecting them. Owen, Deputy Chief Executive of Moneyway, decided to draw on his experience within the banking world to benefit people who were worried, but reluctant to seek advice from their own bank manager. www.Askowen.co.uk will offer impartial advice and support, and allow readers to ask questions about their own situations, and share money-saving tips, as the country teeters on the brink of recession. Owen said: To say that people are worried about the future is a bit of an understatement. Everyday we hear about house prices falling and people finding theyre in negative equity, about redundancies and spiralling bills. People are worried about the implications, but they dont want to ask for a meeting with their bank manager to ask his or her opinion and advice on what provisions and improvements they can make, a face-to-face discussion can be a daunting prospect, especially if you are struggling. The point of this is that people can ask for advice directly from me, or discuss their own tips. This isnt a service aimed at Moneyway customers, and its not a way to push Moneyways services. It is about trying to offer reassurance and advice in a time of difficulty, which everyone has some need of at some point, he said. Owen started his career in corporate banking in London, followed by a number of years running parts of the Barclays businesses in Africa. More recently, Owen was Regional Director for the 450 Barclays and Woolwich branches in the Midlands and in London. He joined Secure Trust Bank in 2006, as it was re-branded Moneyway. Owen added: If the site does nothing more than prompt people to switch to a more economic fuel provider, then it has still helped people to think about where they can make savings and to take action. Banks are all over the news at the moment, and one of the reasons I came to Moneyway was because it prides itself on having the human touch, being simple and transparent, and being experts in its field  and those principles are more important now than ever before, he said. Posted in finance, financial solutions, moneyway&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Tagged: financial advice, moneyway, owen blog, Owen Woodley&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;     
