Does anyone know anything about the digital expert shopping engine &amp;quot;Digital Jones&amp;quot; that was purchased by Shopping.com / Dealtime.com in 2000? Pictures, Videos, Some old website? Checked Wayback machine and had no luck.  This is all I can currently find and it lead me to nothing...really would like to see this thing actually working...   NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 21, 2001  DealTime(R), the world's leading online comparison-shopping service announced today that it will acquire Digital Jones, Inc., the provider of a next generation platform for online guided selling that DealTime began using on its Web site during the fourth quarter of 2000.  Digital Jones' innovative technology translates the knowledge of real world sales experts into an interactive recommendation tool or &amp;quot;virtual salesperson&amp;quot; that helps customers make buying decisions quickly and wisely.  Related Results     Craik Jones Digital     Jones will go slow on digital. (Jones Intercable Inc.)     Jones launches digital cable service.     Jones Launches Digital Near Tucson.     Jones takes charge of Digital operations - Brief Article  &amp;quot;Digital Jones' guided selling platform is the best `what to buy' technology available,&amp;quot; said Dan Ciporin, President and CEO of DealTime.com(R). &amp;quot;It allows e-commerce companies to help customers make the best product purchase decisions based on their specific needs and preferences, offering them the experience they would have working with a sales expert. As a result, commerce sites will increase the lifetime value of each customer by increasing conversion rates, retention and brand loyalty, while gaining insight into the needs of each customer. In addition to continuing to integrate this ground breaking technology into DealTime.com, we are licensing the technology to merchants, manufacturers, portals, traffic aggregators and any other vendors of complex products.&amp;quot;  Digital Jones, Inc. will be merged with DealTime's U.S. subsidiary, DealTime.com, Inc. Digital Jones, based in San Mateo, California, will continue to be run by its co-founder, Murthy Nukala, who will assume the title of Senior Vice President of DealTime. All 35 Digital Jones employees will become employees of DealTime.  &amp;quot;Digital Jones addresses an enormous unmet need in today's marketplace,&amp;quot; said Murthy Nukala, CEO of Digital Jones. &amp;quot;Complex goods are increasingly bought and sold online, the rate of new product introductions is accelerating, and products are getting more feature-rich and differentiated. Consequently, it's increasingly difficult and time-consuming to choose the right product to buy based on one's needs. Digital Jones is pioneering the technology to help sellers and buyers bridge this gap.&amp;quot;  Digital Jones' technology, which was launched on DealTime.com during holiday 2000, mimics an expert salesperson much more closely than any other technology, while costing far less to build and maintain. Consumers who want assistance in choosing which product to buy gain customized product recommendations from Digital Jones sales guides using a quick and easy question and answer process, typically completed in nine to twelve clicks--90% fewer than competitive offerings.  About DealTime(R)  DealTime, the world's leading online comparison-shopping service, is the best single source for finding what, where and how to buy almost anything, anytime from anywhere. Through its Web site, www.dealtime.com, DealTime empowers consumers to compare models, features, brands, and prices at merchants and manufacturers across the Web. DealTime's robust, scalable technology provides consumers with highly relevant search results and the ability to deliver information through wireless devices, including Web-enabled mobile phones and personal digital assistants. At the same time, DealTime offers sellers lowered customer acquisition costs, increased merchandising opportunities with qualified buyers and unrivaled consumer purchasing data. DealTime is a multi-national private company, venture-backed by key strategic and financial partners worldwide including Bertelsmann, America Online, Time Warner, Bank of America, Singapore Telecom and others. Visit www.dealtime.com in the US and Canada, www.dealtime.co.uk in the United Kingdom, www.dealtime.de in Germany and www.dealtime.co.jp in Japan.  DealTime and DealTime.com are registered trademarks of DealTime.com Ltd.  About Digital Jones  Digital Jones aims to revolutionize the way consumer shop and the way traffic aggregators sell complex products. It is run by a world class management team who have pioneered some of the core technologies underlying the Internet and e-commerce and have prior experience at Oracle, Broadvision, Bain &amp;amp; Company, Boston Consulting Group, Silicon Graphics, IBM, and Apple. Members of the Digital Jones' Advisory Board have started over 20 successful high technology companies and include some of the world's premier technologists including Prof. Edward Feigenbaum of Stanford University (winner of the Turing Award, 1994), Alex Edelstein (ex-GM of search, Inktomi), Amit Shah (VP of Business Development, Cisco Systems), Siva Kumar (founder of Impresse, OneBox, Telera and ezCLose), Rajeev Motwani of Stanford University and Munjal Shah (CEO, Andale).
