By Tim Knox Contrary to popular opinion, starting a business is not exclusively the domain of the young. In fact, in many cases, people at or nearing retirement age can are not only excellent prospects for beginning a business, they are usually some of the most qualified candidates. Why? Aside from the obvious edge in experience that comes with being long in the tooth, when it comes to qualifying for business finance, baby boomers are as a rule extremely bankable.   According to recent studies 22 percent of men and 14 percent of women over 65 are self-employed. That&amp;#8217;s compared to just 7 percent for other age groups.  According to a Vanderbilt University study the number of entrepreneurs age 45 to 64 will grow by 15 million this year alone.   That&amp;#8217;s compared to a 4 million decline for entrepreneurs age 25 to 44.  A 1998 survey of baby boomers conducted by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) revealed that 80 percent of respondents planned to work beyond retirement age, and 17 percent of those planned to launch new businesses. The study noted, &amp;#8220;Self-employment among American workers increases with age, with the most dramatic jump occurring at age 65.&amp;#8221;  Older entrepreneurs may also find starting a business easier than their younger counterparts because older entrepreneurs tend to have more experience to draw from and more assets with which to finance a business. Also, retirees can tap into their IRA for startup funds. They also have the time to start, manage and grow a business that the average working stiff cant hope to match. Further evidence comes from a report released by Barclays Bank entitled Third Age Entrepreneurs - Profiting From Experience. The report shows that older entrepreneurs are responsible for 50 percent more business start-ups than 10 years ago. This amounts to around 60,000 business start-ups last year.  The survey also showed that today&amp;#8217;s third age entrepreneurs (as the report calls entrepreneurs over the age of 50) don&amp;#8217;t mind putting in the hours required to build their business. Nearly 49 percent work an average of 36 hours or more a week. Third agers also rated holidays, lack of stress and a balance between work and home life more important than their younger counterparts. The report further showed that only 27 percent run the business as the only source of household income, with 51 percent supplementing their pension. Other key findings showed that third age start-ups account for 15 percent of all new businesses, and third age entrepreneurs are three times more likely to be male than female.  As always, there is a possible downside to starting any business (isn&amp;#8217;t there always?). Many businesses fail within the first few years and older entrepreneurs may be less able to handle the financial loss than younger entrepreneurs. It&amp;#8217;s one thing to lose everything at 25, but it&amp;#8217;s a much bigger deal to be financially ruined at 65.  So my advice to all you boomers is that if your health and finances allow (and the Mrs. gives the green light) by all means start your business.  Now is the time to start thinking about turning a hobby or other passion that has languished on the back burner into a business. So, climb on the entrepreneurial roller coaster and hang on tight. It sure beats sitting in the rocking chair by a long stretch. Tim Knox is syndicated business columnist, contributing business writer for Entrepreneur.com, and owner of http://www.timknox.com   Tim&amp;#8217;s message is spreading fast. His weekly column, &amp;#8220;Small Business Q&amp;amp;A With Tim Knox&amp;#8221; can be found on over 25,000 different websites and that number grows every week. 
