Circle businessman David Ginis (right) was elected chair of the Corridor Improvement Authority at the groups inaugural meeting Wednesday. Ginis, 5011 Sturgeon Creek Parkway, is the owner of Ginis Goldsmith and president of the Circle Business Association. He was active in efforts to establish the authority. Elected vice chair was Gregory Adkins, 2904 Dawn Drive, a commercial banking client manager with Bank of America. The board adopted bylaws and a meeting schedule. Regular meetings will be at 3 p.m. on third Wednesdays at City Hall. The board also discussed how to proceed from here. One issue is the authoritys relationship with the Circle Business Association and the Center City Initiative of the Midland Area Chamber of Commerce. Planning Director Keith Baker said he would provide background information at the next couple of meetings to help the group do strategic planning. The corridor district extends from Manor Drive southeast along Saginaw Road to Patrick. It includes the Circle, the Kmart area and Midland Towne Center. In addition to Ginis and Adkins, members at the meeting were Joe Kozuch, 4129 N. Jefferson Ave., owner of Village Green; Jerry Deming, 872 S. Pinecroft Lane, owner of Ponderosa Steakhouse; Clinton Struthers, 409 Capitol Drive, representing residents in the vicinity of the corridor; and former Midland City Manager Clifford Miles, 2008 Belaire. City Manager Jon Lynch, also a member, was absent. BACKGROUND Established in May by the City Council, the authority currently is without a funding source. Under state law, it could develop similarly to the Downtown Development Authority, which collects taxes on increases in taxable value in the district  tax increment financing  and levies additional millage. The corridor authority could be authorized by the City Council to do the same, although it could also seek foundation support. Plans for the authority were developed by the Chamber of Commerce, which formed a Center City Initiative and provided money for three years to hire Heidi SaidiZand as a coordinator of a volunteer steering committee. The chamber acted after it was asked by the local Project for Public Spaces group to develop a strategy for the Circle south to Patrick Road. &amp;#8211;By John Palen 
