Kris Gopalakrishnan, boss of Infosys, thought he had the British IT firm Axon in the bag  then an Indian rival outbid him. Is the East now carving up the West? And so it goes. Offstage from last weeks main financial dramas, a fight breaks out between two Indian IT giants, both bidding to buy the British tech consultancy Axon. It looks like a sign of things to come. One of our strategies is to reduce our dependence on America, explains Infosys boss Kris Gopalakrishnan, in Indian-inflected English, and to increase our revenues from Europe and the rest of the world. We also want to do more value-added services, and we want to leverage the customer base. So this acquisition has to meet multiple strategic objectives. He might add that western companies are ripe for the picking, as a new breed of heavyweight emerges from the East. Deep in pocket, with cheaper pay scales and market-leading, technological know-how. But Gopalakrishnan, one of Infosyss founders, just stirs his tea and smiles. His approach to business, like the Infosys approach to software, is designed with a certain polite logic. Given that his business is now in Indias top 10 by market value and employs 95,000 people, you can believe that logic regularly pays off. Then, just occasionally, the unexpected happens. Nine days ago Indian rival HCL trumped Infosyss 407m bid for Axon by offering 441m. On Friday Axon said it was backing HCL. Shares in Infosys, which are listed in Mumbai and New York, slumped. This weekend Gopalakrishnan and his board will ponder making a higher bid. Their response should be known by Friday, when Infosys announces its half-yearly results. But one way or another, the Indians are coming. Holding court in an upstairs reception room at Londons Covent Garden Hotel, Gopalakrishnan, 53, seems untroubled by the fuss. Tucking into tea and biscuits, flanked by his banker and a coterie of PR women, he sits a little detached. He was one of the original seven software engineers who founded Infosys in 1981, and is the third to head it, appointed chief executive last year. Short, affable, grey-haired and moustached, he has the distant air of one who is happier dealing with algorithms than people. His company, alongside Wipro and Tata Consultancy, is one of Indias big-three tech-support giants. It has built a base sorting out western firms software problems, providing the internal links that mesh multinationals together. The growth of this outsourcing work  from call centres to software and systems contracts, taking tasks to where the cheapest solution can be found  underpins globalisation, and is one of the bedrocks of Indias economic success. But so far it has also been dependent on deals with western multinationals. For Infosys, that is now a problem. Around 97% of its likely $5 billion (2.8 billion) revenues this year will come from outside India, much of it from America. With an economic slump there inevitable, that needs some adjustment. Hence Infosyss desire to own more in Europe. Were now consciously growing Europe, nods Gopalakrishnan. Today our revenues are 60% America, 30% Europe, 10% rest of the world. We want to take it to 40-40-20. British firms like Axon make a good start. Axon specialises in servicing software developed by the German firm SAP and advising clients such as Vodafone and Barclays on implementation. Such work is important  Infosys, like its Indian rivals, is keen to move up the value chain to higher-end consulting, and get more business here. Then it can really take on western rivals such as IBM and Accenture. All of which explains why Infosys and HCL, Indias fifth-largest tech-support group, are scrapping for the firm, prepared to pay more than twice Axons annual revenues of 204m to get it. Infosys has made only one overseas acquisition before  in Australia five years ago  and prefers growing organically. Its main experience of employing Europeans is an outsourcing deal with Philips that saw it take on 700 employees in Poland. But tougher times need a shift in strategy. Infosys is not just heavily dependent on America, but also on the banking, insurance and financial-services sector  it provides over a third of its revenues. That must be taking a hit. Was Lehman Brothers a client? Gopalakrishnan shakes his head. Thats confidential. All I can say is that if there is a slowdown and your clients reduce their spending, it has an impact. Last year Infosys grew at 35%. This year we are giving guidance of 19%-21%. Such figures still look good, given the trouble in the West. It has even been suggested that Indian firms could now buy up ailing banks back-office functions. Gopalakrishnan smiles and dodges the question. If youre asking me if we are going to buy a bank, no. But, he adds, we will see more functions sold off by big business. As industries mature, you have to bring in efficiencies. As for the prediction of layoffs in Indian firms as western clients drop away, he is bullish. These companies are not going to stop spending money on technology, they still have to run data centres, maintain applications, make changes, go after new business opportunities. And if you think about where they will invest for the future and growth, it will be in Asia and emerging markets &amp;#8230; You lose some, but you win some too, as new companies come up and offer new opportunities. Gopalakrishnan has a lot riding on his handling of this shift in world power. Modest and softly spoken, he is less charismatic than his predecessor at Infosys, Nandan Nilekani, but still broadly experienced. He spent part of the 1990s in America, working with Infosys clients. Colleagues says his character fits Infosyss consensual management style. Kris is a techie, but hes approachable and people find it easy to talk to him, says Infosys vice-president BG Srinivas. He also connects very well with customers. And customers, as Gopalakrishnan acknowledges, are the key. They keep pushing Infosys to do more. But where does it stop? If you do a good job, you get asked to do more, says Gopalakrishnan, and you have to stretch yourself to meet expectations because their expectations keep going up. Otherwise, what happens is they offer you more, and someone else walks away with it. That is the way Infosys has grown. Established by colleagues who met at Indias Patni Computer Systems, the firm was set up from an apartment in Pune, near Mumbai, with just $250 in capital. Five of the founders are still involved in the business. And from the start, it targeted work from abroad, not India. Gopalakrishnan, the son of a small businessman, says that shared values have moulded a particular leadership approach. We were all educated, middle class, from similar backgrounds and weve always believed the best idea should win, not just because a boss says so. If you want a world-class organisation, its got to be built on the best ideas, and we always wanted to be world standard. Thats now reflected in the companys lushly landscaped, 300-acre campus outside Bangalore in southern India, and in the management training and overseas travel that a job at Infosys now offers. They used to say in America, Join the Navy and see the world. Now they say that about us in India, beams Gopalakrishnan. This weeks half-yearly results may show whether that expansion can continue unchecked. Infosys is a bellwether stock for Indian business  fiscally conservative, and priding itself on its transparency. That conservatism is one reason why some think it may baulk at paying more for Axon. But Gopalakrishnan is confident that Indias grip on IT services will tighten. From a demographic perspective we have the youngest population in the world; soon well have 600m people under 35, thats a huge pool. But our customers are around the world, and were also going to have a growing presence in all locations. Were recruiting straight from college in Britain, weve been doing it in America for years, this year weve started in Germany &amp;#8230; And Indian politics, which have been volatile, wont get in the way? The Indian IT giants have benefited from tax concessions which end next year  then it could get tougher. No, says Gopalakrishnan. If India has to progress and create jobs for its people, it has to support its industry. Sometimes there may be temporary reversals, but the general direction is progress. And if Infosys doesnt buy Axon, who will it target next? Last year there were rumours of a much bigger bid for the British software firm Sage. Ive not heard that, says Gopalakrishnan carefully, before adding: There are many speculations. But for now, thats enough. &amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212; Related Posts : India&amp;#8217;s Infosys to Buy Axon Group in All-Cash Deal &amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;&amp;#8212;- Subscribe to Tarun Reflex and information on Pay Commission by Email Subscribe to Tarun Reflex   Personal,Political and Technical  (The Citizen Reporter) &amp;amp; latest update on Six Pay Commission by Email  : : : :  : : :  :  :  :  :  
