Allan Allweiss has joined LBC Credit Partners as a managing director in charge of the firms new Chicago office. He previously was executive VP of CIT Commercial and Industrial.   PRESS RELEASE Allan Allweiss has joined LBC Credit Partners as a Managing Director responsible for the firm&amp;#8217;s newly opened Chicago office. Prior to joining LBC, Allweiss was Executive Vice President of CIT Commercial and Industrial. His responsibilities included leading the sales and underwriting efforts for the Midwest, Southwest and West Regions of the United States and leading the Financial Services Vertical. Prior to CIT, Allweiss spent nearly 15 years at Bank of America Business Capital and predecessor companies in various leadership positions, most recently as its Executive Vice President and Marketing Manager for the Midwest Region with responsibility for the sales function in 13 Midwestern states and the Ontario Province in Canada. Before joining Bank of America Allweiss was with Chrysler Capital, Citicorp and Sanwa Business Credit. He is an active member of the Association for Corporate Growth and past board member of the Chicago Chapter. He is also a past board member of the Venture Club of Indiana. Prior to starting his career in banking, he worked for over four years as an Economist for the Wisconsin Department of Revenue. Allweiss has a BA in Economics from Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin and holds both an MBA degree in Finance and an MA in Economics from the University of Wisconsin - Madison. &amp;#8220;We are proud that Allan has brought his experience and expertise to our firm,&amp;#8221; said LBC&amp;#8217;s Executive Partner John Brignola. &amp;#8220;His reputation, leadership skills and deep knowledge of the credit markets adds incredible value to all aspects of our business.&amp;#8221; LBC Credit Partners is a leading mezzanine fund providing privately negotiated junior capital to middle market businesses with revenues generally less than $750 million and junior debt requirements of $10-$50 million. LBC&amp;#8217;s capital is flexible across industries, structures and situations, and follows a long-term approach to investing, adhering to a &amp;#8220;lend and hold&amp;#8221; strategy. LBC has invested in over 25 different industry sectors with investments taking the form of last-out senior loans, tranche B loans, second lien loans, mezzanine debt, and convertible debt and equity participations. For information about LBC Credit Partners visit www.lbccredit.com  ShareThis         
