[excerpt from The Rise of the Fourth Reich by Jim Marrs]Two prominent U.S. business leaders who supported Hitler and served on the board of directors of the Union Banking Corporation were George Herbert Walker and his son-in-law Prescott Bush, father of George H. W. Bush and grandfather of President George W. Bush. The attorneys for these dealings were John Foster Dulles and his brother Allen. John later became secretary of state under President Dwight D. Eisenhower while Allen become one of the longest-serving CIA directors before being fired by President John F. Kennedy in 1961. Both were original members of the Council on Foreign Relations.On October 20, 1942, the office of U.S. Alien Property Custodian, operating under the "Trading With the Enemy Act" (U.S. Government Vesting Order No. 248), seized the shares of UBC on the grounds that the bank was financing Hitler. Also seized were Bush's holdings in the Hamburg-America ship line that had been used to ferry Nazi propagandists and arms. Another company essential to the passing of Nazi money was the Holland American Trading Company, a subsidiary of UBC. It was through Fritz Thyssen's Dutch Bank, originally founded by Thyssen's father in 1916, that Nazi money was passed. This Dutch connection tied the Bush and Nazi money directly to former SS officer and founder of the Bilderberg Group, Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, who was once secretary to the board of directors of I.G. Farben, with close connections to the Dutch Bank. [U.S. Department of Justice Nazi War Crimes prosecutor John] Loftus noted, "Thyssen did not need any foreign bank accounts because his family secretly owned an entire chain of banks. He did not have to transfer his Nazi assets at the end of World War II, all he had to do was transfer the ownership documents--stocks, bonds, deeds, and trusts--from his bank in Berlin through his bank in Holland to his American friends in New York City: Prescott Bush and Herbert Walker. Thyssen's partners in crime were the father and father-in-law of a future president of the United States."The leading shareholder in UBC was E. Roland Harriman, son of Edward H. Harriman, who had been an early and important mentor to Prescott Bush. Another son, Averell Harriman, also held ownership in UBC. He was named ambassador to the Soviet Union by President Roosevelt in 1943 and participated in all major wartime conferences. Averell later became ambassador to Great Britain , U.S. secretary of commerce, and governor of New York State. Both Harrimans had been members of the Yale secret society Skull and Bones and were closely connected to the globalists at the Council on Foreign Relations. Averell also was a close advisor to President Lyndon Johnson.On November 17, 1942, U.S. authorities also seized the Silesian-American Corporation, managed by Prescott Bush and his father-in-law, George Herbert Walker, and charged the firm with being a Nazi front company that was supplying vital coal to Germany. But according to government documents that have recently come to light and were published by the New Hampshire Gazette in 2003, "the grandfather of President George W. Bush failed to divest himself of more than a dozen 'enemy national' relationships that continued as late as 1951." The newly released documents also showed that Bush and his associates routinely tried to conceal their business activities from government investigators and that such dealings were conducted through the New York private banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman. Brown Brothers Harriman, the oldest privately owned bank in America, was formed in 1931 when the Brown brothers, originally importers of Irish linen, merged with railroad tycoon Edward H. Harriman."After the war," according to the Gazette report, "a total of 18 additional Brown Brothers Harriman and UBC-related client assets were seized under the Trading with the Enemy Act, including several that showed the continuation of a relationship with the Thyssen family after the initial 1942 seizures. The records also show that Bush and the Harrimans conducted business after the war with related concerns doing business in or moving assets into Switzerland, Panama, Argentina and Brazil--all critical outposts for the flight of Nazi capital after Germany's surrender in 1945."Why was Prescott Bush not more openly and aggressively prosecuted for his Nazi dealings? This may be due to the fact that the patriarch Bush was "instrumental in the creation of the USO in late 1941," according to a news release from the United Service Organization in 2002. After all, it would have looked very bad during wartime to publicly prosecute as a Nazi asset the man who helped create the USO, so beloved by U.S. servicemen in all subsequent wars."The story of Prescott Bush and Brown Brothers Harriman is an introduction to the real history of our country," said publisher and historian Edward Boswell. "It exposes the money-making motives behind our foreign policies, dating back a full century. The ability of Prescott Bush and the Harrimans to bury their checkered pasts also reveals a collusion between Wall Street and the media that exists to this day."More of the story:John Buchanan - Bush Family Secrets
