     Saul Steinberg -&amp;nbsp;   :&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;    30  ,  600 ,    2001: http://www.forbes.com/2001/06/18/0618steinberg.htmlPeople Forbes Face: Saul Steinberg Dan Ackman, 06.18.01, 1:00 PM ET NEW YORK - That Saul Steinberg's business is busted is old news. His realtor knew it more than a year ago when he put up Steinberg's Park Avenue apartment for sale--it fetched $37 million. His art dealer knew it before then. Steinberg sold his Old Masters paintings last April for $50 million. His interior decorator also knew. The once-feared corporate raider whose personal fortune had topped $600 million dumped his antiques for $12 million soon after he unloaded the art. His mother also knew: She took Steinberg and his brother Robert to court when they stiffed her for more than $6 million on a promissory note. Steinberg resigned as chairman of insurer Reliance Group in May. The company is expected to lose more than $2 billion this year; the insurance company it owns is now being run by Pennsylvania state regulators. But when Reliance filed for bankruptcy this week, it was still a stunner. Not because it was unexpected--indeed, it was long-expected. The real surprise was how boring the ending was: a prepackaged bankruptcy with debtors politely taking their piece of the onetime insurance giant. For Steinberg to go out this way is like Richard III winding up in his lawyer's office calmly signing away his kingdom: pathetic. Only the presence of Carl Icahn, a fellow 1980s powerhouse who is still going strong, could give Steinberg's final demise the drama promised by the first and second act of the former boy wonder's career. Steinberg first got rich in the late 1960s--just a few years out of Wharton--by leasing IBM (nyse: IBM - news - people ) computers. He proved so creative at the practice that his company, Leasco, became valuable enough that in 1968 he could use its stock to buy Reliance Insurance, a 150-year-old Philadelphia firm. He was just 29 years old. At the time, Forbes reported that he made more money on his own that year than anyone in America under 30. Had he died then, his life would have been a masterpiece, the James Dean of high finance. Steinberg used Reliance as his base of operations. In 1969, he mounted a takeover of Chemical Bank, then one of the nation's largest financial institutions. Chemical and its allies in the establishment beat him back. But the brashness of the attempt was magnificent. In 1984, he made a bid for The Walt Disney Co. (nyse: DIS - news - people ), another household name. He didn't get that one either. But he did force Disney to pay him an almost $60 million premium for his shares, which helped put the word "greenmail" into the financial lexicon. Reliance and others, including Drexel Burnham Lambert, which financed his bid, later agreed to pay $45 million to Disney shareholders who sued in protest of the payment. If Steinberg made a lot of noise in the business world, he also rocked socially. The financier threw a 50th-birthday bash for third wife Gayfryd at his mansion on Long Island, the bill for which was reportedly over $1 million. When his daughter married into the Tisch family, the event at the Metropolitan Museum's Temple of Dendur had the air of a royal wedding. But when the '80s ended, Steinberg was left with Reliance, the holding company, whose sole asset (except for cash) was the insurer. It wasn't bad. The board, dominated by Steinberg, was quite generous to Steinberg the chief executive. His salary consistently topped that of Maurice Greenberg of American International Group (nyse: AIG - news - people ), a legendary insurance chief who ran a larger and more profitable company. Since 1991, Steinberg received more than $48 million in salary and bonuses.* He also received more than $100 million in dividends from his 31% ownership of the company. Members of his family received millions more. Meanwhile, he was running the company into the ground. There was no single catastrophic event to cause the demise, just garden-variety mismanagement, albeit in a big way. The company was eager to expand and it wrote policies too cheaply. This brought in cash--the better to pay dividends--in the short run, but led to payouts in the long run, a fundamental error in the insurance game. The huge sums the company paid Steinberg and his brother didn't help. His family's equity stake in the company has been wiped out. Steinberg was also a huge spender. Still the question remains, what happened to all that money? The two divorces no doubt took a bite out of him. But for all his bravado, the various sales indicate that Steinberg never invested well. Having sold the 17,000-square-foot duplex once owned by John D. Rockefeller, he and Gayfryd are living in a three-bedroom hotel apartment on Madison Avenue. At this point, his life is a cautionary tale for the superrich: Even they must take care. Steinberg, who has suffered a stroke, still faces fallout from the business devastation. Shareholders who lost it all will certainly sue. First they will go after the directors-and-officers policy. Some may lay claim to his personal assets--including the cash from his various sales. If and when Steinberg winds up in court, he can only hope his mother is not there, too, to testify against him. 
