Gordon Brown yesterday created a new 19-strong national economic council as he effectively put the government on an economic war footing.  He has added muscle to his team with the appointment of Paul Myners, chairman of the Guardian Media Group and a former chairman of Marks &amp;amp;amp; Spencer, as City spokesman.  Stephen Carter, Brown's former strategy adviser at No 10 and now communications minister, will also sit on the council.  Myners and Carter will be made peers, alongside Peter Mandelson, the new business secretary.  The economic sub-committee is expected to meet twice a week and act as the focus of the government's effort to stave off recession, the global crisis in the financial markets and volatile prices.  The move may clip the wings of the Treasury, which will have to share much of the key economic analysis with the Cabinet Office.  But Brown said he was seeking &amp;amp;quot;to reconstruct the way we govern to meet the new challenges coming from financial instability, oil price rises, food shortages and by making the right investments in science and technology. We need to have a sharper focus on all these areas.&amp;amp;quot;  He predicted that every government would reconstruct their ways of working in a similar fashion over the next few months.  &amp;amp;quot;The new problems have completely changed, so it is not just what the Treasury does, but also energy, food and housing,&amp;amp;quot; the prime minister said.  The new committee has already been dubbed an economic version of the exisiting Cobra emergency committee.  Lady Vadera, the minister for economic competitiveness and small business, and a close ally of Brown's, will also attend.  Margaret Beckett, the former foreign secretary, who has been appointed housing minister, will also be there.  Brown knows that the state of the mortgage market will be one of the key determinants of the next election.  He will chair the committee that will be attended by all the main economic departments, including the Treasury, business, the Foreign Office, energy and climate change, innovation and skills, communities and local government.  In a further sign of the committee's importance, Ed Balls, the children, schools and families secretary, and a former chief economic adviser to the Treasury, will also attend.  Downing Street also announced that a working group of senior officials, to be chaired by the cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, and the permanent secretary at the Treasury, Nicholas Macpherson, will meet regularly with the permanent secretaries of all departments whose ministers serve on the national economic council.  The council will meet for the first time on Monday ahead of a statement in the Commons by the chancellor, Alistair Darling .  A network of business ambassadors will also be established to support the government overseas.  Among the appointments are Sir John Bond, chairman of Vodaphone, Lord Browne, president of the Royal Academy of Engineering and former BP boss, Marcus Agius, chairman of Barclays, and Sir Victor Blank, chairman of Lloyds TSB. Profile: Paul Myners  Paul Myners has risen from inner city schoolteacher to become one of the City grandees called upon by the government when economic disaster strikes. He worked for the Inner London Education Authority in the late 1960s before becoming a financial journalist with the Daily Telegraph. He then joined the blue chip investment bank Rothschild, and then fund manager group Gartmore. Under his stewardship its funds ballooned from 1.2bn in 1985 to 75bn in 2001. After leaving Gartmore he took up several chairmanships including Marks &amp;amp;amp; Spencer. He is giving up all his directorships, including the Guardian Media Group chairmanship, but will not be paid in his new role. City sources said he was giving up at least 1m in annual income and 3m of shares. He compiled a government review of institutional investment and has chaired the Low Pay Commission since 2006. &amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;PLIGG_Visual_RSS_OriginalNews
