Executive Summary JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co, is a global investment and commercial bank with assets of $1.5 trillion, operations in more than 50 countries and a history of more than 200 years. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management, and private equity. JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. is currently led by CEO Jamie Dimon and is currently the third largest banking institution in the United States. Over the years, the bank had gone through a lot of turbulent times and yet has managed to be outstanding among its competitors. However, even companies as large and well established like JPMorgan would suffer the consequences should they ignore the trends and patterns happening in the external environment that is beyond their control. Examining the some of the factors and forces of the external environment would give us a clear view of how the recent changes in trends and events are going to affect not only JPMorgan but the financial industry as a whole. Factors Affecting the Financial Industry According to David Fred (2007), the purpose of an external audit is to develop a finite list of the opportunities that could benefit a firm and threats that should be avoided. External factors in the general environment can be divided into five main categories that include (1) the political, governmental, and legal factors, (2) the economic factors, (3) the social, culture, demographic and environmental factors, (4) the technological factors and (5) the competitive events and trends. Though it is common to divide the external factors into five different categories, these forces are interrelated and overlapping with one another.  The first segment, involving the political, governmental and legal factors is in todays world becoming increasingly volatile as the world faces globalization and the rapid increase in energy and food prices. Due to globalization, the major financial providers face intense competition as governments deregulate and re-regulate of the financial industry. For example, the breakdown of the Glass-Steagall Act (1933) and its replacement, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (1999) according to Glenn Hubbard R. (2005), has made it possible for the merger and acquisition of investment and commercial banks in the United States. Whether re-regulation or deregulation is an opportunity or threat is highly dependent on the effects of the changed legal framework in which the financial institution is subjected to. In the case of JPMorgan Chase, the gradual opening up of the Malaysian financial sector like how foreign banks can open more branches locally should be viewed as an opportunity to expand JPMorgans presence in Malaysia. On the other hand, the recent increase in the reserve requirement of banks operating in China is a threat, as it would reduce a banks profitability.  Another aspect in this area is also the imminent danger of political uncertainty due to spiking energy and food prices that have increase not only the cost of living but also the operating cost of most business firms. The results were massive riots, strikes and an uprising of popularity of opposition parties like those seen in Korea, Taiwan, and Malaysia. Political instability should be viewed, as a potential threat to financial institutions as a countrys property, equity, and currency value is highly sensitive to changes in the political environment.  The second segment, the economic factors, refers to the nature and direction of the economy in which a firm competes or may compete (Hitt, Ireland &amp;amp; Hokisson, 2005). According to the IMFs World Economic Outlook April 2008, global growth will experience a slowdown (3.7%) in 2008 because of troubles in the United States like the subprime and financial crisis while emerging economies though likely to fare better would also experience adverse effects (Refer Table 3).. Global inflation on the other hand, would be a major concern as commodity prices like crude oil, tin, nickel, soybeans, corn, and wheat have reached records high in current U.S. dollar terms.  In the Malaysian context, we find that the Malaysian economy is also predicted to slow in 2008 with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 5.5% (6.3% in 2007). Malaysias Inflation is poised to increase from previous estimates of 2.5% to 2.9% according to Citigroup Investment Research (Refer Table 4) and unemployment remains low at 3.2% (Refer Figure 9) in 2007 (Racheal Kam. et. al., 2008). On the negative side, Malaysia has highest budget deficit (Refer Table 2).as percentage of GDP within ASEAN (Fintan Ng &amp;amp; Suraj R., 2008) and foreign direct investments (FDIs) into Malaysia have not met pre-Asian crisis levels (Refer Table 1). The anticipated global economic slowdown is a threat to financial institutions as it means that there will be lesser investment projects in need of finance worldwide that would result in JPMorgan being forced to compete viciously against competitors in a smaller market. Fluctuations in price levels especially in property and commodity sectors also present itself as a threat as the bank faces increased uncertainty on the value of collateral taken as insurance against defaults. However, a good deal of opportunity lies in emerging Asian countries especially in China and India that are still forecasted to maintain high economic growth according to Elaine Ang &amp;amp; Leong H. Y., 2008.  The third segment, the social, culture, demographic and environmental factors is concerned with the world or local populations characteristics and the natural environment they are subjected to. In terms of population size, the worlds population is expected to increase to slightly less than 6.5 billion compared to 6.1 billion in 2000 (Hitt, Ireland &amp;amp; Hokisson, 2005). In terms of numbers, China and India alone would make up a third of the worlds population thereby making them the largest markets for financial services (Refer Figure 8). The largest number of illiterate population also comes from South and East Asia (Refer Figure 5).  Even though world population is projected to increase to 9.2 billion in 2050, Peter F. Drucker (2002) also noted that the next society would face a rapid growth in the older population and the rapid shrinking of the younger generation especially in developed countries like the Germany, and Japan (Refer Table 5 and Table 6). An aging population in certain countries would foster large-scale immigrations as these countries strive to maintain the quantity of their workforce. Immigration in turn would make the working environment of firms more diverse as people with different cultures and backgrounds are brought together.  The last segment, the technological factors, refers to inventions or innovations from applied science or engineering research. The accuracy of the Moores Law, whereby the increase in computing power comes along with a decrease in cost every year, has enabled the financial industry to serve more customers and provide a wider range of services with the same number of employees. The widespread usage of ATMs, credit cards and online banking is a good example of how the application of technology has increased the capacity and capability in the financial industry.  Yet even as technology has brought many benefits, technology can also be seen as a threat as it has brought the emergence of unprecedented events like the hacking of Citibanks computer in 1995 and also the development of complex financial derivatives (Mishkin &amp;amp; Strahan, 1999) that were the core of the recent subprime mortgage crisis. Furthermore, the advancement in information technology made the financial industry more competitive as traditional barriers to entry like a branch network becomes less significant.  Among the competitive trends and events occurring in the financial industry is convergence and consolidation. As the financial landscape deregulate, financial institutions are able to proliferate services in an attempt to achieve a one-stop financial center and take full advantage of economies of scale and scope. As an example, Citibank operates security/broker firms, while security firms like Merrill Lynch operate banks. Financial institutions are also consolidating into fewer, but having a larger global presence. Banking behemoths like Citibank and Deutsche Bank operate around the globe and offer a wide range of services.  To further understand the implications that the general environment has on the industry, we use the Porters Five-Forces Model of competitive analysis. According to Michael E. Porter (2008), industry structure drives competition and profitability. The advancement in information technology has dramatically increased the bargaining power of both suppliers (depositors) and customers by increasing their price sensitivity. Depositors for example, can quickly use the internet to determine the highest interest rates in the market and deposit their money there.  Besides that, financial institutions also face more threats of new entrants as non-bank firms invade the territory previously exclusive to financial institutions. Companies like General Electric, General Motors and Wal-Mart have established their own financial arm to take advantage of their existing customer base (Rose &amp;amp; Hudgins, 2008). Non-bank companies like Wal-Mart could potentially put heavy pressure on prices, costs and profitability as they gain leverage of having thousands of stores that could serve as distribution channels.  In terms of threat of substitutes, financial institution find themselves facing threats from financial disintermediation as firms increasingly lean on the bond market to raise funds for their financial and working capital needs. Furthermore, companies with good credit ratings able to raise funds in the capital market at a lower interest rates and will therefore find this method more preferable than traditional bank ...
