Rather random, but this is just something I think about sometimes that perhaps we are indeed moving back towards communism as Marx has predicted.As democracy flourishes and people becomes more aware of their status within the capitalistic society, they tend to group together and form rather powerful social voices e.g. protestations etc to counter the hegemony. This is not unlike what Marx postulated regarding the proletariat becoming aware of their alienation and then overthrowing the bourgeoisie although it actually takes a longer period of time (than predicted) with many other new factors coming in along the way.We see feminists fighting for equal rights, gays (or I'd prefer to call tangentially straight people 'cause everyone is straight in many different directions) are fighting for equal rights, people and even international charities (see below) are trying to close the income/ knowledge/ technology/ third-world-first-world/ whatever gaps. Isn't equality the fundamental ideology of communism?In a way, we are moving towards communism. But perhaps it is a different type of communism in that everyone is equal but yet different, unlike the communism we have been socialized to know that is represented by North Korea or olden China.Unlike Marx though, I doubt that will be the ending destination even if it does happen for there will always be a struggle between powers within the society (even in Heaven, some "people" are still more equal than others). Perhaps then, we will just be swaying between capitalism and communism throughout time and space?Agence France-Presse - 10/16/2008 10:49 AM GMTCharities criticise rich nations over bailoutsFive global charities on Thursday criticised rich nations for quickly bailing out the world's ailing financial sector while "foot-dragging" on aid, climate change and poverty. In a joint statement, the heads of Amnesty International, World Vision, Oxfam, Greenpeace and Plan International warned of dire consequences if wealthy states used the crisis to cut aid and trade. "The urgency shown by rich countries to tackle the financial meltdown stands in stark contrast to their foot-dragging and broken promises over aid and poverty alleviation, human rights and climate change," they said. "Rich countries will be following a myopic and self-defeating strategy if they ignore the most pressing challenges of our times and focus solely on narrow financial interests." The 123-billion US dollar lifeline thrown by the US government to American insurance giant AIG was 18 billion dollars more than its annual aid package for poor countries, they said. It was also twice the amount needed to achieve an internationally-agreed goal to reduce poverty by 2015, the organisations added. The 37 billion pounds (47 billion euro, 64 billion US) the British government is spending to help recapitalise its banking sector is "roughly what's needed for poor countries to adapt to climate change each year," they added. "For millions of the world's poorest citizens, it is literally a matter of life and death," the statement said, referring to a possible drying up of international aid. There is also a risk of increasing human rights violations and rising social tensions, they warned. "As the economy shrinks and countries tighten their belts, migrants and refugees could be pushed back to untenable situations," they said. "Social tensions could increase, leading nervous governments to clamp down on dissent and impose tough public security policies curbing civil liberties. "Already fragile states could be further weakened by the current crisis and slide back into instability." Economic crises historically led to reduced aid and trade, the groups recalled. During the 1972/73 recession, global aid spending declined by 15 percent. An economic crisis in the early 1990s led aid donors to slash spending, while help for people hit by natural disasters and conflict also fell sharply, they said. Following the 1929 Wall Street crash and global recession, countries turned protectionist and world trade tumbled by two-thirds, they said. "This is not just about money. It is about sustained attention, international collaboration and clear political will to tackle big issues," the groups said. The statement was signed by Irene Khan, secretary general of human rights watchdog Amnesty International, Jeremy Hobbs, executive director of Oxfam International and Dean Hirsch, chief executive of World Vision. Tom Miller, chief executive of Plan International and Gerd Leipold, international executive director of Greenpeace, also signed the statement. 
