Shares in Barclays continued to plunge today, losing a further 18 per cent of their value to fall below 50p to a new low, as investors continue to take fright at the state of the British banking sector.   The bank's stock lost a further 10.7p to 48.5p after The Times revealed yesterday revealed the existence of a little-known clause in a deal, done last October, under which Barclays raised 7.3 billion from investors in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.   The clause effectively blocks the Government from attempting to part-nationalise Barclays and would deliver it into the hands of its Middle Eastern investors should it try to raise more capital through the market before the end of June.   At the end of last week, Barclays shares plunged 25 per cent, forcing the bank to issue an after-hours announcement that it expects 2008 pretax profits to be well ahead of the 5.3 billion forecast.   However, after the Government revealed a second round of measures to stabilise Britain's battered banking sector, shares in RBS plunged nearly 70 per cent and, the following days attention shifted to Barclays.   Sources close to the Barclays board said that this was hugely frustrating for Mr Varley and Marcus Agius, his chairman, who were disappointed with the share price reaction to Fridays announcement and the markets grudging response to this weeks government package aimed at restoring lending across the economy.   One source told The Times yesterday: There are four reasons why the market has reacted in the way that it has to the Governments latest measures. First, there was the enormity of the losses published by Royal Bank of Scotland on Monday people are applying a read-across from RBS to the rest of the sector. Second, the implications for the capital position of the banking sector remain unclear. Third, the line of sight into 2009 trading is not perfect and, fourth, the situation for the international banking sector is also grim. Deutsche Banks recent profit warning alarmed many while the recent capital injections into Merrill Lynch/Bank of America and Citigroup have been deeply unsettling. 
