LONDON (ShareCast) - The landscape of UK banking will change dramatically next week when the Lloyds Banking Group, the biggest ever UK bank, starts trading on Monday. But will the new 'super bank', formed of Lloyds TSB and HBOS, be able to weather the storm and what will the future hold for the group's shareholders, customers, and employees?   Will Lloyds be able to cope?   Traders fear that Lloyds may need to ask the government for more capital to absorb losses from the deal, especially following news that the US treasury had to throw Bank of America a $138bn emergency lifeline to help the banking giant deal with its acquisition of Merrill Lynch.   Similar to Bank of America, Lloyds handled the early stages of the financial crisis better than most, but how it will be able to cope with HBOS's rising losses is another issue.   Last month, HBOS revealed that corporate and personal bad debts had soared in the past two months with conditions set to get worse.   Corporate arrears jumped to 3.3bn for the 11 months to 30 November, up from an estimated 1.7bn at end September. On the personal side, secured lending arrears prompted a charge of 0.7bn for the 11 months to 30 November 2008 up from 0.4bn in September. Unsecured loan provisions rose to 1bn from 0.8bn.   With the outlook for the British economy in 2009 remaining bleak, the combined group may post more big write downs once recession really kicks in.   Shareholders   In theory, the deal should be good news for HBOS shareholders and not such good news for Lloyds shareholders.   HBOS was struggling with bad debts when Lloyds came to the rescue last year, meaning that HBOS shares, which are down almost 90% on the year as it is, could have been completely worthless if the bank had been left to its own devices.   HBOS shares were suspended from the London Stock Exchange on 14 January, finishing at 70.1p, before being exchanged for shares in the enlarged group that evening. HBOS shares are worth 0.605 of each issued Lloyds share.   Meanwhile, Lloyds shareholders, who saw the value of their holding drop more than 70% in the last 12 month, could see their stakes further diluted if the combined group will have to raise fresh capital.   Overall, the government will own 43.4% of Lloyds Banking Group, 36% will be owned by Lloyds TSB shareholders and 20% by HBOS shareholders.   Employees   HBOS staff has been told that there will be little 'immediate change', but reports suggest the new 'super bank' wants to close 700 out of 3,000 branches and axe as many as 40,000 jobs, although the final figure may be less. HBOS currently has about 1,100 branches and employs 75,000 people, while 70,000 work at Lloyds, which has 1,900 branches.   Royal Bank of Scotland slashed its workforce by 18,000 when it bought NatWest for 21bn eight years ago and the overlap of their business was nowhere near as complicated as this latest deal.   Closures are essential if the merger of the country's biggest mortgage is to achieve targeted annual costs savings of 1.5bn by 2011.   Among the higher ranks, no HBOS executives are to join the board of the new bank with only chief executive Andy Hornby staying on for a few months on a consultancy basis.   Customers   The combined group, with around 145,000 staff and 3,000 branches, will control around a third of UK's mortgages and a quarter of all savings.   There are concerns that there will be a loss of choice and competition on the High Street. At the end of 2008, the Office of Fair Trading warned the merger could lead to a 'substantial lessening' in the choice of personal current accounts, bank services for smaller firms, and the mortgage market.   The government now also has a monopoly on UK banking with only Barclays and HSBC its remaining independent rivals.   Less competition is generally bad news for the consumer, whether the deal will turn out to be a good investment for investors and the government in the long term remains to be seen. 
