 The following is excerpted from J. Zechner Associates&amp;#8217; Market Commentary for November 2008&amp;#8220;In the energy market, we continue to believe that oil prices will work their way back into the US$70-100 range as the global economy stabilizes and the commodity liquidation winds down. The big oil producers within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- Saudi Arabia above all -- are also poised to rein in output if prices slide. Slumping demand in the U.S. , the world's largest oil consumer, has helped to loosen the global oil market in recent months. But Saudi Arabia has already begun to trim its oil shipments in recent weeks after boosting output by more than 500,000 barrels a day this summer. Some analysts say the Saudis, with Iran and Venezuela , could move to trim OPEC's overall production by as much as one million barrels a day in coming months if prices fall much below $90 a barrel or if inventories grow too large. The world now consumes around 86.5 million barrels a day. OPEC provides nearly 40% of that. Even with diminished demand in the U.S. and Europe, many analysts still forecast China and the Mideast will help drive up global oil demand next year by as much as 800,000 barrels a day.The World Gold Council announced that gold demand rose by 18% in the third quarter of 2008 on safe-haven buying and Indian jewelry purchases (which were up 29% on the quarter). The fact that gold prices fell during the quarter was blamed on the mass selling of commodity indices, which include a gold component. Conversely, aggregate Gold ETF additions, which represent retail buying of gold in the financial markets, increased 7.5% in the quarter. In fact, gold prices have been quite strong recently in currencies besides the US dollar and has recently moved to new highs against the Euro. Also, China's central bank is considering hiking increasing gold reserves nearly seven-fold to spread risks in its huge foreign exchange holdings. Beijing is mulling a move to increase its reserves to 4,000 tonnes from the current 600 tonnes. China has emerged as the world's largest and fastest-growing holder of foreign exchange reserves, which totaled more than 1.9 trillion dollars at the end of September, according to the central bank. Clearly these are more indicators that the sharp sell-off in commodity prices has been driven by panicked asset liquidators and that, as this selling subsides, prices will resume their upward move. We see the same situation in the oil market as well, another point that argues in favour of buying Canadian resource stocks now. The bottom line from our point of view is that stock market valuations are at extremely low levels (even assuming a lengthy recession), prices have fallen at a faster pace than any point since the 1930s, stocks are more under-valued relative to bonds than they have been in over 20 years, expectations for future growth have come down, deflationary fears have risen, there is a tremendous amount of excess cash on the sidelines now and corporations are &amp;#8216;flush with cash,' investor sentiment is at bearish lows and volatility is at record highs; all of these are conditions present at significant market lows. "Strategy&amp;#8220;We continue to view current price levels in the stock market and corporate bond market as a substantial longer-term buying opportunity . Also, yields have now risen to such a degree that investors are being well paid to sit in stocks and wait for the turnaround; the yield on the Canadian stock market is well above the yield on 10-year bonds for one of the few times on record. We are comfortable owning resource stocks (which have been decimated in the current downturn but selling is starting to abate) as well as foreign, particularly US, multinational firms which have great earnings resilience, strong cash balances and will continue to benefit from a growing global economy. We remain underweight in the financial service industry but will watch the stocks as they fall back to within a potential buy area.&amp;#8221;Source: : J. Zechner Associates Inc.      ...
