NEW YORK: Wells Fargo &amp; Company yesterday slashed its dividend 85 per cent, a widely expected move the fourth-largest US bank said will save $5 billion a year.  Wells Fargo also said it plans $2bn in additional cost cuts this year, starting in the second quarter, but did not say where the cuts would come from. Spokeswoman Melissa Murray said the cuts do not include job reductions.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said it had 'strong' operating results in January and last month, and made $59bn of mortgage loans in that period, up from $50bn in the entire fourth quarter.  The bank lowered its quarterly dividend to five cents per share from 34 cents.   The reduction follows similar cuts in the last two weeks by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company, PNC Financial Services Group and US Bancorp.  Dozens of lenders are reducing or eliminating dividends to preserve capital to cover rising credit losses.   Bank of America Corporation has cut its quarterly dividend to a penny per share, while Citigroup eliminated its payout. 'It is necessary, given the continued deterioration in credit trends,' said Jon Fisher, a portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management. 'It looks like unemployment will get worse, and the housing market is not getting better.' Analysts are concerned Wells Fargo could face higher losses than it has projected from mortgages and other debt tied to its December 31 purchase of troubled Wachovia Corporation.  Wells Fargo's chief financial officer Howard Atkins said the dividend reduction will create 'a larger capital cushion in the near term to protect against a more adverse credit cycle if it occurs.' He said the savings should increase Wells Fargo's ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets, a key measure of financial strength, by four-tenths of a percentage point. The ratio was 2.86pc on December 31, below the 5pc and higher ratio that many analysts prefer.  Chief executive John Stumpf said the bank will 'return to a more normalised dividend level' as soon as practical and plans to repay the $25bn it took from the government's Troubled Asset Relief Programme 'at the earliest practical date.' The infusion, which requires Wells Fargo to pay dividends to the government, 'is generating a return for the US taxpayer at significant cost to the company,' Stumpf said. Wells Fargo also said its integration of Wachovia is on track, and that it still expects $5bn of annual cost savings. It also said merger-related costs should be lower than forecast. Wells Fargo bought Wachovia for about $12.5bn.
