Baltimore Business Journal - by Ryan Sharrow Staff  Media  Related News  M&amp;T Bank Corp. said Friday it will shed 521 jobs at Provident Bankshares Corp. as part of its pending $401 million acquisition of the Baltimore bank, the citys largest independent bank.  The cuts amount to 29 percent of Providents total work force. Those employees will be let go beginning May 23 and will be made over a 90-day period, M&amp;T spokesman Phil Hosmer said in an interview Friday. As part of the conversion, 1,305 Provident employees will join M&amp;T.  The cuts were made in largely duplicative positions that were non-customer-facing employees, Hosmer said  primarily support, administrative and operations jobs. The pink slips are the latest blow to a Greater Baltimore work force hit hard by the recession. Marylands unemployment rate of 5.8 percent is a 15-year high.  M&amp;T (NYSE: MTB) will pay $6.4 million in severance to the 521 employees losing their jobs. Payments will vary according to their tenure at Provident (NASDAQ: PBKS).  Workers who are losing their jobs will also get first preference for the 216 vacant jobs currently available throughout Buffalo, N.Y.-based M&amp;Ts network, Hosmer said. In addition, they will be offered assistance in finding a new career.  Provident shareholders are scheduled to meet on the merger April 8. The deal also needs regulatory approval.  Combined, the union will employee 4,000 workers in Maryland and will give M&amp;T the largest branch and ATM network in Baltimore and Washington, D.C., Hosmer said.  M&amp;T is still evaluating the impact the merger will have on the nearly 150 Provident branch locations and as well as the office space it leases, including its downtown Baltimore headquarters.  Overall, M&amp;T will gain $4.6 billion in deposits and $4.3 billion in loans from the deal. The acquisition will give M&amp;T the second-largest deposit share in Maryland  behind Bank of America (NYSE: BAC)  and will also triple its presence in Virginia.  Provident, launched in 1882, announced the $401 million stock-for-stock deal in December.  Provident shareholders get 0.17 shares of M&amp;T stock for each share of their own. The sale price is based on M&amp;Ts Dec. 16 stock closing price of $61.18.  
