NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Bank of America Corp. (BAC) Chief Executive   Kenneth Lewis  once referred to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch as 'the strategic opportunity of a lifetime.' He might now be reconsidering.  The Charlotte-based bank confirmed Friday it discovered a trading irregularity during a recent probe into Merrill Lynch's trading positions in London. BofA did not quantify how much money might have been lost.  The disclosure is the latest black eye for Lewis since he agreed to buy Merrill Lynch as the credit crisis flared last year. The agreement rescued the troubled brokerage from the kind of collapse that toppled Lehman Brothers, but has caused Lewis one headache after another since the Sept. 15 agreement was made.  And, analysts believe the soap opera that has entangled BofA since the merger shows no signs of ending. In fact, the culture clash within America's biggest bank only seems to be heating up. 'Opportunity of a lifetime? This is turning into the nightmare of a lifetime,' said Nancy Bush  , a banking analyst and founder of NAB Research. 'I don't think Lewis helps himself by not owning up to responsibility for this. The Street is looking for a mea culpa on his part.' The news has been nothing but negative since BofA completed its acquisition of Merrill on Jan. 1. Shares have plunged 75% during that time, with investors stunned that Merrill reported a wider-than-expected $15.8 billion loss during the fourth quarter.  The bank also came under fire after   John Thain  , former CEO of Merrill Lynch, made eleventh-hour bonus payments of $3.6 billion to Merrill employees before the BofA deal closed. The bonuses not only have caused friction as the two banks have integrated, but caused New York Attorney General   Andrew Cuomo  to launch an investigation into the matter.  Both Lewis and Thain have been paraded into Cuomo's offices in downtown Manhattan as part of a stream of subpoenas issued to executives. Seven more executives are on tap to give depositions in the coming weeks.  Meanwhile, dissatisfaction with BofA leadership has led the investment vehicle for seven labor unions to demand Lewis' replacement. CtW Investment Group, which manages 33 million shares for unions like the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, is expected to address Lewis personally at the bank's annual meeting on April 29 in Charlotte. 'Recent events have fatally undermined investor confidence in Bank of America, ' CtW Executive Director   William Patterson  wrote in a letter.  There is no indication that Lewis, 61, would step down from the company where he became CEO in 2001. Analysts believe Lewis still has a chance to prove to investors he's helping the bank right itself, especially when the company reports first-quarter results next month.  A spokesman for Bank of America declined to comment.   -By   Joe Bel Bruno  , Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4047; joe.belbruno@ dowjones.com
