CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- The financial collapse has hit the city known as Wall Street South.  For years, Bank of America Corp. and Wachovia Corp. helped turn Charlotte into a financial powerhouse. Now, the big banks have thrust it into the same predicament as the real Wall Street -- the city is losing thousands of jobs and an unquantifiable amount of prestige. Residents who invested heavily in the banks have seen their wealth dissipate and lifestyles change radically. 'It's kind of sad, disheartening because the banks have been the backbone of Charlotte for so long,' said Carl Clayton, a 55-year-old retired schoolteacher.  The loss of so many bank jobs is causing upheaval in other industries. Consumers who have been laid off or fear being out of work are curtailing their spending, forcing restaurants and retailers to close -- among them Morton's, a high-end steakhouse, and a 15-month-old Home Depot Design Center. Even some of Charlotte's lively nightclubs have shut their doors. 'There's a bit of a state of disbelief,' said Bob Morgan, president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. 'We are seeing things happen that no one else has contemplated before.' Charlotte remains the nation's second-biggest bank town by assets -- second to New York, and in front of San Francisco. But, Morgan said, 'we don't know what the city is going to look like once we emerge.' 'We do know that tremendous wealth has already been lost.' A big reason is the amount of banking shares owned by people who have worked for Wachovia, now owned by Wells Fargo &amp; Co., and Bank of America. Both have used their stock to compensate employees.  Bank of America's shares have been among the hardest hit among financial companies. The company has lost more than 56 percent of its value since it closed on its acquisition of investment bank Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. at the beginning of the year. The stock is down nearly 85 percent from a year ago.  Last year, before Wachovia was acquired by Wells Fargo, its shares slid 85 percent.  Clayton estimates that he has lost about $60,000 because of stock holdings in the two banks, along with other North Carolina banks, including BB&amp;T Corp. 'I had a lot of bank stock, but now it's gone,' Clayton said. 'What wealth I had is gone.' Residents and employees never expected such a downfall. Wachovia, once headquartered in Winston-Salem, N.C., joined the ranks of the top five national banks after it was acquired by Charlotte-based First Union Corp. in 2001. The combined company took Wachovia's name.  Banker Hugh McColl Jr. led NationsBank Corp. through about 70 acquisitions starting in the early 1980s. His biggest coup was San Francisco-based BankAmerica Corp., a financial institution bigger than NationsBank. He adopted the name and also moved the headquarters to Charlotte.  Some say Charlotte's troubles began in 2006, when Wachovia acquired mortgage lender Golden West Financial Corp. for roughly $25 billion at the height of the housing boom. With that purchase, Wachovia inherited a $122 billion portfolio of deteriorating mortgages, leaving the company with huge losses.  Charlotte residents were unnerved as they watched Wachovia falter and then be taken over by Wells Fargo in what amounted to a fire sale late last year.  At Bank of America, things were looking just as bleak. A series of bad bets in the investment-banking unit over the past year sank companywide profits, and as Bank of America completed its acquisition of struggling investment bank Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., shareholders watched its stock price slide to historic lows.  Both Wells Fargo and Bank of America have said they remain committed to Charlotte.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, has said Charlotte will be its eastern headquarters, though it remains unclear exactly what that means. The fear is that Wells Fargo, as it completes its integration of Wachovia, will keep cutting Charlotte positions. Wachovia has about 20,000 employees in the city.  Bank of America, meanwhile, with about 15,000 employees in Charlotte, is eliminating 35,000 jobs companywide.  Charlotte, with a population of nearly 700,000, is the 20th-largest city in the country. About 45 percent of the residents of its home county, Mecklenburg, make more than $50,000 a year, according to data supplied by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.  Charlotte relies on the banks for more than employment. Its lifestyle, and even its skyline has depended on Wachovia and Bank of America.  Wachovia sponsors the city's annual PGA tournament while Bank of America's name is on the football stadium and sponsors one of NASCAR's top auto races. Both fill towering downtown office buildings -- Wells Fargo, now by way of Wachovia, is building a 48-story headquarters and adjoining city arts campus. 
