Suffered a 90% drop in share priceAllowed Merrill to pay out $3.6 billion in bonuses, even as the firm was hemorrhaging moneyDenied any active role in determining the size of Merrill bonuses, a claim subsequently contradicted by documents that have emerged in the NY Attorney General's investigationFailed to timely disclose over $20 billion in pre-tax losses at MerrillFailed to invoke the Material Adverse Effects clause of the merger agreement to protect BAC shareholders from these losses  Removing Mr. Lewis is now a necessary prerequisite to restoring BAC's credibility with shareholders, regulators and the public. If the board refuses to remove Mr. Lewis, CtW will call on shareholders at Bank of America's Annual Meeting in April to vote against the re-election of Mr. Lewis, Lead Director Sloan and Corporate Governance Committee Chairman   Thomas Ryan  Full text of the letter below:  March 5, 2009  O. Temple Sloan  Lead Director  Bank of America   100 N. Tryon Street   Charlotte, North Carolina  Dear Mr. Sloan:  Recent events have fatally undermined investor confidence in Bank of America (BAC) Chairman and CEO   Kenneth D. Lewis  A year ago, we communicated grave concerns with BAC's failure to manage risk in a February 6, 2008  The board, however, subsequently allowed Mr. Lewis to take outsized, reckless risks by acquiring Merrill Lynch in the midst of severe financial uncertainty. After hastily arranging the ill-considered acquisition, management then failed to disclose Merrill's staggering fourth quarter losses prior to the shareholder vote on the merger. In addition, BAC's senior management was reportedly aware of Merrill Lynch's intent to distribute nearly $4 billion  Removing Mr. Lewis is now a necessary prerequisite to restoring BAC's credibility with shareholders, regulators and the public. If the board fails to remove Mr. Lewis prior to filing its 2009 annual meeting proxy this month, we will urge shareholders to join us in opposing Mr. Lewis' re-election and that of the independent directors most culpable for his continued employment.   The CtW Investment Group works with pension funds sponsored by unions affiliated with Change to Win, a coalition of unions representing 6 million members, to enhance long-term shareholder value through active ownership. These funds, together with public pension funds in which CtW union members participate, are substantial long-term Bank of America shareholders. At the time of our March 2008  Subsequent events suggest that neither the board nor management put adequate risk management practices in place: despite serious concerns with the Merrill acquisition voiced by numerous outside observers, the board supported Mr. Lewis' gamble, with devastating results. Whereas BAC had entered the September-October meltdown in relatively strong shape compared to peer institutions - having lost only about 40% of its January 2007  No Confidence in Mr. Lewis  Shareholders' loss of confidence in BAC stems from the announcement on January 16  BAC shareholders could have avoided these devastating losses had BAC either exercised its rights under the Material Adverse Effects clause or disclosed the losses to its shareholders prior to our voting on the merger. Mr. Thain has reportedly indicated that BAC had ongoing access to Merrill Lynch's daily profit and loss reports. Nevertheless, Mr. Lewis claims that he and his team were unaware of the scale of Merrill's losses until after the December 5  More recently, shareholders have learned that at essentially the same time as the merger agreement, BAC and Merrill Lynch entered into a previously undisclosed agreement according to which Merrill was able to issue bonuses from a pool of approximately $5.8 billion  These decisions have prompted shareholder litigation alleging breach of fiduciary duty. At minimum, they represent a failure of judgment on Mr. Lewis' part. Any one of these actions alone would justify Mr. Lewis' removal: he either knew the scale of Merrill's losses and failed to inform shareholders of them, or he was grossly negligent in failing to keep abreast of Merrill's deteriorating performance. Moreover, in allowing Merrill executives to extract $3.6 billion  The Board's Responsibility  While we believe shareholders are entitled to a full explanation of what the board knew, when it knew it, and whether it approved of Mr. Lewis' disastrous decisions, it is more important in our view that the board do what is necessary to restore investor confidence. Removing Mr. Lewis as Chairman and CEO is necessary first step in this challenging process.  Thank you for your timely consideration.  William Patterson  Executive Director  cc:   Ken Lewis  Thomas Ryan
