CtW Says B of A Must Disclose Secret Bonus Agreement Prior to Contested Director Vote      Agreement Shows B of A Abetted Merrill's $3.6 Billion Bonus Fiasco; SEC Investigation Sought  WASHINGTON, March 17 /PRNewswire/ -- With Bank of America (NYSE: BAC) expected to begin mailing its 2009 proxy statement later this week, the CtW Investment Group has urged the Securities and Exchange Commission to compel the bank to disclose its secret bonus Agreement with Merrill Lynch ('MER').  The undisclosed Agreement was uncovered by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's investigation into MER's decision to 'secretly and prematurely award approximately $3.6 billion in bonuses.'    'Public outrage over AIG's $165 million in bonuses reinforces shareholder anger at the $3.6 billion bonus fiasco perpetrated by BAC and MER last December,' said William Patterson, the Investment Group's executive director.  'It may be too late to recover the Merrill payouts, but shareholders can hold accountable the Bank of America directors responsible at the bank's upcoming director election.  The secret bonus agreement is critical to that evaluation.'    BAC has already filed a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC for its 2009 meeting, which is scheduled for April 29th in Charlotte.  In a letter to Shelly Parratt, Acting Director of the SEC's Division of Corporation Finance, Mr. Patterson wrote:  This Agreement is material to BAC's director election since it suggests that, contrary to management's claims, BAC was complicit in MER's extraordinary 2008 bonus payments, which are now the subject of Attorney General Cuomo's investigation.  And it takes on added significance since we recently informed BAC lead director Temple Sloan that we intend to oppose his re-election, that of Chairman and CEO Ken Lewis, and Corporate Governance Committee Chair Thomas Ryan at the 2009 annual meeting due to concerns relating to BAC's disastrous acquisition of MER.  Separately, the Investment Group also called for the SEC to investigate whether BAC violated federal securities laws by failing to disclose MER's large fourth quarter losses prior to the December 5, 2008 merger vote and again before the January 1, 2009 merger closing.  BAC only disclosed the losses after it received shareholder approval for the merger, allowed MER to prematurely pay $3.6 billion in bonuses via under the secret Agreement, and closed the merger.    In a letter to Robert Khuzami, Director of the SEC's Division of Enforcement, Mr. Patterson said, 'Given that the January 15 disclosure of the MER loss sent BAC's shares down 50 percent in three days, erasing $30 billion in shareholder value, the SEC has an obligation to determine when management first became aware of the loss.'    New York Attorney General Cuomo is already investigating similar matters to determine whether BAC and MER directors and officers violated New York's Martin Act.  'Given significant matters of federal law in question,' wrote Mr. Patterson, 'we believe it is time for the SEC to open a formal investigation and work cooperatively with the Attorney General.'  The CtW Investment Group works with pension funds sponsored by unions affiliated with Change to Win, a coalition of unions representing six million members.  These funds are substantial long-term BAC shareholders.  During the past thirteen months, the Investment Group has detailed its concerns regarding risk oversight, 2008 bonus payments and BAC CEO succession in various letters to the BAC and MER boards and in meetings with directors at each firm.       SOURCE  CtW Investment Group  Richard Clayton of Change to Win, +1-202-255-6433
