The company that owns most of Canary Wharf, London's totemic financial district, is dangerously close to breaching its banking covenants after the fall in commercial property prices.   The Morgan Stanley-backed Songbird said yesterday that it is now at material risk of breaking a clause in its loan from Citigroup that stipulates that its properties must be worth at least 87.5 per cent of the loan.   However, it is understood that Citigroup, which lent Songbird 888 million in a top-of-the-market refinancing of the business that allowed Morgan Stanley to profit from its initial investment many times over, will grant a waiver if covenants are breached. Songbird's board has hired NM Rothschild to advise it on a financial restructuring.   Songbird's admission of the problem resulting from the fall in the value of its investment in Canary Wharf - an area that once symbolised the resurgence in City work - will further hit confidence in the capital's battered financial services sector. It also indicates just how far prices of London office properties have fallen.   After a punishing 27 per cent writedown on the value of its property in Canary Wharf from 6.76 billion to 4.93 billion, Songbird reported pre-tax losses of 1.7 billion for 2008. It made a profit of 209 million in 2007.   Canary Wharf has been particularly hard hit as high-profile tenants such as Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch have gone bust or been taken over, leading to a fall in demand for offices in the financial district. The Wharf is facing a slew of tenants downsizing rental commitments or leaving when their lease break comes up.   Morgan Stanley is leaving a 345,500sqft office at 20 Cabot Square, ten years before its lease was due to expire, and moving all its London staff into its other Canary Wharf offices.   Bank of America is believed to be considering a move to the City in 2012, seven years before the end of its lease on its Canada Square offices, although these are not owned by the Songbird- controlled Canary Wharf Group. 
