Voting Commences this Week in B of A's Contested Director Election  WASHINGTON, March 26 /PRNewswire/ -- With voting in Bank of America's (NYSE: BAC - News) 2009 director election commencing this week, the CtW Investment Group today sent a letter to BAC shareholders calling on them to vote 'Against' Chairman and CEO Kenneth Lewis, Governance Committee chair Thomas Ryan and Lead Director O. Temple Sloan at the April 29th shareholder meeting. 'As Chairman and CEO, Mr. Lewis is responsible for an ill-advised acquisition of Merrill Lynch that transformed a bank well positioned to weather the financial crisis into one of its most costly casualties. Subsequent missteps have further compromised his credibility with investors and regulators,' wrote Bill Patterson, the Group's Executive Director, in the letter. 'With BAC's share price down 79% in six months and financial markets still unstable, BAC's board of directors urgently needs to recruit a CEO who can restore investor and regulatory confidence. Removing directors Lewis, Ryan and Sloan is the first step in this process. Mr. Sloan is Lead Director and Mr. Ryan is chair of the board committee responsible for CEO succession and director nominations. Together they bear primary responsibility for the board's failure to oversee and, when it became necessary given his costly missteps, replace Mr. Lewis. These missteps include:  negotiating a precipitous, risky and ultimately disastrous acquisition of Merrill at a moment of acute financial uncertainty based on minimal due diligence;failing to either monitor or disclose Merrill's rapidly deteriorating financial condition prior to the merger vote, and to disclose this deterioration and BAC's resulting need for additional federal assistance in the period between the merger vote and closing; andallowing Merrill to prematurely pay $3.6 billion in 2008 bonuses under a secret agreement and then denying BAC had legal authority over the bonuses in testimony to Congress.' The CtW Investment Group works with pension funds sponsored by unions affiliated with Change to Win, a coalition of unions representing six million members. These funds are substantial long-term BAC shareholders. For more than a year CtW has expressed concerns to BAC directors - in multiple letters and in a March 2008 meeting with Temple Sloan - with risk oversight, 2008 bonus payments and, most recently, the need for CEO succession.  A copy of the letter is available at www.ctwinvestmentgroup.com.
