WASHINGTON -- American International Group was on the brink of financial ruin late last year when the government seized control of the troubled insurance giant, according to Federal Reserve documents released Wednesday that provided greater insight into some of its emergency actions.   AIG had experienced 'a rapid and extreme liquidity shortage' and information 'indicated that the company faced the imminent prospect of declaring bankruptcy,' the Federal Reserve said in minutes of the Sept. 16 decision to provide a $85 billion loan to the company, in return for a nearly 80 percent ownership stake.   It marked the first of four bailouts for AIG. After the most recent one _ earlier this month _ government efforts to save the company now total more than $170 billion.   The release of minutes from some of the Fed's emergency actions last year come as the central bank is trying to be provide more information _ after the fact _ about its often closed-door deliberations.   The American public is angry over the string of bailouts for financial institutions, which has put billions of taxpayers' dollars at risk. Both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have demanded the Fed be more open.   AIG and other bailed-out companies, including Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have been deemed too big to fail by the government. A collapse of one or more of those globally interconnected firms would have had dire consequences on shaky financial markets at home and abroad, and would have deepened the U.S. recession, Fed officials have repeatedly warned. 'A disorderly failure of AIG was likely to have a systemic effect on financial markets that were already experiencing a significant level of fragility,' the Fed minutes said. Wachovia Corp. 'faced the immediate prospect of being unable to fund its operations,' another Fed document, dated Sept. 28 revealed. The struggling Charlotte, N.C.-based bank was eventually acquired by Wells Fargo in a roughly $12 billion deal.   On the Citigroup bailout in late November, the Fed observed that 'investors were becoming increasingly concerned about the company's prospects, which would threaten Citigroup's ability to continue to obtain funding.' At that time, the government agreed to shoulder hundreds of billions of dollars in possible losses at the stricken bank and to plow a fresh $20 billion into the company. Last month, the government said it would greatly increase its ownership stake in Citigroup. 
