RECENT bankruptcies have been filed by corporations familiar to the public including some American Icons: the Chicago Tribune Company, a chain of newspapers and WGN radio and TV stations; Pilgrim's Pride, a major poultry producer; Circuit City, the only national competitor to Best Buy; Sharper Image; and Linens 'n' Things, to name just a few.  The wave of defaults and bankruptcies started in mid-2007 just after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the growing number of mortgage defaults would not harm the U.S. economy seriously. Our regulatory, administrative and legislative officials closed their eyes to the problem. It was a bit like 'The Emperor Has No Clothes.' In the summer, two of Bear Stearns hedge funds experienced huge losses and were forced to dump assets. This trouble spread to others such as Merrill Lynch, J.P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. The signals were both louder and more frequent, but the administration's policy was 'less regulation is better regulation.' By January 2008, when it was obvious that Countrywide Financial Mortgage Company would collapse, the government brokered a deal for Bank of America to buy Countrywide for $4 billion. In March, Bear Stearns, the nation's fifth-largest investment bank collapsed and the Treasury Secretary brokered a deal for a takeover by J.P. Morgan.  The country's two largest holders of mortgages, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had more than 31 million mortgages. Both were failing and effectively were nationalized this past year by the U.S. Treasury, placing them in 'conservatorship.' Together, they lost more than $100 billion in the past year - half of that in the past three months.  During 2008's mid-summer, Lehman Brothers, the second-largest investment bank, started to fail. Lehman was viewed as 'to big to fail,' and expectations were that Treasury would broker a takeover deal like it did with Bear Stearns. Surprisingly, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson refused and Lehman failed.  This failure more than any other event, created a severe loss of confidence and a cloud of fear in both Wall Street and the American consumer. It has not been the same since.  By the end of 2008, AIG Corporation, the world's largest insurer, had lost $100 billion - $60 billion in the fourth quarter alone. The market worth of the company was only $1 billion.  The government has given AIG $150 billion in bailout money in trade for 79.9 percent ownership of the company.  Wall Street cut back on loans, almost to the point of not making any. Consumers cut back on spending. Industry delayed capital projects. Auto companies were facing bankruptcy.  The losses at the stock exchanges caused pension funds to lose 20 to 40 percent of their value. People wondered if their retirement funds would recover.  At the time of this writing there are more than 6 million people unemployed. There is at least an additional 5 million who are underemployed: they accepted a lesser-skilled job, frequently just to regain some health benefits. The ranks of the unemployed are growing each month.  From the market's high on Oct. 9, 2007, $8 trillion of wealth has been wiped out. American capitalism has been shaken to within an inch of its life.  Next Week: American Capitalism 6.3: Fixing the Great Recession.  - Dick Scamehorn, a longtime resident of Lancaster, is Ohio University's executive-in-residence emeritus and former president of Diamond Power.
