: Sales of automobiles in Pakistan have, reportedly, plummeted by 50 percent. This will have obvious repercussions on the auto as well as downstream industry with a consequent impact on employment levels and on the country's total productivity in weeks to come. The Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance, Shaukat Tarin, in an interview to the Business Recorder, has categorically stated that there will be no bailout package on lines similar to those adopted by the US government consisting of 14 billion dollars. One reason amidst several: because Pakistan government has no money for a bailout package. Vehicle sales had soared due to the foray of Pakistani banks into the field of consumer credit and the huge increase in car sales due to their leasing operations. It is relevant to note that the Advisor to the Prime Minister on Finance in his capacity as President and Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, in an advertising supplement carried by the New York Times in 2004, though not involving the paper's staff in the write-up, stated that 'Union Bank's superior financial performance is the result of a strategic plan to invest in a diversified product portfolio in consumer, corporate banking and the SME sector...the total loan portfolio on the banking side is 1.35 trillion rupees ($30 billion) of which only 10 percent is in consumer banking.' But for Pakistani banks, which have traditionally hesitated to extend credit to consumers, 10 percent of $30 billion is a significant amount. Unlike loans extended to corporations, with their capacity to delay payment of interest/principal based on estimates of future sales and, in several instances, on loan write-offs, the advent of consumer banking in Pakistan has been marked by a rise in interest rates directly impacting on ability to repay. The recent rise in interest rates agreed in the Letter of Intent (LoI) submitted by the government to the International Monetary Fund have impacted on the cost of borrowing capital in general thereby raising input costs; but has led to default by several consumers on their monthly car payments which, in turn, accounts for a dramatic decline in car sales. In the short term therefore the economy will witness job losses related to lower car sales however in the medium to long term unless and until the government reduces interest rates it is doubtful if the industry would be able to emerge from its current crisis. Significantly the LoI does note that 'a further increase in the discount rate will be considered at the time of the monetary policy statement scheduled for end-January 2009. However the discount rate will be raised earlier if the actual reserves for end-December 2008 fall short of the programmed monthly floors on the SBP's net foreign assets.' Or, in other words, it seems doubtful that the government will be able to reduce interest rates any time soon. Tarin in his capacity as the de facto Finance Minister must be aware that he may have to employ policies that maybe diametrically opposed to what he would have proposed as the President and CEO of Union Bank/Habib Bank/Citibank: while consumer portfolio is to be strengthened from the perspective of a bank focused on increasing its asset base; yet in the macroeconomic arena policies are required that would assist in reducing domestic consumption levels and raising savings rate so that funds can be diverted for investment purposes. Pakistan has one of the lowest saving rates in the region, a major factor responsible for our weak investment levels. 
