LONDON (SHARECAST) - Investors are seeking the relative safety of supermarket stocks after US bank JP Morgan identified food retailing as one of the safest bets in the current environment.   Following the impressive trading statement yesterday from Wm. Morrison, JP Morgan (JPM) has upped its price target for the company slightly to 320p from 310p.   JP Morgan sees Morrison's, Britain's number four supermarket in terms of sales volume, closing in on the number three player, J Sainsbury, though it has also nudged its price target on the latter higher too, from 300p to 310p.   JPM recommends an overweight position in Morrison's and has a neutral stance on Sainsbury, while it advises its clients to be underweight in market leader Tesco.   Its price target for Tesco has been trimmed to 290p from 300p. Shares in Marston's offer a short-term buy opportunity and are a long-term hold, broker KBC Peel Hunt reckons after the brewer and pubs owner's better than feared trading statement on Friday morning.   The broker is trimming its full-year profit before tax forecast by 3% to 67m, versus 69m previously. Earnings per share are expected to be 18.4p.   On the assumption that the board will recommend a dividend that is about twice covered by earnings, KBC is predicting a full year dividend of 9.5p, which would put Marston's on an eye-popping yield of 9.5%. "We do not regard Marston's as being at risk on securitised covenants at anything up to 10% LFL decline. Having renegotiated its bank debt repayment to 2013, it has no constraints here either," said KBC analyst Paul Hickman.   Cash-strapped housebuilder Barratt Developments should be added to the long list of companies reportedly queuing up to tap the market for funds, according to Citicorp.   The Financial Times reported Friday that dozens of British companies are preparing to issue fresh equity in coming weeks with bankers expecting more than 30bn to be raised this year through share offerings.   Citi reckons that Barratt's debt position will force it to be one of those issuing shares which, Citi predicts, would lead to "large-scale dilution to existing holders". The US bank has downgraded its view on Barratt from "hold" to "sell" and chopped the price target from 80p to 50p. 
