NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Australian government's package to help fund commercial property programs addresses the reality that foreign banks will withdraw funding as the financial crisis continues, Westpac Institutional Bank group executive Philip Chronican told Dow Jones Newswires on Friday.  Following his appearance on a panel to promote Australian investment interests in the U.S., Chronican said there's 'no hard evidence' so far of overseas banks cutting their existing credit lines.  But those that have received equity injections from their governments are coming under increased pressure to deploy their funds at home, he said. 'Informally we know that is happening,' Chronican said. That effect is clearest among the U.K. banks and some U.S. institutions, he said, but a number of European and Asian banks remain active in the Australian market.  Chronican's comments coincided with the announcement in Australia of an A$4 billion package to sponsor major projects in the domestic commercial property sector. The expense will be split between the government and the country's four leading banks, including Westpac. This initial commitment could also be expanded, via issuance of government guaranteed debt, to create up to A$30 billion of loanable capital.  Chronican disagreed that this backstop could exacerbate the withdrawal of foreign funds. 'The withdrawal will be occurring anyway,' he said. The government is simply ensuring that as that occurs, 'at least it doesn't have a severely disruptive influence on the market.' 'Australian banks would all feel that they're at the limit of what they'd be comfortable with' in terms of their exposure to the commercial property market, he said.  And real estate may not be the only sector that will suffer a loss of foreign funding. 'It's probably also true that banks are going to be withdrawing from the leveraged loan or corporate sector as well,' the executive said. But demand for credit is unlikely to be as strong in these areas - given a trend of deleveraging among Australian companies - and domestic banks should be able to meet it.  Chronican described corporate loan growth at Westpac as moderate. 'We've got a healthy pipeline, but we're also seeing a lot of existing borrowers seeking to pay down debt,' he said. Though he reckons the Australian banking sector has a good chance of coming through this period 'in reasonable shape,' it's too early to say whether further stimulus will be needed down the track. 'It's impossible to know what's enough,' the banker said. 'We don't know how severe the recession outside of Australia is going to be.' Speaking on a panel earlier to promote the country's economic performance, Australian Treasurer   Wayne Swan  pointed out that the double-A ratings of the country's top four banks rank them among the world's most creditworthy. Last week S&amp;P reaffirmed Australia's triple-A sovereign rating but noted that the 'most identifiable risk' to Australia's ratings would be a significant weakening in the credit quality of the country's banking sector.  Along with their peers overseas, Australian banks have suffered heavy stockmarket losses in recent months. The four leading institutions have all broken multi-month lows on the Australian exchange, with Westpac finishing Friday down 5.9% at A$14.60.   -By   Emily Barrett  , Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2248; emily.barrett@ dowjones.com   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 01-23-091627ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
