It's all about timing. Clients of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, who bailed out of Intermediate Capital only last week after the broker downgraded the specialist finance house because of deteriorating conditions in the leveraged loans market, were yesterday thanking their lucky stars.  The shares crashed to 382p on a profits warning before closing 160p, or 28 per cent, down at a low of 414p. A year ago the stock was changing hands at 16.  The company, which specialises in providing mezzanine finance - hybrid capital halfway between debt and equity for buyouts - is suffering because the leveraged buyout market remains firmly shut due to the credit crunch.  Narrow miss: Bank of America/Merrill Lynch bailed out of Intermediate Capital last week ahead of a shares crash  IC now warns that some of its weaker investments have deteriorated sharply in recent months and provisions against bad debts will be 'noticeably higher' in the second-half of the year.  Some 13 per cent of its 3.1billion portfolio is now on its watch-list of troubled companies and it has had to cobble together a dedicated team to manage these assets.  In an unsuccessful attempt to reassure shareholders, IC added that its balance sheet remained robust with shareholder funds of 901million at the end of December, and that it continues to operate 'comfortably' within its banking agreements.  But Citigroup remains cautious and forecasts earnings per share of 62p, miles below consensus of around 100p.  Other financials took Monday's strong Barclays-led recovery a modest stage further. Still reflecting management's reassuring words that the bank is well funded and profitable, buyers chased Barclays up to 102.1p before profit-taking left the close only 1.3p up at 90p.  Dealers heard that Bob Diamond, head of Barclays Capital, gave an 'underwhelming' presentation to Cazenove late on Monday.  Royal Bank of Scotland rallied 1.2p further to 15.7p and Lloyds Banking Group 1.9p to 67.1p.  Lacking inspiration and fearing that struggling car components maker GKN (3p better at 77p) will today swell the number on the dole, the Footsie succumbed to profit-taking after Monday's impressive 156 point gain. It had lost 78 points before lunch but then picked up slowly to finish 14.6 points off at 4,194.41.  Wall Street shrugged off news that US consumer confidence fell to a record low in January and retrieved a 32 point deficit and trade 56 higher.  Plumbing giant Wolseley slumped 21p more for a two-day fall of 106p at 180p on further consideration of Monday's profits warning. Analysts are adamant that a fundraising must be on the cards as the group is in danger of breaching loan agreements with its banks by the end of the year. Rights issue talk also prompted a fall of 13p to 254p in investor 3i.  After copper fell from an eight week high amid speculation demand from builders and car makers is declining faster than refiners can trim output, miner Xstrata declined 35p to 685p.  Lloyd's insurer Chaucer jumped 5p to 47p before late confirmation of an all-share merger with UK insurer Novae. Amlin, which has often been mentioned in the same breath as Chaucer and could yet launch a counter-bid, closed 7p up at 372p.  Department store chain Debenhams edged up p to 31p following a meeting between its management and Singer Capital Markets. Analyst Matthew McEachran described it as 'reassuring' and said management were pleased with the consumer response to transitional spring fashion ranges. Although the 900million debt is an obstacle, it is working hard to take leverage off the agenda. The May repayment bullet is already set aside, but the next 150million is then not due until May 2010. The shares are oversold.  Fears it is on the verge of rolling out its second profits warning in three months, left Cookson nursing a 12p fall at 85p. Lonrho edged up to 5p after Collins Stewart lifted its target price to 30p from 25p.  Kalahari Minerals firmed 1p to 43p after reporting the highest gradgranite-hosted uranium deposit in Namibia. Norseman Gold added 0.6p to 2.875p after a stock overhand was cleared by Ocean Equities.  Regional newspaper group Johnston Press improved p to 8p after three directors bought stock at 8.16p.  Healthcare Locums, the UK's largest specialist health and social care staffing company, put on 1p to a high of 136p. Joint broker Fairfax says the stock is undervalued and has a price target of 200p.    Read later  Email to a friend  Share this article:  Comments (0)  No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts?  Click to rate     Rating  Add your comment  Name: Email: Your email address will not be published Town &amp; Country: Your comments:  Make text area biggerYou have 1000 characters left.  Remember me - this will save you having to type out your name, location and email address when you next leave a comment.  Terms &amp; conditionsClear Submit Content  
