When Google Apps was launched in 2006, the Fortune 500 company put its considerable Internet heft behind Web-based applications and brought with it the considerable attention that follows most anything the technology behemoth does.  But for Atlanta companies already in the trenches of Internet-based applications providing what is called software as a service (SaaS) or cloud computing Googles offering just put a well-known name on an innovation they were already successfully building businesses around.  That trend is expected to continue in 2009 as more companies look for their piece of a nebulous trend.  When Patrick Clements co-founded Atlanta-based bigWebApps Inc. in 2001, SaaS was an emerging concept and his company was one of a growing number of what were referred to as application service providers (ASP). Back then, it was a tough sell. We were selling ASP solutions to people who really didnt understand the Internet and see the value, said Clements, also the companys CEO. It has been an evolution over the last seven years. Weve seen fantastic growth in the last 18 months to two years in people adopting the SaaS model. Today, bigWebApps serves clients in 43 states and nine countries and sees 100,000 active logins to its software each day, results that hint at the growing popularity of enterprises turning to SaaS for a variety of needs, from managing a far-flung sales force and disparate technology assets to invoicing and property management. When you talk about cloud computing, there is no notion of where the physical computer is, said John Willis, an Atlanta technology author and blogger who follows SaaS. There are a lot of legitimate concerns, but 2009 will be the year of enterprise in the cloud as CIOs, CTOs and CEOs start hearing the stories of how it redefines how we do things. Earlier this month, Willis presided over CloudCamp Atlanta, a one-day conference he helped organize that drew about 200 people to nearly two-dozen sessions exploring cloud computing and providing a venue to exchange ideas about the technology. The event, part of a series of similar conferences held across the country, took place at Georgia Techs Advanced Technology Development Center, which also hosts a monthly cloud computing networking session. Atlanta gets slammed for not being a technology town. But when I went to these meet-up groups, one participant right after the other said they were already using cloud services. So I wanted to get the enterprise people involved in this so at the end of the night, they walked away with a better understanding of what cloud computing is all about, Willis said. SaaS has particular appeal for small and midsized businesses for providing scalable technology solutions without the often steep expense of purchasing software and hiring an IT staff. But increasingly Fortune 500 companies are tuning in, said Andy Thomas, president and COO of Virtual Premise, an Atlanta-based software company for real estate management. Its client roster includes Bank of America Corp., United Parcel Service Inc. and American Express Co. Our company has to ... make sure that software is doing what it is supposed to do and improve and enhance it as well, Thomas said. We are the company that takes the call when something is not performing. The incentive for us to deliver is extremely high. We either do it or go out of business. Strict auditing reviews and security protocols have comforted potential clients who in the past might be wary of housing critical data outside of their direct control. But an economy mired in recession also highlights how SaaS benefits the bottom line, said Greg Smith, who founded Alpharetta-based Advectis Inc. in 2000 to offer an online solution to the mortgage industry for the reams of paper created in closing mortgages. In 2007, the company was acquired as a wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox Mortgage Services, where Smith remains as a vice president. SaaS is taking more and more market share because it is a more effective way to deliver a software solution to a client, Smith said. It more closely mirrors the cyclical nature of the business. SaaS products can be leveraged easily and more quickly than in-house upgrades and installations. Software as a Service (SaaS) refers to Internet-based applications and services that dont require users to own the infrastructure. It is sometimes called cloud computing for providing services accessible anywhere with a single point of access outside of a traditional business infrastructure. Clients pay a monthly or yearly subscription fee to access the software, which ranges from office products to inventory management with the ability to configure the application to serve a particular business. Off-site hosting and regular software enhancements are included. SaaS offers a lost cost of entry and allows clients to avoid capital expenditures by consuming resources as a service paid for as it is used. SaaS providers often allow clients onsite to study their internal controls and security procedures and should confirm that a provider undergoes an SAS 70 audit, which is a widely recognized auditing standard for control processes and activities. Clients should also ask if their data is housed in a state-of-the-art collocation facility, its security procedures, level of data encryption and access to backups. 
