Sydney versus Melbourne. It's a hardy perennial topic and every so often the debate is reignited by a big company, a senior executive or an industry association that ponders which city is better equipped and located to do business in - and from.  The latest episode has surfaced in a roundabout way: Cameron Clyne, the newly arrived  chief executive of the Melbourne-based National Australia Bank was reported in this newspaper as planning to move his office to the group's Sydney complex.  Acutely aware of the consternation this would cause, NAB was quick to rebut the claim, which we were happy to clarify even though the bank's initial response was carefully worded to reflect the fact that Clyne, who lives in Sydney, will be spending at least one day a week working in his George Street office near Circular Quay.  To most outsiders, such a pattern of work seems eminently sensible. And few would be surprised if Clyne was to spend even more of his time here, despite the practical hurdles that might arise with his support staff 1000 kilometres away.  NAB is, after all, the fifth largest ASX-listed company by market capitalisation in the country, Australia's third largest bank by the same measure, among the nation's biggest employers and has a significant presence in the most populous state, which happens to be the most important for economic output.  What's more, the bank describes itself as an international financial services organisation with businesses in the US, Britain and New Zealand as well as an institutional banking and capital markets division that operates globally.  Throw in the fact that most of its institutional, and presumably small, shareholders are in NSW, along with the investment analysts (to say nothing of the financial media), and there are good reasons for Clyne and the rest of his organisation to spend more time in Sydney.  If history is anything to go by, NAB could argue it is more of a NSW entity than a Victorian one, given half of its corporate family tree is rooted in the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, which was founded in 1834.  But does that make the case for NAB to move lock, stock and bunker from Melbourne and cut its historical ties in Victoria that date back to the founding of the original National Bank of Australasia in 1858?  Arguably not. But it does raise the issue of whether it matters in these globally minded days where a chief executive is based or how much of their working week (and life) they spend in any particular place - especially if the company has an international focus.  Let's look at three of Clyne's peers in the top 10 ASX companies.  Marius Kloppers, at the Melbourne-based BHP Billiton, is no stranger to the pointy end of aircraft given the global spread of his group's resources businesses. Like Clyne, he is a big family man and tries to spend as much time close to the nest as possible - and that includes working from home.  Next on the list is the 'I've-been-everywhere' man, Sol Trujillo. His executive suite is also in Melbourne, but as we know, the Telstra chief executive spends a fair proportion of his corporate year away from his office and out of the country.  Trujillo can no doubt argue his company does a fair bit of international business, and indeed it does have a few overseas investments - in China, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the like. They're no bigger than the investments of, say, NAB, but enough to keep Sol on the international road and well away from Melbourne.  Then there's the best comparison to Clyne, the boss of ANZ bank, Michael Smith, whose $32 billion company is based just down the road from NAB's HQ.  A former head of HSBC's huge Asian operations in Hong Kong, and no stranger to international locations, Smith has stated his ambition to turn ANZ into a 'super-regional bank' with operations stretching from Australia to China and across South-East Asia to India.  The implication of such expansion is that ANZ's Melbourne HQ will become less relevant or important as the bank expands geographically and as Australia becomes less of a profits powerhouse for it. Smith can now be found as often in Shanghai as in the windy city.  Clyne is likewise ambitious enough to want to overhaul NAB's strategic direction - and keen to make the change as soon as possible. Melbourne is as good a place to start as any, particularly given NAB has its headquarters there, but he could do the job as well from Sydney or anywhere elsewhere for that matter.  
