Article from:   The Australian  GIVEN the Government's track record on financial market reform, it's no wonder a strong sense of caution surrounds the plan to create a credit market funding vehicle.  The plan, now in the hands of the Treasury in Canberra, will ask the major retail banks to deliver $500 million each.  That contribution will be matched by government funds, but there are doubts that this will be sufficient, not to mention whether it is really needed.  Estimates vary greatly as to the size of the funding black hole that could be left as foreign banks retreat from the domestic market.  Kevin Rudd has floated a figure of $75 billion worth of corporate debt to be refinanced over the next year, but some observers think that is on the low side.  UBS bankers estimate loans worth $90 billion are up for negotiation, of which Australian banks will only be able to pick up $50 billion. The shortfall if the foreign banks do leave this market will be $40 billion. This is no doubt a challenging issue for corporates that have debt.  However, Australian banks are examining whether they have the capacity to pick up the potential shortfall. They point out there is no certainty there will be a lending shortfall.  The majors are pretty cashed up, as a result of weighing into global capital markets in the final months of last year.  New National Australia Bank boss Cameron Clyne reckons, with this fresh capital, NAB would be sitting on about $1 billion in spare cash.  The other banks are also in a pretty good position, but their willingness to participate varies.  NAB has been the driving force in lobbying for a deal, with most of the work done by Clyne and his sidelined executive Ahmed Fahour. Clyne was deliberately vague this week, revealing only that there were only 'ideas' as to how the fund would be constructed, with no precise details on the role of regulators.  The process is clearly more advanced than that. The prime minister, the treasurer and the finance minister don't put such matters on the public agenda if they are just at the ideas stage.  Of the Australian banks, NAB and Westpac -- also involved in discussions in Canberra -- probably have most to lose if a funding black hole does appear.  NAB has a strong commercial property portfolio and, while it is not keen to become a fallback wholesale lender of last resort, it is understood to have identified opportunities. It is proceeding case by case. Its commercial property portfolio in Victoria may be full, but it could be keen to lend some more in Perth.  The situation is similar for Westpac. It has its hands full managing corporate disasters. Don't mention ABC, Allco and the like to Gail Kelly, as she's well aware of the losses sitting on the bank's books.  ANZ is thought to be unenthused by the plan, but ready to kick into the cash, if only to keep on the Government's good side.  Commonwealth Bank will be forced to submit as well.  There are some doubts as to whether the foreign bank exodus will be as bad as many predict.  There's no doubt international financiers will pull back because a number are battling to stay alive at home and consequently are not very interested in minnow markets such as Australia.  It's no surprise that Halifax Bank of Scotland (HBOS) and its rival, Royal Bank of Scotland, are scaling back Australian lending. Those two are among the largest players in commercial property financing.  The syndicated loan allocation has changed in recent years, with the role of US banks reduced. Their market share in loans has slid from 14 per cent in 2007 to just 6 per cent in the past year.  Given the woes of Citi and its rivals, their activity in Australia will no doubt slide.  The story is similar for the Europeans. In 2007 their stake was 34 per cent, but last year it slipped to 28 per cent, and that was before most of the bad news emerged globally.  Deutsche Bank's market analysis shows the burden is being picked up already by the domestic majors. Their stake has edged up from 35 per cent to 50 per cent.  A problem for the Government is that it does not have much control of foreign banks located here. Political pressure can be applied to the Australian institutions, but not to their overseas peers.  The international banks and the Government are already partly at odds over the botched introduction of the banking guarantee, which initially caused a large outflow of deposits from the foreign institutions.  The response of the investment banks to the Government's plans has been mixed. There are concerns that the Government may become a lender of last resort.  All governments have a poor track record in picking winners.  Obviously, the banks will be applying their credit assessment skills and knowledge, but the role of the Government in the selection of lending is not yet clear.  The worst-case scenario that could emerge from this plan is that corporates that should fail are propped up at the expense of strong business.  As harsh as it may seem, it is a natural part of the business and economic cycle that firms that are no longer profitable or viable should fail.  So far, corporate collapses have not been as numerous as might have been expected. However, companies that once were bluechips are being kept alive when they should not be.  
