BROKERS and institutional investors are bracing for an avalanche of profit warnings this week as companies finalise accounts to the end of December.  The Australian share market slumped by more than 30 per cent in the last six months of 2008 and that means all companies holding listed stocks will have to report losses on the carrying value of investments.  A by-product of the stockmarket meltdown is that many large companies with maturing workforces such as Telstra might have to tip more cash into company-backed superannuation schemes to address unfunded staff entitlements.  This is a particularly important issue for companies about to embark on redundancy programs.  Brokers are expecting listed property trusts and fund managers to account for most of the profit warnings because their asset bases are most exposed to the volatility in investment markets.  Companies such as AMP, Stockland, Mirvac and Downer EDI are among the long list of companies that might have to issue earnings alerts.  Banks with December 31 balance dates such as Commonwealth Bank, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank might also have to reveal material changes in their first half earnings.  'This could be a very tough week for the ASX,' said EL &amp; C Baillieu's head of research, Ivor Ries.  CBA, which has one of the largest funds management businesses, might have to absorb bigger than announced losses on investments.  The bank's chief executive Ralph Norris has already signalled the group will take at least $2.5 billion of writedowns on exposures to collapsed borrowers such as ABC Learning and Allco Finance Group.  The economic downturn is also likely to have triggered a spike in non performing loans among small business customers.  Bendigo has direct exposure to collapsed investment scheme operator Environinvest.  Investors will also be looking out for announcements from leading miners all of which have had to deal with sliding commodities prices.  Mr Ries said any company holding listed investments would have to write down carrying values to reflect recent market falls.  Leighton Holdings earlier this month was the first company to disclose the bottom line impact of its equity-linked investments.  The engineering and construction group said on January 5 that the sliding stockmarket would wipe $170 million from its interim profit.  James Falkiner, the principle of hedge fund manager, Falkiner Global Investors, said that the 'street-smart' companies had already flagged lower earnings to investors.  'My guess is that about 20 per cent of the profit warnings were announced in one form another before the end of December,' he said.  'But there are many more companies that are going to have to come clean and unfortunately some will be punished for trying to gild the lilly.'  
