Article from:   The Australian  CENTRO Properties Group securities has been placed in a trading halt, with the group expected to announce that a restructure, which includes a $4billion debt deadline extension for three years, has been given the go-ahead.  Centro Retail Trust has also been placed in a trading halt, and released a statement yesterday saying the securities would resume trade after the announcement surrounding the outcome of negotiations on the extension of finance facilities or until Monday, January 19.  An initial one-month debt extension for both Centro Properties and Centro Retail expired yesterday.  On December 16, Centro Properties announced financiers had extended a deadline to pay back $5.05 billion for a month and agreed on a rescue plan that effectively gives them ownership.  The rescue plan involved giving Centro until December 2011 to pay back $4 billion worth of debt, while the remaining $1.05 billion owing would be replaced by a hybrid security maturing in seven years, with the potential for conversion into ordinary stapled securities.  The deal means Centro will effectively be owned by its financiers. Analysts believe that, in essence, the deal struck in December means the banks will simply have more time to break the company up and sell it off piecemeal.  Centro is involved in 777 shopping centres in Australia, New Zealand and the US and has so far made more than $400 million from asset sales.  It owes its billions of dollars worth of debt to a syndicate of 23 lenders -- five US banks, 10 US insurance companies and an Australian syndicate of lenders. The Australian syndicate includes the Commonwealth Bank, which holds the largest secured position, NAB, ANZ, Germany's WestLB, BNP Paribas, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp, JPMorgan and Royal Bank of Scotland.  A deadline to pay back the $5.05 billion has been extended five times since the shopping centre owner's high gearing level brought the company to its knees amid the credit crunch over a year ago.  In December 2007, it admitted it had been unable to refinance $3.9 billion worth of maturing debt, slashed profit forecasts and froze withdrawals from two of its managed funds.  Securities dived dramatically as a result.  Securities of Centro Properties and Centro Retail securities last traded at 12c and 11c respectively.  
