- SAS, an official sponsor of the American Marketing Associations Mplanet 2009, will be showcasing SAS Customer Intelligence solutions at the conference in Orlando, FL, on Jan. 26-28. SAS comprehensive suite of top-ranked solutions spans the entire customer-focused marketing process including campaign management, cross-sell/up-sell, customer experience analytics, customer retention, customer segmentation, e-mail marketing, event-driven marketing, campaign optimization, marketing mix analysis, marketing performance management, real-time decision management and Web analytics.  Mplanet attendees will also enjoy a fun and educational activity in SAS booth (#87 and 88) as SAS hosts handwriting analysis expert Ruth Holmes. While SAS provides insights hidden in customer data, Holmes analysis reveals personal insights hidden in handwriting.  SAS Customer Intelligencesolutions enable companies to deepen customer insights, choreograph customer interactions and continuously improve the organizations marketing performance. Customers worldwide using SAS to support customer initiatives include 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, DeutschlandCard, The Dow Chemical Co., First Citizens Bank, Grupo Santander, Hartford Life, Swisscom, US Bank, Vodafone Australia and Wolters Kluwer.  About SAS  SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and the largest independent vendor in the business intelligence market. Through innovative solutions delivered within an integrated framework, SAS helps customers at more than 45,000 sites improve performance and deliver value by making better decisions faster. Since 1976 SAS has been giving customers around the world The Power to Know. SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries.  indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright  2009 SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.  For Email Marketing you can trust  Search Our News Using Google Search  Can't find what you want? Try using Google:  
