(BUSINESS WIRE) -- FAF Advisors, Inc. today announced the financial positions for the following closed-end funds for the month of December 31, 2008. Net investment income and distribution information for the month ended December 31, 2008: Financial positions for the month ended December 31, 2008: Financial positions for the month ended December 31, 2007: Financial positions for the month ended December 31, 2006: (1) NAVs are priced as of the close of business on the month-end and year as indicated above. (a) These distributions were declared on November 21, 2008, had a December 1, 2008, ex-dividend date, and were paid on December 17, 2008, to shareholders of record on December 3, 2008. (b) Calculated by dividing preferred distributions paid during the month by the number of common shares outstanding. (c) Based on a three-month average. (d) Accumulated undistributed net investment income is reflected in a fund's net asset value. Any reduction of this amount will reduce net asset value penny-for-penny. (e) The distribution includes an estimated $0.0620 from net investment income and $0.0030 return of capital. (f) The distribution includes an estimated $0.0550 from net investment income and $0.0050 return of capital. (g) The distribution includes an estimated $0.0625 from net investment income and $0.0025 return of capital. (h) The distribution includes an estimated $0.0700 from net investment income and $0.0025 return of capital. (i) The difference between net assets and total assets for XAA, MXA, and MXN is primarily due to the issuance of preferred stock; net assets reflect common stock only. For ASP, BSP, CSP, SLA, and MRF, the difference is primarily due to the funds' use of borrowings. The aforementioned financial data is unaudited. It has, however, been obtained from sources deemed reliable. The fund's current and cumulative distributions paid this fiscal year are estimated from the following sources: net investment income, net realized gains and return of capital. Distribution estimates comprised of return of capital do not necessarily reflect the fund's investment performance and should not be confused with 'yield' or 'income'. The amounts reflected in this release are only estimates are not being provided for tax purposes; actual amounts will depend upon the fund's investment experience during the year and may be subject to change based on tax regulations. The final character of the distributions will be reported on Form 1099-DIV for federal income tax purposes. The funds' investment advisor, FAF Advisors, Inc., is based in Minneapolis, MN and is a subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association (NA). FAF Advisors provides investment management services to individuals and institutions, including corporations, foundations, pension funds, public funds, and retirement plans, and had combined assets under management of more than $103 billion as of September 30, 2008. NA is a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) . Visit us on the web at usbank.com. Investment products, including shares of closed-end funds, are not obligations of, or guaranteed by, any bank, including U.S. Bank National Association or any U.S. Bancorp affiliate, nor are they insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board, or any other agency. An investment in such products involves investment risk, including possible loss of principal. SOURCE: FAF Advisors, Inc. 
