: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Rachel Hewitt  IRISH media conglomerate Independent News &amp; Media has abandoned the sale of its stake in APN News &amp; Media, after last month denying the sell-off had stalled.  INM, which is 28 per cent owned by media tycoon Tony O'Reilly, said crumbling credit markets made it difficult for potential buyers to finance an 'appropriate' bid, despite 'significant interest' in the 39.1 per cent stake.  APN shares fell to $2.01 on the news, before closing down 8 at $2.07.  INM last month denied it was struggling to find buyers for the stake.  It said the process remained on track, despite suggestions advisers Goldman Sachs JBWere and ANZ Bank were having difficulty drumming up interest.  The cash-strapped group had planned to use proceeds from the sale of APN to help reduce debt of about $1.4 billion ($A2.8 billion).  Citi media analyst Digby Gilmour said he was not surprised by the outcome.  He said it was 'very difficult' to see a competitive bid emerging for the stake, with the liquidity of credit markets continuing to tighten amid an increasingly uncertain earnings outlook for media companies.  'INM have come out and said because of credit markets the various unsolicited bids haven't been at a level that they find acceptable,' he said.  'I think they're right, credit markets (are a factor), but I also think it's very difficult with such earnings uncertainty to see a competitive bid scenario from any of the trade buyers in the Australian or New Zealand media market.'  The media sector has been battered by the economic slowdown, with a weakened advertising market.  EL&amp;C Baillieu senior analyst Ivor Ries said it would have been extremely challenging for INM to find a buyer in the current climate.  'There is not a lot of demand around for newspapers at the moment,' Mr Ries said. 'It's very difficult to get bank finance for any kind of acquisition at the moment, and I imagine trying to get bank finance to purchase a chain of newspapers would be almost impossible.'  The failed sale is the latest blow for Sir Tony who, with his brother-in-law, control about 60 per cent of collapsed manufacturer Waterford Wedgwood.  The billionaire reportedly invested $400 million into the china and crystal maker over five years.  The APN board yesterday said it was pleased to continue its association with INM, spanning more than 20 years.  
