THE market crisis has driven down the value of Commonwealth Bank's funds business, as millions pour out of managed accounts.  Commonwealth, Australia's second largest bank, revealed yesterday that its funds business -- mostly linked to Colonial First State -- endured a torrid December quarter.  The value of funds under administration and funds under management plunged by 12 per cent because of market volatility.  The outflow does not affect the capital position of Commonwealth and is not linked to the broader performance of the bank.  'It was due to the fall in investment markets and the outflow of short-term cash mandates,' Commonwealth secretary John Hatton said.  'Retail net flows for the quarter were a negative $749 million due to deteriorating investment markets and the long-term run-off of legacy products,' he said.  The downturn in the funds is thought not to be closely linked to the Government's bank guarantee, introduced in the quarter.  There was, however, a marked reduction of $7.6 billion in Commonwealth's value of wholesale funds 'primarily due to the outflow of short-term cash mandates'.  The fall was attributed to wholesale money managers shifting cash out of the bank's wholesale funds.  Commonwealth shares fell yesterday by nearly 6 per cent in savage selling across the sector.  Wealth managers were also targeted in the selling, which was partly attributed to the Government's plan to reduce the fee structure for superannuation funds.  The Government has not announced a time line on the introduction of the scheme, which industry observers say will hit the funds' revenue streams.  Commonwealth's results compound the poor performance of the funds management and superannuation sectors, which have been crippled by the global financial crisis.  The credit crunch has so far wiped $250 billion from the value of super, with balanced funds losing up to 20 per cent of their value.  The stock market slump means that total super earnings over the past two years have evaporated.  
