Even before the first presidential debate kicks off on Friday, I am already reminded of Ronald Reagan and his memorable line during the debate with Walter Mondale in 1984, "I will not make age an issue of this campaign. I am not going to exploit, for political purposes, my opponent's youth and inexperience." That line resonates today not so much because of the age difference between the two top candidates but because of the youth and inexperience demonstrated repeatedly by Barack Obamas staff and advisors. When Barack Obama chose to go on vacation in Hawaii in the middle of his historic run for the White House, we were stunned -- thinking this move was indicative of bad advice or supreme over confidence. Yogi Berra could have told youthful candidate Obama and his staff, It ain't over till it's over. When Russia invaded South Ossetia, Abkhazia and U.S. ally and NATO aspirant Georgia during the Obama vacation, John McCain had a quick public statement to deliver. Reporters in Hawaii watching Senator Obama and waited. And waited. And waited. The decision to pass over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and her hard won 18 million primary voters -- and many undecided women -- smacked of bad advice, low self esteme or arrogance. Mr. Obama seemed to be saying, I can win without her. Senator McCain couldnt wait to show the world that he wasnt afraid of a woman on his ticket -- and he even looked energized when Sarah Palin seemed to overshadow him on the stump. We watched carefully as Mr. Obama made his world tour, visiting heads of state and soldiers. We watch with interest. But when he bypassed an opportunity to visit with war wounded American Soldiers and Marines at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany; but did have time to address a throng of German citizens with no stake in America at a rock concert-like environment, we were perplexed. Then the Obama staff blamed the miscue on the Pentagon in a kind of childish We really wanted to go but the Pentagon wouldnt let us. As a former congressional staffer to a member of the Ways and Means Committee and one who served in key Pentagon staffs several times, I was perplexed. Maybe we can supply Mr. Obama and his staff with the phone number for the Secretary of Defense? Many senators have called the Secretary to cut through smaller red tape than the complexity of seeing wounded American fighting men in the hospital. When General Wesley Clark referred to John McCain as a rider in his combat aircraft shot-down in war, we paused for a moment to ask, Would a U.S. General and Rhodes Scholar really refer to a combat pilot that way? The remark was either an ugly mistake on General Clarks part or the brainchild of some political staffer that should have been ignored and dismissed. At the September 11, 2008 memorial ceremony at Ground Zero in New York City, television cameras recorded that Senator Obama was delivered way to early to the event by his staff car. Thats not a terrible crime. But anyone who watched the event could see strain and nervousness in Barack Obamas face and every move -- juxtaposed to a cool, somber and respectful John McCain. Youth and inexperience can be great, but staffs working toward and hoping for positions in the White House should be on a steady course of learning and professionalism. Earlier this week, Barack Obamas vice presidential running mate Joe Biden took umbrage with a Team Obama campaign ad critical of John McCain for his lack of keyboard experience -- which many have documented as the result of war wounds and Hanoi Hilton torture and maltreatment. When Katie Couric of CBS brought the ad up, Joe Biden said, I thought that was terrible, by the way. Then he added, I didnt know we did it and if I had anything to do with it, wed have never done it. Good staffs prevent seasoned people from blurting out the truth, especially people with a record and reputation for doing just that. Team Obama, if it never knew this, should have instituted a damage pre-emption squad after Senator Biden said Hillary Clinton would have been a better vice presidential pick than me. When the staff that criticized John McCain for his lack of computer skills put out a press release referring to AIG as the American Insurance Group instead of by its correct name, we thought, So the masters of the universe and the computer dont have time to use Google? We expected Mr. Obama and his huge, self-congratulating staff to be more professional, after they won the Democratic primary and engineered the world tour. But if these many gaffes are indicative of Mr. Obamas team, then they are not ready for the White House -- and the voters have the best sense of that. All these miscues call into question the staff surrounding Mr. Obama: and the judgment of the man that picked them. John E. Carey is a retired senior military officer and president of International Defense Consultants Inc.
