Photograph by Edel C.S.&amp; Art work by Isabel SantiagoPluto and Death Pluto is considered as the planet of death. Modern, astrologers use mythology in finding meaning and interconnection between the planets actions and events on earth. In Greek Myth Pluto is equivalent to Hades  the god of the underworld. Pluto is not just connected with the issue of ending but also of recapitulation. Upon death, we come face to face with the lord of the underworld after which the souls fate would be determined. Looking at it from one angle, Pluto is an instrument of fate by putting an end to something or someone or a way of life that is no longer healthy or useful. Pluto turned stationary direct on September 8. Being stationary is considered an indicator of a planets strength. If a planet is strong it will be able to do what it needs to do. Another important aspect of Pluto is that whether we like it or not rather especially when we dont like it  it will take away what it needs to take a way. Similar to death, Pluto acts like a thief in the night.Look at price of the investment bank Lehman Brothers and insurance company AIG, in just a few days the value of these stocks evaporated. Such is the power of a Pluto. This is one reason why astrologers do not think it was right that Pluto was demoted to being a dwarf planet. In terms of astrological influence those coming from Pluto are by no means dwarf.Forecast Review:As stated on September 8, the Jupiter direct station would be followed by a more powerful station of Pluto and that any immediate optimism that comes with Jupiter cannot be trusted. What followed was the most tumultuous week for Wall Street in recent times.    Pluto and the stock markets Tumultuous WeekThese events occurred one after the other, within one week of Pluto's turning direct- the point in time where the planet of death is at its strongest: 1. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were taken over by the government. 2. On Monday Stock market tumbled 504 points, to a record never seen since Sept 11,20013. Volatility index spiked to a record never seen since last August 2002. 4. Lehman Brother, 158-year-old financial institution, went officially bankrupt.5. AIG, USAs biggest insurance was sold after its biggest drop in history.    6. Merrill Lynch was sold to prevent bankruptcy7. To cap the week, another bank collapsed. On September 19, Ameribank became the 12th bank to collapse this year.  On the Verge of Economic CollapseAccording to yahoo news:A congressional aide on a telephone conference call between the Fed, Treasury and lawmakers on Friday said Bernanke issued a stark warning: "If Congress doesn't act soon, there will be an economic meltdown.By Saturday upon the initiative of fire signs Paulson and Bernanke, the US Congress came up with a $700 billion market bailout plan.astrology stocks ipo stockmarket
