Y&amp;#8217;know, I think one of the things that really bugs me about Sarah Palin is simply that all too often, when I&amp;#8217;m reading transcriptions of statements she&amp;#8217;s made, I have no idea what she&amp;#8217;s saying. Well, okay, not no idea &amp;#8212; generally it is possible to figure out what she&amp;#8217;s trying to say &amp;#8212; but her spoken grammar goes beyond the usual sloppiness one can expect in off-the-cuff spoken English into sheer gobbledygook.  Her feelings upon being asked to accept the VP slot, for example (which have been hilariously expanded on in the New Yorker):     I answered him Yes because I have the confidence in that readiness and knowing that you cant blink, you have to be wired in a way of being so committed to the mission, the mission that were on, reform of this country and victory in the war, you cant blink. So I didnt blink then even when asked to run as his running mate.   And then today I read this statement on the Freddie Mac bailout (quoted in the midst of a Washington Post editorial pointing out that 24 days into her VP nomination, Palin has yet to really take on the press):     Well, you know, first, Fannie and Freddie, different because quasi-government agencies there where government had to step in because the adverse impacts all across our nation, especially with homeowners, is just too impacting. We had to step in there. I do not like the idea, though, of taxpayers being used to bail out these corporations. Today, with AIG, important call there, though, because of the construction bonds and the insurance carrier duties of AIG. But, first and foremost, taxpayers cannot be looked to as the bailout, as the solution to the problems on Wall Street.   Many people remark upon just how good Palin is at giving speeches, and that may well be true. But when she&amp;#8217;s not reading off a teleprompter, she&amp;#8217;s barely coherent, possibly even giving our current president a run for the money (though, admittedly, with fewer mispronunciations).I&amp;#8217;ve read better constructed sentences written by ESL students when I was tutoring at NSCC&amp;#8217;s Writing Center. Is this really the kind of person people find to be a reasonable candidate?
