Darren accepted an offer from Barclays and it looks like the deal is pretty permanent.   Apparently both Barclays and Lehman are leanly-staffed enough in the legal departments that they think they can keep everyone on.  So that's a relief.  Work has been incredibly slow this week as I was supposed to be traveling right now.  I went to yoga on Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday at Laughing Lotus under the pretense of trying out all the teachers, but I was really just totally addicted to the way I feel afterwards.  It's amazing.  And to anyone who thinks yoga isn't athletic, I'd really like to see them try to keep up in one of these Lotus Flow 2/3 classes.  I had a girl next to me one day who could literally lift up from downward dog into handstand without even hopping, and then place her feet down gently between her hands for forward bend.  Insanity.  I'm still trying to find the courage to go up into headstand in the middle of the room, but it's not there yet.  Maybe a few more weeks of this will get me there.  I'm really enjoying the chanting at the beginning of each class, the teachings, the philosophy which makes a hell of a lot more sense to me than any judeo-christian religion ever did. I'm finding myself calmer and more centered in everything I do.  And a side benefit:  I've lost two pounds this week and I'm already finding that my clothes fit better.  I have a t-shirt that I bought a year ago and left in my drawer because I was self-conscious about my little paunch showing, and today I wore it with pride as nothing showed!  People have commented that my skin looks lovely (probably because of better circulation) and I noticed I've been sleeping a lot more soundly.  This yoga stuff really works, and I'm proof!  It's rainy tonight so I'm inside with my knitting.  Going to a housewarming party tomorrow afternoon and contemplating making Peanut Butter Popcorn to bring.  We're going to see "Ghost Town" with Ricky Gervais tomorrow night, and Sunday is yoga in the early afternoon followed by crafternoon with some girlfriends.  Woohoo weekend!
