by Frank James  Wasn't Sen. Joe Biden supposed to be the guy helping Sen. Barack Obama appeal to working-class Americans in places like Ohio, W. Virginia, Virginia and Pennsylvania?  Biden clearly didn't advance the team with recent comments he made at a Maumee, Ohio campaign stop. He indicated he didn't support using coal to provide some of the nation's future energy needs, not even clean-coal technology.   Instead, in response to a woman's question on a rope line, he suggested U.S. made clean-coal technology be shipped abroad, to China for instance, to lessen that nation's impact on the global environment.  This is clearly not the kind of comment that helps the Obama campaign in the coal-producing regions of swing states.   Here are his remarks, courtesy of YouTube.     Republicans were all over Biden yesterday and we can expect they'll stay on him during next Thursday's ,  vice presidential debate in St. Louis and beyond (clean-coal is part of Sen. John McCain's all-of-the-above energy independence proposal which is part of his national-security strategy.)  Of course, a bigger problem for Biden was that the use of clean-coal is actually part of Obama's energy strategy too. Unlike Biden's home state of Delaware, Obama's home state of Illinois has a lot of coal.    So Biden's Maumee statement was another moment when the two members of the Democratic presidential ticket seemed to be working at cross purposes, just like when Biden recently said on network TV that he opposed the $85 billion bailout of insurance giant AIG.   That was before the bailout was announced and it wasn't the message Obama wanted out there. During his own network TV interview, Obama had to walk Biden's comment back, saying his running mate should've waited until more of the bailout's details were known.   When Obama chose Biden, more than a few people raised concerns since Biden, for all his working-class appeal, has a habit of stepping in it.  His gaffe-prone tendencies even led the Republican National Committee to set up a website devoted to tracking outbreaks of Biden foot-in-mouth disease.  Still, there may be a benefit in some of his off-message comments. For many Americans angry about the series of Wall Street bailouts, especially but not exclusively low- and moderate-income Americans, including many in some of the coal-producing areas in swing state's, Biden's initial rejection of federal assistance to AIG no doubt echoed their own attitude towards the bailouts.
