The Encore Effect byMark Sanborn Summary: Everyone wants to make a difference in the world, but most have no idea how to maximize their impact. In The Encore Effect, best-selling author and leadership expert Mark Sanborn provides the answer. He leads readers in six practices that will move them beyond excellence to distinction and from mundane to memorable. These principles guide readers to draw on their passion and devote themselves to preparation, practice, presentation, polishing, and finally, avoiding pitfalls. When readers follow these principles they will find that people are attracted to them. More importantly, theyll find that they now have an influence over others that can impact lives for eternity.By following the six principles of The Encore Effect, readers can:Deliver a remarkable performance in everything they doElevate the performance of the people they lead and influenceExtend and deepen the impact they have on otherseven for eternity.This special edition, distributed through the CBA, will include unique content such as scripture verses, biblical illustrations, and discussion questions. My Thoughts: This book contains a simple yet profound formula for being the best you can be -- the person God intended you to be. The book is short and would be easy to read through quickly, but is best digested in pieces so you can really contemplate the concepts.Mark Sanborn helps us remember that everything we do we do for God...whether that is our intent or not. And each action we take can provide glory to Him...even cleaning a toilet! People who follow the principles of this book may be able to improve their standing with their bosses or spouses, but Mark says that is NOT the best way to use the book. The intent is that people who act out of their core convictions will be most successful in the long run. He is also quick to say that this book is not the panacea for all of lifes' difficulties. To change the outcome of our actions will take time, dedication, and appplication.I have a feeling that I will best understand the impact of this book on my life several years from now. I'm still learning from it and expect to take the rest of my life to fully implement the concepts that maximize God's glory. This one has gone on my 'once a year' reading list...and I may need to read it even more often than that!Don't read this book unless you are really ready to change your life! And...if you aren't ready, then you probably really need to read it!About the Author: Mark Sanborn is the best-selling author of The Fred Factor and You Dont Need a Title to Be a Leader. An internationally acclaimed motivational speaker, Sanborn is president of Sanborn &amp; Associates, Inc., an idea studio for leadership development. Having served as president of two national organizations, he regularly keynotes meetings in the United States and abroadspeaking on leadership, team building, customer service, and mastering change. He and his family live near Denver , Colorado
