&amp;nbsp;In a hope that Daniel Bryan does read it. &amp;nbsp;It's time to set some things straight. Daniel Bryan is a lying twatbag. He admits to using people to get his own way. He makes out the way he is, is some sort of test that we should all pass. We don't need to pass your test you fucking retard. Chances are people don't actually give a shit about you. You are nothing. Another human being put on this planet, but slightly more annoying than the rest. All you do Daniel is lie. Then you get caught up and caught out. Me and Kayleigh caught you out. Your trying to seduce her mum for fucks sake are you mental? Well yes, yes you are. As for not speaking to me, you beg me to take you back all the fucking time. I hate you. You used me and made me feel like shit, You did some unthinkable things that by right you are lucky I haven't had you kicked in for. I know you all thought thats why Andy went after Daniel, your wrong Andy just hates him. He knows what he is like. I don't blame Andy for what he did.&amp;nbsp; I've had enough. You got your fucked up girlfriend, who you was seeing behined my back while going out with me, to text me and tell me that you had tried to top yourself and it was all my fault. Tonight you told me you never tried to top yourself!? And then you block me and come back online sayin &amp;quot;btw angela was great in bed&amp;quot; who the fuck is angela and why do i give a shit? oh wait that was the girl you didnt sleep with haha. more lies.eric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:apart from your proving ur a lying sack of shit D J B says:sack of shit noooo liar noooo charmer yesD J B says:she loved it nite hunD J B says:i wasnt been nasty ur alot like me me good look at uni see ya arounderic. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:charmer?eric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:lolD J B says:women love the charm hasnt failed me yeteric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:i dnt find u charmingD J B says:well u found sumthing u slept with me more than onceeric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:i gt boredD J B says:me 2 i dont blame yaeric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:im kind of bored of this conversation too tbheric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:dnt u have better things to do than attempt to out do me in bitchyness and wittD J B says:am not trying 2do anything am just talking 2ueric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:well if u insist on tlkin to me dnt cry when im bitchyam actaully not abad person i choose 2be the way iam for a reason if people think this is the real me then there the fucked up ones no1 understands my pain an for that everyone shall suffer an i will enjoy myself for the force in strong in me you know nothing about pain, your just some unloved child who no fucker wanted.eric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:there are people suffering more than u ever will and its a shame&amp;nbsp;now tell me please what kayleigh saidD J B says:yes maybe but i know of pain 3years of love 4nothing 6months in a war for a country that does not care about its own an abusive mother and nothing to look forward to only death b4 am 30 that is pain an why dont u ask her yourselfD J B says:Nite EmmaD J B says:Sweet Dreamseric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:cos u said u werent lying prove iteric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:or cant u?eric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:u know what write a fuckin novelSome people should just be shot. I apologise for the crapness of this blog. &amp;nbsp;doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:eric. is missing him. [face down in the dirt. she said this doesn't hurt. she said. i've finally had enough.] says:D J B says:Anyway. As I was saying before he rudely interupted. I'm not been funny Daniel but if your life is so wank its probably your own fault. You lie, then you get caught. Lie to more people its never-ending. Now I liked Oliver but I get the feeling he fell out with me because of issues I had with you which is fine cos you know what he is with Kayleigh and he is happy. Why are you trying to split them up with lies?Is it cos you fancy her? cos she is pretty but a bit out of your league she seems to have standards. Why don't you just leave her and her mum alone eh? tosser. I would at this point like to apologise for all of the swearing but he has riled me. Also apologies for bad grammer and spelling. I'm typing in a fast rant like way.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Right anyway, the point I'm trying to make is he tries to destroy peoples lifes and he does anything to get his own way, he doesnt care how he gets it or who he hurts. I'm sorry to the people who ended up caught up in this whole thing. I cba to rant anymore. I'm calmer now. Just please be careful if you know him he uses and destroys people. &amp;nbsp;
