Afternoon ya'll! I got a message from my friend Elizabeth Grace this morning. In said message, she informed me that she had posted a new blog, The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly  AND that she tagged me to do one next!Wait, what???You mean to tell me someone actually tagged ME!?!?!Well, you'd better believe that put one big smile on my face!!! I usually end up tagging myself *giggle*But, this time I was OFFICIALLY tagged!!!  oh YEAH! LoL  Thanks bethy!! You rock my socks! So, here's the plan this is called "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly." You simply give a little info (good, bad, and ugly) about what's been going on with you lately. Easy peasy ;)And away we goThe Good: 1) Tomorrow is my momma's birthday!!! YAY! :D I LOVE YOU, MOM!!2) I FINALLY get to pay some bills and put some gas in my car today!!3) One Life to Live is getting goooood!!! Oh yeah!4) I've definitely been having WAY more fun than usual ;) 5) I've started to break out of my writing shell a little bit ESPECIALLY with my last blog! Hot damn!! lolThe Bad: 1) We still have another month of temps in the 100's2) My mouse has a complete mind of it's own anymore! 3) Not only is my mouse acting up, so is my computer! I have NO idea what's wrong, or even how to fix it! I think I need the geek squad!4) My candy stash is almost gone!5) We ran out of toity paper this morning so now I have to go to the store!The Ugly: 1) After ONE night with the family, my perfectly clean kitchen is screaming at me! And I'm trying really hard not to listen!2) I'll have to pin sparkle down to brush her hair in a few minutes here that's never pretty LOL3) Bank of America ate 300 bucks and there ain't a damn thing I can do about it!4) Our medical coverage is being cut off in about 4 months! Oh JOY!5) I've STILL been staring at this unopened letter my dad sent me. Alrighty then there ya go! The good, the bad, and the ugly!And now it's MY turn to tag!!!I tag YOU!!!!But, specificallymiss wildflower!&amp;nbsp;**jenni**&amp;nbsp;heather aka galaxee girl&amp;nbsp;nicole&amp;nbsp;&amp;amp; nicole lol :)jana&amp;nbsp;HAVE FUN!!!! 
