Two weeks ago I wrote about my ongoing trouble with my new Canon Camera, and the less-than ideal customer service I was receiving from Canon&amp;#8217;s service centre.&amp;nbsp; I owe Canon at least one to one-and-a-half stars for finally replacing my camera with a &amp;#8220;refurbished&amp;#8221; product. But, don&amp;#8217;t get me started on why my brand new camera (purchased in June) got replaced by a refurb model! Word of Mouth If Canon runs all customer service transactions like this - they will certainly lose status as a top camera manufacturer - due to the negative word of mouth. One customer can spread the word through their social network and beyond.Since word of mouth recommendations is the number one influencer for consumer purchase decision, it is important for businesses to pay attention to what their customers are saying. And, just as importantly make strategic marketing decisions and position the brand in a way that will garner positive word of mouth.&amp;nbsp; Not always an easy task, but a company that understands and listens to their customers is ahead of the game. The Bottom Line How important is word of mouth to the bottom line? According to a study done by the Listening Company both positive and negative word of mouth is a predictor of sales growth.&amp;nbsp; According to the study: Companies enjoying higher levels of positive word of mouth, such as HSBC, Asda, Honda and O2, grew faster than their competitors in the period 2003-04. Companies suffering from low levels of word of mouth advocacy and high levels of negative word of mouth, such as Lloyds-TSB, Sainsbury&amp;#8217;s, Fiat and T-Mobile, grew slower than their competitors. A 7 per cent increase in word of mouth advocacy unlocks 1 per cent additional company growth. A 2 per cent reduction in negative word of mouth boosts sales growth by 1 per cent. Spreading Negative Word of Mouth Most of us have had bad experiences with products or services, and often we discuss it with friends and families. It turns out that we do this less often than we think, according to Keller Fay Group positive word of mouth outpaces negative six to one. However, as we saw above, the negative word of mouth can be seriously damaging to the bottom line! And, it can spread just as easily.  In my Canon example,&amp;nbsp; I will spread the word of my disappointing experience in the following way: 1) Two posts about my disappointment with a company/product I previously adored2) These two posts will be posted on my Facebook profile (260 Friends), will be Tweeted on Twitter (247 Followers), that Tweet will be repeated on Facebook as my Status and will appear on my FriendFeed (15 subscribers - haven&amp;#8217;t spent a lot of time on this network yet!).3) I will also post a note on an active forum of local Moms in the Shopping Section to share my experience with this company (3000 active members).4) Finally, and certainly not the least important piece of the word of mouth puzzle - I will tell my friends and acquaintances directly (75% of word of mouth is face-to-face). I tell the story, not in spite, but in hopes that it helps other customers make decisions or the company make relevant changes. The potential spread of this story, just from me - one person&amp;#8230;is extensive, and doesn&amp;#8217;t take into consideration those in my network who might tell someone else.&amp;nbsp; Certainly not every customer with a bad (or good) experience will tell friends and acquaintances to the same extent, but even if 1% of customers do so - it can be destructive to a brand. A often quoted study by Keller Fay Group, shows that in our ordinary conversations we mention specific brands 56 times in one week.&amp;nbsp;  How Canon could get Five Stars? Canon, and other businesses need to consider the cost of acquiring a new customer, against the cost of maintaining an existing customer. Obviously acquiring a new customer is more costly than maintaining a relationship - the cost of customer service to the existing customers.  For example let&amp;#8217;s say that the cost of acquiring me as a customer for Canon is $X (expenses required to gain my sale - usually including marketing and sales costs such as advertising, PR, POS material and sales expenses). I purchased three Canon Cameras over 8 years, so my Lifetime Value is $Y.&amp;nbsp; The longer I remain a customer the higher my lifetime value will be as I likely will purchase more cameras over time.&amp;nbsp; Of course, the acquisition cost for the company remains the same&amp;#8230;so the loyal customers are obviously the most valuable. If this is true, why do so few companies spend so little KEEPING customers? Not only does it cost more to find a new customer, but a loyal existing customer who advocates for the brand has the potential to convince others to become a customer&amp;#8230;at little cost to the company. So, Canon could have: - When I went back the second time to have the camera fixed, they could have offered a loaner (perhaps a model a step-up so that next time I purchase I might consider trading-up)- When I called before going in for the second time they could have offered to send a courier to pick-up instead of having me to drive to the office again.- When they finally sent me a replacement camera they could have sent a letter in the box apologizing for not finding the issue the first time. - They could have sent a camera case, or a set of batteries, or some other little branded gift along with my camera as an apology for the inconvenience. - They of course should also be searching the web, reading posts about their products, and responding effectively! Canon could have simply had remarkable customer service, and I would have continued to purchase Canon cameras without considering the competition. I have not given-up completely on Canon, but next purchase I will do more research than I did this time around! Word of Mouth Marketing My story may not have any effect on Canon, but complaints from customers add up and can have an effect on sales. Just the same, brand advocacy and positive word of mouth can have the opposite effect on sales. Because of this, many companies are trying to harness word of mouth through word of mouth marketing and buzz or viral marketing.&amp;nbsp; I have written on this subject a few times in the past, but there are a number of wonderful blogs that focus on word of mouth: Church of the CustomerAndy Sernovitz&amp;#8217;s Damn! I Wish I Thought of ThatBuzz Canuck (who also has a great list of WOM Bloggers) Technorati Tags: marketing,word of mouth,canon,customer service,buzz marketing,camera,digital camera,brand advocacy,business,e-marketer,keller fay study  ShareThis
