The first time I read the Vinci Code it left me speechless. There are many things, which we don't think of, or we accept the way it is....not by analyzing it then believing into it. To find out the truth, to dig a hole can be venturous, it can shatter your beliefs, it can open your eyes. Eye-opener is always a scary thing. Every time a person has got his eye opened, a change has come to his life, the people around him and a revolution has occurred let it be even at the ground level or at a wide scale. The basic difference between believing into what others belive and believing what you believe makes the difference.  The greatest intellectual decisions throughout history has always been deceived to normal people with something else or they were given something else to look into. Right after the World War I when Americans were made scared with a simple rumor, that America's central bank has become cashless because they had to finance the world war, made millions of people to withdraw all there money from their accounts. That was the mark of the beginning of the plan the of famous banker John D. Rockfeller  made in order to bring the biggest upset in the world, setting up the federal reserve bank of America...and most of all making it a private bank. Whole America's economy is a debt to Europe's most prominent Jewish Rockfeller family. There power extents so deep, they actually possess the authority to issue the currency of the most powerful nation in the world, USA. In 2005, Dennis Kucinich ( congressman) criticed the authority of the Federal Reserve bank of issuing currency and it's independancy, but like before, nothing can be done about it, they have to bear the fact, America's economy depends on a Europe's family.  Look at the tazmahal, the seventh wonder of the world. Historians says, Tazmahal has been built for the love, for the mark of the occasion of one of the greatest love story, between the Mogul Emperor Shah jahan and his third wide Mumtaz mahal. But has we ever got to know, the other side story of the Mogul Emperor's decsion of making Tazmahal apart from the grief of loosing his wife?  India at the time of the mumtaz Mahal's death was going through a economic crisis. Even though mogul reign was very affluent at the time of ShahJahan, yet the reccession, drop in trading, and rapid population growth was taking place in India at that time, around 1630's, yet Agra being famous for trading and business had to go through a tough period. Building TazMahal, proved to be very thought-provoking, giving jobs to millions, all the stones and marbles were brought to India from Turkey, so helping the trading, because India was entering the Europe's market for it's spices too and most of TazMahal building meant, huge investsment, and it paid well, and till today it is paying.  The outlook of people in this world is very strange. An economist thinks economics can solve every problem, a businessman thinks business will do it, an engineer thinks through technology, a priets thinks through the blessing of the Highest spiritual Power.....an historian thinks understanding and learning from history is the answer. But we don't need an engineer to do the thinking, we don't need one economist to do the thinking, we don't need the politician to do the thinking, we need a group of the &amp;quot;creative minority&amp;quot;. The famous historian Arnold Toyenbi in his book &amp;quot; A study of history &amp;quot; said, when the group of minority he referred as creative minority has developed, the civilisation has developed, the country has developed. Yet, if we don't think to something from the other way round, if we can't help to find the eye-openers for us, how can we unfold the potential we possess?
