When I go shopping (even when I window shop), I do compare prices and that isn't related to me being a miser, I'm not, but I don't want to be ripped off by the taxation department or the Australian government, with all its GST and duties.    I've had my eye on many things that I've viewed on overseas retail sites, to find them in Australian boutiques for incredible prices. If it was a simple matter of currency exchange, then I'd happily accept the difference, but it goes further than this. There can be a difference of one hundred dollars, after the currency exchange, and that difference relates to extra taxes/duties, and frankly, I don't see why Australian consumers have to pay them.     One simple example is a handbag. I recently went to the Coach boutique at the Queen Victoria Building here in Sydney, to find a bag, and compare the Australian store price to the US site price, and after the currencies were converted, I realized that there was an additional hundred dollars added to the price. To be blunt, this federal government, like the one before it, expects its citizens to spend (to maintain a fluid economy) but they slug us with hefty taxes on retail goods. They probably slug taxes on retailers, and if you really look at the ineptitude of this current government (it can't even find an extra few million dollars to increase the aged pension from its billions surplus), the extra taxes are enough to make anyone froth at the mouth. They slug us with goods and services tax on everything, including toilet paper and tampons. Do we really need it for clothes? This stupid Labor government was, up until now, planning to add a hefty tax on luxury cars but has failed to pass this through. It's outrageous, but it reflects the ineptitude of the Rudd government; they're grappling at economic straws because they have no idea. Meanwhile aged pensioners struggle to live on their meager pensions. WTF do they do with the surplus and perhaps they've invested it in stupid marketing strategies, like the idiotic Commonwealth Bank ad campaign.    Thus, the launch of US retailer JC Penney online in Australia is a good change because Australian retailers (department stores) cannot be bothered with an online shopping presence, then again, what would be the point when you're likely to encounter a few hundred dollars difference if you compare prices? I recently asked an overseas friend if I could ship items to her address, for her to ship them to me (for me to reimburse the shipping to Australia) because I'm fed up with entering a boutique or department store here to be slugged with an over inflated price, or be limited in selection.    For example, many US labels don't import all their ranges to Australia. I've recently visited the Ralph Lauren store in the city to find a limited range. I've visited the Ralph Lauren boutiques at Sydney Department Stores (Myer and David Jones), to see that they have a restricted range. Coach doesn't have its entire range at its Sydney boutique. The assistants are the first to reveal this first, so what is the point? Then you'll visit the US site, to find items, and you can't purchase them because they don't ship to Australia.     I've seen tremendous price variations over the last few months. I've seen an item with a four hundred dollar difference (to an Australian's disadvantage), due to additional duties. The retail price of an item takes outgoings and taxes into account, the item isn't produced in Australia, so if we buy items from the United States, why should we pay an extra GST and tax? For what? And if we use the same logic, most items here in Australia, such as clothes are made in China but we're slugged with additional taxes that are reflected in the retail price. They say that the standard of living here is 'excellent', but come on, shopping isn't what it used to be, especially with apparel and food. They're making out like we're having a food shortage in Australia, but does anyone see the government trying to help farmers? Not really. The huge supermarket chains in Australia  two dominant chains  dominate the market, but their prices aren't really cheap. It's cheaper for someone to drive to a large market and buy fresh produce. A head of cauliflower here is inflated by more than a hundred percent by supermarkets like Coles and Woolworths. Is that to provide for its incredulous marketing campaigns and letterbox leaflets? Yeah, we know you both exist because you're everywhere, but do you need massive television campaigns? I doubt it. Does Myer really need to pay Jennifer Hawkins to model clothes? I doubt it. Does David Jones really need Miranda Kerr to prance around? I doubt it.    I think it's fantastic for JC Penney to launch an Australian website. It will make retailers, and possibly the federal government, sit up and take notice because many things don't need to be priced the way they are. Any one who regularly shops at factory outlets would agree with me. Most of the time, we're paying for the brand or the name, or the extra duties the government expects (just so politicians can go on overseas junkets? Just so certain politicians can evade prosecution  like that uncouth sow Belinda Neal). People do have a right to ask about what they're being charged. It's not about the money but the principle of the matter. And no, bullshit excuses like food shortages arent sufficient, because there isnt a food shortage. If Burger King can promote a heart attack burger with four meat patties and four cheese slices for an affordable price, then there isnt a food shortage.    Its ironic how junk and high fat food in Australia, and Im guessing everywhere else, is the cheapest form of food one can buy but fresh produce is slugged like a luxury item here. And then they tell you to be healthy, look after yourself, but these governments dont do anything about it, but they're quick to tell people how fat their nations are becoming. It's not too complex to see why and no, sometimes it's not about compulsive eating but eating what you can afford. A goods and services tax on toilet paper, tampons, condomsI mean, its fucking incredible isnt it?            
