Why not buy the nation's largest insurance company? More and more each day I'm becoming more and more frustrated with this adminstration and am wondering why we haven't tried to bump him off the bench, Nixon style? When we had a president get a blow job in the oval office, we had months and months of litigation and special investigation committees. We had Kenneth Starr! Where is he now? Where are you Kenneth Starr when we need you? To uphold truth, justice and the American way? Perhaps Mr. Bush needs to get a blow job from someone other than his wife in order to be investigated.  So we, the taxpayers, bought AIG Insurance company. The same company that insures medical, auto, homes, etc. Why? Because they were having money troubles and if we didn't well thousands and thousands of insurance writers, executives would then understand the turmoils of the working class, and well we couldn't have that. Could we? Guess what AIG, you would have had a taste of the life that so many are living today. No work, high gas prices, not enough money to pay for basic living expenses that we could pay for four years ago. So now that the U.S. owns AIG, does this mean we'll have universal health care? Or does this insure that we will continue to wait to it's almost to late to get that cancer screening because of lack of health coverage?  Where the hell did we get $80 billion to spare, you may ask? The economy is in a financial crisis, people are trying to figure out how to pay for basic necessities, but we have $80 billion dollars lying to help out an insurance company. Especially after Mr. Bush claimed that helping big companies was not a solution the government would consider. How very socialist of this extremely democratic and morally apt adminstration move to help a capalist company? Since when did the government help out capalists? Perhaps it was that rebate we all got in May. A measly $500-1000 per household to help pay for groceries and gas, for how long a whole month's worth of groceries? Gas? So I read in an article that this money came from a federal reserve, a matress, if you will where the government stores away extra cash in case of crisis like the Nightmare on Wall Street. They have a reserve of $200 billion dollars, down from $800 billion dollars. So really $80 billion dollars is peanuts and it is a loan with a high interest rate, so that makes more sense, I guess. Meanwhile there are hurricane victims with nothing to go back to. People sitting around in shelters in other cities waiting to go back to NOTHING. Gas is skyrocketing again, to the point where I'm really scared about how often I will actually see my kids now and how I may have to compromise Christmas just to line some fucking oil company's pockets with my kids Christmas present money. I guess it's not really important that I get them something, especially since it's going to such a great cause! So when I go this next week to pay my tax attorney to keep the IRS at bay from taking all of my money, I'll know that it's important that the IRS hunt me down for my $7,000 a year in taxes I have to pay every year. After all there are Fortune 500 companies that need my money more than I need it. Can you smell the pot boiling? I think we all do! Viva La Revolucion!
