What to make of the current economic mess, along with the partisan mess of an attempt to clean it up?  Both sides blame the other. I blame both sides, or should I say all three sides: The Republicans, the Democrats, and the Bush administration.And believe me, there is plenty of blame to go around, but let's start with the top, as in Dubya and Fiends, er, Friends. The 700 billion no-oversight bailout proposed by the administration is nothing more than a ploy to take advantage of national panic. Let's not forget what Bushy and the Boys did after the last national panic, a little thing I  well, OK, and a few others as well  like to call 9/11.  With the nation looking to leadership and clamoring for answers, the administration gave us the Patriot Act and Operation Iraqi Liberty (my name for it, if for no other reason than the acronym explains it all). Still want to trust them? First they capitalize on the publics fear by taking a weed-whacker to the Constitution, then take it one step further by using it to help justify a war that has cost us the lives of 4000 Americans and countless more Iraqi civilians.  Now they grab a bailout number of 700 billion out of thin air, with no oversight, regulation or even so much as a call for the investigation of those responsible. It's sort of the equivalent of Bank of America awarding me for defaulting on my credit card by raising my credit limit.  Do I believe the government needs to step in during this crisis? Of course. But a blank check is not the answer, and that is what the Bush administration wants to give them.  Then there is Republican John McCain doing his best Andy Kaufman as Mighty Mouse impression, lip-syncing "Here I Come to Save the Day" and suspending his campaign to "put his country first." OK, it looks like a gimmick, and it probably is. But to a certain extent, I think McCain actually believed he could bring both sides together. But this is the economy we are talking about, admittedly not his strong suit, and he was out of his depth. Did you see him at the White House round table? The spittoon made a bigger contribution.  On the other hand, it did distract people from Sarah Palin making a fool out of herself on the "CBS Evening News."  But don't think I have forgotten the Democrats in this. Harold Reid and Nancy Pelosi's shameless politicizing at a time of national economic crisis was shameful...can something shameless be shameful? Yo, need an English major here!Anyway, Reid and Pelosi's snubbing and criticism of McCain  no matter what his motives may have been  cast the Democratic leadership in the worst light. By their actions, Reid and Pelosi proved beyond the shadow of a doubt where their priorities lie. They should  be ashamed of themselves, and the Democrats should take immediate steps to oust the both of them once the smoke clears.  If Obama was party to the shenanigans of Pelosi and Reid  and I have yet to see any evidence that he was  then he should be chastised as well. But that can wait.  If I may use an analogy that I must credit to my wife, the house is burning to the ground while everybody is busy beating up the arsonist. There is plenty of blame to go around. We know what caused the mess. Quit pointing fingers and fix it already!
