Sigh. My nice friendly branch right around the corner from my apartment ... is still open.&amp;nbsp; Will stay open for a while, maybe, but I don't know how long.&amp;nbsp; WaMu is no more. Of course, all I've got in there is a few hundred bucks, so I'm totally safe, it's all insured by the FDIC, nobody can touch it but me.&amp;nbsp; I really don't want to go to Wells Fargo or Bank of America, though, I've heard such horror stories of them screwing people over ... I refuse to go to Wells Fargo, anyway, one of their tellers was really rude to me once. Buh bye. By the way, did you know that the conservatives have an answer for why WaMu failed?&amp;nbsp; The conservatives think WaMu failed because it hired too many Mexicans and gays.&amp;nbsp; I kid you not, just look.&amp;nbsp; I mean, I know that not all conservatives are racists and homophobes, but if liberals are going to&amp;nbsp;embrace all races and the GLBT population, while conservatives are happier to tolerate those who scapegoat blacks, Mexicans, Muslims and gays -- then I'd be very happy to say I'll be a liberal all my life.&amp;nbsp; Maybe someday I'll have a completely different perspective on global capitalism and the military-industrial complex, maybe someday I'll even turn into a Jesus-freak, but I'm really sure I'll never have a different point of view on racism and homophobia ...&amp;nbsp; When you blame everything on Mexicans and gays, you're a moron, full stop. Anyway, I'll miss WaMu.&amp;nbsp; I liked 'em a lot.&amp;nbsp; Whatever happens next, I hope everyone's learning this painful lesson about our credit culture.&amp;nbsp; You can't borrow forever.&amp;nbsp; You can get away with putting sawdust in your sausage for a little while, but not indefinitely.&amp;nbsp; You can't trick people into borrowing more than they can afford, ramp up their interest rates when they're not looking, sell the debts to somebody else and then say "Oh, I didn't see that coming" when all this imaginary money winds up not materializing. I think now's a good time to remind everybody about four&amp;nbsp;corrupt Democrat Senators who screwed up back in the late eighties / early nineties.&amp;nbsp; Four Democrats called the Keating Five.&amp;nbsp; That's kind of a funny name for four people, isn't it?&amp;nbsp; Oh wait, there was a Republican too, besides the four Democrats.&amp;nbsp; I just wish I could remember that guy's name ... hmmm ...
