Isn&amp;#8217;t it strange how when you know your friends read your blog in the speed of light, you almost feel compelled to write more - as though your life is interesting enough to feed a captive audience? I think this is my ego speaking. Anyway, I find myself with a few spare moments before dinner, and I thought I&amp;#8217;d take this opportunity to record this day in history. Today is September 15 2008 - 4 days after the anniversary of September 11 where America was beseiged by the now infamous twin towers terrorist attacks. Today, America is faced with another attack of a different level. Lehman Brothers have just filed for bankruptcy today. Merrill Lynch has been bought over by Bank of America and may cease to be no more. AIG is predicted to be next. What about Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, the last standing bastions of investment banking? The publishers must be doing a roaring business. They are busy hiring financial authors and professors to rewrite the textbooks - in what must be, historically, a watershed moment for the financial sector in a way the world has never seen. Is it armageddon, as what Thomas so aptly put it? Does this spell the end for the super-rich, the untouchables with their sky-rocketing bonuses that makes everyone turn green with envy? Today, the tables are indeed turned. God mocked the &amp;#8220;brilliants&amp;#8221; who are in the Lehmans and Merrills, and as it turned out, the average mediocre ones who only managed to land a job in the local banks or less esteemed financial institutions, are secretly relieved that they, at least, get to keep their jobs. Mixed emotions I have. On one hand, this is such an exciting time to be in for a profession that has to keep up with financial news. On the other hand, I wonder if the world for me, will ever be the same again. Is this the end of days? Even the &amp;#8220;unshakeables&amp;#8221; seem strangely vulnerable and helpless. All the brains and IQs in this world can&amp;#8217;t fathom the end of this crisis, or how deep it&amp;#8217;s going to bring them in. I&amp;#8217;ve always thought, if nothing else, I want to be intelligent, wise, smart and revered for being so. I want to be educated in the elite institutions and rub shoulders with the super IQs, the extraordinary talented - as if by associating myself with them, some of their invulnerability will rub off on me. Today, hmm&amp;#8230; my perspective has been somewhat altered. So is it that necessarily for Ethan to get into the ivy-leagues of this world, to graduate top of his class and be offered scholarships by various parties? Maybe not so. Although I still believe that intellectual curiousity, and good values, will stand you in far better stead, than say, getting a job in Lehman Brothers. 
