First $350 billion gone with the wind. Seeking release of the remaining $350 billion. Obama stimulus package amount unknown but rumored to be $850 billion and that&#8217;s probably on the short side.  Senator James Inhofe I don&#8217;t know Senator James Inhofe but I couldn&#8217;t agree with him more. He recently said in an interview the following: U.S. Sen. James Inhofe tells Newsmax that Congress?approval of the $700 billion Wall Street bailout is the ost outrageous vote in American history.&#8221; irst of all I was somewhat of a leader of the opposition way back in October, in mid-October,?Inhofe responded.  think history will treat that vote as the most outrageous vote in American history, where 75 percent of the House and Senate voted to give an unelected bureaucrat an unprecedented amount of money ?the largest amount in American history to be actually voted on at one time, with no strings attached, no guidelines, no oversight. And there is no money, it has to be borrowed. And Obama has chosen Timothy Geithner,a man to head up the Treasury, who owes more back taxes than many make in a year. And because of this drastic situation, we have to hurry, hurry, hurry, and not ask too many questions because we have to have a Treasury Secretary in place. Well, would it be asking too much for Obama to choose a man who at least pays his taxes? If he doesn&#8217;t know enough to do that, even if it was a mistake, do we want him in the charge of the United States Treasury, because whoever gets this job will be the next unelected bureaucrat to be in charge of an unprecedented amount of money. And I remember Ms. Gonzalez being drummed down for a withholding problem oroversight and she didn&#8217;t get the appointment. I just heard that Bank of America and Citi Bank are coming back for more. How much longer are we going to stand for this? How much longer are we going to keep paying taxes and struggle to make a living on what is left? How much longer before we sleep on the Capitol steps or lie down in the hallways of Congress or turn over a few cars as they did in Athens? I understand their frustration. Posted: 01.14.09 
