Just like  John Henry,  Paul Bunyon and Abraham Lincoln, in my opinion, Milorad Rod Blagojevich, will grace history books as the  bigger than life  man who  coming out of the state of Illinois  testing  our Constitution in relation to  Black citizenry  to its very limits. A man who squeezed our Constitution so tightly it cried for mercy. A man who with just a stroke of his pen sent Constitutional figureheads running for cover being exposed as the hack many of the  are.  Pompous asses!  Mr. Blogojevich is a man  who single handedly  put the Democratic Party in the worst peril of its existence and all of this with a stroke of his pen. And, alas, a man who really knows the Constitution.There are some who would call our new folk hero a crook though a mild mannered man.  A mis-guided man.     A person who would sell anything within his power to advance the stabilities of his family structure. A Chicago Mafia Man. This may be said and indeed it maybe true but there is one thing I know and know very well: There is nobody who knows the law better than a crook. And if it is true  Illinois is a crooked state run by crooks and has been for decades, then Mr. Blagojevich has to be the best of the crooks. He is  Governor of the state.  When you are the best of anything, it speaks for itself: You are the best!  Head Honcho!  De man!I note it was during the night after Mr. Blagojevich said he was going to ask the state of Illinois  to stop dealing with "Bank of America"  until it fulfills some of its financial obligations  to its customers, he was arrested. I thought that odd. I still think there was a relationship between what he said and the acceleration (?)  of his  arrest.   And even more so that the charges against Mr. Blagojevich were not  formal nor criminal. And now with this ninety day delay and all, it sounds fishy to me. I repeat: If Mr. Blagojevich is a crook, he sure does know the laws of his state and of the U.S. Constitution and for that, I salute him.Fighting for the dignity of my Ancestors,God bless Bill Gates, WPFW, C-Span and the spirits of the unborn for the help,BBP.S. In relationship to Mr. Blagojevich, the saying goes, You scratch my back and Ill scratch yours. Also Kudos to Michelle Bernard and Pat Buchanan.
