  Okay,  So I read an article in the paper this morning that the former Merrill Lynch CEO (prior to its merger with Bank of America), John Thain spent a million dollars (1.22m) in corporate funds redecorating his office, while jobs and salaries were being cut through-out the firm.   His excuse?   That the new office was very different than the general dcor and it would have been very difficult to use it in the form it was in.  Heres the rundown:  Curtains: $28,000 Pair of chairs: $87,000 Regency chairs: $24,000 Chandelier (for the private dining room) $13,000 Custom coffee table: $16,000 Six dining chairs: $37,000 Antique commode: $35,000 (antique commode???) Parchment waste can: $1,400  and not a penny of it came out of the $83 million he was paid in 2007.  Okay, so we have a greedy banker herethats no big shock. Greedy banker is kind of like saying, ambitious politician.   Its something of a given.  However, when your company is in the antique commode, requiring massive government hand-outs to stay afloat, and the eyes of the entire nation are upon you, and the misdeeds of the countrys movers and shakers are making headlines every day, spending a million dollars to redo your office isnt greedyits just plain stupid.  The median income, in my city, for a household is $52,515. To put this all in some perspective, Thain spent 23 years worth of the average Wilsonville familys income to redecorate his officebecause he didnt like the general dcor.  And, keep in mind, this was money that the company didnt have, but borrowed from the government.   In other words, it was our money.   Now, Im not crazy about the idea of greedy, money-obsessed individuals overseeing our nations financesbut, wellthats life, and its a given that the people whos god is money are going to rise to the top of the financial world.   Stupid people being in charge of our moneynow that makes me worry.   Am I being too harsh? Am I making a mountain out of a molehill? Would you take out a loan to spend eight months salary on a new toiletwhen you couldnt afford to pay your bills?   I could go on to list all of the terrible repercussions of folks this stupid running our financesbut, then again I dont have to.   Theyre listed on the front page everyday.  -Perk    
