Frank Rich is right. Bu$hie's Ba$e is just as much to blame as Bu$hie himself for the economic mess we're into:...on Feb. 10, 2007, when, on another frigid day, he announced his presidential candidacy in Springfield, Ill. Citing our mounting debts and hard choices, he talked of how each of us, in our own lives, will have to accept responsibility and some measure of sacrifice. His campaign, he said then, has to be about reclaiming the meaning of citizenship. But the press, convinced that Obama was a sideshow to the inevitable Clinton-Giuliani presidential standoff, didnt parse his words all that carefully, and neither did a public still maxing out on its gluttonous holiday from economic history. However inadvertently, Time magazine had captured the self-indulgent tenor of the times when, weeks earlier, it slapped some reflective Mylar on its cover and declared that the 2006 Person of the Year was You.It was in keeping with the unhinged spirit of the boom that three days after Obamas Springfield declaration, a Wall Street baron, Steven Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, a private equity and hedge fund, celebrated his 60th birthday with some 350 guests in the vast Seventh Regiment Armory on Manhattans East Side. To appreciate the degree of ostentation and taste, you need only know that Rod Stewart was the headliner, at an estimated cost of $1 million.That same week the National Association of Realtors told less well-heeled Americans not to fret about its report that median home prices had fallen in 73 metro areas during the final quarter of 2006. The bottom appears to have already occurred, said one of the N.A.R. economists. Another predicted: When we get the figures for this spring, I expect to see a discernible improvement in both sales and prices.We have discerned what happened to those sales and prices ever since. As for the Blackstone Group, it went public four months after its leaders 60th birthday revels. Its shares have since lost 85 percent of their value, and Schwarzmans bash has become a well-worn symbol of our deflated Gilded Age.Yet the values of the bubble remain entrenched even as Obama takes office. In the upper echelons, we can find fresh examples of greed and irresponsibility daily even without dipping into the growing pool of those money managers who spirited victims to Bernie Madoff.Last weeks object lesson was John Thain, the chief executive of Merrill Lynch. He was lionized as a rare Wall Street savior as recently as September, when he helped seal the deal that sped his teetering firm into the safe embrace of Bank of America on the same weekend Lehman Brothers died. Since then weve learned that even as he was laying off Merrill employees by the thousands, he was lobbying (unsuccessfully) for a personal bonus as high as $30 million and spending $1.22 million of company cash on refurbishing his office, an instantly notorious $1,405 trashcan included.Thain resigned on Thursday. Only then did we learn that he doled out billions in secret, last-minute bonuses to his staff last month, just before Bank of America took over and just before the government ponied up a second bailout to cover Merrills unexpected $15 billion fourth-quarter loss. So far American taxpayers have spent $45 billion on this mess, and thats only our down payment.In less lofty precincts of the American economic spectrum, the numbers may be different but the ethos has often been similar. As Wall Street titans grabbed bonuses based on illusory, short-term paper profits, so regular Americans took on all kinds of debt wildly disproportionate to their assets and income. The nearly $1 trillion in unpaid credit-card balances is now on deck to be the next big crash.This debt-ridden national binge of greed and irresponsibility washed over our culture not just through the Marie Antoinette antics of a Schwarzman and a Thain but in mass forms of conspicuous consumption and entertainment. Cable networks like Bravo, A&amp;E, TLC and HGTV produced an avalanche of creepy programming catering to the decades housing bubble alone  an orgiastic genre that might be called Subprime Pornography. Some of the series  Flip This House, Flip That House, Sell This House, My House Is Worth What?  still play on even as more and more house owners are being flipped into destitute homelessness.The austerity of Obamas Inaugural Address seemed a tonal corrective to the glitz and the glut. The speech was, as my friend Jack Viertel, a theater producer, put it, stoic, stern, crafted in slabs of granite, a slimmed-down sinewy thing entirely evolved away from the kind of Pre-Raphaelite style of his earlier oration. Some of the same critics who once accused Obama of sounding too much like a wimpy purveyor of Kumbaya now faulted him for not rebooting those golden oldies of the campaign trail as he took his oath. But he is no longer campaigning, and the moment for stadium cheers has passed.If weve learned anything since the election, it is this: We have not remotely seen the bottom of this economy, and no one has a silver bullet to arrest the plunge, the hyped brains in the new White House included. Most economists failed to anticipate the disaster, after all, and our tax-challenged incoming Treasury Secretary may prove as evanescent as past saviors du jour. As we applauded Thain in September, we were also desperately trying to convince ourselves that Warren Buffetts $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs would turn the tide, and that Hank Paulson, as Newsweek wrote in a cover story titled King Henry, would be the right man at the right time.Obama couldnt give us F.D.R.s first inaugural address because we are not yet where America was in 1933  in its fourth year of downturn after the crash of 29, with an unemployment rate of 25 percent. But no one knows for sure that we cannot end up there...Then again, where we find ourselves depends not only on the perception of where we are but of how we got there. For your consideration, Bernie Madoff:...Although hardly a household name, he secured a longstanding role as an elder statesman on Wall Street, allowing him to land on important boards and commissions where his opinions helped shape securities regulations. Along the way, he snared a coveted spot as the chairman of a major stock exchange, Nasdaq.And his employees say he treated them like family.There was, of course, another side to Mr. Madoff, who is 70. Reclusive, at times standoffish and aloof, this Bernie rarely rubbed elbows in Manhattans cocktail circuit or at Palm Beach balls. This Bernie was quiet, controlled and closely attuned to his image, down to the most minute details.He was, for instance, an avid collector of vintage watches and took time each morning to match his wedding ring  he owned at least two  to the platinum or gold watch band he was wearing that day.Per his directives, the dcor in his firms New York and London offices was stark. Black, white and gray  or icily cold modern, as one frequent visitor to the New York operation described it.Despite nurturing a familial atmosphere in his offices, he installed two cameras on the small trading floor of the firms London operations so he could monitor the unit remotely from New York.This Bernie also ran a money management business on the side for decades that he kept hidden far from colleagues, competitors and regulators.While he managed billions of dollars for individuals and foundations, he shunned one-on-one meetings with most of his investors, wrapping himself in an Oz-like aura, making him even more desirable to those seeking access.So who was the real Bernie Madoff? And what could have driven him to choreograph a $50 billion Ponzi scheme, to which he is said to have confessed?An easy answer is that Mr. Madoff was a charlatan of epic proportions, a greedy manipulator so hungry to accumulate wealth that he did not care whom he hurt to get what he wanted.But some analysts say that a more complex and layered observation of his actions involves linking the world of white-collar finance to the world of serial criminals.They wonder whether good old Bernie Madoff might have stolen simply for the fun of it, exploiting every relationship in his life for decades while studiously manipulating financial regulators...Now there's a non-reality based oversimplification for you. It's not because of the ultimate cosmic power he held, head of NASDAQ and writing the rules that would ensure he wouldn't be easily prosecuted. And of course, he must have acted alone, despite unpopular unfortunate employees of the SEC, analysts, and common ordinary people shouting from the rooftops for the last ten years about how his practices were driving the American economy off a cliff.The thought that this was intentional, and co-ordinated, and supposed to happen falls into the realm of the unthinkable, that only the fools who've been shouting it over the rooftops for the last ten years would consider.
