THE Reserve Bank is set to reduce interest rates by a further 0.50 percentage points within weeks after its most aggressive series of cuts since the 1991 recession.  Yesterday's surprise cut of 0.75 points - the third in three months - brings the total fall in the bank's cash rate since September to 2 percentage points, undoing almost five years of rises. If fully passed on, the recent cuts would bring the standard variable mortgage rate down from 9.6% to 7.6%, taking $400 a month off the cost of servicing a $300,000 loan.  A further cut expected in December would bring the total saving to $500.  Australia's biggest home lender, Commonwealth Bank, was the first of the big banks to change its rates in response to yesterday's move - but risked criticism for not passing on the full amount to its customers.  Announcing a cut of just 0.58 points, the Commonwealth blamed increases in funding costs for not fully passing on the Reserve's decision. The other big banks had not revealed their intentions by last night.  Treasurer Wayne Swan has previously warned the banks they would have some explaining to do if they did not pass on the cut in full - a sentiment shared yesterday by Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull.  'The banks have been receiving a lot of support through guarantees from the Government,' Mr Turnbull said. 'They are strong and profitable, and the benefit of these rate cuts, and the stimulatory effect that these rate cuts are designed to have, cannot be enjoyed by consumers, by home buyers, by businesses large and small, unless they are passed on.'  But senior Commonwealth executive Ross McEwan said there had been an increase in all elements of its funding costs recently. 'Raising long-term funds remains extremely difficult and expensive,' Mr McEwan said. 'Similarly, the cost of short-term onshore funding has increased in recent weeks, and we are also experiencing increased costs in retail deposits.'  Yesterday's announcement by the Reserve came just a month after its surprise decision to cut rates by a full percentage point. But unlike last month, when the bank said it did not regard its decision 'as establishing a pattern for future decisions', yesterday's announcement included no such caution. Continued...  
