Asian banks will continue to suffer from rising bad loans next year or into 2010 as the global economy stutters, and banking stocks will remain under pressure, a senior official at Fitch Ratings said on Thursday. 'Dealing with economic downturn will increase bad loans that will challenge banks,' David Marshall, managing director and head of Fitch's Asia-Pacific financial institutions team, said in an interview. 'We would expect non-performing loans to rise until the end of 2009 and possibly in 2010 ... It would be reasonable to state banks' performance will deteriorate in 2009 and may be stabilising towards the end of next year and into 2010.' A string of failures at small-sized manufacturers and a cooling property market have been pushing soured loans higher at Asian banks and sent bad loan charges to their highest in more than a year in the September quarter.   In South Korea, the government's push for banks to lend to smaller firms could undermine banks' bottom line, despite rescue packages from government and the central bank to shore up bank liquidity, analysts say.   The Commonwealth Bank of Australia on Thursday warned investors to expect a big jump in bad debts and voiced concerns over the economic outlook for at least the next 18 months.   Marshall expected Asian banking shares could take a year or longer to recover, given that banks' asset quality tends to lag behind economic indicators by several months.   He also expected access to international funding markets to remain a big challenge for Asian banks in 2009. Australian and South Korean lenders have raised exposure to overseas wholesale funding instruments to finance asset growth.   Fitch said recent measures in Japan and South Korea to loosen bank capital and liquidity requirements would provide temporary relief, but make investors doubtful about banks' underlying risks.   Earlier this week, the ratings agency downgraded its outlook for nearly all South Korean banks to negative from stable, following its revision of South Korea's sovereign rating outlook to negative. 'For commercial banks, what we are really looking for is the impact of economic downturn on borrowers; level of non-performing loans, profitability and capital adequacy,' Marshall said. Asked when it would review South Korean banks' ratings outlook, he said: 'We will get an idea over the next three months.' South Korean banks are moving to bump up their capital ratios via new bond sales and the government will support their plans through a variety of methods, the country's top financial regulator said on Thursday.   The deepening economic slowing could prompt consolidation for medium- and small-sized banks in trouble and rescued by governments, he said, singling out Indonesia, Taiwan and Japan as needing consolidation of banks. 'Economic downturn will reveal any weakness, mismanagement and poor credit quality. In Japan, there should be more consolidation in theory, but there were obstacles to prevent that happening,' he said, without elaborating.
