Borrowers hoping for more interest rate cuts from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) can take heart with new data showing a fall in inflation.  The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge grew by 3.9 per cent in the year to October, compared with an annual pace of 4.5 per cent in September.  This was the first time annual headline inflation as measured by the gauge had been below four per cent since January 2008.  TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson said the fall in the inflation indicator was a sign that Australia's inflation was receding. 'The depressed domestic economy, especially for consumer demand, together with the sharp fall in commodity prices, suggests we could be in the early stages of a substantial deceleration in price pressures,' he said. 'The momentum on prices that is unfolding is such that inflation is on track to reach the RBA's target by mid 2009.' The RBA does not expect inflation to fall to the top of its two to three per cent target band until 2010.  Australian Bureau of Statistics data released last month showed headline inflation surging by five per cent in the year to September, a 13-year high when the effect of introduction of the goods and services tax in 2000 is excluded.  In September, headline inflation fell by 0.2 per cent, according to the gauge, with cheaper fruit and vegetables, holiday travel and household services contributing to price falls.  Mr Williamson said the RBA was on track to cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Tuesday, which would take the cash rate to 5.5 per cent for the first time since May 2006. 'As this information on inflation is considered by the RBA board meeting tomorrow, it will have increasing confidence that interest rate cuts and further monetary policy stimulus are entirely appropriate,' he said. TD Securities expects interest rates to fall to four per cent in 2009.  This would be even lower than in late 2001, when the RBA cut rates to 4.25 per cent following the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.  That was the lowest cash rate since the RBA began publishing a target interest rate in 1990.  The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute measure of underlying inflation climbed by 4.1 per cent in the year to October, up marginally from September's annual pace of 3.9 per cent.  Inflation growth in October was flat, the measure said.  La Trobe University economics professor Don Harding, a co-creator of the inflation gauge, said the financial crisis and a slowdown in Australian economic activity would reduce price pressures in coming months.
