THE ailing global economy is set to receive a shot in the arm from China, with a massive $849 billion stimulus package aimed at keeping the emerging economic superpower growing.  The 4 trillion yuan plan, equivalent to about 20% of China's GDP, is the biggest injection of cash by a government in history, and is expected to have flow-on benefits for other economies including Australia as they battle to avoid recession.  Regional sharemarkets rallied in response to Beijing's announcement, with shares in Australian mining giants BHP and Rio Tinto soaring more than 7% in expectation of a better outlook for their exports.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd hailed the Chinese plan, telling Parliament: 'This is an extraordinary package of significance not just to this economy but also to the economy across wider East Asia and the world.  The announcement came hours before the Reserve Bank of Australia released the most gloomy local forecasts to date, predicting growth this financial year of just 1.5%.  The Chinese package is expected to focus overwhelmingly on construction. A statement by China's State Council said the money would be spent on 10 projects including low-income housing, rural infrastructure, water, electricity, transportation, the environment, technological innovation and rebuilding from disasters.  The announcement caught economists and analysts by surprise. Many had been cutting China forecasts after GDP growth slipped to 9% in the year to the end of September.  Huge numbers of workers have since lost their jobs, and consumer and investor sentiment has recently plummeted.  But yesterday there were renewed signs of optimism. Zhang Yongsheng, a senior researcher at the State Council's Development Research Centre, said: 'China will likely be an exception during the world recession, maintaining high growth, as it did after the East Asian financial crisis in 1997.'  CommSec economist Craig James said the package showed China was 'not taking the global slowdown lying down. 'The US is fading in importance,' he said 'The most significant developments over the next five to 10 years will be industrialisation in China and India, not the US-driven cyclical slowdown.' Continued...  
