Australian business confidence is rapidly deteriorating as a result of the global financial crisis, with almost two thirds of companies participating in a new survey reporting a decline in sales.  The special Australian Industry Group (Ai Group) survey of 303 manufacturing, service and construction companies shows the crisis is biting and the situation is set to worsen in the coming months.  About 60 per cent of surveyed companies said the crisis had a negative impact on their sales. Of those, one-third reported a strongly negative impact.'In this first assessment of the impact of the crisis on the real economy, it is deeply worrying that so many businesses are expressing concern on so many fronts,' Ai Group chief executive Heather Ridout said.'The projections for new orders and investment are particularly worrying, as these are critical pointers to the impacts over the months ahead.'A quarter of surveyed companies reported a strongly negative impact on new orders and more than half of businesses reported negative impacts on capital expenditure.  And the deteriorating business appears to be having an impact on jobs.  The latest Olivier Job Index, which surveys job ads on the internet, fell 4.42 per cent in October and is down 6.16 per cent on this time last year - the first fall in annual growth since 2003.  The gloomy business outlook came as News Corp chief Rupert Murdoch warned that Australia was unprepared for the challenges created by international economic and market turmoil.  In the first of the 2008 Boyer Lectures, Mr Murdoch said that while Australians lived in one of the most ideal societies on the earth, the nation had not been using its human capital to the best advantage.'And I fear that many Australians will learn the hard way what it means to be unprepared for the challenges that a global economy can bring,' he said.The government is acknowledging the tough economic outlook and won't rule out going into deficit if such spending was needed to stimulate the economy.  Assistant Treasurer Chris Bowen said the community wanted the government to respond flexibly to the current situation.'I think the Australian people would expect the Australian government to do whatever is necessary to ensure robust growth,' he told Network Ten.'We've indicated our position, which is that we're fiscal conservatives and we will have a budget surplus across the cycle. But the Australian people would want us to deal with the emerging situation flexibly and decisively.'Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull warned the government against making any rushed decisions.'The Rudd government has to take very great care that it doesn't fritter that away in poorly designed and poorly executed economic policy decisions,' he told reporters.The economic turmoil is likely to mean some good news for consumers - economists are predicting the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will cut official rates by half a percentage point when its board meets on Tuesday.  Mr Bowen called on banks to pass on to consumers as much as possible of this week's expected interest rate cut.'We continue to talk to the banks and say that they should pass on as much as they can at all times,' he said.Mr Turnbull continued his campaign for the banks to pass on the full extent of any rate cut.'They are in a position to do so in my view,' he said.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
