Australian Foundation Investment Company Ltd (AFIC) said there is a good chance heavyweight stocks on the Australian sharemarket will be trading 25 per cent higher in 12 months time as the current liquidation phase draws to an end.  Terry Campbell, director of the listed investment company (LIC), said the consensus estimate of brokers' 12-month target prices for AFIC's top 25 stocks is between 26 to 27 per cent better than their share prices today. 'To me that says in the next 12 months there is a chance the market might be better than it is now,' he told a media roundtable in Melbourne on Thursday, as the local stock market plunged more than four per cent and the All Ordinaries index hit its lowest level since February 2004.  AFIC's top 25 holdings include many of the local stock exchange's top 50 stocks and make up 75 per cent of its portfolio.  AFIC's shares fell 37 cents, or 8.9 per cent, on Thursday to a 3.5 year low of $3.75.  But both Mr Campbell and AFIC chairman Bruce Teele said they couldn't pick the bottom of the market, even with over 50 years of experience in the investment game.  Investors are still better off buying near the bottom than not buying at all, Mr Teele said, adding that the spate of recent capital raisings are creating good opportunities for investors.  AFIC has $192.1 million invested in National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) and picked up more shares in the bank's $3 billion capital raising last week.  Created in 1928, AFIC is Australia's largest LIC with a market capitalisation of $4.7 billion. It operates under a closed end structure, fixing the number of its shares on issue which removes concerns over fund inflows and outflows.  Mr Campbell, who is also senior chairman of Goldman Sachs JBWere, said the older LICs offer investors 'dividends to live by while your capital works' and had come into their own during the 1980s when they offered dividends that grew faster than the inflation rate. 'We might be in a different sort of phase (now) but I think people are still conscious of spending their capital for living,' he said. The current market liquidation phase is a microcosm of the fallout from 1987 when some investment trusts failed, and has resulted in some recently formed LICs trading at a discount due to management contracts preventing takeovers, Mr Teele said. 'We've got a dinosaur I don't think we're going to see any more of those big companies created ... there's no reward for promoting that sort of product these days,' he said. Banks were likely to keep paying dividends throughout the bear market, and would emerge in a much stronger position, Mr Teele said, adding that NAB's current share price undervalues the franchise. 'Our experience over the last 50 years is that the strong get stronger,' he said. And he said the commodities super-cycle is not over. 'As a proxy for growth we look at copper consumption per capita (across countries). We still believe the Chinese economy will emerge further. It's going to take a while longer.' AFIC is supportive of BHP Billiton Ltd's proposed $US80 billion ($A126 billion) merger with Rio Tinto Ltd, but remains cautious over the relative opportunities for using the cash. 'We think they have a very large model and I don't think it'll be 'do it at all costs',' Mr Teele said, adding it was time for Rio Tinto converse more on the merger.
