The economic data due out this week will undoubtedly show a weak economy, but these days investors should be keeping a much closer eye on repairs under way in the financial sector and interest rate cuts by the central bank.  It was the risk of financial collapse, even more than the housing crisis, that helped to precipitate the stock market plunge during the past couple of months. It was feared that the unwillingness of global banks to lend to each other would freeze up global commerce.  A lot of work remains to be done, but there is a clear sign that confidence is slowly rebuilding.  During the past three weeks the three-month U.S. dollar Libor rate (the London interbank offered rate) collapsed to 2.86 per cent (it was down almost 17 basis points yesterday), compared with 4.82 per cent on Oct. 10. That day may also prove to have marked the bear market low for the S&amp;amp;P 500.  Libor is the interest rate at which banks are willing to lend to each other. (A basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point.)  'The most important factor is that we haven't had bad news in terms of corporate or bank trouble for a few days,' Jan Misch, a money market trader at Germany's state-owned lender Landesbank Baden-Werttemberg, told Bloomberg News. 'My view is that sentiment in the money market will improve further this week.'  what are the expectations?  Today, the Reserve Bank of Australia is forecast to cut rates and that should be followed by rate cuts on Thursday by the European Central Bank and the Bank of England.  'What we are seeing is that there has been a significant improvement in regard to the interest rate spreads,' said Stewart Hall, a currency and fixed-income strategist with HSBC Securities Canada Inc. The spread or difference between the three-month U.S. Libor dollar rate and three-month U.S. Treasuries is about 242 basis points, compared with 460 points on Oct. 10.  'Still, the Libor spread to government credits remains at wide levels,' Mr. Hall said. 'The current rate is higher than the peaks we saw in August and November of 2007 and in early 2008,' he said. The spread was about 100 basis points in mid-2007.  And the spread remains extremely high when compared with the yield difference of 25 to 50 points prior to the financial crisis, Mr. Hall said.  
