 IN A surprise move earlier this week the Reserve Bank of Australia cut interest rates by one percent.  With economists expecting a rate cut of a quarter of a percent or, at best, half a percent, the higher drop was welcomed on Tuesday by many people in the real estate and lending industries as well as people currently working to pay off mortgages.  Local real estate agents said it was good news for what some described as a sluggish market and with confidence set to rise in the property buying and selling stakes one hopes it can only bring positive effects.  Lee Perry from Acton, Mandurah believes the cut will lead to a stronger market by next year and he expected people to start buying soon.  Also welcoming the rate cut were local mortgage brokers who agreed the one percent slash came as a surprise, but a good one that would help ease the pressure on borrowers.  With Australias big lenders set to pass on the cut  with the exception of a couple  the future is looking brighter for people hoping to get into a home of their own.  And with many of these people being young couples with families, this can only be seen as a good thing.  Borrowers have been warned however to be cautious in their borrowing requests and needs and urged to still be prudent in their financial dealings.  This comes as no surprise.  The volatility of the global economy in the past couple of weeks has served to remind people prudence is the best option when it comes to their money.  At least for now.  While the Reserve Bank interest rate cut is great, it by no means guarantees the financial security of everybody.  The Australian dollar hit a four-year low on Monday night and, while it has since rallied slightly, people are being encouraged to forego overseas trips at the moment in favour of Australian holidays, or at least be aware their dollar wont go as far as it used to  especially in the United States.  Ultimately it will take more than a rate cut to see the everyday person in a better financial situation.  But Tuesdays cut was, at least, a start.
