The odds of a bigger than usual interest rate cut are firming with all economists polled now expecting the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to lower its official rate by 50 basis points.  An inflation gauge released on Monday shows price pressures already receding as the Australian economy slowed, giving borrowers hope the RBA will cut rates aggressively to ward off a recession, and take the cash rate to historic lows.  All 15 economists surveyed by AAP predict a half a percentage point rate cut announcement before the Melbourne Cup on Tuesday.  This would take the overnight cash rate to 5.5 per cent for the first time since May 2006.  The RBA board meets on Tuesday morning. It will announce its decision at 1430 AEDT.  Citigroup managing director of economics Stephen Halmarick said the RBA would cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Tuesday. 'It's the weakest outlook for the global economy since the end of World War II,' he said. 'It's why our interest rates would reflect that.' Repayments on an average mortgage around $250,000 would fall by $82 a month if commercial banks pass the cut in full to borrowers.  In data released earlier on Monday, the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge rose by 3.9 per cent in the year to October, compared with an annual pace of 4.5 per cent in September.  This was the first time annual headline inflation as measured by the gauge had been below four per cent since last January.  TD Securities now expects inflation to return to the top of the RBA's two to three per cent target in mid-2009, a year earlier than the central bank has forecast. 'The depressed domestic economy, especially for consumer demand, together with the sharp falls in commodity prices, suggests we could be in the early stages of a substantial deceleration in price pressures,' said TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson.  Mr Williamson said an aggressive series of interest rate cuts would take the cash rate to four per cent by the end of June 2009.  This would be even lower than in late 2001, when the RBA cut rates to 4.25 per cent following the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.  That was the lowest cash rate since the RBA began publishing a target interest rate in 1990.  ABN Amro chief economist Kieran Davies said concerns about uncertain business conditions would prompt the RBA to deliver a 50 basis point cut on Tuesday. 'Banks are extremely wary of making new loans,' he said. 'With the whole worsening of the credit crunch, businesses are far less sure about what's going to unfold.' Most of the economists surveyed were punting on a follow-up rate cut in December, with almost half - or seven of the 15 experts - tipping a five per cent cash rate by Christmas.  Interest rates haven't been this low since the end of 2003.  All but two economists are forecasting the cash rate falling under five per cent by the end of June 2009.  RBA deputy governor Ric Battellino said last week high inflation would limit the scope for aggressive rate cuts in 2009. 'There is still a big task ahead to bring inflation down and this could limit room for manoeuvre on monetary policy,' he said. The RBA's preferred measures of underlying inflation, as compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, surged by 4.7 per cent in the year to September, a level well above the central bank's target.
