Inflation has fallen for the first time in more than two years as consumers cut spending in response to fears about economic growth.   For October, the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute monthly inflation gauge dropped 0.2pc, the first contraction since February 2006, as prices of produce, holiday travel and accommodation contracted.   The monthly figure follows a 0.4pc increase in September.   For the year to October, the gauge slipped to 3.9pc, the first time it has been below 4pc since January 2008. Last month, the year-to-September figure was 5pc.  Today's inflation number 'signals quite starkly the speed at which the inflation problem of the last few years is unwinding,' Joshua Williamson, senior strategist at TD Securities, said in a statement. 'The depressed domestic economy, especially for consumer demand, together with the sharp fall in commodity prices, suggests we could be in the early stages of a substantial deceleration in price pressures.'Coming before tomorrow's rate decision by the RBA, a lower inflation gauge will give the central bank more room to cut interest rates in an effort to increase demand and avert a recession.   The market is pricing in a 50 basis-point cut tomorrow, which would take the interest rate to 5.5pc.   A speech by the central bank deputy governor last week suggested inflation remained a problem for the Australian economy and could slow the pace of rate cuts necessary for boosting domestic demand.  The RBA wants to bring inflation within a 2-3pc band. If inflation continues to fall at the rate seen in today's numbers, Mr Williamson said, it will hit the mark earlier - by the middle of 2009 - instead of the middle of 2010, as the central bank earlier predicted. 'As this information on inflation is considered by the RBA board at its meeting tomorrow, it will have increasing confidence that interest rate cuts and further monetary policy stimulus are entirely appropriate,' Mr Williamson said.  The Melbourne Institute's professor Don Harding, co-creator of the inflation gauge, said: 'The financial crisis and the slowdown in economic activity means that price pressure is expected to decline markedly in coming months.''There are, however, offsetting factors.'One is the depreciation in the exchange rate, which will put upward pressure on traded goods prices.'The dollar has fallen 31pc against the US dollar since July, when the currencies were near parity.'Another factor is that non-traded goods inflation is more likely to slow in reaction to, rather than in anticipation of, the economic slowdown so that it may be some time before non-traded goods price pressure eases.'Meanwhile, retail sales dropped more than expected in September as consumer spending dried up amid fears of an economic slowdown.  Monthly retail sales fell 1.1pc, seasonally adjusted, from a revised 0.6pc gain in August, Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show, as the lingering effects of decade-high interest rates combined with fears for the economy to put a lid on spending.   Analysts had expected a drop of 0.5pc.'It's a pretty sharp contraction and doesn't bode well for household spending going forward and contributing to GDP growth in the third quarter,' said Moody's Economy.com Matt Robinson.  In trend terms, retail sales for September gained 0.2pc, from 0.3pc in August, in line with analysts expectations.   The Reserve Bank, which meets to discuss a rate cut tomorrow, had focused on retail sales six months ago when it raised rates to a decade high. 'You've now got the double-downward pressure of the tight monetary policy of six months ago as well as the global financial market turmoil. And the global economic slowdown is going to doubly weigh on household consumption.'Other signs of weakness are filtering through the economy, as well.  Jobs advertised online and in newspapers tumbled 5.9pc in October to an average of 231,135 per week, bringing it 9.8pc lower than a year ago at this time, according to ANZ Bank, which prepared the monthly survey.  That's the biggest monthly drop since February of 2001.   In trend terms, total job ads dropped 2.6pc in October. 
