(Adds details)  SYDNEY, Nov 12 (Reuters) - Australian fertiliser maker Incitec Pivot Ltd  launched a deeply discounted up to A$1.17 billion ($770 million) rights offer on Wednesday, joining a raft of Australian firms tapping equity capital due to difficult credit markets.  The five for 13 rights issue is being offered at A$2.50 per share, a 40 percent discount to Incitec's last-traded price, and the proceeds will be used partly to repay a bridging loan. It comes just four months after Incitec said it had no need to raise cash.  Over the past week, National Australia Bank Ltd , funds manager AMP Ltd  and Sonic Healthcare Ltd  have announced raisings totalling about A$3.8 billion. But Incitec has offered the heaviest discount. 'In this environment, and with so many other capital raisings, that's what you have got to do,' said Rob Patterson, managing director of Argo Investments Ltd, referring to Incitec's offer. 'It's mainly going to be used for paying down debt, so that's probably a factor,' said Patterson, whose funds own Incitec shares. But he said the offer would get good support from institutions.  Incitec, also the world's second-largest maker of commercial explosives, said the capital raising would boost its balance sheet and position it for future growth. 'We remain confident about the future notwithstanding the uncertainty in the global financial environment,' Managing Director Julian Segal said in a statement. 'We expect the strong long-term industry fundamentals to continue and we will enjoy the benefit of a full year of earnings from our explosives business.' Incitec's capital raising also comes as the outlook for fertiliser makers has dimmed due to fall in prices for diammonium phosphate (DAP), commonly used for growing grains and pasture, have sunk from lofty levels.  Incitec also announced a tripling of full-year net profit, reflecting acquisition gains and higher fertiliser prices. The company's shares have been suspended from trade since Tuesday, pending the rights-issue announcement.  Incitec is spending A$935 million to build an ammonium nitrate plant, due to open in 2011, at Moranbah in Queensland state, and had said in July it would be internally funded.  UBS and Credit Suisse are fully underwriting the institutional component of the offer. ($1=A$1.52) (Reporting by Denny Thomas, Editing by Jonathan Standing) 
