As the financial crisis tips into recession, the Bank of England is expected to cut the base rate by a further half or even a whole percentage point before Christmas, taking it as low as two per cent. Any cut would be hot on the heels of the recent 1.5 point reduction to three per cent.  For savers and borrowers, further cuts will usher in greater uncertainty as banks and building societies dither over whether to pass on reductions. In the table, right, Financial Mail identifies which institutions have treated customers most fairly over the past 18 months, as first the credit freeze and then recession, took hold. As our rankings show, most institutions appear to prioritise either savers or borrowers - but not both.  Trust: Sarah Priestman likes Skipton's consistent rates  Borrowers  For most borrowers, the latest base rate reduction has still to trickle through. Only the biggest banks --bullied by Prime Minister Gordon Brown - have cut standard variable rates (SVRs). Even so, this reduction affects only longer-term borrowers paying an SVR, or rates linked to them. Most lenders, including building societies such as Britannia, Yorkshire and Chelsea, had still not reduced their SVRs this weekend.  Our rankings put Nationwide, whose SVR is now the lowest, and Coventry as the most consistent in maintaining low SVRs.  More controversial than a failure to cut SVRs is the refusal of lenders --including giants HBOS and RBS, which will be part-owned by taxpayers - to cut rates for new borrowers.  Halifax, part of HBOS, horrified analysts on Wednesday by offering a tracker mortgage that is 2.14 points over the base rate. In autumn 2007, before the current turmoil, it had deals 0.74 points above the base rate.  Abbey has also introduced tracker deals at margins way above the base rate. On October 31, Abbey's tracker mortgage rate for new borrowers was 5.79 per cent. Now it is 4.99 per cent - a drop of 0.8 of a percentage point - despite the base rate cut of almost twice as much.  'Lenders have no appetite for new business,' says mortgage analyst David Hollingworth of broker London &amp;amp; Country in Bath, Somerset. 'From the point of view of borrowers, the cupboard is bare.'  Our rankings show the best tracker mortgage providers tend to be big banks with more access to funding, such as HSBC and Cheltenham &amp;amp; Gloucester (part of Lloyds TSB).  Who is the fairest of them all. Evil queen cartoon  Savers  For cash Isas, Skipton Building Society tops our fairness league, with competitive rates throughout the crisis. However, some of the least trustworthy Isa providers are banks such as Barclays and Abbey, whose rates have varied wildly.  Skipton saver Sarah Priestman, 22, opened her Isa in September 2007 when it paid 5.9 per cent. It now pays 4.75 per cent, but she is still happy with the rate.  'I keep an eye on returns,' says Sarah, who is in her final year of a clinical science degree at Manchester University. 'I moved to Skipton from Abbey because the rate was better. I want a reasonable rate over time, as hopefully this will form a deposit for a house. Consistently good rates are better than a rate which is the best but just for a short time.'  The recent base rate cut had an immediate impact on fixed-term savings.  Rates on most one-year to three-year bonds have fallen from more than seven per cent in many cases to under six per cent.  Rachel Thrussell of rate collater Moneyfacts says: 'The fixed-rate market is crazy. Most new accounts pay four to five per cent, with a few paying over six.  'But these higher rates are in demand --you need to be quick.' Savers with variable rate accounts, which includes most instant-access accounts and cash Isas, have yet to see reductions following the 1.5 per cent base rate cut. These are likely to be introduced next month.  Our table shows that top fixed rates have been provided mainly by building societies wanting to attract longterm deposits to fund their mortgage businesses.  In some cases, warns Thrussell, the half-point base rate cut in October has yet to be passed on --meaning a hefty hack of two per cent could be in store.  
