 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   IAG, NAB, WBC, CBA, ANZ, AIO, TLS, AAI, AWC, BHP, TIM, HVN, CPU, IPL, WBA, VBA, MLM, IBA, PDN,   AAP 2008-11-12   Australia's second biggest telecoms group Optus grew net profit by 1.8 per cent in the second quarter of this financial year, on the back of a growing mobile customer base.  Optus, which is owned by Singapore Telecommunications Ltd, said net profit rose to $125 million in the three months ended September, from $123 million in the prior corresponding period.  The result helped lift its first half profit by one per cent to $247 million. 'Optus is tracking in line with guidance despite competitive pressures in mobile and wireless broadband and the impact of iPhone 3G subsidies,' chief executive Paul O'Sullivan said in a statement.  Second quarter operating revenue rose 6.8 per cent to $2.06 billion. 'These are positive results from Optus and our accelerating top-line growth in mobile reflects our focus on driving mobile performance,' Mr O'Sullivan said. 'Compelling and market-changing offers like the iPhone 3G and 'yes' Timeless plans contributed to growth in our subscriber base.' About 90 per cent of the Australian population is now covered by Optus 3G.  Optus' mobile revenue rose 13.5 per cent to $1.23 billion in the quarter, with post-paid growth of 9.2 per cent and pre-paid growth of 7.6 per cent.  Optus added 182,000 new subscribers in the quarter - including a record 128,000 post paid additions - bringing the total number of mobile customers to 7.4 million.  The number of 3G subscribers increased to 2.16 million.  But mobile earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) fell 6.7 per cent in the quarter to $322 million.  Business and wholesale fixed revenue EBITDA was up 7.4 per cent to $112 million and consumer fixed EBITDA revenue 58.9 per cent to $44 million.  Optus' group EBITDA was $479 million, up 0.2 per cent, on revenue growth of 6.8 per cent to 2.06 billion. 'This strong revenue growth was achieved despite Optus decision to exit the unprofitable consumer fixed resale market,' Optus said. Optus said it margin had declined to 23.2 per cent, from 24.7 per cent, in the quarter.  Meanwhile, parent Singtel reported a net profit of $S868 million for the quarter, down 12.1 per cent.  Over the half year, profit was down 8.8 per cent to $S1.75 billion.  Quarterly revenue was up 5.3 per cent to $3.89 billion. 'Singapore and Australia both achieved impressive results, with Singapore recording double-digit revenue growth and Australia accelerating its mobile revenue growth,' group chief executive Chua Sock Koong said. 'We further demonstrated our leadership in Singapore as the only operator to bring in the much anticipated iPhone 3G and in Australia we captured the majority share of the iPhone 3G activations.' Ms Chua noted also that SingTel's expansion in the Asia region had subjected it to the volatility of the regional currencies.  Looking ahead, SingTel expects the global financial crisis to result in a slowdown in its business. 'The current global financial crisis is unprecedented and the negative impact on businesses will be inevitable,' Ms Chua said. 'It is crucial we exercise disciplined cost management and at the same time continue to invest for the future. 'We have a strong balance sheet and continue to generate healthy cash flows,' Ms Chua added.
