The odds of a bigger than usual interest rate cut are firming with all economists polled now expecting the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to lower its official rate by 50 basis points.  An inflation gauge released on Monday shows price pressures already receding as the Australian economy slowed, giving borrowers hope the RBA will cut rates aggressively to ward off a recession, and take the cash rate to historic lows.  All 15 economists surveyed by AAP predict a half a percentage point rate cut announcement before the Melbourne Cup on Tuesday.  This would take the overnight cash rate to 5.5 per cent for the first time since May 2006.  The RBA board meets on Tuesday morning. It will announce its decision at 1430 AEDT.  Citigroup managing director of economics Stephen Halmarick said the RBA would cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Tuesday.  'It's the weakest outlook for the global economy since the end of World War II,' he said.  'It's why our interest rates would reflect that.'  Repayments on an average mortgage around $250,000 would fall by $82 a month if commercial banks pass the cut in full to borrowers.  In data released earlier on Monday, the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge rose by 3.9 per cent in the year to October, compared with an annual pace of 4.5 per cent in September.  This was the first time annual headline inflation as measured by the gauge had been below four per cent since last January.  TD Securities now expects inflation to return to the top of the RBA's two to three per cent target in mid-2009, a year earlier than the central bank has forecast.  'The depressed domestic economy, especially for consumer demand, together with the sharp falls in commodity prices, suggests we could be in the early stages of a substantial deceleration in price pressures,' said TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson.  Mr Williamson said an aggressive series of interest rate cuts would take the cash rate to four per cent by the end of June 2009. Continued...  Page  1 2  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
