Kevin Rudd wants leading nations to wage 'war' against unemployment and he wants co-ordinated international fiscal efforts to prop up slumping economies to stem an emerging global recession.  Mr Rudd is one of 20 leaders from the Group of 20 (G20) developed and developing nations who will gather in Washington on Saturday to seek some answers to the global financial crisis.  He flew into the United States capital on Thursday, and an hour after arriving met former US secretary of state Madeleine Albright, whom US president-elect Barack Obama has designated to meet G20 delegates this weekend.  Senator Obama won't attend the summit being hosted by outgoing President George W Bush and has instead charged Ms Albright and former Republican congressman Jim Leach with listening to and meeting the G20 leaders outside the official forum.  '(We) reaffirmed the fact that the Australian government will work closely with this incoming Obama administration on the challenges we now face around the world,' Mr Rudd told reporters.  Mr Rudd will go into Saturday's meeting with his own ideas on what needs to be done to halt the global slump, which has emerged as the original credit and financial market turmoil began to infect the real economy.  'The challenge all governments face now is to put together the building blocks for growth for the future,' he told reporters in Washington.  'Right now we see the data emerging about this global economic recession, therefore governments must step into the breach here and now.  'Globally we need to see concerted co-operative action by as many governments as possible around the world by using their budgets and monetary policy to support growth into the future.'  Last month, Australia unveiled a $10.4 billion economic stimulus package, targeting pensioners, families and the deteriorating housing market.  Mr Rudd won't rule out further action if it's necessary.  Updated treasury forecasts, released last week, show growth slowing to two per cent in 2008-09, while unemployment is expected to rise to five per cent by June next year, and climb to 5.75 per cent the following year.  Unions are worried up to 10,000 banking industry jobs could be lost in coming months, with the ANZ Bank the latest to announce a restructure of its middle management.  Mr Rudd believes nations need to go into battle against spiralling unemployment.  'We as governments of the world must engage in a global war against unemployment,' he said.  'It's a challenge for all of us. It affects growth, it affects jobs. It affects every community and economy around the world and therefore (there is a) need for government action at this time.'  World leaders would need to lay the foundations this weekend to promote jobs and investment in their homelands, he said.  'Our challenge here in Washington ... (is to put together) building blocks about government investment in growth and jobs at a time when the world is facing an impending global economic recession,' Mr Rudd said.  On Friday, Mr Rudd will hold a series of back-to-back meeting with political and financial leaders, including US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn and World Bank chief Robert Zoellick.  In the evening, the prime minister will attend a G20 leaders' working dinner at the White House - the first time he will meet Mr Bush since the controversy erupted over the leaking of their recent phone conversation concerning the G20.  
