(Adds further comment on iPhone and national broadband network, background.) By Lyndal McFarland Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.'s (Z74.SG) Australian unit Optus expects a 'fairly solid' Christmas trading period, but the launch of Apple Inc.'s (AAPL) iPhone will continue to drag on margins, its chief executive said Wednesday.  'As it (iPhone) had an impact on our quarter two margins and expenses, it is obviously going to have an impact on quarter three as well,' Paul O'Sullivan told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview after SingTel's release of second- quarter results.  Optus, like its parent company, subsidizes customer purchases of the iPhone handset in return for a long-term service contract. Optus began offering the iPhone in Australia on July 10.  Optus said its margin on earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for its mobile division fell 6 basis points to 26% in the quarter, reflecting sales of the iPhone. Excluding the impact of the iPhone, that margin would be 32%, Optus said.  However, O'Sullivan said that the subsidies on the iPhone are an investment on a unique device.  'The average revenue per user on (the iPhone) are 1.5 times you get on an average customer today in our base,' he said.  Like its main rival, Telstra Corp., Optus is yet to see signs of the economic slowdown in its operations, and continues to record 'solid' subscriber growth.  'We're not seeing much evidence of a slowdown in our own business at this stage, but obviously we are aware of all the commentary (on worsening economic conditions),' O'Sullivan said.  Key measures, including minutes of usage and average revenue per user, did not show any deterioration in the three months to Sept. 30 and there has been no increase in customers not paying bills, he said.  'But we are very vigilant,' O'Sullivan said. 'If there is a severe slowdown in the economy, you'd certainly expect to see an impact,' he said, but added he does not expect Australia to slip into recession, based on Reserve Bank of Australia forecasts.  O'Sullivan said that Optus continues to hire staff in customer care roles, despite a broader freeze on staff additions, and does not currently have any plans for redundancies.  Optus remains committed to plans to bid for the Australian government's National Broadband Network tender, through its Terria joint venture vehicle.  'We intend to give the government a bid that we can demonstrate can be funded. We also want to bring some of our industry partners with us,' he said.  Several members of the Terria consortium have pulled out in recent weeks.  'The current environment has forced us to recut our cloth and rethink how we do this,' he said.  He said Optus reserves the right to 'go it alone' with a bid, but its preference is for an industry bid.  The government has committed funds of up to A$4.7 billion for the nationwide high speed broadband network, and has called for bids from parties interested in building the network by Nov. 26.  -By Lyndal McFarland, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-3-9650-0637; lyndal.mcfarland@ dowjones.com  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=gyqrrrOUgvITV9NeLavKMw%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 11-12-08 0220ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.  
