THE nation's two retailing billionaires have sounded a dire warning about their industry, saying the retail environment and profit margins are the worst they have seen.   While Gerry Harvey says stores selling home entertainment and electrical goods have had profit margins squeezed to their slimmest in nearly 50 years, the rag-trader Solomon Lew says the retail environment is 'as tough as I've ever seen'. Mr Lew yesterday said sales at his jeans, women's wear and casual wear retailers were going backwards compared with this time last year, and profit in the first six months of this financial year would be 10 per cent lower.   He urged the Federal Government to revive the economy by halving the rate on the goods and services tax and cutting the fuel excise.   The former Reserve Bank of Australia board member also called for the central bank to cut interest rates by another 1 percentage point, a move Mr Harvey said was likely to occur.   Mr Harvey said Harvey Norman had suffered a 32 per cent drop in profits in the three months to September and he was unable to predict how profits would improve. 'In all the time I've been around, electrical and computer margins have never been hit as hard as they are at the moment, because you have so many retailers out there just trying to survive on a day to day basis,' he said. 'There's a lot of reasons to be optimistic but I don't know how you control mass fear when people are all just deciding that they are going to hold on and not spend or wait until [a product] drops in price even further. 'If we could just suddenly turn on the confidence tap in Australia and the money started to flow properly  then this problem [would be] over in a flash. We haven't got any great problems in Australia. There is no great problem  all the fundamentals are OK, there is no big bad debt problem.' Mr Harvey's wife and the Harvey Norman chief executive, Katie Page, said she expected trading over Christmas and January would be 'OK' but would not improve until banks began lending money again.   Mr Harvey said he had closed three poorly performing stores and was looking at closing others.   He expected some smaller rival electrical retailers would 'go belly up' between February and April. 
