A seven year low in building approvals would hit the local economy but a rise later this year is likely, economists say.  Australian building approvals fell 7.2 per cent to 11,167 units, seasonally adjusted, in September, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said.  It was the lowest level since April 2001.  The market forecast was for building approvals to decrease 1.2 per cent.  In the year to September, building approvals were down 21.6 per cent.  Approvals for private sector houses fell 4.7 per cent, while approvals for private sector 'other dwellings' (such as flats) declined 15.2 per cent in the month.  Commonwealth Bank senior economist Michael Workman said September approvals were poor, which will have a negative impact on economic growth data still to come. 'They look very bad particularly because of the fairly large fall in detached dwelling approvals,' he said. 'That, of course, has the biggest impact on commencement data later on and GDP figures for the next few quarters.' The central bank cut its key interest rate at its September meeting, lowering the cash by 25 basis points.  Since then the RBA has slashed its overnight cash by a further 175 basis points to 5.25 per cent - with a 100 basis point cut in October and a 75 basis points cut on Tuesday.  The buildings approvals data was from the first month of rate cuts by the RBA, Mr Workman said.  Future data should now improve due to the federal government's increase in the first home owners grant and the additional rate cuts. 'When the November and December figures start to be printed early next year we will see a recovery in the approvals data,' he said. 'We have had large interest rate cuts in a short time. 'The $21,000 grant for first home buyers to build or buy a newly built has technically had a very short impact on the market over the year or two.  Mr Workman said the RBA did not rule out more rate cuts in its accompanying statement on Tuesday when the central bank cut rates. 'Given the outlook there is more coming,' he said. 'We might have a very significant reduction in mortgage rates, down to even mid-sixes.' Citigroup co-head Economic and Market Analysis Paul Brennan said the building approvals data reinforced that the domestic economy is slowing.  This followed weak retail trade, down 1.1 per cent in September and house price data, 1.8 per cent lower in the September quarter, released earlier in the week. 'The trend is falling at a monthly rate of two per cent,' he said. 'The level of starts is now close to previous cyclical lows even though there is a significant undersupply of housing,' he said. Mr Brennan said the slowdown confirmed the need for the aggressive rate cuts from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) in October and November.  The central bank slashed the cash rate by 100 basis points in October and by a further 75 basis points on Tuesday. 'We continue to expect a cash rate of four per cent in the first half of 2009,' he said. 'But with the RBA now seemingly keen to get there earlier than previously expected.'
