Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has taken responsibility for difficult economic conditions and declared ''war on unemployment'' as a prominent business survey showed business confidence plummeting to a lower level than the recession of the early 1990s.  The gloomy survey came as an economist formerly with the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, and now employed by ratings agency Moodys.com, asked whether the Reserve Bank had ''lost the plot'' in assuming positive growth at current levels of interest rates.  The National Australia Bank survey, issued yesterday, found that business confidence last month fell a record 21 points to a new record low since the survey began in 1989, while business conditions also fell sharply to levels last seen in the trough of the slowdown in late 2000.  The NAB's chief economist, Alan Oster, said the most worrying aspect of the survey was the very sharp f in forward orders for business a level not seen since 1991.  ''That clearly is also not helping business confidence and will be reflected in future employment and business investment plans with the survey's current reading for capital expenditure again weaker,'' Mr Oster said yesterday.  Mr Rudd told Parliament the buck would stop with him on any forthcoming bad economic news.  ''As Prime Minister of Australia I take responsibility for the good news and the bad news, and when the bad news comes I will take responsibility for that as well.''  The Prime Minister went on to declare ''war on unemployment'' as the Government's first priority.  Earlier this year Mr Rudd had declared war on inflation.  Fears of the economic slowdown impacted heavily on the Australian sharemarket which reversed its gains of Monday to f by 3.5 per cent yesterday.The S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index closed 3.6per cent lower at 3960, while the  Ordinaries lost 3.4 per cent to finish at 3921.  Referring to Monday's issuing by the Reserve Bank of updated growth forecasts, Moodys.com economist Matt Robinson noted that it had estimated the economy would grow by just under 2 per cent in 2009.  ''Under current policy settings, has the RBA lost the plot?'' he asked.  Mr Robinson said if the cash rate were held at its current 5.25 per cent, Australia's GDP growth rate next year would have ''a big fat negative sign in front of it''.  Shadow treasurer Julie Bishop accused the Government of having ''overly optimistic'' growth figures in its Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook, issued last week, which estimated growth at 2 per cent this year.  ''They are overly optimistic, and the fact that the Government has had to use an unusual way of dealing with interest rate reductions in order to come up with a growth figure with a 2 in front of it raises questions.''  The Government introduced into Parliament yesterday legislation to provide for the $10.4 billion economic stimulus plan, consisting of $1400 payments to pensioners, $1000 payments to families, and boosts to first-home buyers' grants.  The Opposition said it would support the Bill provided the economic assumptions underlying the package were made public. 
