Article from: AAP  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  THE Australian dollar has closed lower after a larger-than-expected interest rate cut from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA).  At 5pm (AEDT), the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6651/55, down US1.7c, or 2.5 per cent, from yesterday's close of $US0.6823/28.  During the day, the local currency moved between a high of $US0.6821 and a low of $US0.6605.  The RBA slashed the cash rate by 75 basis points to 5.25 per cent at its November board meeting today, by more than market expectations of a 50 basis points cut.  The decision sent the Australian dollar sharply lower, with the local currency losing more than one US cent in the hour after the RBA's decision was published at 2.30pm AEDT.  RBA governor Glenn Stevens said deteriorating international conditions and falling commodity prices would have a bigger impact on the local economy than originally forecast.  'On balance, it appears likely that spending and activity will be weaker than earlier expected,'' Mr Stevens said.  'Weighing up these international and domestic developments, the board judged that a further significant reduction in the cash rate was warranted.''  CMC Markets FX dealer Tim Waterer said the unit was already suffering due to lower commodity prices and increased global risk aversion, and the RBA decision added further to the gloomy sentiment surrounding the currency.  'It's obviously come as good news for mortgage owners - the market in general took it as a positive - but in terms of the Aussie dollar it certainly wasn't good news,'' Mr Waterer said.  'Given recent comments by the RBA, it was something of a surprise that they were more aggressive than many had forecast and it was no real great surprise that the Aussie came under pressure shortly thereafter.''  Mr Waterer said he expected the Australian dollar to struggle during the overnight session, possibly testing $US0.6600 when European and US markets opened.  'There's a chance when Europe comes in this afternoon they will see the aggressive rate cut and they may sell the Aussie down further,'' Mr Waterer said.  
