(AsiaPulse via COMTEX) -- AZZIF   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Australia's income from the resources boom will decline in 2009 as Chinese economic growth moderates, the world economy slows and the commodity price cycle peaks, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) said today.  The central bank said that Australia's terms of trade, the ratio of export to import prices, had peaked amid a fall in commodity prices.  'Based on these developments, it is clear that Australia's terms of trade have now peaked, and movements in the terms of trade are likely to subtract noticeably from national income growth over the year ahead, after several years when they had made large positive contributions,' the RBA said in its quarterly statement on monetary policy released today.  The central bank also noted that economic growth had slowed in China, a major buyer of Australian bulk commodities.  'In addition there have been increasing signs of a slowing in China and other parts of the developing world,' the RBA said.  'China's annual growth rate dropped back to a still-rapid nine per cent in the September quarter, reflecting both weaker exports and earlier measures to restrain domestic demand.  'Production and exports have softened in a number of other countries in the Asia region over recent months.'  The RBA said it was increasingly clear the global commodity price cycle had peaked.  The fall in commodity prices was expected to lead to a larger fall in Australia's terms of trade than had been previously forecast.  'Recent falls in base metals and rural prices will be reflected almost immediately in Australia's export prices,' the RBA said.  'In addition, spot prices for coal and iron ore - which currently make up a third of the value of exports - have fallen steeply.'  The RBA said spot prices for bulk commodities were below existing contract prices, reflecting slowing demand, particularly in the steel industry, and were likely to decline further.  'With global growth expected to remain weak for some time, and supply expected to pick up due to the high level of mining investment over recent years, contract prices in US dollar terms are assumed to decline significantly from mid 2009 for coal and iron ore exports,' they said.  'Nevertheless, given the earlier large run-ups and the recent depreciation of the exchange rate, prices of many commodities in Australian dollar terms are likely to remain at comparatively high levels.'  (AAP)  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
