The global economic crisis will drain aboout 40 billion Australian dollars ($28 billion) from Australia's tax revenue over three years, cutting deeply into forecasts of budget surpluses, according to government figures released Wednesday.  The surplus for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2009 was forecast in May to reach AU$21.7 billion ($20.4 billion). But latest figures slashed that to just AU$5.4 billion ($3.7 billion).  The midyear review figures also showed that economic growth was expected to slow to 2.0 percent for the year. Growth of 2.75 percent had been predicted when the government released it's annual budget in May.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said tax receipts would fall by around AU$40 billion ($28 billion) over the current year and the following two years below the estimates for the three years released in May. 'There's no point in trying to sugarcoat these figures,' Swan told reporters. 'The global financial crisis has smashed a AU$40 billion ($28 million) hole in the budget. ... And of course, if international conditions were to deteriorate further, then there could be more to come,' he added. 'This is yet another dramatic reminder that we are not immune from the impact of the global financial crisis,' Swan said. 'As we are all aware, this is the biggest global upheaval since the Great Depression.' Swan said other countries were facing recession and budget deficits, but 'Australia is still forecasting modest growth and modest surpluses.' 'We believe that growth will remain positive but we're not immune from more dramatic impacts that could occur, of course that will flow on effects in terms of the surplus and growth into the future,' he said. Unemployment, currently at 4.2 percent, is set to rise to 5.0 percent in the last quarter of the current fiscal year and to 5.75 in the same quarter a year later.  The government announced last month that it would pour AU$10.4 billion ($7.4 billion) into Australia's economy to try to protect it from the global financial meltdown. Most of that money was to come from the projected surplus for the current fiscal year.  The central bank is also trying to stimulate the slowing economy by slashing interest rates. The Reserve Bank of Australia on Tuesday axed 0.75 of a percentage point to set a new benchmark rate of 5.25 percent.  At its last monthly meeting on Oct. 7, the bank's board slashed an entire percentage point.  This is despite inflation in Australia climbing last month to 5 percent - its highest level in more than a decade.
