The Reserve Bank is expected to cut official interest rates from 6.5 per cent to 6 per cent next month, despite the highest annual wage inflation since 1992.  Salary and wage rates grew a record 3.6 per cent in the September year, according to Statistics New Zealand figures out yesterday. The labour cost index rise was much stronger than expected, as workers got higher wages to compensate for rising inflation.  But ANZ Bank economists said wages were not expected to keep rising given a weaker outlook for jobs, with unemployment expected to rise to 4.3 per cent - the worst in almost five years - in figures due out on Thursday. 'If a peak in wage growth has not already occurred, we expect it to be very close,' ANZ Bank said. There would also be less pressure on employers to lift wages in line with inflation because of a big drop in fuel prices in recent months.  But faced with a recession, the Reserve Bank was expected to keep cutting the official cash rate aggressively, down a further 50 basis points next month, Westpac said.  Normally a high wage rate would worry the bank in its fight against inflation. But the international credit crunch was much more dangerous than quarterly wage figures, according to Westpac Bank economists. Bank of New Zealand economists said unemployment was expected to keep rising toward 6 per cent because of the economic slowdown.  Part of the wage rise in the labour cost index reflected a 5 per cent leap in wages for local government workers, while wages also rose for health and community services.  Wellington Regional Chamber of Commerce said though average hourly earnings nationally rose 5.5 per cent in the year, Wellington wage growth was 7.2 per cent, followed by Canterbury, up 5.7 per cent.  Chamber chief executive Charles Finny said anecdotal evidence suggested public sector wages were pushing up private sector wages in recent years. 'Not only are employees hard to find, but businesses are having to pay more to match high paying government departments,' Mr Finny said. Meanwhile, jobless figures due on Thursday are expected to show unemployment rising from 3.9 per cent to up to 4.4 per cent in the September quarter.
