SINGAPORE, Nov 17 (Reuters) - Singapore's non-oil exports fell an unexpected 7.4 percent in October after seasonal adjustments, the biggest drop in five months and the latest evidence that the worsening financial crisis has hit demand for Asian exports. October's fall compared with market expectations for marginal growth of 0.3 percent, and followed a worse-than-expected revised 0.9 percent drop in September.  KEY FIGURES (Percentage change in nominal terms, yr-on-yr) Oct 08 Sept 08 Aug 08 Non-oil Exports -15.3 -5.7 -13.9 Oil Exports 16.1 53.8 103.7 For a full table of data click on COMMENTARY: WAI HO LEONG, ECONOMIST AT BARCLAYS CAPITAL 'The data is accentuated by base effect because last October was a high base, but there is no denying that the environment remains weak, underlying demand remains weak and this is the economic picture. 'I don't think it means a lot to policy because this is the sixth month in a row that exports have declined. The reaction to this situation will be fiscal and the government has also very clearly hinted of a clear fiscal strategy to deal with the situation.'  DAVID COHEN, ECONOMIST AT ACTION ECONOMICs 'This was weaker than expected, reflecting the slowdown in global demand that's likely deteriorating in the fourth quarter due to further financial turmoil that we've seen in recent months. 'It will translate into a further drag on Singapore's exports, leaving growth for the year below the MAS' 3 percent forecast for 2008. And growth is likely to slow further in 2009, in the face of a sharp global downturn that likely won't bottom out until mid-2009. 'We expect Q4 GDP to shrink similiar to the -0.5 percent for Q3.'  VISHNU VARATHAN, ECONOMIST AT FORECAST LTD 'Drugs came out weaker than expected, while electronics is still pretty weak. October PMI indicated that demand will be very weak so this gelled with the whole global outlook that demand has fallen off. 'For the third-quarter final GDP figures, a technical recession will remain due to the poor September numbers. For the fourth quarter GDP, I won't rule out another shrinkage in the economy. Based on the current figures it wouldn't be a surprise if we see another contraction.'  MARKET REACTION: - The Singapore dollar stood at 1.5208/38 against the U.S. dollar versus 1.5206/21 before the announcement. - The benchmark FTSE ST Index was down 0.3 percent at 1,753.98 points during the midday market break before the announcement.  LINK: - To view the full tables, please go to the Web site of the government's IE Singapore at http://www.iesingapore.com/  BACKGROUND: - Singapore's economy probably fell into its a recession in the third quarter for the first time since 2002, official flash estimates showed, as exports and economic activity in the manufacturing, construction and services sectors slowed. - Singapore's central bank moved on Oct 10 to support the weakening economy by loosening monetary policy for the first time in five years by letting the Singapore dollar rise at a slower pace. - On Oct 10, the government cut its 2008 growth forecast for the third time this year to around 3 percent from an earlier estimate of 4 to 5 percent. - Non-oil domestic exports were worth about three quarters of Singapore's $154-billion economy in 2007. - Electronics account for about 40 percent of Singapore's non-oil exports, while pharmaceuticals make up about 10 percent. - The United States is the top purchaser of Singapore's non-oil exports. (Reporting by Saeed Azhar &amp;amp; Daryl Loo; Editing by Jan Dahinten) Keywords: SINGAPORE ECONOMY/EXPORTS (jan.dahinten@thomsonreuters.com; +65 6403 5659; Reuters Messaging: jan.dahinten.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  
