Shares in Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) are trading at a three-and-a-half year low, after broker downgrades dented its safe haven status within the banking sector.  By 1326 AEDT CBA shares had fallen 46 cents or 1.29 per cent to $35.15 - its lowest level since April 2005.  Expectations of a capital raising was also holding down the stock, CMC Markets senior dealer Dominic Vaughan said. 'It's probably right across the share price,' he said. Fund managers are still looking for value on capital raisings, making more bank raisings possible in the five weeks until Christmas. 'If it is trading at a deep enough discount a lot of the funds managers will be quite happy to pick those raisings up,' Mr Vaughan said. CBA has suffered downgrades from analysts over recent weeks, with Citi and Deutsche Bank slapping sell recommendations on the stock on Monday.  This followed concerns over the bank's exposure to troubled companies including ABC Learning Centres and Centro Properties Group, as well as its tier 1 capital ratio which at 7.6 per cent, is now trailing its rivals. 'CBA is viewed as being in the front line,' Austock Securities senior client adviser Michael Heffernan said of exposures to ABC Learning.  It was previously viewed as better than its competitors and with fewer exposures to problem companies.  Some analysts had been a little behind the curve on updating their quarterly valuations for bank stocks, he added. 'I think the speed of the decline in the Australian economy has probably shocked a few people, and the banks are catching up and we're running into a fairly heavy economic environment over the next six months to a year and there's been a re-weighting of these financial sector stocks.' Investors have also switched out of CBA and into National Australia Bank (NAB) following NAB's $3 billion institutional capital raising on Monday, Mr Vaughan said.  NAB restarted trading at $20 on Tuesday after offering new stock to institutions at a 9.7 per cent discount to its share price on Friday.  It was trading down seven cents or 0.35 per cent at $20.08 by 1326 AEDT.  Bank valuations are still very attractive, Messrs Vaughan and Heffernan said.
