LONDON, Nov 12 (Reuters) - Following are analysts' comments on the Bank of England's quarterly inflation report on Wednesday. The BoE forecast the British economy will shrink sharply next year and inflation could fall to just below 1 percent.   ANALYST COMMENT   JAMES KNIGHTLEY, ING FINANCIAL MARKETS   'The Bank of England's Inflation Report leaves us with the clear impression that the 150bp cut in the Bank rate is not the end of the monetary policy stimulus.'   'We have been expecting rates to fall to 2 percent by January, but we now favour rates falling further to 1 percent. Indeed, it is not impossible that the UK's Bank rate falls to 0.5 percent, matching our forecast for the US' Fed funds target rate.   'The BoE stated it has not been made aware of the plans of the Pre-Budget Report, which could be used to announce major tax cuts in just a matter of days. This coupled with interest rate cuts, the plunge in sterling and an anticipated eventual improvement in credit availability as the bank recapitalisation programme takes effect offers hope that the UK will eventually get out of its current mess. However, the data flow is likely to get significantly worse over coming months -- we look for GDP to contract 1.7 percent in 2009, inflation to fall below 1 percent and unemployment to push up to the 2.5-3 million range by 2010.'   ADAM COLE, GLOBAL HEAD OF FX STRATEGY, RBS CAPITAL MARKETS   'The magnitude of the downgrades in the forecasts shows rates coming down more quickly than the markets had expected, so the market is running with that.   'The knee-jerk reaction has been to sell sterling, but I'm not so sure it is such a negative. The BoE has been taking drastic steps and that should balance out the negative impact of interest rate differentials.'   NICOLA CHADWICK, INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIST AT COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA   'It points to very weak growth and it shows that inflation will undershoot target. Of course it doesn't factor in the 150 basis point cut at the last meeting but I would expect the Bank of England to make big further cuts, with as much as 100 basis points of easing in December.'   ROSS WALKER, RBS   'In all likelihood a much more dovish Inflation Report than expected. The 1 percentage point undershoot in the CPI central projection at the two-yr forecast horizon is enormous (note also that the uptrend in the inflation profile at the 2-yr horizon is very shallow - ie, they do not expect a sudden move back to target in year 3).   Even though the MPC's latest projections do not assume any fiscal loosening (expected in the Pre-Budget Report next week) - so the GDP and CPI projections are exaggerated to the downside - any fiscal boost is highly unlikely to raise CPI by a whole percentage point.   The MPC's GDP forecasts show the Bank having moved from being some way above the consensus to below - the central projection appears to be for output to fall throughout 2009. Overall, (this is) as clear a signal as we could have expected that the MPC is braced to cut Bank Rate soon and in size. Our initial take is that the MPC will deliver at least a 50bp cut this month, with 75bp and even a full percentage point, very much live possibilities.'   JONATHAN LOYNES, CAPITAL ECONOMICS   'As we anticipated, November's Inflation Report gives a very strong indication that the Monetary Policy Committee expects to cut interest rates much further over the coming months. The forecast for CPI inflation based on markets' interest rate expectations (of a fall in rates to just below 3%) predicts an inflation rate of around 1% - that is, a full 1% below the 2% target - at the 2 year policy horizon. What's more, the fan chart around the central forecast shows a significant probability of deflation, though we ourselves believe that deflation is more likely than not.   Meanwhile, the forecasts for the real economy have also been revised down sharply, with GDP expected to contract throughout next year. Admittedly the forecasts do not take account of any fiscal loosening in the forthcoming PBR, but it seems very unlikely that this will get in the way of further deep rate cuts. 1% (or below) here we come!'   Keywords: BRITAIN BANK/INSTANT   (David Stamp; London Treasury Desk; ++44 20 7542 7716; Reuters Messaging: david.stamp.reuters.com@reuters.net, email david.stamp@reuters.com)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
