Moody's Investors Service commented that while the agency was taking no rating action at this time, it would expect to upgrade St.George Bank's long-term deposit and debt ratings to Aa1 with a stable outlook, from Aa2, upon the bank's merger with Westpac Banking Corporation. The merger is expected on 1 December 2008, following the vote today by St.George Bank's shareholders in favour of the merger. Such rating action would conclude the rating review commenced on 12 May 2008. At the same time, the rating review of St.George's bank financial strength rating (BFSR) of B would be changed to review for possible downgrade from direction uncertain. This reflects our expectation that St.George's intrinsic financial strength would at best be equal to Westpac's B BFSR, but might have weaker capital and/or liquidity than its new parent for a possibly prolonged period pending a full merger of the two banks. 'St.George Bank's long-term debt and deposit ratings would be upgraded to Aa1 to reflect our expectation that a very high level of support would be available from its new parent, Westpac Banking Corporation,' said Marina Ip, an Assistant Vice President at Moody's Sydney office. The merger is expected to be effected in two stages, first through a scheme of arrangement -- whereby St.George Bank ordinary shares will be exchanged for Westpac ordinary shares on 1 December 2008. St.George Bank would remain a wholly owned subsidiary of Westpac until a 'transfer of business' is completed, which is expected in about a year's time. 'The review on St.George's BFSR would be concluded once there is more clarity on the stand-alone financial profile of the bank under its new owner. We envisage this process, undertaken between St.George Bank and Westpac, to be finalized within the next month' Ip adds. Financial factors which would be considered as part of the review include the bank's stand-alone capital adequacy, funding and liquidity profile, and borrower concentration metrics.  Due to the high level of parental support available to St.George, its deposit and debt ratings are relatively insensitive to any potential changes in the BFSR. This fact underpins their stable outlook.  St.George's short-term ratings were not part of the review and will remain unchanged at Prime-1. At the same time, Moody's announced that upon the merger it would affirm the Aa3 insurance financial strength rating of St.George Insurance Australia with a stable outlook. SGIA's rating will be underpinned by the strong prospect for support from its new owner Westpac. Moody's has previously confirmed that the merger would have no impact on Westpac's ratings. St.George Bank is headquartered in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It reported assets of A$147.4billion (approximately US$116.8billion) at full year 30 September 2008.   Re-disseminated by The Asian Banker
