A SIGNIFICANT retreat of foreign banks from the Australian corporate lending market is under way, which will leave the 'Big Four' domestic institutions scrambling to pick up the slack in a mass refinancing of company debt due to happen over the next 12 months.  The withdrawal of several key overseas players and the likelihood that the remainder will lend substantially less sums than before will also mean the end of what many companies and banks regard as unwieldy large banking syndicates of 10 or more operators.  Depending on their ability to meet corporate Australia's financing needs in the current tough credit environment, the main beneficiaries in order of funding firepower are likely to be Westpac, National Australia Bank, ANZ and the Commonwealth.  The global credit crisis and the freezing of world debt markets has curtailed the scope of big players in the Australian market such as Societe Generale, Royal Bank of Scotland, ABN Amro (now owned by RBoS) and Bank of Scotland International.  The pressing needs of their parent groups in stressed home markets in recent weeks has added to the general reluctance to deploy more capital in Australia.  One of the main factors at play is the large number of Government guarantees on wholesale funding that is driving such players to retreat to their domestic bases almost as a condition of being able to access such financing.  That, in turn, is leading to overseas banks withdrawing the loans they have committed to Australian companies. That has added pressure on those debt-laden companies which have sought to nurse their businesses through a worsening economic environment.  According to research compiled by banking analysts at Merrill Lynch, the total debt raised by Australian companies since 2006 stands at $285 billion. Merrill estimates that as much as $54 billion of that amount is held by what it describes as 'retreating' offshore banks.  'We believe an increasing portion of [these] banks will be looking to collapse troubled syndicates and/or [will] be less willing to refinance existing syndicate positions, placing pressure on corporates seeking funds,' Merrill's banking research team said in a note to clients on Thursday.  'This dislocation represents a potential benefit for major banks to refinance and upsize to good customers at vastly improved margins. However, it also raises the likelihood of potential bad debts collapsing sooner and a need for capital.'  
