Financial markets are predicting that official interest rates will fall by another 1.5 percentage points within five months.   After the Reserve Bank board cut official rates by 0.75 percentage points to 5.25 per cent on Tuesday, professional investors expect the Reserve to take them to just 3.75 per cent by March in the battle to prevent the economy sliding into recession.   The Reserve has now lopped two percentage points off official rates since September in the most aggressive bout of rate cutting since the early 1990s though not all the cuts have been passed on by the banks.   After the Commonwealth Bank announced on Tuesday it would cut its standard variable rate by 0.58 percentage points, Westpac, the ANZ and NAB all announced various cuts yesterday " but none followed through with the full 0.75 percentage point reduction.   Westpac sliced its rates by 0.65 percentage points, the NAB went 0.62 percentage points and the ANZ cut its rates by 0.58 percentage points. All cited higher wholesale lending costs for the reason not to give their customers the full benefit of the Reserves most recent cut.   NAB executive director Ahmed Fahour said his bank would pass on savings whenever it could.   Australias savings gap means we are reliant on borrowing money from offshore wholesale markets, which are still frozen and very expensive, he said.   One institution to pass on all of the 0.75 percentage point cut was the WAs Police and Nurses Credit Union.   We believe that our November rate reductions will be of great benefit to our members with home loans and help to ease the financial pressures that many families are facing today, chief executive Fred Huis said.   Treasurer Wayne Swan urged all banks to pass on in full all rate cuts.   Im certainly disappointed the Commonwealth Bank " and Im sure their customers are disappointed " they didnt pass on the full amount, he said.   Financial markets have fully priced in a 0.75 percentage point cut at the Reserve boards meeting next month, taking official rates to 4.5 per cent. And they believe the Reserve is so concerned about the state of the Australian economy that rates will hit 3.75 per cent by March.   Australias lowest official cash rate was 4.25 per cent during December 2001 and May 2002.   Despite the claims from the major banks about the cost of raising money overseas, international lending costs are continuing to fall. Australias three month bank bill rate is now just 0.55 percentage points above the cash rate, while the key international benchmark, Libor, yesterday retreated another 0.15 percentage points. 
