 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   MGR, ASB, CSR, REU, RJT, RAT, AFG, TSE, TSI, IPL, OSH, ANZ, WBC, SGB,   AAP 2008-11-14   Australia's prudential regulator has tailored its approach for measuring mortgage lending risk to suit the needs of specific financial institutions.  This is despite calls by the major banks that the approach artificially lowers their reported capital adequacy levels.  Banks are now required to hold a set ratio, called tier 1, of capital to their risk-weighted assets - including their mortgage book - to ensure local banks' capital levels are sufficient to absorb unanticipated losses and provide a capital buffer.  The banks and their lobby group, the Australian Bankers Association (ABA), claim that rules for the implementation of the Basel II capital regime set by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) distort international comparisons made between Australian banks and their offshore competitors on capital levels.  APRA maintains it has tailored its approach for different institutions and that the US subprime mortgage crisis vindicated its decision to force local banks to closely align their capital levels to risks of mortgage defaults.  This was a key component behind the measurement of banks' capital levels. 'APRA has made the risk-weights for residential mortgage lending in the standardised (Basel II) approach considerably more granular, reflecting different loan-to-valuation (LVR) ratios, whether loans are standard or non-standard (including 'low doc' loans), and whether loans are covered by lenders' mortgage insurance,' the regulator said in a newsletter.  The US subprime crisis had underlined the advantages of closely aligning capital to risk and of monitoring LVRs in times of housing market stress and falling home prices, APRA said.  As the major banks move to complete their full Basel II accreditation in coming months, APRA has set a minimum tier 1 ratio of eight per cent.  Central to the measurement of tier 1 capital are risk weights applied for residential mortgage lending.  APRA setting a minimum 20 per cent loss given default rate across all mortgage portfolios for all Australian deposit-taking institutions (ADIs). 'By any measure, the 20 per cent requirement is a very conservative measure,' Westpac Banking Corporation's (Westpac) general manager of group finance Peter King said. 'This is considerably higher than what we experience in the early 1990s.' Westpac reported its initial disclosures to September 30 under Pillar 3 of Basel II - the final pillar of the capital adequacy framework for ADIs adopting more advanced risk management approaches.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) reported its Pillar 3 disclosures on Thursday.  National Australia Bank and ANZ Banking Group will make their Pillar 3 disclosures to September 30 at the end of November.  Westpac's risk-weighted assets reflects the application of our risk estimates according to APRA's standard, chief risk officer Andrew Carriline said at a presentation to analysts. 'For mortgages the regulatory expected loss represents a very severe downturn scenario and it would be difficult to envisage losses higher than these levels,' he said. Each of the big four banks has been at pains recently to talk up their tier 1 capital ratios. They claimed that APRA's unduly conservative application of the Basel II rules shaves around two per cent off the ratio achieved under the UK's Financial Services Authority's approach.  CBA on Thursday said its tier 1 ratio was 11 per cent under the UK regulator's regime, compared with 7.5 per cent under APRA's.  NAB said its ratio would move to above eight per cent after Monday's $3 billion capital raising, and would be over 10 per cent under FSA rules.  ANZ said it will move to a ratio of 8.09 per cent after underwriting its dividend reinvestment plan. The ratio would be over 10 per cent under FSA rules.  Alison Bell
