Fewer homes being sold or refinanced means fewer jobs for title insurers, something the workers at First American Corp. in Santa Ana are finding painfully true. The company, which built its name on title insurance before branching out into business information services, reported in an SEC filing last week that it has cut 4,600 jobs nationwide [...] Fewer homes being sold or refinanced means fewer jobs for title insurers, something the workers at First American Corp. in Santa Ana are finding painfully true. The company, which built its name on title insurance before branching out into business information services, reported in an SEC filing last week that it has cut 4,600 jobs nationwide in its title insurance and services business since the end of the first quarter of 2007. Of those, 1,700 were axed in the first six months of this year. Those are big numbers, but First American is a big company.  It had 39,670 workers 18 months ago when it began the cutting. The company did not identify where the jobs that were cut were located. A look at First American&amp;#8217;s second quarter earnings report explains the cuts:  Operating revenues for title operations dropped 27% in the first quarter compared to the same period last year. Operating revenues were down 20% year over year for the first six months. About 16% fewer title orders were closed and the average revenue per order was down 5.7% for the first three months and 4.7% for the half.  The company&amp;#8217;s explanation: &amp;#8220;These decreases were primarily due to a decline in home values and the shift in the composition of new mortgage loans to include more conforming loans and fewer jumbo loans. Also contributing to the decreases in the average revenues per order closed was the increased mix of lower-premium refinance transactions and a decrease in higher-premium resale activity.&amp;#8221; For other recent real estate news&amp;#8230;  5-year O.C. homeowners 4.1% ahead annually Secrets to bargain-priced homes O.C.s homes for sale hit 08 low Wishful thinking on home values?  Tell us O.C.s hottest housing market Foreclosure refugees skipping apartments  House payments a worry around the globe  Sublet glut hits office rents  Long commute?  Good-bye O.C.  
