Q:I believed that Wells Fargo &amp; Co. was recognized as a top bank. Why hasn't its stock done better? -- B.R., via the Internet  Answer: The possibility that every major bank might need additional money from the federal government if credit losses deepen during the recession is weighing heavily on the banking industry.  All banks with more than $100 billion in assets will be required under the Treasury's financial stability plan to submit to a financial 'stress test' to determine whether they have enough capital to continue lending.  Wells Fargo shares (WFC) are down more than 50 percent this year after a decline of 2 percent last year. The fear that shareholders could see their holdings diluted and dividends cut because of government bank-rescue efforts is a drag on Wells Fargo stock, as with many bank stocks.  Wells Fargo recorded a net loss of $2.55 billion in the fourth quarter when it added $5.6 billion to its reserves to cover future loan losses and prepare for its Wachovia Corp. acquisition completed at year-end. The Wachovia deal made Wells Fargo the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets.  Some investors are concerned that credit quality of Wachovia assets is much lower than expected. Upon the Wachovia deal's completion, Moody's Investors Service downgraded Wells Fargo's senior debt rating by two notches, to Aa3, with a negative outlook, which means it could lower it again.  According to Thomson Financial, analysts' ratings on Wells Fargo shares consist of two 'strong buys,' seven 'buys,' eight 'holds,' one 'underperform' and three 'sells.'  Wells Fargo is adept at cross-selling financial products and attracting low-cost deposits. It is also a leader in online banking. These areas should be helped by the bank's increased nationwide stature.  Wells Fargo recently agreed to buy Capital TempFunds, a lender specializing in the staffing business, for an undisclosed amount. With high unemployment, the staffing industry has been struggling.  Net income fell sharply last year, and earnings are expected to increase 76 percent this year and 77 percent in 2010, according to Thomson. The projected five-year annualized return of 8 percent compares with 7 percent expected for money-center banks.  Q:Can I expect better results from my shares of Ariel Focus Fund? -- B.K., via the Internet  Answer: The large-cap fund with a concentrated portfolio of 23 stocks looks for enduring franchises that have strong cash flow and solid balance sheets.  It wants to buy those stocks on the cheap. Turnover is low, with stocks typically held three to seven years. But it isn't operating in an upbeat environment for any stock strategy, and recent results have been painful.  The $25 million Ariel Focus Fund (ARFFX) is down 40 percent over the past 12 months to rank around the midpoint of large value funds. The three-year annualized decline of 14 percent puts it in the lower one-third of its peers.  'We recommend this fund for the value niche in an individual's portfolio,' said Michael Breen, analyst with Morningstar Inc. in Chicago. 'It has potential for short-term volatility, but we're confident in the long-term results and stock-picking ability of its managers and analysts.'  Portfolio managers Charles Bobrinskoy and Timothy Fidler have run this fund since its June 2005 inception.  In the market downturn, they've especially been interested in dominant niche stocks such as Illinois Tool Works Inc. and fallen growth stocks such as eBay Inc., Tiffany &amp; Co. and Dell Inc.  'If you're looking for a broadly diversified, market-mirroring fund, this isn't it,' said Breen, who therefore doesn't recommend it as a core holding in an individual's portfolio. 'It is an active stock-picker's fund that doesn't have a lot of names.'  One-fourth of Ariel Focus Fund assets are in financial services, with other concentrations in industrial materials and business services. Largest holdings include Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Johnson &amp; Johnson, Illinois Tool Works, IMS Health Inc., Aflac Inc., Accenture Ltd., eBay, Omnicom Group Inc., Carnival Corp. and Dell.  The 'no-load' (no sales charge) fund requires a $1,000 minimum initial investment and has an annual expense ratio of 1.25 percent.  Send questions to Andrew Leckey, 555 N. Central Ave., Suite 302, Phoenix, AZ 85004-1248 or  .  
