President Obama speech not able to convince traders now is the time to buy. However, futures could be lower because the stress tests of U.S. banks are set to be unveiled. On Tuesday, stocks rallied following comments from Fed Chairman Bernanke that the nationalization of lenders is not necessary. Earnings and economic news will also impact trading Wednesday with existing home sales due out this morning and a report from Merrill Lynch.   Bank of America (BAC) has already stated that its acquisition of Merrill has cost much more than anticipated. This bad news continued with the release of Merrill's earnings with the financial company's loss $500 million more than anticipated. Merrill lost $15.84 billion in the fourth-quarter and this could put even more pressure on BAC to get further funding from the government. Nonetheless, BAC shares are higher by more than five percent in pre-market trading, near $5 a share. This follows a 20 percent plus gain on Tuesday.  In other earnings news, Wynn Resorts (WYNN) reported that revenues fell to $614.3 million in the quarter, from $711.3 million in the year ago period. The casino operator stated that a 'dramatic deceleration in business' began in October and has hurt results. The recession is impacting everyone with vacation destinations suffering as well. WYNN shares are down more than 15 percent in pre-market trading to a price near $21.50, which is a new 52-week low.  President Obama tried to be optimistic last night in his speech, but he also was forthright in saying we are in a very difficult time. Mr. Obama's plan is to provide a long term solution by spending in infrastructure and alternative energy projects. He also stated that companies receiving aid from the government will be held accountable and will not be given further aid unless they can show details of how they plan on paying the monies back.  Fed Chairman Bernanke will continue his testimony on Capitol Hill today and traders will be listening closely. Though the speech will be the same as it was on Tuesday, the Q&amp;A session will be closely watched by economists and traders alike. The release of existing home sales data this morning could also impact trading. Oil prices could also be impacted by the release of weekly crude inventory levels. Oil prices remain near $40 a barrel with production cuts by OPEC more than offset by the global recession.  Jody OsborneSenior Writer &amp; Options Strategist ~ Your Options Education Site
