'You can't rally with financials going down like this,' Jim Cramer said on Thursday's 'Stop Trading!' segment on CNBC.  More on XOM  Market Activity  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  General Motors Corporation  GM  Exxon(XOM Quote - Cramer on XOM - Stock Picks), however, 'is pushing things up' against stocks such as Citi(C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks), General Motors(GM Quote - Cramer on GM - Stock Picks) and Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks).  The fact that Exxon was downgraded by both Barclays and Bernstein today but is still seeing upside 'means that oil is done going down,' Cramer said. 'The oil bears are going to have to put up or shut up soon, and I think they're going to shut up.'  At the time of publication, Cramer had no positions in stocks mentioned.  Jim Cramer is a director and co-founder of TheStreet.com. He contributes daily market commentary for TheStreet.com's sites and serves as an adviser to the company's CEO. Outside contributing columnists for TheStreet.com and RealMoney.com, including Cramer, may, from time to time, write about stocks in which they have a position. In such cases, appropriate disclosure is made. To see his personal portfolio and find out what trades Cramer will make before he makes them, sign up for Action Alerts PLUS. Watch Cramer on 'Mad Money' weeknights on CNBC. Click here to order Cramer's latest book, 'Mad Money: Watch TV, Get Rich,' click here to order his book, 'Real Money: Sane Investing in an Insane World,' click here to get his second book, 'You Got Screwed!' and click here to order Cramer's autobiography, 'Confessions of a Street Addict.' While he cannot provide personalized investment advice or recommendations, he invites you to send comments on his column by clicking here.  TheStreet.com has a revenue-sharing relationship with Traders' Library under which it receives a portion of the revenue from Traders' Library purchases by customers directed there from TheStreet.com.  
