We still think the market is headed higher " soon The stock market barely held in last week, but many secondary stocks leaped out of bottom formations on huge volume hopefully a good omen for the Dow. We still think the market is headed highersoonon heavy volume. We bought Bank of America BAC @ $5.72 and WuXi Pharmatech (WX) @ at $5.23 and we plan to buy more if they drop 40% from these levels. The stock picks below have good insider buying: Lending Tree, Capital Bank Corp, Plato Learning, and Cincinnati Financial. We would be selling high PE stocks with low yields, and especially high-priced stocks that fit that category. This is because people will sell them first to get their money out, and they can fall so very far in price.   The following stocks have large insider selling and so are vulnerable and we have immediate sell ratings on them: NVR Inc. (NVR) 388.21; Dun &amp; Bradstreet (DNB) 77.71 and Beckton Dickinson (BDX) 70.64- again. Our stock picks are at low historical prices with good charts and some have substantial insider buying as we noted above.   Our stock picks (Based on Friday 2-13-09 closing prices): Cincinnati Financial (CINF)- Again 22.70; Republic Services (RSG) 24.10; P.F. Chang (PFCB) 20.43; Massey Energy (MEE)-Again 15.42; GSI Commerce (GSIC) 10.77; Immunogen* (IMGN) 5.12; Capital Bank Corp (CBKN) 5.50; Quicksilver Resources (KWK) 8.24; Lending Tree (TREE) 3.91; Plato Learning (TUTR) 1.48; and Ivanhoe Energy (IVAN) .66. Our normal buying strategy is to buy 40% of a particular stock now, and 30% more on each 20% decline from your original buy price, to ensure good entry prices. * Cottons Stock of the Week ** We hold a position in the stock or option   Go to stockcharts.com to view the above stock picks   Cotton's Technically Speaking is an online market letter published weekly by technical analyst Joe Cotton. The market letter features stock and option picks, and is based primarily on the analysis of stock and market trends. You can visit his website at www.cottonstocks.net to get more information or subscribe.  The author, Joe Cotton, in many cases has purchased or purchases the stocks or options featured, at prices equal to, lower than, or higher than the recommended price herein. A double asterisk (**) indicates the author either holds an option or stock position in that company as of publishing date. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. This market letter is based on the technical analysis of stock trends by the author and is in no way to be construed as investment advice. For investment advice, consult an investment advisor or certified financial planner. It is imperative that you use stop-loss orders in order to protect yourself against substantial losses in any particular stock-or in the event of a terrorist attack on U.S. soil. 
