 - Vignette Corporation today announced the appointment of Craig Broadbent as Vice President and General Manager, Asia Pacific. With  to 20 years experience in both the sales and service arena, Craig brings a wealth of business creation and management skills to the role. "Craig will be a marvellous asset to Vignette Asia Pacific. With a phenomenal track record in both business development and people management, he will bring strong leadership and direction to this important position," said Mike Aviles, Chief Executive Officer, Vignette Corporation. "I'm very excited about the opportunity to lead Vignette in the APAC region. Vignette is well positioned to take advantage of the current focus on internet and Web 2.0. The recent purchase of Vidavee and a record nine product releases since mid 2007, means Vignette can provide the full range of Web 2.0 technologies," commented Craig Broadbent, Vice President and General Manager, Asia Pacific. "My prime goals are two-fold. Firstly, to make Vignette the first name that any organisation thinks about when they think about 'web' and secondly, to ensure Vignette APAC is the most customer focused software company in the region," he added. Prior to his appointment, Craig was Vice President, Professional Services for Vignette where he was responsible for significant growth in revenue for three years. As a result of this success, his role was expanded to include all of Vignette's maintenance revenues and the Education Services business. Before joining Vignette, Craig worked as Country Manager and Director of Sales and Services at Talagentra where he also served on the Board of Directors. During this time he made a significant contribution to revenue growth closing major deals with companies including SingTel, Flexirent and a major Victorian utilities company. As the Southern Region Professional Services Manager for PeopleSoft between 1997 and 2002, Craig played an integral role in delivering 20% year on year growth. He has also worked with Hansen Technologies, Quality Software Products and National Australia Bank. About Vignette Vignette helps organisations improve the way they connect online with their key audiences by providing software for building great online experiences and managing the content that fuels those experiences. Vignette pioneered the Web Content Management space more than a decade ago, and today our customers include some of the world's most prominent brands in virtually every industry. Vignette is headquartered in Austin, Texas with operations worldwide. Visit www.vignette.com. For more information: Alex Merton-McCann Max Australia +61 2 9954 3492 alex.mertonmccann@maxaustralia.com.au 
