Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez is to meet with the club's owners George Gillett and Tom Hicks in the next week to discuss a contract extension.  The Spaniard's relationship with the two Americans has not always been good and has often resulted in him being linked with other clubs in the last couple of years, significantly Real Madrid.  However, Benitez told the club's official website: 'I received a phone call from Tom Hicks on behalf of George Gillett also. They are talking about a meeting with my advisors and a contract extension. This is very positive news.'  He added: 'We decided to meet in the next week and now my advisors are in contact with them. We haven't spoken about the length of the contract but we talked and we all want to find a solution as soon as possible.  'For me it's easy. I want to stay here - I am where I want to be. It's very simple.'  Benitez signed a new four-year contract in June 2006 but the club are keen to secure his services on a longer deal - and the manager is equally eager to extend his stay.  'My family and I know how good the fans have been with us. The club is going forward and we have the new stadium project. There are a lot of positive things,' he added.  'I want to stay here for a long time. Clearly I would like to be here when the new stadium opens. The other day I was joking that if they offered me a 20-year contract I'd be really pleased.'  Benitez also hopes that by agreeing a new deal he - and everyone else - will be able to concentrate on the team, which is currently second to Chelsea on goal difference in the Barclays Premier League.  'The team is in a very good position, so if I do not have to talk about my contract from now on it will be perfect,' he said.  EDITOR'S CHOICE  PLANS to improve a town centre are in disarray and retailers are being blamed.  MORE than 1,000 people have signed a petition in favour of improvements carried out at a dental surgery.  A BRITISH Red Cross aid worker experienced first hand the plight of those trying to live their lives in a war zone.  DESPITE 20,000 being available, plans to improve access to a railway station are at a standstill.  A DEVOTED step-dad gave a lifeline to his daughter creating an eternal bond between them.  BOY racers in Burnham are being targeted by police as part of a crackdown on nuisance vehicles in the town.  
