Barclays Premier League match against Sunderland at Stamford Bridge, Saturday 1 November, 2008.  Chelsea (4-1-4-1): Cech; Bosingwa, Alex, Terry (c), A Cole (Bridge 36); Mikel; J Cole (Drogba 63), Deco, Lampard, Malouda; Anelka (Mineiro 75).  Manager Felipe Scolari  Sunderland (4-2-2): Fulop; Chimbonda, Nosworthy, Ferdinand, McCartney; Malbranque(Henderson h-t), Whitehead (c), Tainio, Richardson; Waghorn (Diouf h-t), Jones (Cisse 58).  Manager Roy Keane  Referee Martin Atkinson  Environment There's rain at Stamford Bridge on a cold afternoon in west London.  Kit Chelsea - blue shirts and shorts, white socks. Sunderland - red and white striped shirts, black shorts and red socks.  First-half  Kick-off Sunderland  4 Shot Malouda sends the ball skimming along the wet turf and inches past the post after collecting a Lampard pass on the edge of the box.  10 Chance A Cole scrambles for the ball only feet in front of goal after Anelka breaks into the box, but the ball slides rolls behind the line for a goal kick.  13 Foul Ferdinand cuts Anelka to the ground 25 yards out from goal.  13 Shot Lampard drives a freekick into the Sunderland wall before Mikel smashes the rebound into the crowd.  15 Shot Malouda launches a low shot into the arms of Fulop from 20 yards out.  16 Shot Deco sends the ball ricocheting off the bar from 20 yards out.  26 CHELSEA GOAL Alex taps in a J Cole shot which is saved by Fulop, into the Brazilian's path as he runs goal-ward.  29 CHELSEA GOAL Anelka repeats Alex's earlier goal only minutes after the restart as he knocks a Lampard cross in from close range. Alex also gets a touch on the ball before a sliding Anelka finishes the job.  36 Chelsea substitution Bridge replaces a limping A Cole.  39 Foul Tainio knocks J Cole to the ground and receives a yellow card for his efforts.  45 CHELSEA GOAL Anelka finishes off a beautiful Chelsea move as Lampard plays a through-ball for Malouda to knock across the face of goal and into Anelka's path.  Stoppage time 1 minute.  Half-time Chelsea 3 Sunderland 0  Second-half.  H-T Sunderland substitutions Henderson comes on to replace Tainio. Diouf on for Waghorn.  Kick-off Chelsea  51 CHELSEA GOAL Lampard leaps high to head home a J Cole cross to the far post, placing the ball behind the line with ease.  53 CHELSEA GOAL Anelka gets his hat-trick as Chelsea counter-attack and the Frenchman runs onto Malouda's cross. Fulop tries to block the shot but the ball just bounces over him and into the back of the net.  58 Sunderland substitution Cisse comes on to replace Jones.  60 Header Bosingwa breaks down the right and sends a cross in toward Anelka but the ball bounces up and off the head of Malouda before flying over the bar.  61 Shot Mikel sends the ball skimming past the post from 30 yards out as he collects a deflected Malouda shot.  62 Shot Bosingwa sends the ball hurtling in Fulop's arms from 30 yards out.  63 Chelsea substitution Drogba comes on to replace J Cole.  75 Chelsea substitution Mineiro comes on to replace Anelka.  76 Header Malouda heads the ball down and into Fulop's arms after Mikel heads the ball back across the box.  Stoppage time 1 minute.  Unused subs. Chelsea: Hilario, Ivanovic, Kalou, Belletti. Sunderland: Colgan, Bardsley, Reid, Meyler.  Shots on target Chelsea 8 Sunderland 0  Corners Chelsea 4 Sunderland 0  Fouls Chelsea 6 Sunderland 12  Offsides Chelsea 4 Sunderland 1  Comment  Frank Lampard scored his 100th career goal in the Barclays Premier League against Sunderland upon rain sodden grass at Stamford Bridge while Nicolas Anelka achieved his first hat-trick for Chelsea. It was John Terry's 350th start for the Blues and Petr Cech kept his 100th clean sheet for the club in this emphatic win over our northern rivals. Didier Drogba returned to the bench after injuring his knee overseas on Chelsea's Champions League campaign, and Mineiro made his debut in front of the home fans.  See the highlights on Chelsea Plus or the full 90 minutes on Chelsea TV, all from 6pm on Sunday.  
