Tony Adams insists he will get results from his crowd-pleasing Portsmouth team even though luck still refuses to smile on him.   Pompey earned plaudits for their performance in drawing against Fulham in the immediate aftermath of Harry Redknapp's shock departure for Tottenham last week and were stung by a late goal at Liverpool on Wednesday.   They responded with an excellent performance against Wigan on Saturday but, despite their superiority, Adams found fortune against him again as Emile Heskey fired the Latics to a last-gasp 2-1 win at Fratton Park. 'I don't want to be known for being a manager who is entertaining but doesn't get results,' said Adams. 'That's my imprint at the moment. 'I don't know what I've done to deserve the run of luck we've had so early in my managerial career, but I do know the response from the players has been first class and that's a big compliment to me. 'Harry was magnificent here. He had his strengths and weaknesses but he did things his own way and I'm going to be the same. 'And I hate it when I see good players not getting the results they deserve. It's something we have to put right. 'Hopefully I won't still be saying all this in 20 games' time when we are bottom of the league - but I'm not resigning yet.' Adams calmed down after 'going berserk and kicking bottles' in the dressing room following Heskey's stoppage-time winner - the England striker's 100th Barclays Premier League goal.   And he is entitled to the black humour which has sustained him through a chequered career and helped him back on track a few times.   But Adams is determined to prove he can cut it as top man at Pompey, where he was Redknapp's assistant for two seasons.   Even Wigan boss Steve Bruce predicts Adams may never face another game quite like Saturday's encounter again. He said: 'The wet conditions were so difficult that both teams deserved a pat on the back. 'The players were all obviously shattered by it all in the end and once you get tired the game opens up and anything can happen.' Bruce admitted Wigan rode their luck but deserved to do so after a dreadful October in which they had slipped into the bottom three on the back of four consecutive defeats.   Nine-goal Egyptian ace Amr Zaki regained his scoring touch with a penalty just before half-time.   TV replays suggested Pompey's Papa Bouba Diop was unlucky to have been adjudged to have fouled Titus Bramble although the Senegal international - who conceded a late spot-kick at Anfield four days earlier - did make a reckless lunge.   Pompey hit the woodwork four times through Peter Crouch (twice), Diop and Glen Johnson while Wigan's Wilson Palacios (twice) and Emmerson Boyce cleared from the line before the hosts finally scored.   The goal came from substitute Niko Kranjcar, his firm shot in the 82nd minute seemingly rescuing a point - only for gung-ho Pompey to give Antonio Valencia two late chances even before Heskey punished them again. Bruce said: 'I was looking for a response from the players after what we've had the last month and I was delighted with them, but Tony will be all right. 'He's inherited a fabulous squad at Portsmouth and it's a marvellous chance for him. He's had a good grounding here with Harry Redknapp but nothing prepares you for when you are thrown in. 'The great thing is he's English and there was a worrying trend that everyone was going foreign with their managers. Now I think there is only three of the top four plus (Gianfranco) Zola at West Ham. 'Our British coaches need encouraging and Tony getting the job here does just that. It's still a struggle but, yes, you can aspire to the top four. Just do what Harry's just done.' Portsmouth slipped to ninth as a result of the defeat but Adams will this week continue to build his backroom staff.   He has been speaking to former Arsenal defensive partner Martin Keown about a role although first-team coach Joe Jordan is to stay at Fratton Park and could get the assistant's job. Adams said: 'I'm working too hard at the moment and need another person to help put a bit more discipline and concentration in the squad. 'That's all that's lacking and I'm still convinced we'll win far more games than we lose playing like we have been.' 
