U.S. stock futures are lower this morning, pointing to a potentially negative start to the day. Taking a look at currencies and commodities, the greenback is lower against most of its foreign rivals, though gold and crude futures are trading in the black. In focus this morning are Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS), attempting to avoid the fate of their unfortunate sector peers; Treasury Secretary Paulson's urgent pleas for Congress to pass a $700-billion bailout proposition; and the latest earnings report from CarMax (KMX). Checking in on currencies and commodities, the U.S. Dollar Index is down 0.32%, as the greenback ticks lower against most of its foreign rivals. Meanwhile, gold has strengthened in pre-market activity, with the December futures contract up $21.40, or roughly 2.5%, to trade near $886 an ounce. Finally, November-dated crude has also journeyed into the black, trading with a gain of $3 to dawdle near $105.75 per barrel. In the financial sector, Goldman Sachs (GS: sentiment, chart, options) and Morgan Stanley (MS: sentiment, chart, options) have agreed to much tighter Fed regulation as bank holding companies, in an effort to avoid the fate of collapsed or taken-over rivals. Meanwhile, The Wall Street Journal reported that Lehman Brothers has sold its Asian operations to Nomura for $225 billion. Nomura, along with Barclays (BCS), is also in the running to purchase Lehman's European brokerage operations. Ahead of the bell, shares of both GS and MS are poised to open moderately lower than Friday's close.Speaking of financial firms, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson asked Congress to act quickly regarding a rescue plan for U.S. markets, calling the past few weeks on Wall Street 'humbling.' Paulson warned that taxpayers are at risk from the recent fallout in the financial sector, but stated that the $700-billion plan to take over bad mortgage assets from a plethora of companies would be worth the cost. In an interview over the weekend, Paulson opined that there is a 'much greater risk in not doing this than in doing it.' The plan doesn't specify what the U.S. government would receive from financial firms in return for the bailout, but would, if passed, raise the statutory limit on the national debt from $10.6 trillion to $11.3 trillion. Elsewhere, CarMax (KMX: sentiment, chart, options) stepped into the earnings confessional, reporting second-quarter profits of $14 million, or 6 cents per share, compared to $65 million, or 29 cents per share, a year ago. Analysts, on average, expected earnings of 11 cents per share. Meanwhile, revenue for the quarter docked at $1.84 billion, compared to $2.12 billion a year ago. The company's president and chief executive, Tom Folliard, stated that, 'As a result of the unprecedented near-term declines in traffic and sales and the current volatility in the asset-backed credit markets, we are not yet able to make a meaningful projection of fiscal 2009 earnings.' In pre-market activity, the shares of KMX are poised to open significantly lower than Friday's close of $16.50. Earnings PreviewOther companies slated to step into the earnings confessional today include: AutoZone (AZO) and 3Com (COMS), amongst others. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.com throughout the day for more. Economic CalendarThere are no economic reports scheduled for today or tomorrow. On Wednesday, August's existing home sales data and the weekly report on U.S. petroleum supplies are scheduled for release. Thursday brings August's durable goods orders, weekly initial jobless claims, and August's new home sales data. On Friday, we round out the week with a look at the final second-quarter chain deflator and gross domestic product readings, as well as the revised September University of Michigan consumer sentiment index. Market StatisticsEquity option activity on the CBOE saw 2,465,398 call contracts traded on Friday, compared to 1,247,669 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio plunged to 0.51, while the 21-day moving average slipped to 0.78. **The volume data shown above is from the Nasdaq and NYSE exchanges only. It does not include regional volume activity, which means that other daily volume quotes you see may be higher.** Overseas TradingOverseas trading is mixed this morning, with 5 of the 11 foreign indices that we track in positive territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a gain of 1.43%. Asian indices traded broadly higher on Monday, with Australian stocks leading the way after the country's securities-market regulator imposed a blanket ban on short selling. Meanwhile, Chinese stocks surged following last week's government unveiling of initiatives to shore up the country's ailing stock markets. Elsewhere, Australia's benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index surged 4.5% to 5,020.50 in a shortened session. Across the pond in Europe, regional indices were trading off their lows of the session, but remained locked in a tight range. In the financial sector, banks initially traded lower, but rebounded amid heavy brokerage-firm activity. Specifically, BNP Paribas climbed 2.5% after Merrill Lynch upgraded the lender to 'buy' from 'neutral,' saying the U.S. initiative to move toxic assets off banks' balance sheets should create a 'flight to quality' in the medium term. Meanwhile, UBS (UBS) rose 4% after it was upgraded to 'buy' from 'hold' at Royal Bank of Scotland. The broker said it expects UBS to face a tough second half, but that 2009 should present an inflection point for the stock as the focus returns to its core wealth-management business. The U.S. Dollar Index (DX/Y) plunged 1.8% to 77.41 on Friday, as the dollar fell versus most of its foreign rivals. Currency investors were troubled by the potential impact of the U.S. government plan to take on the toxic assets plaguing the financial sector. Against this backdrop, the euro rose to $1.448, while the dollar rose to 107.28 versus the yen.The futures contract on the 30-year bond (US/1 
