(RTTNews) - Canadian stocks stormed back from early losses to finish Tuesday's session only slightly negative as investors swooped in to pick up deeply discounted energy and gold stocks in late-afternoon dealing.Coming off a second drop of more than 500 drop in the past week, the S&amp;amp;P/TSX Composite Index fell 27.26 points to 12,2246.77. At its worst levels of the day, the main index dropped through support to a 2-year low below the 12,000 mark.The U.S. Federal Reserve announced Tuesday that it has decided to hold short-term borrowing rates steady, ignoring calls for an interest rate cut that were prompted by the latest Wall Street turmoil. While recent signs of strain in the financial markets encouraged speculation that the Fed might lower interest rates to stimulate the economy, the central bank chose to stay the course for now.In its accompanying statement, the Fed left the door open to a rate cut later this year by acknowledging that economic growth may have weakened in the past few months. Gold stocks rose in response, with investors considering the precious metal's hedge value against potential US dollar weakness.The Gold Index rose more than 3 percent. Tech stocks were also a bright spot, picking up 1.6 percent.The Financial Index dropped 2 percent, extending its losses from the previous session. All six of Canada's big six banks finished in the red, led by Royal Bank (RY.TO).Financials were in focus throughout the day, with traders awaiting word on the fate of troubled insurance giant AIG (AIG), which earned a series of downgrades from rating services.The rating downgrades thus hamper the company's bid to raise capital in a bid to stay afloat and could also force the company to post collateral in the billions of dollars on certain complex derivative transactions known as swaps.Equities markets worldwide were shocked on Monday when venerable Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy and Merrill Lynch was taken over by Bank of America for $50 billion.Energy stocks moved fractionally lower. Crude oil closed sharply lower for the second straight day on Tuesday and ended below the $92 mark. Light sweet crude fell to $91.15 per barrel, down $4.56 on the session. Oil fell as low as $90.55 in the opening minutes of the session.Miners stayed on the defensive as base metals prices dropped on concerns about global demand. Thompson Creek Metals (TCM.TO) continued its downward slide, dropping almost 10 percent.According to Stats Canada, Canadian manufacturing sales continued their broadly-based advance in July, rising 2.7% to $54.1 billion, a fourth consecutive monthly increase. Manufacturers last reported four consecutive months of growth in the first half of 2002.
