Johannesburg - The rand was firmer against the dollar in Wednesday morning trade as the run on risky assets subsided somewhat overnight. However, global markets are likely to remain cautious and the rand continue to eye moves in the Dow and the euro versus dollar rate. By 8.35am the rand was bid at R8.1027 against the dollar from a previous close of R8.1294. It was bid at R11.5047 to the euro from a previous R11.4530 and at R14.4860 to the pound from R14.4681 before. The euro was bid at $1.4209 from $1.4103 overnight, while gold was quoted at $783.13 per ounce from $775.95 overnight. RMB analysts said in their morning report that while the Fed surprisingly kept interest rates unchanged, the $85 billion bailout of insurance giant AIG announced late on Tuesday night is the more important story in that it brings relief from the intense market strain of the past two days. 'US equities rallied ahead of the news, with the Dow back above 11 000 last night, and we can expect further gains into today - helped also by reports that Barclays will take over certain of Lehman's divisions. Risks then of a run on risky assets has reduced,' RMB noted. They added that the rand is reflecting this most strongly against the euro, with the local unit down to under R11.50 to the euro overnight and likely to trade just over the level on Wednesday. The dollar versus rand is constrained by the bounce in the greenback. They expect the rand to trade in a lower range than the past few days at r8.05 - R8.20. Dow Jones Newswires reported investors are cheering the massive US rescue of AIG. The move reduces anxiety in the market, helping more risky assets. European bourses are expected to bounce back, with less need for safety pressuring government bonds. The euro, oil and gold are slightly higher. The euro is gaining against the dollar and yen, after the AIG rescue reduced need for safety. Technical charts predict more euro gains. The dollar rose broadly on Tuesday as the US Federal Reserve left interest rates on hold and markets grew hopeful for a solution regarding the cash-flow problems at AIG. The Fed's policy-setting committee decided to keep rates steady at 2.0 percent after its meeting, despite market expectations that it would cut by at least a quarter percentage point to aid battered US stock markets. 'Expectations were about 80 percent odds by the market that the Fed would cut, but they stood their ground, giving the dollar a little bit of a boost (against the euro),' said Thomas Benfer, director of foreign exchange at BMO Capital Markets. 'But as far as a real strong correlation between what's going on with the Fed and how the dollar will move, I still say it's tenuous at best.'
