The US dollar rose to a one-year high against the euro on Thursday, pushed up by overnight losses in crude oil and as heightened market volatility convinced US investors to bring overseas money back home.Asian stocks fell broadly, with Tokyo's Nikkei share average retreating 1.3 percent to a six-month low and the MSCI Asia Pacific ex-Japan index down 1.1 percent to its lowest since October 2006.Bank stocks suffered bigger losses after US investment bank Lehman Brothers posted a record quarterly loss of $3.9 billion. The dismal results from Lehman, which is trying to shed assets to stay alive, sent a message to investors that the year-long global credit crisis will likely claim more victims before ending. Indications of increased volatility in stock and bond markets as well as economic deterioration in just about every part of the world has led investors to cut back on overseas risk in their portfolios, supporting the dollar. 'The market's direction points toward dollar buying,' said Hideaki Inoue, chief manager of forex trading at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Bank in Tokyo. 'What we are witnessing now is position adjustments that are part of a bigger picture, one in which investors are pulling back money from risk assets,' Inoue said. The euro briefly fell below $1.3950 to the lowest since September 2007, with investors focused for now on rapidly slowing economic growth outside of the United States. However, the dollar fell against the yen, down 0.3 percent to 107.47 yen Against the yen, the euro tumbled 0.5 percent to 149.90 yen.The dollar for the most part has been rallying since crude oil prices peaked at $147.27 a barrel in mid July and then fell sharply.The US currency received an added boost by the US government's takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac at the weekend, which helped calm some fears of further widespread bond market losses.Still, worries about troubles at other financial institutions continued to dog bank stocks. Shares of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group fell 4 percent and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the biggest-earning bank globally, was off 1 percent.In Australia, the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index fell 1.3 percent, led by shares of some of the country's top banks, such as National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank of Australia. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index declined 0.8 percent, down for a third day and heading toward a one-year low touched on Friday.The October US light crude contract edged up 78 cents to $103.36 after hitting a five-month low on Wednesday as the dollar rallied. Crude would need to trade above $109 a barrel to break a steep downward trend in prices that has held since July 14.The widespread liquidation of commodity-related trades also hit the gold market as risk taking took a back seat to the need for stability. Gold briefly dropped to the lowest since October 2007 in the spot market of $748.60 an ounce, but bounced to $754.10 an ounce. 'Investor interest has diminished because of the movement of the US dollar and the oil price,' said David Moore, analyst at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. - Reuters 
