NEW YORK (Reuters) - Illinois' attorney general on Thursday asked the U.S. Justice Department to reverse its support for a federal policy banning states from regulating nationally chartered banks, less than a month after the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the issue.  Lisa Madigan, the attorney general, said she asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and Solicitor General-designate Elena Kagan to reject a Bush administration policy limiting states' ability to enforce consumer protection and anti-discrimination laws against national banks.  Many states have complained that consumers, and especially mortgage borrowers, are harmed by the preemption of state law when federal rules are more lenient for lenders.  In the U.S. Supreme Court case, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, is challenging a preemption policy adopted by the federal Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 'It is illogical to stymie state enforcement of laws intended to protect the citizens who have been so gravely injured by the unfair practices of many participants in the home mortgage industry,' Madigan wrote in a letter to Holder and Kagan.  The U.S. Supreme Court on January 16 agreed to review a ruling by a New York federal appeals court that the state could not enforce its own anti-discrimination laws against national banks such as Bank of America Corp (BAC.N  Former New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer originally brought the case. A national bank group, the Clearing House Association, supports preemption of state law. The U.S. Supreme Court is expected to rule by the end of June.  In October, Madigan and 10 other state attorneys general won an $8.4 billion settlement to provide relief to nearly 400,000 customers of Countrywide Financial Corp, a mortgage lender acquired three months earlier by Bank of America.  The case is Cuomo v. The Clearing House Association LLC, U.S. Supreme Court, No. 08-453.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel; Editing by Gary Hill)  Thomson Reuters 2009 All rights reserved
