At 8:14 a.m., an officer issued a criminal trespass warning to a non-student prohibiting them from Texas Tech property.  At 8:04 a.m., an officer investigated a burglary at the Texas Tech Plaza Skyview offices. The manager's door was pried open and a safe was reported stolen.  At 9:05 a.m., an officer investigated a traffic accident at the intersection of Main Street and Flint Avenue.  At 12:54 p.m., an officer investigated a report of criminal mischief to a student's vehicle in the Z-6A parking lot. An unknown person carved a star into the student's vehicle.  At 2:40 p.m., an officer investigated criminal mischief in the Z4-P parking lot. A vehicle was keyed.  At 3:07 p.m., an officer investigated a hit-and-run accident which occurred in the Z6-A parking lot. An unattended vehicle was struck and no injuries were reported.  Feb. 10  At 10:40 a.m., an officer investigated a theft which occurred in the Art building. A camera tripod stand was reported stolen.  At 11:54 a.m., an officer investigated a theft in the Art building. A Cannon camera and a tripod were reported stolen.  At 12:51 p.m., two officers issued a criminal trespass warning for all Tech property to a non-student for soliciting money from the customers at the Bank of America.  At 1:31 p.m., an officer investigated a report of criminal mischief at the Ranching and Heritage Center. A window and door frame were damaged.  At 2:25 p.m., an officer investigated an accident. An unattended vehicle was struck in the C-16 parking lot, and the front bumper was damaged. No injuries were reported.  At 3:40 p.m., an officer investigated a theft of four textbooks in the Tech Health Sciences Center pathology department.  At 5:08 p.m., an officer investigated a hit-and-run in the HSC Academic Classroom Building parking lot. The person damaged the driver-side mirror and fled the scene. No injuries were reported.  At 6:34 p.m., an officer investigated a theft at the Student Recreation Center. An iPhone and a wallet containing several items were reported stolen.  
