Malik Ibrahim takes a deferred adjudication deal with prosecutors for making false statements leading up to his theft and fraud trial.  By Danny Gallagher, McKinney Courier-Gazette  A California man accused and acquitted of stealing hundreds of thousands of dollars from the father of a NASCAR driver from McKinney took a deferred adjudication deal on his remaining perjury charges.  Malik Ibrahim, who also goes by the names Adulmalik Ado-Ibrahim, Malik Ado-Ibrahim, and Prince Malik Ado-Ibrahim, entered into a probation agreement with prosecutors on one lesser perjury charge in exchange for dismissing the remaining six aggravated perjury charges, according to Collin County court records.  Ibrahim's agreement places him on 18 months of probation and orders him to pay a $2,500 fine in connection with his charge. Deferred adjudication is a special form of probation that allows a defendant to serve time for their charge without admitting guilt. The defendant is placed on a period of supervision and must also meet several other contractual obligations that could include community service hours and court-ordered counseling, according to the Texas Bar Association.  The Collin County District Attorneys Special Crimes Unit accused Ibrahim of stealing approximately $750,000 from Robert Richardson Sr. of McKinney. Witnesses said Ibrahim claimed he would put Richardson Sr.s money in a Bank of America account and use it to match corporate sponsorships to fund races for his son, NASCAR Busch Series driver Robert Richardson Jr. A grand jury indicted Ibrahim on a first-degree felony count of theft over $200,000 and a second-degree felony count of securing execution of a document by deception and filed the case in 380th District Court. A jury later acquitted him of all charges in January of 2008.Ibrahims perjury charges stemmed from an indigence hearing and a deposition he gave leading up to his theft and deception trial last January. The perjury, theft and deception charges were also filed by the Collin County District Attorneys Special Crimes Unit, according to court records.  The SCU alleged Ibrahim made several inconsistent statements regarding plane tickets he purchased to Malaysia during a deposition in a separate civil case filed by Precision Preparation, a liability company in North Carolina. He claimed the tickets were paid through an account and given back to an unidentified woman and in another instance, he claims he didnt know if they were paid through another company, according to the indictment.  The SCU also claims he gave conflicting testimony in two district courts about whether he owned a brokerage account, about $200,000 he received from another unidentified woman that he claims he placed in an off-shore account, about money he paid to an unidentified man in his criminal trial and about a masters degree he claims to have received from the University of Southern California.  Contact Danny Gallagher at dgallagher@acnpapers.com. 
