After more than five years at the helm of the Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Harry Garewal is resigning to pursue other opportunities. My intent was never to be there as a career-ending position, Garewal said. About two years ago, he began succession planning with one of his staffers, who then moved to California, ending Garewals plans to transition at that time. He now has held the post for five and one-half years.  With a background in financial turnarounds for Fortune 500 companies, Garewal took over the chamber to get the nonprofit financially on its feet. But those efforts have been more akin to a startup, he said.  Membership was about 400 at the time, now reaching 600 members, said Robert Espiritu, chairman of the board for the chamber and director of marketing for American Express.  Membership had topped 650 at one point, but the economy caused many members not to renew, Garewal said. Last year we interviewed 104 of our membership and they said they wanted to hold on because of major uncertainty in the economy, he said. We said this is not the time to pull away that they needed to be getting more involved. Corporate membership fees vary, depending on company size. When Garewal first joined the chamber, it had 33 corporate givers in the $5,000 to $15,000 range. Today, it has 49.  He said companies are looking for ways to tap into the $27 billion Hispanic buying power. There are 35,000 Hispanic-owned businesses in Arizona, and Hispanics now make up 40 percent of the market, Garewal said. In business, green is the only color that matters, he said. Espiritu said the chamber will conduct a national search for Garewals replacement. His resignation is effective March 31.  While head of the chamber, Garewal tripled the groups budget to reach $1.3 million in annual revenue. It currently is in a break-even position as new revenue streams have been added.  For example, a partnership with US Bank that refers members to financial services generated $40,000 over the past few years. We dont discriminate against other financial institution members, Garewal said. If Wells Fargo has as better interest rate, obviously we will take them there. We will work on behalf of our clients and our members. The chamber has generated additional revenue by building partnerships with municipalities, such as the city of Phoenix and the U.S. Department of Justice, for educational seminars.  Employed staff at the chamber also grew, from four when he first joined the nonprofit to 12.  Garewal said he plans to take two or three weeks off to solidify his next career track. Im still having some conversations, he said. Meanwhile, he is busy as a board member of St. Josephs Hospital and Medical Center. On Thursday, he was in San Francisco at a training session with Catholic Healthcare West board members.
