Pressure is mounting in statehouses across the country to reform building codes and improve energy efficiency. But for commercial office developers, the push for greater efficiency in their buildings may mean a drop in their profits.  by NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, found that a 30 percent improvement in energy efficiency over code -- a benchmark often cited by prominent efficiency advocates -- is not financially feasible for most new, Class A office construction.   Given the costs of achieving that target, many developers would not be able to recoup expenses from energy efficiency savings for at least a decade, the study said.   But political and social convictions that favor increased energy efficiency regulation are convincing lawmakers to move quickly on new legislation without heeding some of the drawbacks, said Thomas J. Bisacquino, president of NAIOP. 'The business case for sustainable development is getting stronger and stronger,' he said, but 'it is important that policymakers and others realize the economic consequences that imposing mandated targets will have on the development industry.' The study examined common energy efficiency measures such as insulation, lighting and HVAC equipment in a prototype Class A, low-rise office building of 95,000 square feet, which ASHRAE said is representative of about 50 percent of total new Class A commercial construction.   The measures were modeled by ConSol, the California-based energy modeling firm, for their energy-saving potential over the ASHRAE 90.1-2004 building code standard. The building prototype was simulated for performance and energy cost differences in three U.S. climate zones, represented by Baltimore, Chicago and Newport Beach, CA.   None of the models returned a 30 percent energy reduction within a 10-year payback period, which wasnt surprising, said Don Winston, vice president of technical services for The Durst Organization, the property firm that is developing the Bank of America tower in New York. 'Achieving these reductions off of the 2004 standard is going to be difficult, if not impossible,' Winston said. And he added, 'Most people want to see quicker paybacks than 10 years.' Extreme improvements in energy efficiency are easier to achieve in older buildings that were built to less rigorous codes, said Mike Hodgson, president of ConSol. 'This study is taking ASHRAE 90.1-2004 as the baseline and then trying to make it 30 percent more efficient,' he said. In simulations, the Chicago model performed the best, achieving 23 percent energy savings with a payback period of about nine years. The Baltimore model achieved 21.5 percent savings with an 11-year payback period, while the Newport Beach model reached energy savings of about 16 percent with a payback period of more than 12 years.   Though energy forecasting is an inexact science -- the modeling did not account for non-regulated loads or fine-tuning performance adjustments like peak load shifting -- the forecasts were found to be 'reasonable' when compared against office building performance data compiled by the government, the study said.   Renewable energies, including solar, were not factored into the models due to long payback periods that the study called 'economically impractical.' But that could be changing. The economic recovery plan signed into law last week by the president increases funding for the Department of Energys Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy ten-fold, to $16.8 billion. And the federal government last year commissioned two national laboratories to work directly with the building sector in developing cost-effective renewable technologies for buildings. The goal there is to make zero-net energy commercial buildings viable by 2025. 'The industry wants to be proactive in terms of reducing energy. Hopefully the government will stimulate new technologies,' Bisacquino said. 'We can only use whats out there.' 
