 An innovative online banking scheme which combines finance and social networking may make users more susceptible to identity theft, according to an industry expert.  US-based company SmartyPig has teamed up with ANZ Bank to deliver an electronic version of the time-honoured piggy-bank, whereby users can set up a savings account and make it public on Facebook or Myspace, allowing friends and family to contribute to a savings goal.  SmartyPig users flag savings goals on their internet profile.  The account holder can then choose to redeem the saved cash plus interest or purchase a gift card to be used at ANZ retail partners, including JB Hi-Fi, Harvey Norman and Myer.  SmartyPig co-founder Jon Gaskell said the scheme was designed to give users the opportunity to rethink their savings habits. 'It not only allows people to get on the right path financially, it is a great learning tool,' Mr Gaskell said. 'It provides people with the opportunity to rework the way they look at money, at a time when it couldn't be more important to do so.' However, Queensland University of Technology Professor of Telecommunications Adrian McCullagh said the combination of finance and Facebook posed security threats, different to traditional online hacking.  While simply knowing the account name and the BSB and account numbers is insufficient to compromise the security of an online bank account, Mr McCullagh said its combination with Facebook could allow criminals to extract further information for identity theft, in order to eventually get access to actual funds. 'Gen-Ys are typically more naive in relation to their personal information than other generations,' he said. 'Experienced social engineers, with a criminal bent, could utilise the Facebook environment to extract information which may actually allow them to exploit that bank account. 'It's not hacking using technological tools, it's hacking using social engineering tools. 'Once you are away from a face-to-face interaction you must be very careful about what you disclose.'
