Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation announces that a new class action lawsuit has been commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of certain investors in Bank of America Corporation ('Bank of America' or the 'Company') (NYSE: BAC). The original action has been brought on behalf of all Bank of America shareholders who held shares as of the record date of October 10, 2008 and were entitled to vote with respect to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., Inc. ('Merrill Lynch') by Bank of America at a December 5, 2008 special meeting of Bank of America shareholders and were damaged thereby, and on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the securities of Bank of America in the period from January 2, 2009 through January 20, 2009 (the 'Class Period'). The new action has been brought only on behalf of those who purchased or otherwise acquired the securities of Bank of America in the period from July 21, 2008 through January 20, 2009 (the 'Extended Class Period'). No class has yet been certified in these actions. Members of the Class will be represented by the lead plaintiff and counsel chosen by the lead plaintiff. If you wish to choose counsel to represent you and the Class, you must apply to be appointed lead plaintiff no later than March 23, 2009 and be selected by the Court. The lead plaintiff will direct the litigation and participate in important decisions including whether to accept a settlement and how much of a settlement to accept for the Class in the actions. The lead plaintiff will be selected from among applicants claiming the largest loss from investment in the Company during the Class Period. You may contact Brower Piven (through hoffman@browerpiven.com or 410/986-0036) to answer any questions you may have in that regard.   The complaint in the initial action accuses the defendants of violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by virtue of the Company's failure to disclose during the Class Period the true financial condition of Merrill Lynch, a company acquired by Bank of America. The complaint in the newer action that has created the Extended Class Period does not include claims for holders of Bank of America shares on October 10, 2008 who were entitled to vote with respect to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America at a December 5, 2008 special meeting of Bank of America shareholders, but does claim that the Company's July 21, 2008 representations of the worst being behind on value declines was the start of a period of deception by Bank of America as to its prospects. According to both complaints, beginning on January 16, 2009, after the Company revealed the true extent of the deterioration of Merrill's financial condition, as evidenced by Merrill Lynch's $15 billion fourth quarter loss, the value of Bank of America's stock declined significantly.   If you have suffered a net loss for your shares held on October 10, 2008, or for all transactions in Bank of America Corporation securities during the Extended Class Period, you may obtain additional information about these lawsuits and your ability to become a lead plaintiff by contacting Brower Piven at www.browerpiven.com, by email at hoffman@browerpiven.com, by calling 410-986-0036, or at Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation, The World Trade Center-Baltimore, 401 East Pratt Street, Suite 2525, Baltimore, Maryland 21202. Attorneys at Brower Piven have combined experience litigating securities and class action cases of over 40 years. If you choose to retain counsel, you may retain Brower Piven without financial obligation or cost to you, or you may retain other counsel of your choice. You need take no action at this time to be a member of the class.   CONTACT: Charles J. Piven Brower Piven, A Professional Corporation Baltimore, Maryland 410/986-0036 Email Contact 
