Voice of the Mid-Columbia   Kennewick, Pasco and Richland, Wash.    A Pasco man has been ordered to do 45 days in jail for charging $4,000 to fictitious UPS accounts so he could send dozens of checks around the country. Alejandro Galvan Jr., 24, entered a modified guilty plea in Benton County Superior Court to first-degree theft. However, prosecutors dismissed 10 counts of unlawful issuance of a bank check alleging that Galvan knew there wasn't enough money in his accounts to cover the $358,000 he sent.  'These counts involve multiple bank accounts from different states and forged/unlawful checks payable to individuals in various states,' Deputy Prosecutor Terry Bloor wrote in a court document. 'Those counts are better dealt with by the U.S. Attorney. Our office will refer those counts for a possible indictment to the U.S. Attorney and/or FBI.' Galvan's Alford plea to the theft means he denied committing the crime but believed prosecutors had enough evidence to convict him. He can do the jail time on work release if eligible, according to the court. In June 2008, Galvan started dropping by The UPS Store in Kennewick two to three times a week to mail 50 to 90 envelopes, court documents said. No return address was listed on the envelopes, a UPS manager told police. Galvan filled out forms at the store claiming he had UPS accounts under the names James Morrison and Harvey Makino, court documents said. These accounts were discovered to be fictitious after the charges were made, documents said. After the scheme came to light in late August, UPS intercepted all of Galvan's mail sent through it: 14 envelopes on Aug. 21, 17 on Aug. 24, 54 on Aug. 25 and 44 on Aug. 28. The envelopes contained checks written on four different Bank of America accounts. The checks ranged from $3,000 to $7,500, with addresses from Alaska to Texas to Maryland. The amount of restitution Galvan owes to The UPS Store hasn't yet been determined. Nurse accused of pill theft A nurse is accused of stealing about 130 oxycodone tablets from Kennewick General Hospital to help relieve her husband's pain from a recent operation. Laura Lane Nicholson, 52, of Richland is charged with obtaining a controlled substance through fraud. She denied taking the large quantity of pills, and pleaded innocent. Prosecutors allege the theft occurred between Aug. 1 and Sept. 18, when Nicholson was working at the hospital. 'During that time 18 of (Nicholson's) patients had their prescribed oxycodone accessed by her, but the drugs were not administered to those patients,' court documents said. Nicholson, when interviewed by Kennewick police, reportedly admitted to taking about three to four tablets a month. She has been disciplined by the California state Board of Registered Nursing for similar offenses in 2004 and 2005, documents said. Nicholson's trial is set to start April 20.  @Nyx.CommentBody@
