By BRIAN PEARSON  Business Editor  Mounds of red earth mark the site of a Citizens National Bank branch going up at the corner of Grande Boulevard and Old Jacksonville Highway.  Miles away off U.S. 64 just west of Loop 323, workers are clearing bamboo and soon will begin work on a new Southside Bancshares Inc. branch.  Across town at Fifth and Beckham streets, the finishing touches are being put on a new Bancsouth branch.  The branches soon will add to what local bankers say is Tyler's place as a regional financial juggernaut, the largest between Dallas and Shreveport and Tulsa and Houston.  Every year on June 30, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. takes a snapshot of bank deposits throughout the country.  The most recent snapshot of Tyler area banks, taken June 30, 2008, shows a 28.5 percent increase in deposits from June 30, 2004. There were about $3.37 million in deposits on that date last year, compared with $2.62 million on June 30, 2004.  Meanwhile, the number of banking offices grew 22.6 percent, to 76 from 62.  About a dozen financial institutions recently have either opened new banks, such as the First Bank and Trust branch that opened last year on Old Jacksonville Highway, or announced plans for new branches in the Tyler area.  Sam Dawson, president and CEO of Southside Bank, which has two new locations in the works in the Tyler area, said banking here is like a heart that circulates money throughout a growing community.  Other vital organs include the medical community, retirement industry and a growing college presence. 'We really are a medical center, and now we're a financial center,' said Sam Dawson, president and CEO of Southside Bank, which has two new locations in the works in the Tyler area. 'Also, we're a retirement center. You can play golf here year-round.' Dawson attributed the rise of the Tyler area's banking industry to the diverse, growing economy, with each element working together as a symphony in crescendo. 'The economy in Texas and East Texas has been strong for years,' he said. 'Tyler has really had a growth spurt in the last two or three years, and it's a great place to do business. That brings people to the area. It's a well-kept secret that East Texas is growing, particularly Tyler.' He also pointed to a growing college community, with 10,000 enrolled at Tyler Junior College and 6,000 at The University of Texas at Tyler. 'When you're talking about 16,000 students, you're talking major university,' Dawson said. Add to that a cost of living that's low relative to the rest of the nation, and the growth potential is explosive, with the financial industry at the center, he said.  But does Tyler have too many banks?'If it were left to us, we'd probably say there are enough here,' Dawson said with a chuckle.  Tyler's largest bank, Southside, which has 45 banking offices, including sites in the Metroplex and Austin, has two new branches in the works. One in Gresham is expected to open by mid-summer, while the branch on U.S. 64 could be finished by year's end, Dawson said.  The Tyler-based Southside recently reported a record net income for the final quarter of 2008.  The bank reported a net income of $10.4 million for the final three months of the year, a $5.5 million increase and more than double compared with $4.5 million in net income for the same period in 2007, according to the news release.  Net income for the year marked an 84 percent jump from 2007, going to $30.7 million from $16.7 million.  There were 26 banks and 15 credit unions doing business in the Tyler area last year, according to the FDIC. The banks had 83 branches in all of Smith County.  By comparison, Longview had 18 banks, with 38 branches.  Based on deposits, the Tyler area's second-biggest bank was Regions, followed by Bank of America, Chase, Austin and Capitol One, according to the FDIC figures for June 30, 2008.  Citizens National Bank recently broke ground on a 6,200-square-foot branch at Grande Boulevard and Old Jacksonville Highway.  The facility, which joins two other Tyler branches, will employ up to 10 and be open in August, according to a news release. 'We look forward to being a part of this important growth corridor of Tyler as this new branch symbolizes long-term growth for us in East Texas,' said Brad Tidwell, president and CEO.  Citizens National Bank has 19 locations across East Texas and has been in operation for 78 years.  Meanwhile, Arp State Bank is undergoing an expansion as well as a name change to American State Bank.  The change was announced in September 2008, said Steve Wiggs, bank president and CEO. The bank continues in Arp as Arp State Bank but will be renamed American State Bank later this year.  The New Chapel Hill, Tyler and recently acquired Texarkana locations will operate as American State Bank. In addition, a new Tyler location at Old Jacksonville Highway and Rice Road will be American State Bank. Bank of Tyler recently opened a location on Old Jacksonville Highway.  Other financial institutions that opened or began work on new locations in recent years include Austin, Guaranty, Capital One, First Convenience and First National, according to Morning Telegraph archives.  Not only are banks becoming more plentiful in Tyler, at least one bank apparently is a great place to work.  Austin Bank was placed among 100 businesses on a list of best companies to work for in Texas.  The bank was recognized Jan. 28 at the Texas Association of Business 2009 Annual Conference in Austin.  The award is a collaborating project of Texas Monthly magazine, the Texas Association of Business, the Texas State Council of the Society for Human Resource Management and Best Companies Group, according to a written statement.  Companies statewide entered a two-part process to be considered for the honor. 'Austin Bank is especially proud to receive this honor because it came from the input of our employees,' said Jeff Austin III, vice chairman of the board at the bank. 'The success of our bank has been built by a wonderful team of dedicated, professional employees. Our employees are the face of Austin Bank not only within the bank going the extra mile to serve our customers but also out in our communities helping others. 'Every employee is encouraged to continue learning and developing their career, and to become involved in their local community in order to make the best place to work also be the best to live and the best place to bank.'
