Fake online solicitations for donations are surfacing as the search for a missing Putnam County girl continues, more than two weeks since she vanished from her home.  A donation fund has been set up to assist Haleigh Cummings' father and brother, but Web sites claiming to be collecting money for the 5-year-old and her relatives are false, said Jessica Watts with Watts Funeral Home in San Mateo. Watts' husband helped set up the donation fund at Bank of America. The funeral home also is selling T-shirts and buttons with Haleigh's picture with proceeds assisting relatives.  Jessica Watts said they have heard about the sites and her husband saw that one had the money transferred to a PayPal account.  But she said people who want to contribute to the Haleigh donation fund can easily avoid contribution scams by keeping away from Web site claims. That's because no legitimate online donation sites have been set up. 'We have not set up and I know the family has not set up any online donations,' she said. People who want to donate to the fund should write a check to the Haleigh Cummings Family Relief Fund and submit it at a Bank of America branch.  When Haleigh is found, money left in the fund will go to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's organization. Money from the account currently is being used to help Haleigh's father, Ronald Cummings, pay bills such as rent and car payments. He has not been going to work since his daughter was reported missing from the family's Satsuma home on Feb. 10. 'It's really more for her brother, to keep some normalcy in his life,' Jessica Watts said. Haleigh's 4-year-old brother was asleep in the same room as his sister the night the girl disappeared. Also in the room was Ronald Cummings' girlfriend.  Officers have been following on hundreds of tips regarding the missing child, including reported sightings, but so far have found no trace of Haleigh.  The Watts Funeral Home, located off of U.S. 17, can be reached at 386-328-1414.
