ADVERTISING agency JWT and media agency MindShare are experimenting with reintegrating the advertising business.  They are creating a joint K1 team to handle the $50million Kellogg account.  The team, launched on January 1, is headed by K1 director Paul Spriggs, the former Kellogg director at JWT, whose salary is shared between the companies.   The arrangement has led to a drop in the number of staff working on the account to about 25 by reducing work duplicated between the two companies.   But the main goal has been to combine media or channel planning, research and creative idea generation at the beginning of the advertising process -- much as it was before media agencies split from their creative agency parents a decade ago.   MindShare Sydney managing director Tracie Michael said the two agencies and Kellogg went through a review to make the communications process more efficient. 'It's about having idea generation and channel planning leading the process.' JWT chief executive Noel Magnus said the new structure created a 'single, neutral point of contact' who had knowledge of all aspects of the Kellogg account.   Kellogg has joined advertisers including BankWest and Commonwealth Bank in putting media planning and creative thinking back together. Media and creative agencies have had a sometimes rocky relationship since the deregulation of the Australian advertising industry in 1997, after which almost all media planning and buying functions were in separate companies.   Media buyers, revelling in their new-found independence, have gradually found themselves elevated to the front of the queue in dealing with marketers due to the size of the budgets they control. The proliferation of media channels has encouraged them to be more creative and put them into more direct competition with their one-time parents.   Creative agencies are increasingly looking at ways to regain control over the media planning function, which can dictate the form of an advertising campaign.   And advertisers are looking for ways to reduce costs while ensuring their agency partners work well together.   BankWest recently appointed creative agency Host to its creative and media planning duties, while BMF performs a similar role on the CBA's youth business.   DDB has a department called Touch that houses brand and channel planning, while creative agency The Campaign Palace has been winning awards for its media thinking for the past two years.   Clemenger Melbourne has hired engagement planners -- its term for people trained in consumer research, media or channel planning and even direct media use. 'It's no longer enough to have an idea -- it's important to know how it engages people,' deputy managing director Elizabeth Fulcher said. 'It can't be a separate discussion any more.' At K1, JWT and MindShare may be working closely but they still disagree over how to describe the new structure. 'Arguably it is a reintegration of the communications discussion,' Mr Magnus said. 'I have always felt that as soon as media companies separated from agencies there has been a tension as to who owns the relationship (with the client),' he said. 'Doing it this way ... there's no turf war.' But Ms Michael said the word 'reintegration' suggested a return to the days when media buyers were considered backroom number crunchers. 'Really we're going forwards,' she said. 'We're concentrating even more on having media planning at the front of the process.' Kellogg marketing director Fraser Taylor refused to comment.
