PPG Industries, Pittsburgh, has shipped its 20-millionth square foot of Solarban 70XL glass, according to a Feb. 25 company release. Introduced in 2006 as the worlds first triple-silver-coated, solar control low-E glass, Solarban 70XL glass remains the industrys highest-performing environmental glass as measured by light-to-solar gain ratio.  Acceptance of Solarban 70XL glass is widespread in the United States and increasing around the world,' said Scott A. Follett, director of new products and services for PPG Performance Glazings, in the release. 'We expect that trend to accelerate as sustainable building principles become part of international building design standards.  Notable installations include Bank of America Plaza in Charlotte, N.C., City Center Plaza in Seattle and RBC Centre in Toronto. More than 170 new projects in the United States alone, totaling another 7 million square feet of Solarban 70XL glass, are currently slated for construction.  A proprietary, triple-silver coating developed by PPG, allows Solarban 70XL glass to transmit 64 percent of the suns light in a standard 1-inch insulating glass unit, while blocking 73 percent of its heat energy. That produces an LSG ratio of 2.37. according to the release.  According to independent energy-modeling studies, the glass can reduce annual cooling-related energy costs by more than $100,000, or up to 13 percent, when it is specified instead of dual-pane tinted glass in a standard, window-walled, eight-story office building. According to the same study, heating, ventilation and air-conditioning requirements in the same building are reduced by $400,000, up to 20 percent, and carbon emissions are cut by nearly 500 tons a year, enough to offset the yearly emissions of about 100 passenger cars, according to the release.  Gary Danowski, vice president, PPG Performance Glazings, said Solarban 70XL glass could play a critical role in the development of carbon-neutral buildings. This product has become extremely popular for projects seeking to achieve LEED certification, including more than a dozen in just the last year, he said.  Solarban 70XL glass was named a green product of the year by Architectural Record, and has been honored by the Pennsylvania Environmental Council, the Carnegie Science Center and the Green Building Alliance.  Since last fall, the triple-silver, low-e coating for Solarban 70XL glass has beenavailable on six of PPGs most popular tinted glasses.  
