  Staff Writer THE ISSUE: Daytona Beach has two outstanding variable rate loans, one for about $3 million at a rate of 5.85 percent and another for about $28 million at a rate of 6.26.  THE RECOMMENDATION: Finance Director Michael Robertson said 'increased financial burdens caused by current market conditions' were a good reason for the city to refinance. After shopping multiple banks, a 20-year fixed rate loan at 4.72 was found, which he said would save the city $3 million over the next five years.  THE DEBATE: Commissioner Rick Shiver pointed out that the lower fixed rate loan, from Branch Banking and Trust Co., has the highest rate of fees and expenses at about $17,000. However, Robertson said it by far saves more money than the refinancing options from Bank of America, SunTrust and others. Over the life of the loan it is expected to save up to $4 million for the city.  VOTE: 6-0, with Commissioner Cassandra Reynolds absent.  Other business Gateway extension: The commission approved on second reading an 18-month extension for the Gateway Daytona hotel and marina project planned to be built at the Halifax River and International Speedway Boulevard. The project needs more time to get permits from St. Johns River Water Management District for its153-slip public marina, plus 19 slips reserved for daily on-demand use. Wrecker bid OK'd: The commission approved a bid from Daytona Wrecker Services -- owned by Mayor Glenn Ritchey -- for police towing services for five years with one five-year renewal option. Daytona Wrecker, which has held the contract for more than 20 years, was the highest bid amongst three bidders, offering to pay a monthly fee of $15,278 to the city.  Bruce Sewell of Universal Towing in Holly Hill complained in November that towing services outside of Daytona Beach were not allowed to bid, though he is only one-eighth of a mile from the city limits. However, city officials said outside bidders, including Universal Towing, were allowed to participate, though the company offered a lower payment of $12,590. The third bidder was also from Daytona Beach.  On first reading, the ordinance was approved unanimously by a vote of 5-0 with Reynolds absent and Ritchey abstaining from the vote.
