WILMINGTON -- Richard P. McCann Jr. admitted to his role today in a credit-selling scam that was being operated out of a Bank of America subsidiary in Newark, and cost the financial giant more than $9 million.  McCann, 31, of Wilmington, pleaded guilty before Chief District Judge Gregory M. Sleet to one count of conspiracy to commit bank fraud.  He now faces up to 30 years in prison and a fine of up to $1 million when he is sentenced in June. In exchange for his plea, nine other charges were dropped.  McCann, was one of two 'inside' men in the fraud which was operated by the father-son team of Petros 'Peter' Ishkanian, 55, and Arthur 'Lucky' Ishkanian, 35.  According to court papers, Arthur Ishkanian (sometimes spelled as Ishkhanian) in July 2007 approached Frank B. Azan, 34, of Middletown, an employee at FIA Card Services in Newark, with a proposal. He offered to pay Azan to secretly increase the credit limits of certain people who had accounts with the business, and also to increase the amount of cash they were allowed to withdraw against their credit.  Azan, an analyst in FIA's small business lending department, later recruited McCann, another FIA employee, to join in the scheme. McCann was paid $500 to $2,000 per list of 'clients' provided by Azan from Ishkanian, to make the unauthorized changes, according to Assistant U.S. Attorney Keith Rosen.  In some cases, Rosen said, McCann also would activate accounts for people who had been denied credit with the company and allow some to withdraw up to 100 percent of their credit line, in cash, immediately.  The increases in credit were often in the range of $25,000 to $50,000 per customer.  In December 2007, Arthur Ishkanian handed off to his father, Petros, who began providing lists to Azan and McCann, according to prosecutors.  No charges of identity theft were filed in the case and a Bank of America spokesman said the fraud did not compromise the security of any customer accounts.  According to the spokesman and prosecutors, Bank of America discovered the fraud around January 2008 and turned the matter over to federal authorities.  Petros Ishkanian pleaded guilty to the same charge as McCann earlier this month and faces the same potential punishment at sentencing.  Arthur Ishkanian, meanwhile, was sentenced last month in federal court in Philadelphia to 30 years in prison for distribution of methamphetamine. He also is awaiting sentencing in that court, in a separate case, on escape charges.  Contact Sean OSullivan at 324-2777 or sosullivan@delawareonline.com.  
