Austin Business Journal  Related News  The Spring Condominium will celebrate its topping out Feb. 24.  The 42-story project at 300 Bowie St. began construction in 2007 and will be the first downtown Austin condo tower completed this year when its delivered in July. The project has pre-sold 55 percent of its 246 units, according to one of the development partners.  Spring Austin Partners and Hensel Phelps Construction Co. are working with Vancouver-based architect Foad Rafil. The condos interiors are designed by Austins Dick Clark Architecture, and local artists Jason Lawson, Leigh Wyatt and Ryah Christensen have been commissioned to design parts of Springs lobby.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Mass. foreclosures spiked 22% in Jan.  [Boston]  Fannie, Freddie to suspend foreclosure sales  [Tampa Bay]  Condo developer pushes ahead in Green Cove Springs  [Jacksonville]  Bank of America, Wells Fargo extend foreclosure moratoriums  [Portland]  Mortgage rates drop but stay above 5 percent  [Pittsburgh]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Austin  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 15,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Respiratory Therapist, Registered  Urology Openings in the Carolinas  Account Executives - Enterprise Sales  Assistant/Associate Professor of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery  Web Development Sales Managers  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte  
