By Matthew Bigg  ATLANTA (Reuters) - A crisis in the U.S. bank sector has hit small businesses hard, drying up credit and throwing many long-standing banking relationships into doubt.  Several small business owners said in interviews they were forced to make severe cuts and to refrain from seeking credit as they try to ride out the worst U.S. recession in decades. 'It's difficult because banks are not lending money, so it's impossible to get any kind of short-term loan,' said Hilary Halford, president of the Chamber of Commerce in Early County, in rural southwest Georgia. 'The whole way business is being conducted has changed.' The banking shake-up is at the core of the recession. Problems in the home mortgage lending industry sparked it.  Finding a solution to the issue of nonperforming bank assets is at the heart of attempts by U.S. President Barack Obama's government to revive the economy.  Opinion polls show how far banks as an institution have fallen in public opinion.  According to a January poll for NBC and the Wall Street Journal, 38 percent of respondents said they had some faith in financial institutions, down from 43 percent in September and 81 percent in 2000.  ON THE GROUND  Small business owners say the shake-up is changing their business culture in ways they could barely have imagined in better times.  Chuck Thomas said his bank had shut off a long-standing annual line of credit for his Birmingham, Alabama, business that includes construction and an aquatic nursery.  Instead, the bank allows him only monthly credit. To get it, he had to lay off most of his workers. After sales dropped, he revised his business plan and now makes little or no salary. 'It's better than the alternative,' he said. The alternative is bankruptcy.  Bank consolidation also tends to reduce the quality of service to small firms, said Joseph Gardner, partner at an architectural firm in Atlanta. Just two years after launch, Porter Airlines remains profitable and is gearing up for expansion at a time when larger industry rivals are strapped for cash. Full Article
