A kitchen fire in a Grant Avenue apartment complex was extinguished quickly Sunday afternoon, averting a potential disaster.  Vandergrift No. 1 Fire Chief Tom Schaeffer credited the lack of injuries to a prompt evacuation by borough police, a quick attack by firefighters and a healthy dose of luck. 'If the fire had been somewhere else, or hadn't been discovered immediately, or if it was a different time of day, or if it had burned five more minutes, it could have ended differently,' Schaeffer said. The fire began shortly before noon in the kitchen of Brandy Cirigliano, who was cooking in her third-floor apartment in the 100 block of Grant Avenue. Cirigliano's apartment is in the middle of three buildings forming the complex.  Schaeffer said Cirigliano and her 3-year-old son, Trystan, escaped safely along with residents from the other 11 apartments. 'The entire building was evacuated by police before we got there,' Schaeffer said. A fire crew searched to be sure everyone was out.  Schaeffer said luck was on firefighters' side because the fire was accessible through a gap on the Columbia Avenue side of the buildings above the parking lot for First Commonwealth Bank, which fills the buildings' first floors. 'It's a real odd configuration of buildings,' Schaeffer said. Schaeffer said Cirigliano's apartment, which she shared with her sister, Karen Kelley, was heavily damaged and is uninhabitable.  The apartment of Stephen Hockar immediately below Cirigliano's sustained water damage. Schaeffer said Hockar will be displaced temporarily until a professional can determine whether any electrical components were damaged.  He said the American Red Cross is assisting both renters.   The complex is owned by Edward Solomon Sr., who is in Florida. Schaeffer said he has been in contact with Solomon's children regarding the fire.  Since all the apartments have individual electric service, Schaeffer said, the remaining tenants were able to return home yesterday afternoon.  The bank sustained minimal water and smoke damage. Schaeffer believed it would be open Tuesday after today's closing because of the Presidents Day holiday.  Desarai Williams, 20, said she started to panic when she heard police knocking on doors and people in the hallway yelling about a fire.  Williams, who has lived in the building at least three years with her mother, said relatives were visiting at the time. Ten people were inside her apartment, most of them children. 'Everyone made it out safely,' Williams said. 'I was the last one out. Everyone seemed very calm, but I wasn't.' Aside from a faint scent of smoke, Williams said her apartment wasn't damaged  Schaeffer said he had feared a fire at that complex because the unusual configuration could impede evacuations and firefighters' access to the flames.  The buildings' age, layout and proximity to others in the tightly packed business district create what he called a 'high-risk area.' That's why he familiarizes himself and other firefighters with the layout of many Vandergrift buildings, including the site of yesterday's fire. 'A fast, down-and-dirty knockdown saved that place,' Schaeffer said. 'It could've been a lot worse.' Schaeffer's company was assisted by crews from Vandergrift No. 2, Parks, Oklahoma, Hyde Park, West Leechburg, Lower Burrell No. 3 and Lower Kiski EMS. More  News headlines          
