New Zealand Red Cross:  Generous donations from the New Zealand public in support of the victims of the Victorian bushfires have raised over $579,000 and combined with the New Zealand Government commitment of $500,000, the 2009 Victoria Bushfire Fund now totals over $1 million. New Zealand Red Cross will transfer 100 percent of all donations made into the 2009 Victoria Bushfire Fund and will not deduct any costs associated with administration, banking or transaction fees.    Calls to the New Zealand Red Cross 0900 33 200 $20 donation line were so great this morning that all available phone lines were overloaded and further lines have now been added.   In addition to funds already raised, numerous business and corporate organisations have thrown their support behind the appeal. Some examples include ANZ Bank who have opened an account and are accepting donations nationally for the appeal, the New Zealand Rugby Football Union are supporting collections at all Rebel Sport Super 14 games this weekend, Pumpkin Patch are asking customers to make donations with their purchases and Diners Club are inviting their customers to convert their club reward points into a cash donation for the appeal.   Kind hearted people have been contacting New Zealand Red Cross with many different offers of assistance for those affected by the fires. New Zealand Red Cross is only able to accept financial donations, and asks that people understand that offering cash rather than clothing (new or used), goods of any kind or offers of voluntary assistance are not immediately helpful in this disaster situation.  People in New Zealand wishing to support the 2009 Victorian Bushfire Fund can do so by donating to New Zealand Red Cross. Donations can be made by:" visiting our website www.redcross.org.nz to make a secure online donation" calling 0900 33 200 to make an automatic $20 donation" sending a cheque to Australian Bushfire Appeal, Red Cross House, PO Box 12140, Thorndon, Wellington, 6144." making a donation at any New Zealand Red Cross service centre   As part of the global Red Cross Restoring Family Links programme, people who can not establish contact with immediate relatives or who may be directly affected by the bushfires can email familylinks@redcross.org.nz or can contact their local New Zealand Red Cross office for assistance. 
