Oklahoma City continues its development as a premiere aquatic racing and training venue with a dual announcement today by Chesapeake Energy and USA Canoe/Kayak, the national governing body for the sport.  Chesapeake Energy will become a national sponsor of USA Canoe/Kayak providing support for the ongoing development of the sport in the U.S., and USA Canoe/Kayak announced they are naming Oklahoma City as a National Development and Education Center, the first of its kind in the nation.  Chesapeakes sponsorship is an extraordinary show of support from one of Americas finest companies for our sports, our athletes, and our programs, said David Yarborough, USA Canoe/Kayak Executive Director.  Chesapeake joins Bank of America and Nike, our other national sponsors, in providing essential support for our athletes. This agreement underscores the commitments of both Chesapeake Energy and USA Canoe/Kayak to develop a world class competition and training venue in Oklahoma City.  The USA Canoe/Kayak National Development and Education Site will focus on training top kayak and canoe athletes for international competition, including the 2012 Olympics. It will also become a national center for coaching education.  Weve been working toward developing a world-class training and racing venue and have hosted the top two events in the US for canoe/kayak, said Mike Knopp, Executive Director of the Oklahoma City Boathouse Foundation.  We want to enhance the sport, and the country is taking notice.  The Oklahoma River hosted canoe/kayaks top race events in 2008 with the USA Canoe/Kayak Olympic Trials for Flatwater Sprint held in April and the USA Canoe/Kayak National Championship in August.  Chesapeake Energy has long been a supporter of development along the river, beginning with completion of the Chesapeake Boathouse in 2006.  It is an honor for Chesapeake to work side by side with USA Canoe/Kayak to promote these sports, said Martha Burger, Chesapeake Senior Vice PresidentHuman and Corporate Resources. USACK and Chesapeake have a shared respect for the value of athletic competition and promotion of active lifestyles for people of all ages. We look forward to working with USACK to promote canoe/kayak and dragon boating not only in Oklahoma City, but across the nation.  About Chesapeake Energy  Chesapeake Energy Corporation is the largest producer of natural gas in the United States. Headquartered in Oklahoma City, the company's operations are focused on exploratory and developmental drilling and corporate and property acquisitions in the Mid-Continent, Fort Worth Barnett Shale, Fayetteville Shale, Haynesville Shale, Permian Basin, Delaware Basin, South Texas, Texas Gulf Coast, Ark-La-Tex and Appalachian Basin regions of the United States. The companys internet address is www.chk.com  About the Oklahoma City Boathouse Foundation  The Oklahoma City Boathouse Foundation promotes the use and development of the Oklahoma River as a center of community activity and as a world-class urban aquatic venue. The Foundation provides an array of community rowing, kayaking and dragon boating programs at the Chesapeake Boathouse and hosts regional, national and international race events on the Oklahoma River. Learn more at www.chesapeakeboathouse.org  
