 sued two former employees and four people involved in real estate development in Dorchester for allegedly defrauding it of $1.5 million in an 'elaborate scheme' that bank officials believe was an inside job, according to the lawsuit, filed last month in Suffolk Superior Court.  In a four-day period last September, real estate agent Joan Ruggiero, property developer Michael David Scott, and one other associate purchased 13 cashier's checks worth a total of $2.4 million at the Bank of America branch in Fields Corner, using checks drawn on accounts at other banks.  The transactions were handled by now former branch manager Arthur Samuels and assistant manager Clarista Bramble, both of whom knew the defendants as customers and, outside the bank, had bought properties from Scott.  The cashier's checks ranged in value from $82,700 to $239,000 and were made out to companies controlled by Scott or Ruggiero. But all 13 checks from the other banks bounced, according to the lawsuit.  Bank of America fired the two bank employees and last month sued the pair, as well as Scott, Ruggiero, Thursa Raetz, and a property trustee, Jasmine Harris, alleging fraud.  Bank of America officials declined to comment on the lawsuit.  But in court records, the bank said that Scott, who has bought numerous properties in Dorchester and converted them into condominiums, was the ringleader.'Scott is the central figure in the conspiracy,' Bank of America said in one court document. 'Samuels and Bramble were fired by the Bank as a result of their participation in the conspiracy.'As described by Bank of America, the alleged scheme resembles 'check-kiting' frauds, in which perpetrators use checks from other banks to open accounts at an institution, even though they do not have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. They then take money out of the account before the checks clear, either to steal the money or to get quick access with the hope of covering the deficit later. Such frauds often include multiple accounts.  Raetz could not be reached for comment. She lives in Virginia, but according to Suffolk County property records she has bought properties from Scott and was involved in other real estate transactions with him.  The other defendants all said they are innocent. Several said they were themselves victims, and blamed each other or Bank of America.  Scott, for example, said he repaid Bank of America for two checks he bounced at the Fields Corner branch. In court documents, he said the checks he used to buy the cashier's checks bounced because Chase Bank had frozen the account he used for the two checks.  In an interview Scott - who also has accounts at Bank of America, CitiBank, and Sovereign Bank - said Bank of America subsequently froze $513,000 of his money. 'Bank of America really abused and victimized me,' he said. 'No one knows what happened with their money.'Scott's attorney, Gabriela Mendoza, said Scott has been trying for months to get more information about the frozen accounts from Bank of America. 'There is no conspiracy; there is no fraud,' Mendoza said.Mendoza also represents Harris, who is a trustee of a Dorchester realty trust. Harris was wrongly included in the suit, Mendoza said.  In depositions or through their attorneys, several of the principals did not dispute Bank of America's account of the purchase of the cashier's checks. According to the suit, on Sept. 15, a check signed by Raetz was used to buy a cashier's check for $225,000 - to be paid to Victorian Real Estate, a Dorchester company owned by Ruggiero. The check used to buy the funds was for an account at CitiBank in Raetz's name.  During the next four days, five more checks signed by Raetz were used to buy cashier's checks that were paid to companies owned by Scott, Ruggiero, and a law firm, the lawsuit said. All five checks bounced.  According to the lawsuit, Raetz told bank officials the accounts used to buy the cashier's checks were funded with the proceeds of legitimate real estate transactions involving Scott and Ruggiero. However, when asked, she did not produce documents substantiating the real estate deals, Bank of America said.  The lawsuit claims that Ruggiero bought five cashier's checks worth $707,158 that were made out to companies she controls. But Ruggiero said through her attorney she did not receive any of the funds and doesn't know what happened to the money. She also alleged Bank of America transferred $503,000 from her Bank of America account to Scott's without her permission, and caused her checks to bounce, according to a court filing she made.  Ruggiero's attorney said she repeatedly complained to bank officials about the transfers.'My client doesn't even know where any of these bank checks went,' her lawyer, Stuart Schrier, said. 'The checks they are talking about, some don't even have endorsements, they didn't provide information about where they were deposited.'Bank of America claims Ruggiero complained about the wire transfers only after she was notified about the 'bad checks.' The suit says Ruggiero knew about the transfers and routinely appeared at the branch, including on the day of the transactions, and did not notify the bank about any wrongdoing at the time.  Meanwhile, Samuels, the former bank manager, said in a court document that he did not verify if Scott and Ruggiero had the funds to cover some of the cashier's checks because they 'were well known customers' and that he had authority to make exceptions to the bank's verification policy.  He said some of Raetz's checks were verified and on other occasions Raetz would use a bank card to identify herself and verify her funds when buying the cashier's funds.  The attorney for Bramble, the assistant bank manager, said she was only following Samuel's directions and had no knowledge of any wrongdoing.'There may be something that is not right at the Bank of America, but it wasn't at her level,' said Bramble's attorney, Jeffrey Denner.  Samuels and Bramble each bought Dorchester condominiums from Scott, according to court documents and public records.  Denner said there's nothing wrong with bank employees doing business with their customers. can be reached at jmckim@globe.com.  
