Donations continue to pour from the financial services industry for those affected by the bushfires in Victoria.  In a massive outpouring of support for the victims and their families, many firms have donated cash (at least $7.2 million in total on last count), waived their fees and suspended payments to give the victims much needed financial relief.  Aside from the combined $4 million pledged by the major banks -Commonwealth, St.George/Westpac, NAB and ANZ - regional bank Bendigo has to date raised more than $1.76 million from its account holders and the general public.  The banks have also set up makeshift offices in the region and put in place special arrangements so that those affected by the bushfire can re-negotiate their existing loans, access their term deposits without incurring a penalty charge and defer credit card and loan repayments for a certain period.  Fund managers AMP and AXA have also donated at least $1 million and $100,000 respectively, as reported in an earlier Financial Standard article.  Meanwhile, Suncorp-owned Asteron Group has pledged $500,000 on top of additional fundraising activities already underway while Allianz donated at least $100,000 on top of the $50,000 donated by employees.  Industry Super Funds will also donate $100,000 to the Victorian Government/Red Cross Fire Appeal.  'Industry super funds have widespread coverage throughout Victoria and members are certain to be amongst those affected by the fires,' said David Elia, chief executive of HOSTPLUS, who announced the donation on behalf of the funds participating in the ISN.  'This donation is a contribution on behalf of our participating funds and their members to everyone impacted by the fires,' said Elia.  Credit Unions across the country have set up a bushfire relief fund and are relaxing their policies around the early access of term deposits. ATM provider Cuscal is collecting staff donations which will be added to funds already collected by the Credit Union Foundation Australia and industry's peak body Abacus.  To date, more than 750 properties have been destroyed, 360,000 hectares burnt and 181 people dead, although the death toll could reach 300.  The affected areas include Kinglake and Marysville and areas in Gippsland and near Bendigo.  
