Redistributed  THERE'S A basic economic fact that a lot of people are overlooking.   It's that the staggering losses posted by the big banks are financial and therefore exactly offset by gains to the banks' counter parties. Wealth hasn't been destroyed it's only been redistributed.  If the Bank of America lost $10 billion on credit default swaps, someone else (not necessarily just one party) gained it.   Who benefits from a failed home loan? The guy who sold the house and pocketed the proceeds of the (now defaulted) loan, and secondarily the guy who borrowed the money and, for a while, got to live in a nice house that was way out of his league.   In California, that first group of winners are retirees who sold in Sunnyvale and moved to a big spread in the Sierra foothills.  Most of the time, it's taken for granted that in financial transactions there are winners as well as losers.   The main thing that's different this time is that the losses are concentrated in a few highly visible and politically influential banks. Hence the bogus 'crisis.' The wealth trillions of it is still out there, and it hasn't stopped looking for profitable opportunities.   The best thing our government can do is step out of the way of those profitable opportunities, and stop shoveling money toward the losers.  Theodore D. Sternberg  Fremont Ballpark woes I'D LIKE to thank Vinnie Bacon for his insightful and fact-based rebuttal (Feb. 3 My Word) to Dominic Dutra's over-optimistic praise of an A's ballpark in Fremont. (Jan. 29 My Word)   I'm 100 percent in agreement with him.  Just because a ballpark sounds cool does not mean it's good for us.   My greatest fear is that Dutra will get his wish, and that along with it, he will bring upon us all a tsunami of problems that will overwhelm us when we can least afford it.  I beg our city leaders to exercise great caution regarding this issue in these terrible economic times. Please do not saddle us with more than we can handle.  The consequences of a hasty, poorly researched decision in favor of a ballpark could be ruinous. And we, the residents of Fremont, would have to bear the brunt of these consequences.  Dutra has not convinced me this will not happen.   Until he does, I will not be in favor of an A's ballpark in Fremont.  Cynthia A. Earl  Fremont  Cart before the horse  TWO RECENT My Word articles in The Argus have called for a change in American Middle-East policies to bring about a more evenhanded approach between Palestinians and Israelis to, in effect, treat on a more equal footing, terrorists and their victims.  We might, by the same reasoning, just as well consider a more evenhanded approach between those that commit violent crimes in this country and those they assault.   Of course this makes no sense. We don't treat every circumstance that has two sides evenhandedly. We rightly condemn the one, and sympathize with the other.  So I suggest that before calls are made for our government officials to change current policies in favor of showering Palestinian terrorists with undeserved evenhandedness, calls first should be made, publicly and privately, to the terrorists themselves to cease all hostilities and physical violence.  Once the terrorism ceases, and there is acceptance by all ruling parties of a two-state solution, then and only then will there be a true opportunity for our government to demonstrate its evenhandedness.   Becky A. Fischer  Fremont
