A Greensburg couple is suing First Commonwealth Bank, claiming the bank broke a promise to pay 8 percent on the couple's retirement account.  But the bank has filed an objection, asking to have the lawsuit dismissed because it believes the claims are without merit.  The class-action lawsuit filed by Patrick and Barbara McGrogan, of Greensburg, alleges that the bank engaged in deceptive trade practices, breached fiduciary duties and breached agreements in which it promised to pay members the guaranteed minimum 8 percent on their accounts. The McGrogans said they opened two IRA Market Rate Savings accounts in 1983 and 1984 with the bank, which guaranteed a minimum 8 percent return.  The McGrogans' lawsuit states that at some point in 2008, First Commonwealth reneged on its obligations when it sent a letter to customers, saying it was withdrawing as account custodians, closing the accounts and sending the money to the depositors, less a 10 percent withholding fee for the IRS and other taxes. The bank then offered an IRA account with a 3.5 percent annual percentage yield and to act as custodian.  Under the provisions of the account, as stated in the lawsuit and in the bank's objection, the custodian may resign upon 60 days' notice to the depositor and then transfer the assets of the account as the depositor requests. If the depositor does not appoint a new custodian within 60 days after the notice of resignation, the custodian may appoint one to hold the account's assets.  But letters to the McGrogans and other account holders did not advise them of their rights, according to their attorney, who says it violated the Unfair Trade and Business Practices Act.  The lawsuit further contends that even if the bank, as custodian, had the right to resign, it still had a fiduciary obligation to protect the McGrogans' rights to the underlying investment and to act in their best interest.  ''The bank asked the customers to stick with them during the good times and maybe give up a little bit in bad times. Now times aren't so good. They are not sticking with their customers,'' said Frank G. Salpietro, the Pittsburgh-based attorney representing the McGrogans. ''The bank violated the trust of the customer and reneged on the terms of the contract they themselves created to benefit the bank and to the detriment of customers and in breach of fiduciary responsibility.''  The way the accounts are supposed to work, he said, is that the IRAs were tax-deferred until the McGrogans reached at least 59 when they could withdraw from it.  Patrick McGrogan, 55, said that if the money were allowed to remain in the accounts until maturity, they would be worth between $2 million and $3 million.  ''So what they have taken away is what I consider my nest egg for retirement,'' he said. ''It would have put me and my wife in a reasonable position for life. (The bank) did it without a legal recourse. ... I just think they figured out they can roll over a bunch of people who are their customers for a long period of time with no recourse or no remorse.''  As a result of the breach, the lawsuit states that those affected suffered lost interest by the bank's refusal to pay the 8 percent; additional taxes, expenses and penalties caused by the bank's closure of the accounts; and lost interest from the failure to accept properly tendered rollover contributions.  ''They promised to guarantee a minimum of 8 percent. The bank should do that and honor its promise, particularly when they led customers, when they opened the accounts, to believe they'd be able to have that steady rate of growth and steady rate of interest when they retire,'' Salpietro said. ''At the minimum, honor the contract. But because of the actions we think they've taken to the McGrogans and others, there are damages. ... It is our position the bank needs to make up that difference.''  The lawsuit claims that up to 50 other First Commonwealth customers have the same accounts, but McGrogan and his attorney believe there could be up to 300.  ''We cannot comment on the numbers except that we believe the number stated in the complaint to be accurate,'' said Susie Barbour, media relations supervisor for the bank. Barbour said the bank cannot comment on the case but that it believes the allegations are without merit.  In an objection filed last week, the bank asked the court to dismiss the McGrogans' suit.  ''The McGrogans' claims are all based on the same shaky foundation: the outlandish notion that the bank promised to pay them 8 percent on their IRAs forever, and never to resign as custodian,'' the bank's lawyers wrote. ''These claims, whether asserted under breach of contract theories, breach of fiduciary duty theories, or as a violation of the Unfair Trade and Business Practices Act, contradict the clear and express language of the IRA court documents.''  The bank contends it had a right to resign as custodians and there was no obligation to pay an 8 percent interest rate forever, and that the McGrogans failed to present facts that they were entitled to such. The objection states that the written notices informed the McGrogans of its resignation, but that they failed to appoint a successor custodian within 60 days of the resignation notice. Therefore, the funds were returned to them, minus a 10 percent withholding fee.  In regard to the breach of fiduciary duty, the bank argues that the relationship between an account holder at a bank and the customer is ''an arm's-length relationship, most often described by the courts as a 'debtor-creditor' relationship,'' and therefore it owes no fiduciary duty to the McGrogans.  ''The McGrogans fail to allege any facts that would transform this very ordinary and commonplace relationship into a fiduciary relationship,'' lawyers wrote.  And since the bank was not a fiduciary with a respect to IRA accounts, its lawyers argue that there can be no claim for punitive damages.  ''The nature of the relationship between a bank customer and a bank depends on the products and services that are offered and the terms of any contractual obligations, and those are all legal issues that will be determined by the court,'' the bank's legal team said in a statement through Barbour.  
