SAN LEANDRO A man suspected of robbing a Bank of the West in San Leandro Feb. 9 was arrested Wednesday afternoon in Oakland, police said.  Oakland resident Adante Anderson, 18, was hanging out in front of an apartment complex at 9630 Plymouth St. when Oakland Police Officer Marcus Midyett recognized him and arrested him without incident, San Leandro Police Detective Tai Nguyen said.  Anderson is suspected of walking into the Bank of the West at 1601 Washington Ave. on Feb. 9 with a note demanding money. Police suspect he fled after the teller gave him an undisclosed amount of cash, but not before a bank surveillance camera captured an image of him as 'clear as a DMV photo,' Nguyen said. Nguyen distributed the photo to Oakland beat officers, who said they recognized Anderson as someone who hung out in the 96th Avenue and Plymouth Street neighborhood.  Since the start of the year, seven young men who were known to hang out in that neighborhood had been arrested on suspicion of robbing banks in San Leandro, Hayward, Alameda, Castro Valley, Fairfield and possibly Concord.  While in custody, one of the suspects told investigators: 'Times are hard. Not enough people are buying dope. So we started robbing banks.' The young man was suspected of robbing a Citibank in December and a Fremont Bank in January both in San Leandro as well as a Washington Mutual in Hayward in January.  Six banks have been robbed in San Leandro so far this year, equaling the total number of bank robberies in the city in all of 2008. Arrests have been made in five of those robberies, while the Jan. 10 robbery of a Bank of America downtown remains unsolved. 'I've never seen so many in my life, to be honest with you,' Nguyen said of the crimes.  Also this week, two parolees who hang out in 96th and Plymouth neighborhood were arrested in Oakland in connection with the robbery of a Washington Mutual at 1601 E. 14th St. in San Leandro on Tuesday morning.Hayward resident Ramon Kevin McGee, 25, was arrested on suspicion of bank robbery. His companion, Oakland resident Antoine Proctor, 24, was arrested on suspicion of possession of stolen property.   San Leandro police said they believed three of the San Leandro bank robberies that had occurred this year were committed by young men, all in their late teens and early 20s, who hung out in the 96th and Plymouth neighborhood. The Bank of America robbery appears unconnected to the group, Nguyen said. 'These young guys don't understand the ramifications of robbing a bank,' Nguyen said. 'They are looking at state or federal prison.' 'The patrol officers and detectives are doing a great job,' San Leandro Police Lt. Pete Ballew noted. 'If you come to San Leandro and commit a crime, we're going to work on it until we bring you to justice. Detective Nguyen's mind-set is: It's personal. That's the mind-set of a lot of people around here.' Reach Jason Sweeney at 510-293-2469 or at jsweeney@bayareanewsgroup.com.
