A firefighting helicopter comes in for refuelling at the Upper Yarra staging ground in Wesburn. Picture: STEVE TANNER  UPDATE 3.30PM THURSDAY: Residents who lost their home in the bushfires will not have to pay rates this year, the Shire of Yarra Ranges has announced.  Gallery: Aerial photos of Kinglake  Gallery: Images from the scene  Full coverage: Kinglake and area bushfires  Full coverage: Yarra Valley fires  Herald Sun coverage: Victoria bushfires  The council will also refund any instalments that had already been paid.  The shires position contrasts with Whittlesea Council, which would only go so far as to invite residents to discuss rate payments. Whittlesea did, however, defer the deadlnie until June.  UPDATE 1.45PM THURSDAY: The following advice to residents heading back to their fire-ravaged homes:  The Shire of Yarra Ranges has urged residents with fire affected properties to take caution when checking their homes.  It is currently estimated as many as 200 buildings may have been destroyed by bushfires in the Yarra Ranges. The shire is concerned about hazardous conditions and materials that may be present at fire damaged properties, and the potential danger to residents returning to their properties to look for personal belongings.  Shire building inspectors will be posting hazard notices on public and private properties to help protect residents and refer them to the council for assistance.  Another potential hazard from fire damaged properties is asbestos, which was used in the construction of buildings and sheds for many years. Asbestos kits, which include disposable overalls, P2 masks, gloves, strong garbage bags and sealing tape, are available for residents whose homes may have contained asbestos.  The kits, which include detailed written information and instructions, can be collected from the Healesville and Yarra Glen Relief Centres and the shires Community Link in Lilydale prior to residents returning to their properties.  Residents can contact the shires Public Health Department on 9294 6415 OR 9294 6367 for more information.  UPDATE 9.20 THURSDAY: Aerial and street surveys of the area show at least 60 houses have been destroyed, with sheds, wineries and other infrastructure being heavily damaged.  UPDATE 7.27PM POLICE victim identification teams are still busy searching burn-out properties in Steels Creek as the community continues to fear for the safety of missing residents.  Unconfirmed reports and rumours circulating through the community suggest up to 22 people may have perished in the inferno that swept through the small community last Saturday.  Among the seven Steels Creek residents confirmed dead are Greg and Gail Leonard, Leigh and Charm Ahearn, and Melbourne University associate professor John and his wife, environmental campaigner Jenny Barnett, who lived in Old Kinglake Rd.  UPDATE WEDNESDAY 2pm: THE CFA has issued a further alert message for Yarra Valley.  High fire activity still threatens communities including Healesville, Chum Creek, Badger Creek, Steels Creek, Dixons Creek, Yarra Glen, Toolangi and Castella.  While fires near the Upper Yarra Dam, East of Big Pats Creek and the Bunyip State Park will affect communities in the vicinity of Warburton, Reefton, Wesburn, Millgrove, Yarra Junction, Gladysdale, Powelltown, Launching Place, Don Valley, Hoddles Creek, Woori Yallock and Yellingbo with increased smoke.  The CFA advised residents to be aware of emergency vehicles and requested them to keep a safe distance from emergency operations  1.30pm LILYDALE police have confirmed 36 houses from Healesville have been destroyed by fire as Yarra Valley communities start counting the costs.  More that 200 residents packed Healesville Memorial Hall yesterday (Tuesday) for a community meeting to hear from emergency services and the Shire of Yarra Ranges.  11am Wednesday update:  Authorities are urging residents in Healesville, Chum Creek, Badger Creek, Steels Creek, Dixons Creek, Yarra Glen, Toolangi and Castella to remain on alert for fire activity.  A new alert message was issued at 9.30am today, as fires continue to burn in the Maroondah/Yarra Complex in particular, south east and north of Toolangi and east and north of Healesville.  DSE spokesman Richard OByrne said the coming days would be a balancing act between short and long term danger.  He said current southerly winds had firefigthers working to set up containment lines on the active northern edge of fires in the Yarra Valley and Kinglake Complex.  But with a dangerous fire day the possibility of a 180 degree wind shift forecast for next Wednesday, Mr OByrne said setting up control lines to the south to protect towns would also be a major priority.  ''The winds are blowing to the north at the moment so we have staff working at the active edge of the fire, Mr OByrne said.  ''We have long range forecasting that indicates next Wednesday could be a very high fire danger day and theres a real risk for towns to the south.  ''Forecasts arent completely reliable but its critical to achieve as much as possible in the coming days.  Authorities have committed130 fire trucks 300 personnel, 6 aircraft and dozers to the fire.  Residents should listen to 774 AM ABC Melbourne radio for further updates.  You can also call the Victorian Bushfire Information Line on 1800 240 667.  Callers who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech / communication impairment may call textphone/ telewriter (TTY) on 1800 122 969.  COMMUNITY MEETING: A community meeting will be held in Powelltown on Wednesday, February 11 starting at 7.30pm at Powelltown Hall, Blake Street, Powelltown.  Tuesday, 3pm: LILYDALE police have confirmed 13 people from the Shire of Yarra Ranges have died in the fires, but numbers are expected to grow.  Over 200 worried residents packed Memorial Hall in Healesville to hear the latest fire news from emergency services crew.  Members from the police, Centrelink, the Salvation Army, Shire of Yarra Ranges, DSE and the CFA all spoke at the meeting to give information to residents.  Lilydale Sen-Sgt Shaun Young confirmed that 13 people from the Shire of Yarra Ranges died in the fires, but he expected the number to grow.  He said 36 houses from Healesville had been destroyed by fire and the community needed to band together to support them.  Residents also found out the threat of fire was downgraded for Healesville residents from the Maroondah-Yarra fire complex.  UPDATE TUESDAY 2.50PM  EMERGENCY services are still urging Yarra Valley residents to have their fire plans in place.  Speaking from the Shire of Yarra Ranges Municipal Emergency Coordination Centre in Lilydale, Sen-Sgt Shaun Young said that police or the CFA would not tell people whether to evacuate their properties.  ''Whether someone stays or leaves is an individual decision, Sen-Sgt Young said.  ''People need to listen to the radio and take heed of the alerts and make their decisions, he said.  10.41am TUESDAY: The CFA has downgraded the threat to Healesville residents from the Maroondah-Yarra fire complex.  Residents in the vicinity of Dowd Road, Romeo Road, Anderson Road, Gibbs Road, Juliet Avenue and Donald Street in Healesville are no longer under direct threat from fire, but still need to remain alert due to a high level of fire activity still in the area.  Tourists are still advised to stay away from Healesville, Chum Creek, Badger Creek, Steels Creek, Dixons Creek, Yarra Glen, Toolangi and Castello.  10.23am TUESDAY: The Maroondah-Yarra fire complex is still posing a threat to the Healesville community but police say the township is safe for now.  Healesville police leading Sen-Constable Sharlane Wilson said the area came under ember attack last night in the Badger Creek area.  Sen-Constable Wilson said police were existing on ''coffee and adrenaline and were frustrated by their inability to help people in all the ways that were needed.  ''We just dont have all the information that people need and want at the moment and that is very hard, Sen-Constable Wilson said.  Sen-Constable Wilson also said the Black Spur Rd was still shut to traffic.  8.40am TUESDAY: The Maroondah-Yarra fire complex is still posing a threat to the Healesville community, CFA is warning residents this morning.  Heavy ember attacks are threatening residents in the vicinity of Dowd Road, Romeo Road, Anderson Road, Gibbs Road, Juliet Avenue and Donald Street on the eastern fringes of Healesville.  The fire burning south-east Toolangi is still heading in a northerly direction and CFA is warning residents that they may be directly impacted by the fire.  Residents in Toolangi need to remain vigilant and be aware of the localised change in conditions.  Fire continues to actively burn in the Yarra Valley, and Yarra Glen, Dixons Creek, Chum Creek and other Yarra Valley communities need to remain on alert for changing conditions.  10.05pm Monday: FIRES burning in the Yarra Valley around Healesville, Yarra Glen and Chum Creek are posing new threats to home owners tonight.  A new CFA urgent threat warning was issued at 9.15pm for residents in the vicinity of Dowd Road, Romeo Road, Anderson Road, Gibbs Road and Juliet Avenue in Healesville, who may be directly impacted upon by heavy ember attack.  At 9:45pm tonight, the CFA re-issued an urgent threat warning to residents in Toolangi - the fire is burning in a northerly town towards the town from the south east and residents need to be on alert in case of localised changes in conditions.  7.15pm Monday FIRES burning in the Toolangi and Chum Creek areas were still causing concern for Yarra Valley residents this evening.  The CFA has issued a fresh urgent threat warning for Toolangi.  The alert, issued at 7pm, advises residents in Toolangi that they may be directly impacted by a fire burning in being pushed towards the community from the south-east.  EARLIER MONDAY: Shifting winds are also prompting some Healesville residents to begin preparing for evacuation, as s...
