Organisers of leading sporting events will have to work much harder to secure essential sponsorship in the current economic climate, according to one of the regions leading sports lawyers.  With even household names like Manchester United currently looking for a new sponsorship deal, James Earl from Clarke Willmotts Birmingham office believes the entire sport sector needs to up its game if it is to remain solvent through the recession.  Its definitely a buyers market at the moment, said Mr Earl whose firm represents a number of leading football, rugby and cricket teams. The downturn is trimming the fat from corporate budgets and every spend is being much more closely scrutinised than it was even six months ago, in order to gain maximum value.  Sports sponsorship will become much more targeted and highly leveraged, and less one-dimensional, in terms of the traditional routes which have been used such as corporate hospitality and advertising hoardings. In the current climate it is not enough for companies simply to find a six to eight figure sum - they will want to do far more groundwork to gain a clear understanding of the demographic they are trying to reach in order to increase brand awareness. This is also a real challenge for rights holders, who will have to be increasingly 'savvy to deliver return on investment for sponsors.  This week Sky signed a new improved deal with the Premier League for the TV rights over the coming years but elsewhere corporate sponsors have been re-evaluating their exposure to the sector.  Insurance giant AIG recently announced it will not be renewing its shirt sponsorship deal with Manchester United and similarly Swiss bank Credit Suisse has pulled out of its deal with the BMW Sauber F1 team, while the countrys third largest tour operators XL holidays went into administration leaving West Ham United to look for a new shirt sponsor.  Other football clubs are also feeling the crunch with Everton, Portsmouth and West Ham all for sale, and even Chelsea owner, Roman Abramovich - the richest man in English football - being forced to cut costs after losing at least three billion pounds in the recession. Football is not the only sport to be hindered by the downturn with last years Ladies European Golf tour cancelled due to the global financial crisis, and bookmakers Paddy Power predicting that London could pull out of hosting the 2012 Olympics  Mr Earl believes however that all is not lost and that sporting institutions may well follow the lead of some Premier League clubs and look East for funding.  He said: In general terms wealth is moving east, and this is also where the markets are growing fastest.  
