A rescue bid to save four Australian Medical Centres on the Sunshine Coast is in danger of collapsing because the practices were used as security for a 'mates' loan, it has been alleged.  Thousands of patients are now faced with having to find alternative medical care while dozens of staff may soon join lengthening job queues.  AMC medical centres in the line of fire are at Kawana Waters, Mountain Creek, Alexandra Headland and the Glasshouse Mountains.  Kawana Waters Medical Centre director Tim Gold alleged AMC founding director Gary Biffin used the four practices as collateral for a $4 million loan that his mate and AMC co-founding director Matthew Robertson used to buy two interstate medical practices through his company Ausmed.  The two practices subsequently failed and the National Australia Bank is now threatening to foreclose on the loan.  Mr Gold said at the time of the loan, of which $1.9 million was drawn on, Mr Robertson had nothing to do with AMC.  He said AMC shareholders were blind to the deal and found out about it only when Brisbane-based Medeco launched a rescue package for most of AMC's 10 Sunshine Coast practices. 'There is really no reason for NAB to do this because the collective value of the five businesses (including the AMC at Bribie Island) is in excess of $10 million,' he said. 'Medeco has offered NAB rescue packages to reduce the $1.9 million debt and remove the charges so Medeco can take over and run the businesses. 'If NAB exercise the mortgage the doctors will walk out and there will be no centres for them to run, and by the time a court gets around to working out who's right and who's wrong, we'll have no business to resurrect. 'Everyone will have lost everything.' Mr Gold said the eight shareholders in the Kawana Waters business, including himself, stood to lose everything.  He said the seven other shareholders in the centre were retirees and most had invested in the business through their superannuation fund.  Mr Gold said shareholders were in the process of compiling evidence in an attempt to get police to launch a fraud investigation into Mr Biffin that would hopefully compel NAB to remove the mortgages.  A NAB spokeswoman said the bank was currently undertaking a 'thorough review' of Ausmed's financial situation but no course of action had been decided.
