The Business Journal of Milwaukee - by Rich Kirchen  John-Paul Greco  Dean Wilson . . . We dont see a need to run away from it yet. Were in it for the long haul.  Related News  For nearly three years, Focus Credit Union wrote millions of dollars in loans for Harley-Davidson Inc. employees who took advantage of a 20 percent employee discount on new motorcycles.  In recent months, however, a combination of the recession and the impending Wauwatosa Harley plant closing are hurting the credit union, which counts Harley employees and retirees as half its 7,900 members.  The volume of new loans is declining and more members are unable to remain current on their payments, said credit union president and chief executive officer Dean Wilson.  Harley employees are concentrating these days on meeting essential expenses, and buying a new bike or keeping a recently purchased motorcycle is not a priority, Wilson said.  This article is for Paid Print Subscribers ONLY.  If you are already a The Business Journal subscriber please create or sign into your bizjournals.com account to link your valid print subscription and have access to the complete article.  Become a Print Subscriber  For immediate access to this article, as well as the most recent edition of The Business Journal online, become a print subscriber.  Already have an Account  Email Address: Password:  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  SEC, Madoff reach partial settlement  [Austin]  Fannie, Freddie suspend foreclosure sales  [Buffalo]  Schwarzenegger says no to new budget negotiations  [Sacramento]  Bank of America makes $402M payment to feds  [San Francisco]  Treasury ups Fannie/Freddie bailout funds to $400 billion  [San Antonio]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Milwaukee  Milwaukee Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 34,003 SF  Use Type: Lease  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Urologist  Internal Medicine  Pre-Sales Engineer, Software  Endocrinology  Hematologist/Oncologist  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Milwaukee Business Directory  Wisconsin Articles Milwaukee Articles Advertising Milwaukee Business Services Milwaukee Career Milwaukee Cars Milwaukee Education Milwaukee Financial Services Milwaukee Health Milwaukee Home Services Milwaukee Insurance Milwaukee Internet Milwaukee Legal Milwaukee Real Estate Milwaukee Software Milwaukee Telecommunications Milwaukee Travel Milwaukee  
