t killed plans for a 22-story hotel and condominium tower at North and Guetter streets last year, but in future, the city's zoning code could nix such tall buildings.  Bethlehem's comprehensive plan, which will have its final public hearing Wednesday, recommends limiting building heights in the Center City and South Side business districts to 12 to 15 stories. The height limitation is one of hundreds of recommendations in the 150-page plan, which examines land use, economic development, transportation and the environment.  The comprehensive plan isn't binding but other plans developed from it -- including the city's zoning ordinance -- are, said Darlene Heller, Bethlehem's planning and zoning director. The building height limitations would be included in the zoning ordinance when it's updated, which the city is also working on, Heller said.  The comprehensive plan hasn't been updated since 1991 and the zoning ordinance since 1970, though many amendments were made over the years in the zoning rules, Heller said.  The city's two business districts are without height restrictions. Their tallest building is the 11-story Bank of America building at Broad and New streets.  'It really hasn't been an issue because the market wouldn't support a building that's that high,' Heller said. 'But when North Street Tower was submitted, there was some concern that that would be too high.'  North Street Tower developer Posh Properties scaled back plans on the proposed 22-story building last February. Instead, the Bethlehem Township, Pa., developer is building a six-story Hyatt Place hotel on the corner.  Bill Scheirer, a West Bethlehem resident who worked on the comprehensive plan, said he's long been pushing for height restrictions in the city's business districts.  'I would like to see Bethlehem remain built to human scale,' he said.  City Councilman Gordon Mowrer, another plan participant, said restricting building heights could help maintain what's special about Bethlehem.  'If we make the buildings too tall, they're going to stand out and not be consistent,' he said. 'I think I'll go along with it but I haven't made up my mind.'  After Wednesday's public hearing, city council likely will consider approving the plan at its next meeting, Heller said.  The plan also recommends four-story height restrictions for shopping centers but no height limitations on the BethWorks site. Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem may look to build additional hotels on the site, which height limitations would restrict, Heller said.  Mowrer said he also likely would support that recommendation.  'That probably would be OK,' he said. 'It's an unusual area -- it's not going to interfere, I don't think, with the housing area so much. It's pretty isolated.'  Reporter Lynn Olanoff can be reached at 610-867-5000 or by e-mail at lolanoff@express-times.com. 1/3/=(( 1/3/=((  
