MORE NATIONAL The Wilmington Journal  Originally posted 2/12/2009 BY PAMELA   HOLLEY-BRIGHT  OF THE CAROLINA   PEACEMAKER   GREENSBORO, N.C. (NNPA) - Sit-In Movement, Inc. hosted the 49th Anniversary Gala to benefit The International Civil Rights Center and Museum (ICRCM). Special guests for the evening were actor and civil rights activist Henry Belafonte and gospel great, Pastor Shirley Caesar.  It was here that Earl Jones, co-founder of Sit-In Movement, Inc. proudly announced that $24 million had been raised for the completion of The International Civil Rights Center and Museum. Plans are being made for the doors of the ICRCM to open on Feb. 1, 2010 - just in time for the 50th anniversary of the Greensboro sit-ins.  The event was held on Jan. 31 in the Guilford Ballroom of the Sheraton Four Seasons at the Koury Convention Center.   Jones also shared the struggles that were endured in efforts to collect funding for the project. He said that many thought the state of North Carolina wouldn't provide funding for the ICRCM, as it was a local project. "We had to proceed with funding from the city of Greensboro and Guilford County," Jones shared. He also said that completing the ICRCM was important because it was "to honor and remember those who died and protested and fought for America to be where she should be." The three remaining members of the A&amp;T Four: Jibreel Khazan, Franklin McCain and Joseph McNeil were in attendance, along with the family of the late David Richmond. "Anything worth while is likely to be difficultit (the museum project) has had its moments. But through persistence and leadership, it has prevailed and now we're at the home stretch . . . When I think back on all of the pain and suffering that it took for our community to be inclusiveall that pain and suffering needs to be memorialized and a museum does that very well," said McNeil. McNeil also gave three reasons the museum is important: the memorial nature of museum, the importance of remembering the role that Greensboro had in the fight for human rights and the good that the museum will do for the community so that the past is never forgotten.  Harry Belafonte, was presented with the 2009 Alston/Jones International Civil and Human Rights Award. He helped to finance the Freedom Rides and SNCC (Student Non-violent Coordinating Committee), bailed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. out of the Birmingham City Jail along with other civil rights protestors who were also in jail.   Today, Belafonte still speaks out against racial injustices in the fight for equality. In reference to the A&amp;T Four Belafonte said, "I was already a mature teenager just at the time they were born. I did not know that some years later, I would be an elder in their midst. ... I saw courage [in them] that I did not have and it caused me to look deeply into my resources-my artistic resources and my financial resources and say 'If I can but just touch, in some quiet or maybe not so quiet way, the power of their courage, I would have found a way to use my life effectively.'"Gospel great, Pastor Shirley Caesar, was also in attendance and she received the 2009 Trailblazer Award. Caesar shared, "If you really want to know who the real trailblazers are, then you would have to turn around and look at Franklin McCain, Ezell Blair (Jibreel Khazan), Joseph McNeil and the memory of David Richmond. These men, who were young men, were bold enough to go, at such a pivotal time in our country, and sit at a place where they knew they had no business being. But they said 'You know, I'm people too and I am as good as anybody else.'" Mayor Yvonne Johnson also presented Belafonte and Caesar with keys to the city.  In recognition of the sit-in participants, Johnson reminded the audience that President Obama didn't get to the White House alone. "I do want to emphasize how proud Greensboro should be at this moment.   For although President Obama is the embodiment of hope and although he is the very one who made the steep climb to the White House, he did not get in there alone. The Greensboro sit-ins, 49 years ago, played a huge part in what has happened in order for Obama to get to the White House."Other award recipients included 91-year-old Philip Koritz who received the 2009 Unsung Hero Award, presented by his son, Richard Koritz, for his work with the Food Tobacco and Agricultural Workers Union Local 22 in Winston-Salem.   The Sit-In Participants Award went to Bennett graduates Shirley Graham and Joyce Garrett. Garrett's husband, James, (who graduated from N.C. A&amp;T State University) also received the award and accepted it on behalf of his wife and himself. Her musical group was scheduled to perform that same weekend at the Super Bowl. James shared his memory of the historic sit-ins. "Each time they threw egg on your face or spit on you, you knew that progress was being made," said Garrett. The 2009 Community Leadership Award was presented to Bank of America and Ralph Shelton of Southeast Fuels for their support of the ICRCM.
