HILTON HEAD ISLAND -- The nation's recession won't stop the Lance Potato Summit.  Story Tools  Font Size: A A A  tool name  tool goes here  Also in this section  Later this month, the snack manufacturing company will bring 75 to 100 managers and suppliers to Sea Pines Resort.  The group will play golf and Lance will spare no expense on an end-of-gathering banquet. But the company hasn't spent lavishly on the rest of the summit, said purchasing agent Jeff Thomas, who helped organize the trip.  Many participants from around the country will pay their own way, and some company officials will drive from Lance's headquarters in Charlotte.  'We're not being foolish about it,' Thomas said. 'We're a little cautious, if you will.'  That approach is typical of business groups visiting the Lowcountry these days, planners, tourism officials and hoteliers said.  The consensus: Businesses and associations continue to hold events here, but are cutting back on the luxuries.  In-room amenities such as gift baskets are among the first niceties to go, said Gavin McMahon director of sales for Low Country Adventures, which provides transportation and other arrangements for the groups.  Some groups have chosen to downsize rental vehicles or will leave attendees to arrange their own transportation or meals, he said.  Before the economy soured, some business groups came for five nights and booked golfing, spa visits, kayaking and an elaborate dinner, McMahon said. Now, they might opt for only three or four nights and only one of those activities.  'Groups are just watching what they're spending big-time,' he said.  One reason for scaling back may be what some in the industry refer to as the 'AIG effect' or the 'AIG factor.'  The terms refer to the insurance giant criticized for planning a opulent junket after Congress granted it a taxpayer-funded bailout.  Fear of that phenomenon has discouraged some publicly traded companies and incentives-based meetings from heading to resort destinations, said Susan Thomas, vice president of the Hilton Head Island-Bluffton Chamber of Commerce's Visitor &amp; Convention Bureau.  It's unclear how many bookings this downsizing has cost Hilton Head.  The chamber reported group preliminary bookings for 2009 are up 29 percent over the same figure in 2008. But that figure may not reflect the health of the whole industry because some hotels book meeting on their own.  Both McMahon and Thomas said demand for weddings is stronger than ever. That's due in part, they suspect, to people choosing Hilton Head instead of a more expensive Caribbean destination.  At The Westin Resort on the island, group revenues grew from 2007 to 2008. So far this year, however, they are down about 5 percent, director of sales and marketing Ken Nason said.  
