1862: The year that Martin Heubisch and Wilhelm Knaust built what is today known as the Frankenmuth Brewery, where suds could once again flow in the near future.  Sheila Stamiris, executive director of the Frankenmuth Downtown Development Authority, confirmed a purchase agreement between Bank of America and Frankenmuth Brewery Real Estate for the Frankemuth Brewery at 425 S. Main St.  Anmar K. Sarafa, chief investment officer for Birmingham-based Steward Capital Management Inc. bought the property Jan. 30.  Haithem Sarafa, attorney and spokesman for his brother, said negotiations are under way with 'various potential tenants that are interested in running the brewery and restaurant.'  'There's quite a few interested parties right now, and some are local,' he said.  Stamiris said the asking price for the restaurant/brewery was $2.9 million by LaSalle Bank Midwest in 2006, which since has become Bank of America.  Haithem Sarafa declined comment on the actual purchase price.  Stamiris said the business has been closed since November 2006, when the Heine family turned over the property to the bank after not finding a lender to refinance a $3.9 million loan.  Heubisch and Knaust sold the brewery to John G. Geyer in 1874 and the business was renamed Geyer Bros. Brewing Co.  Ownership of the brewery transferred to Ervin Industries and Ferdinand M. Schumacher in 1987 for $365,000 in a bankruptcy settlement. They renamed the business Frankenmuth Brewery Inc.  'It was a great place,' said Schumacher, co-owner and president from 1987 until 1992, when he sold his shares to the Heine family.  Randall E. Heine bought majority ownership from Ervin Industries in 1990, and sold as many as 13,000 barrels of beer in 25 states before an F3 tornado on June 21, 1996, ripped through Little Bavaria.  The establishment was closed for seven years, re-opening in June 2003 after construction of a 300-seat, three-level restaurant.  Haithem Sarafa, also managing director of Steward Capital, said no deadline is set to find an operator.  'Hopefully, we will just turn it around and give it to the people that want it,' he said. 'The faster, the better for all parties concerned.'  
