I told you so. And this is just the beginning. The socialist bill is a failure for a lot of reasons, first and foremost it is the beginning of socialism in this country, and every politician that voted for this (while the majority of the public said, "no") should be thrown out of office and charged with crimes against the constitution. I'm not joking.First it was 300 billion to aid irresponsible home buyers, and then 700 billion. Wait until you hear how that is being spent:WASHINGTON  First, the $700 billion rescue for the economy was about buying devalued mortgage-backed securities from tottering banks to unclog frozen credit markets.Then it was about using $250 billion of it to buy stakes in banks. The idea was that banks would use the money to start making loans again.But reports surfaced that bankers might instead use the money to buy other banks, pay dividends, give employees a raise and executives a bonus, or just sit on it. Insurance companies now want a piece; maybe automakers, too, even though Congress has approved $25 billion in low-interest loans for them.Three weeks after becoming law, and with the first dollar of the $700 billion yet to go out, officials are just beginning to talk about helping a few strapped homeowners keep the foreclosure wolf from the door.As the crisis worsens, the government's reaction keeps changing. Lawmakers in both parties are starting to gripe that the bailout is turning out to be far different from what the Bush administration sold to Congress.Do you really want to reelect any of those fools that shoved this socialist piece of crap welfare check back to office? I say get rid of them all. And the bankers and Wall Street fat cats that are laughing at us while participating in the above? Lynch them. I'm not joking here, either. Lynch them, and hang them by the neck at the nearest tree you can find.Oh! If that's not enough, here's another little juicy morsel I picked up. Remember AIG Insurance? We just had to bail them out to the tune of 87 billion dollars, and with that money, gave themselves bonuses, raises a 400,00 dollar vacation, then, like the fools the federal government is, gave them another 37 billion dollars because the first 87 billion wasn't enough. After they got that, you guessed it, another extravagant vacation, a hunting trip to England.Do you think that's the end of it? Nope! AIG has burned through that extra 37 billion dollars and is now going to congress with their hand out, saying it wasn't enough, they absolutely need more! And here's what I think. Congress, not really known for intelligence and common sense, will more than likely give them more. It's time to sweep everybody out, and start over.More...
