Every loan person I talk to, I learn more.  And every time I think, "Yeah, this is the one!" and then I meet another and learn that the previous one wasn't so good. The first was the lady attached to my Realtor's office.  So you know right away that they are in cohoots.  She has a rate of 6.75 to start off, forgot to properly calculate the Upfront MIP (we are going FHA), and had some artificially low estimates.  The second one gave me a GFE that was about half the proper fields and handwritten.  She also had a bad calculation of because of her calculator gunking up (I found out after going over numbers with Suzanne the next day).  She also ranted at us for a while, making Kar3n cry.  Yesterday, I went to Bank of America on the advice of a coworker at Universal.  She had just gotten a loan there, too, and they were very Universal-friendly, being that they are technically on our lot.  Spoke to the woman for about 10 minutes (and she was very nice for a change) and felt I had a great deal...they cover costs and fees and swear off PMIs.  Sweet!  Unfortunately, they make it up by having a huge interest rate which requires a lot of points to buy down.  What she quoted me over the phone, though, and what she sent me for a GFE were two different things.  So I walked out of the bank thrilled...and crashed into a stress ball again after the debate when I looked it over.Today, I went to Wells Fargo (the amount of banks to go to are fewer and fewer nowadays which makes it easier) and listened to the guy for TWO HOURS about every aspect of loans.  He lectured me about building a relationship with the bank, etc., and pointed out things wrong with every one else's GFE...a trend amongst lenders, I've noticed.  It was the most in depth discussion I've had.  But after I left, I had no numbers to work with.  He says he'll send them to me after his meeting this afternoon.Meanwhile, I start ESCROW on Monday and my realtor keeps pressuring me to choose someone NOW NOW NOW (guess who he wants me to choose?).  I'm finding it hard to muster the sanity to go to work tonight.In other news, tomorrow we inspect the house and I will take pictures for y'all.  Deal?
