&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp;  &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; Stephen Harper is not only a supporter of the North American Union agenda as have been documented. Also, he seems to want to build up the military budget in higher levels. Linda McQuaig from Global Research on October 8, 2008 wrote about this information. Harper is from the Conservative Party, but even the Liberal Party has errors in it. Harper's agenda isn't really hidden, but few Canadian know about it. In June 20th, 2008, Harper posted a plan. This plan is called Canada First Defence Strategy (as found in the Department of National Defense's website) to spend a huge $490 billion over the next 20 years on the military. Steven Staples, who is a defence analyst with the Ottawa-based Rideau Institute, said that Canada's military spending is already 27 per cent higher than in 2001. The defense lobby is now trying to get contracts signed as quickly as possible. Some question on why so much money is being spent on the military when health, poverty, and other needs are needed for assistance. In the election campaign, Harper has accused Liberal Leader Stphane Dion of "reckless spending" for his plan to invest $70 billion in infrastructure over the next 10 years. 70 billion is a drop in the bucket compared to almost 500 billion dollars Harper proposes though. Harper wants this to continue the immoral war in Afghanistan. Stephen Harper also sold out on the abortion issue. He said that he wants no debate whatsoever on the abortion. Harper went as far as saying that he will reject any plans to make any new pro-life laws whatsoever. Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe is ignorant to assume that Harper wants to secretly criminalize abortion when he doesn't want to at all. Harper's position is more extreme than Obama since even Obama believes in little abortion restrictions (though Barack Obama is the most pro-abortion Presidential candidate in U.S. history). Harper is a coward, because all issues should be discussed in government including abortion. Abortion is a big evil in our world. Now, Stephen Harper is the perfect establishment candidate because he won't promote pro-life policies and he's in league with blatant globalization. Of course, Bill Kristol attacked the 9/11 Truth Movement. The 9/11 Truth Movement has grown very potent over the course of 7 years. Some neo cons are jealous and use slander plus intimidate to try to stop this movement. Bill Kristol wrote a piece entitled, "The Truthers' New Friends" where he attacks the 9/11 Truth Movement. This article appeared at this week's editions of the Weekly Standard. The Weekly Standard isn't a real conservative magazine. It's a magazine that promote neo-conservative ideology of civil liberty suppression, empire building, and overspending by the federal government via the Wall Street bailout. This article talked about the screening of Italian film maker Giulietto Chiesa's ZERO on Russian State TV last month. Kristol criticized any questions about the official story on 9/11 as lunatics and anti-American. The truth is that questioning circumstances about 9/11 to decipher the total truth about its cosmology is the epitome of being an American. Chiesa's ZERO was a TV documentary about the 9/11 Truth movement. 30 million Russian citizens were able to switch on their TVs and see a debate about 9/11 being a false flag event. Also, a Russia Today poll 84% of their citizens don't believe that the total truth on 9/11 is shown. Being skeptical of something isn't a sign of lunacy at all. Kristol doesn't want people to understand about the wargames, the COG, Building Number Seven, the intelligence ties to the hijackers, and other facts that completely destroy the official story. Now, Kristol was in PNAC, which was a group of Neo cons who wrote the "New American Century" document&amp;183; That document promoted preemptive war and American military dominance. In 2000, the report said that the activation of their goals of wars (and American empire) were difficult to accomphlish "absent some catastrophic and catalyzing eventlike a new Pearl Harbor." That new Pearl Harbor was of course 9/11. Now, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld's names were on the list of PNAC member (the document also promote genotype specific bioweapons and other nefarious goals as well). The neo conservative agenda is a threat to the world and most Americans reject their goals in 2008. Afghanistan is an immoral war. Afghanistan as a nation had nothing to do with the attacks on 9/11. That nation has been exploited with oil tied leaders and it has been transformed into a narco-state in some of its regions. The battles have increased since 2001 among the Taliban, al-Qaeda, and other groups. ERIC SCHMITT from the NY Times on Wednesday, at October 8, 2008 outlined more facts on the war in Afghanistan. Eric wrote that more than 30 civilians died from the Afghan raid according to an U.S. inquiry. This investigation was lead by the military. The airstrikes detailed that U.S. forces on August 22, 2008 striked a village in western Afghanistan. It killed more civilians than American commanders there have acknowledged. More than 30 human beings died according to the military investigator's report. The investigator, whose name is Brig. Gen. Michael W. Callan of the Air Force, concluded that many more civilians, including women and children, had been buried in the rubble than the military had asserted, one of the military officials said. The airstrikes have caused tensions in the Afgan movement. Afghanis claim that about 90 civilians died in the raid. The United Nations claimed that 90 were killed as well. The military once said that only 5 to 7 died. The 30 figure is expressly different from the military or the UN (and the Aghani government)'s assumptions on the death toil. The military said that Taliban leader Mullah Sadiq died in the raid. Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai strongly condemned the airstrikes. Even before he requested the more senior investigator, General McKiernan issued orders on Sept. 2 tightening the rules about when NATO troops in Afghanistan were authorized to use lethal force. NATO is known for their excessive bombings in Serbia at Belgrade during the late 1990's. Therefore, the Afghanistan war has huge ties to NATO as well not just America or Karzai. Politics are being more intense as time goes on. The media from MSNBC and CNN are accusing the McCain of going too far in their criticizing Barack Obama. The deal revolves around Bill Ayers, ACORN, and other issues. Now, Ayers is a terrorist and is an extremist. Ayers was on an educational board with Obama. This isn't as serious as other issues, but it's important to discuss. I believe that this doesn't merit unfair criticism against Obama since Barack Obama rejected Ayers' Weathermen ideology. Obama has not called for terrorism against American buildings at all, while Ayers have. Guilt by association is only fair if can can prove that one person actively colloborated with the guilty party to do criminal acts (or one person supports the guilty parties' ideology). The critics are right that if I were Obama I wouldn't hang near Ayers. Bill Ayers is an extremist. Also, some members in the crowds of Palin speeches have used degatory language against Barack Obama. That's wrong and you can't totally blame Palin for it. The reason is you have to blame the people saying those stupid comments. Yet, I do believe that John McCain and Sarah ought to proclaim stronger statements publicly condemning that despictable language. I don't agree with McCain calling Obama the One either. Both John McCain's campaign and Barack Obama's campaign criticize each other for being out of touch with American on issues like the economy, health care, and education. The truth is that this election is composed of 2 elite sponsored candidates. If you cut the spin, McCain and Obama believe in war mongering, centralizing power unto the government, laws that violate our civil liberties (from the Patriot Act, the FISA Law, etc.), embryonic stem cell research, global warming hysteria, and overspending in our federal government (that's why they each supported the IRS spying, pro-pork barrel spending, and pro-Wall Street bailout law). Cybill Sherpherd criticized Sarah Palin for saying that she's pro-life. Cybill is a famous liberal activist. There are many legitimate criticism against Palin from being allied to McCain and her foreign policy views. Although, there is nothing wrong with being pro-life at all. Cybill said that people have the right to kill unborn human beings under the guise of "biological integrity" when abortion can cause permanent reproductive damage unto women's reproductive organs (not to mention that despite Cybil's claims, Palin has only opposed birth control that involves an abortion of human life). She doesn't understand that dangerous side effects can occur unto women experiencing abortion. Abortion has nothing to do with women's rights. It has to do with suppressing the rights of human beings in the womb of the mother. Not to mention that Roe has not only increased abortion in America, it hasn't solved abortion problems at all. Steven Ertelt from LifeNews.com on October 8, 2008 reported on Mark Warner's big error. Mark said these comments on tape, so he can't deny it. This is worse than Obama's words about people clinging to guns or religion for stability in their lives. Mark Warner said that pro-life people, the NRA, and homeschoolers are threatening to what it means to be an American. The media isn't reporting on this story at all for obvious reasons. The truth is that supporting the Second Amendment, being religiously a Christian, being pro-life, and loving educational choice in having homeschooling (not to mention that homeschoolers are from across the political spectrum and they aren't monolithic at all) existing is hardly anti-American. It's pro-American. Being an American is following true liberty and respecting diversity of thoug...
