 Foodconsumer.org reveals something about the McCain health care insurance tax credit nobody else has reported so far - it's a scam.The only way anyone qualifies for the health care tax deduction ($2500 for single Americans and $5000 for families) is if they leave their employers insurance plan and purchase a private health insurance plan.Which means that people get screwed across the board on all levels. The only ones making out are big business, who would have to cover fewer employees, and insurance companies, who would be able to sell bare minimum coverage insurance and not have to pay for many medical expenses that have been covered for decades.Here's an example. If you are married with two kids and are paying the national average employee's share, $3300 per year for insurance, that means your employer is currently paying $9,300 (the avg. family plan costs $12,600). McCain wants to save your employer from paying a single penny to provide you with health insurance, so he will tax both parts of your insurance, the part you pay, and the part your employer pays. So if you currently earn $40,000 per year, you will be taxed as if you are earning $52,600.To encourage you to leave your employer's insurance coverage, McCain will give you a $5,000 tax credit (remember, it's only $2,500 for singles). The problem is that the avg. health care premium for a family is still $12,600. That means if you leave your employer, you'll be on the hook for the part you were paying, $3,300, and the part your employer was paying, $9,300. Subtracting a tax credit at the end of the year still means you would pay $7,600 per year in premiums, more than double what the average American family is paying now. The only "benefit" in McCain's plan is that if you purchase private health insurance, as opposed to your employer's plan, the premiums would not be taxed as income. So if you earn $40,000 a year, you would still be taxed on $40,000. But you would be paying an extra $4,300 for health insurance per year. McCain claims that his plan will make insurance companies compete and ultimately lower rates. But experts say the lower rates will come at the expense of coverage. Many everyday occurrences that are covered now would likely be dropped - braces, hospital stays during pregnancies, chiropractic treatments, psychiatric care, etc.As Barack Obama pointed out in last Tuesday's debate, the insurance companies will all move to whatever state has the least requirements. The analogy Obama used was with the credit card companies. They are all based out of Delaware because Delaware laws allow higher interest rates, higher fees, etc. There are basically no credit card laws in Delaware so the companies can charge whatever they want.So yes, the cost of insurance might go down under John McCain, but the cost to consumers would go up because they would be forced to pay the entire bill for many everyday treatments and their share of the premium would skyrocket, or they would be taxed as a penalty for not buying private insurance.It's important to note that there are almost 400 lobbyists working in the McCain campaign. The lobbyists have directly influenced the policies McCain claims as his own. It's not a surprise to know that McCain has taken hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign donations from those same lobbyists and the companies they represent. This is one such policy. It was dreamed up by the insurance industry as a "dream scenario" where their soaring profits continue to skyrocket at the expense of everyday stiffs like you and me.LiveLeak.com talked about the insurance companies writing McCain's health care plan a few weeks ago when the government bailed out AIG just before the $700 billion giveaway.LiveLeak revealed that AIG has donated "above $50,000" to a phony non-profit institute McCain set up in 2001. McCain's campaign manager was paid $395,000 by McCain's "non-profit." What Rick Davis did for that $400k nobody knows. There's also no record on how much "above $50,000" AIG gave to McCain. But it did get AIG some big time return on their investment:"Martin Feldstein, who serves on the board of AIG, is one of McCain&amp;#8217;s top economic advisers. Earlier this month, Feldstein gushed in the Wall Street Journal over McCain&amp;#8217;s plans to cut taxes even further, and to shift healthcare costs from employers to employees in a &amp;#8220;tax credit&amp;#8221; scheme that many believe will solely benefit insurance companies, at the expense of workers. Since AIG is&amp;#8211;or was&amp;#8211;the world&amp;#8217;s largest insurance company, it stood to gain from McCain&amp;#8217;s policies."For citizens, McCain's plan is lose-lose. For fat-cat businessmen, it's just a continuation of the Bush doctrine.  
