         Sorry to hijack your thread pacdraft but it doesn&amp;#039;t seem justified to start a new thread about essentially the same problem.  I have been chasing the Woolwich for progress on my application - same mortgage deal as the OP. This application was first made in early June via telephone and I submitted the written application a few days later including the ID requested and certified by a staff member at the local Barclays Bank branch. It took 2 weeks for them to let me know that as the local branch had failed to apply the branch stamp (although the other stamps on there were plainly Barclays rubber stamps)I had to resubmit the ID - another lunchtime gone. Another couple of weeks goes by, no response. Phonecall to find out what&amp;#039;s going on. They say I need to send in my last payslip and bank statement - would help if they had communicated that request in some fashion rather than wait for me to phone. Sent off required info and was told I would hear something in 5-10 days. Nothing so far. Phoned this morning. They said they are still waiting for information from me...???? What info, I ask. Bank statement they say. I sent it already says I. It didn&amp;#039;t have your salary credit on they say, so I will have to send another one. When exactly were you going to let me know I needed to send another bank statement in, I ask - silence on other end of the phone. We are obviously now expected to be telepathic.  I cannot understand why a simple  remortgage  has to become so stressful and difficult to complete. The home improvements I had hoped to get done with it are starting to recede as they involve external work and I cannot progress with them without a confirmed  remortgage  offer. I&amp;#039;m away most of September so that puts them back until October at least now and probably to next year if the weather isn&amp;#039;t good.  On top of all that, I don&amp;#039;t of course know if they are going to honour the original mortgage deal after all this time. This is turning into one of the most frustrating experiences of recent years and clearly the only way to go is as lisa suggests and phone them daily to make sure they&amp;#039;re on to it.  I think I might just cancel the whole friggin&amp;#039; thing!                  
