         Hi guys,  Many thanks for your thoughts, suggestions and opinions - I do take on what you are saying and actually for the first time taking responsibility of what have I got myself into!  I haven&amp;#039;t given much detail about how my circumstances have arose, but it started around 2004 when a relationship broke down, we were buying the house together in joint names and at the 11th hour my ex would not get approved on the mortgage as his salary was not enough as he already owned two other properties - anyway I was earning 150k and I got the mortgage in my sole name.  We ended up splitting up and I lived in the house on my own.  My salary dropped off slightly in `05, `06 and I had a few job changes and now I am earning between 90-100k but I lived like I was still bringing home 6-10k per month.  My main passion was my horses, I bred dutch warmbloods, and holidays in the caribbeaan - this has now curbed and for the first few months of this year, I am living within my monthly take home salary.  I think over the last 36-48 months I have put day to day things on my cards, shopping, pertrol etc, I treated my credit limits as if they were real cash amounts and not really worried about how to pay it back - as I always managed to pay off lump sums in any one month.  I started taking out more cards and in 2006 my Barclays premier acc mgr suggested I consolidate into one loan - I agreed and we thought 100k seemed like a good number, (I know its crazy!)  But some months I earnt 22k, anyway I paid off everything and had a loan 948 per month, but although I ripped up the cards, I didn&amp;#039;t cancel the accounts, so although I never received a statement when the cards expired I automatically received new ones.  I also was quite generous with meals out, presents, just generally being flash.  So I imagine I spent between 1-3k extra, every month for the last couple of years and changing jobs in 2005 I only earnt 70k, but still had the house, council tax, bills, etc etc and just simply leaned on my cards and thought, I will pay some next month.  Eventually you awap cards round to get 0%, and then before you know it they are up at their max.  I have 14k on Egg, 9k on Citi, 15k overdraft with Barclays, 12k on Barlcays Select, 5k MBNA, 6k Virgin Money, 4k barclaycard, 8k unsecured loan.  I also had no-one telling me what I was doing was wrong, I just lived on the never never.  Anyway this week, I have earnt between 15-18k comission.............BRILLIANT!  This means I will take home net 10k probably spread over the next 3 months.  So my SOA should now look like 6k for my salary.  (My best months are ramping up, through to Dec, I should do my best numbers as it runs upto end of year)  I have set up a NEW premier bank account with NO facilities only VISA debit with my partner and my salary as from July will be paid straight into it.  Barclays will not be happy, but I cannot live with -12k overdraft, get paid and then I am still in the overdraft so I am pulling aw2ay from Barclays and will have to have a conversation with them about how I repay them every month.  I have also set up a second joint account and have written to all the 5 mortgage lenders and agreed that all the mortgages get paid on 5th of the month and our tennants pay in my 1st month.  (I have never defaulted on my mortgages, nor has my partner)  Which means I am now going to live in the black and I am negotiating with my creditors a plan to pay back the unsecured stuff.  I will look at the snowballing link and work on paying back my highest APR&amp;#039;s first.  The second thing is my company have agreed that I can work right upto my due date, which means I may be late having the baby by a week or so, (I know it can be early too) but what I am saying is if I do not drop until mid Oct, then my maternity will get paid upto Xmas, then I have 33.5 days holidays to take and I figure I can take 2 days per week until mid April, so I only need to show my face on a Monday and can work from home Tues and Wednesday.  I do take onboard about a bad sleeper and demanding babies, so my plan may not work, but at least I can try it out.  I spoke to Barclays secured loan and although I am 2k in arrears, they said that once it reaches 4 months in arrrears it gets to solicitors who give 14 days to pay and then start legal re-po proceedings, so I plan on paying the arrears and keeping the payments of 1100 per month, as it is not worth me letting the house get repossed.  It has gone on the market with 2 agents - I negotaited a 1% multi fee, if nothing by mid Aug then it is being rented to the family of four, that have already paid the holding deposit.  I have not heard back yet from the tennants in the flat, but they may it, I need to speak to them this week.    My partner is great, he knows about my loans and debt, and although he is worried, and he is working all hours and taking on more work to cover us when I am off.  He has agreed to pay all our living costs over my maternity period, he owns a building company and has 4 or 5 guys that work for him and he has no debts, just an overdraft for his business.  He is good for me, as will only buy things if he has the cash! So its really because of him he has made me face up to the extent of my problems and get focused on sorting it.  For an example, he has not let me buy ANYTHING for the baby, only a moses basket of eBay for 26!  He has decorated the room and put down a solid bamboo floor, but it has no cot bed or drawer unit yet!  There are built in wardrobes, so I knpow when bubba comes I can feed it and it will sleep with me in the moses basket for the first few weeks.  I will get loads of baby clothes as my sisters, friends etc have already said they are sending me theirs!  So this is good, as nothing has gone on credit.  BTW - I haven&amp;#039;t ever bought furniture on credit, only 0%.  I have bought 42&amp;amp;quot; and 50&amp;amp;quot; TV&amp;#039;s, but that is with cash!  I will start to sell my stuff and will start to do car boot sales, as if I leave it too late I will get too big and will not want to!  Thanks for your help, catch up soon.  K                  
