If you have dealt with POL in the past, then you realize that this was sudden.  I speculated over a lot of issues, but Maria always made it appear that her hands were tied and she was doing the best she could.  After the Hotwire things kept happening; it began to show that things were shady.  However, I was already sitting on a number of banked auctions.  Having dealt with her on numerous occasions though, I also learned that she was slow as can be if you pushed her.    A couple of facts though:  I have been to Mexico 2x, St. Thomas, Washington DC, Paris (actually gave trip to my Uncle) and Marco Island.  I have never once seen a certificate for Air or Hotel.  That was her way of making you feel like she was going out of the way for you; doing the electronic e*ticket in the 11th hour.  Second - I think we all realize that POL isn&amp;#039;t going to give you a dime for anything beyond your package price...nor should they.  AIG offers travel insurance, and that is what it is out there for.  I&amp;#039;m more concerned with getting a dime of the actual amount I paid for my remaining unused auctions.    Third - In the NonProfit Times, the CEO reports a gross income of $100,000 in 2007.  If that is the case, my business partner, my uncle and I were the only customers.  There is no way on Earth that she could believe that dollar amount to be true.  Can anyone explain that???  I have spoken both yesterday and today (they have actually called me back within 3 minutes of me emailing questions) to a representative at Points of Light.  My questions were; Does POL have possession of the proceeds to actually issue refunds, or did the &amp;quot;Contractor&amp;quot; make off with the cash?  I have yet to see any reassurance of this on their website.  Next question, please give me the police report number and the precinct so I can get a copy of the police report to give to American Express when I file my claim.  Answer to both questions was,  &amp;quot;Our legal team has advised me not to answer your questions&amp;quot; .  Now honestly; if they have the money, wouldn&amp;#039;t it make a whole lot of sense to let us know.  It would relieve a lot of anxiety for a lot of people.  They may have the best intentions in the world to refund peoples money, but that isn&amp;#039;t going to happen if they don&amp;#039;t have the money to refund.  After all, their CEO says they brought in $100k last year.  Given the fact that nearly 5000 claims have been filed, that&amp;#039;s an average of $20 each.  Wow!!  Time for a reality check!!!   
