                                           Ok, some information over my rant here.    1.  I have had Nationwide Insurance on all of my Homes, Cars, rental properties and such since I came back from Australia 3 years ago.    2.  I have had NW insurance since before I left to Australia and maintained them on my property in the states while in Australia.  3.  I have set my online payment to debit my account monthly since the beginning and this has not changed in the last 3 years.   4.  I have gotten the new cards for the cars every year and no changes in coverage amounts have been stated.     I went to the PO box this week.  My weekly trip to the PO.  I pulled my mail and read it today as I do every sunday.  I open up a letter from Nationwide, thinking it was an advertisement, as they do send out a bunch of useless propoganda to their current customer base.  This one said, &amp;amp;quot;Important Information Regarding your Account&amp;amp;quot; on the front so I opened it. To my surprise I have a statement in there that says that I am being canceled.  Why?  They say that they have not gotten my FULL payment since last month.  Well, that can not be right.  I log in to my Chase online banking and see that I made the same payment for the last 3 plus years at the same time of the month, every month, including last month.    So now I begin to wonder what the hell is going on.  I pull up all my old docos from NW insurance from the last 3 years and I see that there has not been any change in my account information nor any changes in my billing information that would warrant them getting any less from me or claiming I am not sending all of my money to them.  I mean it was really easy to look at as I do not get a billing statement from that company and only get my renewals.  I have asked repeatedly for this, but still to no avail have I gotten one.    I even went back through my shred pile where i toss all of the advertisement crap that has my name on it. I looked through this and see all the ads and paperwork that they sent to me for the last year...yes I am a procrastinator when it comes to shredding my crap.  Not a single billing statement in there and only advertisements.      I now had my wife look through my records as well and she too could not locate any changes in billing.  So I am sitting here in awe wondering why some retard at some company is sending me something that states they are canceling my policy due to non payment.  I looked again at the online billing and see that the account information is correctly being applied to the transfers, the correct amount is there, and it is going off 2 weeks prior to the due date.   So again, i sit here in amazement.    I called their &amp;amp;quot;877&amp;amp;quot; number for billing. I get told that I am past due on my account for the last 2 months. That they increased my premium, without informing me about this ironically, and that they are going to cancel my account due to non payment.      WTF.  Who are the idiots that run this shithole of a company?  They can increase my premium, I am fully aware of this, but they also have to inform you of this increase, without such knowledge you are left in the dark and they are fully responsible, clearly as they are here.  I have not gotten a single notification from this stupid company stating that my premium was going up.  I never got a single statement stating what my premium was.  I never got anything but a effing cancellation notice from this company.    Clearly they are not a reliable source of anything when it comes to doing business. I can see why they have lost many a customer and clearly this is just the tip of the iceberg with them.   They have screwed many people over doing this very thing.  I never signed up for NO PAPER statements, but alas they claim I have, but can not produce my signature on a piece of paper stating this nor my voice recorded stating this.     This is bullshit. I do over 1k a month on homeowners, auto and rental property insurance with them and they are pulling this bullshit over a whole 54 bucks in 2 months now.  Clearly, they have and will lose my business. I am making this post now to inform other people of the idiots there that can not do their jobs and are full of shit in the way they conduct business.  This is not my first blog on this and will not be my last. I will be posting on the WSJO later today too. A little more cleaned up, but a little more anger filled.     Cliffs for the retards.  Nationwide insurance canceling me due to 54 bux over 2 months on a policy they renewed and did not inform me of a price increase.  I am pissed, moving to allstate and posting this here and on the WSJO blogging section.  ...
