Email From Mrs Pratt. Dear Solivakasama and Adi Kaila,  It has just come to my notice that I Rosalind Pratt nee Rosa of Townsville, Queensland is the Rosi that was supposedly writing names of those that protested in Adelaide after the 1987 Coup and forwarding it to the Fiji Times.  At the time of the Coup my husband Peter Pratt was working in Tennant Creek, Northern Territory and when the Coup happened we were in Darwin and remember saying to our friends that because Ratu Mara had supported the coup it must have something to do with the Indian population. From the end of 1986 to 1989 my husband was the manager of the Westpac Bank and we were not living in Adelaide.  Yes Ratu Joni and Everett Leung were studying law and were still there when my husband was transferred to Tennant Creek. I have known Ratu Joni and Everett all my life as we were all born in Levuka, Ovalau and consider them as very dear friends. We saw a lot of each other when we all lived in Adelaide.  I have no idea why it was necessary to mention the fact that my late dear mother was the sister of Ratu Mara&amp;#8217;s mother and that I share the same mother with the late Ratu Dreu. I wouldn&amp;#8217;t have minded if it helped my fight against those that participated in the 2006 Coup.  Yes I did support the Rabuka coup and that was because I trusted Ratu Mara and believed that if Ratu Mara supported Rabuka it was the right thing for my birth country but today as I am older and wiser have come to realize that coups are illegal and will have no part of it. As Adi Kaila has mentioned I have written many letters to the Fiji Times condemning the Bainimarama 2006 Coup.  My paternal grandmother is a taukei from the Tui Yacata clan on the small island of Yacata in the Cakaudrove Province. Something I treasure very much and believe very strongly in sustaining the taukei culture and traditions. As Everett said, &amp;#8220;I also believe that there is no alternative social or political change except through an elected parliament following the legal processes.&amp;#8221;  I hope I have made myself clear and nobody has the right to rubbish my family or use my name in this slanderous way.  Go look into my life as far as you want and you will find nothing to support any malicious rumours or innuendos.  Solivakasama Adi kaila is not a registered member of the Solivakasama worldwide movement 
