Moody's Investors Service said it lowered its corporate family and probability of default ratings for Bon-Ton Stores to Caa2 from B3. Bon-Ton's speculative grade liquidity rating is affirmed at SGL-3. The rating outlook remains negative.   The rating agency also said the rating on the company's senior unsecured notes was also lowered to Caa3 from Caa1. The notes, due 2014, were issued in March 2006 in the amount of $510 million to partially support Bon-Ton's acquisition of Saks Northern department store group   Moody's noted that the rating downgrade takes into consideration the company's weaker than anticipated fourth quarter operating performance, with total sales declining by 9.4% and income from operations (excluding impairment charges) falling nearly 40%. As a result, the company's debt/EBITDA was in the mid 7 times range for the most recently ended fiscal year. Due to continued challenging macro economic conditions, Bon-Ton has stated it anticipates comparable store sales to fall in the range of 6.5-9.0% during 2009 with EBITDA expected to decline further from the weak levels reported in 2008. As a result we anticipate that leverage will remain at elevated levels for an extended period of time.   The two-notch downgrade reflects not only Bon Ton's weaker operating performance but also Moody's concern with the company's liquidity profile over the intermediate term and with its capital structure, 'which we consider to be increasingly unsustainable given the current level of performance,' Moody's said. Bon-Ton's existing asset-based lending facility expires in March, 2011 and the company believes that it will need to begin negotiations to extend or replace this facility during 2010, Moody's noted. According to a filing in March 2006, Bon-Ton entered into a $1.0 billion senior secured revolver led by Bank of America, as agent, and a $260 million loan facility with Bank of America, as lender. The facilities, along with the senior notes referenced above, were established to finance the acquisition of Saks Northern Department Store Group.   Moody's said it believes the company's risk profile and probability of default has increased and will remain elevated until such time as it addresses the renewal, extension, or restructuring of this facility. While Bon Ton's current and expected leverage is not consistent with its previous B3 rating, should the company successfully extend or renew its credit facility and demonstrate that its capital structure is sustainable, ratings could be modestly upgraded.   Moody's did note, however, that Bon-Ton's current level of availability under the asset based lending facility has moderated from historical levels due to a reduction in appraised inventory values, as well as due to a deliberate decision to reduce inventory levels in the current environment.   Moody's last rating action on Bon-Ton Stores was on January 21, 2009 when the company's corporate family rating was lowered to B3 from B2 with a negative rating outlook. 
