How does one man owning five shares in a private company with a paid-up capital of about $10 manage to frustrate the sale of an aviation leasing business with 68 aircraft?  It's a good question and one that Allco preference shareholders will be pondering as former Allco principal David Veal enforces his legal rights to the ownership of the aircraft.  Other questions the preference shareholders might ask are: what legitimate interest does Veal have in the sale of Allco's aviation leasing assets? Should Veal be utilising an asset that was effectively acquired through his privileged position as an Allco director?  Veal is one of the masters of structured finance that flourished under the Allco banner. He learned his skills alongside David Coe and at the feet of former Allco founder John Kinghorn.  He is the sole director and owner of Allco Australian Holdings Ltd (AAHL), which has the legal rights to the 68 aircraft in the Allco aviation leasing business.  In any leasing deal there has always got to be an asset owner even though all the value is sucked out much higher up the chain through complex structured finance arrangements. While the aircraft are worth billions that value is not attributed to the residual owner.  Veal is effectively the holder of the legal title to the aircraft. He took control of AAHL last year when he bought out the other shareholders.  It could be argued that Veal has no valid economic interest in the aviation business because he is not receiving any of the financial benefits of the management rights that are attached to the individual aircraft.  The Allco aviation leasing business is believed to have management rights with a net present value of $150 million.  It is those management rights that have attracted interest from local and international specialists in aviation leasing.  Allco's preference shareholders are entitled to anything left over after the leasing assets are sold and other secured creditors paid. The assets are being sold by Allco's receivers, Steve Sherman and Peter Gothard from Ferrier Hodgson.  Ferriers were appointed by Allco's five banks including Westpac, Commonwealth Bank and National Australia Bank.  Veal is trying to keep a pretty low profile and is avoiding all media engagement. He declined an offer from Business Spectator to talk about the aviation leasing situation.  Veal has positioned himself perfectly to capitalise on his ownership of what was once an Allco off-balance-sheet entity with no intrinsic value. Buyers of the assets have to deal with him as well as with Ferrier Hodgson.  Bankers say that Veal's intervention helps to explain why the offers for the assets are either very conditional or very low.  Related Industry Sectors  View the latest stories on Aviation  View the latest stories on Financial Services  Related People  View all stories on DAVID COE  View all stories on DAVID VEAL  View all stories on JOHN KINGHORN  View all stories on PETER GOTHARD  View all stories on STEVE SHERMAN  Related Companies  View all stories on ALLCO FINANCE GROUP  View all stories on FERRIER HODGSON  CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION  Comments are submitted for possible publication on the condition that they may be edited. Please include your full name, title and a working email address (for verification, not publication). Preference will be given to succinct contributions. We may contact you via email prior to publication.  
