Australia's only listed health insurer, NIB Holdings, has formed an alliance with the National Australia Bank that it hopes will boost its membership by 5000 by the middle of next year.  The Newcastle-based insurer said the deal with NAB, which will allow it to market its products directly to the bank's customers and offer them a 'value health insurance' product, is a formative step into the financial services sector. 'We've made no secret of the fact that we're very interested in developing growth and diversification opportunities, particularly in the financial sector,'' NIB managing director Mark Fitzgibbon said. 'The relationship between NIB and NAB is obviously in its early stages, but we see this as a significant step towards pursuing these ambitions.''  The sharemarket responded positively to the news, pushing up the NIB share price by 4 cents to 85 cents.  Despite saying it expected to add 5000 customers over the next 15 months by tapping into NAB's customer base, the insurer has not altered its guidance for the current financial year, and has declined to issue guidance for the 2010 financial year.  For this financial year, the insurer expects both its policy-holder numbers and net underwriting margin to increase by about 4%.  NAB regional general manager, consumer product solutions, John Salamito said the bank was looking forward to diversifying the services it offered its customers. 'We have teamed up with NIB to add a range of health insurance products to expand our current financial and non-financial suite of products that will continue to provide real value to our customers,'' he said.  Like all health insurers, NIB has faced a financial squeeze due to the cost of health care growing in excess of premium increases, and the exodus of younger and healthier customers after changes last year to the Medicare Levy Surcharge that made health insurance less attractive.  The company demutualised and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in 2007 and has faced pressure to increase its business.  Last October, NIB dismissed a tentative takeover proposal as 'inadequate'', and has otherwise been absent from consolidation in the sector despite saying it was keen to take part.  From the start of this month, its premiums increased by an average of 5.18%, less than the 6.02% industry average. The Age
