ERIC DANIELS, the American chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group, was last night under pressure to come clean over his personal tax affairs after his company received a 260 billion government bailout.   Daniels, who earns 1m a year, receives a 25,000 allowance for tax planning advice, paid for by the bank. Lloyds, which could now be up to 77% owned by the taxpayer, refused to say whether the chief executive had reduced his tax bill by claiming non-domicile status.   Sources said last night that Daniels, who was previously a high-flyer at Citibank, had legitimately kept his non-dom status when he joined the board of Lloyds TSB in 2001. He had previously worked in Chile, Panama and Argentina. Non-dom status would enable him to avoid paying UK tax on foreign earnings.   Daniels, 57, who lives in Belgravia, central London, with his Panamanian wife and 18- year-old son, is also in line to receive a Lloyds pension pot worth more than 2.8m, the bill for which will now be picked up by the taxpayer. He is believed to have a second home in Panama.   Jim Cousins, a Labour member of the Treasury select committee, said: Taxpayers are taking enormous risks by rescuing these banks and it is absolutely obvious and fundamental that the people running these banks should be full UK taxpayers. There is a fundamental question of public trust here. Its essential that the executives at the top of these banks are in the same boat as the taxpayer. The disclosure came as the opposition seized on the effective nationalisation of Lloyds as proof that Gordon Browns gamble in pushing through a shotgun marriage to rescue HBOS had instead destroyed both.   More than 1m small shareholders in Lloyds have lost 85% of the value of their portfolio since September when the merger was announced with HBOS, which had 2m small shareholders.   Roger Lawson, of the UK Shareholders Association, described investors as incandescent. He said: They would like to see the whole board go because its been a total disaster. Under the terms of the bailout finalised yesterday, the taxpayer will take a controlling stake in Lloyds in return for agreeing to underwrite 260 billion of toxic debt. Yesterday ministers were unable to say how much the taxpayer stands to lose, with Stephen Timms, financial secretary to the Treasury, saying we just dont know to speculation that up to 100 billion was at risk.   The deal will boost lending to business and homeowners. The number of homeowners in negative equity who also have mortgages with Britains state-controlled banks is expected to reach 1.7m by the end of the year. The Lloyds bailout means the state has also become one of Britains largest housebuilders the bank owns a string of private construction firms.   In Westminster attention was focusing on the personal role of the prime minister, who was the architect of last years takeover of HBOS. The deal, which Brown hoped would save HBOS, instead destabilised Lloyds, forcing it to seek a government rescue.   The merger was sealed during a meeting between Brown and Sir Victor Blank, chairman of Lloyds, at a drinks party last September, where the prime minister signalled that he would waive normal competition rules. Last night Michael   THE Archbishop of Canterbury last night blamed the financial crisis on a spectacular failure of responsibility by the government.   Dr Rowan Williams said: It is a little too easy to blame the situation on an accumulation of individual greed, and to lose sight of the fact that governments committed to deregulation and to the encouragement of speculation and high personal borrowing were elected repeatedly in Britain and the US. He said societys judgment had become skewed. 
