NATIONAL Australia Bank is set to rule out any immediate sale or expansion of its British division this week as the crisis in the British financial services industry deepens with another of the country's major banks taken into state control.  The dire position of the British banking sector has restricted NAB's flexibility to forge a definitive longer-term direction for its Clydesdale and Yorkshire bank franchises, with the group opting to stick with the two regional businesses for the immediate future.  NAB's new chief executive, Cameron Clyne, who succeeded John Stewart on January 1 this year, will tell investors on Thursday at the unveiling of his new strategy for the group that the bank has chosen to bunker down in Britain for the forseeable future.  That is likely to last for as long as two years while Britain recovers from the global financial crisis. Two of its top four banks have sought the shelter of government ownership after racking up tens of billions of pounds in losses due to their exposure to toxic assets.  Lloyds Banking Group, which earlier this year came to the rescue of the troubled lender HBOS, agreed at the weekend to the British Government increasing its stake to 65 per cent stake in return for it insuring 260 billion ($A575.48 billion) of its riskiest assets.  The move was partly forced on Lloyds after HBOS made a record pre-tax loss of 10.8 billion for 2008 and wrote off 9.9 billion worth of bad consumer loans.  HBOS' troubles caused it to sell the Western Australia-based BankWest to the Commonwealth Bank for $2.4 billion last last year. The British lender took a $1.85 billion loss on the deal.  The weekend's events saw Lloyds join the Royal Bank of Scotland in majority state control. RBS is now 70 per cent owned by the Government, having taken out 'insurance' under the asset protection scheme to cover bad assets worth 325 billion.  Both Lloyds and RBS have, in return, guaranteed to pump 53 billion into the economy to underpin the lending needs of businesses and consumers hit by the global credit crunch.  The effective nationalisation of the two troubled groups leaves Barclays and HSBC as the only major British high street banks not controlled by the state.  NAB's subsidiaries have so far avoided the dire problems encountered by the big banks and a number of smaller regional institutions including Northern Rock, the first British bank to suffer a run on its finances in modern times. That caused it to fall into the Government's hands last year.  Mr Clyne will seek to reassure concerned investors at his strategy briefing that the Yorkshire and Clydesdale banks are in the best shape they have been under NAB's ownership.  NAB is the only major Australian bank with a sizeable retail branch and domestic lending presence in Britain.  
