 Torcuil Crichton and Tim Sharp  Sir Fred Goodwin, the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, has already been paid 3m in an advance on his huge 703,000-a-year pension, it emerged yesterday. Treasury minister Lord Myners revealed that the ex-RBS chief took out lump sum as part of his severance package as the government bailed out the failing Scottish bank to the tune of 20bn. He has since agreed in principle to return it, but would in return take an even larger pension.  The minister commented: 'I think one has to admire, in a non-approving way, the dexterity of Sir Fred Goodwin in respect of his own contract.' advertisement Lord Myners found himself at the centre of the blame storm surrounding Sir Fred's pension last month, following accusations that he effectively signed off the 16.9m package for the former chief executive.  Speaking to the Treasury Select Committee yesterday he again denied that this had been the case. 'The decision on the pension was made by the board directors of RBS. I made no decision,' he told MPs investigating the bank's collapse.  Laying the blame for the payout at the door of the RBS boardroom, he said it was 'beyond my comprehension' that RBS directors had not exercised their discretion to reduce Sir Fred's pension. 'Someone at RBS took the decision to treat him more favourably than required,' said Lord Myners. The further revelations came as US President Barack Obama delivered a stinging criticism of corporate bonus culture in the ailing AIG insurance corporation, which like RBS is now part-owned by the state.  Mr Obama labelled AIG reckless and greedy during a blistering attack in which he pledged to try to block the insurance giant from handing its executives millions of dollars in bonuses.  Mr Obama and his top aides expressed outrage at reports that AIG went ahead with issuing $165m (117m) in bonuses even though the company received more than $170bn (121bn) in federal rescue money.  Mr Obama has directed his Treasury Secretary, Timothy Geithner, to see whether there is any way to retrieve or stop the bonus money.  A similar strategy is being pursued in Downing Street, with Lord Myners hinting that there could still be legal action to try to recoup Sir Fred Goodwin's pension pot.  permission is prohibited. 
