The FTSE 100 plunged 5.3 per cent to the lowest level for six years  its biggest one-day fall since November.  Shares on Wall Street tumbled too after AIG  once the worlds most powerful insurance giant and Manchester Uniteds shirt sponsor  reported a 44billion loss for the last three months of 2008.  It is the biggest-ever quarterly loss by an American company.  Meanwhile, there were fears of hundreds more job cuts on the high street after fashion chains Shoe Studio and Principles went into administration.  Struggling electrical retailer Comet also warned that it may axe up to 280 staff.  And 11billion was wiped off the value of banking giant HSBC as shares plunged nearly 20 PER CENT after it reported a sharp fall in profits and asked shareholders for a 12.5billion bailout.  David Buik, analyst at BGC Partners, told the Sun: It comes down to this  why would anyone want to own any stock at all at the moment?  Profits are down across the board and the economy is on its knees.  Whatever our esteemed leaders come up with, people realise its going to take months before it even looks like working. The Footsie ended yesterday down 204 points at 3625  and experts believe it could tumble below 3200.  Only four of the top 100 companies made any gains as shares also plunged in France and Germany.  The US Dow Jones index fell below the 7000 mark and touched its lowest level since May 1 1997.  Legendary US investor Warren Buffett had warned over the weekend that the US economy would be in shambles throughout 2009.  Principles and Shoe Studio were part of Mosaic Fashions  run by collapsed Icelandic group Baugur.  The other chains within Mosaic, including Karen Millen and Oasis, were saved from collapse by the existing management team and Icelandic bank Kaupthing.  But Principles and Shoe Studio will be run by administrators at Deloitte until a buyer can be found.  The two chains employ 4,170 staff, running 107 stores and 570 concessions.  Debenhams and Sir Philip Green have both been linked with Principles in recent weeks.  Japanese stocks fell to a fresh 26-year low Tuesday after the Dow Jones industrial average closed below 7000 for the first time in more than 11 years, on growing fears over the health of the US financial sector.  
