ANZ will remain in the corporate watchdog's crosshairs over the Opes Prime debacle despite contributing the lion's share of a $253 million settlement pool that is expected to deliver a return of 40c in the dollar to customers of the collapsed stockbroker.  In return for cash contributions by ANZ and Merrill Lynch to a 'global settlement' agreement, the Australian Securities &amp; Investments Commission yesterday said it would release the Opes co-financiers from two potential civil actions it had been investigating.   ANZ, however, agreed to an enforceable undertaking that will result in a thorough, year-long review of its securities lending operations by an ASIC-appointed expert.   This followed the watchdog's identification of a long list of compliance concerns, including a failure to lodge substantial shareholder notices in securities the bank had acquired as a result of the Opes collapse.   On top of that, there were poor reconciliation processes, inadequate resourcing and risk management, inaccurate and delayed responses to beneficial tracing notices, and a poor overall compliance culture in which deficiencies were not remedied in a timely manner.   ASIC chairman Tony D'Aloisio defended the proposed settlement, which must be approved by creditors, arguing there were significant risks and costs in litigation for all sides. 'Weighing up the benefits of litigation against those risks, ASIC believes that a compromise settlement which is acceptable to Opes Prime creditors and approved by the court makes commercial sense,' Mr D'Aloisio said.   The Opes collapse in March last year, involving about $1.6billion of shares held by the financiers at the time administrators were appointed, triggered an avalanche of court cases, including class actions against ANZ and Merrill spearheaded by Slater &amp; Gordon and IMF Australia.   Investors claimed they were misled about the ownership of shares pledged for margin loans, because the stock ultimately vested with the financiers despite Opes marketing material saying investors would retain title.   In August, ANZ chief executive Mike Smith handed down the bank's damning review of the Opes mess, which exposed deep cultural and management failings.   Eight people were sacked, including two senior executives on the bank's 10-member management board -- institutional boss Peter Hodgson and chief risk officer David Stephen. 'No chief executive likes to be in the position that I find myself in today; it is not ANZ's finest hour,' Mr Smith said at the time.   The upside for ANZ yesterday was that ASIC released the bank from potential claims arising from two civil investigations.   The first was that ANZ and Merrill Lynch had helped Opes operate a managed investment scheme (MIS) between July 2006 and March last year that had not been registered.   According to ASIC, the Opes business model normally operated in the wholesale market, where participants were more sophisticated and hada greater understanding of their rights and obligations.   The watchdog said in a statement yesterday that it thought litigation over the managed investment scheme had the potential to provide compensation for investors.   There was also a potential compensation claim against Opes directors and ANZ over a number of transactions around the time of the stockbroker's collapse, in particular security taken by the bank that improved its position by $240 million at the expense of creditors.   The investigation concerned ANZ's knowledge of the depth of Opes' financial difficulties.   The in-principle settlement is conditional on the agreement of all parties, with a hurdle looming in the form of class actions under way.   Litigation funder IMF said last month that the settlement terms were unlikely to meet its acceptance threshold.   ASIC, meanwhile, will continue its criminal and civil investigation of the conduct of Opes directors, including co-founder Laurie Emeni, officers and third parties.   The watchdog said decisions on whether to proceed with these investigations would be made by May. 
