By a staff reporter, with AAP, Reuters National Australia Bank has cut its first half dividend by 25 per cent, and says it is focussed on building its Australian franchise, mulling Australian and international acquisitions, and committed to its struggling UK businesses. Australia's largest lender said was well positioned to ride out deteriorating market conditions, and also announced changes to its board, with Mark Joiner appointed executive director and former nabCapital chief John Cooper switched to the role of Executive Director UK. NAB said its top priority was maintaining a strong capital base amid the challenges of a domestic economic slowdown and global recession. 'As part of maintaining conservative setting, and reflecting the increasingly challenging external environment, dividends will be reduced by approximately 25 per cent for the 2009 year,' the bank said in a strategy update. The announcement makes NAB the second bank to cut its dividend, with ANZ Banking Group announcing in February it expects to cut its 2009 dividend by 25 per cent. Contrary to expectations, the NAB did not announce any job cuts, although the Melbourne-based bank said its institutional banking unit, nabCapital, would be restructured, with markets, treasury services and specialised finance businesses to be maintained as a separate global business, renamed Wholesale Banking. Corporate lending franchises would be merged with relevant regional business banks and non-franchise related assets would be exited, the bank said. Former Citigroup Mark Joiner was appointed executive director. Mr Joiner was previously Group Executive General Manager, Development and New Business. The change follows the departure of one-time CEO aspirant, Ahmed Fahour, who was appointed as head of the Australian Business Investment Partnership, dubbed 'Rudd Bank', earlier this year. As predicted, nabCapital chief John Hooper is no longer part of the executive committee, moved to the role of Executive Director UK to support UK chief executive Lynne Peacock. New chief executive Cameron Clyne said NAB remained committed to its UK businesses, Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks. 'The reality is that our position is proving to be resilient and our UK assets are performing better than peers on many measures. Over the last few years a good business has been created, but it is now operating in a very difficult market which will take some time to work through,' Mr Clyne said. 'It is absolutely not in the interest of shareholders to exit our UK position. We are committed to supporting this business and preserving our future options through the UK recovery.' NAB's British operations include 342 branches, principally in Scotland and Yorkshire, and 2.6 million customers in Britain. On acquisitions, NAB said it would consider acquisitions where they enhance its organic strategy in the areas of distribution and brands. 'Internationally, we would consider small acquisitions if they de-risk or create greater value in our existing positions, for example, deposit books or distribution infrastructure.' NAB said it had four main imperatives: maintaining the strength of its balance sheet; accelerating its productivity and quality agency, taking advantage of synergies across businesses and technology-led efficiencies; differentiating its culture and reputation; and focussing on its Australian customer franchises while maintaining the value and options for longer term growth internationally, and restructuring nabCapital. Mr Clyne said: 'The environment we are in is changing fast. The world is moving into a recessionary cycle at a speed that was not anticipated six months ago. There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery.' 'Some industry trust has been lost. How consumers will respond, as their confidence returns, is not yet clear. We are potentially in for a long period of deleveraging by households and companies. There is a wide range of possible outcomes for all our markets. Our strategy must be flexible enough to accommodate such a degree of uncertainty. 'Australia has the benefit of timely government and regulatory responses, and is relatively better positioned than many other markets.' NAB said the changing landscape is providing opportunities to acquire new customers and lift market share in Australian business banking. 'Particular areas of focus are specialisation of bankers and certain geographies where there is significant opportunity to build market share. We are also addressing our underweight position in the segment of customers with turnover less than $3 million per annum,' Mr Clyne said. Mr Clyne said he was comfortable NAB could extract 'significant value' from its Australian personal banking business, adding that there was significant opportunity to build the business into a true retailer. Areas of focus are the mass affluent and micro-business sectors, he said. For the Australian Wealth division, Mr Clyne said NAB would continue to focus on cross-selling insurance products through its banking franchise. 'There also remains significant upside in our investments and superannuation business. While our market share has declined in recent periods, I am less concerned by this as we have chosen to focus more on protecting margin,' he said. 'Asset management is also an area we intend to develop further.' Last month NAB said its costs were growing at the inflation rate, and underlying profit for the six months to March 31 would 'probably' be 20 per cent higher from the same period a year ago, before provisions of $4.041 billion. This would put the underlying interim profit for fiscal 2009 at around $4.849 billion before accounting for bad and doubtful debt charges. NAB also flagged $824 million in December quarter bad and doubtful debt charges and unaudited September quarter cash earnings of $1.1 billion. NAB shares firmed two cents, or 0.12 per cent, to close at $16.30 on Wednesday. NAB's 2009 term funding requirement was over 70 percent complete, the bank said.
