March 6 (Reuters) - The following financial services industry appointments were announced on Friday. To inform us of other job changes, e-mail moves@thomsonreuters.com.   DEUTSCHE BANK  Deutsche Bank said Masaya Okoshi and Sean George joined the bank as managing directors in global credit trading within the global markets division. The duo, both recruited from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, will be based in New York and trade corporate bonds and credit derivatives. ALVAREZ &amp; MARSAL Alvarez &amp; Marsal, a restructuring advisory firm, said PricewaterhouseCoopers' Art Barrios has joined as a senior director in its New York-based business consulting practice.   U.S. BANCORP  Minneapolis-based regional bank U.S. Bancorp said Marc Belton was named to its board of directors. Belton is EVP worldwide health, brand and business development at General Mills Inc.   GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC  The bank holding company's media sector banker Joseph Ravitch is leaving, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter. GRANT THORNTON UK LLP  The business and financial adviser has appointed Matt Dunham and Giles Newman as new partners within its Recovery and Reorganisation Division. Dunham joins Grant Thornton's Manchester office from BDO while Newman has been promoted from within the firm's Healthcare Team in London. GREENHILL &amp; CO., INC. The investment bank hired Ken Goldsbrough and Andrew Kramer as managing directors of its newly formed Financing Advisory &amp; Restructuring Group in London and New York, respectively.  Goldsbrough was formerly managing director and head of Media, Communications &amp; Entertainment at GE Capital in London, while Kramer has been head of Restructuring for the Americas at UBS.   ACE LTD  The insurer's European Group appointed Shaun Edwards as a client relationship manager for its Major Risks business. Prior to joining ACE, Edwards was head of client management at Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty and client executive director at Willis Group Holdings. (Compiled by Joe Giannone in New York and R. Manikandan in Bangalore, additional reporting by Caroline Humer) 
