 Tara Brautigam, THE CANADIAN PRESS  ST. JOHN'S, N.L. - The Bank of Montreal (TSX:BMO) turned in a 12 per cent decline in first-quarter profit but its chief executive says this doesn't express its underlying health, and the current financial turmoil 'could represent a once-in-a-decade growth opportunity.'  However, Bill Downe added Tuesday that BMO is in no hurry to make acquisitions as it hopes for an economic upturn in Canada later this year but expects no more than a hesitant recovery in the United States, perhaps starting around year-end.  The bank reported Tuesday it earned $225 million in the quarter ended Jan. 31, down from $255 million a year earlier. The latest quarter included $359 million in after-tax charges caused by woes in the capital markets.  'Clearly the solid performance of our core businesses is not reflected in the Q1 net income number as reported,' Downe told a conference call after the earnings release and BMO's annual meeting.  'Our core businesses are performing very well in today's recessionary economic environment,' he stressed. 'In particular, the Canadian retail business continues to make steady quarter-over-quarter progress.'  Canadian personal banking loans were up 21 per cent from a year earlier and commercial banking loan growth was six per cent, while deposits increased three per cent and credit-card and retail-payment revenues swelled 24 per cent. Overall, Canadian personal and commercial banking had net income of $325 million, up 12 per cent from a year earlier.  BMO Capital Markets earned $179 million, up from a $29-million loss. The division benefited from higher trading revenue, commercial banking and equity underwriting, but was pulled back by the $359 million of unrealized losses on credit valuation adjustments, troubles at Apex Trust, a credit-default protection vehicle, and writedowns of asset-backed commercial paper.  Meanwhile, BMO's Chicago-based Harris Bank provided a bare $27 million in earnings from personal and commercial banking amid 'elevated' loan losses and market volatility. However, there was deposit growth and 'we're outperforming our U.S. peers and we continue to view the current environment as a great opportunity for Harris ... to expand its customer base,' Downe said.  'We'll be opportunistic,' he added. 'We're looking for good business at good price, and there's no rush to make significant acquisitions in this weak economic environment.'  BMO made a $375-million acquisition in Canada during the first quarter, taking over the Canadian life insurance business of troubled American International Group, or AIG, which earlier this week reported the biggest quarterly loss in U.S. history.  Overall provisions for bad debts roughly doubled to $428 million - $111 million in Canada and $317 million in the United States.  Like the other Canadian banks, BMO maintained its dividend, although the quarterly payment of 70 cents per share provides a dizzying yield of 10.4 per cent at Tuesday afternoon's share price of $26.83, off 16 cents on the TSX session and down from $52 last spring.  Preserving the payout - amid rising anxiety about a cut - is appropriate, Downe said, 'given our strong capital position, core earnings power and the importance that our shareholders attach to the dividend.'  He added that 'we'll be managing levels of capital utilization and expenses aggressively.'  BMO boasted a solid Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.2 per cent after raising $1.6 billion during the quarter, which 'provides a strong measure of confidence in the bank's resilience, while also positioning us to take advantage of any opportunities for growth arising in the current environment,' Downe told the conference call.  Earlier, he observed in a speech to shareholders that 'global commodity prices have moved from exuberance to the exact opposite; the manufacturing sector is struggling with overcapacity and these are issues on a global scale.'  'While not completely immune from the global financial dislocation, we have essentially no exposure to the U.S. subprime housing market, and our U.S. subsidiary stands out for the strength of its brand.'  Earnings per share declined to 39 cents from 47 cents, but excluding one-time charges BMO said it earned $1.09 per share, well ahead of the Thomson Reuters analyst consensus expectation of 96 cents per share.  'Collectively and individually, our core businesses are performing well or at least holding their own despite difficult markets,' Downe told the conference call.  'We expect the (Canadian) economy to turn up later this year,' he said, but BMO forecasts the U.S. economy will continue to contract in 2009 with no rapid recovery.  'Just as the economy of the United States has led the world into this correction, the size and flexibility of its economy will set the pace for recovery in the rest of the world.'  Canada's six biggest banks - Royal, TD Bank, Scotiabank, CIBC, Bank of Montreal and National Bank - earned a total of nearly $3.1 billion for the quarter, up from $2.1 billion a year ago, thanks to a turnaround at CIBC to earnings of $147 million compared with a year-earlier loss of almost $1.5 billion.  In step with the Bank of Canada, which lowered its key overnight rate half a point to 0.5 per cent Tuesday, BMO and the other banks cut their prime lending rate to 2.5 per cent.  'The tricky thing is when interest rates get closer and closer to zero, you start to get a little bit of (margin) compression,' Downe noted at the annual meeting, 'but we don't expect it will be adverse to the banking industry.'
