Saba Software, Inc. SABA, the premier people management software and services provider, today announced that Saba OnDemand now serves more than three million users globally. Saba OnDemand continues to demonstrate superior scalability and today counts 15 global deployments with more than 50,000 users, seven of which have more than 100,000 users.   The continued growth of Saba OnDemand reflects how organizations of all sizes are looking at ways to deploy enterprise-wide people processes and deliver immediate business value while simultaneously reducing up-front investment and lifecycle costs, said Ronno Lee, vice president OnDemand Strategy and Operations for Saba. With Saba OnDemand, customers benefit from a highly secure and compliant infrastructure, as well as industry-leading best-practices in people management to increase business performance and ROI.   Saba maintains an unflagging commitment to delivering OnDemand operational excellence. By providing global 24x7x365 monitoring and support, comprehensive Saba application management services and scalable OnDemand solutions from state-of-the art data centers in North America, APAC and EMEA, Saba OnDemand has the capabilities to meet or exceed the requirements from the most demanding customers. Saba OnDemand is also capable of delivering SAS70 Type II, FISMA and DITSCAP/DIACAP compliant OnDemand services to meet the stringent security standards required by many Federal agencies and commercial customers. 'Saba Learning OnDemand impressed us with its ease of use and scalability as well as Saba's ability to offer best-practices through its track record in the market,' said Maria Steel, manager organizational capability for Sydney Water"Australias largest water utility. 'In utilizing the on demand solution offered by Saba, we have an application that can grow with our organization as well as enable us to remain focused on optimizing our learning and performance initiatives that play a critical role in engaging and aligning our people.' Customers that select Saba OnDemand benefit from reduced overhead costs associated with an implementation project"including IT resources, hardware and software maintenance. Automatic upgrades provide Saba OnDemand customers with ongoing access to new functionality, reducing the time needed for upgrade planning. Moreover, through Sabas proven track record of serving enterprise customers across multiple industries, it is able to deliver best-practices natively within its people management solutions, providing all of Sabas OnDemand customers with more effective business processes.   About Saba  Founded in 1997, Saba SABA is the premier global provider of strategic human capital management (HCM) software and services. Sabas people management solutions are used by more than 1,300 organizations and over 17 million end users worldwide. Sabas solutions increase organizational performance by aligning workforce goals with organizational strategy; developing, managing and rewarding their people; and improving collaboration.   Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support.   Saba customers include Alcatel-Lucent; Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ; BMW; Caterpillar; CEMEX; Cisco Systems; Daimler; Dell; Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu; EDS, an HP company; EMC Corporation; FedEx Office; Insurance Australia Group; Kaiser Permanente; Lockheed Martin; Medtronic; National Australia Bank; Novartis; Petrobras; Procter &amp; Gamble; Renault; Royal Bank of Scotland; Scotiabank; Singapore Ministry of Finance; Sprint; Standard Chartered Bank; Stanford University; Swedbank; Tata Consultancy Services; Wyndham International; Weyerhaeuser; Underwriters Laboratories; and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health &amp; Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service, and U.S. Navy.   Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791.   SABA, the Saba logo, Centra and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Saba Software, Inc.Alissa Vasilevskis, +1-650-581-2615 
