MACQUARIE GROUP  Macquarie Group named Stanley Hartt chairman of Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd, a newly created full-time role as the Australian bank expands in Canada. Hartt has been chairman of Citigroup Global Markets Canada Inc. and previously served as federal deputy minister of finance and chief of staff in the office of the prime minister.  STIFEL FINANCIAL  Stifel Nicolaius hired Paul Coffee to lead its Rocky Mountain region brokerage business. Coffee joined after 34 years at AG Edwards and Wachovia Securities.  BROOKLINE BANCORP  Brookline Bancorp named Paul Perrault its chief executive, succeeding Richard Chapman, who is retiring after 35 years. Perrault was to have been CEO Soveriegn Bancorp, but just weeks after he started, the bank was acquired by controling shareholder Banco Santander. Previously Perrault spent 18 years as CEO of Vermont's Chittenden Corp.  ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN  Senior U.S. broadlines retail research analyst Uta Werner told clients she was leaving brokerage unit Sanford C. Bernstein on Thursday.  SAGENT ADVISORS  Merger advisory firm Sagent Advisors said chairman and co-CEO Joel Cohen, 71, would retire at the end of March. Company co-founder Hal Ritch will remain president and CEO.  QUADRANGLE GROUP  Quadrangle Group said Amanda Siegel has been promoted to principal. Alex Hocherman, Sebastien Briens and Mark Brennan were promoted to vice president. All four work within Quadrangle Capital Partners, the firm's media and communications-focused private equity business.   ALADDIN CAPITAL  Aladdin Capital Holdings LLC appointed loan market veteran William Fish as a senior managing director of its global loan group in Stamford, Connecticut. He previously was with Dresdner Kleinwort as head of global loans and transaction services. Prior to that, he was a 15-year veteran of Citigroup, holding a series of senior positions in loan syndications.  NEWOAK CAPITAL  NewOak Capital named Janet Christensen as a managing director of marketing to institutional clients such as private equity and financial institutions in New York and London. Christensen co-founded Tegris, a privately held firm specializing in M&amp;A and asset management and previously was chief of staff to Blackstone Group CEO Stephen Schwarzman.   HSBC  HSBC has appointed John Coverdale as global co-head of commercial banking in Asia Pacific and the Middle East. Alan Keir remains global co-head of commercial banking in Europe.  ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND  Ellen Alemany, CEO of Citizens Financial Group and RBS Americas, has been named chairman of the board at Citizens Financial Group. Alemany joined RBS Americas in June 2007 and became chief executive of Citizens Financial Group in March 2008.  XL CAPITAL LTD  The insurance provider said Brian O'Hara, the chairman of its board and a former president and CEO, and John Thornton, a member of its board since 1988, have decided not to stand for re-election at the annual meeting on April 24.  HERALD NATIONAL BANK  The New York-based full-service commercial bank appointed Henry Auffarth and Roger Bedore to the positions of senior vice president, senior managing director and senior vice president, managing director, respectively.   Prior to joining Herald National, Auffarth had spent seven years as the senior vice president of the Commercial Markets Group for Citibank. Meanwhile, Bedore most recently was a group director and SVP at Signature Bank.  PENSION PROTECTION FUND (PPF)  The fund appointed Ian McKinlay as its new chief investment officer to oversee its investment portfolio, which is currently worth more than 3 billion pounds.  McKinlay joins PPF from PricewaterhouseCoopers, where he was the head of its investment consulting practice, providing advice to corporate bodies on how to manage pension scheme risk.  HERMES  The asset manager appointed Jonathan Pines as director of global emerging markets, equities. Pines joins Hermes from RAB Capital, where he was joint manager of the Global Emerging Markets Fund.  CITY INDEX GROUP  The provider of retail trading services appointed Simon Curtis as global head of compliance and legal. Curtis, who will be based in London, will be responsible for the legal and compliance functions across City Index and FX Solutions businesses in Europe, the United States and Asia.  Curtis joins City Index from Citigroup Corporate and Investment Banking, where he was the director and head of fixed income, currency and commodities compliance since 2005. 
