 TSYS, one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, has appointed Amit Sethi, a veteran of the global payments industry, as Managing Director of TSYS India and South Asia. He will be based in New Delhi and will be responsible for all business development and outsourcing activities in the region.  During his 25-year career in the payments industry, Mr. Sethi has held several executive positions with companies such as Visa International, KPMG, Bank of America, HSBC, Oracle Corporation and iGate. Most recently, he was Global Sales Head of Financial Services and Service Industries for Sutherland Global Services, where he was responsible for leading a global sales team for selling Business Process Outsourcing and Call-Center services delivered out of centers in five countries, including India, the Philippines, the United States, Canada and Mexico.  'India is a bastion of growth, and its economic rise, along with all that follows, foreshadows its role as a major economic player in the years to come. Growing affluence, consumer sophistication and a booming tourist industry build a case for our success with credit and debit cards in this market,' said Gaylon Jowers Jr., president of TSYS International. 'The Indian market is vital to the overall growth of TSYS, and we have sharpened our focus to deliver a suite of innovative payment products and services that meet the needs of this market. Mr. Sethi brings valuable experience in this region, and understands the importance of continuously expanding our presence there.'  TSYS' existing footprint includes some of the highest ranked banks in India and in 2006 TSYS successfully achieved one of the largest credit conversions outside of the U.S. for India's second largest bank and largest private sector bank. TSYS has offices in Mumbai and New Delhi, and a truly global presence represented by 19 offices and more than 8,000 employees.  India is the second fastest growing market for financial cards in the Asia-Pacific region. The country's credit card base, pegged at 27 million in 2007, is growing at an annual rate of 30 to 35 percent, according to Euromonitor.  Mr. Sethi earned a bachelor's degree in commerce from University of Delhi and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Rochester, New York. He is also a Chartered Accountant.  About TSYS  TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information, contact news@tsys.com or log on to www.tsys.com. TSYS routinely posts all important information on its website.  Contacts  Shawn Roberts  TSYS Investor Relations  +1.706.644.6081  Cyle Mims  TSYS Media Relations  
