We are up .70 cents in A/H. Here it looks like some positive news. IMO JPMorgan moves to curb foreclosures By Francesco Guerrera in New York Published: January 17 2009 00:02   Last updated: January 17 2009 00:02 JPMorgan Chase on Friday announced plans to change the terms of $1,100bn-worth of mortgages in an effort to help hundreds of thousands of people stay in their homes. JPMorgans move to modify all the loans it services is an extension of a November plan by the bank  one of the biggest US lenders to homeowners  to modify $70bn in mortgages it directly owned. EDITORS CHOICE Editorial Comment: Saving the banks - Jan-16 Lex: Bursting banks - Jan-16 Citi keeps its pledge but in a sea of red - Jan-16 Merrills loss puts BofAs federal aid into context - Jan-16 In depth: US banks - Jan-14 Short View: Frightening financials - Jan-16 The programme, which will involve reductions in interest rates or principal repayments and other loan modifications, comes amid controversy over a proposed law that would allow judges to change the terms of mortgages to avoid foreclosures. Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan chief executive, has criticised the plans that would let bankruptcy judges cut mortgage rates for borrowers who are at risk of defaulting. Citigroup is a surprise backer of the new measures, known as cramdowns, but JPMorgan and other banks, argue that it would hit the financial sector, slash consumer lending and increase bankruptcy. The banking industrys efforts have been focused on their own loan modifications programmes in order to stave off government intervention. Modifying loans and freezing foreclosures helps banks because receiving monthly payments  albeit at a reduced rate  is preferable to repossessing hundreds of thousands of depreciating homes. The new programme by JPMorgan could be tricky as the mortgages are held by investors such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the finance groups that were nationalised last year, banks and fund managers. However, Chase, the groups retail bank, said that, after reviewing legal documents and discussing the issue with investors, it believed it would be allowed to modify the mortgages. There is a sense of urgency here because the sooner we modify the loans, the fewer people will wind up losing their homes, Charles Scharf, chief executive of JPMorgans retail unit, told the Financial Times. He said that about two-thirds of the $1,100bn mortgages were held by Fannie or Freddie with the rest owned by other investors. Since launching its plan in November, Chase has prevented 330,000 foreclosures. Foreclosure on a further $22bn-worth of mortgages, held by more than 80,000 homeowners had been delayed in order to modify the loans, the company said. Under the original programme, Chase said it would freeze foreclosures by up to three months. Other banks, such as Citigroup, have launched similar loan modification programmes. Late last year, Bank of America said it would modify troubled mortgages for almost 400,000 borrowers with home loans from Countrywide, the mortgage lender it acquired in 2008. The decision was part of a deal with several state attorneys-general to resolve claims against Countrywide.
