Work is due to officially start tomorrow on the new Armley Leisure Centre in Leeds. A 'turning of the sod' ceremony will herald the start of construction on the Carr Croft site to transform the existing Armley Leisure Centre into a multi-million-pound attraction. The historic joint 33m project, which will also see a new centre created in Morley, is being overseen by Leeds City Council through the Local Education Partnership with support from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Leeds City Council executive member for Leisure Coun John Procter said: 'This is a really exciting day for everyone involved in the Armley Leisure Centre project. We have all been looking forward to the first spade going into the ground and work properly starting on creating these fantastic new facilities. 'Everyone will now be able to see for themselves as the new centre grows and takes shape over the next two years. 'It is going to be a superb facility for everyone in the community and beyond to make use of, so we are all excited that this day has come.' Contractor Interserve has completed preparatory work so construction can begin with the first phase taking place on the existing sports field next to the centre itself. The new centre will feature a main 25 metre swimming pool and a 10 metre learner pool. There will also be a hydrotherapy pool, 100-station Bodyline gym, four-court sports hall, two-court sports hall, dance studio and a cafe. Armley Leisure Centre is to remain open during the initial phase of construction before closing in summer 2009 with the new centre due to open by summer 2010. The Local Education Partnership, which assists in providing education and leisure projects in Leeds, is made up of Leeds City Council, the national Building Schools for the Future investment programme and private sector companies " Interserve, Barclays Private Equity and Cambridge Education. Morley Leisure Centre has closed to make way for its new multi-million-pound replacement on the site of the current centre on Scatcherd Park. The new centre will include a 25m main swimming pool, 10m learner pool and a 150-station Bodyline gym. People will have use of a six-court sports hall, four-court sports hall, a multi-activity hall, dance studio and bar/cafe. Full disabled access has been built into the design of the scheme, including changing rooms and toilets. It is hoped the new centre at Morley will be ready by summer 2010. Leeds Council was invited by the Government to apply for the Private Finance Initiative (PFI) credits, to replace the existing outdated centres, more than two years ago. It is hoped the new centres will form 'community sports hubs' working with schools, the primary care trust, social services, the extended schools' programme and the local communities to boost the health and well-being of people in surrounding areas. The start of work on the buildings comes as Leeds Council launches a series of workshops as part of its consultation on the future of its 24 leisure centres. People across the city are being asked what they think about the centres and how they could be improved. Workshops will be at 4pm and 6.30pm at Middleton Leisure Centre today. Further meetings take place over the coming days at East Leeds Leisure Centre, Fearnville Leisure Centre, Kippax Leisure Centre and Garforth Squash and Leisure Club and, next week, at South Leeds Leisure Centre. For full details and to book visit www.leeds.gov.uk/sportsurvey or call 0113 224 3184.
