CHICAGO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Saba (NASDAQ: SABA), the premier people management software and services provider, today announced the latest release of its unified people management platform, Saba Enterprise 5.4 SP3. Available now, this new release includes innovations across talent, learning and performance that include: groundbreaking internal recruiting capabilities, a new module -- Saba Workforce Planning -- and enhancements to the Saba Content Integration Framework, as well as new collaboration and organizational charting capabilities. 'Saba continues to lead the way in delivering an innovative, unified people management platform that can help organizations develop and manage their people and improve business performance,' said Bobby Yazdani, chairman and CEO of Saba. 'This release streamlines the entire talent lifecycle -- with advances in workforce planning, training, measurement and career development -- to provide a more consistent, disciplined approach to people management that drives organizational success.' 'Organizations recognize that in order to realize the benefits of integrated talent management, they must adopt technology that can help them unify formal and informal talent, learning and performance processes across their organization,' said Leighanne Levansaler, director of talent management research, Bersin &amp;amp; Associates. 'By implementing a unified platform solution, organizations have better information available about their people across the extended enterprise and can make more informed decisions to improve productivity as well create a more meaningful view of their current and future workforce requirements.' Saba Enterprise is a comprehensive, unified people management platform designed to align learning, performance and talent management processes to organizational goals. With this release, Saba continues to advance the value of unified people management processes by enabling organizations to more effectively manage their internal talent pipeline, enhance organizational agility through a new approach to workforce planning, and dramatically increase learning and development capabilities through a real-time plug-and-play content integration framework. Saba Enterprise 5.4 SP3 is available now. Saba solutions can be deployed either OnDemand or on premise. For more information, please visit www.saba.com/products.About SabaFounded in 1997, Saba (NASDAQ: SABA) is the premier global provider of strategic Human Capital Management (HCM) software and services. Saba's people management solutions are used by more than 1,300 organizations and over 17 million end-users worldwide. Saba's solutions increase organizational performance by aligning workforce goals with organizational strategy; developing, managing, and rewarding their people; and improving collaboration.Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support.Saba customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, Daimler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC Corporation, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health &amp;amp; Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service, and U.S. Navy.Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791.SABA, the Saba logo, Centra, and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
