Press release distributed in partnership with ... HRchitect, the leader in HR systems strategic consulting and the premier Human Capital Management (HCM) and Talent Management systems consulting firm, recently announced they will present a new series of webinars entitled,  Frisco, TX (PRWEB) October 31, 2008 -- HRchitect, the leader in HR systems strategic consulting and the premier Human Capital Management (HCM) and Talent Management systems consulting firm, recently announced they will present a new series of webinars entitled,  Each Beauty Pageant will focus on a different category of HR technology such as Talent Management Systems, Talent Acquisition Systems, and Human Resource Information Systems and will feature six contestants. The contestants are all top vendors in each specific category. First up are Talent Acquisition Systems and Talent Management Systems, both being held in November and will feature such vendors as ADP-VirtualEdge, Authoria, Cornerstone OnDemand, iCIMS, MrTed, Salary.com, Softscape, and others.  , commented Matt Lafata, Vice-President of Sales &amp;amp; Marketing for HRchitect and the moderator for the series.  During the webinars, a representative from each participating vendor will present on their own company on a wide range of topics including an overview of the company, quick product demo, new product initiatives and others. The winner, crowned at the end of each webinar, will be voted on by attendees. , stated Rick Fletcher, President of HRchitect.  These 90-minute webinars will be held over the course of the next five months, although each topic will be presented only once. The schedule for the Beauty Pageant series is as follows: November 14  11am CST  TAS November 21  11am CST  TMS December 12  11am CST  HRIS December 19  11am CST  LMS January 9  11am CST  Mid-market ATS January 16  11am CST  Onboarding January 23  11am CST  EPM February 6  11am CST  Mid-market HRIS February 13  11am CST  T&amp;amp;A February 20  11am CST  Workforce Planning March 13  11am CST  Compensation Management March 20  11am CST  Succession Planning To register, visit HRchitects website at HRchitect.com. About HRchitect HRchitect is the leader in HR systems strategic consulting. As the premier Human Capital Management (HCM) and Talent Management Systems consulting firm, our services include the selection, implementation, and integration of Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS), Talent Management Suites (TMS), Performance Management, Succession Management, Compensation Management, Learning Management, Competency Management, Talent Acquisition Systems, and Time &amp;amp; Attendance software. HRchitect has participated in the successful evaluation and implementation of HR technology systems for leading high-tech, high-growth leaders such as Perot Systems, WebMD, and Symantec; manufacturing companies such as 3M, Texas Instruments, and Raytheon; retail leaders including Best Buy, Dominos Pizza, PepsiAmericas, J.C. Penney, and Target; healthcare/bio-tech organizations such as Alcon Labs, The Mayo Clinic, and Tenet Healthcare; financial organizations including: Barclays Global Investors, Countrywide Financial, and VISA; energy leaders such as Baker Hughes, ConocoPhillips, and Lyondell Chemical; transportation leaders such as APL, FedEx, and Southwest Airlines; telecommunication leaders AT&amp;amp;T, Sprint, and Verizon; as well as leading hospitality companies such as Hyatt, Marriott, and Starwood. Based in Dallas with consultants nationwide, HRchitect has completed over 500 successful client engagements over the past eleven years. HRchitects client list consists of companies of all sizes from all industries and includes 1 in 5 companies on the Fortune 100 list. To find out how HRchitects HR software expertise can benefit your company, visit our website at www.HRchitect.com or call 214-619-0888. This press release was distributed through eMediawire by Human Resources Marketer (HR Marketer: www.HRmarketer.com) on behalf of the company listed above. # # # 
