DISA provides real-time information technology and communications support to the president, vice president, secretary of defense, the military services, and all combatant commands. Supporting these demands requires adaptable software development solutions for a highly distributed DISA development team. Working with Carahsoft Technology Corp., the industry's leading government IT solutions provider and CollabNet reseller, DISA selected CollabNet SourceForge Enterprise as the Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) framework to securely access and manage the source code, issues, releases, documents, discussion forums, wikis, reports, and other artifacts related to their projects. Additionally, CollabNet CUBiT was selected as the virtual private cloud management solution for teams to access build and test environments on-demand, from a pool of internally managed, secure computing resources. CollabNet delivers this strategic software development framework as a DISA Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solution for low cost and ease of deployment. After a thorough review of competitive products, DISA chose to implement CollabNet SourceForge Enterprise and CollabNet CUBiT because of the flexibility and the open platform that ensures forward compatibility as software development methodologies advance. Both products easily integrate with existing CollabNet installations throughout the Defense Department and are available as on-site and SaaS deployments, which are key to providing scalability while reducing costs. 'DISA's critical role in the Department of Defense requires a unique solution that enables development teams to securely build software from anywhere in the world,' said Tony de la Lama, CollabNet vice president of worldwide marketing and corporate strategy. 'CollabNet is delighted to be selected as a partner that is at the forefront of this open source movement within DISA to shape the software development processes within the Department of Defense.' 'Carahsoft and its vendor partners have been supporting the mission-critical IT needs of DISA for many years, and we are pleased to team with CollabNet to provide DISA with a proven solution for collaborative software development,' said Craig P. Abod, Carahsoft president. About CollabNet (www.collab.net) With 1.5 million users, CollabNet leads the software industry towards a new era of collaborative software development. By connecting remote teams and integrating disparate development tools, the CollabNet platform simplifies distributed development, reduces infrastructure costs by more than 50 percent, and eliminates silos between isolated teams to speed innovation by 20 percent and more. CollabNet is the company behind Subversion, the world's best version control and Software Configuration Management solution for distributed teams. More than 600 industry leading companies use CollabNet's solutions today, including Reuters, Philips Medical Systems, Capgemini, and Barclays Global Investors among others. About Carahsoft (www.carahsoft.com) Carahsoft Technology Corp. is the trusted Government IT solutions provider, combining technological expertise with a thorough understanding of the government procurement process to help federal, state and local government agencies select and implement the best solution at the best possible value. As a top-ranked GSA Schedule Contract holder, Carahsoft is the largest government partner and serves as the master government aggregator for many of its best-of-breed vendors. The company's dedicated Solutions Divisions support proactive sales, marketing and delivery of Symantec, Storage Solutions, VMware, Adobe, Open Source, HR, HP Software, Intelligence, and SAP. Carahsoft is consistently recognized by its partners as a top revenue producer and is listed among the industry's fastest growing firms by VARBusiness, CRN, Inc., Washington Technology, and the Washington Business Journal. In 2008, Carahsoft debuted at #16 on the Inc.500 list of fastest growing privately held companies, and was recognized as the Government VAR State and Local Solution Provider of the Year Award and the VAR Business Top Revenue Generator Award. 
