  The forgotten state    Peter Hanlon   February 23, 2008      THE Tasmanian Government's invitation to mainlanders to open their hearts, minds and wallets to the charms of Australia's island state features a slogan that many in its disenfranchised football community can't help but sneer at.  "Explore the possibilities."  Yeah, right, they mutter, if only they had the balls.  Since AFL Commission chairman Mike Fitzpatrick pulled the hand grenade's pin in these pages seven days ago, revealing the AFL's intent to become an 18-team competition by 2015, footy folk have been aquiver at the prospect of clubs sprouting on the Gold Coast and in the virgin market of Sydney's west.  In Tassie, the reaction has ranged from ho-hum to hell's fury, with all on the spectrum sharing at least one conviction: they live in football's forgotten state.  The battle lines between the game's fans and the administrators who control the thing they love have never been more clearly outlined than in the language used this week. On the one hand: "utter contempt", "absolute disgrace", "patronised", "horribly complacent", "insulting", "going backwards". On the other: "growth agenda", "growth markets", "growth rate", "detailed market assessment", "appetite", "consumption", and the big one, "prioritised".  The colours nailed to the mast in this stoush are as contrasting as the primrose and magenta on the state's green guernsey. Which is nothing new; Tasmania has long fancied its chances of competing with the best, a belief emboldened when it defeated Western Australia and South Australia in a carnival held to mark football's centenary in 1958.  Since South Melbourne's move to Sydney in 1982 began the morphing of VFL into AFL, Tasmanians have pinched, poked and scragged administrations like the most niggardly of taggers. And been received with about as much warmth.  "I always say very strongly, the AFL has no right to call itself a truly national competition until it has a team from every state," Saul Eslake said this week, commenting not as the chief economist of the ANZ bank, rather as a Tasmanian-reared footy fan with an abiding passion for both game and state. "I think the AFL continues to treat Tasmania with utter contempt, and this is just another example of it."  Eslake's views are relevant, as it is the "economic imperative" that forms a large plank of the league's case against. Says the AFL's broadcasting and commercial operations manager, Gillon McLachlan: "It takes a lot to maintain an AFL club - $30 million turnovers (annually), $4-5 million of corporate support. (And) what are the requirements going to be in 2020 and 2030?     "That's where you look at it - on an absolute scale and the growth profile of the markets. When you look at doing that, the Gold Coast and western Sydney were prioritised above Tasmania."  Tim Lane, broadcaster, Age columnist and ardent pusher of his native state's claims, bats this argument back with a question: what about Port Adelaide? "Port exists in a state of 1.5 million people, and the ratio of access to the footy public is probably two-to- one the Crows' way - and people in South Australia reckon you're being generous to Port in saying that.  "So Port is dealing with the same sort of population carve-up as Tassie (population 475,000). If the sums of money required by football clubs are going to grow as greatly as we're told, what happens to Port Adelaide? Are they going to cease to exist?"  Another argument against is a lack of major corporations based in Tasmania with the ability to meet an AFL club's sponsorship demands; Eslake appreciates this, but thinks it no greater hurdle than that originally faced by Sydney, or for that matter premier Geelong. Besides, why do sponsors in a competition with national reach need to be regionalised?  Bob Cheek, a Tasmanian football goliath and former state opposition leader, was part of a group headed by businessman Michael Kent that undertook a feasibility study into establishing a team in the mid-1990s. "What we found when we did the work then was the sponsors can come from anywhere in Australia because they're getting coverage on TV right around the country," Cheek said. "It doesn't matter where the team's based - it could be on Flinders Island or King Island."  Cheek says Carlton and United Breweries was committed to the cause, and Kent recalls thinking they were almost over the line as delegations of AFL directors, including Ross Oakley and Wayne Jackson, visited the site of a proposed stadium at the showgrounds in Glenorchy. "We were pests," says Cheek; he still has the colour postcards of the new stadium they had printed and sent to AFL headquarters.  Kent, now president of the Tasmanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, says they often wondered aloud then just how long Victoria could support so many teams. "Then the (federal) government of the day put their money in the north of the state (to redevelop what is now Launceston's Aurora Stadium), and we eventually had to drop the idea and think more and more of a relocation."  That ground's present situation (it will host four Hawthorn games in 2008) raises an age-old problem that has not helped Tasmania's cause  the north-south divide. Local football has stagnated on the back of it, and many feel that even if a team did materialise, playing games in Launceston would alienate the south, with Hobart's Bellerive Oval well short on capacity.     While Lane disagrees, saying it would be the most unifying thing to happen in Tasmania's history  "There's nothing like football to bring people together"  the Hawthorn deal, worth $16.5 million over five years, is another matter.  Cheek describes it as "one of the most short-sighted decisions any Tasmanian premier has ever made", reckoning Paul Lennon had a round of golf with Hawks president Jeff Kennett "and got completely sucked in". Can you imagine, he asks, South Australia supporting a team from Victoria?  "Football in Tasmania's going backwards, and we're putting money into Hawthorn when all they do is come across, sell their memberships, sell their merchandise  they've got kids around in Hawthorn guernseys  how does that help Tasmanian football in the long term?  "They should be banging on the AFL's door saying, 'We've got to have a team down here. You can't continue to treat us like a backyard of Melbourne'."  Eslake says the Hawthorn deal exposes another AFL inconsistency: a preparedness to nurture the game's development in Sydney and Brisbane, but not a traditional heartland such as Tassie. "The AFL expects the Tasmanian Government to put Tasmanian taxpayers' money into having Hawthorn  which I'll grant you does have a certain following in Tasmania  play matches against clubs like Port Adelaide and Fremantle, which Tasmanians couldn't give a stuff about."  As for how many members a team would attract, Eslake believes up to 90% of the population "are keenly interested in football", more than in Geelong's catchment zone. Beyond Bass Strait, Taswegians are everywhere; an online petition headed "Tasmania needs its own AFL team" features signatories from British Columbia, Michigan, North Yorkshire and every Australian state.  Says Cheek: "My son lives in Kuala Lumpur, and we were great Fitzroy supporters. He wouldn't make the transition (to Brisbane Lions), and he keeps ringing me saying, 'What are you doing about that team in the AFL? For Christ's sake, get one, will you, so I can barrack for somebody!' "  McLachlan concedes there is a historic pull, and says the league's current direction does not mean Tasmania will never have a licence. Yet many locals have the punch-drunk air of the disenfranchised; the Hobart Mercury mounted a campaign for a team at the time of the 1990s study, yet this week wrote little of the latest developments, and hardly carried a reader's letter on the subject.  One observer likened the island to a pool ball the AFL has nudged over the pocket, and is happy to leave there while it goes to work potting greater challenges, safe in the knowledge it will always be there to come back to. Lane thinks this "a horribly complacent view to take  we're talking about a state here".  Cheek is worried about apathy and a morbid acceptance of fate, yet Kent reckons the diehards are keeping the faith, and one day it will happen. "Whether we're all alive to see it is another story."  Eslake, who was born in England but educated in Burnie and Hobart, has supported Essendon since 1968, but would change tomorrow if a true national competition arrived. "It would be one of my proudest moments  to go and see a Tasmanian team running onto the MCG. I don't believe in my heart of hearts I will ever see it happen  but I don't mind being wrong."   http://www.realfooty.com.au/news/new...page=fullpage# 
