      Yes Annoyed No  Considering this team's gaping holes in defense and goaltending, I'm a bit surprised GMGM didn't or couldn't make any deals.  Last year he made several good deadline deals when we only had a faint hope of making the playoffs, but now that the Caps have a legitimate shot at making a deep run, he stands pat.  That's just a curious to me.  I don't know if I'm more annoyed at GMGM's inability to pull off a deal or the general lack of trades caused by the 2005 CBA.  This problem has been building for a few years as more and more teams get up close to the cap and have no rooms to make any big deals.  I've heard talk about modifying the next CBA to at least partially remedy the problem, but that doesn't help now.  While I'm not "angry" that the Caps didn't make a deal yesterday, it did kind of bring my expectations of this year's team back to reality.  GMGM's news conference yesterday reinforced in me his mantra about building for the future, meaning that the future is not now I'm probably inferring too much here, but its seems to me that even GMGM is hedging his bets because he doesn't think this team is "The One" to make it all of the way.  AS for how far the Caps make it into the playoffs, I've thought for some time that this squad is a one-and-done team.  There play is too inconsistent to make it past the first round, especially if their opponent is a hot team that had to sprint to make it into the playoffs.  Sometimes it been the defense, sometimes the goalkeeping, and to lesser extent even the offense has occasionally let the team down.  When all three of those components fail, the result is a blowout like we've seen to many times this past year, and especially the last several games.  The one thing that makes me believe the caps will exit quickly from this year's playoffs is that they've lost their home ice advantage.  Earlier this year they were seemingly invincible at home; now they are getting blown out with increasing regularity at the VC.  Taking advantage of home ice is urgent during the playoffs.  I can see the Caps splitting their first two first round playoff games at home, losing both away games, coming back dispirited and behind 3-1, and losing their final playoff game at home.  Boy, wouldnt that be a ball-buster!  Whew, I didnt realize I had such a need to vent.  I think it's a seasons worth of pent-up frustration more than anything that did or didnt happen on the trade deadline.  Like so many Caps' teams in the past, this team seems to be oh-so-close only to be unable to graps the silver ring at the end.  Hopefully, I am wrong and someone will gleefully wag this post in my face after the Caps make a deep run into the playoffs or, say it aint so, they win the Cup.                      
