LONDON, Oct 7 (Reuters) - European stocks drifted lower on Tuesday as mounting concerns about the health of the financial sector hit banks, with shares in Royal Bank of Scotland (News/Aktienkurs) and  (News/Aktienkurs) plunging about 40 percent. The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares ended 0.14 percent lower at 1,003.51 points after witnessing its worst one-day percentage fall on record on Monday. It is down about 33 percent so far this year. Banking stocks were the biggest weighted sectoral losers, with Royal Bank of Scotland and  hit by talk that the British government was mulling a possible bank recapitalisation plan with the country's lenders. Commerzbank fell 14 percent, Barclays shed 9 percent and Lloyds TSB slipped 13 percent. 'Banks need measures to boost their capital, and without real measures from the authorities, it's not a few takeovers or isolated rescues that will help stop the crisis,' said Sebastien Barthelemi, analyst at Louis Capital Markets in Paris. 'We need a strong move by governments. Each country has been reacting on its side, but we need something stronger to calm down markets.' Iceland's market authority, battling to stave off national bankruptcy after its banks took on massive debts in expanding overseas, took control of Landsbanki, the island's second-largest bank by value. Banks have been hammered since the start of the credit crisis in mid-2007, which has prompted financial institutions to unveil massive writedowns of mortgage-related assets, forced Lehman Brothers to file for bankruptcy and triggered a flurry of government bailouts of embattled companies. The International Monetary Fund increased its estimate of global losses from the financial meltdown to $1.4 trillion and warned that the world's economic downturn was deepening. The U.S. Federal Reserve moved to unclog the commercial paper market, which is widely used to fund day-to-day business by companies. INTEREST RATE CUTS European Central Bank Governing Council member Guy Quaden said an interest rate cut was no longer excluded. But some analysts advised against distress sale of stocks and hoped that things might improve. 'You must not panic. That's the worst thing to do. You do not sell good quality shares at these prices,' said Alan Harris, investment manager at Charles Stanley. 'This could be sort of a climactic sell-off that very often leads to the bottom of the market, and we've been in a bear market for 15 months now, which is a reasonable length of time.' Germany's DAX index was down 1.1 percent, the UK's FTSE 100 index up 0.4 percent and France's CAC 40 up 0.6 percent. Energy stocks followed crude prices higher, with BP , Royal Dutch Shell, Total and gas producer BG Group adding between 3.2 and 4.6 percent Higher metals prices gave a lift to mining stocks. BHP Billiton, Anglo American, Vedanta Resources , Lonmin, Xstrata, Antofagasta and Rio Tinto rose between 1 and 11.2 percent. Volkswagen shares soared as much as 55 percent to a record high, driven by frantic short-covering. But the shares were down 1.8 percent by the close of the trading session. 'We're reaching a point where the market is reacting emotionally and not rationally, trapped into a vicious circle,' said Barthelemi of Louis Capital. (Reporting by Atul Prakash; Additional reporting by Blaise Robinson in Paris; Editing by Paul Bolding) Keywords: MARKETS EUROPE STOCKStf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.comraCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
