London shares advanced on Thursday with Marks &amp;amp; Spencer leading retailers higher and Senate approval for a U.S. bailout of financial sector helping the banking sector.Marks &amp;amp; Spencer , which sells food, clothes and homeware, advanced 6.8% in early trading on Thursday, recouping a small part of a 64% slump for the shares over the past year.The share slide over the past year means that Marks &amp;amp; Spencer has underperformed banking group Royal Bank of Scotland , which is down 60% over the same time frame. Marks &amp;amp; Spencer shares advanced on Thursday after the retailer reported a 6.1% drop in comparable sales, with food sales down 5.9% and non-food sales down 6.4%. Analysts at Landsbanki noted that the sales figures were better than the 6.5% decline in both divisions that they had been expecting.Total sales in the 13 weeks to Sept. 27 rose 0.4%, while U.K. sales declined 1.6%. Marks &amp;amp; Spencer expects its U.K. gross margin to shrink around 1 percentage point for the year, due to a greater reliance on promotions. 'Consumers are increasingly cautious about their budgets. We have responded by offering our customers better values and more promotions across the business,' the group said.Still, cost guidance improved, the analysts at Landsbanki noted, with the company now expecting a 4% to 5% rise in costs, compared with previous guidance of 7%. 'With sales broadly in line with our full-year estimates and improved cost guidance matched by lower gross-margin guidance, we are leaving estimates unchanged,' they said. 'We expect a positive reaction to the statement today, given the weakness in the shares in recent weeks,' they added.Other retailers in the FTSE 100 were also advancing on Thursday.Fashion retailer Next , down 44% over the past year, climbed 4.2% on Thursday, while home-improvement chain Kingfisher, down 22% over the past year, advanced 2.9% on Thursday.FTSE 100 index upOverall, the U.K. FTSE 100 index rose 0.7%, or 34.30 points, to 4,994.29. Other European shares were also trading in the green ahead of a decision on interest rates from the European Central Bank. See Europe Markets. Banks were performing well after the U.S. Senate approved a revised $700 billion U.S. plan to stabilize the financial industry late Wednesday. A vote in the House is expected on Friday.In London, Barclays climbed 4% and merger partners Lloyds TSB and HBOS rose 4.2% and 14.5%.Homebuilders were also on the move, with Taylor Wimpey up 8.4%, and Barratt Developments up 7.3% outside the top index.Although U.K. house prices fell another 1.7% in September and the annual rate of decline now stands at 12.4%, declines haven't really accelerated in the last three months, said Nationwide's chief economist, Fionnuala Earley. 'This may suggest the beginning of some stabilization in the pace of house-price falls,' she said, speaking after the release of Nationwide's monthly house-price survey on Thursday.However, Earley also noted that with the economy now beginning to contract and expected to remain at sub-trend growth into 2010 there is little to suggest that the market will turn around quickly.On the downside of smaller index action, shares in Wolfson Microelectronics , a supplier of chips to Apple , dropped 20.1%. The firm said that it has seen a material decline in order intake in recent days and cut its fourth-quarter revenue guidance. Third-quarter revenue is expected to meet guidance.
