TOKYO, Oct 20 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond futures ended a tad lower on Monday, giving up early gains as a rally in Tokyo shares triggered selling of safe-haven debt and dealers sold futures to prepare for a 30-year bond auction. JGB futures, however, still finished above a three-month low of 135.47 hit earlier in the day and the 10-year cash JGB yield was steady after rising as much as 2 basis points to 1.60 percent. In addition to worries about the risk of a global economic recession, further improvement in the strained money market helped lend support to JGBs. 'The relative stability in the short-term money markets helps investors and traders buy JGBs,' said Naomi Hasegawa, senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities. A spike in overnight rates in the repurchase market -- where many dealers fund positions by swapping bonds for cash -- had caused some market makers to dump bonds earlier in the month even as the Nikkei share average plummeted to a 5- year low. Foreign hedge funds have also been heavy sellers of JGBs as they raise cash and prepare for expected investor redemptions, analysts said. But as financial markets have shown some signs of stabilising after severe volatility in the past month, investors were encouraged to add to their bond portfolios. December 10-year JGB futures dipped 0.03 point to 135.72 , after rising as much as 0.65 point earlier. Trading volume was light at just under 19,000 contracts. JGB futures shed gains in the afternoon as the Nikkei share average rallied 3.6 percent and dealers sold futures ahead of a 30-year JGB auction on Tuesday, market players said. The benchmark 10-year JGB yield was steady at 1.580 percent . A dealer for a Japanese brokerage house said there had been some investor buying of cash JGBs after 10-year yields rose to 1.60 percent, near a three-month peak of 1.630 percent touched earlier in the month. Despite worries about a sharp global economic recession, JGB yields may have limited room to fall, analysts said. One factor that could limit gains in JGBs is possible profit-taking by domestic investors, who may have an incentive to sell JGBs to offset losses in other assets, said Tatsuo Ichikawa, fixed-income strategist for RBS Securities. 'With equities having fallen this much, many people probably have unrealised losses on their overall securities holdings, and there is likely to be a tendency to take profits where possible and to do so sooner rather than later,' Ichikawa said. JGB strategists at Barclays Capital said the stock market's tumble may have already anticipated what's likely to be a grim economic picture in coming months, and thus investors should be cautious about expecting bond yields to fall sharply. Highlighting how far Japanese stocks have slid, the dividend yield on the Nikkei 225 index has soared to 2.5 percent -- almost a full percentage point above the 10-year JGB yield and about double levels usually seen over the past decade, data from Reuters Ecowin showed. 'Maybe we should be somewhat cautious of a too-simplistic bull scenario for bonds,' the Barclays strategists said. Analysts said Tuesday's auction of 600 billion yen ($5.91 billion) in 30-year JGBs could be a problem for the market because the super-long maturity tends to be dominated by foreign securities houses that have sharply curtailed the risks they take, including bidding in auctions. But Ichikawa at RBS Securities said that while such factors could lead to a weak auction result, there was likely to be continued demand for 30-year bonds from Japanese insurers. In a series of interviews with Reuters, Japan's top life insurers by assets under management have said they are looking to increase the amount of yen bonds they buy in the second half of the fiscal year to the end of March. ($1=101.60 Yen) (Additional reporting by Masayuki Kitano; Editing by Hugh Lawson) .ntCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
