SYDNEY, Oct 27 (Reuters) - Australia's central bank intervened for a second day on Monday to prop up the tumbling Australian dollar, after extreme investor risk aversion saw the currency drop to multi-year lows. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) did not reveal how much it had spent buying the local currency on Friday and Monday, or at what level it intervened, saying the action was aimed at boosting liquidity in the market. 'We did intervene for a while on Monday morning as the activity was similar to that on Friday,' an RBA spokesman said. The last time the RBA moved to shore up the currency was in August 2007, when the U.S. subprime mortgage meltdown first set the global credit crisis in motion. By 3:26 p.m. (0426 GMT), the Aussie was at $0.6195, recovering from a five-and-a-half low of $0.6055 late on Friday, and at 58.29 yen, up from a low of 55.11 on the yen -- its worst level since the Australian dollar was first floated in 1983. It has fallen more than 80 percent against the Japanese currency and more than 55 percent against the U.S. dollar since peaking three months ago at almost parity to the greenback. The Aussie has tumbled as investors unwound a five-year long boom in carry trades -- where investors borrowed in cheaper currencies like the yen and Swiss franc to buy high-yielding Australian assets like local government debt. Until recently, Australian interest rates were among the highest in the developed world, luring yield-hungry investors in search of higher returns. Earlier this month, the central bank cut rates by 100 basis points to 6 percent, eroding some of the currency's advantage, with further cuts expected next month and in December. Falling commodity prices, amid fears of a global recession, have added to the Aussie's woes, given that a large portion of the country's foreign exchange earnings come from bulk sales of raw materials like coal, iron ore and wheat. MORE INTERVENTION SEEN Some analysts said the RBA would continue to intervene to try to calm the market for Australian dollars and shore up confidence in the local currency. 'The RBA has a good history of of providing liquidity during period of erratic price movements in the Aussie dollar and I do not see the last action as more than that,' said Robert Rennie, chief currency strategist at Westpac. Treasurer Wayne Swan said the decline in the Australian dollar could bring some benefits to the economy, providing some relief to exporters and the tourism industry. That would be some cushion to the economy as signs point to a slowdown, economists said. 'It's generally positive for companies because a lot of our exports are priced in U.S. dollars,' said Eric Betts, equities strategist, Nomura Australia. 'So it will offset some of the impact of the commodity price slump. It will also help the manufacturers because they compete with imports. It will also help inbound tourism.' The government has already announced measures to cushion the economy from the global slump, including a stimulus package to help households and a guarantee to shield local bank deposits from the credit crisis. The guarantee, however has thrown the savings industry into crisis as investors fled managed funds and foreign banks for the relative safety of domestic banks. On Monday, Colonial First State Global Asset Management, a division of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, became the latest to suspended withdrawal from some funds as the flight to local bank deposits continued. Still, economists said the fall in the Aussie would help many Australian exporters such as CSL Ltd, Foster's Group Ltd  and Amcor Ltd, when they convert overseas earnings into Aussie dollars for reporting profits. 'There are many more winners than losers,' said UBS equity strategist David Cassidy. 'It's a massive boost for profitability,' he said. Australian miners, such as BHP Billiton Ltd, also rank among the country's biggest exporters, but their currency windfalls have to be weighed against slowing demand from their biggest customers, notably China. (Additional reporting by Denny Thomas, Sonali Paul and Mette Fraende) (Editing by James Thornhill).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
