AIG Vice Chairman Frank G. Wisner Announces Retirement Business Wire    "US Press Releases " NEW YORK --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Frank G. Wisner, Vice Chairman, External Affairs, has announced his plans to retire from American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Ambassador Wisner, 70, joined AIG in 1997 and served on the Board of Directors from 1997 until 2003. Before coming to AIG, Ambassador Wisner had retired from the U.S. government with the rank of Career Ambassador, the highest grade in the Foreign Service. He joined the State Department in 1961 and served in a variety of overseas and Washington positions during his 36-year career. Among his other posts, Ambassador Wisner served successively as U.S. Ambassador to Zambia , Egypt , the Philippines and India . Prior to his posting in New Dehli in 1994, he was Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Before that position, he was Under Secretary of State for International Security Affairs. Commenting on Ambassador Wisner's retirement, AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy said, "Throughout his tenure with AIG, Frank Wisner brought his deep knowledge of international affairs and public policy to AIG's businesses in vibrant markets throughout the world. On behalf of all AIG colleagues who have benefited from his many contributions and tireless leadership over the years, we wish Ambassador Wisner the very best in the future." American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange , as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo . Source: American International Group, Inc.
