FT: AIG considers break-up in bid to stay afloat By Francesco Guerrera in New York and Sundeep Tucker in Hong Kong Published: February 25 2009 23:42   Last updated: February 25 2009 23:42 AIG and the US authorities are in advanced discussions over a radical restructuring that would split the stricken insurer into at least three government-controlled divisions in an attempt to keep it afloat, according to people close to the situation. The restructuring, described by one insider as a controlled break-up, could lead to the end of AIGs 90-year history as a stand-alone global insurance conglomerate. It also could provide a template for carving up other troubled financial groups  such as Citigroup  should they be brought under government control, the people involved say. EDITORS CHOICE Lex: AIG - Feb-26World View: Buyers not tempted to enter flooded market - Feb-25Tepid interest in AIG Asia unit - Feb-25AIG in talks with Fed over another bail-out - Feb-24In depth: Insurance - Dec-17AIG, built into a global insurance powerhouse by decades of deal-making by its former chief executive Hank Greenberg, on Wednesday said it was working with the Fed to evaluate potential new alternatives for addressing AIGs financial challenges. The Fed declined to comment Under the plan, the government would swap its current 80 per cent holding in the insurer for large stakes in three units  AIGs Asian operations, its international life insurance business and the US personal lines business. A fourth unit, comprised of AIGs other businesses and troubled assets, could also be formed. In return, the authorities would relax the terms, or even cancel a large portion, of a $60bn five-year loan to AIG and convert $40bn-worth of preferred stock into shares, in an effort to ease the companys burden. If the plan goes ahead, AIG would remain as a holding company for now. But people involved in the talks say that company could disappear if the government decides to recoup taxpayers investments in the insurer by selling or listing the three divisions separately. The final shape of the new rescue attempt  the third government bail-out of AIG in five months  could still change as talks between company executives, US Treasury, the Federal Reserve and credit rating agencies continue. However, people close to the situation said AIG was on track to announce the overhaul on Monday, when it is expected to report a $60bn loss with its fourth-quarter results. The board is due to meet on Sunday. Insiders said the new rescue plan was precipitated by AIGs deepening financial woes  which were caused by a sharp rise in unrealised losses in its investment portfolio  and its difficulties in selling large assets to repay the current loan. One of AIGs most prized assets, American International Assurance, its Asian business that was once valued at $20bn, attracted lukewarm interest. Potential bidders have been deterred by turbulent conditions in insurance and credit markets. The sale of AIGs US personal lines business, which had been close to being acquired by Zurich Financial, has also run into trouble as funding markets remain under pressure, according to people familiar with the process. The two divisions are likely to split off. The third unit to be carved out, American Life Insurance Company, is a global life insurance company with operations in more than 50 countries and a large presence in Japan. It remains unclear whether the US life insurance business and Foreign General, AIGs international property and casualty insurer, will be included in one of the three divisions or sold separately. International Lease Finance Corporation, AIGs large aircraft leasing business, is likely to be given a government credit line and put up for sale. Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2009
