 AM CST  Not even the biggest gallery in golf could keep the PGA Tour from losing another title sponsor.  Commissioner Tim Finch-em announced Tuesday that FBR has decided not to renew its contract after 2010 for the popular tournament outside Phoenix.  'We've obviously had  and are having  some bumps in the road,' Finchem said.  Already this year, U.S. Bank has said it was pulling out of the Milwaukee tournament after this year, and Ginn Resorts ended its sponsorship contract three years early, prompting the tour to file a lawsuit. The tour also faces uncertainty in Memphis, Tenn., where troubled Stanford Financial was signed up through 2016 as the sponsor.  Kikkan Randall held off Finland's Pirjo Muranen in a photo finish to take silver in the sprint race at the Nordic skiing world championships in Liberec, Czech Republic, becoming the first American woman to win a world or Olympic medal in cross country skiing.  Randall, of Anchorage, Alaska, had never had a top-10 finish in four previous worlds. She led for most of the 1.3-kilometer final but was overtaken by Italy's Arianna Follis in the last turn before the home straight. Follis finished in 2 minutes, 39.3 seconds, and Randall was 0.6 seconds back.  The silver was the first American cross country medal since Bill Koch won bronze in the 30K at the 1982 worlds.  Salt Lake City police said thieves who ransacked the home of David Zabriskie stole  thousands of dollars in bikes and Olympic memorabilia from the world-class cyclist. Zabriskie's loss is estimated at just under $160,000, although not all of the 21 stolen items on a list made public by police have been assessed a value.  Top-seeded Novak Djok-ovic struggled with his serve before beating Italian qualifier Flavio Cipolla 6-3, 6-2 in the first round of the Dubai Tennis Championships.  Lleyton Hewitt lost on his 28th birthday, falling to eighth-seeded Lu Yen-Hsun 7-5, 2-6, 6-2 in the first round of the Delray Beach (Fla.) International Tennis Championships.  The U.S. Davis Cup team will go with its regular lineup for an opening-round match against Switzerland. U.S. captain Patrick McEnroe said Andy Roddick, James Blake and the doubles team of twins Bob and Mike Bryan would compete March 6-8 in Birmingham, Ala. The foursome has been together for 11 of the past 12 Davis Cup matches.  Michael Phelps will swim in a meet in Charlotte in May, ending his three-month suspension for being photographed inhaling from a marijuana pipe.  Meet officials announced that the Olympic great has committed to the Charlotte UltraSwim on May 14-17.  
