They are lucky to be alive today after an early morning fire swept through their house Tuesday, leaving them homeless.  I woke up in shock, said Tracey Parnell. My wife, Lori, woke up me up when the fire started roughly around 4 or 4:15 in the morning (Tuesday) yelling, fire.  He looked out the window, where he saw the lawn and foliage around the house on fire.  My first instinct was to put out the fire with a bucket of water. That didnt work. The fire had already started way more than I could do to extinguish it.  At the same time, the paper boy discovered the fire and called 911.  When Caon City Fire Protection firefighters arrived within five minutes, they found the front of the structure fully involved in flames.  The fire, which began on the exterior of the structure, spread to the attic and into the concealed space, said Caon City Fire Protection District reports.  During the firefighters efforts, they rescued a pet chinchilla, which was returned to the family.  We were very fortunate. We all made it out alive, Tracey said. It happened at a point where I was dead asleep. If my wife hadnt woke up .... She saved our lives. Shes a real hero to me, Tracey said.  In the meantime, the family is staying at a local motel for three days with money from the burnout fund from the fire department. They also have a lead on another place to live until the house can be restored.  Although the family has insurance on their home, it will be hard to replace the contents of the home. Currently, Lori works part-time at Hildebrand while studying to become a nurse at Pueblo Community College, while Tracey is employed with Carara Painting Company.  We didnt have anything when we came out of that house, Tracey said. Were starting with nothing again. Eventually, well get our house back, but thats down the road.  To help them recover from the devastating fire, donation boxes have been set up on the Fremont Campus of Pueblo Community College.  In addition, Lori has an account at US Bank if anyone would like to make donations.  Nevertheless, Tracey said he was thankful to his neighbors, their friends, church members and whoever else helped them after the fire.  Weve had a lot of people we dont know come to our aid, Tracey said. This is a good community.  In addition, Tracey and Lori have three daughters, Leann Correa, 16, Bryna Correa, 15, and Morgan Correa, 12.  Those who would like to help the family get back on their feet can take cash or send checks for the Lori Parnell account at US Bank at 801 Macon Ave. in Caon City.  Charlotte Burrous can be reached at cburrous@ccdailyrecord.com  
