12 of 20 Sports stories: NEXT &gt;&gt; The Miners and the Patroons played each other three times in the past four nights at the Armory. Before that, they played each other twice in Kentucky and, at the end of this week, the Patroons will be back in the Bluegrass State for two more games with the Miners.  And, if the Miners and the Patroons were the only two teams in the CBA, the Patroons would win the league title.  The Patroons beat East Kentucky 98-90 Saturday night at the Armory, the fourth time in five tries Albany has beaten the Miners. 'This was a big challenge for us tonight,'' said Patroons coach Derrick Rowland. 'The schedule we have had lately is unheard of.''  He's right. Saturday's game was the Patroons seventh in the past 11 days. And it's not going to get any easier.  Starting Monday, the Patroons are scheduled to play six games in seven days. On Monday and Tuesday the Pats play here against former coach Micheal Ray Richardson and the Lawton Fort Sill Cavalry. Then it's back to East Kentucky for two games Thursday and Friday and then to Cleveland to play a pair against the ABA Rockers. 'I've got to talk to somebody about that,'' Rowland said.  But it's doubtful he'll be able to get the Cleveland games off the schedule because the Rockers are scheduled to come to Albany later this month. 'Like I've said before, this is the CBA and you press on,'' Rowland said. 'I never had anything like this when I was playing. I just take my hat off to these guys. We didn't have much gas tonight, but we gutted it out.''  The Patroons got double-doubles from Harvey Thomas (30 points, 11 rebounds) and Gabe Freeman (19-11) in winning for the fifth straight game. Albany took five of seven standings points and improved to 12-6 in the CBA. East Kentucky is 7-7.  Rowland said his team has been so whipped recently that he hasn't been able to have full practices. He didn't have a shootaround on Saturday and won't practice today. His main goal right now is to conserve as much energy as possible.  The Miners trailed by just three points on several occasions in the fourth quarter but the Patroons, fatigue or not, made a play.  Tim Wilkin can be reached at 454-5415 or by e-mail at twilkin@timesunion.com 
