When the actors arrived for Sunday's matinee of 'Proof,' they found the floor of the Evjue Theatre (the smaller theater in the Bartell) submerged under water.  Some thought at first that it was from melting snow due to the unusually high weekend temperatures, but the culprit turned out to be a burst pipe at the US Bank building, just down the road at 1 S. Pinckney. It happened sometime after the last show closed Saturday night and when Madison Theatre Guild performers arrived Sunday afternoon.  With standing water not just in the performance space but in the green room and hallways as well, MTG was forced to cancel its sold-out show. They called volunteers from the Bartell Theatre's other four companies (Stage Q, Mercury Players, Encore! and Strollers) and soon people were manning the flooded hallways with Shop-Vacs.  'After God knows how many hours, who knows how much water is built up behind the walls, waiting to seep in,' said Alan J. Hart, who works with Mercury Players. 'You do a section and by the time you empty out the Shop-Vac, there's another layer of water.'  The performance space is pretty clear now, Hart said, though the Evjue floor -- having been painted over and over 'a bazillion times' -- may have sustained long-term damage. No props or set pieces appear to have been damaged, but there was still water under the 'Proof' set in the Evjue as of Sunday night.  Hart said the city fire marshall visited while he was working at the Bartell, and that leaders are trying to recruit volunteers to help keep the water levels down. He planned to go back in the middle of the night after catching a short rest.  There is no word yet on whether US Bank's insurance policy will cover the damage to the Bartell, or whether Madison Theatre Guild will be able to recoup lost revenue from this Sunday's matinee. Damage to other neighboring buildings in the 100 block of E. Mifflin Street is unknown.  Update: Sarah Hoover, managing director of the Bartell, said Monday morning that because of some 30 volunteers who worked late into the night Sunday night, the carpet may have been saved.  'Without those people busting their rears, if would've been much worse,' Hoover said. 'Our real challenge (is) that we may need to buff that (Evjue) stage floor down to its beginnings.'  A remediation expert is still testing to see if the drywall is damaged beyond repair, if there might be mildew or mold problems, and how long it will take to dry the concrete, which absorbed a lot of water. The total cost of the floor may be close to $10,000, an expense Hoover hopes will be paid for either by the Bartell's insurance or US Bank's.  Hoover said that the Bartell has also filed a claim to its insurance company for business income lost due to the cancellation of 'Proof' on Sunday afternoon.  'The remediation experts think we can make the space usable by Friday night,' she said. 'That's the goal. It won't be completely repaired, but it would be usable, and the show could go on. We're hoping they only miss one show.'  
