COLONIE - What's good is bad, and what's bad is good. There was plenty of both for the CBA and Albany High basketball teams Friday night. CBA, trying to keep pace with Big 10 leader Bishop Maginn, raced out to a 42-16 halftime lead over Albany and was up by as many as 32 with three minutes to play in the third quarter. That's when the Falcons picked up their intensity and at least made the final score respectable in a 68-53 loss.'It's a learning experience,' Albany coach Jon McClement said. 'We went through every situation and emotion that you can go through in one game, other than realizing the victory.'The Brothers (13-2, 11-1) were nursing a 13-12 lead until they scored the final eight points of the first quarter, then outscored the Falcons 21-4 in the second.  Albany (6-8, 5-6) trailed 50-18 before Corey Harris (18 points), Roger West (16) and Markeim Perry (11) showed that the Falcons have some heart.'Sometimes you get angry as a coach to let a team come back,' CBA coach Dave Doemel said, 'but we worked so hard to get that lead. We did a great job. We can't lose sight of those kinds of things.'CBA played textbook defense in the first half, shutting down Albany's fast-break game and forcing the Falcons into difficult shots.  Leading scorer Kameron Ritter had 20 points, 18 in the first half.'Defensively in the first half we did everything according to plans,' Doemel said. 'In the third quarter I thought we came out pretty well, then it looked like we got a little complacent there.''Our transition was terrible,' McClement said. 'You have to defend Kameron Ritter. We did a really poor job of that.'Albany got to within 58-41 with 4:16 to go when its bench was hit with a technical foul after Perry drove the lane to score but wasn't given an opportunity for a three-point play. That ignited a seven-point CBA spurt.  With a 24-point lead, the Brothers cleared the bench for the last 3 minutes. Albany took advantage.'We lost our aggressiveness at the end because of our lead,' said CBA guard Galal Cancer, 'but we fought it out.'Pete Dougherty can be reached at 454-5416 or by e-mail at pdougherty@timesunion.com.  
