Business First of Columbus - by Jeff Bell  Courtesy Classic Productions Inc.  The Arnold Fitness Expo drew a capacity crowd to the Greater Columbus Convention Center last year.  Related News  Fitness buffs, athletes and the businesses that bank on them are not letting the tough economic times dim their enthusiasm for the upcoming Arnold Sports Festival in Columbus.  Ticket sales and athlete entries are on pace with last years event, which drew 160,000 visitors and 17,000 competitors, said Jim Lorimer, the events long-time director.  In addition, the Arnold Fitness Expo at the Greater Columbus Convention Center will have 700 vendor booths, up about 50 from a year ago, with another 50 on a waiting list.  We decided not to participate in the recession, said Lorimer, a retired Nationwide Insurance executive who has been organizing bodybuilding events in Columbus with legendary bodybuilder, actor and California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger for more than 30 years.  Target market  A few national sponsors have pulled out of this years event, Lorimer acknowledged, but the increase in exhibitors should cover the revenue loss.  Vendors say to us, We feel we have to be there,  Lorimer said. A lot of them are small companies in nutrition, sports apparel and exercise equipment. Theyve found they dont get this kind of exposure anywhere else.  One of the vendors is Don Caster, owner of the Raisin Rack, a natural foods market in Westerville. He will be an exhibitor at the expo for the 23rd straight year.  Its not a dumb muscleman show, Caster said. With the diversity of people, youre missing out from a marketing standpoint if youre not there. I still believe maintaining a visual presence is critical for survival in this economy. This show draws a huge crowd and is targeted to our market.  Caster, who pays $10,000 for a booth and corporate sponsorship, also likes being involved because the festival brings many visitors to Columbus. Last years event delivered an estimated economic impact of more than $40 million in Central Ohio, according to a study by Experience Columbus, the regions travel and tourism organization.  Another expo vendor, Fran Frost, said the idea for her Gym Gems jewelry business was born five years ago at the Arnold when she served as a volunteer. Attendees noticed her handmade jewelry that featured mini-dumbbells and weight plates and wanted to know where they could buy it.  Frost decided to launch Gym Gems based on that experience, and she has had a booth at the Arnold expo since 2005. She never gave any thought to pulling out this year in the tough economy, even though her booth costs $2,000.  I know Im competing for discretionary dollars, Frost said, but people are still very much into fitness. The economy has not affected my business at all. In fact, its growing.  Bigger and bigger  Lorimer said the event thrives because it offers something new every year. This years festival will be held March 6-8 at four spots in Columbus  the convention center, Nationwide Arena, Veterans Memorial and the Lausche Building at the Ohio Expo Center.  No longer just a bodybuilding event, the Arnold features competitions in 12 Olympic sports, including archery, boxing, gymnastics, fencing, table tennis, weight lifting and wrestling. There is also martial arts, fitness, cheerleading and dance-team championships, strongman and arm-wrestling contests, an Ultimate Fighting Championship bout and even the Arnold Active Aging Festival for the older crowd looking to get fit.  Additions this year will include a 5-kilometer race-walk downtown March 8, an international mens fencing competition in the convention center March 7-8, and the Arnold Party with the Pros, a nightclub-like event the evening of March 7 at Lifestyle Community Pavilion in the Arena District.  And the Arnold wouldnt make it without the involvement of its namesake, said Lorimer, president of Classic Productions Inc., the company that owns the sports festival. Although Schwarzenegger no longer has a financial interest in the event, he continues to attend the festival all three days. He visits with expo vendors and sponsors, attends special events and pumps up competitors at sports competitions.  He will go to every one of the 37 competition sites and interact at every one of them, Lorimer said. Thats very important to people.  Arnold Sports Festival  Where: Greater Columbus Convention Center, Franklin County Veterans Memorial, Nationwide Arena, Ohio Expo Center, Lifestyle Communities Pavilion  When: March 6-8  Event founders: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jim Lorimer  Events: Bodybuilding, fitness and arm-wrestling competitions, 12 Olympic sports, martial arts, cheerleading and dance championships, 5K race-walk, Arnold Strongman Contest, Fitness Expo and Party with the Pros  2008 athletes: 17,000  2008 attendance: 160,000  Tickets: $10 for most events at convention center, Nationwide Arena and expo center; $25 for amateur fitness, figure and bodybuilding at Veterans Memorial  
