Celebrating its eighth year, the Food Network South Beach Wine &amp; Food Festival will take place Feb. 19  22.  The 2009 festival kicks-off on Thursday, Feb. 19 with an exclusive Salute to Spain Dinner at the Biltmore Hotel. From there, other new events include:   Brunch at Miami Beachs iconic Joes Stone Crab featuring magnums of champagne from Veuve Clicquot and La Grande Dame.   A succulent seafood celebration at the Mandarin Oriental hotel brought to you by the islands of Turks and Caicos, accented by Kim Crawford wines.   Luxurious brunch set to sizzle at the Delano Hotel; featuring Dolce wines and hosted by Katie Lee Joel and Food Networks Chef Anne Burrell, the affair will be an elite opportunity to experience Dolces liquid gold in one of Miami Beachs defining boutique hotels.   The 2009 dinner series also includes an Indian dinner hosted by Madhur Jaffrey, an all-organic dinner at Paradise Farms hosted by Michael Schwartz, and the Wolfsonian Mouton-Rothschild Dinner held in the presence of Baroness Philippine de Rothschild of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild.  Continuing the festival tradition of recognizing leaders in the culinary industry, the 2009 Tribute Dinner will honor Mr. BAM himself, Emeril Lagasse.  In a parade of talent at the Loews Miami Beach Hotel, a night emceed by Martha Stewart will feature dishes by Bobby Flay, Mario Batali, Charlie Trotter, Eric Ripert, Nobu Matsuhisa.  Late Night Parties  In South Beach fashion, the 2009 festival will also feature a selection of elite late-night soirees.   The fun begins with a party produced by MIAMI magazine and hosted by Tyler Florence, host of Food Networks Tylers Ultimate and Food 911.   The return of Harrahs Poker Party and Casino Night hosted by Food Networks Paula Deen.   A late-night party sponsored by the spirits of Patrn.   Sandra Lee  star of Food Networks Semi-Homemade with Sandra Lee  offers her own spin on the festivities by inviting everyone over for a good old-fashioned sunset pool party.   Closing party hosted by Food Networks Bobby Flay and actress Stephanie March, complete with drinks and gourmet hors doeuvres and desserts.  Festival Classics  Festival classics will return with wine and culinary celebrities hosting dinners, tastings, wine seminars, interactive cooking lunches, and much more. The 2009 Wine Spectator Wine Seminar Series and the Bank of America Lifestyle Wine and Spirits Seminars will offer educational and entertaining tastings to satisfy the palettes of both novices and aficionados alike, expanding to take place at both the Miami Beach Convention Center and the Loews Miami Beach Hotel.   The Whole Foods Market Grand Tasting Village featuring the American Express Grand Tasting tents returns with a blend of tasting and superstar chefs.   Celebrating its third year as part of the festival, Amstel Lights Burger Bash hosted by Rachael Ray serves as the start to the entire line-up of the star-studded wine and culinary extravaganza.   Wine Spectators Best of the Best sponsored by Bank of America will move into the new space of the Fontainebleau Miami Beach; utilizing over 25,000 square feet of newly renovated ballrooms and the outdoor terrace, highlighting a luxurious lounge presented by Cigar Aficionado.   The festivals pairing of Americas best barbeque and champagne will be back as the Perrier-Jout BubbleQ hosted by Tom Colicchio, featuring the talent of Adam Perry Lang, Clay Conley, Jonathan Eismann, Rick Bayless, Chris Lilly, Marcus Samuelsson, and many more.  
