We knit proudly and often in public.  We knit with our friends and sometimes with strangers. Finding a space other than someone's apartment is helpful if you'd like to seat more than four people, particularly if they are strangers.  Fortunately, a few years ago the city struck bargains with various private developers in exchange for public space in private buildings.  This means a number of lovely public spaces that are just waiting to host your next knitting get-together. I hope to detail a couple of these spaces each week, and will only include spaces I've been to, so forget the boroughs - only Manhattan spaces will be discussed because you know that cross-borough pollination is a rare thing indeed.  Citigroup Atrium  601 Lexington Avenue (between 53rd &amp; 54th)  A frequent haunt of the New York Sit 'n' Knit group, the atrium at the Citibank building is an indoor courtyard with seating and a little food court to buy snacks.  The space closes at 9pm.  Oh, and if you start to feel the siren song of the Barnes and Noble, well, I warned you.  Whitney at Altria  120 Park Avenue (corner of 42nd St)  This small indoor concrete space was part of the Whitney Museum branch in this building.  I believe that the museum branch closed this year (so another name might now be more appropriate), but the space is still open to the public and is located on the southwest corner of 42nd Street and Park Avenue.  It's slightly hidden, despite being smack across from Grand Central.  A good number of tables, chairs and concrete benches are available and it's usually empty, perfect for a small gathering of knitters!  Topics:  Knit in Public Spaces  More from NY Knitting Examiner  February 16, 4:51 PM  The range of books released about knitting only continues to grow, making it tough to keep up financially.  The good news: Your local public library can help.  As interest in knitting continues to expand, public libraries must likewise expand... Read More  February 12, 4:26 PM  As knitting gains in popularity, the quality and diversity of related books also grows.  2008 was a fantastic year for books for knitters and here I take a look at two that break out from the usual. A Fine Fleece by Lisa LoydWhat... Read More  Topics:  Book Reviews  February 10, 1:21 PM  If there's one thing that I do more than knit, it's read, and lately I've gotten on a kick of reading about knitting.  There are obviously plenty of books with patterns, but not too many talk about the craft, either humorous or factual.  Here... Read More  Topics:  Book Reviews  February 7, 3:02 PM  They call us nerds.  Or geeks.  Or other less nice words.  In essence, pursuits and entertainment that are imaginative, creative, and sometimes a little 'out there' are dubbed nerdy.  But guess what? Nerd is the new... Read More  February 4, 3:43 PM  Are you a crafter who has a skill to share?  Or a craft vendor looking for the next DIY show?  Maybe you just love shopping DIY fairs or want to learn a new craft?  Then check this out: a local DIY indoor market and workshop... Read More  February 2, 10:03 AM  I'm a firm believer that we always have something new to learn, whether applied to a current skill, or life in general.  Despite the long history of knitting, I'm always amazed at the new and creative techniques that are still being devised. ... Read More  Topics:  Learn Something New  January 30, 4:10 PM  Until now, I had resisted the urge to spend all of my income at yarn.com (WEBS), but I have finally given in.  I know a few folks who rely on WEBS for their yarn needs, but I wasn't previously convinced.  It all changed when I yearned... Read More  Topics:  Shopping  January 27, 9:34 PM  I just have to share with you the absolute coolest 'charity' knitting/crochet projects out there: the Pratchgan. British author Terry Pratchett, known for his absurdly brilliant Discword books, was diagnosed in 2007 with early onset... Read More  January 21, 1:32 PM  In the fall of 2008, Little Big Planet was released to the masses.  Little Big Planet is a PlayStation3 game with a huge target audience, combining arcade adventure, puzzles and cooperative play.  Up to four people can play together, navigating... Read More  
