BANKS are reeling with Commonwealth Bank flagging more bad debt provisions would affect profit and Brisbane-based Suncorp axing another 340 jobs.  At its annual general meeting yesterday, CBA told angry shareholders the increased provisions would take into account future corporate collapses, including the teetering Centro Properties, on top of the $440 million hit from ABC Learning Centres.   CBA also lent $150 million to the collapsed US investment bank Lehman Brothers and has $170 million exposed to Allco Finance. 'While there is no evidence of systemic credit issues, the group's exposure to Lehman Brothers, Allco Finance Group and ABC Learning Centres will result in significantly higher first-half provisions,' said chief executive officer Ralph Norris, pictured, addressing the annual general meeting.   Chief financial officer David Craig said CBA was awaiting receivers' reports on possible recoveries from Allco Finance ($170 million) and ABC Learning and could not quantify expected losses until then.   A feisty Brian Johnson, regarded as Australia's top banking analyst, suggested to the CBA board it was too late to make a provision on ABC Learning. 'ABC Learning's balance sheet showed $2 billion of shareholder funds, but $3 billion in goodwill, a negative current ratio, and yet we had all four banks stump up about $850 million of debt in the month of December,' he said. Meanwhile, the axe is falling on 340 jobs throughout Suncorp, taking the toll since March to almost 3 per cent of the banking-insurance giant's workforce. It marks the latest cutting of jobs throughout Australia's finance sector.   Advisory group KPMG last month estimated up to 10,000 positions could go sector-wide in the next 12 months.   Suncorp is discussing the cuts with the Finance Sector Union, which last month joined shareholders in berating management over executive bonuses.   But FSU state secretary Michael Clifford said there was not enough information about where retrenchments were being made.   The 340 positions add to almost 200 jobs gone since March. The actual number of people out of work is unknown as the notification and transfer process is still under way. But Suncorp yesterday said it would not be near the 1500 positions speculated.   While Suncorp recently maintained surveys showed a strong morale level, this has been disputed by ex-staff who spoke to The Courier-Mail.   CBA shares hit their lowest level since January 2005, falling 6 per cent to $33 while Suncorp dropped more than 7 per cent to $7.20.     
