THE row over executive pay at Australia's big banks is to intensify with ANZ chief Mike Smith emerging as the country's highest-paid bank boss.  Mr Smith collected a cool $12.96 million in the 12 months to the end of September despite the fact that ANZ posted a 20 per cent fall in net profit.   His pay is more than $4 million above Westpac chief Gail Kelly and CBA boss Ralph Norris, both of whom managed to boost annual earnings at their banks last year.   The big component of Mr Smith's pay, which tipped his package into eight figures, was a $5.1 million sign-on fee when he joined the ANZ from HSBC last year. Mr Smith is due to receive another $4 million worth of sign-on compensation over the next two years.   Outgoing National Australia Bank chief John Stewart was the only major bank boss to cop a pay cut. While NAB shareholders paid a big price following the $1.1 billion of writedowns on US debt securities, Mr Stewart's pay was cut by only $305,000 to $8.5 million.   Details of the pay packages of Mr Smith and Mr Stewart were announced to the market yesterday as St George chief executive Paul Fegan said he would be leaving the bank following the merger with Westpac.   Mr Fegan, who was paid $4.25 million in the 12 months to the end of September, will receive $2 million in cash and other entitlements when he vacates the role on December 8. In the wake of the recent controversy over the tenure of ANZ chairman Charles Goode, the board has also decided to cap the tenure of directors to about 10 years.   Mr Goode has been ANZ chairman since 1995, but the new rule will not apply to him when he seeks re-election to the board at this year's AGM.   A group of institutional investors have already signalled their opposition to the reappointment.   Last week Mr Goode signalled he would step down from the board in the middle of next year when his successor, Sir Rod Eddington, will become a director at ANZ.   NAB will also have to deal with hostile shareholders over its governance policies at its AGM in Melbourne next month.     
