CFK Childcare Centres has become the latest loss-making company in the sector to fall into the hands of administrators, succumbing last night to the same problems that beset ABC Learning Centres.  The company, which runs 36 centres, mostly in suburban Sydney, was unable to turn around centres that were in the red.  CFK was tipped into the hands of Michael Humphris from the insolvency firm BDO Kendalls after the non-executive director Doug Lomas withdraw a financial lifeline and National Australia Bank was no longer willing to continue financing, CFK said.  Mr Humphris was in meetings with CFK's directors last night. He was unable to comment on how many centres would have to close.  CFK's board said in a statement that it was unaware of the 'depth of problems in the business, including significant loss-making' when it was appointed in September last year.  The news came as receivers in charge of ABC Learning Centres said they were putting together a business plan to keep the child-care operator alive, but they are in a race against time to provide more certainty to parents, who are already pulling their children out of ABC centres.  At yesterday's meeting in Brisbane of more than 100 of the company's creditors, the receiver Chris Honey, of McGrathNicol, said: 'We are developing a business plan to let ABC trade on a sustainable basis.'  Mr Honey would not answer questions about a possible sale or say whether the profitability of ABC centres had worsened because of an exodus of customers.  Last week the Federal Government said 40 per cent of ABC's 1040 centres in Australia were unprofitable, and it was forced to inject $22 million to fund the loss-making centres until the end of the year.  There is no certainty that these centres will remain open next year.  In an appeal to parents who are thinking of changing their child-care provider, Mr Honey said the company needed their support and insisted the 40 per cent of the centres that were unprofitable before his appointment would not necessarily be shut down. Continued...  Page  1 2  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
