The Daily Telegraph  Text size  SEETHING ABC Learning Centres shareholders are likely to lose their entire investments if the childcare operator sinks into administration, analysts have warned.  Reports suggest the ABC board is close to pulling the pin on the debt-riddled company after failing to find a solution to keep it afloat.  The company issued a statement yesterday claiming it was 'continuing discussions with key stakeholders to secure the future of the company's operations''.  The Brisbane-based empire founded by Eddy Groves, which manages almost 1200 childcare centres in Australia and New Zealand, owes the stakeholders $1 billion, with $500 million of that owed to the Commonwealth Bank alone.  However, analysts and commentators are increasingly sceptical the business can fend off administration.  Wise Owl analyst Sven Restel said shareholders, whose holdings have been stuck in a trading suspension since August 25, would be unlikely to retrieve any of their money if such were to occur.  He told The Daily Telegraph falling asset valuations would mean that an administration-led asset sale would barely cover its debt positions.  'Shareholders are likely to lose all their money, because secured creditors have first call. The administrators will take the assets and sell them, and the secure credits will have first call,'' he said.  'In the current climate, asset prices have fallen a lot and in the event of an admin sale, it is virtually a fire sale. They already have sold assets in the US, which they had booked a loss on.  'So, if you took it across the whole company, they will book substantial losses on all assets.''  ABC Learning Centres' last stated net asset valuation was $2.2 billion, given before several key assets were sold in the US and UK this year.  One analyst contacted by The Daily Telegraph said accountants Ernst &amp;amp; Young were regularly finding more gremlins in the accounts.  ABC is yet to post its 2007-'08 full-year results and now appears unlikely to do so.  'We hear that Ernst &amp;amp; Young keep finding new issues with previous and current accounts and the losses that were reported as $433million have now ballooned to $600 million,'' the analyst said.  So far the Rudd Government has resisted calls to bail out the company and privatise it, ensuring that the centres remain open.  The Government has set up a task force to ensure families are not adversely affected by changes to the nation's biggest childcare provider.  'While it is not appropriate for the Government to comment on an individual organisation's structural or financial situation, the Government obviously takes a keen interest in the provision of childcare in Australia,'' Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard said.  The company floated on the stock exchange seven years ago with 43 centres.  
