 DANNY JOHN  St George Bank shareholders have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the $16 billion merger with Westpac, with nearly 95% of the groups investors supporting the deal.  Chairman John Curtis disclosed this morning that 278 billion shares were cast in favour, with just 14 billion against.  The size of the vote has ensured that the bank comfortably cleared the 75% hurdle required under the scheme of arrangement terms for the merger to go ahead as planned.  Details of the pre-polling vote of those 900 retail shareholders attending the today's extraordinary general meering in Sydney were given by the chairman just before the formal vote.  Earlier, Mr Curtis made a staunch defence of the bank's decision to merge as angry retail shareholders criticised the move at the meeting called to vote on the deal.  Speaker after speaker of the 900 shareholders attending the meeting at Sydney's Convention Centre in Darling Harbour attacked the board's 'capitulation'' after Westpac's move on St George in May this year.  The meeting, however, was always expected to vote overwhelmingly in favour of the proposal thanks to heavy support by institutional investors and even among the retail base of around 150,000 individual shareholders.  A number of shareholders raised concerns that merging with Westpac would see St George's reputation for customer service suffer and that thousands of back office jobs would be lost as the merged group seeks to cut costs.  The speakers included staff who work at St George's main corporate headquarters in Kogarah in south-west Sydney and its subsidiary, Bank SA, in South Australia, both of which are likely to lose staff after Westpac takes control.  The Finance Sector Union has estimated that as many as 5000 jobs could go between the existing Westpac and St George staff numbers, with St George likely to bear the brunt.  Asked today by one shareholder about possible job losses among the 3000 people who work in Kogarah whether they would escape the axe, Mr Curtis was unable to give an assurance that Westpac wouldn't substantially reduce numbers there.  However, Mr Curtis did flag that there would be some 'inevitable short-term pain'', with staff likely to go from the back-office processing areas at its small head office at George Street in Sydney.  He sought to persuade shareholders that the Westpac deal was nonetheless the best way of preserving St George and its business in the face of the worst financial crisis in living memory.  Mr Curtis pointed out that Westpac intended to retain not only the St George name but its 400 branches, its ATM network and a sizeable presence in Kogarah.
