The debt-laden Allco Finance Group, one of the highest-profile Australian corporate victims of the global credit crunch, has gone into the hands of receivers after failing to secure its survival in talks with its bankers.  The Sydney-based investment firm on Tuesday went into voluntary administration and was then handed over to receivers by its syndicate of 12 banks.  Allco, which was a key player in the consortium that made last year's failed takeover attempt for national carrier Qantas, announced it had appointed Tony McGrath and Joseph Hayes of McGrathMcNicol as voluntary administrators.  'The action was taken following the directors' careful review of the company's future,' Allco said in a statement to the stock exchange.  It said the company's banking syndicate, which is led by Commonwealth Bank, had subsequently appointed Steve Sherman and Peter Gothard of Ferrier Hodgson as receivers.  Allco shares were placed in a trading halt while it continued last-minute talks with its bankers about extending its debt repayment schedule.  Its shares last traded at 14 cents before the trading halt, a far cry from the $10 price before the start of the global credit crisis in August last year and an all-time high of above $13 in February that year.  The stock price tumbled this year as surging credit rates prompted investors to dump companies carrying large amounts of debt and forced the firm to sell assets to meet repayment obligations.  Allco has now become one of the highest-profile victims of the credit crunch after talks with its syndicate of bankers broke down over $667 million of senior debt.  Two weeks ago Allco warned that it would have trouble extending its debt repayment schedule because of the difficulty of selling assets amid the global credit crunch and volatility in world financial markets.  Allco posted a $1.73 billion loss for the 2007/08 financial year - one of the Australia's largest corporate earnings losses - with managing director David Clarke describing the asset manager's position as 'fragile'.  The company had scrapped its investment banking business model and was transforming itself into a funds manager.  Late last month Allco said it had entered into fresh negotiations with its bankers and said there was a 'significant risk' the firm would not meet the November and December 2008 instalments on its senior debt despite continuing to meet interest payments.  Trading in Allco's shares as well as its notes has been suspended.  
