It is believed corporate recovery groups Ferrier Hodgson and McGrath Nicols will be appointed as administrators and receivers to ABC, which has about 1200 centres across Australia and New Zealand.   Concerns about underlying profitability at some centres have prompted the move.   Brisbane-based ABC, whose mascot is a purple teddy bear, has had a terrible year in which profits and shares have slumped. The shares remain frozen at 54c off 2006's all-time highs of $8.80.   Shares had fallen on concerns over a number of issues including ABC's accounting and related-party transactions. These have featured in the decision to place the business into voluntary administration.   ABC said yesterday all centres 'remain open and continue to operate as usual'. Negotiations were ongoing with banks and the Government 'to secure the future of the company's operations'. 'The primary objective is to ensure that families . . . continue to have access to quality childcare,' it said. Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard's office said ABC's situation was being monitored amid speculation corporate advisers PPB could eventually provide assistance to the Government.   In August, then ABC chief executive officer Eddy Groves rejected suggestions the operation he co-founded 20 years earlier would collapse.   But concerns have continued with ABC repeatedly missing self-imposed deadlines to file results for this financial year.   It has previously flagged a pre-tax loss of more than $400 million, but many industry observers suggest this will blow out.   Some industry sources expect ABC centres to remain open, arguing the Government would not allow the facilities to close. But questions remain about who could successfully run the centres.   Parents who have prepaid fees are likely to become creditors.   Yet uncertainty hangs over which shareholders may rank equally as creditors.   A recent legal case involving goldminer Sons of Gwalia determined that those who could claim for damages would have to demonstrate being misled into buying stock.   Sources said this meant people who bought into the company's 2001 float, for example, might be unable to make a claim.   ABC previously declared its accounts fair, but it has also revealed it wrongly booked income in 2006 and 2007.   ABC will still be obliged to file accounts after being placed in administration.   ABC chairman David Ryan said yesterday evening he was in meetings and unable to comment. Mr Groves, ousted in September, declined to comment.   Former ABC chairwoman Sallyanne Atkinson, who has 695,000 shares, said it 'would be a tragedy if this company goes under because it fulfils all the criteria of a very good business'. She said ABC had a quality product in demand. 'All it needs is good management,' she said. She declined to answer questions about the accounts, which are being restated.   A collapse could affect contractors, such as the 123 Global group.   Privately owned 123 has had many ties to ABC raising some analyst queries even though both organisations maintained they were separate.   Yet the two organisations recently clashed in a dispute on staffing.   123 director Don Jones said he was 'worried about speculation' surrounding ABC and any impact on Australia's childcare infrastructure.   ABC's lenders include Commonwealth Bank, BankWest, Westpac, ANZ, National Australia Bank, Mizuho, Bank of America and Citigroup.   None would confirm exposures but there is speculation that amounts range from $50 million to more than $500 million. ABC's last full-year accounts note it having almost $1.7 billion in non-cancellable operating lease payments.
