r approved  10:19am   National Foods grows with Dairy Farmers  10:12am   RBA moves in to help struggling dollar  09:54am   Average weekly wage is now $1,147  09:34am   FMG steadies ship with new appointment  09:32am   Aust leads global fiscal review  08:55am   Tough trading in media world: Fairfax  08:46am   Lend Lease confirms profit fall  08:46am   Record production, profit: Woodside  A count of proxy votes cast by St George Bank shareholders has gone in favour of the bank's proposed merger with Westpac Banking Corp.  Some 94.37 per cent of proxy votes were in favour of the merger, with 4.95 per cent against.  The proposal had been expected to pass.  By holder, 88.89 per cent of votes were cast in favour, with 9.8 per cent against.  The proposal had been expected to pass despite St George Bank chairman John Curtis saying ealier today that although the proposal take over is very compelling there is the prospect of job losses.  'The Westpac proposal was about bringing together two very successful businesses with iconic brands and complementary cultures and therefore it made great strategic sense,' Mr Curtis said.  But he warned there may be job losses.  'Yes, unfortunately there may well be some job losses, mainly in the back office and head office functions, which are inevitable with any merger,' Mr Curtis said.  'But Westpac have given a commitment to minimise job losses through natural attrition and redeployment wherever possible.'  Westpac offered $1.31 of its shares for every St George share. St George shareholders will also receive a special dividend payment.  The offer had already been recommended by St George directors.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
