Creditors including Austock Group Ltd and Australia's big banks should know within a week if they will recover any losses from their total $987 million exposures to failed childcare provider ABC Learning Centres Ltd.  Receiver Chris Honey of McGrathNicol told media his team was working to avoid placing the company in liquidation and should have a business plan prepared within a week. 'This is a complex process but we are working as fast as we can in order that we can provide a clearer picture of the future of this business for parents and staff,' he said after briefing creditors at a meeting in Brisbane.  But potential litigation also is on the cards, with the possibility of global financial services giant Morgan Stanley taking an action over misleading and deceptive conduct associated with a $82.2 million share placement by ABC Learning in June.  The placement gave Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia a 12.9 per cent stake in ABC at $1.15 per share.  Morgan Stanley Australia declined to comment.  The placement was one of two associations Morgan had with ABC Learning, and came ahead of Morgan Stanley Private Equity's purchase of a 60 per cent stake in ABC's US unit, worth $US420 million ($A640 million), in late June.  As one of ABC Learning's strongest supporters, listed investment firm Austock advised ABC Learning on the sale.  Austock's shares fell 5.2 per cent to 18 cents on Tuesday after it revealed a credit exposure to ABC Learning of around $4.4 million that could trigger a 'substantial' one-off provision in fiscal 2009 depending on the outcome of discussions with McGrathNicol.  About $3.2 million of that relates to unpaid fees for advice by Austock Corporate Finance Pty Ltd in relation to the sale of ABC Learning's US business, managing director Tim Boyle said in a statement.  Another $1.2 million was owed for property services rendered by Austock Property Services Pty Ltd since July 1, 2008.  Austock had close links with ABC Learning, with former executive chairman Bill Bessemer also a former director of ABC Learning.  He stepped down from his post at Austock on November 1.  Austock joins Australia's major lenders in the queue to the receiver's door.  The banks announced an aggregate exposure of $982 million when ABC Learning went into voluntary administration on November 7.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)'s original $700 million exposure now stands at $460 million, which will be written down to zero during the current half year, chief executive Ralph Norris told shareholders at the bank's annual meeting last week.  Other exposures among the big four stand at $200 million for Westpac Banking Corporation, $182 million for ANZ Banking Group, and $140 million for National Australia Bank.
