STAFF at some ABC Learning centres are considering management buy-outs as the distressed child-care company fights for survival.  And companies which offer employer-sponsored child care through ABC Learning are contemplating their options, including the possibility of taking over centre leases.  Large levels of debt have forced the firm to dismantle its international child-care empire, although it still operates almost 1200 child-care centres in Australia and New Zealand.  But ABC Learning has been unable to lodge its full-year accounts for 2007-08 and a plan to reinvigorate the board is in disarray, with at least two of the five selected directors having severed contact with the firm.  The Age understands Paul Binsted, the chairman of Sydney Ports and a former investment banker, is the latest departure.  Frank Ford, a former managing partner of accounting firm Deloitte, had already pulled out.  Last night ABC Learning representatives were meeting the company's bankers in Brisbane.  It is believed the company owes more than $500 million to the Commonwealth Bank.  'ABC Learning Centres is continuing discussions with key stakeholders to secure the future of the company's operations,' ABC Learning said in a short statement to the Australian Securities Exchange.  Insiders said co-founder and former chief executive Eddy Groves had behaved dishonestly, concealing crucial information about the company's accounts. And there were several 'holes' to be plugged.  Shares have been in a trading halt since August 22 and the company is expected to go into voluntary administration.  It is believed forensic accounting firms would be appointed on behalf of the banks, the company and the Federal Government.  WeeWunz Corporate Child Care Solutions director Sheila Ghosh said that while the Government would probably step in should ABC Learning fall over, companies were starting to come up with their own long-term contingency plans. Continued...  Page  1 2  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
