Receivers say a business plan to be issued within a week will give parents an indication of the future of the 1200 child care centres in financially-troubled child care giant ABC Learning Centres.  However the future seems less bright for unsecured creditors, with sharemarket analyst Stephen Mayne fearing they will receive very little in returns.  Mayne, the founder of online news site crikey.com, is the only individual noteholder/shareholder on the 10-member creditors committee elected at the meeting today.  A proposal to widen that committee to 15 members has been referred to the Federal Court.  Mr Mayne said the business was bleeding and suggested unsecured creditors would receive nothing. 'The Commonwealth Bank has already written off their entire $450 million unsecured notes,' Mr Mayne said. 'Obviously the employees have a better situation because they give priority in relation to some of their entitlements.' Those at today's meeting heard staff leave and pay entitlements - not including possible redundancies - amounted to $31 million.  Overall, ABC Learning's 2243 creditors, both secured and unsecured, are owed more than $1.6 billion - $1,629,138,444.57.  Mr Mayne said employees should keep faith, but he was concerned for ABC Learning Centres' unsecured creditors. 'I think for the employees there is a fair bit of hope, but I think for the unsecured creditors who aren't employees, the likelihood is that they will get nothing because there is a billion dollars worth of bank debt to be paid first.' Later, Gary Honey from receivers McGrathNicol said a business plan would be issued within a week and he hoped it would give parents the direction they wanted. 'Our work is proceeding extremely well on the business plan,' Mr Honey said. 'We are extremely conscious that uncertainty amongst parents and staff is the main issue at the moment, so obviously we need to get an answer out to parents and staff as quickly as possible. 'And so I would be hopeful that within the coming week we would be able to offer some more clarity for parents and staff.' Mr Honey refused to speculate on the number of child care centres that might have to be sold in order for the business to continue.  He said the current funding package - including the $22 million offered by the Federal Government, plus $30 million from banking creditors - would keep the centres open until December 31.  However he would not discuss what may happen after Christmas. 'We have given the commitment in conjunction with the funding that has been provided by the government and by the group's financiers to keep all ABC centres open until December 31,' Mr Honey said. He said he was looking to establish a 'core business' that would continue to trade into the new year, but declined to elaborate.  Louise Tarrant, national secretary of the LHMU, surrounded by ABC Learning Centre staff at the meeting, said she still was still left with questions. 'What we heard today is that there is $31 million worth of workers' hard-earned wages, annual leave and long service leave outstanding, which is a very considerable amount of money owed to workers in ABC and we are very concerned about that,' she said. Ms Tarrant said she was surprised to learn that the receivers were 'pulling the shots' when it came to determining the future of ABC Learning. 'And from what the receivers have said in there to the creditors, clearly they are looking to salvage the operation, which is good news for parents, good news for workers in that they are looking to continue the operation beyond December 31,' she said. 'They are not looking with great interest at the expressions of interest coming in - they are more noting those - because they think that the company has a long-term life.' ABC Centre employees at the meeting pleaded to be given advice as soon as possible.
