ANGRY shareholders yesterday grilled the Commonwealth Bank over its $680 million exposure to failed childcare operator ABC Learning Centres.  Bank chief executive Ralph Norris confirmed CBA was writing off $440 million of listed notes issued by ABC and conceded that the bank needed to 'learn from its mistakes'. ABC, with almost 1100 centres across Australia, plunged into receivership last week. Reports yesterday said a Sydney court was told ABC's total debt had so far reached $1.57 billion, including $110 million owed to external creditors. It is also understood ABC's receivers have secured temporary funding.   The ABC loss is the largest writedown for CBA since it lost more than $200 million on stricken exposures to Pasminco and Enron in 2002. 'The notes at this point are valueless - they have no ranking of any significance,' Mr Norris told shareholders. 'Most of the banks were of the view until recently that ABC had a fundamentally sound business. From time to time we are going to make a mistake - experience is often a very harsh taskmaster.' Mr Norris hinted the bank may consider taking legal action against former directors and auditors of ABC Learning but he refused to say what form such action may take.   He said the bank had relied on information in ABC's financial accounts before agreeing to take on more exposure to the company but the accounting turned out to be unreliable. '(ABC's) accounting was of some doubt or of a dubious nature,' he said. ABC also has been facing questions recently on staffing levels, although it has maintained operations are running as normal.   A rival company that teaches childcare workers, meanwhile, has said students are concerned about the future of ABC's National Institute of Early Childhood Education.   Narelle Cossettini, of Australian Child Care Career Options, said her organisation had received almost a dozen queries so far.   But it is understood those within the institute feel it has a future. A spokesman for ABC receivers McGrath Nicol yesterday said of the institute: 'It is business as usual.' Industry sources also said former ABC Learning Centres executive Martin Kemp had turned up at the Gold Coast offices of battling minnow rival CFK. Mr Kemp was unavailable.   Mid-sized operator Early Learning Services, under pressure about its loans, yesterday said it had renegotiated its financial agreements.   This allowed the business to continue as a 'going concern', Early Learning said.
