THE spectacular collapse of child-care company ABC Learning Centres raises a lot more urgent questions than the obvious one about whether privatisation is the best way forward when it comes to preschool care.  Just as pertinent is the remarkable scale of the losses emerging at the group led until recently by Eddie Groves and how they were allowed to accumulate.  Institutional investors will deny it until they are blue in the face, but issues that have nothing to do with numbers can be crucial in the rise and fall of any company. In the case of ABC Learning Centres the charisma of Groves is at the centre of the story.  The last important believer in Eddie Groves was the unfortunate investment officer at Temasek, the government-owned fund from Singapore that signed up for 12 million shares at $2.15 back in February. ABC Learning Centres is in receivership.  Separately, Commonwealth Bank stands to lose a relatively huge amount of money. The bank has revealed exposures of $240 million in loans  this has been well reported. But it also has exposure to $440 million in 'hybrid notes'  so the total damage at the bank could come to more than half-a-billion dollars.  The management at Commonwealth Bank can join a long queue of people who must now be thinking long and hard about Groves: what he said, what he promised and what happened next. The list might include Le Neve Groves, Eddie's estranged wife, who built the business with him from the early days. The woman with the PhD in child education who perfectly set off Eddie's colourful cowboy-boot style is suing Eddie for $40 million. And then there is the legion of analysts and journalists (myself included)  who 'fell' for Eddie and his story.  The question now is: can we save the ABC Learning debacle from morphing into the great Australian child-care debacle? To do so we have to separate the Eddie Groves story from the reality that there are 1200 child-care centres linked with the group and perhaps one-third of them are in jeopardy.  The worst thing the receiver of ABC Learning Centres could do is to close creches that could be viable. After putting up $22 million to save the enterprise, Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard has said there will be no more money available.  ABC Learning Centres is really only a manager of child-care centres. Most of the buildings were sold off over the years to a variety of trusts and independent landlords. The biggest of these trusts is the Australian Education Trust, which owns more than 400 centres.  
