: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Liam Walsh  THE 20-year-old childcare empire of ABC Learning Centres, founded by businessman Eddy Groves, could be slowly carved up.  The current credit crisis, a potential lawsuit and lack of bulky players in the local childcare industry are potential obstacles to any quick sale of ABC, which was placed in receivership yesterday.  But some speculation remains that a big superannuation fund, or potentially a US organisation, might try to snaffle the almost 1100 centres that ABC runs in Australia.  It is possible ABC's joint venture partners in the US, Morgan Stanley, could buy out the full American operation.  The ABC board appointed adminstrators Ferrier Hodgson yesterday.  It owes more than $1.3 billion to banks and note holders.  The number of creditors is currently unclear.  The banks have appointed McGrathNicol as receivers.  'Clearly, in the opinion of the company's directors . . . the company is either insolvent or about to become insolvent,' McGrathNicol's Chris Honey said.  It is understood the board recently became concerned about the underlying profitability of some centres.  Concerns also surrounded related-party dealings and the accuracy of accounts.  Putting ABC, which was once worth more than $3.5 billion, into receivership has sparked government intervention, shareholder anger and concern among parents and staff.  'Parents and staff can be reassured that following our appointment, the group's childcare centres will continue to operate, certainly while we conduct a review,' Mr Honey said.  'It's important that we undertake a thorough, detailed review of the company business (and) childcare centres.  'Conversely, we also recognise there is some sense of urgency here. It is critical that we maintain the confidence of parents and staff throughout this process.'  The receivers can choose to continue trading or sell assets.  'We are not talking to potential buyers at the moment' but interested parties had called, Mr Honey said.  Some stakeholders feel that private equity investors would be interested in buying some ABC centres.  But it is thought such a buyer would want a 'clean' operation and not the current muddled situation created by ABC's accounts being restated.  Kevin Stapleton, of Childcare Sales Australia, said Australia did not have another childcare operator large enough to take over all the ABC centres here.  '(But) given the number of centres, it's not going to be easy to find retail buyers,' he said.  Childcare National Association president Chris Buck said it was not 'beyond the realms of possibility that buyers in or associated with Australia have the appetite to buy all the centres in one line'.  He also raised the possibility that some organisations could buy packages of 100 centres.  Potential buyers of smaller numbers of ABC centres could include Ramsey Bourne or former childcare entrepreneur Michael Gordon. Neither was available for comment.  A potential big purchaser named yesterday was the US Knowledge Universe group.  Aged-care operators looking to expand and diversify are other potential buyers.  The Federal Government has offered assistance, but so far has only referred to continuing subsidies. Sources do not believe the Government would take an equity stake, but there is some speculation it could guarantee rent and operating costs so centres can stay open.  Creditors include the Commonwealth Bank, believed to be owed more than $500 million.  'The banks will take a whopping haircut,' one market watcher said.  Some shareholders are understood to be furious.  Major shareholder Temasek yesterday said: 'We note the serious development announced by ABC Learning. We are monitoring the situation closely and will explore all options available to us.'  
