St George Bank Limited (SGB)said it was inevitable that one day it would be taken over by one of the large banks. The company said maintaining the St George culture was critical in its decision to endorse the Westpac Banking Corporation's (WBC) proposal.  Chairman John Curtis told shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting ahead of the vote on merger with Westpac that the board had been prepared for a merger approach for some time.  'When Westpac approached St George in May this year we were well prepared,' he said.  'It was evident from the outset that the proposal put forward by Westpac was a very compelling one for St George from a strategic, financial, staff and customer perspective.'  He said as opposed to a cash transaction where the highest cash price was extremely important, in a scrip based transaction the model of that combined entity was a major consideration.  'Clearly this is how future value will be created,' he said.  'The Westpac proposal was about bringing together two very successful businesses with iconic brands and complementary cultures and therefore it made great strategic sense.'  Mr Curtis said bringing them together in a that preserved St George's operating model and unique culture made even more sense particularly for customers, staff and shareholders.  'The board was not only conscious of the financial and strategic perspectives which are some of the drivers of shareholder value but most importantly what this would mean for staff and customers who are the basis of this bank,' he said.  He said under the Westpac proposal, the distinctive St George, BankSA and Asgard brands would all be retained and the culture and customer service focus of St George would also be retained and strengthened.  'In addition, Westpac indicated its commitment to the retention of the St George branches and ATM networks and our corporate presence in Kogarah, which the Treasurer has also noted in his approval of the merger,' he said.  He said the board understood that the merger was about retention and growth of the St George culture both inside St George and Westpac.  'Unfortunately there may well be some job losses, mainly in the back office and head office functions, which are inevitable with any merger but Westpac have given a commitment to minimise job losses through natural attrition and redeployment wherever possible,' he said.  'However whilst the board understands that there will be some inevitable short term pain, the acceptance of the Westpac proposal is all about trying to create a stronger and even better bank for customers, staff and shareholders over the ensuing years, particularly having regard to the current uncertain economic outlook.'  From a financial viewpoint the offer to shareholders of 1.31 Westpac shares for every St George share, representing a 28.5% upfront premium at the time of the offer, was also important in the board reaching its unanimous decision to recommend the Westpac proposal to shareholders.  In addition, at the time of agreeing to the Westpac proposal, he said the board was conscious of the level of market volatility in global financial institutions and credit markets.  In September, the offer was further enhanced as St George and Westpac agreed to revised merger terms, involving a special dividend for St George shareholders to be paid over and above the 2008 final dividend.  'The special dividend has now been determined as an additional 31c per share fully franked which will be paid to St.George Bank shareholders on 18 December 2008,' he said.  'I believe that this merger represents a real win/win for all parties.'  Mr Curtis said the merger would create a stronger bank with a bigger balance sheet and improved access to funding, characteristics that were especially important in times such as these.  'If the merger is not approved, St George will continue to operate as a stand alone bank,' he said.  'While St George will benefit from a lower cost to income ratio and better asset quality across the book relative to the major banks, having regard to the volatile economic outlook the rate of earnings growth achieved by St George in the year to September 2008 is most unlikely to be sustained.'  At 1244 AEDT, St George was down $1.71 or 6.4% at $24.79, while Westpac was $1.21 or 6.3% lower at $17.89.  
