THE CEO of City Pacific has stepped down early after furious investors verbally attacked him and even made death threats at a meeting last week.  Phil Sullivan said yesterday he was not forced to resign from the debt-laden Gold Coast property financier and funds manager he launched 11 years ago.   Lawyer John Ellis, who joined the board last month after serving as legal counsel since the firm's inception, has taken the helm, effective immediately.  Mr Sullivan said vicious comments at an investor road show in Sydney last week prompted his decision, although he would stay on briefly as a consultant to ease Mr Ellis into the top job.'I've just decided the business doesn't deserve being associated with those sorts of comments,' Mr Sullivan said.'I was initially to hand on early in the new year but I have decided to step back immediately as a result of the issue of last week.' frozen $1 billion  has halted distribution payments to more than 11,000 mostly elderly investors and prevented redemptions since March.  A unitholders' action group has criticised the company's $30 million management fee in the last financial year and called for a new responsible entity to take control of the fund.  City Pacific narrowly avoided the appointment of receivers two weeks ago when it secured an extension to pay back debt owed to the Commonwealth Bank. It now has until February 27 to repay $114 million, while the fund owes $121.5 million by the same date.  Mr Sullivan has also resigned as managing director of developer CP1 after it posted a $109 million loss this week amid auditor fears about its ability to continue as a going concern. CP1, which is 30 per cent owned by City Pacific, owes $76 million to the fund.  Mr Ellis praised Mr Sullivan for providing 'great service to the company over a long period of time' but said the departure now was in the best interests of the firm. 'We need a change in direction and management style to accommodate the current climate,' Mr Ellis said.He said a deferred plan to list the fund on the ASX was still one of several options under review to give investors access to their money.  Pensioner Laurence McCreed, who has most of his life savings tied up in the fund, said he was 'very pleased' to learn of Mr Sullivan's exit but did not want him remaining as a consultant.   Mr McCreed said he would never have invested with City Pacific if he had known Mr Sullivan spent three years as a bankrupt in the 1980s after his building company collapsed owing nearly $220,000.     
