ABC Learning's board has appointed voluntary administrators Ferrier Hodgson whose first task will be to see if the company can be saved.  The company's banks, which together are owed an estimated $850 million, also brought in insolvency experts Chris Honey from McGrathNicol as receivers this morning to protect their interests as the main secured creditors.  Mr Honey said in a statement that ABC's child-care centres would remain open. 'It is our intention to manage this process smoothly, and avoid disruption to families,'' Mr Honey said.  He is expected to release details of the plan to ensure centres continue trading at a press conference later today.  Hotline for parents: 180 2003  Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner said the government was working to ensure centres were caring for children as usual, without taking over the operation from ABC Learning. 'Look, I wouldn't imagine we would be directly running them, but clearly one of the things we've been working through in recent weeks is the prospect of what might happen if this eventuality does emerge,'' he said.  Education Minister Julia Gillard said in a statement that a hotline had been set up to answer queries from parents and staff of ABC's centres.  The number 180 2003 will operate from 3pm today.  ABC Learning Centres would receive more than $300 million in subsidies from the government this financial year, Ms Gillard said.  Insolvency firm PPB was appointed to look after the interests of the Federal Government, which subsidises the care of more than 100,000 children at ABC's centres. 'The board and current management team are disappointed to be in this position despite the efforts of so many staff and the continued support of parents,'' chairman David Ryan said in a statement today.  The cave-in came a day after ABC attempted to reassure parents and investors by saying that talks were continuing with its banks and the government.  Ferrier Hodgson partner Peter Walker took the reins of the empire which was once worth more than $4 billion and will attempt to see if there is any way to save the company through a restructure.  Banks line up  Only last week the Commonwealth Bank moved to protect its loans of at least $600 million with an unlimited charge over ABC's assets, which include more than 1200 centres in Australia and New Zealand.  The bank has already written down $100 million worth of ABC Learning notes it held.  Preliminary report out soon  Creditors can expect to hear the administrator's preliminary view of the state of the company at a meeting expected to be held on November 18.  But a detailed report on the findings will not be released until a second meeting later this year, or early next year.  At its peak ABC was the largest publicly listed child-care operator in the world and a sharemarket darling, with a market capitalisation of $4.1 billion.  But its shares remain suspended at 54c, valuing the company at just $296 million.  They have been suspended for more than two months pending the release of the accounts which had been expected to contain losses of up to $600 million and wipe out all profits the company has made since it listed seven years ago.  Shares worthless  Its 34,000 shareholders will not receive anything, as only secured creditors will likely claw back some of their funds.  Former chief executive Eddy Groves and his wife Le Neve, from whom he is separated, once had shares worth $325 million, now the pair have 16,000 shares which are worthless.  The pair are embroiled in a bitter legal battle over the wealth they accumulated while they were together.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission is investigating whether the directors of the company breached any of their obligations under the Corporations Act.  A shareholder class action for damages worth more than $100 million has also been launched.  Sydney Morning Herald
