ware, a people management software and services provider, has announced a reseller partnership with Hewlett-Packard's Education Services group.  With more than a decade of experience in learning technologies, Saba currently provides scalable solutions and support for global enterprises based in more than 90 countries worldwide. Through this agreement, the company continues to expand the footprint for its people management solutions.  'Saba has a long track record in providing leading, global enterprises with scalable software and best practices for people management that can increase organizational productivity and improve business performance,' said Bobby Yazdani, chairman and CEO of Saba Software. 'We are pleased to work with HP to deliver robust, proven learning management solutions and expertise.'  The Saba Learning Suite is the most comprehensive solution available to address the strategic mandates of the learning organization-to deliver effective formal and informal learning that is tied to clear business outcomes and strategic people management initiatives. The Saba Learning Suite is available OnDemand or on premise, and can help organizations develop and implement sales and channel readiness, channel certification, customer education, regulatory compliance, and corporate university programs.  Saba said its customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, Daimler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health &amp;amp; Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service, and U.S. Navy.  ((Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com))  ((Distributed via M2 Communications Ltd - http://www.m2.com))  http://www.10meters.com  Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com  For full details on Hewlett-Packard Co (HPQ) click here. Hewlett-Packard Co (HPQ) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on Hewlett-Packard Co (HPQ) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
