Australia's largest child-care operator, ABC Learning Centres  Wednesday said it is continuing talks on its future with its banks and the government.   The statement followed news reports the debt-laden group is poised to hand over control to administrators after months of escalating financial concerns. 'ABC Learning Centres is continuing discussions with key stakeholders to secure the future of the company's operations,' the company said in a statement. 'These discussions have included ABC's banks and the government.' An ABC Learning spokeswoman declined to comment on the reports it may be close to receivership.   The Australian government last month revealed it had contingency plans in place to deal with the potential collapse of ABC Learning, which employs around 16,000 staff and looks after more than 100,000 children.   A spokeswoman for Education Minister Julia Gillard said Wednesday that the government is monitoring the situation and had already set up a taskforce to deal with the matter. 'The government is not going to speculate on an individual company's financial or structural situation,' the spokeswoman said. 'We are awaiting the statement from ABC Learning as to their future.' ABC, which manages around 1200 child care centers across Australia and New Zealand, moved to reassure staff and parents its centers remain and open and 'continue to operate as usual'. Shares in ABC have been suspended since Aug. 21 after the company failed to lodge its accounts for the year to June 30, 2008 after new auditors Ernst &amp;amp; Young were appointed.   The protracted delay has prompted concern its accounts may be in worse shape than expected. ABC has flagged a pretax loss of A$437 million and a A$213 million writedown for 2007-08. It also foreshadowed adjustments to its 2006-07 accounts.   ABC's founder and chief executive, Eddy Groves, resigned from the company last month.   Since listing seven years ago, ABC had undertaken a debt fueled buying spree, expanding Groves' empire into the U.S. and U.K.   However, in April as the global credit squeeze tightened, ABC was forced to sell a 60% stake in its U.S. operations to Morgan Stanley Private Equity to help pay down debt.   Commonwealth Bank of Australia  is the company's main lender, with an exposure upwards of $500 million, the Australian Financial Review has reported.   A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.   At 0220 Commonwealth Bank shares were down 2.7% to A$40.68 compared with a 1.8% rise in the broader market amid concerns over its exposure to ABC Learning and structured finance firm Allco Finance Group Ltd. (AGF.AU), which Tuesday appointed voluntary administrators. 
