A SYNDICATE of ABC Learning's banking creditors have lent the failed company a further $30 million to keep child-care centres open until the end of the year.  The money comes after ABC's administrators went to the Federal Court on Wednesday to seek approval for a quick injection of cash to continue operating ABC's 1040 child-care centres in the short term.  In a statement, the Commonwealth Bank confirmed the banking syndicate had agreed to a short-term loan, which will be treated as a priority repayment above all other creditors.  However, a spokesman for ABC's receivers, McGrathNicol, yesterday would not comment on ABC's finances and reiterated the receivers were still calling for enrolments for next year.  The quick injection of funds by the banking syndicate was welcome relief for ABC Learning's administrators Ferrier Hodgson, who told the Federal Court that ABC would be out of money as of yesterday unless an extra debt burden was granted.  In an affidavit presented to the court, it was revealed Commonwealth and Westpac banks injected about $10 million into ABC the day after administrators took over the operations on November 6.  That money has since run out and the banking syndicate has extended its loans by up to $30 million to add to the $22 million pledged by the Federal Government to pay ABC staff to the end of the year.  The banking syndicate also includes the National Australia Bank, ANZ, Citigroup, BankWest, Bank of America and Japan's Mizuho Corporate Bank.  The full extent of creditors' exposure was also revealed in the Federal Court yesterday with Malcolm Oakes, SC, telling the court that ABC had a further 400 creditors excluding the banking syndicate, shareholders and employees, who are owed about $110 million.  The banking syndicate is owed a total of $860 million with another $600 million owed to unsecured note holders, taking ABC's total debt to $1.57 billion.  The uncertainty has prompted some families to withdraw their children from ABC centres.  Further details about ABC's financial operations also came to light showing inter-company loans between the 39 companies under the ABC umbrella.  Justice Arthur Emmett told the court some of those companies appeared to do nothing but hold funds from loans made to the dominant ABC company, ABC Developmental Learning Centres Pty Ltd.  Justice Emmett said the bookkeeping of all the 39 ABC companies had been kept in an unusual manner.  The large number of companies under ABC's umbrella is the result of an aggressive acquisition regime during the company's heyday.  As a result, the Federal Government is set to announce changes to competition policy to prevent any child-care company from buying too many centres in one area in the future.  Competition Policy Minister Chris Bowen released a discussion paper in September outlining two options to tackle 'creeping acquisitions', when a company makes several small-scale acquisitions that individually may fall outside the mergers and acquisitions provisions in the Trade Practices Act but which, taken collectively, significantly lessen competition.  Submissions closed on the proposals last month.  
