IT'S UNLIKELY St George Bank boss Paul Fegan is too upset at losing his gig. As Gail Kelly's replacement at the happy dragon prepares to relinquish control to his old boss after almost exactly a year in the job, Fegan can cheer himself with a tidy payout.  Yesterday's St George annual report said Fegan scored $4.5 million for the year to September 30. It comprised take-home pay of $1.7 million plus bonuses, among them about $1 million in share grants and options.  But there's also what's not included. Such as the provision in Fegan's contract for a payout in the case of 'diminution in responsibilities' - such as Kelly's Westpac buying back the shop.  There's the one-year fixed payout worth another $1.7 million. And the short-term bonus the board at its discretion can grant him worth up to $1.8 million. Then there's 183,765 options and awards that have vested and are eligible to be paid, worth another $5.5 million. That's up to $11.7 million for a year's work. We suspect Gail would be proud.  Still, it may be interesting to see how the board handles some of Fegan's entitlements to various options and performance rights, particularly the $1 million included as part of his salary that have been granted but haven't vested.  It's a nice problem to have. And one that comes before we even consider the 220,000 shares in St George that Fegan owns, valued at $6.6 million yesterday, which he's obliged to vote in favour of the deal. Not to mention the 31c special dividend Westpac is paying as part of the deal.  Nevertheless, it all pales into insignificance alongside one final great joy - passing on most, if not all, of the Reserve Bank's 75 basis points interest rate cut.  Any margin squeeze aint his problem anymore.  Good to see Macquarie showing its support for BrisConnections, the toll-road operator it floated earlier this year to rave reviews. Faced with the prospect of stumping up another $2 per unit to get its newly trimmed 0.5c distribution, one Macquarie division, Macquarie Investment Holdings, headed for the exits yesterday. It sold 28 million shares, or 7.25 per cent of the company, for 0.1c, down a touch from the issue price of $1. Having pumped in $28 million, Macquarie secured an impressive $28,281 on the way out.  We suspect the negative-99.99 per cent return on the investment is close to a record for Macquarie. Still, at least it saved them coughing up the extra two bucks in instalments.
