I still have not addressed which points? I understand the one about Jew bankers being the cause of all your problems. But other than saying I don't think so, I don't know what else you want. The Fed and the standing army emerged around the same time. Is that proof of a causal relationship? How would i refute the proof you offer? I didn't say there were no opportunities. I said there weren't opportunities for everyone. I guess it would be similar to saying everyone had the opportunity to win a game of Mayan headball... It's true of course, but history says there's going to be a loser. According to you he deserves it of course. I like this one: "Those "newly conquered" lands were first mainly those lands obtained from France via a purchase. I realize that you probably weren't taught this, but you really should have learned it on your own." No actual people living there? Just some vacant land France had lying around that they weren't using for anything? I'm also amused by your disdain for the people who make the things you use. You're obviously better than the people who work in manufacture. The one thing that always strikes me as I drive through places like Waterbury and Bridgeport and Willimantic past block after block of empty factories and tenement houses... is "why don't these lazy niggers get jobs?" I'm sure your thoughts are similar. When I asked for law it was within the specific contest of your "friend's" assertion that the Fed is unconstitutional. How does McCulloch suggest this to you? The Marshall court held in McCulloch that the Congress has the power to create the US Bank Congress is bound to act under explicit or implied powers of the Constitution. Pragmatically, if all of the means for implementing the explicit powers were listed, then we would not be able to understand or embrace the document; it would not be possible to write them all down in a brief document. Although the term "bank" is not included, there are express powers in the Taxing and Spending Clause. Although not explicitly stated, Congress has the implied power to create the bank in order to implement the express powers. Marshall supported the Court's opinion textually using the Necessary-and-proper clause, which permits Congress to seek an objective that is within the enumerated powers as long as it is rationally related to the objective and not forbidden by the Constitution. Marshall rejected Maryland's narrow interpretation of the clause, because many of the enumerated powers would be useless. Marshall noted that the Necessary and Proper Clause is listed within the powers of Congress, not the limitations. For those reasons, the word "necessary" does not refer to the only way of doing something, but rather applies to various procedures for implementing all constitutionally established powers. Marshall wrote:  Let the end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the constitution, are constitutional.  This principle had been established many years earlier by Alexander Hamilton:[1]  [A] criterion of what is constitutional, and of what is not so.... is the end, to which the measure relates as a mean. If the end be clearly comprehended within any of the specified powers, and if the measure have an obvious relation to that end, and is not forbidden by any particular provision of the Constitution, it may safely be deemed to come within the compass of the national authority. There is also this further criterion which may materially assist the decision: Does the proposed measure abridge a pre-existing right of any State, or of any individual? If it does not, there is a strong presumption in favour of its constitutionality.... Are you trying to make some point other than mine?
