 SRI LANKA: Oil Hedging Deal Turning Into Billion-Dollar Scam  By Feizal Samath  COLOMBO, Dec 8 (IPS)- As global oil prices dive, the Sri Lankan government finds itself saddled with a complicated oil hedging deal with two foreign banks that could cost the country close on one billion US dollars and has brought charges of high corruption upon state officials.  Banking sources said the foreign banks involved, CitiBank and Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), are trying to restructure the hedging transactions with the government to minimize losses to the state. However one proposal, being prepared by SCB could worsen the state petroleum agencys plight.   Putting further pressure on the controversial oil deal is a no-confidence motion being brought up against the government by the main opposition United National Party (UNP) citing several corruption issues, including the oil hedging deal and one over a bankrupt budget airline.   The government is under severe pressure over this issue, UNP parliamentarian Dayasiri Jayasekera, who has been raising many issues of state corruption in the legislature, told IPS.   Transparency International (TI)- Sri Lankas executive director J.C. Weliamuna said the deals have exposed poor governance and corruption in the state mechanism. Neither the regulatory mechanism nor the cabinet have grappled with them nor were alert on questionable deals in the country. &amp;amp;quot;   The state-owned Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC) entered into contracts with five banks led by SCB,since January 2007, to protect itself against rising prices. When prices were over 135 dollars per barrel in mid-2008, the CPC was benefited as it had sought protection on the upside.   But with prices crashing after that and now reigning at 41 dollars per barrel, the CPC ended up owing the banks and the latest liability could be as high as 1 billion dollars by May 2009, at current crude prices. If it falls to 25 dollars, as reported in the British Financial Times on Friday, based on a report by the investment bank Merril Lynch, the liability would be higher.   The Supreme Court, on Nov. 28, temporarily stopped CPC payments to the banks until two petitions, alleging fraud and corruption in the hedging deals, were dealt with. The next hearing is on Dec. 15.      http://www.ipsnews.net/news.asp... 
