          And who paid the bills for that shoulder surgery? Does that come directly out of the Braves' budget? Or does MLB have a big combined medical fund to cover all the costs of performance-related medical treatment?    According to the MLB CBA:   ATTACHMENT 35 Donald M. Fehr, Esquire Executive Director Major League Baseball Players Association 12 East 49th Street New York, NY 10017 Dear Don: This letter will memorialize certain understandings that the Parties have reached during the negotiations over a successor to the 2003- 2006 Basic Agreement. This letter shall be admissible in any arbitration hearing involving an issue addressed herein. A Club has the right under Regulation 2 of the Uniform Players Contract (UPC) to designate the doctors and hospitals furnishing medical care and hospital services to a Player for injuries sustained in the course and within the scope of his employment under his UPC. APlayer is entitled under Article XIII(D) of the Basic Agreement to go to a doctor on the second medical opinion list for diagnosis and a second medical evaluation of an employment related illness or injury being treated by the Club physician. The Parties have had a disagreement regarding Club and Player rights when a second medical opinion doctor and a Club physician disagree on the appropriate course of treatment for a Players employment related injury. Without attempting to resolve this disagreement, the Parties will continue to attempt to avoid disputes that might otherwise arise between Players and Clubs in this area by, among other things, urging their constituents to agree upon a qualified third physician expert in the appropriate medical specialty who would resolve the dispute between the Club physician and the second medical opinion doctor as to the appropriate course of treatment. There have been other circumstances in which the Club physician and a Players second medical opinion doctor agree that a particular surgery is the appropriate course of treatment but the Player and Club disagree as to who should perform the surgery. While the Club has the right to designate the doctors and hospitals when a Player is undergoing a surgery for an employment related injury, the Clubs understand the importance of a Player being comfortable with the physician performing any such surgery. As a result, the Office of the Commissioner will continue to advise Clubs that they should take a Players reasonable preferences into account when designating doctors to perform surgery under Regulation 2. As part of this commitment, the Office of the Commissioner will advise the Clubs that in no event should they force a Player to have a surgery performed by the Club physician but should instead, in any case in which a Player has objected to the surgery being performed by the Club physician, designate another physician to perform the surgery. Finally, disputes have also arisen with respect to which travel costs are appropriately considered part of the reasonable medical expenses for which a Club is responsible under Regulation 2 of the UPC. The Office of the Commissioner recognizes that reasonable medical expenses include actual and reasonable travel costs associated with required follow- up examination(s) with the surgeon who performed covered surgery. The Association, on the other hand, recognizes that reasonable medical expenses would not include travel costs incurred by a Player to see a doctor for routine examination(s) that could have been appropriately performed by a local doctor designated by the Club. Very truly yours, Robert D. Manfred, Jr. Executive Vice President Labor and Human Resources Labor Counsel Major League Baseball Office of the Commissioner 209                  
