  May 30 - Saturday - Convention for the Connecticut LP     Peter D. Schiff --  the author of    Crash Proof: How to Profit from the Coming Economic Collapse,   the man who was the financial advisor for  Dr. Ron Paul's presidential campaign , and the owner/president of  Europacific Investments --  will be the guest speaker at the  state convention  for the  Libertarian Party of Connecticut .   The convention will be held at the Bridgeport  Holiday Inn on May 30 - Saturday .  It would be worth it to go if you have the time just to hear this man speak, and to get an education in sound economic theory so you understand why and how the United States got into this mess.  The ticket price of $45 includes a buffet dinner. The convention will be from  3pm - 9pm . For more details, visit the website for the Libertarian Party of Connecticut:    www.LPCT.org/    Many of you know that I was touting Peter's book before everyone became aware of the economic meltdown this country was headed for.     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   And now for a recent  Newsday  item [  Friday - April 24, 2009, pg. A9  ]..................      'AG: Feds Forced Deal'    - Cuomo says federal officials pressured Bank of America chief into Merrill Lynch deal, threatened to fire him   [Associated Press]      State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo  said yesterday governemnt officials pressured  Bank of America Corp. Ken Lewis  to complete the bank's purchase of  Merrill Lynch , threatening to his job security. A letter from Cuomo's office sent to congressional leaders and federal regulators said Lewis testified in February that former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke threatened to oust the bank's management if it tried to back out of buying Merrill Lynch. The government helped orchestrate the acquisition of the investment bank by Bank of America over the same weekend in September that another investment bank, Lehman Brothers, went under, setting off one of the most intense periods of the financial crisis. Bank of America completed its purchase of Merrill Lynch on Jan. 1. The bank has repeatedly defended its acquisition to shareholders and investors amid revealations of huge losses at Merrill Lynch before completion of the deal.       "We believe we acted legally and appropriately with regard to the Merrill Lynch transaction," Bank of America spokesperson Scott Silvestri said.   Representatives from the Treasury Department had no immediate comment. Lewis' testimony came in response to questioning by Cuomo's office about bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch employees in December, before the Bank of America completed its acquisition of the investment bank. Cuomo's office was trying to determine the timing of the bonuses and whether Bank of America failed to provide full disclosure to shareholders about them. The investigation's focus has since broadened. Cuomo's office continues to investigate the bonus payments but is now also investigating potential securities fraud tied to Bank of America's purchase of Merrill Lynch and whether enough transparency was provided on the deal.       According to the testimony, Lewis had several discussions with government officials over his concerns about the deal, including his desire to scuttle it. But Paulson advised Lewis in late December that if Bank of America terminated the deal, the company's management and board would be replaced.  Lewis told the attorney general's office during his testimony that Paulson said to him: 'I'm going to be very blunt, we're supportive on Bank of America and we want to be of help, but...we would remove the board and the management if you called it.'  Paulson essentially confirmed Lewis' testimony, according to the letter Cuomo sent to government officials yesterday. But  Bernanke and the Federal Reserve have declined to discuss the conversations with Lewis over the Merrill Lynch purchase. The Fed has invoked its bank examination privilege to avoid divulging what it told Lewis, according to the letter.   ***********end of article - reprinted word for word by yours truly*************************     Now, what do you make of this?    These are the same people who caused this mess to begin with. And these are the same people who think they can spend and regulate their way out of it   .  So, go hear  Peter Schiff  speak if you're not doing anything on May 30. Make a weekend out of it. I just wanted everyone to see this article.  Seems like these days, the inside pages of most newspapers can not be read online, or, you have to be a paid subscriber to have access. Even our own sister Riverhead papers, the Suffolk Times and News Review, have gone this route. That's why this libertarian felt the need to head for the Riverhead Suffolk Community campus - (after getting off a midnight shift) to type this article verbatim for publication on this message board. And nothing has been added, edited out or embellished.  I doubt that I'm breaking any laws, but if I am, I prefer to err on the side of informing the people.  Now I shall go to bed. Have a nice day!             
