Looks like US bank preferreds will be volatile until the results of the stress tests are in. The Feds are pushing for mandatory equity conversion of preferreds. Some preferred shareholders will be blind-sided by this.    I see anybody id'd as unsafe having no hope of private capital and going into the arms of the FDIC, probably after a run on the bank.    If my history serves me right, we did this in the Depression. Back then the US government announced the results of who was getting federal help, a list that included many sound banks. The news caused bank runs, taking under many fine institutions. History repeats.    The top 5-10 banks control the vast majority of US deposits. Now that mark-to-market is gone, my guess is that all the favored big banks will be found to be okay and the regionals and community banks will be pushed out of business and into the arms of the majors.  "Too big to fail" gives way to "way too big to fail."    The FDIC is planning to increase its insurance fees about 400-500%, this will further pressure the smaller banks' profitability.     They don't have equal access to cheap federal guarantees of capital issues. Read the Barron's article on Goldman to see how cheap federal capital can help you beat the competition and make a nice buck in the process.    Investment sentiment: No new positions in regionals or communities. Slightly bullish on the majors.     Just my opinion.    ==========    Stress test banks can turn to stakeholders   http://www.reuters.com/article/GlobalFinancialRegulation09/idUSTRE53N3R020090424     U.S. banks undergoing stress tests that need more capital will be encouraged to first go to their current stakeholders, possibly through conversions of preferred stakes to common equity, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp Chairman Sheila Bair said on Friday.    Bair said any banks deemed to need more capital under the tests for more adverse economic conditions should extend conversion offers to their current shareholders before seeking government funds.    
