Capital One Posts $111.9 Million Loss on Bad Loans (Update1) By Hugh Son April 21 (Bloomberg) -- Capital One Financial Corp., the Mclean, Virginia-based credit-card company, had a $111.9 million first-quarter loss as it added $124.1 million to reserves for soured loans. The lender dropped in late New York trading. The loss was 45 cents a share, compared with net income of $548.5 million, or $1.47, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement. Capital One said that its previous estimate of $8.6 billion in soured 2009 loans was too low and declined to update the guidance because of significant uncertainty. The lender boosted reserves for soured loans as rising unemployment squeezes cardholders ability to pay debts. The jobless rate reached 8.5 percent last month, the highest in 25 years, and the U.S. has lost about 5.1 million jobs since the recession began in December 2007. Theres clearly a sharp upward movement in delinquencies and charge-offs, Michael Taiano, analyst at Sandler ONeill &amp; Partners with a sell rating on Capital One, said in an interview before todays announcement. Were probably several quarters away from seeing delinquency trends begin to moderate. Capital One, which has plunged 69 percent in the past year of New York trading, fell 6.6 percent to $14.06 in 4:23 p.m. New York Stock Exchange trading after the announcement. Its loss from continuing operations was 39 cents a share, missing the 4-cent average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Significant Pressures Our first-quarter results reflected significant pressures from the worsening economy, Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank said in the statement. The lender said soured card loans jumped to 9 percent in March from 8.4 percent the previous month, after factoring in a shorter month in February. Capital Ones lower-rated debt backed by card payments may get downgraded by Moodys Investors Service, the firm said yesterday in a statement. Payment rates have fallen steadily since peaking in 2006 as the housing crisis and souring economy have further strained consumers, Moodys analysts led by Mark DiRienz said in the note. Defaults will probably set records this year as more delinquent accounts are turning into losses for lenders, Fitch Ratings said in a November report. Capital One posted a $1.42 billion loss in the fourth quarter of 2008 on impaired-goodwill charges from its auto lender and a $1 billion boost to reserves for soured loans. The firm booked an $810.9 million non-cash impairment on its auto- finance unit. Scaling Back Lenders are closing unused accounts, scaling back credit lines and cutting mail solicitations to insulate against further losses as the Federal Reserve approved rules last year to curtail interest-rate increases on current balances. Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender by assets, reported a $1.77 billion first-quarter loss in its credit-card services unit, compared with an $867 million gain a year earlier. Charging off bad credit-card loans and increasing reserves for expected defaults cost $8.2 billion, up from $4.3 billion a year earlier. Discover Financial Services, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based lender that also runs the fourth-largest credit-card network, said last month in a statement that fiscal first-quarter earnings from continuing operations fell 50 percent to $120 million. Discover tripled its provision for loan losses, to $937.8 million from $305.6 million the same period a year earlier. The 30-day delinquency rate rose to 5.04 percent, from 3.63 percent a year earlier. To contact the reporter on this story: Hugh Son in New York at hson1@bloomberg.net Last Updated: April 21, 2009 16:40 EDT
