A COMMONWEALTH Bank customer has told of his shock after $17,000 disappeared from his account due to a widespread computer glitch.  The bank has apologised after transactions were duplicated in anything up to 200,000 accounts following bill payments and withdrawals over the weekend and especially yesterday.  Frank told 3AW radio that he runs an internet business and got a shock when he checked his online accounts as usual this morning.  'I had to take a double take,' he said. 'From around 17 grand it was about $200 overdrawn.'  'I was thinking, my account's been hijacked.'  Frank said he contacted his wife, who works for Commonwealth, who assured him the problem wasn't exclusive to him and that many accounts had been affected.  'I do have bills to pay so I've just got to sit tight and wait for it to come back,' he said.  Have you been affected? Tell us below  A bank spokesman said the problem had been identified and he hoped all accounts could be rectified by close of business today.  Howevere, he asked customers to be patient as the process may stretch into the night.  Some accounts were also credited with more money than they should have been when transactions were accidentally duplicated.  It is thought that internet banking customers have been most affected, although there have been reports of phone and ATM transactions being duplicated.  One angry customer told us they had been left with no money after the bank bungle.  'I transferred $500 yesterday and CBA has now deducted $1000 from my account leaving me with no money today,' said Renae.  'I'm glad they wont be charging me interest. I should be charging them interest on the additional $500 they have taken.'  A statement from the bank apologised to customers affected by the processing error and said those in immediate need of cash should visit one of their branches.  It also insisted no fees or interest would be charged to customers as a result of the problem.  Commonwealth spokesman Bryan Fitzgerald has admitted they have 'no idea' how many customers have been affected, but that everything possible was being done to rectify the situation.  'Were trying to get to the bottom of this as quickly as we can.,' Mr Fitzgerald told 3AW radio.  'Our customers are our main priority and we apologise to them for this glitch.'  Mr Fitzgerald advised customers who performed a transaction online or at an ATM yesterday to check their accounts.  To comment on this story click here  
