COMMONWEALTH Bank has identified the glitch that left customers missing thousands of dollars from their accounts.  Up to 200,000 customers were affected by the error, with many waking up this morning to find their accounts overdrawn or missing large sums of money.  In an 'emergency update' news item posted to the NetBank website at 2pm, the company said it would resolve the error overnight.  'We have a current issue affecting the balance on a number of customers' accounts where transactions were performed on the 22nd, 23rd, 24th of November,' it said.  'We have identified a fix to this problem which will be resolved overnight.'  Have you been affected? Tell us below  Customers have told the Herald Sun Online of being left short with bills and rent to pay after the processing error wiped money and transactions from their accounts.  'I'm broke... it's taken all my money in my account,' said Eddie. 'I don't even know how I'm going to pay my bills today.'  Some angry customers threatened to sue Commonwealth and wondered how the bank could charge customers for overdrawn accounts after such a debacle.  'I have real issues when $7000.00 goes missing out of my account,' said Joanne.  'CBA has a lot to answer for when they can just deduct from customers' accounts and not have to give a valid reason.  'If a customer lets an account overdraw in error they are charged a fee. Who can the customers send the notice to and claim their fee?'  One customer told of his shock after $17,000 disappeared from his account due to the computer bungle.  Frank told 3AW radio that he runs an internet business and got a shock when he checked his online accounts as usual this morning.  'I had to take a double take,' he said. 'From around 17 grand it was about $200 overdrawn.'  'I was thinking, my account's been hijacked.'  Another angry customer told us they had been left with no money after the bungle.  'I transferred $500 yesterday and CBA has now deducted $1000 from my account leaving me with no money today,' said Renae.  'I'm glad they wont be charging me interest. I should be charging them interest on the additional $500 they have taken.'  A Commonwealth spokesman apologised to all customers affected, said the problem had been identified and said all accounts would be rectified as soon as possible.  However, he asked customers to be patient as the process may stretch into the night.  Some accounts were also credited with more money than they should have been when transactions were accidentally duplicated.  It is thought that internet banking customers have been most affected, although there have been reports of phone and ATM transactions being duplicated.  A statement from the bank apologised to customers affected by the processing error and said those in immediate need of cash should visit one of their branches.  It also insisted no fees or interest would be charged to customers as a result of the problem.  Commonwealth spokesman Bryan Fitzgerald said everything possible was being done to rectify the situation.  'Were trying to get to the bottom of this as quickly as we can.,' Mr Fitzgerald told 3AW radio.  'Our customers are our main priority and we apologise to them for this glitch.'  Mr Fitzgerald advised customers who performed a transaction online or at an ATM yesterday to check their accounts.  
