Speaker wants 'immediate action' from White House and Congress  Justin Hyde and Todd Spangler  Gannett News Service  November 12, 2008  From Lansing State Journal  WASHINGTON - House Speaker Nancy Pelosi committed Tuesday to pushing aid for ailing U.S. automakers next week, saying a special session of Congress would consider broadening the $700 billion financial industry bailout to include Detroit's automakers - with several strings attached.  The move by Pelosi gives automakers a significant chance to receive aid before the end of the Bush administration, a deadline set by General Motors Corp.'s cash drain, which could push the company to the brink before January. GM's stock dipped below $3 a share Tuesday, losing 13 percent to close at $2.92.  Following a meeting with President-elect Barack Obama on Monday, the Bush administration signaled again that it was up to Congress to provide additional aid to the industry beyond the $25 billion in loans approved in September to retool plants. Automakers have said those loans would flow too slowly to help their finances and that the rules on viability could bar them from qualifying.  Sen. Carl Levin, D-Detroit, said an amendment he's drafting to the financial industry bailout would specify $25 billion in loans to help automakers survive the economic downturn. While a request for an additional $25 billion for health care costs of retirees is not in Levin's draft, the UAW said it would continue to press for those loans as well.  'In order to prevent the failure of one or more of the major American automobile manufacturers, which would have a devastating impact on our economy, particularly on the men and women who work in that industry, Congress and the Bush administration must take immediate action,' Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a statement.  The Senate was scheduled to meet next week, but Pelosi had not previously committed to holding a House session without an agreement with the administration on an economic stimulus bill.  Michigan lawmakers, Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., along with Obama, have called on the Bush administration to use powers granted under the financial industry bailout for the automakers, but the administration had said such a move was not part of Congress' intent.  'We understand that they're going through a very difficult time,' White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said of GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler LLC. 'There's been business decisions they've made over the years that have led to this situation, but we have gone as far as we can with the authority Congress has given us in order to help industries.'  Pelosi said she had asked Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., to write an amendment to the financial bailout. She also said aid for the industry would carry many of the same conditions attached to money for banks, such as limits on executive pay, a ban on so-called 'golden parachutes' and protections for taxpayers.  Ford said that it would 'work together with all of our nation's leaders to continue our transformation to greater fuel efficiency and to help protect jobs.' GM said it 'appreciates the speaker's call for urgent action.'  Levin said his amendment included many of the same features as the Frank version, but would specify that the industry should get $25 billion in loans for general business purposes. About $60 billion of the first $250 billion in financial industry bailout funds have yet to be committed.  Levin said the administration's foot-dragging was noticeable compared to the speed in moving to bail out firms, such as the AIG insurance company. 'The contrast between' the administration's 'silence on the use of these funds when it comes to the auto industry compared to the $150 billion when it comes to one insurance company, is pretty startling,' Levin said.  
