 What is wrong with this picture? When a middle class family loses their home and life savings due to tough economic times, they often turn to their family, a parent or an uncle, to bail them out, and often, end up losing their home and life savings. Millions of Americans lost their homes and jobs in the last eight years of the Bush reign. There was no help. They became homeless, jobless and penniless. Pundits presaged a depression. People could not afford to fill their cars with gas, their refrigerators with food, some became actually homeless and turned to homeless shelters. It was a devastating time for many Americans who had done what they were asked to by the government, hold their jobs, pay their bills, but something broke down and they could no longer survive in the land of dreams.  The picture was ugly indeed and continues to be for many. Now let us multiply this picture. Transpose the family with a large company of rich people, oh say, AIG, one of the largest insurance companies in America. Lets say the head of this family slackened and let his children run amuck with other peoples money. And they lost it all. By all, I mean, billions of dollars. What did they do when they needed to be bailed out? Run to Uncle Sam. Cry their hearts out. Stash away millions before declaring bankruptcy.  Uncle Sam was moved, to the tune of over two hundred and eighty billion dollars, to be able to allow the little cousins to go back to business.  What did they do the first week of receiving about a 100 billion? Go to a spa resort and spend half a million dollars on massages and relaxation therapy. What is wrong with this picture? Too much to mention.  If I made a cryptic list, in word, of whats wrong with this picture, it would show the same word over and over on a canvass painted in black. Corruption, corruption, corruption. The next picture of words would read, Nepotism. Capitalism would figure in the middle of the painting. Lies, deceit, dishonesty would follow. Selfish capitalistic greed would read as the headline. Corporate debauchery would sing in the back ground. Men in golden parachutes would fly around the circus.  At the bottom of the well would lie millions of hard working middle class people like me who work all their lives without taking a break so that they can keep a roof over their heads.  When I dont have money for gas I use the bus, the CEO flies on his private jet to Washington to ask for more money. When I lose my job, I go hungry and no one is willing is give me a loan. When the CEO loses my money, the government gives him more money than he can imagine. When I steal from someone else, I am put in jail. When the CEO steals, he is taken to the White House and given a hundred billion dollar check. Whats wrong with this picture?  The writer is a reputed Pakistani journalist, currently residing in San Francisco, USA  
