After loaning insurance giant AIG $85 billion in September, the Federal Reserve announced on Oct. 8 that it would lend the company another $37 billion. This shocking news led to a new segment on Saturday Night Lives Weekend Update with Seth Myers and Amy Poehler called Oh My God, Are You Serious!?! Really? As Amy puts it, Its like you gave your junkie cousin $100 for rent, and then you ran into him at the dog track, and you gave him another $37 billion!  Like most Americans, Im not entirely comfortable with this whole bailout thing. To begin with, it totally ruins our argument against the evils of socialism when the only way we can save the private market in this country is by asking the government for help. And the fact that a big part of the reason we got into this mess in the first place is because of a lack of governmental oversight is just the icing on the cake.  During the same Weekend Update, Seth Myers reports that Cities and states across the country are facing a road salt shortage, leading many areas scrambling to stockpile before the first snow arrives. Because no one could have possibly anticipated another winter.  That got me to thinking  is there any way we could have anticipated this economic crisis? And if so, whos to blame?  Perhaps an analogy would help. What happens when a trusting couple decides to take a well-deserved vacation and leave their teen-aged son at home for the first time? We all know the answer, dont we? Party! The real question is: Can we be trusted to police ourselves? The private market, that is. Or is this just a case of the fox guarding the henhouse  when we ease up on the regulations with the assumption that big companies will do the right thing, is the temptation to abandon our morals and put personal gain ahead of everything else simply too great to resist?  The idea that nobody at any of the failing financial institutions could have possibly anticipated the results of their poor lending practices is a little tough to swallow. So perhaps some of the executives who are responsible for this mess need to be put in time out. Or, at the very least, maybe its time to shorten their leash a little. Yes, you heard right, Im actually considering the merits of more governmental involvement.  Now, Im by no means arguing in favor of socialism. But I do think that since a lot companies in the banking industry and several others have shown that they cant play nice, they need to have some of their privileges taken away. Sort of like what happened with Britney Spears. Britney is very intelligent, very talented and very marketable, but she somehow lost control, and in order for her to get back on track her father had to rein her in and take over. It seems to have worked  after a few months in therapy and out of the spotlight, shes doing much better. And because America loves a good comeback story, shes likely to find herself back on top again.  So, yes, I do think that there is a place, temporarily, for more regulation. As companies show that they can play by the rules  which the government should definitely start enforcing  then they can get some of their privileges back.  So in some ways I can see the benefits of the bailout. The problem, though, is that once you start handing out government cheese to the people who need it, everyone else seems to line up to get their handout, too.  Take the auto industry, which has been struggling but somehow still surviving for the past several years. Suddenly they need a bailout, too  so badly that they cant even wait for a new administration. On a recent Fox News segment, an auto industry executive was debating with another guest who opposed the bailout. The guest argued that we didnt get the auto industry into this mess; its not our responsibility to get them out. The auto executive fought back, saying that his opponent, who drove a Nissan, should have been more patriotic and bought American. His response? American companies should have predicted higher fuel costs and built a car with better gas mileage. Good point. Apparently the American auto industry also has had trouble anticipating another winter.  Im all for allowing people to make their own decisions. The alternative is to let the government decide for us, and I dont think anyone wants that. So if you want to act irresponsibly, God bless you. If you want to borrow money you cant pay back  or lend money you know you wont get back  more power to you. If you want to abuse your body and go without health insurance, hey, who am I to stop you? If you choose to make poor decisions and youre willing to suffer the consequences, then Im willing to let you suffer those consequences. But in America, your right to swing your fists where my nose begins. If youre gonna do the crime, you better be willing to do the time. Its not my responsibility to feel sorry for you and its definitely not my responsibility to bail you out.  
