CHICAGO: President-elect Barack Obama was set to expand his call for swift action to revive the stricken US economy today in his second press conference in as many days focused on unveiling his economic team.   Obama urged Congress Monday (Tuesday in Manila) to get to work on a new stimulus package "right away" so he could sign it as soon as he takes office on January 20, warning there is not a "minute to waste" to deal with an economy that is "trapped in a vicious cycle." He declined to reveal the cost of a plan that some reports said could top $700 billion, but said: "It is going to be of a size and scope that is necessary to get this economy back on track." After touting a plan to create 2.5 million jobs through a spending spree on national infrastructure, Obama was expected to detail plans to slash the federal budget at a press conference here (scheduled at 1 a.m. today in Manila).   Obama nominated New York Federal Reserve President Timothy Geithner to take charge of the Treasury, and its $700-billion bailout for troubled financial institutions as the US administration announced its latest rescue deal, this time for Citigroup.   Vowing to uphold President George W. Bush's far-reaching market commitments, the Democrat said: "We'll need to bring together the best minds in America to guide us and that is what I've sought to do in assembling my economic team." Work ahead The President-elect said his team offered "a depth of experience and a wealth of bold new ideas," with the understanding "that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street while Main Street suffers." They will be getting to work immediately to develop recommendations for the stimulus plan and to "consult with Congress, the current administration, and the Federal Reserve on immediate economic developments over the next two months," he said. Democratic House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said: "Congress stands ready to work with the new president on his bold plan to restore confidence to our economy." House Republican leader John Boehner said that while he looked forward to working with Obama's economic team, the US public did "not believe increasing government spending is the best way to put our economy back on track." Obama team   Geithner, 47, brings up-close experience of the financial crisis having executed the US central bank's burst of market activity from his perch atop the New York Fed.   The former Treasury official "will start his first day on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today's markets-and a clear vision of the steps we must take to revive them," Obama said. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson lauded his designated successor for having been "critical" to the administration's attempts to shore up a battered Wall Street, including in the bailouts of Bear Stearns and insurance giant AIG.   Geithner also received fulsome praise from the White House after taking part in talks to craft a $20-billion rescue deal for Citigroup announced earlier by the Bush administration. "He's obviously exceptionally talented and very smart and ably led the New York Fed these past number of years," White House spokesman Tony Fratto said.   Obama, meanwhile, touted Larry Summers, 53, as "one of the great economic minds of our time" as he named Bill Clinton's blunt-talking final Treasury secretary as director of the powerful National Economic Council.   The appointments expected Tuesday could include Obama's pick for commerce secretary, with New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson reportedly in line for the job of promoting domestic industry.   With the main economic players in place, Obama is expected soon to fill out his national security posts and select a secretary of state-with former Democratic rival Hillary Clinton hotly tipped to serve as diplomat-in-chief.   Susan Rice, an Obama campaign advisor and a former assistant secretary of state for African affairs, has emerged as the leading candidate to be nominated for the US ambassador to the United Nations, ABC News reported. 
