Commonwealth Bank has agreed to reverse any fees charged against the 200,000 customers affected by an online glitch which mistakenly duplicated withdrawals from their accounts.  'The bank will ensure that no fees or interest is charged to its customers as a result of this problem,' the bank said in a statement, after a processing error repeated withdrawals on thousands of NetBank customer accounts last night.  'The Bank is reversing the duplicated transactions from customer accounts which will reinstate customer amounts to their correct position. This will be finalised overnight.'  A spokesman for the bank said any customers who have been penalised by outside vendors for a shortage of funds should contact the Commonwealth to discuss their situation.  The bank has been deluged by calls from customers who found their account balances thrown into disarray by the mistake, which the bank said occurred overnight.  NetBank is the online outlet of Commonwealth Bank's banking services.  Problems linger  A number of customers have reported additional problems with Commonwealth Bank transactions in recent days.  One customer said the problems had occurred as early as Friday with automated payments being deducted twice.  'This seems to happen once a year or so at CBA,' said Matt, a Canberra customer who asked that his last name be withheld.  'A number of substantial payments I processed last night from my business account have been duplicated, leaving the account (with) a near nil balance and me unable to pay other bills.'  'I hope CBA are happy to cover the late fees on this bills.'  A spokesman for the bank said it was aware of no additional problems beyond the processing error.  Fear of penalties  However, fears of being hit by extra penalties - from Commonwealth as well as other creditors - topped customers' worries.  'I am still unable to make any transaction at this very moment and my debtors' chasing me and yes, charging me for late payment,' said Lou from Caroline Springs, in an email.  'I wonder if the bank will reimburse me those late payment charges to my scheduled payments.'  One customer, a woman in Hornsby, said she believed her teenage daughter had been chewing through the cash while away on schoolies, after a deposit she made online did not make it into the girl's account.  'My first worry was she'd gone through $300 in a couple of days but that wasn't the case,' the woman said. 'When I checked online, my transaction record shows I sent the money [but] it hasn't been deducted from my balance, and it hasn't gone through to my daughter.  'In other words, $300 is in limbo, and my daughter could have been stranded in Byron Bay without money.'  Another affected customer told Fairfax Radio that he pulled into a petrol station at 1am today and went to pay with his credit card but was told there was no money in his account when there was supposed to be more than $5000.  Commonwealth Bank shares rose $1.55, or 5.1%, to $31.77, broadly in line with the general market.  czappone@fairfax.com.au  BusinessDay, with Georgina Robinson, SMH Online, and AAP  
