H enry Paulson has surveyed the growing economic wreckage and concluded that insurance conglomerate AIG required an additional $27 billion in taxpayer money and a more favorable restructuring of the initial $60 billion loan. What this means is that U.S. taxpayers have now invested $150 billion in an insurance company that got itself into trouble by misjudging the risk of guaranteeing loans on derivatives.   Meanwhile, America's automotive industry with its 732,000 employees is gasping for air, and General Motors -- General Motors! -- apparently is on the verge of bankruptcy. Congressional Democrats and President-elect Obama want to throw the industry a lifeline in the form of immediate federal loans, which President Bush seems reluctant to do.   These are monumental decisions, funded by hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars, and it's not entirely clear that even Treasury Secretary Paulson knows which levers to pull first. In the case of AIG, the Treasury and Federal Reserve have stepped up three times in two months, lending $85 billion in September, an additional $37.8 billion in October and now, another $27 billion. Where's the bottom? Can this company be kept alive, or is the Treasury, in the words of University of Maryland economist Peter Morici, 'throwing good money after bad?' By contrast, it's easy to see the appeal of lending money to automakers. Loans would preserve jobs, both directly and indirectly, in the Big Three and among their network of suppliers, while buying time for the companies to develop the next generation of fuel-efficient and alt-fuel vehicles. It would also shore up America's greatest remaining manufacturing industry, heavily concentrated in such states as Michigan and Ohio, and preserve a tool the U.S. must use to achieve energy independence.   In other words, if it makes sense to throw $150 billion at an insurance company that woefully underestimated the financial risks it was taking, how is it not sensible to throw a much smaller amount to an industry that, by its own admission, must make up for its own squandered opportunities? At the very least, a far greater number of Americans would benefit directly and immediately from the federal automobile intervention.   That's not to say that the auto industry should emerge unscathed from the troubles swamping the U.S. economy. It's not obvious, for example, that saving Chrysler temporarily would ultimately benefit the industry. It may make more sense for Ford or General Motors to buy Jeep and the Dodge minivan lines, for example, than to yoke two struggling companies together.   Yet it's enormously risky to kiss off an entire industry that provides living-wage jobs and benefits to hundreds of thousands of Americans, not to mention billions of dollars in tax receipts to the government. How can we as a nation contemplate that?   These choices cannot be made principally by any one or two people, even if one of them is a skilled treasury secretary who spent a career on Wall Street. The nature of the choices demands active, urgent engagement by the outgoing president and both parties in Congress. There is no more business as usual. There is no usual. 
