LONDON (AFP) - Oil prices rebounded by more than two dollars, on Wednesday recovering some recent heavy losses, as the market firmed on the rescue of US insurer AIG and fresh violence in crude producer Nigeria. London's Brent North Sea crude for delivery in November rose 2.51 dollars to 91.73 dollars per barrel, after tumbling Tuesday to a seven-month low of 89.22. New York's main contract, light sweet crude for October delivery, regained 2.79 dollars to 93.94 on Wednesday. Oil plunged this week under 90 dollars per barrel amid turmoil on the financial markets which could spur lower energy demand, traders said. 'Prices recovered on the AIG bailout, while continuing supply disruptions in Nigeria provide support,' said Barclays Capital analysts in a note to clients. The US Federal Reserve on Tuesday announced an unprecedented rescue loan of up to 85 billion dollars to save insurance giant American International Group from bankruptcy in a financial crisis that grew out of the US subprime, or higher-risk, mortgage sector. The crisis has claimed two major victims this week. US investment bank Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy while another Wall Street firm, Merrill Lynch, was forced to sell itself to Bank of America for 50 billion dollars. Oil prices are down about 36 percent from record levels above 147 dollars in early July. Prices have fallen heavily on worries the global economy is slowing and causing a dent in energy demand. 'The market continued to grapple with concerns regarding liquidity and economic slowdown,' added Barclays Capital analysts. 'With the Fed agreeing to bail out insurance company AIG, some risks of a wider financial crisis were somewhat alleviated, providing some positive sentiment in the market. 'On more energy-specific news, the violence in Nigeria continues, with MEND confirming yet another attack on Shell.' Armed Nigerian militants who have declared an 'oil war' in the restive south of the country claimed Wednesday to have blown up a major pipeline in their latest attack on oil installations in the region. The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), the most prominent of the groups operating in the creeks and swamps of the Niger Delta, said it blew up a pipeline it believes is operated by Royal Dutch Shell and Italy's Agip. 'A very major trunk crude oil pipeline we believe may belong to both Agip and Shell has been blown up today... at about 9:30 am (0830 GMT)... at Rumuekpe, in Rivers state,' said MEND in a statement emailed to the media. The latest attack, a rare daylight one, was not immediately confirmed by the military deployed in the region. Hours earlier MEND reported having acted with a new ally to have which destroyed a Royal Dutch Shell oil flow station in the African nation's main producing region. Oil market traders were meanwhile awaiting publication of Wednesday's weekly update on American crude stockpiles from the US Department of Energy.
