with financials feeling more pain after overnight ratings downgrades for AIG threatened the survival of the U.S. insurance giant.The U.K. FTSE 100 index dropped 1.5%, or 76.70 points, to 5,127.50, heading back towards a three-year low of 5,071.10 recorded in July.Other European shares also fell in early trading and U.S. stock futures were pointing to a lackluster start following one of the worst sessions on Wall Street for years on Monday. See Monday's U.S. Market Snapshot.Overnight, Moody's Investors Services and Standard &amp;amp; Poor's downgraded their ratings on American International Group, a move that could threaten its survival. AIG lost more than 60% of its market value Monday as the giant insurer rushed to raise capital and stave off those ratings downgrades. See full story.Financials falling sharply for the second straight session in London included insurer Prudential , down 4.2%, mortgage bank HBOS , down 11.8%, banks that operate in the U.S. such as Royal Bank of Scotland , down 6.8% and banks that could be in line to make acquisitions, such as Barclays , down 6.5%. Barclays said Tuesday that it is in talks with bankrupt U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers over the acquisition of certain assets 'on terms that would be attractive to Barclays shareholders.' The statement followed a report in The Wall Street Journal that Lehman was in last-minute talks to sell large portions of itself to Barclays.The newspaper said at least 10,000 employees could move to Barclays as part of the deal, which would involve the broker-dealer operation and all of its divisions. Troubled assets, such as mortgage securities, would be left behind in the holding company, the report added.Energy companies such as Cairn Energy , down 9.1%, and natural gas producer BG Group , down 3.7%, were also under pressure as oil futures fell $3.15 to $92.56 a barrel.However, companies that are heavy fuel buyers, such as airline British Airways , up 3.2%, and companies that benefit when consumers have more money to spend, such as retailer Next , up 0.6%, were benefiting from lower oil prices.Outside the top index, shares in department store operator Debenhams jumped 7% after it said trading in August showed a marked improvement from July, but the U.K. retail sector continues to be adversely affected by wider economic concerns.Comparable sales in the fiscal year to Aug. 30 fell 0.9% and it expects pretax profit for the period to match market expectations.However, shares in recruitment firm Michael Page dropped 28.9% after Adecco , the Zurich human-resources-services provider, dropped its plan to bid for the firm. In a statement on Tuesday, Adecco said that while 'a combination with Michael Page could have benefited both companies and their respective shareholders ... the response from Michael Page and its advisers has indicated that a recommended transaction would not be achievable on terms satisfactory to Adecco.' Adecco had proposed a 400-pence-a-share takeover.
