CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--Commodity markets fell Monday as the U.S. credit crisis deepened, but many recovered their losses and some even ended with gains. Crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange led the downside, falling by 5.4% to %95.71 a barrel, down $5.47. Sugar prices were also down.ICE Futures U.S. October world sugar settled 22 points lower at 12.14 cents a pound, off the session low of 11.60. Copper also dropping, with the most-active December copper contract down 5.75 cents to settle at $3.1365 a pound on the Comex division of the Nymex.Commodity markets from crude oil to corn were down in early dealings, with only precious metals seeing gains on limited flight-to-quality buying.'When markets are teetering on the brink of financial Armageddon, it is hard to make the case for holding practically anything other than cash, and not surprisingly, we are seeing a broad retreat in most commodities,' MF Global analyst Edward Meir said in a research note.News that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) collapsed and has filed for bankruptcy protection, along with the dramatic buyout of brokerage giant Merrill Lynch (MER) by Bank of America Corp. (BAC), has shook investors from equities to commodities. Fresh concerns about insurance giant American International Group (AIG) are causing more strife in the markets, analysts said.AIG is trying to secure $40 billion from the Federal Reserve and is considering selling some of its major assets. But the losses were not sustained through the session as most markets curbed losses and some, like wheat and cocoa, ended with mild gains. Early pressure also came from dollar strength as some investors sought the buy the greenback on a flight-to-quality bid.'The dollar is up on the day - it's sort of steady - and I think if the dollar strengthens here it will have negative implications for commodity prices,' said Dave Rinehimer, director of Citi Futures Perspective at Citigroup Global Markets. 'The financial market situation is obviously the focus today, but all these markets have all of their own fundamentals to deal with too,' he said.The fact gold was able to hold its gains and even return to session highs gave some commodity markets support. December gold rose $22.50, or nearly 3%, to $787 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Short covering was also a factor in helping to pull commodity markets off their lows, they said.-By Debbie Carlson; Dow Jones Newswires; 312-750-4072; debbie.carlson@dowjones.com(Tom Sellen contributed to this article)
