LONDON (Reuters) - Oil rose $2 on Wednesday as concerns about U.S. fuel supply outweighed anxiety about the U.S. government's $700 billion plan to rescue the finance industry.U.S. crude traded up $2.00 to $108.61 a barrel by 6:21 a.m. EDT, while London Brent crude gained $1.80 to trade at $104.88 a barrel.Weekly U.S. government inventory data due later on Wednesday is expected to show that crude stocks fell by 2 million barrels -- the fifth consecutive week of declines -- due to disruptions caused by Hurricane Ike, according to a Reuters poll. 'There could be some improved sentiment but I suspect people are largely being cautious ahead of the release of the EIA data and don't want to be caught short,' said David Moore, a commodities analyst at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.Energy firms continued to work to restart production, refineries and pipelines after Ike battered U.S. oil infrastructure earlier this month. Six oil refineries in Texas remained shut on Tuesday due to the hurricane.The disruptions have also drawn down fuel stockpiles, with analysts forecasting data will show a 1.5 million barrel drop in distillate stocks. Gasoline stocks are expected to have dropped by 4 million barrels as Hurricane Ike forced the shut-down of Gulf Coast refineries.Additional support came as tanker tracker Petrologistics said OPEC oil supply fell by 800,000 barrels per day (bpd) in September.ECONOMIC WORRIESOil prices have dropped from a record peak over $147 a barrel, struck in July, as high fuel prices and mounting economic problems curb demand in the United States and other top consumers.Fears the crisis in the financial sector could tip the global economy into recession has also weighed on oil and other markets as well, as investors shed exposure to commodities for safer havens.World stocks gained on Wednesday and safe-haven government bonds rose after Warren Buffett's investment in Goldman Sachs failed to calm anxiety over the prospects for Washington's bank bailout scheme.
