bouncing from its 2.5 per cent decline a day earlier, as forecast of a drop in US crude stocks more than offset doubts about the US government's financial rescue plan. A dip in the US dollar as well as renewed confidence from Warren Buffett's surprise $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs lent support to oil prices. US light crude for November delivery rose $1.72 or 1.6 per cent to $108.33 a barrel by 0740 GMT, after settling down $2.76 at $106.61 on Tuesday. London Brent crude rose $1.62 or 1.6 per cent to $104.70. 'There could be some improved sentiment but I suspect people are largely being cautious ahead of the release of the EIA data and don't want to be caught short,' said David Moore, a commodities analyst at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. A Reuters poll of analysts ahead of weekly US government inventory data due later on Wednesday forecast that crude stocks fell for the fifth consecutive week due to disruptions caused by Ike. Distillate stocks were forecast to have fallen by 1.5 million barrels, with gasoline stocks expected to have dropped for the ninth straight week by 4 million barrels after Ike shut Gulf Coast refineries, according to a Reuters poll of analysts. The losses on Tuesday followed a record surge of nearly 16 per cent in the now-expired US October crude contract on Monday. The US Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it was reviewing the price jump to ensure trading was valid. A slow recovery in oil and gas production in US Gulf of Mexico, home to a quarter of US output, also lent support to prices. Energy firms continued to work on restarting production, refineries and pipelines after Hurricane Ike battered US oil infrastructure. But nearly 70 per cent of production remains closed in the Gulf of Mexico. Oil jumped nearly 7 per cent on Friday to cap its biggest three-day rally in a decade on expectations a $700 billion US government bailout plan would put an end to the global financial crisis and support demand in the world's top energy consumer. But the initial euphoria has given way to doubts amid concerns that political resistance could delay the rescue package. Oil has gained 11.4 per cent so far this year on geopolitical tensions between Iran and the West, supply disruptions in Nigeria and falling US dollar, but is still 27 per cent below the record price over $147 it hit in mid-July. The dollar inched down against the euro and trimmed gains versus the yen on uncertainty about the effectiveness of the US bailout plan.
