LONDON (MarketWatch) -- London shares fell to three-year lows on Tuesday, with financials feeling more pain after overnight ratings downgrades for AIG threatened the survival of the U.S. insurance giant and as U.K. rate cuts looked uncertain in the short-term. The U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) dropped 2.7%, or 137.80 points, to 5,066.40, a level not seen for three years. On Monday, the index slumped 3.9%. Other European shares also fell and U.S. stock futures were pointing to a lackluster start following one of the worst sessions on Wall Street for years on Monday.  AIG (AIG:AIGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) lost more than 60% of its market value on Monday as the giant insurer rushed to raise capital and stave off ratings downgrades. However, Moody's Investors Services and Standard &amp;amp; Poor's downgraded their ratings on American International Group overnight.  Markets are on alert for results from Goldman Sachs and a possible interest-rate cut from the U.S. Federal Reserve. See Indications. Financials down again Mortgage bank HBOS (UK:HBOS: news, chart, profile) , down 31%, was once more the biggest decliner as investors fretted about funding. The bank said that it continues to fund satisfactorily in wholesale markets, Dow Jones Newswires reported. HBOS shares fell sharply on Monday. 'We believe yesterday's sharp fall in HBOS's stock price was driven by reports that HBOS has more than 110 billion pounds of debt refinancing to face in the next three months,' said Alex Potter, analyst at Collins Stewart. However, Potter said that these reports refer to the firm's gross position and the net position is far smaller. 'We do not believe that HBOS has a liquidity issue,' he said. Other banks trading lower included lenders operating in the U.S. such as Royal Bank of Scotland (UK:RBS: news, chart, profile) , down 11.6% and banks that could be in line to make acquisitions, such as Barclays (BCS:BCSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BARC: news, chart, profile) , down 8.2%. Barclays said Tuesday that it is in talks with bankrupt U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers (LEH:LEHNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) over the acquisition of certain assets 'on terms that would be attractive to Barclays shareholders.' The latest round of bad news for the financial sector has led to further tensions in the money markets and the Bank of England said Tuesday it would inject another 20 billion pounds ($35.9 billion) into money markets through a two-day repo. And comments about inflation trends and economic growth from Bank of England governor Mervyn King in a letter to Chancellor Alistair Darling could have put an end to expectations for an imminent rate cut from the Bank of England. King said that consumer inflation will 'peak soon' at an annual rate near 5%, which is well above the Bank of England's target rate of 2% and higher than had been expected in June. A higher peak raises the risk that inflation may have an effect on other prices and costs, King said. For that reason the Monetary Policy Committee 'has become firmer in its belief that a period of muted economic growth is necessary to dampen pressures on prices and wages' and return inflation to the target rate, he wrote. The letter was required after data showed August consumer inflation rose 4.7%. 'Mervyn King's comments in his letter to the Chancellor are finely balanced, highlighting the fact that the timing of likely interest rate cuts by the Bank of England remains highly uncertain,' noted Howard Archer, economist at Global Insight. Oil futures fall Energy companies such as Cairn Energy (UK:CNE: news, chart, profile) , down 8.8%, and natural gas producer BG Group (UK:BG: news, chart, profile) , down 3.9%, were also under pressure as oil futures fell $2.51 to $93.20 a barrel. However, companies that are heavy fuel buyers, such as airline British Airways (UK:BAY: news, chart, profile) , up 3.1%, were benefiting from lower oil prices. Outside the top index, shares in department store operator Debenhams (UK:DEB: news, chart, profile) jumped 7.6% after it said trading in August showed a marked improvement from July, but the U.K. retail sector continues to be adversely affected by wider economic concerns. Comparable sales in the fiscal year to Aug. 30 fell 0.9% and it expects pretax profit for the period to match market expectations. However, shares in recruitment firm Michael Page (UK:MPI: news, chart, profile) dropped 25.4% to 240 pence after Adecco (CH:001213860: news, chart, profile) , the Zurich human-resources-services provider, dropped its plan to bid for the firm. Adecco had proposed a 400-pence-a-share takeover. Sarah Turner is a markets reporter for MarketWatch in London.FTSE 100 index down 2.7%; HBOS, RBS, Barclays drop
