(RTTNews) - Gold soared by more than 9% on Wednesday as traders turned to the precious metal as a safety outlet amid ongoing turmoil in the financial sector. December gold closed at $850.50 an ounce, up $70 for the session. The metal hit as high as $864.30 in intraday trading.The advance took gold to a monthly high and erased a lot of the sharp weakness the precious metal had seen in recent weeks. Gold climbed more than $110 off the multi-month low it saw last week.Gold gained as the U.S. dollar fell against the euro and yen as traders show concern the financial sector turmoil may not be done yet. The dollar's plunge followed the government bailout of insurance giant AIG (AIG). This came on the heels of weak earnings reports from Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley (MS), the only two remaining big investment banks on Wall Street following the departure of Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch as viable, independent companies..Gold's hedge appeal also got a slight boost as crude oil prices moved higher to pare some of the weakness from earlier this week. October crude oil climbed back above $95 a barrel after plunging to a multi-month low in recent days.On the economic front, a Department of Commerce report showed that housing starts fell 6.2 percent to an annual rate of 895,000 from the revised July estimate of 954,000. Economists had expected housing starts to fall to an annual rate of 950,000 from the 965,000 originally reported for the previous month.Separate data released on Wednesday showed that mortgage application volume jumped over 33 percent last week, soaring to its highest levels since early May. This came as people took advantage of as low mortgage rates, sparking a wave of refinancing.After the metal market closed on Tuesday, the Federal Open Market Committee announced it will keep its target for the federal funds rate at 2 percent. This followed similar decisions in June and August, as the Fed continues to hold rates steady following the sharp cuts that took place earlier in the year.The price of gold turned lower on a choppy trading session on Tuesday, adding $6.50. Gold had gained in the two previous sessions after ending a nine-session losing streak on Friday.
