(RTTNews) - Natural gas prices soared on Wednesday and reached its highest level in more than two weeks. October natural gas closed at $7.91 per million British thermal units, up 63.1 cents on the session. Prices touched as high as $7.989 earlier in the session.Traders are awaiting the natural gas inventory report from the Energy Information Administration. Analysts are looking for a build of about 50 billion cubic feet for the week ended Sept. 12. The data will give traders a look at the impact of the disruption from hurricanes Ike and Gustav.Oil surged on Wednesday and recouped much of a two-day slump that took prices to a multi-month low. Light sweet crude for October delivery ended the day at $97.16, up $6.01 on the session. Prices hit as high as $97.45 in afternoon trading.Traders considered Energy Information Administration data that showed a fourth straight drop in weekly inventories. Crude oil inventories decreased by 6.3 million barrels in the week ended Sept. 12. Experts were calling for a drop of about 3.5 million barrels. Meanwhile, motor gasoline inventories decreased by 3.3 million barrels last week, which was in-line with analysts' expectations.Trading took place as the U.S. dollar fell against the euro and sterling as traders show concern the financial sector turmoil may not be done yet. The dollar's plunge followed the government bailout of insurance giant AIG (AIG). This came on the heels of weak earnings reports from Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley (MS), the only two remaining big investment banks on Wall Street following the departure of Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch as viable, independent companies.Oil had dropped nearly $10 on Monday and Tuesday as troubles in the U.S. financial sector could reduce energy demand. On a long-term basis, oil has lost more than 35 percent from its record high of $147.27, reached on July 17.Gold soared by more than 9% on Wednesday as traders turned to the precious metal as a safety outlet amid the ongoing turmoil in the financial sector. December gold closed at $850.50 an ounce, up $70 for the session. The metal hit as high as $864.30 in intraday trading.Silver prices also soared by more than 11%. December silver surged about 16 cents to close at $11.68 an ounce.
