By Tom Polansek   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--U.S. wheat futures closed sharply higher and nearsession highs Wednesday on technical buying and short-covering as the marketsbounced from recent losses.  Chicago Board of Trade December wheat closed up 35 3/4 cents at $7.25 3/4 abushel. Kansas City Board of Trade December wheat jumped 27 cents to $7.61 1/2,and Minneapolis Grain Exchange December wheat rose 34 1/2 cents to $7.89 1/4.  The markets were due for a technical bounce after CBOT December wheat droppedmore than $2.70 from its Aug. 21 high to Tuesday's low, traders said.Commodities in general stabilized following the federal government's $85billion bailout of insurance giant American International Group (AIG).  Jitters about the health of the U.S. financial sector drove commodities lowerTuesday. But the government rescue of AIG 'took a little of that risk featureout of the market,' said John Kleist, analyst/broker for Allendale.  Ideas that wheat's recent price drop could stimulate world demand helpedsupport the rally, Kleist said. Demand could shift to the U.S. from the BlackSea if concerns about low quality wheat become more pronounced, he said.  Egypt's state-owned General Authority for Supply Commodities on Wednesdaysaid it bought 205,000 metric tons of wheat from Russia and Ukraine but nonefrom the U.S. There was talk that U.S. soft red wheat was about $25/ton tooexpensive because of freight costs, a trader said.   Kansas City Board of Trade  KCBT wheat opened higher and gains 'just kind of snowballed' in relativelylight volume, a floor trader said. Technical buying and strength in outsidemarkets helped give wheat a boost, he said.  'It was just kind of one of those deals where a lot of small buying justrallied it up, and there just weren't a lot of sales,' the KCBT trader said.'It just seemed real choppy again today and airy.'   Minneapolis Grain Exchange  Rallies in outside markets, including crude oil and gold, and weakness in theU.S. dollar supported wheat, a MGE floor trader said. The markets saw a 'littlebit of a commodity bounce' after commodities came under pressure Tuesday fromfinancial woes, he said.  Although MGE wheat closed solidly higher, traders said they are not convincedthe market has turned a corner. There is not much demand news out for wheat, aMGE trader said.  'I would like to see more U.S. wheat showing up on the global trade,' hesaid. 'Theoretically, we should be competitive now.'  The U.S. Department of Agriculture at 8:30 a.m. EDT Thursday will release itsweekly export sales report. U.S. wheat export sales for the week ended Sept. 11are expected to be 300,000 tons to 550,000 tons, analysts said.  -By Tom Polansek, Dow Jones Newswires; 312-341-5780;tom.polansek@dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-17-08 1527ET  Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.15:27 091708
