 By Jonathan SibunThe FTSE 100 staged its biggest one day rally on record today after the US Treasury unveiled an unprecedented plan to assume banks' toxic debts and global regulators outlawed the short-selling of financial stocks.The FTSE 100 climbed 431.31 points to 5,311.30, its biggest ever percentage gain, as financial commentators expressed hopes that the rally signalled the bottom for the global credit crisis - although some warned that the rally could be short-lived.In the US, the Dow Jones index climbed 448.63 to 11,468.32, continuing its biggest two day rally since 1970. France's CAC 40 rose 367.01 to 4,324.87 and the German Dax was up 326.11 at 6,189.53.Buoyed by news of the short-selling ban, financial stocks led markets higher. In the UK, Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS rose as much as 50pc in early trading.The rally left the FTSE down just 105 points on last Friday's close following a tumultuous week that has seen the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the bailout of insurance giant AIG and Lloyds TSB's rescue of rival mortgage lender HBOS.In New York the Treasury's bad debt lifeline led to fevered trading as investors closed out short positions and took advantage of the stock market rally. For the first time, more than 10bn shares were traded in a single day on the New York Stock Exchange.China's Shanghai Composite Index saw similar scenes. A promise by the Chinese government to shore up the faltering stock exchange sent the index up 9.5pc, with many shares hitting the 10pc daily limit on price increases.The surge came after an overnight announcement from the government that it would abolish stamp duty on share trading.In Russia the main RTA index rose 15.5pc and the Micex surged 23pc after being suspended earlier in the day after rising too quickly. The index suffered its sharpest falls in a decade earlier this week.Foreign exchange markets also reacted to the Treasury's plan. The pound, which hit a three week high against the dollar on Thursday, fell 0.94pc as the greenback surged on news of the bailout plan.There were early signs that the US Treasury's move was buoying confidence in the interbank lending market, which has been all but frozen since the collapse of Lehmans and AIG.The cost of borrowing dollars overnight fell from 3.84pc to 3.25pc while overnight sterling rates fell from 5.17pc to 4.75pc. Earlier this week following the collapse of AIG, overnight rates surged to over 10pc.However, rates in the longer term interbank lending market remained high. Three month dollar Libor rates rose marginally from 3.20pc to 3.21pc, while the sterling rate rose to 6pc from 5.97pc previously. 'This plan won't solve all the problems we have. What it will help is to encourage banks to pass on liquidity to each other, but you can see by the reaction in money markets that banks will only do this to a certain extent,' said Willem Sels, a credit strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort. 'What we really need is for banks to lend to corporates and consumers, and this plan doesn't address this.' Commentators warned that the increase in three month sterling rates - up 0.3pc in the week - would lead to higher mortgage rates for UK homeowners.While the Fed won applause for its bank debt plan, business leaders voiced concerns over UK regulators' handling of this week's events.Speaking to Radio 4's Today Programme, Keith Skeoch, chief executive of Standard Life, said the Bank of England had failed to be as 'proactive' as the Fed. 'The Bank... which is doing a pretty good job in controlling inflation, has been persistently - in the market's eyes - late to the party,' Mr Skeoch said. 'I think Mervyn King unfortunately must shoulder some of the blame. The bank needs to act in my opinion much more like a central bank than a monetary policy authority.' The stock market rally suggested investors were rediscovering their confidence, analysts said, but warned that Britain's economic problems were far from behind it.While data released on Thursday showed a surprising jump in retail sales in August, UK mortgage lending fell 12pc and public sector borrowing hit 10.4bn, the highest monthly figure since 1993. 'The economic numbers have not been good, with the exception of retail sales, and on the rates side the market is increasingly looking for a November interest rate cut,' said Allied Irish Banks economist Geraldine Concagh.
