LONDON (MarketWatch) -- European shares ended Monday with their fourth-worst sell-off of the year after Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy eroded confidence in financials around the globe and prompted another concerted central bank intervention in the money markets. The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index fell 3.5% to 270.69, led by massive declines in the financial sector, where insurers and banks each shed over 6%. Though financials led the decline, every sector closed in the red, and decliners outnumbered advancers by an overwhelming margin. U.S. stocks also suffered steep losses at the time of the European close. 'We've seen that large U.S. financial institutions can file for bankruptcy and not be supported by the Fed. Last week was a pretty rough week and I think that everyone knew that there needed to be a resolution by this past weekend. The fact that this resolution was bankruptcy is weighing negatively on markets all over,' said Hank Calenti, financial institutions credit analyst at RBC Capital Markets. 'There's a lot of uncertainty. It's fair to say that there's been a flight to quality. Risk aversion is back,' he added. Yields on 10-year German bonds fell 12 basis points to 4.48%. On a national level in Europe, the German DAX 30 index fell 2.7% to 6,064.16, the French CAC-40 index dropped 3.8% to 41,68.97 and the U.K. FTSE 100 index dropped 3.9% to 5,204.20. Central banks tried to calm investor nerves by showing they are willing to shore up money markets. The Federal Reserve said over the weekend that it will expand its lending facilities and take a wider array of securities, including equities, as collateral for loans. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England also announced measures to ease tensions in money markets. Financials led the sell off in Europe as Lehman's move to seek Chapter 11 protection from bankruptcy Monday heightened worries about counterparty exposure and further asset write-downs. 'We expect near-term weakness for the European banks as markets digest the systemic consequences of Lehman's failure,' said analysts at Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods. 'By region, we see certain European investment banks, U.K. banks and French and Belgium banks as most directly affected,' they added. U.K. mortgage bank HBOS was particularly hard-hit, falling 17.6% The Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods analysts said that, when looking at funding liquidity, they would avoid both HBOS and Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley . 'Both banks exited the first half of 2008 with deposit/loan ratios of around 57%,' the analysts noted. 'Furthermore, we believe the funding risk here will be compounded by credit risk as HBOS ends 2008 with around one-third of its mortgage book on loan-to-values of over 90% and Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley nearly half its book more than 90% loan-to-value,' analysts said. Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley shares fell 15.4%. French lender Natixis, fell 14.6% and UBS (UBS) declined 14.5% after a Swiss newspaper reported it will take a fresh $5 billion write-off. Shares of Barclays (BCS) , which considered a bid for Lehman Brothers, ended 9.8% lower. Collins Stewart analysts said that Lehman Brothers' plan to file for bankruptcy is a negative signal for Barclays even after the U.K. bank pulled out of deal talks. Collins Stewart said it sees the decision by Barclays not to proceed as a positive, but added the fact it considered a deal highlights management's 'apparent unwillingness to de-lever the balance sheet.' Adding to the financial-sector gloom were reports that insurance giant AIG (AIG) is set to announce major restructuring plans on Monday and has reportedly petitioned the Federal Reserve for a $40 billion bridge loan. Insurers were also performing poorly in Europe, with Swiss Re down 8.1%, Prudential (PUK) down 9.3% and AXA losing 8.5%. According to Lehman's bankruptcy filing, AXA is its largest shareholder, with 7.25% of outstanding shares. It wasn't all bad news in Europe. Shares in Ciba Holding jumped 28.1% to 48.68 francs after BASF offered to buy the firm for 50 Swiss francs a share, or 6.1 billion francs ($5.5 billion). Ciba had been struggling to grapple with rising costs and customer moves to low-cost regions. BASF shares fell 4.2%. Oppenheim analysts downgraded BASF to neutral from buy, citing a 'high' acquisition price as well as the antitrust implications that could lead to forced divestitures.
