Financial stocks continue their freefall Tuesday as traders await the FOMC decision on interest rates. Mondays huge declines came on news Lehman Brothers (LEH) was filing for bankruptcy and that Merrill Lynch (MER) was being purchased by Bank of America (BAC). The focus this morning is Goldman Sachs (GS) and AIG (AIG) with both stocks seeing large declines in early trading. The FOMC meeting this afternoon will get a lot of attention as traders look to the Fed to see what they feel is necessary to overcome these current problems.  GS reported earnings before the bell the dropped 70 percent from the previous year, but the financial company did report of profit of $1.18 a share. Yes, this was well below expectations of $1.71, but at least Goldman is seeing profits. Nonetheless, GS shares fell 14 percent on Monday and are down another 11 percent in early trading Tuesday to a price of $119. GS shares are trading at half their 52-week high, which has taken nearly $50 billion in market cap in the past year.Insurance giant AIG continues to be a focus of traders as the company tries to find capital. The company did secure $20 billion in capital from the state of New York, but would like to find at least $20 billion more. The insurer has lost $18 billion in the last three quarters due to guarantees it wrote on mortgage-linked derivatives. The fact is that AIG is huge, having more than a trillion dollars in assets and employing more than 100,000 people. On Monday, the company had its credit rating cut at both Standard &amp;amp; Poors and Moodys, which makes it even more difficult to secure financing. The stock is trading near $2.50 a share, down another 50 percent in early trading. The general feeling is that some solution will be figured out with the Fed asking JP Morgan (JPM) and Goldman to look at a possible $70 billion in loans to support AIG.The FOMC meeting this afternoon could result in rate cuts with inflation worries taking a back seat to the problems in the financial markets. Consumer prices fell an as expected 0.1 percent in August with the core rate up 0.2 percent. Oil prices are down sharply again Tuesday on a gloomy economic outlook with the commodity off nearly five dollars a barrel to a price close to $91. Fed fund futures are pricing in more than a 50 percent chance of at least a 25-basis point cut when the committee releases its statement at 2:15 ET.Jody OsborneSenior Writer &amp;amp; Options StrategistOptionetics.com ~ Your Options Education SiteVisit Jody's Forum
