United States -  * Dollar falls on worries about bailout plan* Euro and sterling hit three-week highs* More details of $700 billion bailout plan awaited(Recasts, updates prices, adds comment, changes byline, dateline; previous LONDON)NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar weakened broadly on Monday as the U.S. government's $700 billion bailout plan aimed at easing a global credit crisis raised renewed concerns about the country's massive budget deficit.The package, which is awaiting Congressional approval, would give sweeping powers to the U.S. Treasury to buy mortgage-related bad debts from financial firms, including U.S. subsidiaries of foreign banks.Analysts say foreign investors will be increasingly reluctant to finance the growing U.S. deficit at the current dollar exchange rate and funding that gap would require higher interest rates and a weaker greenback.The Congressional Budget Office has forecast a record U.S. budget deficit of about $438 billion in the next fiscal year, excluding the cost of the bailout. The rescue package is expected to raise the debt ceiling by 6.6 percent.'There is uncertainty about the bailout plan, specifically what it means for America's deteriorating fiscal position,' said Omer Esiner, a senior market analyst, at Ruesch International in Washington.'This massive growing of debt that we are experiencing is definitely going to have an impact on the appeal of dollar assets. And the worsening fiscal position could ultimately undermine the U.S. dollar going forward.'In early New York trading, the dollar was down 0.7 percent on the day at 106.71 yen.The euro hit a three week high at $1.4625, and last traded at $1.4599, up 0.9 percent. The single currency slipped 0.3 percent to 155.79 yen.Sterling also benefited from dollar selling, hitting its highest in more than three weeks at $1.8473Analysts also said the latest market ructions sparked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers (nyse: LEH -  news  -  people ) last week and the $85 billion bailout of troubled insurance giant AIG (nyse: AIG -  news  -  people ) have prompted investors to focus on the U.S. economy.'The epicentre of the problem was the U.S. and markets seem to be re-focusing on that now ... until you get to a stage where the package starts to help the real economy,' said Geoff Kendrick, senior currency strategist at UBS (nyse: UBS -  news  -  people ).SWIFT ACTION ON THE BAILOUTDemocratic leaders in Congress have promised swift action and lawmakers are striving to get a plan in place by the end of the week, fearful a delay could send markets reeling.Some analysts lauded the government plan and said they believed that the U.S. Treasury had to act to prevent worsening turmoil in financial markets.'(The bailout) significantly improves the odds for a gradual stabilization and economic recovery ahead,' said Marco Annunziata, chief economist at UniCredit Markets &amp;amp; Investment Banking in London.'The huge size of the plan and its flexibility should reassure investors that the Treasury has both the firepower and the discretion needed to effectively address the problem. Its determination has already been proved beyond doubt.'He did acknowledge that the dollar could come under further pressure on concerns about the increase in public debt. But he said the improvement in the U.S. macroeconomic and financial outlook will dominate, supporting a moderate dollar strengthening over the next 15 months.Adding to the list of significant developments following the Lehman meltdown, Goldman Sachs (nyse: GS -  news  -  people ) and Morgan Stanley (nyse: MS -  news  -  people ) were granted approval on Sunday to become banking holding companies regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve, enabling them to take deposits and gain easier access to financing as they fight for survival amid the financial market turmoil. (Additional reporting by Veronica Brown; Editing by Tom Hals)Copyright 2008 Reuters, Click for RestrictionCompanies: LEH   AIG   UBS   GS   MS'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsRelated Business TopicsStarting A Small BusinessSmall Business LoansTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubBook ReviewBook ReviewKrystle M. DavisYes, waiters will sometimes spit in your food.
