Hong Kong -  * Gold rises 2 percent; dollar fall prompts rate cut talk* Oil tumbles below $100; Hurricane Ike's impact seen limited* Low Chinese inventories support copperSINGAPORE, Sept 15 (Reuters) - Commodity market diverged on Monday as mounting turmoil in the U.S. banking industry triggered safe-haven buying that lifted gold by more than 2 percent, but oil fell below $100 to six-month lows on signs Hurricane Ike spared key Gulf Coast oil infrastructure.As Lehman Brothers (nyse: LEH -  news  -  people ) filed for bankruptcy protection and Bank of America Corp (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people ) agreed to acquire Merrill Lynch (nyse: MER -  news  -  people ) for $50 billion, the dollar lost 2 percent against the yen, sparking talk of a U.S. rate cut and potentially triggering fresh investor demand for commodities.While copper and grains prices also cautiously extended gains from late last week, recovering from multi-month lows in some cases, traders said the rise was built more on supply threats or low stocks than the financial crisis.Gold led the sector, rising 2.5 percent or $18.70 to $782.15 an ounce at 0420 GMT from Friday's nominal close in New York. Prices were climbing from a second day, recovering from last Thursday's tumble to an 11-month low of $736.Silver gained 2.3 percent or 25 cents to $11.08.'Gold is on fire right now. There is a huge amount of nervousness about Merrill and Lehman. The financials are being hit really hard and things could get very interesting once U.S. markets open,' Peter McGuire, managing director of Commodity Warrants Australia said.As Lehman's saga reached a crescendo, traders feared other problems may still lurk on Wall Street. Insurance giant AIG (nyse: AIG -  news  -  people ) was reported to be seeking around $15 billion in extra capital to stave off ratings downgradesCRUDE OIL HOVERS BELOW $100Oil prices extended months-long slump, marking a one-third slide from their record high over $147 in July as weakness in the real economy and uncertainty in the financial markets curtails demand from both oil consumers and investors.The October delivery for U.S. light crude fell $2.12 lower at $99.06 a barrel by 0530 GMT. London Brent crude dropped $1.59 to $95.99.Oil firms rushed to their offshore facilities and coastal refineries to check for damage on Sunday after Hurricane Ike's direct hit on the Houston energy hub left a quarter of U.S. oil and refined fuel production idled and millions without power.Early reports indicated little or no severe damage to infrastructure -- signalling a possible quick recovery to production -- but firms warned that supply problems were likely in the near term.'The market is waiting for more news on the extent of the damage before making their next move,' said Gerard Burg, a commodities analyst at the National Australian Bank in Melbourne.'But the market will also be looking at the failure of talks to rescue Lehman as that might darken economic outlook and weaken energy consumption.'Copper nudged higher, adding to a 5 percent rally in the second half of last week, as a weak dollar and tight Chinese supply countered concerns about the wider market turmoil.London Metal Exchange copper rose 0.4 percent to $7,152 by 0629 GMT. It added 2.8 percent in the previous session.'The key to copper is that inventories in China are very low, although it is also easy to identify downside risks. The big one is pessimism across commodities markets,' said Yingxi Yu, analyst at Barclay's Capital.U.S. corn futures rose nearly 1 percent, after rising by the daily limit in the previous session, as investors stepped up buying following lower U.S. crop estimates.'We have had a full weekend of pretty crazy weather in the United States and now is the first opportunity to get in and start trading,' said John Reeve, associate director for agricultural commodities with UBS (nyse: UBS -  news  -  people ) AG in Singapore.'Bullish news from the USDA and another bout of adverse weather we think is supportive for corn and soybeans.'Copyright 2008 Reuters, Click for RestrictionCompanies: LEH   BAC   MER   AIG   UBS'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsRelated Business TopicsStarting A Small BusinessSmall Business LoansTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubBook ReviewBook ReviewKrystle M. DavisYes, waiters will sometimes spit in your food.
