U.S. stocks have received no respite this morning, as futures are trading sharply lower ahead of an interest-rate decision from the Federal Open Market Committee. There are growing expectations for a rate cut from the committee following recent market developments. Meanwhile, as traders brace for another rough session on Wall Street, Goldman Sachs (GS) and Best Buy (BBY) are on deck to release their quarterly earnings statements, while American International Group (AIG) was downgraded. In the tech sector, Dell (DELL) warned of softening demand, and Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) announced additional layoffs. Checking in on currencies and commodities, the U.S. Dollar Index is 0.12% lower in early trading, hovering near the 78.80 level. The weakness has not translated into strength for gold, however, as the malleable metal is off about 0.5% to $787 an ounce following yesterday's nearly 3% gain. Finally, crude-oil prices have extended yesterday's 5.5% plunge. At last check, the November contract was off 4.16% to trade at $91.72 per barrel. Adding fuel to crude's decline, OPEC lowered its forecast for world oil demand growth for 2008 to 1.02% from 1.17%. The cartel cited 'an unexpectedly strong decline in oil demand in North America' for today's adjustment.In equity news, Goldman Sachs (GS: sentiment, chart, options) reported that third-quarter earnings arrived at $1.81 per share on revenue that fell 36% to $13.62 billion. Analysts were looking for a profit of $1.71 per share.Elsewhere, A.M. Best downgraded American International Group's (AIG: sentiment, chart, options) domestic life and retirement services subsidiaries to A (Excellent) from A+ (Superior) because of a 'rapid deterioration' in the insurer's financial strength and flexibility. According to A.M. Best, 'AIG's lack of liquidity at the holding company level and management's need to secure funding options are not representative of financial stability and not reflective of AIG's current ratings.' In the tech sector, Hewlett-Packard (HPQ: sentiment, chart, options) announced that it will cut 24,600 jobs as part of its acquisition of Electronic Data Systems (EDS). The job cuts amount to about 7.5% of the combined company's total workforce. HPQ also said that it would take a one-time charge of $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter related to acquisition of EDS, and that it expects the restructuring to result in annual cost savings of $1.8 billion.Rival personal computer manufacturer Dell (DELL: sentiment, chart, options) had less cheery news. The company said it 'is seeing further softening in global end-user demand in the current quarter.' Dell also stated that it expects to incur further costs as it realigns its business, reduces headcount, and invests in infrastructure and acquisitions. Finally, Best Buy (BBY: sentiment, chart, options) reported that its second-quarter profit fell to $202 million, or 48 cents per share, from $250 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose to $9.8 billion from $8.75 billion. Same-store sales climbed 4.2%. The company affirmed its full-year profit forecast of $3.25 to $3.40 per share.Earnings PreviewOther companies slated to step into the earnings confessional today include: Kroger (KR), Adobe Systems (ADBE), and Darden Restaurants (DRI) amongst others. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.com throughout the day for more. Economic CalendarThe economic calendar offers up August's consumer price index (CPI) and the Federal Open Market Committee policy statement today. On Wednesday, the usual crude inventories report is slated for release, as well as the latest month's housing starts data. On Thursday, the Street will see the most recent initial jobless claims numbers, and August's leading indicators report. Friday will be quiet on the economic front, as there are no reports expected to hit the Street.Market StatisticsEquity option activity on the CBOE saw 1,356,650 call contracts traded on Monday, compared to 1,599,123 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio jumped to 1.18, while the 21-day moving average rose to 0.77. Overseas TradingOverseas trading is abysmal this morning, as all of the 11 foreign indices that we track are in negative territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a loss of 3.19%. In Asia, stocks were hammered by heavy selling pressure in the wake of Lehman Brothers' announcement that it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Many of Lehman's creditors led the decline. Oil-related companies were also hit hard, as Woodside Petroleum and Inpex Holdings led the sector's plunge as crude-oil prices slipped to the $92-a-barrel-level in Asian electronic trading. However, stocks in Japan, South Korea, and Hong Kong suffered the heaviest losses, as investors had their first chance to react to Lehman's news, the Merrill Lynch sale, and American International Group's (AIG) efforts to raise cash. Japanese, Chinese, South Korean, and Hong Kong markets were closed Monday for a holiday.Across the pond in Europe, stocks extended Monday's losses, with financials under more pressure after U.S. insurance giant AIG was downgraded by ratings agency Standard &amp;amp; Poor's. However, stocks traded off their lows of the session heading into the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee's interest-rate decision, with traders hoping for a cut from the committee. In equity action, French bank dropped 6.7% after noting that it has a net risk of Lehman's signature of 21 million euros, 34 million euros of mark-to-market exposure, 40 million euros of counter-guarantee exposure, and 14 million euros of counterparty risks. Meanwhile, Santander dropped 2.2% after announcing that it has direct exposure of 11 million euros to Lehman Brothers. Commodity CornerGold locked in gains for the second consecutive session on Monday. The December futures contract added $22.50, or 2.9%, to settle at $787 an ounce. The weakness of the financial sector lifted demand for the safe-haven investment. 'When other markets collapse, tangible assets historically have seen huge increases in value as people make a quick flight to quality,' said Donald Doyle Jr., chairman and CEO of asset investment firm Blanchard and Co.The yellow metal also saw a boost from weakness in the dollar. The greenback suffered its largest 1-day decline against the Japanese yen in 10 years, as investors sought to avoid risk. The dollar also dropped against the Swiss franc, as Switzerland's currency typically strengthens when traders look for low-risk investments. Among the other metals, silver for December delivery rose 3.1% to $11.14 an ounce, October platinum dropped 2.8% to $1,176.20 an ounce, and December palladium lost 2.7% to $238 an ounce. Copper for December delivery fell 1.6% to $3.14 a pound. On the other hand, crude-oil futures slumped to a 7-month low, while natural-gas futures finished slightly higher for the session. November crude closed at $95.69 per barrel, a loss of $5.56, or 5.49%, for the session. Unusual Put and Call Activity:For an explanation of how to use this information, check out our Education Center topics on Option Volume and . To read more of our analysis on the market's biggest stories, please visit our  section throughout the trading day. U.S. stocks trade lower ahead of Fed; Goldman Sachs (GS) and American International Group (AIG) in focus
