NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stocks tanked on Monday as Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy protection and Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. sold itself to Bank of America Corp., unnerving global markets and inciting further distress about other major financial firms. 'A Lehman bankruptcy is not like an airline bankruptcy, it's not like they can keep flying until they figure it out. Lehman is going away,' said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies &amp;amp; Co. After falling more than 340 points to its lowest level since July 15, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) was recently off 313.06 points, or 2.8%, to 11,108.93, with all but three of its 30 components trading in the red. American International Group Inc. (AIG) proved the heaviest weight on the blue-chip index, with shares of the insurance giant sliding 66.3%. AIG is reportedly seeking support from the Federal Reserve and is possibly in talks with billionaire Warren Buffett.. In addition to AIG, investors focused on Seattle-based thrift Washington Mutual Inc. (WM), which has entered talks with J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. (JPM), but no deal is in place. 'Why can't we get AIG and Washington Mutual taken care of? That is this week's business,' said Hogan. McDonald's Corp. (MCD) led the Dow's limited gains, with shares of the fast-food giant up 0.9%. The S&amp;amp;P 500 (SPX) shed 32.53 points, or 2.6%, to 1,219.17, with energy fronting the losses, which hit all 10 of the index's 10 industry groups.. Among the hard hit, shares of Sunoco Inc. (SUN) fell 14.6%. With two of the largest U.S. financial firms wiped from the landscape, financial stocks declined sharply, with the S&amp;amp;P sector off 5.5%.. The Nasdaq Composite (COMP) declined 40.56 points, or 1.8%, to 2,220.71. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange topped 588 million, with decliners racing past advancing issues 9 to 1. On the Nasdaq, more than 402 million shares exchanged hands, and for every stock gaining, four were declining. Shares of Lehman (LEH) were down 95.6% to 16 cents a share, with regulators and company officials moving to reassure individual investors that holdings in accounts at the investment bank would be protected as the company heads into bankruptcy.. 'More questions were left unanswered after the weekend, how does this Lehman bankruptcy affect the rest of the industry? We don't have answers for all the tricky questions that come up when somebody has $613 billion in debt and no market capitalization,' said Hogan. The Chapter 11 filing for bankruptcy protection ends the Wall Street firm's 158-year run and capped a weekend of negotiations in which potential acquirers backed away from a deal. 'The talks with Barclays and Bank of America broke down primarily because for the Federal government for the most part remained silent on aid. One it became apparent that if you wanted to buy Lehman, you did it pretty much off your own balance sheet, it quickly became less appealing,' said Kevin Giddis, managing director, Morgan Keegan &amp;amp; Co. Inc. In the face of the global financial storm, Merrill Lynch (MER) agreed to be bought by Bank of America Corp. (BAC) in an all-stock deal valued at $50 billion.. Shares of Merrill Lynch gained 20.2%, while those of Bank of America dropped 15.9%. The Lehman meltdown sparked a harsh reaction from one floor trader in Chicago. 'These supposedly sophisticated suits -- there isn't a commodity trader on the floor who would do what they did. Every trader knows it isn't what you make, it's what you don't lose,' said Lenny Pomerantz, a 30-year veteran of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Board of Trade. 'I am appalled that major financial institutions that are theoretically advising other investors and institutions on what to do to be financially stable would put themselves at such enormous risk by leveraging anywhere from 30 to 35 times. They went out on a limb without even knowing it was a twig,' said Pomerantz. The dollar declined the most against the Japanese yen in 10 years, but gained against the euro and the British pound on thinking the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates Tuesday. Treasury prices jumped, pushing yields down the most since September 2001. Interest-rate futures displayed a dramatic hike in bets that the Fed will cut its benchmark rate in coming months, with futures now showing a 17% chance that the central bank would cut its 2% borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point at its Tuesday meeting. Gold futures also rallied as Wall Street's troubles raised demand for safe-haven investments, with the contract for December delivery recently up $20.6, or 2.7%, to $785.1 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.. Oil futures tumbled to a seven-month low as key refineries in the Gulf of Mexico were spared major damage from Hurricane Ike, with crude for October delivery falling $4.68to $96.5 a barrel on Nymex. Economic data had the Fed reporting U.S. industrial output fell 1.1% in August, the largest drop since Hurricane Katrina three years ago, and far worse than the 0.3% predicted by analysts.. Separately, the New York Federal Reserve Bank reported manufacturing activity in the region declined earlier in the month, with the Empire State index falling to negative 7.4 in September from 2.8 in August.
