* Dollar pulled 1.1 percent lower versus yen* Euro, sterling both hit three-week highs* More details of $700 billion bailout plan awaited* Investors fretting over fiscal impact of US measures(Changes byline, adds quotes, update prices)LONDON, Sept 22 (Reuters) - The dollar dropped more than 1 percent versus the yen on Monday as sceptical investors sought the meat of a $700 billion U.S. bailout plan, aimed at tackling the worst credit crisis since the Great Depression.The package, which is awaiting Congressional approval, would give sweeping powers to the U.S. Treasury to buy up toxic mortgage-related debt from financial firms, including U.S. subsidiaries of foreign banks.Democratic leaders in Congress have promised swift action and lawmakers are striving to get a plan in place by the end of the week, fearful a delay could send markets reeling..But while the package has gone some way towards taking the edge off market jitters, significant questions remain over its impact on the U.S. fiscal position.'The Treasury will be able to fund this (bailout package) by extra Treasury sales and that's an extra burden on the U.S. fiscal position -- that's absolutely a dollar negative for the short and medium term,' said Geoff Kendrick, senior currency strategist at UBS (nyse: UBS -  news  -  people ).Analysts also said the latest market ructions sparked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers (nyse: LEH -  news  -  people ) last week and the $85 billion bailout of troubled insurance giant AIG (nyse: AIG -  news  -  people ) had succeeded in snapping investor attention back from global concerns to the U.S. economy.'The epicentre of the problem was the U.S. and markets seem to be re-focusing on that now ... until you get to a stage where the package starts to help the real economy,' Kendrick said.At 1120 GMT, the dollar was down 1.1 percent on the day at 106.18 yen, dropping from a near two-week high of 108.04 hit late last week.The euro rose 0.9 percent to a three week high at $1.4625, but was weaker against the yen, falling 0.3 percent to 154.96 yen. Sterling also benefited from dollar selling, hitting its highest in more than three weeks at $1.8473.U.S. stock index futures pointed to a lower Wall Street open, suggesting that U.S. share prices may give back some of the gains made in Friday's massive knee-jerk response to news of a U.S. bailout package.BETTER THAN NOTHING?Negative impact on the U.S. Treasury's balance sheet from the financial storm is mounting up at quite a pace, with the $200 billion bailout of troubled mortgage agencies Fannie Mae (nyse: FNM -  news  -  people ) and Freddie Mac (nyse: FRE -  news  -  people ) and co-ordinated money market liquidity injections adding to the burden.But even as questions such as at what price the U.S. authorities pay for toxic debts and when the buying will start remain unanswered, analysts say no immediate action at all would have worsened the financial market turmoil.'Despite concerns that a $700 billion fund to purchase assets from banks will crash the value of dollar, there are two points to bear in mind,' said Richard Jerram, economist at Macquarie Securities.' First, it is not very much money -- 5 percent of GDP -- and this is gross cost, not net. Second, it is cheaper than procrastination,' he added.Adding to the list of significant developments post the Lehman meltdown, Goldman Sachs (nyse: GS -  news  -  people ) and Morgan Stanley (nyse: MS -  news  -  people ) were granted approval on Sunday to become banking holding companies regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve, enabling them to take deposits and gain easier access to financing as they fight for survival amid the financial market turmoil. (Reporting by Veronica Brown; Editing by Chris Pizzey)Copyright 2008 Reuters, Click for RestrictionCompanies: UBS   LEH   AIG   FNM   FRERelated SectionsHome&gt; Breaking News'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsRelated Business TopicsStarting A Small BusinessSmall Business LoansTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubBook ReviewBook ReviewKrystle M. DavisYes, waiters will sometimes spit in your food.
