 Treasurys danced around then fell slightly Tuesday as speculation about a government bailout of American International Group and a Fed rate cut overshadowed continued nervousness on Wall Street.Early morning market jitters sent the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond to a five-year low. But then bonds slipped, sending the yield back up. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions. 'Basically, there's been a flight to quality in the market,' said Peter Cardillo, chief economist for Avalon Partners. 'We haven't seen yields this low in a long time.' Shortly after the stock market opened, the 10-year yield slid to 3.25%, the lowest level the benchmark has fallen to since June 2003. But then the 10-year note fell 7/32 to 104 28/32, and its yield rose to 3.41% from 3.40% late Monday. The 30-year bond fell 13/32 to 107 25/32, and its yield rose to 4.05% from 4.04%. The 2-year note fell 4/32 to 101 5/32, and its yield rose to 1.77% from 1.75%.Government bonds wavered a day after Treasurys soared on stocks' worst day in seven years. Equities held around the break-even point Tuesday as rumors of a government bailout of struggling insurance company AIG rallied positive sentiment.Many investors worried that Washington Mutual (WM, Fortune 500) and AIG (AIG, Fortune 500) could suffer the same fate as Lehman Brothers (LEH, Fortune 500), which filed for bankruptcy early Monday morning. But as talk began to circulate late Tuesday morning that the Federal Reserve could inject AIG with much needed cash, stock losses were tempered and bonds fell. 'Obviously the financial turmoil has pushed yields around, but the possibility of a government bailout of AIG helped stabilize the equity markets a bit,' said Scott Anderson, senior economists with Wells Fargo. 'That led to a bit of a draw back in the bond market.' Bond investors were also preparing for news from the Federal Reserve meeting Tuesday, as its interest-rate setting Federal Open Markets Committee will decide whether to hold rates steady or cut them to boost liquidity in the markets.Before Monday's market meltdown, economists had widely expected the central bank to hold the Fed funds rate steady at 2%. But many analysts now believe the committee will make a cut of at least a quarter-percentage point.Rate cuts tend to weigh on the bond market, as they drive inflation higher, weakening the dollar. 'If the Fed cuts rates, that may temper the flight to quality,' Anderson said. 
