 A major researcher says the exposure of Japanese banks to Lehman Brothers, which collapsed earlier this week, total about 310 billion yen ($3 billion). The worst hit among the major banks is Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group with 103.4 billion yen ($990 million) in exposure to Lehman, mostly in loans, according to Shinichi Ina at Credit Suisse in Tokyo.TOKYO - The Associated PressBTG to buy Protherics for $390 mln BTG has agreed to buy Protherics for around 218 million pounds ($388 million) in an all-share deal, the companies said yesterday, marking the further consolidation of Britain's biotech sector. The deal would create a new UK biotech champion that is expected to enter the FTSE 250 index. Protherics first announced last month that it had received several bid approaches.LONDON - ReutersToshiba to slip into operating loss Japan's Toshiba will likely post an operating loss in the first half and significantly downgrade full-year forecasts as its chip business deteriorates, a report said yesterday. A global slowdown is weakening demand for Toshiba's chips used in home electronics. The electrical giant expects to suffer an operating loss of some 30 billion yen ($290 million) in the six months to September.TOKYO - Agence France-PresseHundreds throng AIG Singapore office For the second day hundreds of anxious policyholders lined up in the hot sun outside the Singapore offices of global insurance giant American International Group (AIG) yesterday, despite a U.S. government bailout of the firm. Hundreds more - some vowing to terminate their policies - were already inside the offices of AIG and its wholly-owned subsidiary, American International Assurance Company Limited (AIA). SINGAPORE - Agence France-PresseMacquarie shares plunge by record Macquarie Group, Australia's largest investment bank, plunged by a record in Sydney trading, on concern the global credit crisis will affect its ability to repay debt. Macquarie fell 18 percent and Babcock &amp;amp; Brown, the nation's second-biggest investment company, slumped 23 percent. The market is worried about a domino effect in the financial sector, with no one sure who's going to fall next, said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based investment strategist.MELBOURNE - BloombergDanish central bank revises growth forecast The Danish central bank yesterday revised downwards its 2008 growth forecast from 1.9 percent predicted in March to 0.9 percent, saying the economic slowdown had come sooner than expected. 'The Danish economy is rapidly slowing down. Economic indicators have in recent months indicated this. The slowdown has come a little sooner than we expected,' the bank said. COPENHAGEN - Agence France-Presse
