Zurich, (News/Aktienkurs) a leading property and casualty insurance provider in North America and globally, today announced the appointment of Brad Gow to head the Specialty Errors&amp;Omissions (E&amp;O) group of its Specialties business unit.   In this role, Gow will head a nationwide team in delivering professional liability protection to markets including engineering, media, technology, real estate and specified professions. Gow will also be integral to the development and launch of new products and services to address emerging E&amp;O exposures, such as security and privacy risks. Brad's experience in network security and technology E&amp;O brings our customers a deep level of insight into the risks that are becoming increasingly troubling to so many professionals," said Seraina Maag, president of Zurich's Specialties business unit.   Marcia Munn, executive vice president of Specialties' Professional Liability group said, Brad's strong broker relationships coupled with his technical background are a solid contribution to Zurich's offerings in the Professional Liability market space, furthering our commitment to providing the products and services our markets need." Gow brings 20 years of insurance industry experience to Zurich. Most recently, he was vice president of Professional Liability product management with ACE Insurance, where he developed a line of technology E&amp;O and network risk products. Before joining ACE, Gow was co-founder of NetDiligence, a venture capital-backed network security and privacy consulting firm focused on the needs of network risk underwriters. Between 1992 and 2000, Gow held a variety of positions with CIGNA, including international roles in Tokyo and Bangkok. He began his insurance career at AIG in 1989.   Recognized for his knowledge of network liability risks, Gow has been a frequent commentator on privacy, network risk, technology E&amp;O and product development topics. Gow said, New technologies and media create significant liability exposure for today's professionals. My goal is not simply to keep up with the risks our customers face today, but to anticipate emerging risks and develop solutions to address them." Gow is a graduate of Hamilton College, Clinton, NY and earned his Master's degree in International Business at the University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC. Zurich's Professional Liability group is a nationwide team that develops and markets Zurich's portfolio of medical and non-medical Professional Liability products, including Specialty E&amp;O, Healthcare Professional Liability and Captive Agents E&amp;O.   About Zurich Zurich's North America Commercial and Global Corporate in North America business divisions are part of Zurich Financial Services Group (Zurich), an insurance-based financial services provider with a global network of subsidiaries and offices in North America and Europe as well as in Asia Pacific, Latin America and other markets. Founded in 1872, the Group is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. It employs approximately 60,000 people serving customers in more than 170 countries. In North America, Zurich (www.zurichna.com) is a leading commercial property-casualty insurance provider serving the global corporate, large corporate, middle market, specialties and programs sectors.   Contacts:  Media contact:  Steve McKay  Zurich  (847) 706-2265  steven.mckay@zurichna.com 
