         In the annual report, Buffett said:  Americas best days lie ahead.   I hope that is true.  He also stated:  Were certain, for example, that the economy will be in shambles throughout 2009  and, for that matter, probably well beyond.  I fear that is true.  It will certainly be true as long as its producers are devalued and demonized.  As for me, I have gone to ground; that seems to be the wisest course.    However, outside stupid actions in Washington, there is no reason why we cant escape this recession.  Restoration of all our crippled institutions is not a requirement.  Freddie, Fannie, AIG, Citi, Bank of America?  Work around them.  Bad home mortgages?  Though very large, there is a limited number of them.  Work around those also.  But, you cant go to ground and do that.  It requires someone to expand and assume risk.  However, as long taxes are being increased on initiative and subsidies are being expanded for failure; why would you?  Join the majority of investors and go to ground; it is much safer there.    It is not just taxpayers who are in revolution, it is investors also.  They correctly understand the situation.  They fear that Herbert Hoover has been reincarnated and is alive, well and residing in the White House.  And they may well be right.  Investors hold to this old-fashioned belief that higher taxes, higher spending and bigger government debt are net destroyers of wealth, not net creators.  Fancy such silliness!   As long as the solution is to tax and spend rather than grow and produce, Buffetts fear of more years of economic shambles will probably be realized.  Me, I am just going to own the good stuff: Berkshire, Kellogg, PepsiCo, Martin Marietta Materials, cash, highly rated bonds  things like that.  If and when I hear an all clear siren in Washington, I will crawl out of the cellar.  My guess is this is what most businesses are doing also, especially the small ones.    I propose a project for some of the monies allocated in the Stimulus bill.  We should build an exact replica of the Eiffel Tower next to the Gateway Arch in St. Louis.  Americas past juxtaposed with the threat of Americas future.  Peacefully contemplate the view, then decide which way you want to go.                  
