ARE we witnessing the demise of the American economic empire, the model that has served us for more than three generations?  The Chinese yuan is replacing the US dollar as the trading currency in markets all over the world. American banks and insurance giants are no longer the monoliths of stability they were once deemed to be and Wall Street may never be trusted again.  In London last night, US President Barack Obama and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown spoke frankly and in detail about the economic woes besetting their nations and the length of time that it might take to recover.  Both world leaders looked burdened by the 'unprecedented' recession.  But they are also embattled by a splintering of ranks. The French and the Germans have already said they will not bow to false compromises or hollow promises coming out of the G20 summit.  Once the Americans could lead and expect the rest of the world to follow. Indeed, for many years they led not even caring if they were followed, such was their economic might and independence.  But the globe has entered a new period of economic and political turmoil: nations outside the Western sphere are seeking to create a new order.  Brazil's President Lula da Silva has blamed the world economic crisis on 'white people with blue eyes' and questioned why poor countries should have to suffer because of the mistakes of the rich.  Mr da Silva has said South America is key to achieving an agreement at the G20 summit because its emerging economies are still strong and Latin American trade has been growing -- a point Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has been urged to bear in mind, given he pledged to elevate relations with Latin America yet cancelled two trips to South America in the past six months.  Latin America is emerging as a player in undermining the power of the US in global finances, with Argentina and China announcing a deal on Tuesday allowing Argentine businesses to buy Chinese imports directly in Chinese yuan, bypassing the usual procedure of conducting international trade in US dollars.  Beijing has struck similar deals with South Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, driving an expectation that Asia will become a 'yuan bloc'.  The Reserve Bank of Australia says this country will remain one of the better performing economies in the developed world and well placed to benefit from renewed global expansion when it occurs.  It also suggests China's economy could be a key factor in a turnaround. Geographically, Australia is close to Asia. Culturally, we remain very much a part of the Anglo-American bloc.  If the slide continues, our nation will have to review its strategies and might have to consider economic and trade ties.  The OECD, which fears a worldwide recession will put at least 25 million people in developed countries out of work, has urged governments attending the G20 summit to do more to revive their economies.  Whatever unfolds in London, we have to hope for a solution, as dark days are surely looming.  
