THE last time the Victorian Rugby Union was in the hunt for a Super rugby expansion franchise, back in 2004, it held one of its legendary Weary Dunlop lunches shortly before the Australian Rugby Union named its winning candidate.  Some 1100 people packed into the largest function room at the Crown Casino. Well-heeled people evidently because, once there, they were asked if they would each pledge $1000 to help get the expected new Super 14 team up and running.   Of the 1100, 745 filled in the form, providing their credit card details. Literally in one sitting, the VRU was promised $745,000. Then, of course, the ARU announced Perth as the winner.   VRU president Gary Gray has always felt like he was left standing at the altar when the ARU went west with its new franchise. The temptation for him to toss in the bin every single reminder of that ill-starred romance must have been almost overwhelming but thankfully he resisted the urge. And yesterday, he dusted off the folder and started going through those 745 names.   Rest easy if yours is one of them. Financially, times have changed and Gray has no plans to call in old markers. But he also knows there is a deep well of support in Victoria for a Melbourne Super rugby team and sensibly, having been jilted once, he is leaving nothing to chance now that SANZAR has decided its 15th franchise will play in the Australian conference from 2011. Melbourne might be the front-runner, but then it's been there before and lost.   So if there are any among the 745 faithful who can assist Melbourne's 'second chance' cause, Gray intends enlisting them for the battle ahead. Significantly, ARU boss John O'Neill this week reaffirmed his organisation's preparedness to work with private equity consortiums, so it may well be that VRU folder will be the starting point for a historic new venture in Australian rugby. Still, most of the heavy hitting this time is going to be done by the Victorian Government. Outwardly, the Government is saying and doing all the diplomatic things. But behind the scenes it is making it quite clear it doesn't want to be - as one source put it - 'dicked around again' by the ARU. It is in the final stages of building the elegant and elegantly titled 30,000-seat Melbourne Rectangular Stadium at a modest cost of $270 million. So , it wants a Melbourne rugby team playing a minimum of nine home games there a year - more if it makes the play-offs - and sharing tenancy with the Melbourne Storm NRL side and the A-League's Melbourne Victory.   Gray already has held preliminary talks with the league and soccer franchises about what cost-saving synergies they can come up with. But as helpful as the Storm have been, the realisation might soon dawn that an elite Melbourne rugby team could be seriously bad news for them.   It's hard to estimate how much of the Storm supporter base is made up of ex-pats from Britain, New Zealand, South Africa and the south Pacific, but it's safe to say it's a fair swag. All of those places are rugby strongholds and while their ex-pats may have been happy to go along to Storm matches to get their rugby 'hit', will they continue to do so when they have a real rugby union team to follow?   Of course, that's only the tip of the iceberg in terms of the impact a fifth Super rugby franchise in this country will have on rugby league. If the NRL is in a flap now over Japanese and French rugby raids on its stars, it must be dreading the arrival of an extra Super 15 team. It's not just that the NRL will lose more players to union. It's also that rugby's insatiable demand for players will increase pressure on league's salary cap.   Rugby officials are hardly going to lose sleep over the problems a Melbourne-based Super 15 team might cause for the NRL. Certainly league officials over a century didn't seem wracked by any corresponding guilt for all the damage they inflicted on union.   But if Melbourne was to win the licence, it could also spell serious trouble ahead for one of Australia's existing Super rugby franchises. The ACT Rugby Union has never publicly given oxygen to media speculation about the Brumbies one day being forced to relocate to Melbourne. Understandably, it didn't want to spook its supporters in Canberra.   Melbourne was always there, though, in the shadows as the fall-back option. If Melbourne wins the fifth licence, however, that option disappears, leaving the Brumbies relying entirely on a Canberra marketplace already struggling to sustain them. Matt Giteau might keep the wolves away for a while, but he can't hold them off forever.   Now, before Melbourne or anyone else gets ahead of themselves, there's need for a cautionary word. SANZAR, in its best - or worst - UN Security Council impersonation, couldn't quite bring itself to announce that the 15th Super rugby team would be Australian, instead compromising with the mealy-mouthed resolution that the new franchise would play out of the Australian conference.   This opens up the quite bizarre prospect, quickly put on the notice paper by the South African Rugby Union, that South Africa might lobby for the expansion licence to be granted to its Eastern Cape province. Precisely how a South African provincial side could play in the Australian conference is almost too bizarre to consider. But, this being a South African proposal, you ain't even seen bizarre yet.   The plan is for Eastern Cape - or the Southern Kings as they are being marketed - to be an all-black team, which seems fair enough given that South Africa's five other Super rugby franchises all are predominately white. Yet didn't the South African Government just raise a stink over the Springboks playing the NZ   Maoris in a warm-up to the British and Irish Lions series because the Maoris are selected on the basis of race?   Assuming sanity prevails, the choice of location for the expansion franchise is expected to come down to Melbourne, western Sydney, Gosford, Newcastle and the Gold Coast.   Scrub the Gold Coast pretty much straight away. The Queensland Rugby Union's sponsorships, based around a solitary team, the Reds, are down by 15 per cent, according to QRU chief executive Ken Freer. But that's off the field, and a reflection of the broader economic situation.   On the field, Freer sees it differently. 'From Queensland rugby's point of view, we feel we have some real momentum building. But if you put a second Super 15 team in Queensland, that would potentially detract from that momentum.' The Reds' major sponsor, Queensland Rail, probably wouldn't have a problem with a Gold Coast team.   Presumably it would boost traffic both ways on the Brisbane-Robina line so maybe it could live with the divided loyalties. Besides, right now the Queensland Government can do with all the new businesses it can attract to the state.   Interestingly and surprisingly, the Waratahs' major sponsor apparently feels the same way about sharing the marketplace, with HSBC's head of marketing and group communications Darren Friedlander, assuring The Weekend Australian yesterday there is no truth to rumours that HSBC will be mightily miffed if the NSW fan base suddenly is split between the Tahs and a Parramatta, Gosford or Newcastle-based team. 'HSBC receives great branding benefit in being the naming rights sponsor in a one-team town,' Friedlander said in a prepared statement. 'However we applaud any initiatives that will grow the rugby union franchise in Australia or internationally.' That's good to know and to keep in mind, especially on the day the CBA or NAB-sponsored Parramatta/Gosford/Newcastle team runs out to play the HSBC Tahs.   There are any number of known unknowns and unknown unknowns about the race for the new licence.   But there is one known known. Whatever happens, the ARU will ensure that a formidable rival to Melbourne emerges over the coming weeks.   Can't have an auction if there's only one bidder, can we? 
