A coastguard volunteer badly injured when a boat smashed into rocks in a storm while on a rescue mission is itching to get back to sea.  Colin Brickell and Tutukaka Coastguard skipper Mike Podesta, 50, remain in hospital in Auckland after last week's collision off the Northland coast which they searched for a yacht in trouble.  The impact threw all five crew members forward. Mr Brickell lost most of his teeth and had part of his palate shattered and Mr Podesta later had an eye removed.  Three crew members were airlifted off the badly damaged, nine metre rescue boat by rescue helicopter. The helicopter later returned to airlift the other two crew members off and they were treated for their injuries.  The yacht the crew were searching for was eventually escorted to safety by another coastguard boat.  An appeal has been launched for the injured men who may be left out of pocket as a result of the incident.  Ray Burge, Coastguard Northern Region operations manager, said Mr Brickell was keen to get back to his coastguard duties as soon as possible. 'He can't wait to get back out there. 'He would be ready to hop back on the thing (the boat) and be ready to go right now. That is the spirit of the guy and the nature of Colin.' Mr Burge said both men had displayed a lot of guts. 'It is a huge commitment these volunteers make.' Mr Brickell is understood to be facing up to two years of treatment for his shattered palate, lost teeth and facial reconstruction. Mr Burge said both men had been humbled by the support they had received.  Maritime New Zealand and the coastguard are investigating but Joe Davis, president of the Coastguard Northern Region, said such incidents were extremely rare. 'However, it really brings home the remarkable commitment made by every one of our brave volunteers, putting themselves on the line to save lives at sea.' Donations can be made to an account at the ASB Bank 12 3047 0089907 00 with 'Tutukaka' specified or by telephone credit card donations on (09) 303 4303 during working hours.  - NZPA
