Hey all, Beep (Lauren Ebsary) n Fez (Rene Farrell) with the inside scoop on the Commonwealth Bank Southern Stars during the ICC Womens World Cup.  Clearly the two funniest and best looking people in the team have been asked to do this!  To kick off our World Cup preparations, we travelled in Kevin 07 territory, Canberra, to make use of the $2 million recovery centre and training facilities at the Australian Institute of Sport for a few days.  We experienced a rare opportunity as a group to be guided through the Australian War Memorial. It was one of the most heart felt memories that will stay with us for a long time to come after this tour.  From Canberra we travelled up to Sydney where we are now based. After six days, weve rubbed shoulders and had contact with some of Australias greats, dont want to name drop or anything but were going to!! So far we have mixed with the likes of the Governor General Quentin Bryce, Ian Healy, Steve Waugh, Kate Ellis, Roxy Pro girls  Steph Gillmore, Lane Beachley, and Matt Hayden just to name a few!!  The World Cups Opening Ceremony kicked off with all eight teams walking down from the tournament hotel in their finest for a photo on the Opera House steps. Then we took a ferry ride to Luna Park for the official proceedings where all the girls got to walk the red carpet. Some of the girls love the glitz and glamour and really enjoyed the opportunity to swap our sneakers and tracky pants for our flight attendant-like suits and scarfs for the evening.  There was quiet a bit of preparation that went into the night to get ourselves looking the part which included the hair, makeup, heels, bronzer:  Money spent on hair $80 (or for me $260!!!!! Ripped off!! That is wrong Sydney, WRONG! That was only  head of foils  imagine what full head of foils is....)  Make up $50  Heels for the suit $100  Time to straighten hair 2 hrs  Heels getting caught in the Luna Park jetty, just inches away from the red carpet and paparazzi snaps, nearly ripping off toes as your heels are stuck in the jetty - PRICELESS.......  We are all looking forward playing some cricket against the Kiwis today. Bring it!!!  Beep n Fez  
