Ive always wondered why people choose to study in the UK. Dont get me wrong, Im so proud to be British its sickening to observe, and Id quite happily extol the merits of our dear motherland to any passing unfortunate until they run away screaming.  However, we must consider that the popular English stereotype to those abroad seems to be someone in serious need of dental work with severe sexual repression issues, content with a land where its always raining. With this in mind, Im both impressed and surprised when anyone battles through the wall of governmental bureaucracy to study in the country that invented the Turkey Twizzler (look it up if you dont believe me).  Lets look at America instead. The Citibank-esque can-do attitude, combined with visions of wild college parties with red paper cups and Victorias Secret models gyrating around on tables in bikinis is surely more appealing to your average teen. Or how about Australia, where term not only starts in February, thus allowing students to start University without waiting a year until September, and which conjures up images of a more relaxed form of revision, lounging on sandy beaches with your highlighters, leisurely munching on shrimps from the barbie and engaging in witty banter with your bronzed and beautiful chums. Even our French cousins seem more appealing, the image of an all-nighter fuelled by steaming mugs of caf au lait and freshly baked croissants contrasts favourably to one with an Efes and 4 bottles worth of flat Kick.  So what are the British government doing about this unfortunate situation? Campaigning around the world to drag international students to the land of chips and gravy? No. In their infinite wisdom theyve actually decided to increase the fees for visa applications. As students, we all know how precious our hard earned cash is  even the increase of 72 in postal visa applications could be enough to steer the geniuses of the world from central hall to the Sydney Opera House.  What this means for the UK is little short of a rejection of highly intelligent international students, badly needed to contribute to British research and academia. More specifically, the implications for York are that once more the Heslington East development is in danger of becoming a sort of ghost town, leaving just a few postgraduates to wander around its lofty halls as tumbleweed bounces through echoey corridors.  Of course, the University cannot be blamed for this depressing predicament. Its the governments Baldrick style cunning plan which has got everyone into this ridiculous state of affairs. Not only are our MPs in danger of making fools out of themselves with ill-thought-out bureaucracy such as this, theyre also in serious risk of inhibiting the future of British research and academic progress. Whilst the changes to the visa costs may seem reasonable, when compared with other countries and their more flexible programs, the UK starts to fall behind. The government must now produce more incentives to lure back the hoards of bright international students crucial to British universities, who are starting to realise you get more for your money elsewhere.  
