Beijing: China believes it has found the solution to the dwindling number of youngsters playing badminton but its proposed professional league looks certain to put it on a collision course with world governing body, the BWF.  As the countrys top players do battle at this weeks All England championships in Birmingham, the Chinese Badminton Association (CBA) says there are now just a thousand registered players in China and the relaunch of a national league is essential to boost those numbers.  The league is a must, as it is the only way to commercialise and promote badminton, CBA spokeswoman Wang Yuyan told Reuters.  Inevitably, however, the proposed league would result in Chinese players shunning international events to play at home.  You cannot burn the candle at both ends, we will have to give up some international tournaments, Chinas head coach Li Yongbo told state media.  The Badminton World Federation (BWF), who got an inkling of what to expect when China withdrew all its leading players from last seasons first Super Series finals, said on Wednesday it wanted to talk to the CBA about the league.  The BWF is concerned with the development but welcomes open discussion on the issue for the mutual benefit of all parties, BWF chair of events Paisan Rangsikitpho told Reuters by e-mail.  China has dominated badminton since the country returned to the international sporting arena in the 1970s. Chinese players won 11 of 20 medals at the 2007 world championships and eight of 15 at last years Beijing Olympics.  In an increasingly affluent China, however, parents restricted by law to one child no longer see sport as an attractive way for their sole offspring to get on in life.  The CBAs solution is the six to eight team league, which it says has already attracted 20mn yuan ($2.92mn) in sponsorship ahead of a projected start by the end of the year.  This will make more and more Chinese parents let their children play badminton since they can see hope through the league, said Liu Fengyan, director of the Badminton and Table Tennis Administration.  The CBA admits clashes with the international calendar are inevitable but says they will be kept to as few as possible.  The league is carefully working on the schedule to co-ordinate with the international tournaments as much as possible, said Wang.  The national teams performance on the international stage must not be affected, as well as the status China has held in the badminton world, she added. The league, announced with a flurry of publicity last month, is still at the planning stage. - Reuters  
