Book fair featuring local, national authors stories  Mary Scott 04.MAR.09  When Leo Bretholz was on a train headed to Auschwitz, he took a chance and leapt off the train to escape. He was able to avoid going to the concentration camp, but he also faced a rocky road including several arrests, assuming new identities and spending a total of seven years on the run.  This is just one story that can be heard at Saturdays Random House Book Fair at Carroll Community College where Bretholz will be joining other local and best-selling authors to discuss highlights from their books.  The annual book fair, which will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., will give locals the opportunity to purchase books for 20 percent off the cover price, meet several authors and even attend workshops on financial issues. There will be more than 35 local authors there too.  We will have a number of national authors  that wouldnt normally come to Carroll County to speak. Its a great opportunity to be exposed to authors on a pretty large scale, said Steven Wantz, executive director of the Carroll Community College Foundation.  Lisa Gardner, the New York Times bestselling thriller author will speak at 11 a.m., and Dan Yaccarino, the artist, writer and producer of childrens books and an animated series, will speak at 11:45 a.m. Bretholz is scheduled for 1:15 p.m.  Bretholz, who is a Pikesville resident, will speak about his experiences as a Holocaust survivor and share the highlights of his book, Leap into Darkness, that he coauthored with his friend Michael Olesker.  I wrote it mainly to leave a message for my children, and also that victims should be remembered. If we do not remember the victims, then we kill them again, he said.  Wantz said he expects all of the authors will attract good crowds, especially Bretholz.  [Bretholz has] been on campus before and attracts an incredible crowd because people want to hear the passionate nature of his story, Wantz said. The college has also partnered with the Bank of America, which will provide two financial literacy workshops on Saturday. The first workshop, focused on knowing when to refinance your mortgage, is scheduled for 10 a.m. and the second workshop, Household Budgeting, will take place at 1 p.m.  Hopefully it will provide some insight for families just trying to figure out how to make ends meet, Wantz said. Were living in a pretty unusual economic time right now.  Other activities at the book fair include a silent suction, a childrens area that costs $2 and a Professor Wizard and his Wonders of Science performance.  Wantz said there will be trained professionals there to talk with any parents who are concerned about their children becoming active readers and will have resources on hand.  Anything we can do to encourage a young person to read, we certainly do that through the book fair, Wantz said.  Mary Scott can be reached at 410-857-3316 or mary.scott@westminsteradvocate.com.  - Advocate Staff Writer  Submit your opinion on this story  Opinion: (5,000 characters)  Publish My Opinion  Security Code  Security Code  more . . . Front Page  04.MAR.09 Book fair featuring local, national authors stories  search archives  Issue date:   Type either Keywords, Date or both.   Date examples: 5/30/02, &gt;5/30/02  
