After a culturally steeped visit to the U.S. Bank Celebration of the Arts Open Art Exhibit at Western Kentucky University, my dining companion and I decided to give in to pop culture of the moment. Since Slumdog Millionaire won best picture, everything Indian is in, so we decided on the Taj Palace off Scottsville Road.Im not that well versed in Indian food, but my dining companion was, and the Taj Palace is anything but a place of pop culture. This food was the most authentically ethnic Ive had to date in Bowling Green, which meant we were back to a deeply immersed cultural evening from the moment the pappad (crisp, lentil flat bread) and a spicy hot dipping sauce arrived.  For an appetizer, I ordered the paneer pakora. These were rectangular pieces of naturally pure, lightly processed, one-of-a-kind homemade cheese sticks, battered and deep fried, then served with tamarind chutney (mild) and mint chutney (raw and wild).  The wait staff was patient and helpful as we vacillated over the menu and asked a lot of questions, and then it was back to a pop culture moment right out of a Seinfeld episode. You see, two of the wait staff were waiting on us without the other one knowing and we went through drink orders, appetizers, questions and refilling of the water before even we realized the echoing of the same questions was more than just attentiveness.  We had a good laugh and I ordered the lamb saag, my dining companion the navarantna curry, a dish that sounded so much like nirvana (the highest state of enlightenment) that I had to try it for myself. It was cashews and just about every vegetable imaginable (from green beans to peas to potatoes), lightly cooked then seasoned with curry and other spices. Delicious.  My lamb saag was also a one-of-a-kind treat with large chunks of lamb lightly seasoned then mixed with a creamed spinach sauce. I ordered mine mild, but you can get any dish at any level of spiciness desired, making the menu a plethora of unmatched, unique taste incorporations. Both dishes were served with white rice as a hearty, sauce soaking side dish (or in this case, under entree).  We did take food home and did not have enough room for dessert (making a trip back a must, hopefully with just one wait staff), but my dining companion did suggest we share a mango lassi. One creamy yogurt milk shake made with imported alphonso mango pulp, rose water and two straws. Back to the pulp, I mean pop, culture minus Fonzie and Richie from the 1950s, but just as fun!  I highly recommend the Taj Palace if youre looking for a fun evening of something new, but definitely be ready for some tastes you never could have imagined. Keep an open mind, maybe start slow your first time out, or, as another friend suggested, try the lunch buffet to get a sampling, but then definitely go back some evening for dinner to create your own culturally appealing evening.  And, if you do so between now and April 4, you can also hit the art show at the WKU Museum and Library. It is a display of the artwork from hundreds of professional and amateur artists from Bowling Green and its surrounding counties. My dining companion was from out of town and was quite impressed. Our anonymous food reviewer gives new restaurants a six-week grace period before reviewing. To comment, contact Managing Editor Mike Alexieff at 783-3235 or via e-mail to malexieff@bgdailynews.com. 
