Quick: What do rocker Melissa Etheridge, self-help guru M. Scott Peck and troubled insurance giant AIG have in common?  Answer: A common misreading of one of America's most famous poems.  All have made use of a line from Robert Frost's 1916 poem, The Road Not Taken, to label their work, or their image or both. The poem, in which the narrator stands in a yellow wood and ponders which of two paths to take, ends, I took the one less traveled by, / And that has made all the difference. It's popularly read as a paean to American rugged individualism.  Peck, who died in 2005, probably promoted the misreading. Considered a founding father of the self-help genre, his 1978 book, The Road Less Traveled, spent 694 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list.  Etheridge referenced the poem in 2005, after she beat back breast cancer and released the compilation album, Greatest Hits: The Road Less Traveled.  Start looking for the New England poet's famous road and you'll see it everywhere. Recently in San Francisco, health care giant Kaiser Permanente covered public transit stations with posters showing two trails in a forest. Viewers were urged to take the road less traveled toward better health.  As for American International Group, as it was being rocked by an Enron-like accounting scandal almost four years ago, it placed in the New Yorker magazine a colorful eight-page insert of poems titled Well Versed: Poems for the Road Ahead, led by Frost's verse. Apparently the company, which just last week announced 2008 fourth-quarter losses of $61.7 billion, thought Frost could help us choose the correct path to financial security.  As it turns out, of course, AIG and many other financial giants were only on the road to ruin. The federal government, which threw AIG a $150-billion lifeline last fall, sent $30 billion more last week. With the country facing, according to our president, a day of reckoning after years of false dreams and funny money, perhaps it's time for a closer reading of Frost's poem about choices.  For decades, literary critics have pointed to a contradiction at the heart of Road that, once you see it, sticks out like a sore thumb: The two roads in the yellow wood aren't so different after all.  At the poem's start, the narrator hits the fork in the road, examines both paths and laments he cannot travel both / And be one traveler.  He decides to take the one with perhaps the better claim / Because it was grassy and wanted wear. This observation, however, is immediately taken back: Though as for that, the passing there / Had worn them really about the same.  The next line too stresses the similarity of the two paths: And both that morning equally lay / In leaves no step had trodden black.  
