Sunday will mark the third time Boise firefighter Kyle Rajsich races up the stairs of Columbia Center in Seattle in full turnout gear to raise money for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society.  Audra Rajsich, who was diagnosed in September, has one more treatment to go before the cancer is hopefully behind her.'My little sister means the world to me,' said Rajsich, who works in Station 11 in West Boise. 'Never in a million years did I think we'd be facing this giant.'Audra is the honored patient for the Boise Fire Department's team of 21.   Chad Tiffany of Boise Station 22 also is competing for the third time.'I've known Kyle as long as he's been in the department,' Tiffany said. 'When he told me his sister was diagnosed with lymphoma, it was on my heart, and I know it was on his heart to do something.'A total of 34 firefighters from the Treasure Valley will participate in this year's climb. A record 1,530 firefighters from 244 departments across the country have registered.  Last year's event raised $530,000.  To get ready, Boise firefighters have been training in the stairwell of the U.S. Bank Building on Capitol Boulevard. It's only 19 stories, but it's better than a stair machine, Kyle Rajsich said.   Firefighters will don their full bunker gear and air tanks - about 50 pounds - for the 69-story race.  Since he did so well last year, Rajsich will be in the first battalion to enter the stairwell. Audra will be able to watch him enter from 5th Avenue.  Every 15 seconds, a firefighter wearing a timing device starts the race, Kyle Rajsich said.  Competitors are allowed to change air on the 40th floor, with help from a designated bottle changer. The race is over in about 15 minutes.'You feel horrible, but at the same time that's what it's about,' Rajsich said. 'That's my way of trying to take the burden off (Audra's) shoulders. If it hurts me that bad, maybe it'll hurt her less.'The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society is letting patients have their pictures taken in the stairwell as a memento, which Kyle and Audra plan to do. 'Just to be there and to be able to say 'thank you' means so much to me,' Audra said.The Leukemia and Lymphoma Society has held an annual public stairclimb in the same building for 22 years.  One year, a Seattle firefighter thought it would be fun to climb the stairs in his gear, said event Director Kris Howard. He got a couple of firefighters to join him, but eventually so many wanted to participate that they had to have their own race.   The public stairclimb will be March 21.  Bethann Stewart: 377-6393
