Special to the Herald/Review     Beauty comes in all shapes, sizes and colors. Some beauty has persisted through the ages. Some beauty glimmers and is gone. Confucius said, Everything has its beauty, but not everyone sees it.  Behold and be blessed.  I was back at Bisbees San Jose district. I was about to walk across Highway 92 when a compact Chevy pulled up beside me and stopped. The window came down and inside was a young woman, her husband, their toddler and infant. They were all smiles and bright eyes. They were from Tucson and needing directions to Naco. I helped them out and felt shined by their young gladness as they drove away. I didnt get their names. Sometimes beauty is like that. It touches us, lifts us, and then goes on its own way, leaving us to bask in its afterglow.  Across the road, I walked into the Chevron station to fetch sodas for me and my friend, Milton Myser. Doris Dottie Coleman was at the counter. Dottie gave me her best smile and howdy. I called her Doris. Ive never known another Doris, but Doris Day was my cinematic sweetheart when I was a young boy. This is because Miss Day always and forever reminds me of my Mom, who, when I was still at her knees, sang to me what will be, will be. Beauty can be that way, spilling over from one vision and vessel to another, with the simple associations of a word.  Milton and I downed our sodas in the shade of his grand pine tree, reaching 40 or 50 feet above his house. Old rock and roll cranked out of his stereo. His yard of many contraptions never tire my eyes from the numerous discoveries they make there. It is a beauty, like Confucius said, not seen by all. Milton, himself, is such a beauty.  In Bakersville, at Bank of America, I collected cash to pay bills. I love going to the bank. The folks there always call me by name and laugh at my jokes. This time I got to say hello to Andrea Thompson and Debbie Spivey, talk about beauties. Debbie is like the banker-daughter I never had. I gave her some aloe vera plants a few years ago, and like her, they have blossomed regularly. Andrea is a year and a half new to Bisbee. I do my best to tease her whenever Im at her window. She returns the favor.  Across the street from the bank I stopped at the Minute Mart to grab my monthly mortgage money-order. Margaret Noonan was on hand behind the counter with Kevin Acuna. I asked her what is her philosophy of things.  My children and grandchildren, she answers quickly, they are, and that when I wake up above ground I know that everything is fine.  Kevin prepared my money-order and handed it to me. Let me mention you in the column, I suggested. Your girlfriend will love it, I said.  No girlfriend, he explained, his cheery, bashful smile winning the moment. Theres no doubt in my mind some young lady will soon see the beauty there.  At the Copper Queen Community Hospital I was registered by the lovely and beautifully freckled Patsy Price from Double Adobe. Afterwards, I waited to have blood drawn for yet another routine exam. Waiting, too, were Judy Abril and her Daughter Allissa Barone, 7 years old. They moved here from Tucson just three weeks ago.  I spy something purple, Allissa said with glee. Judy asked, Is it in that picture on the wall?  No, said Allissa.  Is it  the game continued. I was invited to join in fun. I spy. You spy. We all spy.  Later, when Estella Colon drew my blood. I didnt feel the needle slip in. I didnt feel it come out. That is a beauty all its own.  From there I trekked across the way to Pioneer Title, where Julie Benavidez took my payment.  Whats the most important thing in your life? I asked her.  Making sure my kids grow up right and become good people, she answered, not hesitating.  What will you do when they are grown and gone? I asked.  Sleep in, she said, and spend more time with Heath Brock, my husband, sleeping in.  At the Dollar General, Renee McIntyre told me when I asked how shes doing, If I were any better Id be twins!  Checking out behind me was Suzy Gill, who is here four years now from Alaska. Wild horses couldnt drag me away from this place! I love it here! she proclaimed when I asked how she like her new home.  At the Bisbee Car Quest, where Scott Spoona, Shelly Connally and Benny Montiel hang their day hats, I said howdy to the crew, and got Benny to come outside and help me with a part. Good service, fair prices, reliable product, sweet people, it doesnt get too much prettier than that, does it?  Heading up to see Joe Hogan and Annie Miller, I spied Maya Sullivan, her twin boys, Tyler and Joseph, born Jan. 3, 2008, and her sister, Jessica Seefeld. Mayas husband, Tyler Bradberry, is a chef at the Bisbee Breakfast Club. Maya is a stay at home mom. Jessica serves good brew at Bisbees Safeway Starbucks.  As for young Joseph and Tyler, I spy, you spy, we all spy. I spy beauty.  As it happens, I spy something beautiful pretty much every time I open my eyes.  To be continued.  James Tucker is an area resident, author, artist, daydreamer and man of the mountain. He may be contacted at jtamjt@gmail.com. Look for his column each Sunday in the Herald/Review Lifestyle section.  
