                   If you want to go and pay of a house that is depreciation in value I have no objections and happy that you are doing so and there will always be people buying and selling Houses due to one reason or another, as for rents you will find suckers who are convinced their house is worth fighting for will move in with their Inlaws or friends and rent their house out also as things get worse each month more people will be selling up or walking away from their house just like they are doing in USA and here in Qld putting more houses on the market and forcing down prices.   If you are convinced now is a good time to buy do so and the more you own the more deeper in debt you can get.   If you don&amp;#039;t want to believe house prices won&amp;#039;t come down or your house is more precious than your neighbours then hang on to it and keep paying for the rest of your life and hope and pray it will go up in value.   House and share when up after 30&amp;#039;s crash in 1957 they were the same price as 1930 so they do recover unless you work the real cost of a house and do the maths correctly it would have taken longer than 27 yrs.   Germany today went in to Recession GM is all but finished BUT here is Australia we are imune according to the RE experts here.   ABC news to night tells us house prices are 23% over prices but not you house it is safe some how you think only other people houses are at fault.   This is a common reaction were some thing like 53% false believe their house is rising in value or holding its price and refuse to accept the Agents figure when they go to sell and then sadly find out the first price was the best and now they are down another few thousand.   You can sit tight and refuse to believe all the available infor. or do some research online and decide for yourself.   You may like to tell em why CBA has allowed just under $1B for bad debts?   You may like to tell me why house prices will keep going up, how much and where will the money come from to buy them?                                                                                                                                                           
