 The final, concluding post of my paranoia on the current state of the word economy...(11) Why banks are importantWhat happens if a bank runs out of money? Every person, every company, every investor, every shareholder in that bank loses every dollar and every cent invested in it. After all, banks don't simply store our money in vaults, they invest it. And if asset prices begin to drop, our money no longer exists and can never be recovered.But if every person, every company, every investor, every shareholder in a bank loses all their money, billions of dollars disappear from the economy in moments. This has massive effects. So much money is involved that entire economies depend on banks being reliable and being able to refund savings and supply credit. (12) So what happens when trillions of dollars over hundreds of banks worldwide are lost?When banks are in financial trouble, governments have two choices.The first is to let it happen, and to let the money disappear into oblivion. If this happened, millions of people would lose their jobs, businesses, life's savings, superannuation, and more *overnight*. There would probably be rioting in the streets, unemployment, increased crime and homelessness. Taxes would decrease and wellfare would increase. It would, obviously, be a catastrophe.The second is to pay the cost for the bank. The reserve bank simply prints the money, the bank takes it, and life goes on as normal (Incidentally, the American Federal Reserve has already done this once with the Investment banking firm Bear Stearns, and the Bank of England, the reserve bank of the UK, was legally given the responsibility to do this last week). But there are repurcussions to printing money: Slowly but surely, the value of money goes down. Companies would be unable to afford to hire, and unemployment would ensue, life's savings and superannuation would become valueless, businesses would collapse, and hence crime and homelessness would increase.Sound familiar?Yes, they do. In one scenario, it happens over a number of years, and in the other it happens over night, but in either case, the problems - known as recession or depression - occur.Unfortunately, the problems only compounds. With sudden losses of employment, property, and investments, people will suddenly need the cash they've stored in their bank accounts. With mass amounts of people turning to the banks for cash, and the banks already having spent all of their money, there will be a panic as people realise that the banks don't have enough cash to pay them. Governments then have the two same choices as they had before: Let the money disappear, or bail the banks out and cause value of money to drop.The results - no matter what the government does - are a downward spiral towards recession.(13) Where we stand.So, it seems a recession is coming, whether we want it or not, and it can and will get much worse than it is now. Plenty of things haven't been mentioned here: Rising oil prices and the prospect of war in Iran, for example.But there are (albeit minor) positives here: We live in Australia. Our economy is strong (although we still print more money than we earn), and our banks haven't suffered to as great an extent as banks overseas have (the only major loss, to ANZ, wasn't to the bank itself but to subsidiary companies). In fact, conservative estimates say that we will have one of the most stable economies in the world in the near future (despite our government printing more money than they earn).But that's not to say things aren't going to be difficult. Our government does print more money than it earns, hence in the near future we're going to face a massive increase in the cost of living. Employment will be harder to find, life will be more difficult. But, compared to what Europe and America will be facing, being in Australia is a blessing.
