 Arthur Rothstein Hobo Jungle March 1936A hobo jungle along the riverfront in St. Louis, Missouri Ilargi: Some days I feel its a miracle theres still any trade at all going in the City and on Wall Street. Theres just such a long list of brewing troubles, of an underground rumble that has started shaking the foundations so hard it is now distinctly audible. The entire mortgage industry looks set for an additional set of hard knocks. Some will fail to get up this time. While that is nothing new, being dragged off to court and then to prison is. The Truth in Lending Act is about to be tested, and while Im no lawyer, I cant see how all lending practices can be considered truthful by all judges.Florida is the third state, after Illinois and California, to file a lawsuit against Countrywide and its CEO, Bad-Tan Mozilo. The company will soon no longer be, after being swallowed by Bank of America, and it will be interesting to see who will pick up the tab for the fines that will be the result of those suits, and for the behemoth losses still to come out of their loan portfolio. If I were a betting man, Id put my money on the Joe and Jill Six Pack family tab.In banking, Lehman is bleeding profusively, down for the count, leaning on the ropes and struggling to get up one more time. With all others trailing in points, little help seems likely. Merrill Lynch is still standing, but you just know their defense is down. When a banks assets are worth more than its shares, the only thing that seems to make sense is to split it up. Wachovias abrupt move away from Option ARMs sounds like a giant ship horn coming in through the mist. They wont be the last lender (forced) to make that move. Wachovia is also forced into a buy-back, another field in which others will follow.But UBS looks to be the bank thats worst off. There have already been confessions about facilitating clients tax evasion, and the investigation is about to get serious. The UBS business model is built on wealthy customers, and anyone of them who can  move their money elsewhere is doing so, or already gone. As the US probe widens, Id think the Swiss authorities are bound to file their own inquiries.A look at the 11.00 AM Dow tells me that monolines MBIA and Ambac are plummeting. What else is new? Is there any value left there? No, but there are hundreds of billions of swaps and derivatives that will go POOF in the night if theyre allowed to fail.And: GM at a 54-year low?! Its time to say goodbye to the walking dead in the US economy, pay our respects and allow them to go with what dignity they have left. I saw a headline this morning that says it all, in my view: $6 billion will buy GM.And that's not all: we have three different views in the inflation or deflation or stagflation ongoing debate. You know, just to confuse you.Mortgage ruling could shock U.S. banking industry A lawsuit filed by a Wisconsin couple against their mortgage lender could have major implications for banks should a U.S. appeals court agree that borrowers can cancel their loans en masse when their lenders violate a federal lending disclosure law.The case began like hundreds of others filed since the U.S. housing boom spawned a rise in sales of adjustable rate loans. Susan and Bryan Andrews of Cedarburg, Wisconsin, claimed that lender Chevy Chase Bank had hidden the true terms of what they believed was a good deal on a low-interest loan.In their 2005 lawsuit, the couple said the loan's interest rate had more than doubled by their second monthly payment from the 1.95 percent rate they thought was locked in for five years. The interest rate rose well above the 5.75 percent fixed-rate loan they had refinanced to pay their children's college tuition.The Andrews filed the case seeking class action status; and in early 2007, U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman ruled that the bank had violated the Truth in Lending Act, or TILA, and that thousands of other Chevy Chase borrowers could join them as plaintiffs.The judge transformed the case from a run-of-the-mill class action to a potential nightmare for the U.S. banking industry by also finding that the borrowers could force the bank to cancel, or rescind, their loans. That decision was stayed pending an appeal to the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which is expected to rule any day.The idea of canceling tainted loans to stem a tide of foreclosures has caught hold in other quarters; a lawsuit filed last week by the Illinois attorney general asks a court to rescind or reform Countrywide Financial Corp mortgages originated under "unfair or deceptive practices."The mortgage banking industry already faces pressure from state and federal regulators, who have accused banks of lowering underwriting standards and forcing some borrowers, through fraud, into costly adjustable loans that the banks later bundled and sold as high-interest investment vehicles.The loans have caused serious instability in the financial sector, as mortgage interest rates adjusted upward and borrowers began defaulting at a significant rate starting in 2007, drawing lawsuits from investors and homeowners.Federal appeals courts disagree over whether class-wide rescission under the Truth in Lending Act is available, said attorney Christine Scheuneman, whose firm represented Chevy Chase at the district court. "If class treatment is found to be available for rescission ..., given the current crisis not predicted in 2005, the result all over the country could be massive class suits," said Scheuneman, a partner at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.GM touches near 54-year low Shares of General Motors fell Monday, at one point trading at their lowest level since 1954, on the eve of what's expected to be a dismal report on June vehicle sales.GM stock ended down 5 cents to $11.50 a share after hitting a low of $10.57 earlier in the session. That was the lowest level for the company's stock since Sept. 22, 1954, when it traded at $10.49 on a split-adjusted basis, according to data from the University of Chicago's Center for Research in Security Prices. So far this year, shares of the nation's largest automaker have lost half their value.Last week, GM shares tumbled after Goldman Sachs analysts downgraded the company to "Sell" from "Neutral" and cut their six-month price target to $11 from $19. The automaker is set to announce its June sales numbers Tuesday and the outlook is grim. "People are expecting bad news," said David Healy, an auto industry analyst at Burnham Securities Inc. "For the industry as a whole, we're expecting the weakest month in years," he said.Sales of full-size vehicles like trucks and SUVs, which were GM's most profitable products until recently, have declined dramatically as gas prices have soared. The national average price for a gallon of regular gas has reached an all-time high of $4.086, according to a daily survey by motorist group AAA released Monday. In addition to falling demand for some of their flagship products, GM is also facing higher input costs as the price for raw materials like steel and other metals have risen. What's more, labor disputes earlier this year have caused significant delays in GM's production schedule. "People are beginning to realize the size of the losses they [GM] will take this year," Healy said.But GM has plans to change its product line so that it can take advantage of rising demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient cars. Eighteen of the nineteen new vehicles GM is working on will be cars or crossover SUVs. And the company is developing a plug-in hybrid vehicle, the Chevrolet Volt, that can run about 40 miles without any use of gasoline. "They are adjusting their sales mix as quickly as the can, but in the meantime sales will be bad," Healy saidLehman Drops to Eight-Year Low on Sale Speculation Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. fell to an eight-year low on speculation the fourth-biggest U.S. securities firm may be sold for less than its market price, traders said. Lehman lost $2.44, or 11 percent, to $19.81 in New York, the lowest since May 2000. The company's value has tumbled 70 percent from a record $45.5 billion on Feb. 2, 2007, ending today at $13.8 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg."We're hearing that there may be a possibility of Lehman being taken over," said Michael Nasto, the senior trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which manages $6 billion in San Antonio. "There hasn't been any positive news on this firm for the last couple weeks and the value of the deal might not be in the best interest of Lehman shareholders."An index of financial stocks in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index slid 2.1 percent to a five-year low, dragged down by Lehman's slide and losses in MGIC Investment Corp., the largest mortgage insurer.  Richard Fuld, Lehman's chief executive officer, said June 16 that the company didn't need to be acquired."With this franchise, strength and power, we can go it alone," Fuld said. "But I have also said that we are a public company and if there is another model, or more importantly someone comes forward that we believe can create more shareholder value than our model can create, I clearly have the obligation to take that to the board."Fuld told executives at Putnam Investments that his firm has enough money to remain independent and that the stock may be undervalued, Putnam's Kevin Cronin said after meeting with Fuld and Lehman President Herbert "Bart" McDade today in Boston. "They have a strong desire and intention to remain an independent firm," said Cronin, who helps oversee $180 billion as Putnam's head of investments. "They're disappointed with the stock price and they think it's undervalued relative to their earnings and revenue potential." Cronin said his firm owns Lehman shares, bonds and convertible stock. Putnam held 4.58 million shares as of March 31, according to Bloomberg data. The stock added 59 cents to $20.40 in trading after the close of U.S. exchanges. Leman was rated "overweight...
