 Two shut-downs for the price of one!IndyMac seized as financial troubles spreadU.S. banking regulators swooped in to seize mortgage lender IndyMac Bancorp Inc (IMB.N) on Friday after withdrawals by panicked depositors led to the third-largest banking failure in U.S. history. California-based IndyMac, which specialized in a type of mortgage that often required minimal documents from borrowers, became the fifth U.S. bank to fail this year as a housing bust and credit crunch strain financial institutions.Funny, *I* think it's the requirement for minimal documentation and other shady/predatory practices that's straining financial institutions.  IndyMac will reopen fully on Monday as IndyMac Federal Bank under Federal Deposit Insurance Corp supervision[.]The FDIC, which will seek a buyer for IndyMac, estimated the cost of the bank's failure to its $53 billion insurance fund at between $4 billion and $8 billion.The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) insisted IndyMac's failure was the second-largest bank failure based on FDIC figures. But the FDIC said its data showed it was third behind the collapse of First RepublicBank Corp in 1988. That's okay.  Nobody ever remembers who came in second ;)  Or third ;)  Especially when nobody = an ill-informed and short-sighted American electorate.The OTS, IndyMac's primary regulator, blamed comments by New York Democratic Sen. Charles Schumer for causing a run on deposits at the largest independent publicly traded U.S. mortgage lender.Ahhhh, so it's Schumer's fault.  I'm so relieved it had *nothing* to do with the way the bank solicited customers or approved loans.  Schumer apparently agrees with me.  He's in good company ;)This institution failed today due to a liquidity crisis," OTS Director John Reich said. "Although this institution was already in distress, I am troubled by any interference in the regulatory process.No, Mr. Reich, IndyMac failed due to an ethics crisis.  You should understand that.  So did that OTS, apparently.  *I* am troubled by the regulatory process (or lack thereof).IndyMac was founded in 1985 by David Loeb and Angelo Mozilo, who also founded Countrywide, another big mortgage lender whose loans helped fuel the housing boom. Countrywide was taken over last week by Bank of America Corp (BAC.N).What an amazing coinky-dink!  At the time of closing, IndyMac had about $1 billion of potentially uninsured deposits held by about 10,000 depositors. The FDIC said it would pay those depositors an advance dividend equal to 50 percent of the uninsured amount. Read: fuck you, uncovered depositors.  Not entirely sure I understand wtf is meant by "advanced dividend", but it sure smells like getting IndyMac off the hook for pennies on the dollar. "They don't have to sell the institution over the weekend," she [Former FDIC official Ann Graham] said. "They have the time to shop around."Graham said the FDIC has the authority to operate an institution for two years but expected the agency would dispose of it much sooner than that. So here's the fun part to look for in the future...who will FDIC sell the gutted IndyMac to?  I sure hope David Loeb and Angelo Mozilo won't have a hand in the till twice!  Well, technically speaking, only Angelo Mozilo could play in the sandbox again.  Loeb died back in 03.  But the legacy lives on!  As for Mozilo, as of May 21, 2008 he's still an asshat according to  this.****Sorry Bernie.  I really don't have anything even mock-clever for you.  Surprise, surprise! You're a comedian and event planners failed to consider the ramifications of that, heheheh.  Fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
