Its unusual - but for some struggling investors somehow comforting - to see that occasionally, the Singaporeans make bum investment decisions and end up losing (a lot) of money. Following earlier news that Australand Property Group, the Australian unit of Singapores CapitaLand, will seek as much as A$557m ($532m) from shareholders after first-half profit dropped 79 [...] Its unusual - but for some struggling investors somehow comforting - to see that occasionally, the Singaporeans make bum investment decisions and end up losing (a lot) of money. Following earlier news that Australand Property Group, the Australian unit of Singapores CapitaLand, will seek as much as A$557m ($532m) from shareholders after first-half profit dropped 79 per cent amid plunging property values, it seems timely to examine the forays by various Singaporean entities into ventures Down Under. While business media in Australia focused on the shock profit warning by ANZ bank, the bigger shock, according to Australian commentator Stephen Mayne, was Australands announcement of an emergency A$557m capital raising. As Mayne noted in his daily blog The Mayne Report, Australand began the day with a market cap of A$905m and claimed net tangible assets of A$1.66 per share, despite the stock having tumbled from a December 2007 peak of A$2.60 to Fridays close of just 98c. Lo and behold, says Mayne, today we get a one for one rights issue priced at just 60c, with Sing Inc only promising to step in for their share of $302m whilst the remaining $255m could fail if the stock tanks when trading resumes. Wow, that is a shocker, Capitaland refused to underwrite the entire issue, which basically indicates a lack of confidence. That&amp;#8217;s going to drive the price below the issue price and lead to the issue not closing. Ouch. If Singapore Inc wasnt standing behind Australand, you have to wonder if the company would have even survived because for shock value todays announcement is very similar to the surprising $500m capital raising that then-MFS chief executive Michael King unveiled on Friday, January 18, 2008, before he resigned the following Monday. Australands chairman made the following statement at the April 17 AGM: Our balance sheet and the facilities we have in place are well supported by quality assets and strong operating cash flows from the business. The companys chief executive Bob Johnston also gave no hint of the coming drama, reassuring shareholders that gearing was only 40.4 per cent, net profit came in at A$269m in 2007 and distributions were a most impressive 17c a share. The collapsing listed property trust sector has turned up some extraordinary developments but, as Mayne notes, if even the Singapore governments vehicle is in trouble with total debts of A$1.5bn, things must be really crook. And, when you sit down to tabulate the - er, less lucrative - among Singapore Incs Aussie experiences of late - terrible is Maynes word. Singapore Power laid out A$8.14bn in cash for the Alinta east coast assets last August and then failed to flip it into SP Ausnet. This has left Singapore Power lumbered with A$17bn in debt and the same power assets are today probably worth about A$6bn. A little untrue. The debt is probably non-recourse. And not to worry, long term. They&amp;#8217;re going to have low yields for a couple of years, but this should recover. Singapore Incs Temasek meanwhile ploughed A$400m into ABC Learning at $7.30 a share 12 months ago and has watched almost 90 per cent of that evaporate. Ouch. This I did not now. Similarly, the decision to take a one third interest in the Myer Melbourne property play at a valuation of A$600m now looks ridiculous, as does the $717.5m purchase of a half share in Westfield Parramatta in April 2007 on a skinny yield of about 5 per cent. On top of the recently not-so-profitable Singaporean investments in western banks, the shine is beginning to look distinctly duller on Singapores famed investment acumen. In: Capital markets  
