Many newspaper readers today will see an Associated Press story noting pending home sales in May fell to the third lowest level on record as the housing markets recovery continued to prove elusive. "Pending homes sales" refers to sellers who...   Many newspaper readers today will see an Associated Press story noting pending home sales in May fell to the third lowest level on record as the housing markets recovery continued to prove elusive. "Pending homes sales" refers to sellers who&amp;nbsp;have accepted offers but transactions havent closed. Delaying completion of home-selling deals, in many cases, is financing, notes Grumpy Editor. Thats where there is a hang-up. Most business writers --- including those focusing on consumer confidence reports --- just dont see the link between pending home sales and attempts to obtain loans. Home seekers are having a difficult time obtaining mortgages.&amp;nbsp; Thats because lenders, from community banks&amp;nbsp;to giant nationwide operators, are feeling the squeeze from defaults. Just Monday, major mortgage lender IndyMac Bancorp Inc., smacked by borrowers with faulty income or assets, announced it is curbing most types of home loans.&amp;nbsp; This follows last weeks rescue acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp., largest U.S. mortgage lender based on loan volume, by Bank of America Corp. On the other end of loan sources, many start-up banks (more than 600 of them since 2003) are struggling with problem loans on their books. More home loan applications stamped approved will give a lift to home sales. Many newspaper business writers fail to see that until home sales improve, display and classified advertising in the (formerly lucrative) housing category will continue to suffer, affecting their publications bottom lines.&amp;nbsp; Continued emphasis on sluggish home sales only prolongs the situation --- and contributes to additional layoffs of fellow editorial staffers. So with so many loan sources displaying out to lunch signs, home buying naturally is up against a wall. Tip from Grumpy Editor:&amp;nbsp; Rather than awaiting the next monthly figures, alert business writers should contact&amp;nbsp;financial institutions, including those in their circulation area, and members of Congress linked to financial services committees to get their latest input&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; --- beyond remedies discussed for weeks --- on immediate solutions&amp;nbsp;to get out of the deep housing hole. 
