 Meant to post this yesterday..Things to understand about oil. Most serious commentators, including Bernanke &amp; Krugman, think the price is not being manipulated. Thinking logically, the only way to manipulate oil, is to withhold it. (Supply &amp; Demand.) Meaning, you'd have to get it out of the ground, then store it somewhere the world doesn't know about, a secret Arctic lair perhaps, or submarine supertankers. Seriously, where would you put it?Then there is the deal with speculation. But again, any rational thought would quickly dispel this idea. There are contracts to buy, and contracts to sell. That means as the average desk bound speculator, you either have to take delivery of oil from the dockside. Or make delivery of oil, to the dockside. Money doesn't cut it at that point. Make delivery, or take delivery. So even if somebody does sell oil, they do actually have to buy it back, or make delivery. So net-net, the speculation does very little to drive up the price in any meaningful way. Excepting that a large number of people speculating will drive up prices slightly in aggregate, though this would in no way account for the doubling of the oil price this year, or indeed the ideas of some number or oligarchs or modern day robber barons "making a killing." If anything the "speculators" are likely to be your pension funds, and insurance companies, etc. The need to demonise is human, but it is not rational or useful. The price of oil is going down, it's going down because are driving less, and airlines are cutting routes wholesale. This then is demand destruction, and perhaps the large groups of speculators are selling. The price went down from it's highs of $146 to $129 a whole $17. the current prices of gas in the US, are predicated on $120 oil. Oil is sold ahead, usually three months ahead. The only way that $17 doesn't get passed on, is if the refiners chose to take the hit rather than pass it on to the retailers. Somebody is going to get squeezed.Still oil going down is good, it lessens demand and increases supply, and forces the West to economise. China is also restricting road use in Beijing, to lessen the smog for the Olympics. However, China is also expected to grow it's oil consumption 3-5% this year, as is India. Luckily we now have some spare capacity because of "demand destruction", and they'll get it cheaper because the price went down.Simple maths tells you what happens when the West comes out it's slump, and starts thinking about driving/flying again. Unless of course, this is an inflection point in a phase change. Oh, and according to Bloomberg, (according to the FT) the HBOS rights issue had a take of "less than 19%" Meaning even worse than Barclays. Allegedly we find out the real % on Monday, I'd be surprised if it was greater than a 8-15% uptake. Here's to living in interesting times. Have a good weekend.
