          As noted earlier, HM Revenue &amp;amp; Customs seems to have 'lost' a mere 2.8bn of taxpayer money. Right, on to the next charade:Investors who have stashed money in tax havens in Europe and the Channel Islands are to be asked to give themselves up to HM Revenue &amp;amp; Customs in exchange for reduced penalties, The Sunday Times can reveal. The move is designed to flush out those with secret savings in offshore bank accounts ahead of legal moves by the Revenue to force 117 foreign and UK institutions to disclose customers details. Nothing new we discover:It raised 400m last year after taxpayers with money in offshore accounts operated by five high-street banks  Barclays, HBOS, Lloyds TSB, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland  were offered leniency in return for voluntary disclosure. Most account holders with those banks who took up the offer paid 10% of outstanding tax, rather than 100%. The new amnesty will apply to all offshore account holders.Just a thought, why not adjust the rates of taxation to provide a greater incentive for the individual to pay in the first place vs. a waste of time and effort by all concerned to either conserve their wealth (individuals) or devise ever more esoteric efforts to dip their snout (government) into the trough?Proper levels of taxation would let individuals get on with creating wealth, while letting people like Dave Hartnett, the HMRC's acting chairman, get on with finding that misplaced 2.8bn of taxpayer money.Tripping over billions in order to get their hands on millions, ain't government great?Added bonus from the Times:Are there places where the Revenue cant get my details? The European Savings Directive requires EU members to disclose details about known foreign nationals who have offshore bank accounts, or deduct a minimal rate of tax. The Channel Islands have so far opted to pay tax rather than disclose details  however they will be required to begin sharing information from 2011. Liechtenstein and Switzerland do not share information. Dubai, Hong Kong and Singapore have not signed up to the directive.Labels: Governmentalism, Kabuki, Snout Dipping          
