Concerns PersistWorries about the health of the financial sector  are persisting and a small profit from JP Morgan Chase is doing little to  assuage concerns after a report that Bank of America is negotiating with the  federal government over aid for its purchase of Merrill Lynch. However, shares  are off early lows. Apple is also coming under renewed pressure amid new  concerns over the health of its CEO, while Autodesk and Motorola reduced  guidance and announced layoffs. In economic news, jobless claims rose and the  Producer Price Index registered another decline, while overseas, the European  Central Bank cut rates as expected. Treasuries are lower. As of 8:43 a.m. ET, the March S&amp;P 500 Index  Globex futures contract is 3 points below fair value, the Nasdaq 100 Index is 7  points below fair value, and the DJIA is 5 points below fair value. Crude oil is  down $0.18 to $37.10 per barrel, and gold is up $9.00 at $817.80. Dow  member JPMorgan Chase (JPM $26) reported 4Q net earnings of $0.07 per  share, down sharply from $0.86 a year ago but six cents above the Reuters  estimate. CEO and Chairman Jamie Dimon called the results very disappointing,  driven by a loss in investment banking that was largely attributable to  continued markdowns on leveraged loans and mortgage trading positions, as well  as weak trading results. The bank also faced higher credit costs associated with  a continued deterioration across its loan portfolios and added $4.1 billion to  loan loss reserves. Looking ahead, Dimon said that if the economic  environment deteriorates further, which he called a "distinct possibility," it  is reasonable to expect an additional negative impact on market-related  businesses, continued higher loan losses, and increases to credit reserves.  The Wall Street Journal reported that Bank of America (BAC $10  1) and the US government are closing in on a deal to provide billions  in additional government aid to assist the banking giant with its  recently-completed purchase of Merrill Lynch. Bank of America, which has already  received $25 billion in TARP funding, approached authorities last month because  it said that larger-than-expected losses at Merrill in 4Q were endangering the  January 1 close. The Journal said a failure to complete the acquisition could  affect the stability of financial markets, and the government agreed to work  with the bank. Bank of America has not commented. Shares of BAC are under  pressure. Shares of Apple (AAPL $85) are significantly lower  after CEO Steve Jobs said that during the past week, he has learned that his  health-related issues are "more complex than I originally thought." As a result,  Jobs said he will take a medical leave of absence until the end of June, but he  does plan to remain involved in major strategic decisions. Citing global  conditions that continue to impact demand, Autodesk (ADSK $18) cut profit  guidance and announced a restructuring plan that includes a reduction of about  10% of its workforce, or 750 jobs. Shares are solidly lower. Motorola  (MOT $4) cut 4Q profit guidance, offered revenue guidance below the Street's  forecast, and said it will further reduce its workforce by about 4,000 positions  in 2009, with about 3,000 jobs coming from its mobile device business. The  company said it shipped about 19 million cell phones as sales were hurt by  continued weakness in consumer demand and customer inventory reductions.  Producer prices still falling, jobless claims riseThe  Producer Price Index fell 1.9% in December, nearly in line with an  expected decline of 2.0%, according to Bloomberg. The core rate, which  removes food and energy, increased 0.2%, above the estimate of a 0.1% rise.  Year-over-year (y/y), the headline rate is down 0.9%, but the core rate edged up  from 4.2% y/y to 4.3%. Weekly initial jobless claims increased  54,000 to 524,000, above the forecast of 503,000. The four-week moving average  dropped 8,000 to 518,500, and continuing claims declined 115,000 to 4,497,000.  The Empire Manufacturing Index, a measure of manufacturing in New  York, rose from -27.9 to -22.2, just ahead of the estimate of -25.0. A reading  of zero suggesting conditions are neither contracting nor expanding. At 10 a.m.  ET, the Philly Fed's Business Activity Index will be released and a  slight improvement from -36.1 to -35.0 is forecast. Europe struggles  as ECB cuts ratesEuropean shares have climbed off lows, with the  volatile mining group partly offsetting losses in the insurance and auto  sectors. The deepening recession in the eurozone forced the reluctant European  Central Bank to cut its key interest rate by 50 bp to 2.0% as expected. Later  this morning, the central bank will release its statement and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet will comment on the bank's decision and the economic  backdrop that led to the reduction. Yesterday, Germany's Federal Statistics  office said 4Q GDP probably declined 1.5-2.0% from the prior quarter, which  would be the worst contraction since the country reunified in 1990. Many  economists believe that Europe's largest economy may be going through its worst  recession since the Second World War. Elsewhere, ASML Holding  (ASML $16) swung to a 4Q loss of 88 million euros, sales fell by more than 50%  to 494 million euros, and 4Q bookings plunged to 13 units amid excess capacity  by its customers. The world's largest maker of lithography systems said it  expects cash to be positive in 2009 and shares are higher. Asia  follows US lower The gloom on Wall Street yesterday that followed  the steep drop in US retail sales and worries about the financial sector spread  to Asia, putting heavy pressure on the export-dependent economies. South Korea's  Kospi Index lost 6.0% and Japan's Nikkei 225 Index shed 4.9% on rising worries  that the US economy is not likely to bottom in the near term. Hyundai  Motor (HYMLF $58) and Kia Motors tumbled over 10% after Fitch Ratings  downgraded the ratings on the two companies and noted that auto demand in the US  and Western Europe is contracting at a larger and quicker scale than had been  anticipated. Traders in Japan also had to deal with the largest monthly  drop in core machinery orders in over 20 years as the proxy for capital spending  plunged 16.2% in November, double expectations. Falling exports around the world  has sharply reduced the demand for capital equipment, which is likely to add  pressure on the already struggling Japanese economy. 
