    Person in the Know wrote:     Thank you all for making assumptions and statements, when you actually know nothing of the situation. You only know what is reported and that is all on the news, which makes almost all of ignorant to this issue. For starters, yes AIG had a conference just after the bailout. That conference was to reward independent Life Insurance Brokers (independent of AIG) for bringing large amounts of premiums to us. Premium is the life blood of our company. Even though the bailout occurred, we are still a company that needs premium to continue on. This showed our resolve and commitment to our independent clients, so we can continue to do business with them. AIG employees at the conference in question - 10. Second - American General, the company that held the conference, is a subsidiary of AIG Holding Company. American Generals investments are separate of the holding company. THEY HAVE TO BE BECAUSE THEY WE ARE GOVERNED BY STATE LAWS WHEN IT COMES TO INSURANCE AND PAYING INSURANCE CLAIMS. This protects you, the insured. This is because the holding company has financial divisions also, which has you have found out, are not regulated in any manner close to the insurance divisions. Also, American General has more way more assets than liabilities. The bailout, while it includes American General, was not caused by American General, nor is American General taking a dollar of the 85 Billon dollar bailout. That money is to pay off the crap that the AIG FP division got us into. That division caused the entire problem. All of the &amp;amp;quot;insurance divisions&amp;amp;quot;, such as American General, would have continued on even if AIG went backrupt. Now American General is up for sale, to help pay off the 85 billon dollar bailout, because it is a very valuable business. Third, you make it sound like the employees of AIG are not fighting to survive just like everyone else in this crisis. We are one of the 5 largest companies in the world. We are the largest financial institution in the world. Think about that. Oh ya, by the way, every AIG employee is helping to pay off monies handed out in the bailout. We are not exempt just because we work for AIG. The financial meltdown is effecting AIG employees in a manner most of you cannot comprehend. In the end, we are the taxpayers too. And we have to foot the bill too. But we need to work and make money just like everyone else. So go on, continue to make your assumptions.     Very nice explanation.   If you think that American General is not going to get a dollar of this so called loan, youre dreaming and/or you have your head in the sand.   Unfortunately there are good employees that work for AIG that will, in the long run, get it in the shorts. I hope that you realize this and are gainfully seeking employment.  Good luck to you and all the great employees of AIG. 
