1 hour 8 mins ago  Sky News  Prime Minister Gordon Brownis flying to the Middle East today to ask wealthy Gulf states to help ease the global economic slowdown by stabilising oil prices. Skip related content  Price by  PriceStock prices  Company name  Percentage change  He will stress that the countries must maintain production levels to avoid 'spikes' in prices.  He will also insist they have a duty to use some of their massive oil wealth to help ease the impact of the credit crunch on the world economy.  But as he tries to shore up foreign investments, the PM is facing renewed pressure back home - with the shadow chancellor George Osborne accusing the Government of trying to 'spend its way out of a recession'.  Speaking before he set off for the Gulf, Mr Brown said: 'My main focus is how we can help British families through this downturn but because there are global problems they require global solutions.'  He added: 'What starts with negotiations in Saudi and elsewhere can end with great (benefits) for families in Britain.'  Mr Brown's four-day tour comes amid fears the International Monetary Fund's $250bn (155bn) reserves may not be enough for future bail-outs.  The fund has already allocated around $30bn (18.6bn) in emergency loans to Iceland, Hungary and Ukraine. Pakistan has signalled it may request aid in the next fortnight.  While Europe and the US face recession, Opec members are estimated to have more than $500bn (311bn) in foreign exchange reserves stashed away.  The growing importance of Middle East capital was emphasised when it emerged that Barclays raised 7.3bn from investors in the region to shore up its position.  Mr Brown will be joined for parts of his visit by Business Secretary Lord Mandelson, Energy and Climate Change Secretary Ed Miliband, and a delegation of senior executives from UK firms.  Downing Street said the PM would be emphasising the importance of 'transparency and stability' in the oil price, and calling for 'dialogue' between oil consumers and producers.  He will also urge Gulf states to invest in renewable energy sources 'over the longer term', according to a spokesman.  The spokesman denied the West was going 'cap in hand' to the Middle East in a bid to shore up the IMF reserves.  Number 10 sees the visit as a key part of preparations for a summit on forging new international financial rules, which is being held in the US on November 15.  There has been speculation that Middle East states - along with China - will demand more power in return for signing up to reforms and investing cash from their sovereign wealth funds.  Latest Business news  3 hours 10 mins ago  4 hours 35 mins ago  5 hours 16 mins ago  6 hours 11 mins ago  6 hours 24 mins ago  6 hours 44 mins ago  7 hours 21 mins ago  9 hours 8 mins ago  Baugur's bosses were quoted as saying the Icelandic More  9 hours 50 mins ago  10 hours 23 mins ago  Business Secretary Peter Mandelson has given the go-ahead More  10 hours 57 mins ago  
