 Barclays chief executive John Varley. Photo: VISUALMEDIA John Varley fired off an email to staff as the shares fell another 4pc yesterday, dropping 7.4 to 171.5p.   Barclays shares have plunged by more than 16pc since last Fridays deal, which hands 30pc of the equity to new Middle Eastern investors, so diluting existing shareholdings. Current shareholders are contributing a further 1.5bn. Amid a mounting shareholder backlash, Mr Varley told staff that it became clear over the weekend of October 11 and 12 that banks would pay a hefty price for accepting Government funds. It was very clear from the conversations that I had with the UK Government... that it would, as a shareholder, influence our dividend policy; it would influence our lending policy; and it would become involved in the formulation of strategy, Mr Varley said. Dismissing speculation in the press that the boards decision was also influenced by concerns that the Government would interfere over bonuses, Mr Varley defended Barclays decision not to launch a conventional rights issue. Our instinct, and our track record, shows us to be believers in pre-emption rights, he said. However, the experience of those UK banks who took the rights issue path during 2008 (HBOS, RBS, Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley) is not something that inspires confidence. Mr Varley also hit back at those comparing apples with oranges over the costs of the respective deals, stressing the discount being paid by Middle Eastern investors was significantly smaller than the discount that would have been forced on us had we done a conventional rights issue. He noted Barclays also had one luxury other banks did not. Rivals, he said, were required to take UK Government money as a condition for being open for business on Monday, October 13. To date, the market has refused to accept Mr Varleys arguments, with analysts at Merrill Lynch yesterday arguing that Barclays decision not to raise capital from the UK Government may have cost shareholders a potential 3.2bn. Barclays share price dropped a further 4pc yesterday, after analysts raised concerns that its fund raising efforts in the Middle East could wipe 3.2bn off the price of existing stock. The banks shares fell amid fears the bank had not acted in the best interests of shareholders. 
