25 mins ago  Sky News  Barclays is one of the most famous names in banking - but its latest tie-up with Middle East investors underlines the shift in the balance of global economic power. Skip related content  Related content  Price by  PriceStock prices  Company name  Percentage change  The bank, which has a history stretching back more than 300 years, could see almost a third of its shares in the hands of super-rich investment funds and royalty from Qatar and Abu Dhabi under the 7.3 billion plans.  In the ongoing turmoil in the banking sector, the oil-rich regions are an attractive source of funding.  Barclays' chief executive John Varley said the move reflected the new realities of the 'significant shift' in global capital during the past five years.  The new move sees the Qatar Investment Authority and Challenger - a fund representing the royal family - nearly double their stake to a combined 15.5%.  The bank, which also attracts investment from funds in China, Singapore and Japan, hopes the new deal will develop into further international business relationships.  BGC Partners' senior strategist Howard Wheeldon said: 'Barclays remains intent to at some point expand its presence in Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Europe.  'Going this route and retaining freedom from government interference is surely the best way for Barclays to progress.'  The QIA are best known in the UK for attempting a 10.6 billion takeover move on supermarket Sainsbury's last year, but it abandoned the deal as funding costs rose in the credit crunch.  The state-backed fund also owns other companies in the UK such as care homes operator Four Seasons.  Abu Dhabi's Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan meanwhile - alongside the ownership of Manchester City - is the chairman of the International Petroleum Investment Company., which has an international investment portfolio worth more than 8.7bn.  And his investment of up to 5bn in Barclays will see that figure expand.  Latest Business news  1 hour 55 mins ago  3 hours 46 mins ago  5 hours 17 mins ago  8 hours 8 mins ago  8 hours 16 mins ago  8 hours 21 mins ago  8 hours 25 mins ago  8 hours 29 mins ago  8 hours 38 mins ago  
