However, as it could have raised cheaper capital from the Government, its open to accusations it is being run for the benefit of management.   As existing shareholders will not get a chance to buy new shares before outside investors, dont be surprised if they retaliate by voting down this deal.   Bail-out ... Barclays  Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan was among a group of investors from Abu Dhabi and Qatar who provided the bail-out cash.   Barclays said the deal would save it having to draw on Government funds like rivals RBS, HBOS and Lloyds TSB.   But critics said the bank could have raised the cash more cheaply from the Government.   They claimed Barclays wants to avoid having the Government as a shareholder so it can continue paying colossal multi-million-pound bonuses to executives.  Liberal Democrat Shadow Chancellor Vince Cable called it "a scandal of mammoth proportions". He said: "Here is a bank which relies on the taxpayer to bail it out if the going gets rough but which offers Middle Eastern investors a much better deal than banks offer the British taxpayer.   Deal ... City badge "We have to ask why? The answer is simple they dont want the Government stopping them paying massive bonuses. "More than other banks, Barclays operates a high-risk casino operation which makes it particularly unstable but gives very rich pickings to top executives. The Government must not let this pass. This deal smells to high heaven." Barclays is well-known in the banking sector for its huge bonuses to executives. Bob Diamond, the head of investment banking arm Barclays Capital, received 21.4MILLION last year.   Another executive, Roger Jenkins, is reported to have earned as much as 40MILLION in 2007.   Dr Cable said the Government must make it clear Barclays would forfeit any future entitlement to protection from taxpayers if it completed the deal. Sandy Chen, of broker Panmure, said: "The terms of this fund-raising look expensive to us especially compared with the financing terms on offer from the UK Government." Sheikh Mansour, of Abu Dhabis royal family, is paying Barclays 3.5billion which will give him a 16.3 per cent stake. He bought Man City for 210million in September and lured Brazilian star Robinho to the club.   By coincidence both Barclays and City use sky blue and eagles in their logos.   Qatar Investment Authority, which already has Barclays shares, is investing 2billion. Another 300million comes from Challenger, an investment firm owned by Qatars royal family, with the rest provided by institutional investors.   Chief executive John Varley said Barclays would benefit from links with the Middle East. 
