A boutique investment bank headed by a former treasurer of Halifax bank has this weekend emerged as adviser to a possible rival bid for HBOS Little-known European American Capital is in talks with the foreign bank about a possible bid for HBoS, throwing into doubt the agreed 6.6bn Lloyds TSB deal.   It is thought the foreign bank is also considering whether to offer cash as part of its bid to trump the Lloyds TSB all-share offer.   EAC was founded in 2003 by Tim Goode, a former treasurer for Halifax and then  He refused to comment on the plan, but Jim Spowart, the Scottish businessman who has helped to broker the potential bid, said: 'I would like to confirm that European American Capital is in discussion with the foreign bank.   'You will understand that for commercial reasons the bank still prefers to remain unnamed, but we hope to be in a position to confirm the situation this week.'   Speculation has been rife about the identity of the potential bidder.   Spain's Santander, which earlier this year bought Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester and recently took over the savings business of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley, is thought to have long coveted HBoS. Its Spanish rival, Banco Bilbao, has also been named as a possible bidder.   Spowart, with a small group of other Scottish business figures, has been trying to orchestrate an alternative bid for the bank, which retains an Edinburgh headquarters and employs thousands in Scotland. He would give no further details, but a source close to the talks said any rival bid would most likely include a cash element.   'A counter-bid would have to have substantially different payment characteristics,' the source said. Spowart meanwhile said it was regrettable that the prospect of a rival bid had become public so early.   The Government, which approved the HBoS-Lloyds TSB merger as part of its wider bail-out plans for the battered banking sector, has said there would be a level playing field for all HBoS bidders.   Spowart was quizzed by the Takeover Panel last week and the regulator has since spoken to EAC. It is thought the Panel knows the identity of the foreign bank, but has accepted the possible offer is at an early stage and may never materialise. Lloyds TSB's offer for HBOS is entirely in shares.   Under the agreed deal, HBOS shareholders will receive 0.605 Lloyds TSB shares for each HBoS share.   At Friday's close the bid valued HBoS at 121p a share, or a total of almost 6.6bn. HBOS and Lloyds TSB are both issuing new shares to raise cash. The issues are underwritten by the Treasury and could at one extreme lead to the Government holding a 43.5% stake in the merged bank.   RBS is also issuing new shares to boost its capital, again underwritten by the Treasury, that could see it 60% owned by the taxpayer.   Barclays  The bank posted details of the scheme to shareholders this weekend and a public statement is expected tomorrow.   The only leading UK bank that has not issued new shares to raise capital is HSBC 
