GLOBAL banking suffered another series of hammer blows yesterday as Banco Santander called for 7.2 billion (5.9bn) from shareholders, HSBC revealed almost $5bn (3.2bn) worth of subprime writedowns and US institutions AIG and Fanny Mae disclosed new multi-billion-dollar losses. In another day of dramatic announcements across the globe, Santander shocked the market by revealing it was seeking a heavily discounted 7.2bn rights issue just days after reassuring investors of the strength of its balance sheet.In the UK, HSBC wrote down a further $4.9bn worth of subprime debts and toxic assets  mainly based on further declines in the US housing markets.   Meanwhile, insurance giant AIG was forced to up the size of its bail-out from the US government from $85bn to $150bn, as it revealed its largest yet quarterly losses of $24.5bn.   To round off the day, Fanny Mae, the largest funder of US mortgages, revealed a $29bn quarterly loss, its fifth in a row, warning it was in danger of being wiped out in terms of its net worth by the end of the year as it gave up tax breaks dependent on an eventual return to profitability.  However, the biggest surprise was the volte-face by Santander, owner of Abbey in the UK.   In a show if its strength in the past few months, the Spanish giant  often held up as an exemplar of conservative banking  bought Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester for 1.3bn in July.It then bought the branch network and retail business of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley when the UK government took control of that failed bank in September.  At the end of October, when presenting the bank's third-quarter results, Alfredo Saenz, Santander's chief executive, told investors his bank was 'totally different' to other banks that needed to raise funds, although he admitted Santander did need to boost its capital ratios in light of other bank bail-outs.  At the time, he sought to reassure investors this could be met through the bank's expected 10bn 2008 profit as well as the sales of assets in the US and South America.  But yesterday the bank's shares slumped by more than 5 per cent after it announced the rights issue as faltering markets force it to postpone a series of asset sales until conditions improve.  Although the bank brushed off concerns that it had overstretched itself, its core tier 1 capital ratio, which stood at 6.3 per cent at the end of September, was due to drop below 6 per cent as a result of recent acquisitions.   It said yesterday it had no plans to make further acquisitions.  Shares will be sold at 4.50, a 46 per cent discount on the current price.  Meanwhile, Britain's biggest bank, HSBC, yesterday added to the gloom with news of spiralling bad debts and warned there would be further bad news in the full year as the economy continued to decline.  The group said losses from US loans and mortgages had soared to $4.3bn (2.7bn ) in the third quarter, while it wrote off a further $600m in its investment banking business.   Losses from defaults in the US rose by $700m in the third quarter alone.  HSBC was the first to flag up problems related to the US subprime market two years ago. Although these assets remain a problem, analysts estimate HSBC is ahead of others in managing its risk.   Michael Geogheagan, chief executive of HSBC, ruled out the need to raise cash. Despite the writedowns, HSBC said that third-quarter profit was higher this year than during the same period last year due to continued growth in Asia and asset sales that boosted income by $2.4bn.  Brokers were relaxed about the bank's announcement, suggesting impairments were already in line with analyst estimates.  Alex Potter, an analyst at Collin Stewart, said: 'The news on impairments and Asian slowdown are already factored into our thinking on HSBC. Its capital strength, funding advantage and diversity mean it remains our favoured bank in a weak sector.'
