BRITISH bank Barclays has sought $17.7 billion, mostly from oil-rich investors in Abu Dhabi and Qatar, to bolster its finances amid the global credit crunch.  Although the cash call fell slightly short of target, the fresh capital means Barclays will not have to tap funding from the government, unlike some of its competitors, as it grapples with the worst financial crisis in decades. 'The board of directors of Barclays today announces a proposal to raise up to 7.3 billion ($17.7 billion) of additional capital from existing and new strategic and institutional investors,'' the bank said.   The cash injection would see Abu Dhabi's Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, a new investor and the owner of English Premier League football club Manchester City, owning as much as 16.3 per cent of Barclays.   The Gulf state of Qatar, meanwhile, could ramp up its stake to 15.5 per cent from the current level of 8.1 per cent.   The announcement ensures that Barclays meets higher capital adequacy targets which were set by Britain's Financial Services Authority earlier this month.   In reaction, however, Barclays stock lost more than a fifth by the close of trading, finishing at 163 pence on London's FTSE-100 index of leading shares after earlier having risen sharply.   Analysts said the drop in the bank's share price was down to concerns over the terms struck with the Middle East investors.   Barclays, which last month bought the US investment banking arm of now collapsed Lehman Brothers, also issued a trading update in which it said that pre-tax profits for the first three quarters of 2008 were 'slightly ahead'' of the same period last year.   It added that it had credit market writedowns of 1.2 billion but said these were mostly offset by gains made elsewhere.   The bank said sovereign wealth fund Qatar Holding will invest two billion pounds directly and had subscribed to warrants which allow it to purchase a further 1.5 billion of ordinary Barclays shares at a later date.   Abu Dhabi's Sheikh Al Nahyan, meanwhile, will provide 3.5 billion directly and also subscribed for 1.5 billion in ordinary share warrants.   Challenger, an investment vehicle which is owned by Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, the chairman of Qatar Holding, will invest a further 300 million in Barclays. The remaining 1.5 billion was to have come come from other institutional investors but in the event Barclays said they subscribed to 1.25 billion, bringing the total raised Friday to 7.05 billion rather than the 7.3 billion sought initially. Barclary said the 7.05 billion raised allowed it to fully live up to its commitment to raise fresh funding. 'Given the continuing uncertainties in world capital markets, the board of Barclays resolved to satisfy the capital raising requirements agreed with the UK authorities without delay,'' Barclays chairman Marcus Agius said. 'This we have done. The board believes that this maintains Barclays as a strong, independent and well capitalised bank.''   In June, Barclays announced a share issue to raise 4.5 billion. Barclays is the latest international bank to raise new capital in a bid to bolster finances which have been hammered by losses related to the collapse of the US subprime or high-risk home loan sector.   It was one of several British banks hit hard by the subsequent squeeze on global credit, with the government having to launch a half-trillion-pound rescue package, including up to 50 billion to buy shares in the country's ailing banks.   Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds and HBOS have all been forced to take government funds which come with a price and a state stake, but Barclays said it would raise any necessary capital from investors.   Barclays is expected to try to raise another 3 billion pounds through a rights share issue which will be announced after it has published its full year results in 
