1 hour 8 mins ago  Steve Slater and Nicola Leske  Capital remained the key issue for European banks on Monday as several unveiled sharp falls in profits and plans to raise money from taxpayers and private investors. Skip related content  Related content  Price by  PriceStock prices  Company name  Percentage change  Germany's second-biggest bank Commerzbank confirmed on Monday it will take an 8.2 billion euro (6.8 billion pounds) capital injection from the government and a further 15 billion in guaranteed funding to secure refinancing.  As a result, Commerzbank raised its medium-term target range for its core capital ratio to 7-9 percent from a previous 7-8 percent.  But its bigger rival Deutsche Bank will not tap the rescue fund, chief executive Josef Ackermann told German public TV channel ZDF over the weekend.  'We have a very, very strong refinancing basis, so that we do not need to use the rescue package,' he said.  Home lender HBOS raised its estimated hit from the value of risky assets and bad loans to over 5 billion pounds on Monday and its takeover partner Lloyds TSB warned of a sharp fall in profits.  The banks said the takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB remained on track, however, and Lloyds said it expects to resume dividend payments next year after repaying preference shares taken by the government.  HBOS shares rose, partly because of a weekend report that Lloyds may face a rival to its takeover plan.  However, Barclays led other banks shares lower on concerns that its decision to raise capital without government help could prove expensive and dilutive.  French bank Societe Generale reported an 83.7 percent fall in third-quarter net profit but said it was strong enough to weather the global financial crisis.  Net profit fell to 183 million euros, with earnings hit by a 244 million-euro loss at its corporate and investment banking division.  SocGen's gross operating profit fell 29.5 percent to 1.411 billion euros, while its Tier 1 ratio -- factoring in French state support for the banking sector -- stood at 9 percent.  West LB analyst Christoph Bossmann, who kept a 'hold' rating on SocGen shares, said the operating performance was 'OK while the Tier 1 ratio is a positive.'  SocGen is the first French bank to post third-quarter results. BNP Paribas, France's biggest listed bank, publishes on November 5. Credit Agricole, France's biggest retail bank, posts results on November 13.  The share reaction was mixed. SocGen was up 2.62 percent at midmorning, Commerzbank up a more modest 0.78 pct, Deutsche Bank was up 6.5 percent, HBOS was 3.2 pct higher, with reports of a potential rival bid giving an extra boost, but Lloyds TSB was down 2.17 percent.  Both the UK banks said market conditions remain tough.  HBOS said writedowns and losses on bad debts for the first nine months of this year had risen to 5.2 billion pounds, up 2.7 billion pounds in the third quarter alone.  The owner of the top mortgage lender the Halifax said losses on structured credit related assets was 1.8 billion pounds at the end of September, up from 1.1 billion at the end of June.  Lloyds stepped in to buy HBOS in a government-brokered deal, after HBOS was hit by a deepening global financial crisis and concerns about its exposure to the weakening housing market.  Both banks were forced to recapitalise under the government's rescue plan, taking a combined 17 billion pounds from the sale of preference shares to the UK government and from the issue of equity guaranteed by the state.  SocGen said non-recurring items from the collapse of Wall Street bank Lehman Brothers and other writedowns related to the market slump had a negative pre-tax impact of 1.208 billion euros.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged the banks on Saturday to tap the 500 billion euro government rescue package.  Merkel said the government had acted swiftly to agree the package in response to the financial crisis and that it was now up to banks and financial institutions to draw on it.  Commerzbank's decision to take state cash accompanied news of a swing to a net loss of 285 million euros in the third quarter from a profit of 339 million euros a year earlier.  (Additional reporting by Eva Kuehnen, Myles Neligan, Paul Hoskins, Sudip Kar-Gupta and Lorraine Turner; Writing by Chris Wickham; Editing by Andrew Callus)  
