4 hours 14 mins ago  Barclays shares dipped 4 percent to a 12-year low on Monday as investors criticised the bank for diluting their holdings by raising capital that they said it was paying too much for. Skip related content  Related photos / videos  Related content  Price by  PriceStock prices  Company name  Percentage change  Barclays on Friday raised 7 billion pounds to boost its capital in line with new regulatory requirements. It will raise the cash mainly through the sale of complex capital instruments to investors in Abu Dhabi and Qatar, rather than by using taxpayer funds.  'We calculate that Barclays' decision not to raise capital from the UK government may have cost shareholders a potential 3.2 billion pounds,' said Manus Costello, analyst at Merrill Lynch.  Barclays is holding informal meetings with investors this week to discuss the fundraising, one major shareholder said.  The shares closed down 4.1 percent at 171.5 pence, after falling as low as 156.1p, its lowest level since 1995.  Barclays will pay about 13 percent annual interest on much of the capital once tax and warrants are included, analysts estimated, slightly more than the 12 percent charged by the UK Treasury.  Several investors in Barclays said all private funding will be costly in the current financial crisis, and they were more concerned that Barclays is locked into the payments for a decade.  'They don't have as much flexibility to pay it back early,' said Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, a shareholder in the bank.  'They have locked in a higher cost of funding for a long period of time without having the ability to pay the money back if in fact life is better next year than we thought.'  One of the bank's top 20 investors, who asked not to be named, said: 'It seems expensive but it's difficult for banks to borrow at the moment so investors are in position to demand generous terms and these are generous terms.'  The investor said the cost of the funding would not matter if the deal had been offered to investors on the same terms.  'The issue is not the generous terms but the fact that they haven't been offered to existing shareholders and in that way the structure looks unsatisfactory,' he said.  Barclays said a fully pre-emptive offer to all shareholders in current difficult markets would have created an 'unacceptable' risk for shareholders so it opted for its structure to provide certainty and speed.  Barclays will also pay 300 million pounds in fees and commission tied to the capital raising.  It said it had opted for its funding plan to remain 'in charge of our own destiny' without the threat of government interference. The Treasury will own big stakes in the banks it provides funds to.  
