Please read part one before this one or you maybe confused.What I do respect about where I work is how they managed to save some jobs.  They cut things like a trip that the heads go to every year, cut down on travel expenses and other things that are a priviledge.  I think the trip was especially a big deal because it is something they do every year.  It is a bonus for the employee of the year and somewhere where the big wigs get to come together.  You hear on the news about other company's during this time have done otherwise.  The former head of Merrill Lynch spent over a million on his office. He gave all his people big incintives while he could because Bank of America annouced that they are not doing that because of the way it would look.  How could it be moral to accept bail out money then give a big bonus to people. AIG spent all that money to take client's on an expensive trip after accepting bail out money.  You hear it all the time in the news but we did not do this.  We may not get a big raise but that is across the board and they are doing that in order to save our co-workers. Our division is doing anything they can to make sure people will keep their jobs and I am sure other areas of the bank are doing the same.  So it has been a bad week.  After I was told this news, I was called in the office.  It seems like I have been consumed with other things and not doing the job I was capable of.  I used to be consumed with my work and would do above and beyond my job requirements such as working on the weekends and staying late at night, but I made my work the priority in my life.  So much that it would physically drain me and not only my health suffered but it also effected my social life.  I got burned out and I also got a serious boyfriend.  So when I was upset about something my boyfriend did or I was excited about going on a trip or what I was doing that weekend, my job was pushed to the bottom.  I did not leave these things behind.  Also there is a person at work that would gossip and so everyone knew what was going on.  I was told that I have let things slip by and what I would have caught before or followed up on was being missed.  I had been an exceptional employee and now I was letting my boss down.  He used to count on me but now not as much.  He knew about my blog and even though he has never seen me blog at work some other people have.  So I may not be writing as much at work or reading other people's blogs all the time.  I am upset because I let one thing I valued or thought highly about myself because I thought I was a hard worker and did a great job become less of a priority.  I was respected and thought highly of by my co-workers but now not so much.So with things being the way there are now, I am going to kick some butt and gain the respect I have lost.  I am going to delegate more work to others because I have not been doing that and was told as a manager it looks bad when I have so much work in my inbox and some of my employees are always on the internet.  I am going to be the best employee they have because I know I can do a great job and I want them to think they can not lose me.
