- Peterborough, Ontario - "I came from an entrepreneurial family of small business owners who were used to facing challenges," says Allison Rolph, a co-owner of MEDIchair Trent along with husband Ron Seiderer. Rolph and Seiderer both felt compelled to own their own business that combined retail and the opportunity to help make a difference in the lives of others. They have found that right mix in acquiring MEDIchair Trent, a Home Medical Equipment supplier from the previous owners who are now retired.Rolph's background and experience as a former bank manager and architectural technologist are proving to be valuable as she spearheads the management and sales components of both rehab and custom home modification design services for MEDIchair Trent. Husband Ron an electrical engineering designer by trade, is focused on product maintenance and repairs as well as all construction and installation aspects of home modifications."We've had a smooth transition from the previous owners," explains Rolph. "We have a terrific group of employees in administration, sales and service, all of whom stayed with us. We like the fact that we are located in a region with one of the largest senior markets in Canada. There are tremendous growth opportunities in the Peterborough area and with the buying power and name recognition of the MEDIchair brand, we hope to expand our business operations and raise our community profile in the marketplace."Since taking charge earlier this year, Rolph and Seiderer have added services that include the design and installation/construction of home modifications that allow clients to remain independent in their private home longer. The home modification business provides services that range from building external access ramps, to changing door hinges (to increase clearance for wheelchairs), to raising toilet heights, to modifying kitchens and other renovations to accommodate each client's changing accessibility/safety needs. Business has been strong enough that today, MEDIchair Trent has earned bragging rights as the largest independently owned and operated stair and porch lift installer in the Kawartha and Northumberland regions.MEDIchair Trent has also expanded existing services such as complimentary home assessment. "We've substantially broadened the scope of this service because many people can't get to our store on their own," says Rolph. "We meet them at their residence with a professional Physiotherapist or Occupational Therapist (if they are applying for government funding) to properly evaluate the right HME products that are suited to their lifestyle. In this manner, we can see first hand what, if any, modifications might be required to their home. We also provide discreet home delivery of incontinent and ostomy products."Rolph explained that MEDIchair Trent has also re-organized its show room space to include arthritic products and greatly expanded the rental of equipment beyond simply wheelchairs, walkers and bath safety equipment to include rental packages for new nursing moms, postoperative eye surgery, and/or knee/hip surgery. "At MEDIchair Trent we also apply the first month's rent toward the purchase of that rental product so that a customer can try a product in-home before committing to purchasing it." "We have made great strides since taking over MEDIchair Trent, but we still have a long way to go," explains Rolph. "Including the owners we have six people to accommodate the needs of our customers in a large territory that includes Algonquin Park to the north, Campbellford to the east, Cobourg and Port Hope to the south and Lindsay to the west. Being locally owned and operated means we are able to support local charity events. We are also very committed to maintaining a high level of education and training for our staff to ensure that every one of MEDIchair Trent's clients receives the proper product, custom fitted to their individual needs." About MEDIchair 'the home medical equipment specialists'MEDIchair, a LifeMark Health Management company, is North America's largest and fastest growing Home Medical Equipment (HME) franchise company with stores from coast-to-coast in Canada.  MEDIchair stores carry a comprehensive line of Home Medical Equipment products including wheelchairs, scooters, lift chairs, bathroom safety products, home accessibility solutions, and soft/disposable personal health care products such as incontinence supplies, wound care, compression, and bracing. These specialty products are designed to enhance the quality of life for people experiencing disabilities, injuries, surgeries, and aging. MEDIchair prides itself on providing caring, knowledgeable and highly trained consultants committed to finding the right home health care product solution for each customer. MEDIchair also promotes good health through its public education and awareness programs, and through its adherence to best practice management. www.medichair.com  -30-  For more information, please contact:  Ms. Allison Rolph and Mr. Ron Seiderer, Co-owners, MEDIchair Trent (705) 740-2650 trent@medichair.ca  Mr. Neil Bousquet APR, PRWIZARD MEDIchair (403) 256-8834 neil.bousquet@medichair.com www.prwizard.ca   View Company Website: http://www.medichair.com 
