Canada, Canadian Politics  (Photo: Peter J. Thompson/National Post)  Prime Minister Harper will sit with Peter Mansbridge of the CBC this afternoon for a one-on-one interview at 3:45 ET.  We are once again live blogging the conversation's best quotes right here. (be sure to refresh for updates)  Overall: Short interview with Mansbridge; we arrive at the end. Not much new, really. Mansbridge really pressed the point of Harper's possible regret for his actions leading up to, and during, the crisis, and Harper didn't budge: it's not right to put power in the hands of a separatist party without consulting the people.  Interesting to note is Harper's plea to the Liberals specifically. He said that despite the agenda of the NDP and the Bloc, the Liberals are, essentially, better than that.  'Mr. Duceppe and Mr. Layton want to push the Liberal party into a corner where they either vote against the government no matter what, or they are condemned as sell-outs. But the Liberal Party has broader interests than that. The Liberal Party has a long tradition of governing, a long tradition of appealing to a broad sector of Canadians. Smart people in the Liberal Party realize that we've got significant economic problems and in a minority Parliament we're only going to be able to sit down and work together. We cannot do that if the three opposition parties are committed to working with each other.'  See below for other choice quotes.  --  4:23 p.m. ET  CBC: Have you reached out in the past week?  Harper: 'We certainly indicated that, but the difficulty we have now is that I have no interlocuter...We have a unified coalition that at the moment has no leader.'  'Mr. Dion was obviously treading a very different path than from what the government wanted to see.  'I'm optimistic that the next leader of the opposition may want to look at different kinds of arrangements in the best interests of the country, and I can assure you that it is in the interests of the government to find a consensus, certainly among the federalist parties and certainly among the two major parties, to find things we can agree on in the short term, to do what we can to keep people working, keep us from sliding deeper into the morass that we're seeing around the world.'  'For now, I think the big national parties should be willing to work together to fix the national economy, and we are more than willing to do that.'  'I hope the next Liberal leader will be willing to sit down with me to have that kind of discussion.'  4:21 p.m. ET  CBC:  Let me understand; you don't feel that you did or said anything wrong last week?  Harper: 'The main thing I said last week...is that I believe parties forming a coalition government that would give the Bloc Quebecois [a hand] in the governing affairs of this country is not in the best interest of the country.'  'Anyone that wants to do that has to go to the people.'  4:15 p.m. ET:  CBC: Quoting Harper 'I would rather lose the confidence of Parliament then do something that would [jeopardize] the Canadian economy.' How do you put those things in sync given the recent events?  Harper: 'The House of Commons only sat for two weeks. The Gov't delivered an economic statement ... with the promise to deliver economic update and a budget.'  'If Parliament rejects our economic plan there will be consequences for that ... but in the meantime I invite the opposition to come forward with ideas about what they want to see the government do.'  CBC: Was it a calculated move to add into the statement the right-to-strike and subsidies cuts? Do you regret that?  Harper: 'I don't agree that those issues [provoked the crisis].'  'I think the issue here is simple. After the election, the opposition parties they would work as a coalition.'  'It's clear that that was their position.'  'I think there's a very simple choice for the country now...they elected us to deal with the economy.'  'Mr. Duceppe and Mr. Layton want to push the Liberal party into a corner where they either vote against the government no matter what, or they are condemned as sell-outs. But the Liberal Party has broader interests than that. The Liberal Party has a long tradition of governing, a long tradition of appealing to a broad sector of Canadians. Smart people in the Liberal Party realize that we've got significant economic problems and in a minority Parliament we're only going to be able to sit down and work together. We cannot do that if the three opposition parties are committed to working with each other.'  4:12 p.m. ET:  CBC: What about threats from the auto sector today that they may move their plants to the U.S. if they don't see action from the government?  Harper: 'We don't respond to threats. We will do what is in the best interest of the Canadian economy.'  CBC: What do you say to the Canadians in the auto sector, many of whom feel they could be out of a job within a week?  Harper: 'This isn't about what CEOs threaten. This is about what is in the interest of Canada and Canadian workers.'  'There's a lot of demand for short term action, and we're looking at the kind of thing, but we need to make sure we don't pile money in right away and lose jobs anyway.'  'We have to make sure what we do here is going to preserve jobs and protect the economy.'  'There's no blank cheques coming from the government of Canada. I can't speak for the government of Ontario, but I imagine [they would say the same].'  4:10 p.m. ET:  CBC: What about before then?  Harper: 'We may need to take some action.'  'We don't want to put ourselves in a situation where we're at a disadvantage' with regards to the U.S.  4:08 p.m. ET: We're started.  CBC:  Bank of Canada brought their rate to the lowest level in 50 years. Will this provide a big stimulus?  Harper: Notes that the move by the Bank of Canada was indeed significant, but 'Our assessment is that additional fiscal policy action will be needed.'  'We're going to need a significant stimulus package,' but probably not as big as the U.S. thinks it needs.  Harper and Mansbridge start talking over each other almost immediately, as Mansbridge tries to pin Harper down with the 'some feel you didn't do enough' argument.  Harper: 'Let me finish.'  'We didn't promise a full budget, we promised immediate action, we talked about credit, we talked about RRIFs,' and so on.  'Those elements in the financial statement, obviously Parliament was ready to deal with them last week, but they do need to be dealt with.'  4:01 p.m. ET: We're on stand-by  still waiting folks. Someone must be running late.  3:45 p.m. ET: Now we're being told the interview will take place at 3:55 p.m. ET.  3:35 p.m. ET: In the meantime, you can brush up on some of the issues likely to be raised in the interview.  Stephane Dion - Stephane Dion, a retrospective  Liberal leadership race -  Bob Rae: Beaten by the very beast he helped bring to life  Stimulus and the economy - Canada already awash in stimulus  Harper's approach to politics - The psychology of Stephen Harper  by Tim Cares  Dec 09 2008  4:57 PM  'I think the big national parties should be willing to work together to fix the national economy, and we are more than willing to do that.' - as long as they do what I want.  Related Posts  December 06, 2008, 8:10 PM  Rae calls for accelerated leadership vote by Shereen Dindar  TAGS: Ottawa, Canada, Politics, Liberals, Canadian Politics  December 01, 2008, 4:33 PM  Dion, Layton and Duceppe face the press together by Shane Dingman  TAGS: Canada, Canadian Politics  December 01, 2008, 2:21 PM  Harper and Dion face off in Question Period by Shane Dingman  TAGS: Canada, Canadian Politics  November 27, 2008, 3:44 PM  Live blog: Notes on fiscal update speech by Shane Dingman  TAGS: Canada, Canadian Politics  November 27, 2008, 1:41 PM  Fiscal Update Watch: Leaks and predictions by Steven Woodhead  TAGS: Canada, Economics, Canadian Politics  
