City still must OK settlement that falls $1.7 million short of damages  Loading multimedia...  Roger Welsh, left, and Jerry Riley rebuild a section of the turbine Tuesday that was damaged in the Dallman 1 explosion. Shannon Kirshner/The State Journal-Register  THE STATE JOURNAL-REGISTER  Last update Dec 10, 2008 @ 01:38 AM  City Water, Light and Power has negotiated a $50.8 million insurance settlement for damages caused by an explosion and fire at the Dallman 1 power plant on Lake Springfield just more than a year ago.  The proposed settlement, which will be discussed by a Springfield City Council committee tonight, is nearly $1.7 million short of a total of $52.5 million in damages caused by the blast. The balance will be paid through the utilitys maintenance and repair account, which is funded by ratepayers.  Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG, has already paid CWLP about $30.5 million on its claim, according to CWLP staff. The company would pay an additional $20.35 million within 30 days after it receives the approved settlement agreement, according to the proposal.  In a statement, CWLP general manager Todd Renfrow said Tuesday its in the utilitys best interest to accept the settlement.  With the magnitude of the uncertainties AIG is facing in the financial markets and the impending sale of so many of its subsidiaries, we believe it is in our best interest to settle the claim at this time, Renfrow said. This will enable AIG to close the books on this case and the city will receive the rest of its claim money almost immediately. We believe this reduces risks for both us and the insurance company.  The proposed settlement comes about 13 months after the blast blew off half the roof and some of the plants outer walls and damaged the turbine and generator, the units transformers, electrical switchgear and other ancillary equipment.  Exponent, an outside scientific and engineering consulting company hired by CWLP, blamed the Nov. 10, 2007, explosion and fire on valve failures. The company also said the explosion might have been averted if the turbine manufacturer had better advised the city-owned utility on ways to deal with sticky valve problems.  John Davis, CWLP general superintendent of generation, estimated the repair work is about 80 percent complete. He said the goal is to have the unit back online and operational by April.  The generator is on site. The turbine is back on site. All the switchgear is on site. Those are some of the major risks that we had, Davis said. Once they came on site, it really completed a good majority of the project. Now its really putting things together is whats left.  Considering what the project was, its gone very well.  Deana Poole can be reached at 788-1533.  
