The Minnesota Shopping Center Associationannounced its 2008 STARR Awards honoring outstanding projects and extraordinary individuals in the retail and shopping center industry at a special ceremony Dec. 2 at the Golden Valley Country Club.  This year's winner for restaurant/food interior design wen to Olives By Massad's, designed by Paulsen Architects with Cedar Lake Electrical, Faribo Pluming and B&amp;amp;G consulting. The contractor on the project was Metcon.  The winner for retail/non-food service interior design was Prosperan Bank, deisgned by Smiley Glotter Nyberg Architect with Rochon Corporation as contractor.  The design and aesthetics award for shopping centers under 50,000 square feet was M&amp;amp;I Bank Building. The developer on the project was Craig Alshouse, the architect was Architectural Consortium, LLC, and C-70 Builders, Inc., was the contractor.  The design and aesthetics award for shopping centers 50,000 to 250,000 square feet went to Brighton Village, owned by Engelsma Ltd. Partnership. Kraus-Anderson Realty was the developer on the project, Architectural Consortium, LLC, the architect and Anderson-Urlacher PA was the consultant.  The design and aesthetics award for a freestanding single user under 50,000 square feet was LA Fitness at Park Place Promenade, owned by Solomon Real Estate Group. LA Fitness was the architect, Weis Builders, Inc., acted as contractor and Westwood Professional Services, Inc., was the consultant.  The award for design and aesthetics award for freestanding single users over 50,000 square feet went to SuperTarget at Southdale. Ryan Companies US, Inc., was the contractor on the project and RLK, Inc., and Damon Farber Associates were the consultants.  Cedar Point Commons took home the design and aesthetics award for shopping centers over 250,000 square feet. Owned by Target, Corp., Ryan Cos. US, Inc., was the contractor, RSP Architects and Ryan Cos. US, Inc., acted at the architects, and RLK Inc., and Ryan Cos. US, Inc., were consultants.  The interior retail under 50,000 square feet renovation/remodel went to Best Buy Mall of America and architect C.M. Architecture, P.A. The nterior retail over 50,000 square feet award went to L.A. Fitness - Burnsville and architect Greenberg Farrow Associates.  The exterior retail renovation/remodel under 50,000 square feet went to Shoppes of Cedar Grove, owned by Chaska Investment Ltd. Part., and the exterior retail over 50,000 square feet went to Prairieview Center, developed by United Properties.  
