NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione has summoned bank bosses to crisis talks this week to try to halt the rash of ATM bombings across the State.  According to police, there have been 25 ATM blasts and attempted robberies across the State since September - most recently at Umina on the Central Coast yesterday.  Commissioner Scipione told The Sunday Telegraph he had asked CEOs of all four major banks, their security advisers and the Australian Bankers Association to meet with police on Tuesday.  The agenda will include plans for a collaborative security strategy which will deter more robberies.  He said strike force detectives were making progress in their investigations, but it was too early to say when arrests would be made. 'A series of investigative procedures are in place, which we won't disclose,' the Commissioner said. 'From a safety point of view, I have directed high-level police to attend a meeting on Tuesday with the Australian Bankers Association for immediate discussions to come up with security arrangements around ATMs. 'There are around 7000 ATMs around NSW. We would like to have police at every one, but that's not possible.' NSW Deputy Police Commissioner Nick Kaldas will attend the meeting as a special representative of Mr Scipione.  Authorities have reconvened Strike Force Piccadilly, a team of elite property-crime detectives, to track down the culprits, believed to be from two independent gangs.  Police fear the media publicity surrounding the attacks may have sparked copycat criminals to perpetrate similar cash-machine robberies. The robbers typically use gas to cause the explosions.  The raids reached their height last week, with seven banking branches targeted since Tuesday.   Bandits blew apart the external cash machine at St George Bank's Umina branch early yesterday morning. The explosion brought part of the roof down and left a trail of glass and debris scattered inside.   The force of the blast blew some material into shops across the road, but the bank's adjoining buildings were left untouched. 'We're thanking our lucky stars our salon wasn't damaged,' said Kerry Wenzell, who runs the neighbouring hairdressing salon.   A couple were sleeping in a unit metres above the explosion, but fortunately they were not injured.   Police said they became aware of 'activity' outside the bank about 3.24am on Saturday.  Witnesses, including workers at a newsagency across the street, told authorities they heard a loud bang coming from the street before seeing three men rush into the bank to extract the ATM's money tray.   A taxi driver was threatened by one of the men with a crowbar after he tried to approach the bandits during the robbery. All three donned balaclavas to conceal their identities.  Once they had collected money, the trio fled down an alleyway across the road and escaped in a dark BMW or Subaru.   A worker from Umina's Commonwealth Bank, located just a few metres away, told The Sunday Telegraph that a man and woman were seen taking photos of ATMs a day earlier and were 'moved on' by security. It's understood the St George cash machine had been topped up just a few hours before the attack, fuelling speculation of a possible 'inside job'. 
