CHARLESTON, W.Va.  Joining   Eckert Seamans 'Hendrickson &amp;amp; Long has built a reputation as a premier litigation-oriented law firm, taking on difficult and complex assignments for clients from across the nation,' said Tim Ryan 'After careful review of our plans for the future, it became clear to us that we could best serve our clients with the depth and resources that only a firm like Eckert Seamans Mr. Hendrickson has over 25 years' trial experience. His practice focuses on product liability, toxic torts, medical malpractice, insurance defense and general business litigation. He was a founding partner of Hendrickson &amp;amp; Long. He has been named in Chambers USA America's Leading Lawyers for Business, as one of The Best Lawyers in America and is a member of The International Academy of Trial Lawyers. A former Captain in the United States  Mr. Long was a founding partner of Hendrickson &amp;amp; Long and concentrates his practice on product liability, personal injury, medical malpractice, toxic tort and asbestos defense. He serves plaintiffs and defendants, including clients that range from individuals and privately held entities to Fortune 100 companies. He has particular experience with class action litigation. He was named in Chambers USA America's Leading Lawyers for Business and has been ranked among The Best Lawyers in America. He received his bachelor's degree from Wake Forest University  Mr. Hall focuses his practice on product liability, insurance defense, and toxic and mass tort litigation. He has more than 20 years' trial experience in both state and federal courts. He earned a bachelor's degree from West Virginia University  Mr. Tinsley, an accomplished trial attorney, focuses his practice on insurance defense litigation, including automobile accidents, personal injury, premises liability, product liability, insurance fraud, and criminal defense. He presently serves as the President of the West Virginia Bar Association. Formerly, he was Managing Trial Attorney for Nationwide Insurance Trial Division, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney in Fayette County  Mr. Horter concentrates his practice on insurance defense, coverage opinions, insurance law, and general defense litigation. He has also built his practice on employment litigation, insurance subrogation, and creditor bankruptcy. He received his bachelor's degree from West Virginia University  Mr. Schwartz concentrates his practice on product liability, environmental law, workers' compensation, business law, administrative law, general defense litigation, and intellectual property law. He serves as West Virginia  Ms. Boggs' practice focuses on product liability, toxic tort defense, silica litigation, insurance defense, and general defense litigation. She earned her bachelor's degree at the University of Kentucky  Ms. Dyer practices in the areas of toxic tort, product liability, insurance litigation, securities regulation, creditor rights, bankruptcy, and general civil defense litigation. She served as law clerk to Judge Jams C. Stucky of the Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, and she interned at the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals. She received her bachelor's degree from Marshall University  Mr. Sparks' practice is centered on toxic tort defense, insurance defense, product liability, and general defense litigation. His bachelor's degree is from the University of Charleston  Mr. Hastings represents plaintiffs and defendants in cases that involved personal injury, product liability, professional malpractice, nursing home liability, breach of confidentiality/invasion of privacy, employment relations, wills, property law, toxic torts and other general areas of litigation. He received his bachelor's degree from West Virginia University  Ms.   Allen Samples  Mr. Morgan's practice focuses on medical malpractice, personal injury, employment discrimination, product liability defense and federal criminal litigation. He was law clerk to United States District Court Judge   Irene Keeley  Eckert Seamans  About   Eckert Seamans Cherin &amp;amp; Mellott Eckert Seamans Cherin
