Issaquah police suspect that a massage therapist married her elderly client, who suffers from dementia, to get his money.  A 56-year-old Bellevue woman was booked into the King County Jail on Thursday on suspicion of kidnapping, attempted theft and obtaining a signature under duress. A second woman, 29, also of Bellevue, was booked for suspicion of kidnapping and attempted theft.  In court documents, police say they believe the younger woman was the older woman's accomplice.  Court documents say that on Nov. 19, the women arrived at the Greenwood Point Adult Family Home in Issaquah. That's where the older woman's massage client, a 78-year-old man who not only has dementia but is also recovering from a stroke, lives.  According to court documents, the women had permission to take him to lunch, but first took him to get a marriage application.  The women returned three days later and told a caregiver that they were again taking the man to lunch. On this occasion, they did not have permission, but did so over the strenuous objections of the caregiver, who reported the episode to her manager, court documents say.  The man was taken to Bellevue District Court, where he married the older woman with her ex-husband and the 29-year-old woman acting as witnesses, according to the report.  Immediately following the ceremony, the women took the man to a Bank of America branch in Bellevue. The women tried to close the man's accounts, asking for a cashier's check for the amount, nearly $23,000. Bank employees grew suspicious and contacted the person who holds the man's power of attorney. That person told the bank to freeze his accounts and to get in touch with a couple who were close friends of the man.  The employees later contacted Bellevue police. Officers reported that the man did not recognize the women, but did recognize his friends, who then took him home.  A subsequent investigation by Issaquah police found that the man was not capable of giving consent and did not remember the events, police said.  The owner of the family home said that the man has been living there for about three months and that he did not have the capability to make important decisions.
