Booth, founder and principal at NicholsBooth Architects, wasnt looking to expand his San Francisco firm in the fall of 2006. But then he found current partner Gary Nichols and was captivated by Nichols experience and charisma. Nearly two years later, Booth credits the firms 139 percent growth over three years with 2007 revenue of $2.1 million to the arrival of Gary Nichols.  Nichols brought in a project with Jones Lang LaSalle to redesign Union Bank of Californias Northern California branches as well as the interior design commission for the Bently Reserve. Nichols also helped strengthen the firms relationship with Charles Schwab &amp;amp; Co. The architecture and interior design firm, which employs 15 staff members, specializes mainly in designing corporate offices and spaces. When Nichols started, the firm had nine employees. Prior to Gary joining us, we were a solid firm, but we were missing a strong personality and high energy level, Booth said. Gary was like a breath of fresh air he was able to develop excellent relationships with clients and contractors. Nichols was thrilled to join the firm and work with Booth. It was a great fit, Nichols said. It was a good match of value and Doug and I really balance each other out. And clients are equally as impressed with Nichols. Carol McDermott, director of office administration at San Francisco law firm, Barg, Coffin, Lewis &amp;amp; Trapp LLP, said Nichols amicable personality and creative thinking were the keys to the projects success. NicholsBooth designed the structural and interior plans for the environmental law firms office space at 250 California St. in the fall of 2007. Booth said his expertise in running the firm complements Nichols creative energy. It was the accessible, friendly nature of the firm that allowed us to communicate effectively, McDermott said. The firm made us feel important in the design process by really listening to what we wanted. And they made us feel like they were looking out for us. Booth cites the accessibility of the firms design team and the ability to create strong relationships as the leading factors in NicholsBooths success over the past three years. Booth also credits the firms small size to giving the best-quality service to clients. Its all about the relationships, and understanding what the client wants to achieve, Booth said. We are a horizontal firm. The clients get access to the principles, which just doesnt happen at a big firm. The firm serves a wide variety of clients, designing San Diego offices for Bank of America and redesigning SoMa space for Charles Schwab &amp;amp; Co. The firm has also worked on numerous projects for Jones Lang LaSalle and is currently redesigning office and lobby space for the Hearst Corp. at 5 Third St.  Booth admitted the firm has faced growing pains over the past few years. Hiring the right employees is an art form he has tried to master. He founded the firm, then called OttoliniBooth Architects, in 1994 with a former colleague, who in 2005 decided to part ways. In October 2006, Booth joined forces with Gary Nichols. Architecture and entrepreneurship ran in Booths blood; his father was an architect who started his own firm. Booth started his career at architecture giant Gensler and left to start his own firm. Booth is hoping for additional growth in the next few years he would like to add up to six more employees. Its so exciting to be running a firm that is doing better than most architecture firms out there right now, Booth said.
