 pounds of frozen chicken to the Cleveland Food Bank and other charitable organizations Monday as part of a national effort to donate a million pounds of chicken to feed the hungry this winter.   Tyson partnered with the Cleveland Indians and the group Lift Up America for an early Christmas gift to the food bank, which will distribute 305 35-pound boxes of chicken to 400 affiliated agencies in the Cleveland area. That's 10,000 pounds of poultry.   Another 31 Cleveland area agencies gathered at Progressive Field on a bitterly cold day to collect their share of the chicken.   Andy Batten, director of Lighthouse Inc., said the food came at a perfect time for his relief organization. 'Things are so tight that this comes as a welcome gift,' he said. 'We serve children and families in the city's central housing projects and the 500 pounds of chickens we are getting here will go a long way to help those families.' Other recipient groups included the City Mission, the Salvation Army; the Westside Catholic Center and Morning Star Baptist Church.   Karen Pozna, spokeswoman for the Cleveland Food Bank, said some agencies would give the meat directly to needy families. Others would cook the chickens and feed the hungry through soup kitchens. 'It's one of the largest single donations of chicken we've ever seen,' Pozna said. 'And it could not have come at a better time.' The giveaway is part of a national effort organized by Tyson Foods Inc., Lift Up America and professional and college sports organizations to distribute a million pounds of chicken this month.   Thirty-three truckloads of chicken will be delivered around the country.   Indians announcer Tom Hamilton and Indians President Paul Dolan addressed the shivering charity workers and volunteers before the workers unloaded boxes of chickens from the Tyson truck into trucks and vans.   Among the loaders were Indians third-base coach Joel Skinner and pitchers Aaron Laffey and Scott Lewis. The Cleveland Indians are the first Major League Baseball team to partner with Lift Up America to support hunger-relief efforts.   Ed Nicholson, spokesman for Tyson Food Inc., said the company typically donates between 7 million and 10 million pounds of poultry each year to hunger and disaster-relief groups. 'The need is very intense right now,' he said. 'The food banks are getting squeezed by a decrease in donations and an increase in demand because of the economy. We're fortunate to be able to help.' To reach this Plain Dealer reporter:   msangiacomo@plaind.com, 216-999-4890 
