FORT COLLINS The coconut husks were burning and levels of deadly carbon monoxide were jumping on the monitor measuring the gas.   It was another day of testing at Colorado State University's Engines and Energy Conversion Laboratory in an effort to make cooking dinner in a hut 7,700 miles away in India safer. About half the world's population 3 billion people prepare their meals on cook fires of wood, husks, dried dung and other forms of bio mass, according to the World Health Organization.   Those inefficient fires release carbon monoxide, soot benzene, formaldehyde and other toxic pollutants, said Morgan DeFoort, associate director of the lab. 'The levels in a hut, with the mom cooking and the children running around, are often very unhealthy,' DeFoort said. This cookstove air pollution is linked to 1.6 million deaths a year, the World Health Organization estimates.   To combat the problem, the lab and Envirofit International Ltd. are marketing a line of inexpensive and efficient cookstoves. Envirofit a nonprofit corporation created by the lab in 2003 is selling the stoves in India, with plans to expand to Africa and South America in the coming year, according to company marketing manager Jaime Whitlock.   Full-scale marketing began this year in India, and 16,900 stoves have been sold through mid-November, Whitlock said.   The three Envirofit models which are made in China and shipped to India sell for about $12, $25 and $40. In 2009, the company is aiming to sell 250,000 stoves, Whitlock said.   Envirofit's ultimate goal, bolstered by a $25 million pledge from the Shell Foundation in 2007, is to sell 10 million cookstoves worldwide. 'This isn't just about selling a few thousand stoves. We are trying to have a major impact on health in developing countries,' DeFoort said. The stoves designed at the lab burn cleaner and hotter cutting emissions by up to 80 percent and requiring half as much fuel.   And while the current models are efficient, there is always the need for modifications, DeFoort said.   Some changes are social Indian families cook sitting down and South American families tend to cook standing up.   Others are the result of changing materials. In southern India, for example, wood is used in the stoves. In other regions, coconut and rice husks are key fuels.   That's why graduate student Christian L'Orange was feeding husks into a stove housed in a large plexiglass hood that captured the smoke so it could be measured by a bank of electronic and laser sensors. 'Looking kind of smoky,' L'Orange said, offering a less- than-scientific assessment.   L'Orange had just returned from India, where he helped install a test facility at Envirofit headquarters in Bangalore. 'The thing that surprised me most was how everybody uses wood cookstoves even middle-class people with cars,' he said. L'Orange traveled to villages with an Envirofit sales team. 'People know the smoke is bad, and they were interested in the stoves,' he said. 'We'd draw huge crowds in the village square for demonstrations.' 
