It was 'Senate for Sale' in Illinois, where  was arrested Tuesday for what the feds called a 'corruption crime spree'  including charges he tried to sell Barack Obama's Senate seat to the highest bidder.  Giving new meaning to the term 'Chicago-style' politics, Blagojevich tried to shake down government job seekers, newspaper owners and even Team Obama, from which the fellow Democrat schemed to get a top job in return for naming the President-elect's perceived choice to his old Senate seat. 'If I don't get what I want and I'm not satisfied with it, then I'll just take the Senate seat myself,' the blathering Blagojevich said in one FBI-recorded call.   He added that a Senate seat 'is a f------ valuable thing you don't just give away for nothing,' and later called Obama a 'motherf-----' for not seeing things his way.  told a news conference prosecutors make 'no allegations' Obama was aware of any alleged scheming, while the President-elect said later he had no contact with Blagojevich over his replacement. 'I am saddened and sobered by the news that came out of the U.S. Attorneys office today,' the President-elect told reporters.  The startling 76-page complaint also charged Blagojevich with illegally threatening to withhold state aid to Tribune Co., the owner of the Chicago Tribune and the city's storied baseball stadium, Wrigley Field.  In return for state assistance related to the stadium, Blagojevich wanted members of the paper's editorial board who had called for his impeachment to be canned. 'Get em the f--- out of there and get us some editorial support,' a frustrated Blagojevich told one aide, hurling one of his many F-bombs.  In short, the FBI complaint paints a portrait of a foul-mouthed chief executive who saw virtually every gubernatorial decision as a chance for another frisk, all aimed at padding his personal or campaign bank accounts. 'I want to make money,' the affidavit quotes him as saying in one conversation.  The two-term Democrat was arrested at his home shortly after 6 a.m. Tuesday by federal agents who woke him with a phone call as his young children slept, alerting him they were outside his front door. 'Is this a joke?' Blagojevich said, according to FBI special-agent-in-charge Robert Grant.  Fitzgerald later told reporters that Blagojevich 'has taken us to a truly new low' by attempting to sell off a U.S. Senate seat like a 'sports agent.' He added that he moved to expose the probe in order to stop the horse-trading over Obama's seat and other potential injustices, including threats by Blagojevich to withhold funding to a local children's hospital when the CEO was slow to pony up a $50,000 campaign contribution.
