  WESTMINSTER -- Police Chief Sam Albert will be sworn in Wednesday as president of the Central Massachusetts Police Chiefs Association.   The association, which Albert characterized as a 'focus group,' meets once a month to 'share information and resources' to build better overall public safety throughout the Commonwealth. Albert said he earned the role by working his way through the ranks, and said he's 'excited' to assume the role.   A ceremony to swear Albert in will be held Wednesday at 10:30 a.m. at the Wachusett Village Inn on Village Inn Road, alongside Route 2 eastbound.   The association comprises 62 cities and towns throughout the central part of the state, Albert said.   He added that he will offer a speech at the ceremony, which will focus on the increasing importance of cooperation between departments. 'In this time of budget cuts and restraints, more and more we're finding that we're looking to each other for help,' Albert said. For example, he said, Westminster Police sent a police dog Thursday to assist in the Fitchburg Police Department's pursuit of bank robbery suspect James Thayer. The dog, which belonged to Westminster Police Officer Richard Michel, was instrumental in catching Thayer, who attempted to flee from police first by car, then on foot.   The Westminster Police Department's canine lives with Michel at his home, Albert explained.   The Fitchburg and Westminster police departments have signed a mutual aid agreement, AdvertisementAlbert said, allowing for one department to request assistance from the other. Albert said his department has signed such agreements with various municipal police departments, including Ashburnham and Leominster.   In other police business, Albert is urging residents to continue to be vigilant and alert during a recent increase in home break-ins. 'We've gotten about six break-ins in the last six months, which is a lot for a town our size,' Albert said. 'They're near the Fitchburg side of town, around the Bean Porridge Hill Road area.' Albert described the break-ins as 'smash and grab' incidents, where offenders broke through a window or door and quickly grabbed items like TVs and VCRs. 'When we noticed the trend, we sent out a reverse 911 call, telling all residents to be alert and keep communicating with police about anything they see,' he said. 'That's still going on. We've got an active community here, and we're all trying to work together.'
