Posted by Henry J. Gomez and Mark Gillispie/Plain Dealer Reporters December 21, 2008 09:22AM  Categories: News Impact, Real Time News  Marvin Fong/The Plain Dealer  Michael Polensek  CLEVELAND -- When Cleveland City Councilman Michael Polensek couldn't find a favorable loan to buy a foreclosed house on his street this summer, he called in a favor that the average resident in his ward would have been hard-pressed to receive.  Polensek asked the community development agency he funds with federal tax dollars to buy the house for him while he looked for a loan that he liked. Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham Villages Development Corp. did just that, and Polensek bought the home on the far northeast side six weeks later.  Critics say the deal potentially violated several Ohio's ethics laws because of the councilman's close ties with the agency.  Polensek is the founder of Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham, which depends on the councilman for its very survival. The agency has received more than $900,000 from Polensek's annual allocation of community block grant money since 2004.  In 2006, records show, more than 60 percent of the agency's funding came from Polensek.  Ohio ethics laws prohibit public officials from using their office for personal gain, but Polensek, council's loudest watchdog when it comes to corruption and mismanagement, insists that he did nothing wrong.  'Everything's above board,' Polensek said in an interview. 'I asked them ... they did it, and I appreciated it. And they made money on the deal.'  Polensek is currently council's longest-serving member. He did not ask anyone about potential ethical problems before buying the house from the agency, which troubles one good-government advocate.  'You know what's really scary? He didn't even wonder if this was an ethical dilemma,' said Catherine Turcer, director of the Money in Politics Project for the group Ohio Citizen Action. 'That's actually very telling.'  Polensek purchased the house at a time when Cleveland City Council's reputation has taken a hit. Council President Martin Sweeney's name has turned up on subpoenas in a massive, unrelated investigation of corruption among Cuyahoga County politicians. Polensek's colleague Robert White pleaded guilty last week to accepting a $500 bribe after resigning his post in disgrace.  The house Polensek bought is on Brian Avenue, a few doors down from where the councilman lives. Polensek said he wanted the home for his elderly mother-in-law.  U.S. Bank foreclosed on the house after the previous owner could no longer afford his $112,500 refinance mortgage. The owner had tried to sell it, listing it for as much as $150,000. The bank took the property back at sheriff's sale in March.  While the county auditor has valued the property at $97,400 for tax purposes, the bank's realtor put the home on the market for only $29,500 on June 13 because of its poor condition and a badly depressed real estate market.  Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham, at Polensek's request, placed a bid on the home several days after it went on the market. The bid was not accepted, but a real estate agent called the agency's executive director, Yolanda Anderson, two months later and told her the property was still available.  Anderson closed the deal on Aug. 13. Polensek then bought the home Sept. 26 using a purchase and repair loan from Park View Federal Savings Bank.  Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham is one of Cleveland's many community development corporations - CDCs, as they are commonly known - that operate as the neighborhood-improvement arms of City Hall, rehabbing homes and commercial buildings.  Council members hold significant power over the agencies. Each council member receives about $400,000 a year in taxpayer money to spread among CDCs and other groups. The funds come from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  Polensek said he gives Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham between $175,000 and $200,000 a year.  Anderson, head of the agency, said she did not use tax dollars for the purchase. Instead, the agency bought the house with proceeds from other property sales.  Anderson said Polensek did not pressure her to buy the home for him, although she said the property hadn't been on her radar screen until Polensek asked about it. She acknowledged that her agency took a risk in buying the property. The price was more than her agency typically pays for a fixer-upper.  'He asked me to put an offer on it,' Anderson said. 'He said, 'If I can't secure the financing, you could always rehab it and put it back on the market.' '  The Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham board of trustees approved the sale to Polensek, she said.  'Even though we get funding from him, he can't dictate to us,' Anderson said. 'Michael can suggest. If I don't like it, I can tell him where to go.'  Across town, the head of another CDC said the sale of a house to a councilman is a 'serious' conflict of interest.  'The primary relationship for a CDC is the relationship with the councilman,' said Jeff Ramsey, executive director of Detroit-Shoreway Community Development Corp. on the West Side.  Ramsey said he could not envision selling a house to Councilman Matt Zone.  'He would never do that,' Ramsey said. 'He's very concerned about being transparent.'  Polensek said he probably overpaid for the house. He took out a $32,800 mortgage with Park View after making a down payment of nearly $12,000. Polensek would not disclose the interest rate on the loan.  Polensek provided photographs that showed the house was badly in need of repairs, and copies of building permits and receipts for all the work that has been done. He estimated repairs thus far total about $12,000.  Sweeney, often at odds with Polensek, did not return a call seeking comment about his colleague's home purchase. A spokeswoman said Sweeney was unavailable but referred to a prepared statement Sweeney issued Thursday.  In the statement, Sweeney said council members, new and old, would be briefed on Ohio ethics laws after Robert White pled guilty to bribery and resigned.  'I strongly believe it is the role of council to serve the citizens of the city of Cleveland ethically, fairly and with their best interests always in mind,' Sweeney said in the statement.  David Freel, executive director of the Ohio Ethics Commission, declined to comment on the specifics of the deal. But he outlined some general provisions in Ohio's ethics laws, including:   Elected officials are not permitted to use their public office for personal gain.   Ethics laws prohibit public officials from benefiting from a contract between their government entity and the board on which they serve.   Public officials are prohibited from profiting from awards or grants made by their political subdivision.  Polensek believes he broke no laws and that he and Collinwood &amp;amp; Nottingham did nothing wrong.  'Did they help me? Yeah, they helped me,' Polensek said. 'But they helped me because I asked them to do it, and they knew I wasn't going to stick them. And I didn't stick them. They made out from the deal.'  
