DECATUR - When Mark Miller wanted to cook up a fresh future for himself, he moved to Decatur.  The new executive chef at the Country Club of Decatur liked the slower pace of life in Central Illinois and found competitive Decatur house prices very much to his tastes. Miller and his wife, Michelle, closed in November on a city address they described as 'perfect'.The chef was happy to leave behind his former home in the Missouri town of Oakville, 15 minutes outside St. Louis. He said he was being ruined by rampant development and a frenetic pace of life. 'I like the homeliness and friendliness of the Decatur area,' said Miller, 47.'It's very attractive to me, and, well, it's back to simplicity, I suppose.'The Millers are far from alone in wanting to live here. And if they stick around, they will find their housing investment is likely to offer sweet rewards in the long run: A survey by the National Association of Realtors has just named Decatur the second-strongest real estate market in the nation - No. 1 was Elmira, N.Y. - with median third-quarter price growth of 8.7 percent compared to this time last year.  That means the median -half of all prices were above this figure, half below - Decatur housing price of $72,000 in October 2007 jumped to $80,900 in October 2008. And while the effects of the recession have certainly touched Decatur - for the first 10 months of this year, Realtor-led home sales dipped 15.5 percent - the growth in the value of properties being sold bucks a strong national trend in the other direction.  A recent nationwide survey found that average housing prices across the country have been plummeting at an annualized depreciation rate of close to 11 percent for eight months straight.  In some states that were epicenters of the speculative housing bubble, the drop in values has been a death plunge: In the past 12 months, California's housing prices have collapsed by a staggering 30 percent. Nevada saw its prices drop 25 percent, Arizona 21 percent and Florida 17.54 percent. The overall price drop in Illinois came in at 6.93 percent.  Figures from the Decatur Association of Realtors for homes sold up until October show an average sales price of $108,697, but that still makes the city one of the most affordable places to buy a home in America. When CNNMoney.com surveyed housing prices in the cities it judged the best places to live, the average price came back at $293,712, still almost three times what a comparable home would cost in the Decatur area.  Decatur Realtor Glenda Williamson, who has been in the business for 23 years, surveys the local housing scene with satisfaction. She said that while no one can predict what will happen to employment in a recession, the corporate strength of big employers such as Archer Daniels Midland Co., Caterpillar Inc., and labor-intensive operations such as Decatur Memorial Hospital and St. Mary's Hospital have so far helped buoy the housing market here.  To be sure, another factor in stabilizing the local housing market is that Decatur does not have the allure of a coastal, Sun Belt or Desert Southwest community. Its Midwest location no doubt helped deflate price speculation pressures along with what Williamson described as sensible lending practices by local banks and consumers who acted responsibly.'People in this area don't tend to go out and buy a house that is at the top of what the mortgage company is going to loan them,' Williamson added. 'Sure, they would like to buy a house twice the size of what they are buying, but they sit back and say, 'Do we really want this? Do we want to spread ourselves that thin?' It meant that we never had that speculative price balloon that has burst in so many other areas.'Kevin Fritzsche, a broker associate with Brinkoetter and Associates, agrees. He said it was tempting to envy sunny coastal communities that used to enjoy stunning levels of real estate appreciation.'They were growing at unheard of rates while our market trotted along at 2 or 3 percent appreciation,' he added. 'And while we might have been all upset about it at the time and wished we were them, we're now the ones winning the race.'Bankers say Decatur hasn't escaped the widespread economic malaise entirely and point to tightening local lending standards that are a direct fallout from the national credit crunch. Buyers will need at least a 3 percent down payment and solid credit histories to qualify for the best rates.  But the mortgage rates they can get are still attractive, hovering around 6.5 percent.'I can remember when rates were 9.5 or 10 percent,' said Karylle Wike, vice president for mortgage lending at Regions Bank. 'So rates of 6.5 percent are still wonderful, and it's a good time for people to get moving and get out there and buy
