  Why AIG Gets Billions, GM Gets Scorn December 12, 2008 12:05 PM ET    Rick Newman     Permanent Link     Print      Let me see if Im getting this right: AIG, the huge insurance company, has so far gotten $173 billion worth of federal aid, because traders at one small division made bets on exotic securities that were so calamitous they threatened to bring down the whole company. So far, the amount of money the feds have pledged to this one firm equals nearly one-third of the nations defense budget.  General Motors, Americas biggest automaker, has asked for a $10 billion federal loan, equal to one-seventeenth of what AIG has gotten  and Congress has said no. There were no rogue traders at GM, and the companys problems have intensified in plain view, over several months, instead of coming from out of nowhere in a single, cataclysmic episode.    Make sense? Doesnt to me. So maybe if we look at each company a bit more closely, it will be clearer why the government favors companies like AIG over ones like GM.   Is AIG bigger?  No. AIG doesnt break out its U.S. employment numbers, but it has 116,000 workers worldwide. Perhaps half of those are U.S. jobs.  GM employs 96,000 Americans. Total worldwide employment is 252,000, more than twice AIGs.   Are AIG executives humbler?  Not really. Heres how CEO pay stacks up:  Former AIG CEO Martin Sullivan earned about $14 million in 2007. Total pay over the last three years: About $53 million (including only 9 months in 2005, the year he became CEO).  GM CEO Rick Wagoner earned $14.4 million in 2007. Total pay over the last three years: About $30 million.  AIG is also offering controversial retention bonuses, ranging from $92,500 to $4,000,000, to a select group of execs deemed essential to the companys turnaround. Congress has asked questions - but so far shown little outrage.  &amp;nbsp; Has AIG had a regime change?  Yes. Former Allstate CEO Ed Liddy took over the company in September, replacing Sullivan, who presided over a wipeout in credit-default swaps and other exotic investments. The fresh blood pacified critics somewhat.  GM has had no regime change, although key members of Congress have called for that. Wagoner has been running the company since 2000, and the company continues to aggressively defend him.  [ Read a  defense of Rick Wagoner .]   Has AIG presented its turnaround plan to Congress?  Not formally. Theres only been one Congressional hearing on AIG, and that focused mostly on past practices. No current AIG officials have testified before Congress since the feds got involved.  Wagoner has testified before Congress four times since November. And GM has presented a 38-page viability plan, thats publicly available, showing how it would use government money.  [See how the  automakers' bailout plans stack up .]   Does have AIG have friends in high places?  You could say that. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke both support the AIG bailout, and theyve steered money to the company without Congressional approval.  GMs most important friends in Washington have been the Michigan Congressional delegation, which obviously doesnt have the clout it used to. Paulson has actually argued against using part of the huge $700 billion financial bailout fund to help the automakers, because they cant pass a viability test proving theyll stay in business long enough to pay back the loans. But AIG hasnt passed a viability test either, and without federal help theres little doubt it would be in bankruptcy.  [Read about  better ways to handle a multibillion-dollar bailout .]   Does AIG have unionized workers?  Few, if any.  GM has a bunch: 64,000. Ah ha! Maybe that explains it. In fact, Senate Republicans who blocked a $10 billion emergency loan for GM and a $4 billion loan for Chrysler said they wouldnt approve a Detroit bailout unless the United Auto Workers made much deeper concessions than theyve already offered, essentially giving up any advantages they have over non-unionized workers in other states.  So heres one lesson: If you want a government bailout, try to have problems that are too complicated for most people to understand. And make sure your employees are the kind who wear a suit to work every day. Once youve satisfied those two requirements, ask for as much as you want: The coffers are open.    
