       Stiglitz chimes in - says Chapter 11 is the way to go, Shareholders don't deserve to be bailed out.   Chapter 11 is the right road for US carmakers  By Joseph Stiglitz   Published: December 11 2008 20:02   Last updated: December 11 2008 20:02  The debate about whether or not to bail out the Big Three carmakers has been mischaracterised. It has been described as a package to help the undeserving dinosaurs of Detroit. In fact, a plan to bail out the carmakers would benefit shareholders and bondholders as much as anybody else. These are not the people that need help right now. In fact they contributed to the problem.  Financial markets are supposed to allocate capital and monitor that it is used to good effect. They are supposed to be rewarded when they do that job well, but bear the consequences when they fail. The markets failed. Wall Streets focus on quarterly returns encouraged the short-sighted behaviour that contributed to their own demise and that of Americas manufacturing, including the automotive industry. Today, they are asking to escape accountability. We should not allow it.   What needs to be done is to help the automakers get a fresh start and allow them to focus on producing good cars rather than trying to juggle their books to meet past obligations.  The US car industry will not be shut down, but it does need to be restructured. That is what Chapter 11 of Americas bankruptcy code is supposed to do. A variant of pre-packaged bankruptcy  where all the terms are set before going before the bankruptcy court  can allow them to produce better and more environmentally sound cars. It can also address legacy retiree obligations. The companies may need additional finance. Given the state of financial markets, the US government may have to provide that at terms that give the taxpayers a full return to compensate them for the risk. Government guarantees can provide assurances, as they did two decades ago when Chrysler faced its crisis.  With financial restructuring, the real assets do not disappear. Equity investors (who failed to fulfil their responsibility of oversight) lose everything; bondholders get converted into equity owners and may lose substantial amounts. Freed of the obligation to pay interest, the carmakers will be in a better position. Taxpayer dollars will go far further. Moral hazard  the undermining of incentives  will be averted: a strong message will be sent.   Some will talk of the pension funds and others that will suffer. Yes, but that is true of every investment that has diminished. The government may need to help some pension funds but it is better to do so directly, than via massive bail-outs hoping that a little of the money trickles down to the widows and orphans. Some will say that bankruptcy will undermine confidence in Americas cars. It is the cars and carmakers themselves  and the dismal performance of their executives  that have undermined confidence. With industry experts saying $125bn (94bn, 84bn) or more will be needed, with bail-out fatigue setting in, why should US consumers believe that a $15bn gift will do the trick of a turnround?   It is more plausible that confidence will be restored if the industry is freed of the burden of interest payments and is given a fresh start. Modern cars are complex technological products and the US has demonstrated its strength in advanced technology. US workers, working for Japanese carmakers, have shown their hard work can produce cars that are desirable. Americas managers too have demonstrated their managerial skills in many other areas.   The failure lies with the managers of US carmakers and Americas financial markets, which failed in their oversight and encouraged short-sighted behaviour. The bridge loan to nowhere  the down payment on what could be a sinkhole of enormous proportions  is another example of the short-sighted behaviour that got us into this mess.   As the bail-outs continue, numbers that once looked huge are starting to seem almost normal. Hundreds of billons are being given to banks and insurance companies. AIG got $150bn. Compared with that $34bn, or even $125bn, for the automotive industry seems a modest request. Even so, we should not forget that a few months ago, President George W.?Bush said there was not enough money for health insurance for poor children although it cost just a few billion dollars.   Even if Congress does now give carmakers $15bn as a stay of execution, postponing the hard decisions, before the next multi-billon dollar dose of medicine we need to think more carefully about who we are really bailing out and why. This should not end up as just another rescue package for bondholders and shareholders.   http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/1a2e2042-c79f-11dd-b611-000077b07658.html   
