    Gregory Scott wrote:     America is going down... and so is the the World, its a world wide economic depression, you think it isnt going to? I would like to know what makes you feel that it isnt... 500,330 jobs lost in Nov 08... and its going to get worse, chase bank 9200 jobs lost, and on and on it goes, how are the Amreican working class going to make it? The working class is what keeps America going tax wise. Prepare the best you can, buy guns and ammo. Oh by the way blame it where the blame is due, they are called the Federal Reserve Bank, when America is in a big depression the big wheels will buy up all they want for a nickel on the dollar...watch and see.     I live in Michigan and since we border Canada, we pick up a lot of Canadian stations. In turn, many of the Canadian stations run British television. I like to watch the news on the Canadian and British stations because you get a totally different spin than you see on American television. For one thing like you said this is a world wide phenomena right now. But American stations would have us believe it is confined to the US. Also, the Euro autos are in trouble too but their respective governments have already agreed to bail them out. On the flip side, I think the real frightening thing in this is just how is the market being manipulated by Middle Eastern interests. God knows they have been on a buying frenzy in the US for decades now (businesses, land,...)while our government turned a blind eye. My parents live in a rural area in Tennessee and my father told me over 10 years ago that Arabs were buying up property in Tennessee like they owned the state. He also said &amp;#039;get ready for WWIII because at the rate they are going, soon no real American will own anything. Between the oil, outsourced jobs, and the outsourcing of our nation our government should have seen this coming and put a stop to it. I blame our government squarely for the problems in the US right now. All of them Republicans and Democrats. They have all been in it together.
