 NORTON - The PGA Tour Playoffs is just two weeks away and only a limited number of tickets remain for the 2008 Deutsche Bank Championship, Aug. 26-Sept. 1 at TPC Boston.Fans can purchase advance tickets for the Deutsche Bank Championship, the second of four PGA Tour Playoff events, online at www.dbchampionship.com or by telephone at 877-TIX-4DBC.Another sellout is expected as the Deutsche Bank Championship enters its second year as a PGA Tour Playoff event.The Deutsche Bank Championship is expected to field three of this year's major championship winners including Masters champion Trevor Immelman, the 2006 PGA Rookie of the Year, 2007 and 2008 British Open champ and World No. 3 Padraig Harrington, the 16th player to win golf's oldest championship in consecutive years and the first European to do so since 1906, and this week's PGA Championship winner.In addition to defending champion Phil Mickelson, the Deutsche Bank Championship is expected to boast three players currently in the top six on the FedExCup points and PGA TOUR money lists. Kenny Perry, who has won three PGA TOUR events in the last two months and is having a career year at 47; Stewart Cink, who won June's Travelers Championship in Connecticut and is a PGA Player of the Year candidate; and Anthony Kim, the 23-year-old and second-year Tour player who has captured his first two titles at May's Wachovia Championship and July's AT&amp;amp;T National.Other past champions at the Deutsche Bank Championship who are expected in the 2008 field include World No. 8 Adam Scott, the Aussie who won his first PGA event at the inaugural Championship in 2003, and World No. 4 Vijay Singh, the 2004 Deutsche Bank champion from Fiji.The list of the world's top foreigners expected to compete at the Deutsche Bank Championship also extends to include World No. 5 Ernie Els, who has overcome past injures and broke through into the winner's circle for the first time since 2004 by winning this year's Honda Classic; World No. 7 Geoff Ogilvy, the big game hunter who added this year's WGC-CA Championship to go with his 2006 U.S. Open and WGC-Accenture Match Play Championships and the excitable World No. 6 Sergio Garcia, who at 28 racked up his seventh PGA title at May's Players Championship.Garcia, Scott, Immelman and Kim lead an impressive crop of young guns at 28 years of age or under who have won on Tour this year and are in prime position to further their reputation at TPC Boston - Sean O'Hair, J.B. Holmes, D.J. Trahan, Johnson Wagner and Chez Reavie.Other noted Americans expected in this year's Deutsche Bank Championship field are 2003 U.S. Open champion and 13-time PGA winner Jim Furyk, the 13th-ranked player in the world and 12-time PGA TOUR winner Justin Leonard, who has experienced a resurgence in 2008 and ranks No. 7 in the FedExCup standings and on the PGA TOUR money list, and 2007 FedExCup runner-up Steve Stricker, who won the inaugural PGA TOUR Playoff event at the 2007 Barclays.Likeable personalities and fan favorites who carry potent games and are expected to play include Boo Weekley winner of the last two Verizon Heritages, 2008 U.S. Open runner-up Rocco Mediate, and Brandt Snedeker, who finished third at this year's Masters and has won on Tour within the past year.
