  waiting game continues. Barack Obama is expected to reveal his vice-presidential running mate as early as tonight. Among the possible choices are Kansas Governor Kathleen Sebelius (seh-BEEL'-yuhs), Senators Evan Bayh and Joe Biden. One dark horse candidate is Texas Congressman Chet Edwards. Edwards says he has been in contact with the Obama campaign for the past two and a-half months as a potential running mate. (''...be considered.') (SOURCE:The Associated Press) (845p)TAG: Whoever it turns out to be, Obama's vice presidential pick is expected to join him on the campaign trail tomorrow.173 - (Train-Fire)FORT WORTH, Texas. x--12s. A train derailment in central Oklahoma has sent fireballs into the sky but caused no injuries. The derailment occurred close to the town of Luther, about 50 kilometres northeast of Oklahoma City. Television footage showed intense flames and heavy black smoke in the rural area. Firefighters were initially unable to get near the fire because of the heat. Joe Faust, a spokesman for Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway, says the train was obeying speed restrictions for the items it was carrying. (''...or less.') (SOURCE:The Associated Press) (945p)TAG: Eight cars on the 110-car train derailed, seven of which were carrying either crude oil or ethanol.174 - (SPORTS-GOLF-Barclays)PARAMUS, New Jersey. x--09s. Steve Stricker is in position to win The Barclays tournament for the second straight year. He shot a second-round 64 to take a three-shot lead over Hunter Mahan (MAY'-han). Canadian Mike Weir is seven shots out of the lead. Stricker says he didn't feel pressured. (''...day, though.') (SOURCE:ABC) (815p)175 - (SPORTS-GOLF-Barclays)PARAMUS, New Jersey. x--16s. Steve Stricker is in position to win The Barclays tournament for the second straight year. He shot a second-round 64 to take a three-shot lead over Hunter Mahan (MAY'-han). Canadian Mike Weir is seven shots out of the lead. Stricker says he definitely wants to defend his tournament title. (''...to do.') (SOURCE:ABC) (815p)
