 PARAMUS, N.J. - If not for the events of last summer, Steve Stricker probably wouldn't have blinked at news that The Barclays was moving away from Westchester Country Club in Harrison.The 41-year-old Wisconsin native had played the longtime tournament site once earlier in his career, and he fared poorly enough that he vowed never to return.  Then Stricker came back for the first leg of the FedExCup playoffs last August, won his first tournament in six years there and had reason to grow nostalgic.'All of a sudden it was the best golf course in the world,' Stricker, who edged K.J. Choi by two strokes last year, said via conference call at yesterday's Barclays Media Day. 'It's funny how your perception of things can change when you've had success at a place.'Now, though, the defending Barclays champion is like everyone else adjusting to the idea of the tournament once known as the Westchester Classic being played somewhere other than Westchester.After 41 years at the Harrison club, the tournament will be played here at Ridgewood Country Club from Aug. 21-24 as part of PGA Tour's blueprint to rotate the event to different venues around the New York metropolitan area. On deck for next summer is a move to the new high-end Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, N.J., with hosts beyond that still to be determined.After a drawn-out, public standoff with Westchester officials over the fate of the tournament, the PGA Tour finally did agree to return The Barclays to Westchester at least one more time before 2012, but the two sides say they haven't discussed when it will return.Meanwhile, the tour says it also has its eyes on untapped segments of the New York area, specifically Long Island.'That's absolutely on our radar,' said David Pillsbury, the tour's executive vice president of Championship Management, which owns and operates The Barclays. 'We haven't discussed any specific properties, but it would be wonderful, and if you were able to do that, you really would have touched the greater metropolitan area. And I think the benefit associated with a rotation strategy won't be seen until after the completion of this event and then after Liberty. Because then people are going to start to get it.'By some accounts, the benefits already are being seen. After lackluster attendance at Westchester in recent years, The Barclays, according to tournament director Peter Mele, is enjoying a resurgence in northern New Jersey. Although the tour doesn't release specific attendance figures, Mele says attendance revenue is five times what it was at the same point prior to last year's event, and that the Ridgewood event's revenue already has doubled the total figures for 2007.'I think a lot of it is the change in venue, just because it's fresh and something new,' Mele said. 'You're coming to a new market, where the PGA Tour hasn't been at all.'Which is not to say the move has been seamless. While Mele and his staff had grown familiar with the landscape at Westchester, and have even had more than two years to prepare for next summer's tournament at Liberty National, the move to Ridgewood wasn't finalized until last January.'The challenge here is you've never built on the property before, so you don't really know what things to look out for and where your problems are going to come from,' Mele said. 'So a lot of times you design everything on paper in February and March, and then you go to actually build it. It looks good on paper, but until you're out there, you don't know.'Note: Three Westchester golfers were selected to represent the First Tee of Metropolitan New York in The Barclays Tri-Match. Mount Vernon's Tyler McCaine, 15, and Skye McCaine, 14, and Yonkers' Paul Toohey, 15, were included on a team that will play against First Tee teams from Massachusetts and Ireland at The Country Club of Brookline, Mass., on Aug. 18.Reach Sam Weinman at sweinman@LoHud.com. 
