 PARAMUS  Harry Lake caddied 18 holes Wednesday at Ridgewood Country Club during the pro-am tournament for The Barclays.No big deal. Just another day at the office. An office of pristine green fairways, rough and putting surfaces shaded by decades-old trees towering toward a crisp, blue sky as Lake performed a job hes done since Dwight D. Eisenhower was president.First term.At 89, as hes done since 1954, the lifelong resident of Wyckoff lugs golf bags across hills and valleys where he once caddied for Jack Nicklaus before the 1990 U.S. Senior Open, a long-forgotten pro named Alexandra Reinhardt at the LPGAs 1981 Coca-Cola Classic, a player he cant remember during the 1976 U.S. Amateur, plus countless members and guests.With a pacemaker in his chest, two different shades of lenses in his glasses after cataract surgery, and his wife, Edna, now gone for almost five years, he carries a golf bag as often as six or seven days a week. For that he got $3 plus a $1 tip when he first arrived. Now he gets $70.I like to keep busy, he said Wednesday after working in pro Jeff Quinneys group. I cant sit that long in the house. If Im not going to do something working, Im going to be out walking, anyway.Mike Fluff Cowan has been bagman for three decades on the PGA Tour, where he was Tiger Woods first caddy and now works for Jim Furyk. I hope to do it as long as I can, he said. But I cant imagine Ill be 89 and doing it.Cowans a mere 60.Lake started while working for the Susquehanna Railroad, where he became friendly with a co-worker who played at Ridgewood. The friend asked if Lake would consider working at the club so the two could play together on Mondays, when caddies were allowed to play.Already a golfer who played public courses in and around Bergen County, Lake saw it as his entry into a different side of the sport.Once I started caddying, I wasnt going to pay for golf [anymore], he said. I could come over here and play for nothing. I could play on the nicest golf course there is.He played in the high 70s at one point and continued to play well enough into his later years that he remembers shooting his age several times. The last time he can recall was at age 85.He played at Ridgewood with a group known as the Dawn Patrol, whod sometimes gather on days when the temperature was in the single digits to play in conditions now considered off-limits by superintendents worried about damage to their courses.He played beneath trees at Ridgewood he insists dont look any bigger now than they did in 1954 because, Theyre old trees. These trees have been around here a long time. They were big when I came here.Amid those trees, however, his fondest memory as a caddy didnt come from working for Nicklaus or meeting other golf legends such as Chi Chi Rodriguez and Champagne Tony Lema.It came at the 1985 Metropolitan Amateur, in a match against renowned area amateur George Zahringer (who eventually won the tournament five times), working for a golfer Lake remembers only as a schoolteacher from Connecticut.Telling a story a Ridgewood member said may have legs, Lake described how his player needed to make a 65-foot putt on the next-to-last hole to tie the match with Zahringer.I was reading putts for him all day long, Lake recalled. He had 11 one-putt greens.He said, Do you have any miracles left, Harry? I walked with him across the green and I said, This is dumb luck if its going in the hole. I read it right for him, but the fact that it went in was dumb luck.Zahringer eventually won the match, but to Lake, that story describes a day when he was a good caddy, doing what he was supposed to do for his golfer.The members thought I was a genius, he said.The members (and his fellow caddies) also thought enough of him four years ago to honor him at a 50th anniversary dinner and erect a plaque that now sits above a bench in the Ridgewood caddy shed. It reads: To Harry Lake, thank you for fifty years of dedicated service. The members of Ridgewood Country Club.Lake and his fellow club caddies wont work the next four days, since pros travel with their own caddies. But hell be back as soon as the members get their course back again, back for as long as he can.Im going to keep caddying until Im too tired to do it, he said. When you cant keep up, then youve got to Got to do something hes resisted for more than a half-century: Put down his final golf bag.
