 It was fitting Phil Mickelson rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. Troubling news on inflation rattled Wall Street shortly after, with the Dow Jones Industrial average falling 132 points on the day to close at 11,348. Phils stock as a player is in some serious need of rallying if hes going to hold his No. 2 spot in the world rankings over Padraig Harrington. He is paired with Harrington this week at The Barclays . . .Hunter Mahan posted a 62 today at The Barclays this morning, his fifth 62 as a PGA Tour pro. His 81 in the opening round of the PGA Championship was a bad sign about how he might handle the scrutiny that would follow his controversial comments about Ryder Cuppers being slaves of the PGA, but if this guys going to get hot before Paul Azinger makes his captains picks on Sept. 2, he can make the team. If Mahan's pouring in birdies down the stretch, it will be difficult for Azinger to pass on him. I thought Mahan would bring a hornets nest with him if he made the team, but his remorseful comments make it doubtful. Hes backing down on those opinions and backing off, and thatll take the sting out of the controversy . . .Did you see the FedEx Cup Playoffs commercial, where NHL great Wayne Gretzky advises Mike Weir not to shave through the playoffs, a practice NHL players often adhere to in their own postseason? Though Weir doesnt have the cave man beard he sports in the commercial, hes actually not shaving, according to a note on www.pgatour.com . . .About the Ryder Cup, Tim Rosaforte of Golf World and The Golf Channel says he would load up with youthful rookies with his four picks if he were captain. If Azinger is right, and experience is potentially just bad experience in the case of American Ryder Cup players, it is possible well see seven rookies on the American team. Three  Boo Weekley, Anthony Kim and Ben Curtis have already made it on points. PGA.com is conducting its own online poll. Rocco Mediate, (17 percent), Steve Stricker (16 percent), Woody Austin (10 percent) and Zach Johnson (10 percent) lead. All but Johnson would be Ryder Cup rookies.
