 Padraig Harrington insists he will be ready to return to action at the Barclays on Thursday - the first leg of the FedEx Cup play-offs - despite the fall-out from his USPGA triumph.  The Dubliner clinched his third major crown at Oakland Hills just over a week ago despite claiming he was still suffering from the mental and physical fatigue of winning his second at Royal Birkdale some three weeks previous.Harrington spent the week following his USPGA triumph holidaying with his family in North Carolina, but is now straight back into competitive action once again as he tees it up at Ridgewood Country Club.The 36-year-old concedes he would have happily extended his break from the course, but maintains he feels more than ready to compete at the Barclays with the lucrative FedEx Cup race providing ample incentive. 'It was an interesting week,' Harrington said of his holiday. 'I sat by the pool for most of it and come Sunday I was thinking I would like to sit there for another week. 'But the FedEx Cup is what is attracting me out here again this week and the idea of it is to get players out to compete at this time of year. 'After two majors you think, 'well, I could do with a rest' but there are other things to play for so that's why I'm here this week. 'I'm certainly putting the effort in this week. I did make sure I rested last week and I've got a little bit of experience now from winning these majors, so I knew what to do afterwards. 'I believe I will be ready but I'm never truly able to tell until I'm into the tournament and I can see how I play.' Harrington remains mindful of his slow recovery from his first major win at Carnoustie in 2007 when he struggled for form in the aftermath of his Open Championship success. 'I remember last year I struggled in the first couple of the FedEx Cup tournaments and I did end up having to pull out of a tournament because I was fatigued,' he continued. 'This time round I feel better and stronger. I'm motivated, there's lots to play for.' Harrington is a former winner of the Barclays having emerged triumphant in 2005, although his win came at Westchester Country Club in New York.This year's tournament will take place across the Hudson River at New Jersey's Ridgewood Country Club and Harrington likes the look of the new setting. 'I'm looking forward to playing it,' he added. 'The Barclays is on a very nice golf course. 'I played 12 holes yesterday, it's a good, old-style golf course and it will be an interesting week. 'There'll be some good scoring, some difficult, tricky holes out there as well - it looks like it will be a good tournament.'
