 Padraig Harrington never will lose his patience, his temper or his desire to make his old man proud. He has accepted more recent handshakes than anyone on the planet not named Barack Obama, John McCain or Michael Phelps, and yet there he was at the Ridgewood Country Club, still carrying himself with ample dignity and grace.Under a hot sun, before, during and after a Monday session on the range that wouldve made Ben Hogan proud, the worlds greatest active golfer had a minute or three for every player, caddie, Barclays official and autograph seeker who approached to share in his glow.Harrington had a singular motive: The man who gave him his name wouldve expected no less.My father was always more concerned with how I behaved on the golf course than anything else, Harrington said.Paddy Harrington was a Gaelic football star in his day, and an Irish cop tough enough to enforce an unspoken law that applied from tee to green. The youngest of his five boys never had to be warned about heaving a 3-iron into a pond, or breaking a putter over his knee or berating a fan who had requested a moment of his occupied time.I wouldnt dare, Padraig said.He couldnt bring himself to let his father down.Three years back, when The Barclays was held at Westchester, Harrington arrived at the tournament a broken man. His father was dying in Ireland, a victim of esophageal cancer. Padraig had missed the cut at the Masters and had pulled out of two tournaments because of Paddys deteriorating condition. The stress was a hazard the golfer couldnt clear.And just like that, Padraig decided he would start smiling again, start enjoying himself win, lose or draw. He took that Barclays on a magical 65-foot double breaker for eagle on the 72nd hole, raised his arms toward the sky and accepted the trophy from Prince Andrew.Padraig then boarded a plane at JFK to go home and say his goodbyes. A couple of weeks later, he withdrew from the British Open to serve with his four older brothers as pallbearers for their fathers funeral.Monday, Harrington returned to The Barclays an entirely different figure on the sports landscape. Hes a three-time major champion, the first European to successfully defend his British Open title in more than a century and the first European to win the PGA in more than three-quarters of a century.No matter what the official rankings or FedEx Cup standings say, Harringtons three victories in the last six Grand Slam events make him the second-best player alive, and the very best player at a time when Tiger Woods is recovering from surgery on a left leg that was so frayed it looked like a chew toy.So 13 days away from his 37th birthday, Harrington was asked if the one thing missing from his suddenly charmed career was the sight of his father watching from the ropes.My feeling about it now is that he is here, that he does know Ive won three majors, he said. Yes, physically it would be nice if he were here and involved, but I never had to play golf to please my dad, never had to win tournaments or majors to make him happy or justify anything.He had his own career and he never lived through me.But Padraig has inherited Paddys toughness, theres no doubt about that. The putts he needed to make to beat Sergio Garcia in a playoff at Carnoustie, and again in regulation at Hogans Monster, Oakland Hills, where he shot 66-66 on the weekend? The 32 he shot on the final nine at Royal Birkdale with a bum wrist and with all of creation pulling for 53-year-old Greg Norman to weather the howling winds?Yes, theres a middle linebacker living inside this genial cousin of a quarterback, Joey Harrington.Padraigs no longer the pudgy kid with the ugly swing who never dreamed the impossible dream. In more realistic times, he took college accounting courses on the assumption hed never be good enough to make it on the European tour.I still cant believe it, Harrington said. I thought Id be working in the golf industry, but then I started beating the guys who were turning pro, so I turned pro. Obviously I never expected to achieve the levels Ive achieved. But I always improved. Thats the one good trait I have  Im a person who improves.Harrington has evolved from a contender known for painfully slow play and second-place finishes into a consistent winner who willingly stares into the eye of the Tiger. Among all men who have been paired with Woods at least five times, Harrington is the only one whose scoring average is better than Tigers in those meetings (68.83 to 69.50).Im competing with myself all the time, Padraig said. Its all about me playing my game. If Tigers here and he plays better than me, Ill shake his hand and say, Well done.  But I cant play against one player. Theres no point in doing that.Not when Harrington is beating opponents by the dozens. His first two practice-round swings at Ridgewood, after his long session on the range, produced a perfect drive that split the first fairway and an easy wedge that left him in short birdie range.Harrington hit a number of putts on the first green, nailing most of them, before heading with his caddie, Ronan Flood, to the second hole. Harrington said he appreciates the Irish-American fans who support him in this market, and likes playing in the area because the events here have a little razzmatazz to them.Padraigs presence has added to the postseason buzz. People do look at me differently now, after the majors, he said, even though I havent changed as a person.The worlds greatest active golfer hasnt changed because a certain Irish cop from the south side of Dublin never wouldve allowed it.Starting Wednesday at The Barclays, Record columnist Ian OConnor will sign copies of his book, Arnie &amp;amp; Jack: Palmer, Nicklaus, and Golfs Greatest Rivalry, at the Ridgewood Chamber of Commerce tent.
