 The FexExCup doesn't have Tiger Woods this year, but it does have a new format.The difference in points between positions in the standings is half of what it was last year, and each position is worth 2,000 more points.Woods' absence and the structural changes should produce a more thrilling playoff with literally anyone from Kenny Perry, who leads in points, to Lee Janzen, who is last at 144th, having a chance to win the $10 million first prize. 'In theory you should have a better chance if you play well,' said Carl Pettersson, who moved to 13th with his victory last week in the Wyndham Championship. 'Everybody wants to see more movement. Hopefully, they will get it right this year.' Last year Woods, who is recovering from knee surgery, skipped The Barclays and returned to finish tied for second at the Deutsche Bank, first at the BMW Championship and first at the Tour Championship. He could have sat out the Tour Championship and still won the $10 million first prize. No one anticipates any of the other players doing that this year. 'If Kenny Perry can do what Tiger Woods did last year, he could skip one,' said Steve Dennis, who crunches the numbers for the PGA Tour. 'Unless you can do that, it will be hard to win and not play all four.' Dennis doesn't think the Tour has turned the Cup into a crapshoot, with victory hinging on a role of the dice, but he expects a lot of movement, especially among the top players. 'You'll see guys you would expect to see at the top of the leaderboard and the top of the standings,' he predicted. 'The guys at the top have an advantage because they have been playing better this year.' Dennis noted that a player who is 70th in the standings could win this weekend and jump to the top of the standings, but to win the Cup he'd have to back it up with more top finishes, maybe even another win. 'We're looking for consistent excellence,' Dennis said. 'One win will get you to the top, but it won't keep you there.' The three top players  Perry, Phil Mickelson and Padraig Harrington  have multiple wins this year. Harrington has won two major championships (British Open and PGA), which reward the most points.Dennis believes they could miss a cut in one of the playoff events and still win the Cup.Perry and Harrington are among what he calls 'the hot players' guys who have played their best over the last eight weeks. Others on the hot list are Anthony Kim, Chez Reavie, Vijay Singh, Fredrik Jacobson and Pettersson. There is another group of players who have played well but not won. They include Robert Allenby, Jim Furyk, Stuart Appleby and Steve Stricker, who won The Barclays last year and finished second to Woods in the final standings.Last year Rich Beem made the field at 134th, finished seventh in The Barclays and 30th in the Deutsche Bank, but he failed to advance to the BMW. Beem is back this year and should he finish seventh this week he would move up to 68th and have a much better chance of advancing. 'We have given everybody who makes the playoff a chance to win, just like a playoff in baseball or the NFL,' Beem said. Janzen had only one top-10 finish this year, but he made the field by tying for 15th at the Wyndham. Mathematically, he could win the Cup. 'But keep in mind,' Dennis said, 'if Lee wins this week it would be like the 65th seed in the NCAA basketball tournament beating the No. 1 seed.' But in basketball, the loser goes home. In the FedExCup, he stays for at least another week.
