 As England's Paul Casey lined up a 22-foot birdie putt on the 18th hole Sunday at Ridgewood Country Club in the final round of The Barclays, golf analyst and European Ryder Cup captain Nick Faldo was watching from above in his customary position in the CBS tower. 'If he makes this,' Faldo told the listening audience, 'he's on the team.' Casey, hoping to impress Faldo enough to become one of the two captain's picks to fill out the European Ryder Cup squad, made the putt.Faldo had to eat his words. 'OK, OK, I can't quite make up my mind yet,' said Faldo, who will announce his captain's picks Sunday. When told of what Faldo said, Casey replied, 'Oh, we've got that on tape. Lawyers will have a field day with that one.' Casey was kidding, of course, but his prospects for the biennial battle with the USA on Sept. 19-21 at Valhalla Country Club in Louisville went up as fast as his last putt dropped. Casey, a member of Europe's last two winning teams, finished in a tie for seventh in The Barclays, his fifth consecutive strong outing. Darren Clarke, who played in the last five Ryder Cups, also pushed himself to the forefront of Faldo's mind with a win in the European Tour's KLM Open in the Netherlands last week.Six Europeans are vying for three automatic qualifying spots, with Justin Rose, Soren Hansen and Oliver Wilson occupying the final three of the 10 automatic berths heading into this week's Johnnie Walker Championship on the European Tour and the Deutsche Bank Championship on the PGA Tour. Martin Kaymer, Ross Fisher and Nick Dougherty are best placed to supplant them. Those on the outside of the top 10, a list that will include Casey, Clarke and Ian Poulter, will add to a large pool of players Faldo will choose from. 'The Ryder Cup is at the back of my mind right now,' Casey said. 'I'd love to be on that team. Darren has put the cats amongst the pigeons by winning. And we've got Poulter in there. It's going to be tough. (Faldo) is keeping his cards close to his chest.' So is U.S. captain Paul Azinger, who has long said he would use his four captain's picks on players who are hot. Unfortunately for Azinger, who will announce his picks next Tuesday, many of his potential choices are lukewarm.Or downright cold.Woody Austin, Sean O'Hair, Zach Johnson, D.J. Trahan, Rocco Mediate, David Toms and Jeff Quinney missed the cut in The Barclays. Johnson and Toms also missed advancing to the second round of the FedExCup Playoffs by finishing out of the top 120 heading into the Deutsche Bank.Steve Stricker, who finished one spot out of automatically qualifying for the team, tied for 19th. Other potential suitors for Azinger's team include Bubba Watson (T12), Jerry Kelly (T19), J.B. Holmes (T24), Hunter Mahan (T31) and Brandt Snedeker (T68). 'It's been difficult to try to shove that in the back of my mind, because it keeps coming up,' Stricker said. 'It keeps presenting itself to me that I very much want to be on that team, so I've always got to try to put it back and concentrate on what's at hand, and that's playing good golf. 'I've got two tournaments going on within one. That's basically what I feel like. I'm trying like heck to keep (the Ryder Cup) out of my mind, but it's nearly impossible. I want to make that team. I think I could help that team.'
