 ug. 21--Pro golf never seemed farther away than it does this week, with the PGA Tour in Paramus, N.J., rather than its old home at the Westchester Country Club. As far as Long Island fans are concerned, it might as well be in Kansas.Let's face it, not many folks are all that eager to make that two-bridge jaunt to catch a little golf. Going to Westchester was pushing it, but it did feel almost like a home game. Paramus definitely is a road trip, and -- even though the Barclays tournament does start the ballyhooed playoffs -- probably not worth the effort.What it means is that other than the U.S. Open maybe once every seven years, Long Islanders are out of luck when it comes to seeing PGA Tour players. That's like not having hockey games in Montreal. 'This is the mecca of golf in this country,' said Scott Dexter, proprietor of the City Cellar restaurant in Westbury, a gathering spot for athletes and fans. 'Some of the finest courses in the world are here. This is where golf is.' Dexter said that he had planned to take a day off from work to go see the Barclays until he remembered that it is not in Westchester, the tournament's only home since its inception in 1967.The Barclays will bounce around a little, going to Liberty National in Jersey City and heading back to Westchester at least once more. Tour officials had talked about holding it occasionally at Bethpage, but state officials wisely said they want the Black Course to remain an Open site (as it will be next year) and that it wouldn't be fair to make local daily fee golfers give up their course for a while every year.Still, it's too bad that the two-county region that gave golf its foothold in the United States, not to mention customs like the $2 Nassau, is out of the loop.Some people are trying hard to sustain Long Island's Champions Tour stop, which lost its title sponsor when Commerce Bank decided not to renew. Dexter, a member of the tournament's board of directors, said there are active discussions with Island businesses.Bill Oakley, director of tournament business affairs for the Champions Tour, said, 'There is genuine interest in the event. We just want to ensure it is as stable and successful as we feel it can be.' At the moment, there is no date, site or sponsor for the event that began in 1987 as the Northville Invitational.Dauntless, we make this long-term proposal: Put Long Island in the Ryder Cup rotation.Imagine a Bethpage-type crowd, reminiscent of the 2002 Open, screaming for one team. The United States would have a home-course advantage like it never has had before. It's amazing the PGA of America, which runs the U.S. side in the biennial matches against Europe, hasn't thought of this.Sad to say, the Ryder Cup is booked until 2024, but many of us still can hope to see it in our lifetimes and to start a tradition for future generations. Although the PGA of America tends to steer clear of courses that are aligned with the USGA, meaning Bethpage might be unavailable, there are many Long Island courses that would be much better than anything they play the Ryder Cup on now.Island golf cognoscenti, approached with this idea, enthusiastically nominated Meadow Brook and Piping Rock. Glen Oaks also was mentioned. Any of them would attract the same vocal fans that the Bethpage Open did.The United States has been so overmatched in recent Ryder Cups that officials have made all sorts of hand-wringing suggestions, such as changing the format and player selection process. What they really need are the lungs of a New York/Long Island crowd. The only thing comparable would be having the Ryder Cup where they hold the raucous FBR Open in Phoenix (which also would be a good idea). Imagine how loud a 'U-S-A' chant would be around here. In that atmosphere, it would be hard to imagine the United States falling flat. 
