 Three-time major winner Vijay Singh will be the star attraction at the 5.1 million dollar PGA Wyndham Championship which begins here Thursday. The world number five missed the cut last week at the 90th PGA Championship, shooting back-to-back 76s as he struggled on the greens at Oakland Hills.'I'm pretty confident. I'm hitting the ball really well, which is good, tee to green I'm really well,' Singh said. 'I'm working on my putts a little bit. I feel good about the way I'm swinging the club.'The 45-year-old Fijian-Indian has 31 career USPGA Tour victories including a win two weeks ago at the WGC-Bridestone in Akron, Ohio. He has earned 3.9 million dollars in 17 tournaments this year.So he could turn a good year into a great year with another victory.'I'm working on my putting,' Singh said. 'I'm working the best to my ability to fix it, you know, and I think it's improving. It's a step but it's improving.'Singh said it would be a nice change to play a shorter course than the PGA Championship's Oakland Hills course which drew criticism from the players last week for the way it was set up.'It's (Sedgefield) a fun golf course to play.' Singh said.'I think everybody can enjoy it over here. It's not very long so you don't really need, you know, to hit driver every hole.'A lot of guys coming over here -- it's a tight enough golf course where you can enjoy it as well. It requires attention and there's a lot of tricky holes out there. It's got a lot of variety.'With three more events before American Ryder Cup captain Paul Azinger chooses his four wild card selections to round out his 12-man team to take on Europe, American Davis Love knows he must play well this week and next to have any chance of earning one of those picks.The only problem is that Love is a longshot. He is 150th on the PGA Tour FedEx Cup standings, and won't get a chance to even play next week unless he can vault into the top 144 on the standings after Sunday's final round here at Sedgefield.He needs a top-30 finish to have any chance of qualifying for next week's Barclays Championship, the first of four events in the cup playoff series.Love, 44, has played in five Ryder Cups, with a career record of just nine wins, 12 losses and five halves.Love's losing record might also work against him. Azinger said on Monday that he is looking to bring new blood into the team and players who weren't part of the recent losing American teams.Bureau Report 
