 NORTON, Mass.  With the sand in the Ryder Cup hourglass slipping to the bottom, many of the players vying for the final four slots on Paul Azingers team jockeyed for position on Saturday in the second round of the Deutsche Bank Championship. Some did so successfully, others did not. Those on the top of the list  Steve Stricker (9), D.J. Trahan (10), Woody Austin (11) and Hunter Mahan (12)  all made positive statements. Azinger will likely find a bulk of his selections in this group. Sticker, who in some minds is a lock for a Ryder Cup berth, followed up a T-19 last week at The Barclays with a 4-under 67 in the second round of the Deutsche Bank. Currently tied for 34th at 6-under 136, Stricker is ranked 10th in the world rankings and has to be Azingers top pick. I want it to be over, the selection, Stricker said after making the cut on Saturday. Its been hard and its been on my mind a lot. Once a strong consideration for the team, Woody Austin hasnt shown much in his final chances to impress Azinger. Missing cuts at the PGA Championship and The Barclays hasnt done much for Aquaman, who won American hearts at last years Presidents Cup. Austin, however, proved he has mettle by rebounding from a double bogey on No. 10, his first hole of the second round at Deutsche Bank, to eventually shoot 5-under 66 and make the cut. Serious grind, Austin said of his 66. Thats probably the best comeback I ever made to need 7-under the last 15. Trahan also missed the cut at The Barclays, but is showing signs of life at Deutsche Bank. After rounds of 67-66, Trahan is at 9-under 133 and in a tie for 13th. I kind of feel the Clemson Tigers today. Its game day, Trahan said of the days pressure. I told myself I needed to have a top 10 this week. Last week was a freaky week for me, no matter what I did, I didnt make any putts, I didnt get any breaks and how frustrating can it be when youre trying to make the Ryder Cup team to miss the cut in the one time you cant miss it. Hunter Mahan made a partial statement last week at Barclays when he opened with a 62, but could not hang on and eventually finished T-31. After a 1-under 70 in Fridays first round, Mahan knew he would have to play better to make the cut and still have a chance for the Ryder Cup team. One-over through his first eight holes, Mahan knew he would have to kick it in gear. When the dust settled, Mahan shot a 7-under 64 and was 8-under for the last 10 holes. The move allowed him to make the cut and made a mini-statement to Azinger and put him in contention at T-22. I was extremely focused out there today, Mahan said after his back-nine 30. I wanted to play well for obvious reasons, and myself personally. It was an important round for me, I was just grinding my butt off out there trying to get everything I could out of it. 
