 PARAMUS  The last time his tour stopped in New Jersey, Phil Mickelson was bigger than Bruce. He had just won the PGA Championship at Baltusrol, and nearly two hours after his clinching putt dropped on command, Mickelson confronted a wave of delirious fans that wouldve made a rock star buckle.He had negotiated the bowels of Baltusrol to find a top-secret exit. Mickelson was trying to slip out of the state and back to that easy Lefty life before swinging open a door and finding this raging pile of humanity separating him from his getaway car.He shouldve known better. During the victory presentation, Mickelson told the people of New Jersey, Thank you for being who you are. A fan would interrupt the ceremony with a shout for Phil to join him at the shore for a couple of beers.Mickelson was suddenly a multiple Grand Slam champ, not the one-and-done wonder from the 2004 Masters. He was a son of San Diego who had somehow been made more welcome in the Garden State than an E-Z Pass lane.So even when the tournament ended on a manic Monday, a workday, the fans were waiting for him long after hed tapped his 3-wood on the Jack Nicklaus plaque in the 18th fairway and made the deciding birdie. Some burly troopers tried to part the sea to the winners car, but the fans collapsed around Mickelson and wouldnt let him open his door.Now the golfer has a little more room to breathe. Back in Jersey three years later, Phil doesnt radiate the same kind of heat. Hes still a star, a big one at that, and a player who maintains an inexplicable bond with a market that sits 3,000 miles from his childhood.Only on a Chamber of Commerce day at Ridgewood Country Club, pro-am day at The Barclays, Mickelson didnt draw the type of gallery one would expect for the worlds second-most recognizable player. Phil attracted more fans than the rest of the field, of course, but at times it appeared no more than 100 people were watching him.Maybe all that changes Thursday morning, in the first round of the tours first playoff leg, when Mickelson tees off for real as the most compelling figure in a sport recovering from Tiger Woods injuries. Maybe thousands of ticketholders will make it their business to follow the headline group of Mickelson, Padraig Harrington and Kenny Perry, mostly because Phil is Phil.But large gallery or not, Mickelson should realize his career has reached a crossroad. At 38, more than 28 months removed from his third and last major championship, Mickelson is locked in neutral and gaining no ground on the surgically altered Woods.Harrington, not Mickelson, is the best active player, and Anthony Kim sounds hungry enough to blow past Phil in the near future. Asked Wednesday how much he was motivated to become Tigers defining rival, Kim said, Id give my left arm to be that guy.Mickelson long ago surrendered to Woods, conceding that even a sustained attack of prosperity wouldnt allow him to match Tigers tally of majors and tour victories. It was common sense talking.But as Woods closed in on Nicklaus record of 18 Grand Slam titles, Mickelson stepped to the 72d tee at Winged Foot two years back looking exactly like the man Thomas Bjorn, runnerup at Baltusrol, predicted he would be. Hes a 10-major guy, Bjorn had said.Mickelson was on the verge of winning his third consecutive Grand Slam event in the middle of Tigers prime when his Winged Foot ambitions smacked into a tent, a tree, and a bunker. Ever since that disastrous double bogey, Mickelson has finished out of the top 15 in nine of ten majors.His people will assign some blame to the wrist injury, and will remind you that Phil did win the Players Championship last year and did outduel Woods at the Deutsche Bank. Yet even the most blind believer in Mickelson has to admit Phils game is in a diminished state.I feel like Im close, Mickelson said Wednesday. I feel like Ive been playing some pretty good golf. I havent taken it to that last level of winning, but Ive been just below.Mickelson has the look of a guy whos searching for forests among the trees. Instead of seeing the ball and hitting the ball, Mickelson is applying too much science to strokes that are better shaped by instinct and feel.Hes not finding enough fairways and his short game is a mess. Butch Harmon is scrambling for answers and Dave Pelz, the old NASA physicist, is probably a club that should be taken out of Mickelsons bag.Paralysis by analysis is no way for Phil to approach the final four or five holes of his prime. He could use a new energy source, a new groove, before its too late.As Tiger hunted the Bear, Mickelson appeared ready to track Arnold Palmers take of seven majors, and to do it with some Arnie flair. Now Phils stuck on three  the same number that stopped contemporaries Ernie Els and Vijay Singh  and looking more wobbly than ever on the climb to No. 4.Its just his luck, but no Grand Slam substitute is found in the form of The FedEx Cup and its $10 million grand prize. The majors have had that sense of history that is hard to replace in just two years, Mickelson said.He loves Ridgewood, anyway, and prefers it to The Barclays previous Westchester home. A.W. Tillinghast, designer, was responsible for Baltusrol and Winged Foot. Mickelson doesnt want Ridgewood to mirror Winged Foot too much.Well, the 18th hole doglegs right, not left, he said of Ridgewood, so thats a nice change.Mickelson needs change more than anything. In this market, his home away from home, hell remain the same good sport who signed 176 autographs in the hour after he lost another U.S. Open at Shinnecock in 2004.But tee to green, somethings got to give. Mickelson needs to do the same work on his aim that he did on his physique.Times running low. Nobody gets to be a rock star forever.Thursday at The Barclays, Ian OConnor will sign copies of his book, Arnie &amp;amp; Jack: Palmer, Nicklaus, and Golfs Greatest Rivalry, at the Ridgewood Chamber of Commerce tent.
