 PARAMUS, N.J.  Steve Stricker is right at home at Ridgewood Country Club  and the top of The Barclays leader board.A year after winning across the Hudson at Westchester Country Club, the Wisconsin player shot a 7-under 64 in perfect morning conditions Friday to take a three-stroke lead over Hunter Mahan in the FedEx Cup playoff opener. This reminds me of home to tell you the truth, Stricker said. This looks like a course that could be very easily in the Midwest somewhere. It reminds me of Medinah a lot. The grasses are the same. We putt on poa annua greens a lot where Im from. Its bentgrass fairways, bluegrass rough and everything reminds me of home. Stricker, 21st in the FedEx Cup standings, had a 10-under 132 total on the tree-lined A.W. Tillinghast layout, the tournament site for the first time after 41 seasons at Westchester. He hasnt made a bogey since dropping strokes on the first two holes Thursday, playing his last 23 holes in 11 under. I think the course is in such good shape, thats why the scoring is good, Stricker said. I think as we get further along, the scoring could get a little bit better just because guys will find a way to play it, understand it a little bit more and feel a little bit more comfortable with what they are doing out there. Mahan, 31st in the FedEx Cup standings, followed his opening 62 with a 73.Kenny Perry, effectively the FedEx Cup leader with top-ranked Tiger Woods sidelined by a knee injury, shot a 67 to join Angel Cabrera (67) and Dudley Hart (69) at 6 under. Phil Mickelson was eight strokes back at 2 under after a 70. U.S AMATEURS: Georgia teammates Adam Mitchell and Patrick Reed advanced to the U.S. Amateur semifinals at Pinehurst, N.C.Mitchell rallied to defeat Charlie Holland 2 and 1 in one quarterfinal, and Patrick Reed defeated Graham Hill 4 and 3 to reach a semifinal matchup today against perhaps the fields hottest player: fellow 18-year-old Danny Lee. EUROPEAN PGA: Darren Clarke shot a 6-under 64 to join Robert Rock and Alexander Noren in the lead after the second round of the KLM Open in Zandvoort, Netherlands . CHAMPIONS TOUR: Mark Wiebe birdied four of his first five holes, then added two more on the back nine to shoot 67 that gave him a share of the first-round lead at the Boeing Classic at Snoqualmie, Wash. We welcome results from local golf leagues and tournaments. Results must include the event location, full names of participants, and a contact name and phone number for additional information. Fax: 260-461-8648; e-mail: jgsports@jg.net 
