FRANKFURT, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Loans to euro zone firms and  households fell last month for the first time since records  began, adding to arguments for lower ECB rates and raising the  risk that consumer and corporate spending has further to fall.  European Central Bank figures on Thursday showed loans to  the private sector fell by a net 47 billion euros month-on-month  in December, or 0.4 percent -- a record for the data series  which began in 1998.  'It is clear evidence that the tightening in credit  conditions which has been long signalled is really starting to  come through and it will also be reflecting the collapse in  business confidence,' said Barclays  (nyse: BCS -  news  -  people ) Capital economist Julian  Callow.  'This really means the way is open for significant easing of  monetary policy by the ECB.'  The fall in household and business loans brought the annual  growth in private sector loans down to 5.8 percent from 7.1  percent the previous month.  Household borrowing was hit particularly hard, providing the  latest evidence that the worldwide economic downturn and  warnings of mass lay-offs at euro zone firms are making lenders  and consumers increasingly wary.  'Basically credit origination to the private sector in the  euro zone has stalled and that, in itself, is a pretty bad sign  for future economic growth,' said Gilles Moec at Bank of  America.  Euro zone economic sentiment hit record lows in January,  separate data showed, with inflation expectations falling in  tandem.  The European Commission said economic sentiment in the 16  countries using the euro fell to 68.9 points -- the lowest since  records began in 1985 -- from an upwardly revised 70.4 in  December.  TRICHET  The ECB data showed money supply growth also slowed more  than expected. Taken with the latest comments from ECB  President Jean-Claude Trichet, this further bolstered  expectations of another interest rate cut in March.  'We are at 2 percent and I didn't exclude we could go below  2. What I have said is we have a very important rendezvous in  March,' Trichet said, adding the ECB had also not ruled out  out-of-the-ordinary monetary policy action.  'At this stage we have taken non standard measures; we could  take more of these measures, we will see: I do not pre-announce  anything, I do not exclude anything.'  ECB Governing Council Member Athanasios Orphanides also  hinted at further rate cuts, telling an audience in Cyprus that  interest rates may have to be cut aggressively if inflation  threatens to fall significantly below the targeted level.  The former Federal Reserve official also called it 'a  fallacy' to suggest that monetary policy becomes impotent once  rates hit zero.  The ECB has already cut rates by 225 basis points to 2  percent in four moves since October, but economists expect more  as the economy stumbles and inflation rates plummet.  M3 money supply growth, which the ECB sees as an indicator  of looming inflation pressures, fell to 7.3 percent annually  from 7.7 percent, below expectations of a fall to 7.6 percent.  The ECB figures showed household borrowing has been hit  harder than business loans by the economic downturn. Annual  growth in household loans fell to a new record low of 1.8  percent. Corporate borrowing growth came in at 9.4 percent  annually.  'In light of what we have seen in January in the banking  sector, I can only guess that credit will slow down  further,' said Aurelio Maccario at Unicredit.  (Additional reporting by Jan Strupczewski in Brussels and Marc  Jones in Frankfurt; Editing by Ruth Pitchford)  Keywords: ECB/M3  (sakari.suoninen@reuters.com; +49 69 7565 1267; Reuters Messaging: sakari.suoninen.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
