JAPAN'S exports dropped for the third straight month in December, plunging 35 per cent from a year earlier, led by a particularly sharp fall in shipments of automobiles to Europe and the US and in chemicals and electronics parts to China.  Capping off the bearish results were figures showing that Japan's trade surplus in 2008 shrank 80 per cent to its smallest level since 1982.  Given Japan's status as an export-reliant economy, analysts say the implications of the prolonged weakness in overseas demand for the economy as a whole are grim, as falling corporate profits force major manufacturers like Sony and Toyota to cut production and jobs.  This in turn has hit consumer sentiment and private consumption, sending ripples through the economy as a whole and threatening to deepen the nation's recession.  'The across the board deterioration in exports has led to plunging economic activity, which means capital expenditure and employment weakness should continue well into 2009,' said Tomoko Fujii, head of economics and strategy at Bank of America in Tokyo.  'Job cuts may be moderated by companies' adopting work sharing or shortened work weeks, but the employment trend is definitely downward.  The extended slump in exports comes as the US-originated financial crisis tightens its grip on the global economy, further worsening the outlook for any short-term recovery in exports, as overseas customers demand fewer Japanese goods.  'The speed of declines in exports is still accelerating and it will remain so for the coming few months, at least,' said Norio Miyagawa, an economist at Shinko Research Institute.  The trend is taking a particularly sharp toll on the automobile and auto parts sector, he said, posing further challenges as deterioration in these key sectors 'can weaken the already-fragile Japanese economy further'.  For 2008, Japan's surplus declined for the first time in two years. Exports for the year fell 3.4 per cent, led by a 15.8 per cent decrease to the US and a 7.8 per cent drop to Europe. Imports were up 7.9 per cent on the year.  Today's data also showed that imports declined for the second straight month in December, falling 21.5 per cent, due largely to the drop in the price of oil and commodities.  
