Article from:   The Australian  WORLD equity markets plunged yesterday, spoiling a promising start to 2009.  Wall Street dropped almost 3 per cent on grim employment figures and more gloomy corporate news.  Australia's benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index dropped 85.4 points, or 2.26 per cent, to 3694.3, while the broader All Ordinaries lost 84.6 points, or 2.27 per cent, to 3643.6.  The local currency also fell, closing US1.65c lower at US70.60c, after a sharp drop in the price of most commodities, particularly oil.  In Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 index shed 3.93 per cent, ending a seven-day winning streak, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng was down 3.81 per cent.  London's FTSE 100 index broke a six-day winning streak, ending the session 2.83 per cent lower on Wednesday, while a drop on Dow futures yesterday pointed to another weak session on markets overnight.  NabCapital senior economist Spiros Papadopoulos attributed the worldwide slides to Wall Street's decline.  'The global financial markets are so interlinked at the moment and global confidence is very closely aligned,' he said.  'With the global economy looking to the US for direction at the moment, if the US makes a big move in either direction, global sentiment is affected.'  The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 2.72 per cent yesterday on news private employment had fallen by much more than expected, coupled with news that Intel had cut its earnings outlook and lingering concern about Alcoa's big job cuts.  The US ADP employment report showed a sharp drop of 693,000 in December, the 11th consecutive fall and the largest in the survey's eight-year history.  The market was only expecting a drop of 495,000. The poor data has reinforced investor expectations that the US may remain in recession for some time.  Mr Papadopoulos said a fall in commodity prices had also weighed heavily on the Australian market.  'All base metals were significantly down overnight and that contributed to the downward move we have seen today,' he said.  The price of oil, which has risen significantly over the past week, also fell after a report from the US Energy Department showed a large rise in oil inventories.  IG Markets research analyst Ben Potter said Australia would 'feel the full brunt' of the metals and oil sell-off because its stock market was resources-based.  'Demand concerns have not disappeared over Christmas and are likely to weigh on prices for well into 2009,' he said.  The recent gains achieved by Australia's commodity-based currency were also stripped back yesterday after dismal economic data increased the odds for another interest rate cut next month. The Australian Bureau of Statistics released figures that showed the number of homes approved for construction fell by 12.8 per cent in November, compared with a revised fall of 3.1 per cent in October.  Economists expected a fall of 1.5 per cent.  Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Joseph Capurso said this suggested further rate cuts were likely.  'So, for overseas investors trying to get a return on their buck, this economic data suggests the economy, and those returns, are going to suffer,' he said.  
