The Government is putting the hard word on Kiwibank to lower its fees for breaking fixed mortgages as home-loan rates tumble.  Finance Minister Bill English signalled his unhappiness with the state-owned bank yesterday after reports that its break fees were among the highest of any bank.  Mortgage rates were cut yet again yesterday in response to the Reserve Bank's decision to lower the official cash rate by 1.5 percentage points to a record 3.5 percent. Nearly five percentage points have been sliced off the official rate in six months.  The rapid fall in loan rates has prompted increasing homeowners - sometimes hundreds a week - to ask about breaking their mortgages.  Kiwibank and Westpac would both charge more than $21,000 for a customer to break a $200,000 five-year fixed-rate loan taken in 2007 and to be repaid over 25 years.  ASB and National Bank calculated figures of just under $11,000 and Bank of New Zealand just over $8000.  Kiwibank has about 5 percent of the $161 billion mortgage market.  Mr English, a shareholding minister in Kiwibank, said pressure on banks would come mainly from customers as the break fees influenced their choice of banks. But of Kiwibank's high fees, he said: 'We would expect to be discussing that with them at some stage.' Asked early this month if Kiwibank had come under political pressure, chief executive Sam Knowles told The Dominion Post: 'I have never had a phone call from anyone telling me what to do, and I don't expect that to change.' Kiwibank spokesman Bruce Thompson said yesterday that the bank passed on only the actual cost of breaking the loan.  Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard sternly repeated yesterday his warning for banks 'to play their part' in saving the economy by passing on his rate cuts to homeowners and businesses. 'They mainly have, but not entirely,' he said. Kiwibank was first out of the blocks, lowering all its rates by up to a percentage point.  All the other major banks quickly followed suit, cutting floating rates to between 6.45 and 6.99 percent as well as all fixed rates. Dr Bollard's rate cut was at the high end of economists' expectations, but roundly endorsed by them. BNZ's Stephen Toplis said the Reserve Bank was 'terrified by what it sees happening offshore and the likely implications of that on the New Zealand economy, so it has taken a no-holds-barred approach'. Economists say a rash of expected bad economic news, led by a sharp rise in the unemployment rate, could drive the official cash rate as low as 2 percent by June. The Reserve Bank will next review its rate on March 12.  Dr Bollard said the world economy had fallen into recession since he made a similar-sized cut early in December.  Only last month he declared New Zealand's recession over; now he expects it to continue through the first half of this year.
