The Bank of England cut interest rates to the lowest level in its 315-year history yesterday as it attempts to prevent the UK recession deepening into a depression.  The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee voted for a reduction of 0.5 percentage points to 1.5pc as it weighed up the state of the economy against fears that a bigger cut could exacerbate the pound's weakness against the euro. It marked the first time since the Bank was founded in 1694 that interest rates were below 2pc.  In a statement accompanying the decision, the MPC said that the pace of contraction in business activity increased during the fourth quarter and was 'likely to continue to fall sharply during the first part of this year.' It was the fourth reduction to the bank rate in as many months, and followed the latest round of economic data.  Earlier this week Nationwide said that house prices fell 15.9pc in 2008, and gloomy surveys from the manufacturing and services industries have heightened the belief that the UK economy will shrink sharply in 2009, and will not begin to recover in the second half of the year as predicted by the Chancellor in November.  The 0.5 point cut was widely predicted by economists but it disappointed some members of the business community who were hoping for a larger reduction. Steve Radley, chief economist at the manufacturers organisation EEF, accused the MPC of being 'too timid.'  He said: 'This year was already going to be a serious challenge for manufacturers but all the indications are that the downturn is gathering pace at home and abroad. Whilst the Bank has indicated it wanted to take a measured approach to cutting rates, this is too timid to deal with the current situation. Given the expectation that rates will be cut again the question has to be asked 'why wait'?'  Further cuts are expected as the MPC, led by the Bank's Governor Mervyn King, tries to maximise the impact interest rates could have in terms of curbing the downturn.  'Given the appalling state of the economy, there was a clear justification for further easing and while a 75 basis points or even a 100 basis points reduction could have been defended, the MPC will probably want to save some ammunition to provide some good news in the months to come,' said Philip Shaw, economist at Investec.  When the MPC has exhausted interest rate cuts, the Bank could resort to the more unconventional policy of quantitative easing, often referred to as printing money, which would effectively put the Treasury in control of monetary policy.  'As the Bank Rate gets ever closer to zero, the key issue remains the 'next stage' of monetary policy in the form of quantitative easing,' said Matthew Sharratt, economist at Bank of America.  The MPC said yesterday that 'further measures' were required to increase lending to consumers and businesses. Quantitative easing and an extension of the Treasury's bank recapitalisation programme would be among the options.  Despite the bank rate reduction, the pound strengthened against the euro after the decision was announced at 1.118, before ending the day slightly down at 1.108. Sterling has shown a modest recovery against the euro this week, after falling 23pc in 2008. The Bank said yesterday that a weak pound could provide a welcome boost to the economy by increasing exports.  
