Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard had two pieces of good news yesterday. First, inflation is heading back within the target band of 1-3% like the pokey little puppy which has wandered too far from home and can now smell strawberry shortcake being served for dinner.  The second good news not contained in his statement but uttered during the post-announcement press conference, is the recession might be over by the second half of the year.  OK, thats not hugely good news. It isnt going to have them turning cartwheels of joy in Johnsonville or Geraldine.  And not all economists share Dr Bollards optimism  if such a comment can be characterised as optimism.  But in the current economic environment we should take what we can get.  Dr Bollards comments were couched cautiously: we might see a recovery in the second half of the year, he said, if the global situation stabilises.  Which is a very big if  as Dr Bollards formal statement makes clear.  Despite the stimulus packages enacted around the world by governments and central banks, there is still huge uncertainty about the timing and strength of any economic recovery.  The stimulus from both the lower interest rates, a looser fiscal policy from the New Zealand government, and a lower exchange rate, should have a positive impact on growthprovided firms and households do not unnecessarily contract their spending.  Dr Bollard also urged New Zealand banks to pass on the lower interest rate to customers.  JP Morgan New Zealand economist Helen Kevans described the 1.5% rate cut  which was larger than most economists were expecting  as aggressive[but] certainly warranted.  The Kiwi economy is well entrenched in a recession that, on our forecasts, will likely extend for six straight quarters.  That tallies with the Reserve Banks own outlook but not all economists think that is going to happen.  ASB Bank chief economist Nick Tuffley predicts the recession will last all year.  Others are even gloomier; The Bank of New Zealand economics team is picking the economy to continue shrinking by 0.9% in 2010.  The Reserve Bank seems  for good reason - fixated on international developments, says BNZs head of market economics Stephen Toplis.  In our opinion, these will continue to surprise on the downside.  Like some other bank economists, Mr Toplis believes the official cash rate will now go as low as 2% by the middle of the year, and stay there for some time.  What may stop it going that low is if further rate cuts stop being effective  and there is a risk of that happening, says ASBs Nick Tuffley.  The Reserve Bank could soon find a gap opening between the level of interest rate banks need to continue to access funds, and where the Reserve Bank wants interest rates to go to stimulate the economy.  They may have to use other instruments such as weve seen overseas  directly buying up Treasury bonds to try to drive wholesale rates down, or drop charges which apply to the wholesale guarantee scheme.  The Bank of New Zealands Stephen Toplis is another who warns interest rate cuts are going to have diminishing returns.  In the current climate one cant help but think that any cash relief is more likely to be saved by householders and businesses alike. This means that the impact of falling interest rates will be substantially dampened. As a result, just pushing rates forever lower may be an inappropriate course of action.  In fact, it may prove counter productive as folk dependant on income from investment for their livelihood have their earnings slashed.  
