BUILDING approvals hit a seven-year low in November, raising concerns that Australia will fall into recession this year.   Economists had hoped a housing shortage would keep the building industry afloat, but official figures published yesterday showed the number of new buildings approved in November fell 12.8 per cent to 9581, the smallest number since 2001.   Private sector housing approvals in NSW are at their lowest level since statistics began in 1983.   The plunge came despite extraordinary measures to stimulate investment. The Reserve Bank had slashed interest rates by 2 percentage points in the preceding months, and the Rudd Government had tripled the first homebuyers' grant. Approvals for commercial and residential properties - indicators of future activity in the construction business - plummeted 34.7 per cent in the year to November, and the industry is bracing for a sharp contraction.   The decline is likely to dampen economic growth and reduce the number of construction jobs, which account for more than 9 per cent of the country's employment. The assistant director of industry policy at the Housing Industry Association, Ben Phillips, said the outlook for building jobs, especially in residential construction, looked grim. 'We know there's probably been some job shedding at this stage and it's only likely to get worse going into the first half of this year,' he said. A private sector construction index has also reflected the pressure on builders. The index for December, published yesterday, had fallen to its lowest point since September 2005.   An economist at ANZ Bank, Alex Joiner, said the news heightened the risk of an economic contraction this year.   In November the Treasury forecast the economy would avoid recession - two consecutive quarters of negative growth - by growing at 2 per cent in 2008-09 and 2.25 per cent in 2009-10.   But many economists say this is too optimistic, and expect the economy to keep slowing from its most recent rate of 0.1 per cent in the three months to the end of September.   Such a slowdown is expected to push up unemployment from its current level of 4.4 per cent.   The chief economist at BT Financial Group, Chris Caton, said the housing plunge was 'startlingly large' and that it would add to the case for an interest rate cut next month.   Markets predict the Reserve Bank will cut official interest rates, currently 4.25 per cent, by 1.25 percentage points by March, including a 0.75 percentage point cut next month.   Other figures published yesterday showed the trade surplus halved in November as exporters bore the brunt of the global slowdown. After posting a record surplus of $2.96 billion in October, the trade ledger fell to $1.45 billion, driven by a 4 per cent decline in exports. ANZ's Dr Joiner said the surplus was likely to continue shrinking throughout the first half of the year as global demand fell, and the 'nail in the coffin' would be the renegotiation of contracts for the country's biggest exports, including coal and iron ore, from April. 
