THE main residential property market action will be in the first home buyer sector this year.  More evidence is emerging that confirms what many pundits said was happening last year -- that first home buyers are looking to enter a market they were largely shut out of during the boom.   Because of cost factors, it is also likely that many will choose to buy apartments rather than freestanding houses.   The latest Home Finance Index survey from the Mortgage and Finance Association of Australia and BankWest, which is conducted every six months, found that one in two first home buyers believed now was a good time to enter the property market. The increased First Home Owners Grant and falling interest rates are considered to be the main reasons for their renewed interest.   The MFAA/BankWest survey found that 51 per cent of first-time buyers believed it was a good time to buy, and that 40 per cent believed the federal Government was doing enough to support home ownership.   This was a 14 per cent increase on the previous survey in April 2008. Of the 51 per cent who thought it was a good time to buy, 27 per cent gave as their main reason lower home prices, 16 per cent cited the drop in interest rates and 8 per cent the First Home Owners Grant.   Over 58 per cent of NSW consumers believed that prices would fall in the first quarter of 2009.   The lower cost is encouraging people to look at buying instead of renting. In Sydney, for example, there was a 17 per cent annual rise in house rents to December, according to the Australian Institute of Property Management, and a typical Sydney rent is now $450 a week for a house and $400 a week for a unit, making the cost of buying comparable to paying rent.   The proviso, of course, is that you have a deposit and are able to borrow.   In addition, it will be easier for overseas buyers to purchase homes here because of the federal Government's changes to the administration of real estate purchases by foreign investors.   The changes, to start in February, will streamline the process and reduce the costs for foreign residents and businesses buying Australian real estate.   They include short-term accommodation and differentiate between residential and commercial transactions, the purchase of blocks of land by non-residents and the purchase of established houses by foreign companies for Australian-based staff and temporary residents. The changes will also remove the upper limit of $300,000, which has previously been in place for student visa holders.   So there seem to be various areas of support for the lower-priced sector, but what of the upper end of the market in 2009?   Yes, there will be big top-end sales where an unpressured vendor gets their asking price -- or more -- because a buyer wants the particular property so much.   But that will be rare, and it is expected that the market generally will be thin, as normally big earners rein in their spending and as job losses in sectors like financial services take their toll.   Price reductions will be more the order of the day -- evident already in Sydney, in Queensland and in Perth's upmarket suburbs.   While it will differ across the capital cities, generally vendors in the upper end will have to meet the market if they want to sell, and agents expect last year's tough environment to continue in the first part of 2009.
