Australian consumer prices fell by the most in a decade last quarter, as a steep drop in petrol helped pull annual inflation down sharply, signalling scope for another aggressive cut in interest rates next week. Measures of underlying inflation favoured by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) rose by a shade less than expected in the fourth quarter. The central bank - which will meet for the first time this year next Tuesday, February 3 - aims to keep inflation in a two to three per cent band over the long run. In the fourth quarter, the consumer price index fell 0.3 per cent, against a market forecast of 0.4 per cent, leading to an annual rise in the CPI of 3.7 per cent. Economists said the figures showed inflation was no longer as much of an issue. HSBC chief economist John Edwards said there were no real surprises in the headline numbers. 'It removes any conceivable impediment to the RBA cutting rates next week by 75 basis points,' Mr Edwards said. 'The most important point about the result is the trimmed mean CPI is up 0.6 per cent, which is half of the increase for the previous quarter. 'It means in an annualised sense, underlying inflation is back within the RBA's band. Inflation is no longer a problem.' RBC senior economist Su-Lin Ong said a decline in fuel prices and transport costs likely caused the drop. 'Importantly, the odds are that the annual rate of headline inflation is going to drop quite markedly in the coming quarters and be back in target range later this year,' Ms Ong said. 'It's a report that confirms moderation in price pressures ... and there is a pretty good chance of a 100 basis point rate cut next week.' JP Morgan economist Helen Evans said the RBA would be studying developments in the global economy, rather than inflation. 'I don't think the RBA's primary focus at the moment is inflation. It will be looking at what's going on in the global economy, particularly the deteriorating growth in our major export partners in Asia,' Ms Evans said. 'That will worry the RBA, and we are forecasting another 100 basis points cut next month.'
