Consumer prices fell for the first time in two years in the December quarter, as the cost of petrol, cars, health products and financial services fell.  The consumer price index fell 0.3 per cent in the December quarter, the biggest drop since September 1997, data released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on Wednesday showed.  This cut the annual inflation rate to 3.7 per cent from 5.0 per cent in the 12 months to September, dragging it back toward the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) two to three per cent target.  Economists had forecast a fall of 0.4 per cent in the December quarter for an annual pace of 3.6 per cent.  Price increases in the RBA's preferred measures of underlying inflation, which smooths out volatile items such as fuel and food, also moderated.  These results will allow the RBA to continue its aggressive rate cutting exercise to stave off the growing risk of recession.  Financial markets are pricing in at least a 75 basis point cut in the official cash rate to 3.5 per cent, coming on top of 300 basis points of reductions last year.  The average of the RBA's weighted median and trimmed mean underlying measures rose 0.75 per cent in the December quarter compared to 1.25 per cent growth in the previous quarter.  This cut the average underlying annual rate to 4.35 per cent from 4.7 per cent in the 12 months to September.  Economists had expected the average of the two measures to rise by 0.8 per cent in the December quarter for an annual rate of 4.4 per cent.  Citigroup managing director of economics Stephen Halmarick said the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was receding more rapidly than the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) had forecasted last November. 'Today's CPI report clearly shows inflation has peaked and is falling quickly and by more than the RBA expected in its November Statement on Monetary Policy,' Mr Halmarick said. 'With the economy expected to contract for several quarters and for growth to remain below potential through 2010, we forecast inflation (range) to fall back to around the mid point of the two to three per cent target during the second half of 2010.' Mr Halmarick said falling petrol prices was the main contributor to a slowing in inflation. 'The fall in the CPI in Q4 2008 was driven by an 18 per cent drop in fuel prices, but in total 20 items reported price falls,' he said. 'Items still showing price pressures included rents, food, beer and tobacco,' he said. 'However, the breadth of larger price rises is narrowing, as indicated by the sharp deceleration in the underlying inflation rate, which rose 0.75 per cent (average of trimmed mean and weighted median), in line with market expectations 0.8 per cent.  The RBA would be pleased with December's inflation reading and give the central bank more scope to cut the cash rate, starting next week, Mr Halmarick said. 'Overall, today's data will encourage the RBA to continue to cut further given the deteriorating global economic backdrop and we expect a 100 basis point rate cut at the February 3 Board meeting,' he said.
