The following post highlights Darden Restaurants, Inc. (NYSE: DRI - News), JC Penney (NYSE: JCP - News), Harley Davidson (NYSE: HOG - News), Bank of America (NYSE: BAC - News) and Fifth Third Bank (NasdaqGS: FITB - News).  New claims for unemployment insurance rose 3,000 to 588,000. Since this is often a volatile series, it is helpful to look at the 4-week moving average, which rose 24,250 to 542,500.  Given the huge layoff announcements we have seen recently, it is no surprise that initial claims are rising. However, most of the layoff announcements of last week and this are probably not reflected in these figures. We should expect that new claims will continue to rise.  The 4-week average is slightly below the high point for this cycle of 558,750, however it is likely that new highs will be established over the next few weeks. Initial claims have already surpassed the highs of the last two recessions, which were hit after the recession was officially over. I would not be at all surprised to see them challenge their all-time high set in the depths of the early 1980's downturn.  The level of unemployment depends on both the number of people losing their jobs, and on the number of people getting hired. With continuing claims rising much faster than initial claims, it indicates that bad things are happening on both ends. Continuing claims rose 159,000 to 4.776 million in a single week, and the 4-week moving average hit 4.63 million, a rise of 66,500. This is an all-time record.  This sets the stage for a very ugly employment report next week. The consensus estimates are for a loss of 500,000 jobs in January, but I fear it could be much worse, perhaps as high as 600,000.  The silver lining of this, such as it is, is that the size of the insured work force is much larger now than it was back in the early 1980's downturn, or even in the last two recessions. When adjusted for the size of the workforce, we are currently at levels comparable to the worst of the 1991 recession. Note however, the behavior of continuing claims in the past two recessions in the charts below (from http://www.calculatedriskblog.com/).  In the more distant past, claims spiked and then quickly reversed course, while in more recent recessions they stayed elevated well past the end of the official recessions. I fear that we might have the worst of both worlds this time around -- claims as a percentage of the work force rising toward the levels seen the deep recessions of the mid-1970's and early 1980's, and persisting the way they did in the more recent downturns.  Rising unemployment and the fear among those who still have jobs that they may not in the near future will take its toll on discretionary spending. Some of the areas that would be hardest hit by this would be the mid-priced restaurant chains like Darden (NYSE: DRI - News), retailers like JC Penney (NYSE: JCP - News) and makers of high-priced toys like Harley Davidson (NYSE: HOG - News).  It is also far more difficult to pay your mortgage when you are out of work, which means that foreclosures may well even accelerate this year from the disastrous 2008. This means still more pressure on big banks like Bank of America (NYSE: BAC - News) and regional banks like Fifth Third (NasdaqGS: FITB - News).  Read the full analyst report on JCP.  Read the full analyst report on FITB.  
