New Zealands annual trade deficit widened more than economists forecast in December as a deepening global recession damped exports.  The gap increased to NZ$5.62 billion ($3 billion) in the 12 months ended Dec. 31 from NZ$5.23 billion in the year through November, Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of eight analysts was for a NZ$5.3 billion shortfall.  The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 3.5 percent today, and said it has room for further reductions to combat fallout from a slump in the nations major overseas markets. New Zealand has been in recession since the start of 2008 as declining incomes for farmers and exporters stall spending and prompt companies to fire workers.  The dismal outlook for the global economy means there are tough times ahead for New Zealand exporters, said Helen Kevans, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. in Sydney. The threat of even weaker export demand means that net exports will remain a significant drag on growth in 2009.  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the worlds largest dairy exporter, yesterday cut its milk price forecast for the third time in four months and delayed paying a dividend, citing declining demand.  Sales of milk powder, butter and cheese, which make up almost one-fifth of overseas shipments, fell 12 percent from a year earlier, todays report showed. Shipments of fruit, aluminum and crude oil also dropped.  Exports, Imports  Exports overall rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier, the smallest increase since March, to NZ$3.85 billion. The one-off sale of a large aircraft bolstered exports by NZ$148 million. Overseas shipments make up about 30 percent of the economy.  Imports fell for a second straight month to seven-month low of NZ$4.2 billion as domestic demand eased.  Economists monitor the rolling, 12-month trade balance because of volatility in the month-on-month figures, which arent seasonally adjusted. Decembers trade deficit was NZ$347 million compared with a NZ$39 million surplus a year earlier.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut its interest rate by 1.5 percentage points, more than most economists expected.  News coming from our trading partners is very negative, Governor Alan Bollard said in a statement. Given this backdrop it is appropriate to take the cash rate to a more stimulatory position and to deliver this reduction quickly.  World prices of butter, meat and other commodities dropped 7.4 percent in December from a year earlier, according to an index compiled by ANZ National Bank Ltd. In New Zealand dollars, the index fell 6.1 percent.  Global Outlook  The International Monetary Fund yesterday said world growth will be 0.5 percent this year, the weakest postwar pace. Global expansion this year will come to a virtual standstill, said Olivier Blanchard, the IMFs chief economist.  New Zealands dollar has slumped 33 percent against the U.S. currency the past six months, cushioning the effect of weaker commodity prices and slack demand. The currency bought 52.46 U.S. cents at 11:52 a.m. in Wellington from 52.49 cents immediately before the trade figures were released.  Fuel and crude oil imports dropped 16 percent in December, todays report showed. The figures arent adjusted for inflation and reflect falling prices for imports as well as actual shipments.  The average price of crude oil purchases in New Zealand dollars was the lowest since September 2007 while the tonnage landed was the most in at least two years  Vehicle imports also fell, while purchases of electrical and mechanical machinery increased.  
