PROPERTY owners are expecting the value of their homes to decline in the next quarter, according to a survey conducted jointly by the Mortgage and Finance Association of Australia and BankWest.  About 60 per cent of the 700-plus respondents said they expected a decline in property values. 'This is the most pessimistic response we have had in relation to property price expectations since we began the Home Finance Index in June 2006,' said the MFAA chief executive Phil Naylor.   Mr Naylor said he was not surprised by the level of pessimism because of the current economic climate.   He said Western Australia was the most pessimistic, with almost 70 per cent of respondents saying prices would continue to fall. And 53.5 per cent of those surveyed believed that their house had lost value in the past six months.   By comparison, 24 per cent of Australian home owners believed the value of their home fell in the same period.   Victoria was the second most pessimistic state with 63 per cent, followed by NSW with 58.9 per cent and Queensland with 54.5 per cent.   South Australians were the most optimistic -- just 7 per cent of the respondents believed their home had lost value in the past six months. 'It is a double-edged sword. Low price expectation is bad for those who already own property, but good news for first-home buyers,' Mr Naylor said. BankWest's head of mortgages and savings, Paul Vivian, said the perceived drop in house prices would lead to a revival in first-time buyers entering the market. 'First-time buyers are more convinced than other groups that there will continue to be a drop in property prices, with 27.8 per cent saying that the lower prices make now a good time to buy.' Mr Naylor said its members including the Australian Finance Group and Mortgage Choice had seen a sharp rise in the volume of inquiries from first-time buyers. Australian Finance Group last month said it arranged $474 million in home loans for first-time buyers, compared to $215 million in the previous three months.   But not all players in the industry are pessimistic. After five years of bureaucratic rigmarole, the privately-owned Lewis Land Group has finally received the green light to proceed with its billion-dollar development, Sovereign Hills, near Port Macquarie on the mid-north coast of NSW.   Robert Yandell, director of the Lewis Land Group said the economic climate did not concern him. 'We are producing affordable housing in an area where there is still relatively strong employment growth,' Mr Yandell said. The company plans to produce 3000 dwellings, mostly houses, over the next decade.   The average price of blocks will be $170,000 and the average house and land package will be $350,000 to $400,000.   The catchment area is expected to extend as far south as western Sydney and the NSW central coast. 'Our main markets will be sea-changers looking to move out of cities and young people who had previously moved out of Port Macquarie but are now thinking of returning to raise a young family there.'
