The ECB's work is clearly not finished, economists said, despite having cut rates by 175 basis points already since October, as the economy slams into reverse and shows no sign of gaining traction soon.: Fifty-five of 70 economists in a poll taken Dec. 30-Jan. 6, said the ECB would cut rates from their current 2.50 percent when it meets on Thursday Jan. 15, while fifteen said no move was the most likely outcome.  The bulk of forecasts were taken before data showed euro zone inflation in December fell below the ECB's close to 2.0 percent ceiling for the first time since August 2007.  The poll showed only a median 51 percent probability of a 50 basis point cut, however, showing just how uncertain economists are about the size of the move-a common occurrence in recent Reuters polls. "The ECB still seems reluctant to cut rates further, but there are indications from policymakers they may go below the current 2.5 percent. The data are simply so bad it's difficult to not start doing it in January," said Holger Schmieding at Bank of America.  Forty-six economists forecast a 50 basis point move, and nine said the ECB would cut by just 25 basis points. The bank cut rates by 75 basis points in December, the largest such move in the bank's 10-year history. Economists were not convinced either that the ECB will follow the path set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and lower rates close to zero. Only one economist said they would.  The survey showed just a 20 percent chance of that happening, compared with a 50-50 chance the Bank of England doing the same thing given in a separate poll.  ECB rates are still expected to bottom at 1.50 percent in the second quarter, in line with a poll taken three weeks ago.  The economic outlook, rather than a firm ECB bias to cut, has pushed most economists to forecast a move in January. Earlier data showed the euro zone's dominant services sector fell to its lowest level in at least 10 years. Most say the ECB's staff forecasts made in December, which pointed to contraction in the euro zone economy this year of about 0.5 percent, are much too optimistic. "They were out of date when the forecasts were published, now they are really, really out of date," said Bank of America's Schmieding. A sharp fall in growth and inflation will make it much easier for the ECB to justify a rate cut, and perhaps a big one.  Official inflation in the euro zone in December fell much more than expected to 1.6 percent on Thursday as oil prices tumbled, falling below the ECB's close but below 2.0 percent inflation ceiling for the first time since August 2007.  ECB Governing Council member Vitor Constancio said on Monday that European monetary policy would respond with interest rate cuts to maintain inflation around 2 percent if necessary.  Indeed fears of deflation, a widespread sustained fall in prices, will keep the ECB alert even if it may be reluctant to cut rates too low. "There is a risk of deflation and with every month that the ECB waits the risk is increasing, but it's still a relatively small risk," said Juergen Michels at Citi, who forecast a 50 basis point cut next week.
