Canada's dollar appreciated against its U.S. counterpart for the first time in six days as U.S. government measures to assist banks prompted investors to venture into higher yielding assets.  The Canadian dollar jumped as much as 1.7%, the most in almost two weeks, as commodity-linked currencies rallied on renewed appetite for risk. Raw materials such as crude oil, copper and gold account for about half of the country's exports.  'We're seeing a correction taking place across the board with equity markets showing a little bit of stability,' said Ian Stannard, a currency strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA. 'The commodity currencies have been able to regain some ground against the U.S. dollar. The Canadian dollar is taking advantage of that situation.'  The Canadian currency strengthened 0.5% to C$1.2469 per U.S. dollar at 11:30 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.2527 Thursday. It earlier rose 1.7%, the most since the intraday move of 2% on Jan. 5. One Canadian dollar buys 80.20 U.S. cents.  The MSCI World Index, a benchmark index for 23 developed countries, rose 1.7% to 867.72, its first gain in eight sessions. The MSCI World is one of the Canadian dollar's three most closely correlated indicators, along with crude oil and base metals, according to research by RBC Capital Markets.  The U.S. government agreed to provide US$138-billion of funds and guarantees to Bank of America Corp. The Senate voted Thursday to allow the release of the remaining US $350-billion from the Treasury's financial-rescue fund, which President-elect Barack Obama could use to help banks weather a financial crisis.  Canada's currency may appreciate to C$1.2240 'in the next few days,' Mr. Stannard said. 'Equity markets seem to be responding quite favorably to the latest round of packages in the U.S., and also in the U.K. it looks highly likely we'll get some further measures announced as well.'  The Canadian dollar's gains are 'predominantly on the more risk-loving sentiments in markets,' Sacha Tihanyi, a Toronto-based currency strategist at Scotia Capital Inc., wrote in a note. 'Uncertainty over the Bank of Canada next week may keep Canadian dollar strength contained.'  The Bank of Canada will cut the target rate for overnight loans between commercial banks by 50 basis points to 1% when it meets on Jan. 20, according to the median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The central bank reduced the benchmark by 0.75 percentage point to 1.5% at its last meeting on Dec. 9.  Scotia Capital, a unit of Canada's third-largest bank, predicts the loonie will strengthen to C$1.22 by the end of the first quarter. That compares to the median forecast of 35 economists in a Bloomberg survey, which calls for the currency to trade at C$1.25 in that period.  The yield on the two-year government bond rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.95%, near the lowest since at least 1989, when Bloomberg records begin. The price of the 2.75% security due in December 2010 gained 1 cent to C$103.32.  
