Fighting unemployment tide: Britain's Prime Minister Gordon Brown (L) and Business Secretary Peter Mandelson listen to questions at an Employment Summit in central London. Brown has pledged to spend 500 million to stem rising unemployment. Picture: Reuters  SYDNEY  AUSTRALIA'S jobs market showed signs of cracking yesterday under the weight of the crumbling global economy and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown was set to pledge more help for the long-term unemployed.  US President-elect Barack Obama vowed to restructure a financial rescue plan to save more families from losing their homes, as politicians around the world grapple with how to shield voters from the worst effects of a long and deep recession.  Grim data from the United States on Friday showed more than half a million Americans lost their jobs in December, making 2008 the worst year for employment since World War Two.  Yesterday a survey from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp showed the number of job advertisements in Australia slumped to recessionary levels in December.  Australia had been one of the few developed countries to have seen its labour market remain relatively buoyant as the worldwide slowdown took hold in 2008.  The survey showed the total number of job advertisements in newspapers and on the Internet slid 9.7 per cent in December from the month before, the eighth straight month of losses. Ads were down 29.9 per cent from December last year and had fallen 22 per cent since September, the sharpest three-month drop on record.  'This result is staggeringly low and suggests that the labour market could be in worse shape than economists expect,' said Joshua Williamson, a senior strategist at TD Securities.  Much of the industrialised world is already officially in recession and all the main multilateral agencies have forecast that developed world economies will shrink this year.  The relentless stream of bad news knocked Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan 2.7 per cent lower yesterday, taking losses over the past four session's to as much as 9.4 per cent. Financial bookmakers predicted European markets would follow suit.  'The negativity still sits in the market, nothing's really changed in 2009,' said Dominic Vaughan, senior dealer at CMC Markets.  'In the next three to six months we've still got difficult times ahead for commodity markets and global markets as well.'  In the United States, aides to Obama, who takes office on Jan 20, were in talks with Congressional leaders on both the financial bailout plan and a proposed US$775-billion stimulus package that the president-elect says is needed to pull the economy out of a deep slump.  'When you look at how we have handled the home foreclosure situation and whether we've done enough in terms of helping families ... we haven't done enough there,' Obama said in an interview with ABC's 'This Week'.  In Britain, where retailer Marks &amp;amp; Spencer and car maker Nissan Motor between them announced last week they were cutting 2,430 jobs, Brown was holding a special jobs summit with industry leaders yesterday.  'We must do everything we can to help those losing their jobs to find work again quickly or to get a new skill,' Brown was due to say, according to remarks released by his office.  'In other words, we cannot always prevent people losing the last job but we can help people get the next job.'  
