Mortgage rates could fall as soon as next week with pressure mounting on banks to lower their floating and short-term fixed rates.  Kiwibank spokesman Bruce Thompson said yesterday the floating rate was under review. 'It is a rate where there could be room for movement,' he said. Most of the big banks are charging a floating interest rate of 8.2 percent. State-owned Kiwibank has the market-leading floating rate of 7.45 percent.  Mr Thompson said between 70 percent and 80 percent of customers with a fixed mortgage coming up for renewal were going on to the floating rate in anticipation of fixed rates falling further.  Until three months ago, only 15 percent would have opted for a floating rate. As a result, the floating rate was becoming a key battleground for the banks. 'Clearly it is an area where there is considerable interest by home-owners who are going into the watch-and-wait mode. There is a perception that rates will continue to fall,' Mr Thompson said. Banks came in for a stinging rebuke from Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard last month for failing to fully match his huge cuts in the official interest rate.  He had just cut official interest rates by a record 1.5 percentage points to 4 percent, adding up to a massive fall of 3.25 percentage points since July.  But the major banks have lowered their short-term interest rates by about 2.8 percentage points in that time.  Banks should not expect to keep up their profits in tough times, Dr Bollard said.  During the past four weeks, the 90-day bank bill rate, on which floating rates are based, has steadily fallen from 5.33 percent to 4.8 percent.  Mr Thompson said the official cash rate was a significant factor in setting rates, but this was balanced against the higher cost of funding in the wholesale market during the current economic turmoil.  Other banks said yesterday rates were constantly under review.  ANZ National Bank spokeswoman Helen Morgan-Banda said premiums charged by wholesale markets were dropping slightly.  But accessing international markets using the new government wholesale guarantee added a 1.4 percentage fee on top of borrowing cost, she said.  The decline in the 90-day rate could also be a sign the market was pricing in a further rate cut by the Reserve Bank at the next review on January 29.
