By Wayne Cole   SYDNEY, Jan 28 (Reuters) - Australians can count on another healthy helping of interest rate cuts and fiscal stimulus in coming weeks after inflation fell the most in a decade and policymakers voiced an urgent need to guard against global recession.   A 0.3 percent drop in the consumer price index reported on Wednesday all but sealed the case for a bold easing when the Reserve Bank of Australia holds its monthly policy meeting on Feb. 3. Investors foresee a cut of at least 75 basis points in the 4.25 percent cash rate, and a full percentage point was possible. 'It tells us that the inflation pulse in the economy is definitely coming off,' said Warren Hogan, head of Australian economics at ANZ. 'If the RBA wanted to do another aggressive cut, then this certainly doesn't stand in the way.' Speculation is also intense the Labor government will soon deliver a second package of fiscal stimulus, following on A$10.4 billion ($6.9 billion) of pump-priming in December.   Speaking to reporters after the inflation data, Treasurer Wayne Swan repeatedly highlighted the gruesome downturn abroad and the need to do everything possible to support jobs. 'I'm not going to speculate about timeframes, but one of the things that this government does is it gets ahead of the game,' said Swan, when asked how imminent a spending package might be.   Analysts suspect an announcement will come in the next week or two, well ahead of the annual budget in May.   BACK IN RANGE   Australia's central bank has already done its part by slashing interest rates by 3 percentage points since September, cutting average mortgage payments by around A$500 a month.   This drastic easing came even though inflation was running well above its long-term target of 2 to 3 percent, so the lapse in price pressures last quarter would have been a big relief.   The 0.3 percent drop in the consumer price index was the biggest since late 1997 and driven mainly by a huge 18 percent slump in the cost of petrol.   The CPI was up 3.7 percent on the same quarter a year earlier, a marked slowdown from a 5.0 percent pace in the third quarter and well below the RBA's own forecast of 4.25 percent.   For a graphic of consumer prices see:   https://customers.reuters.com/d/graphics/AU_CPI0109.gif   Analysts also suspect consumer prices could be flat or even fall again this quarter, dragging the annual pace back into the central bank's 2 to 3 percent target band.   Measures of core inflation, which strip out the biggest price changes in any quarter, showed price falls were hardly broad based with food, clothes, rents and alcohol all rising. But while deflation was a distant danger, inflation was clearly moderating after more than a year of hefty increases. 'Given the precarious state of the economy, declining capacity utilisation and rising unemployment against the backdrop of an intensifying global recession, we continue to think that core inflation will ease further,' said Su-Lin Ong, a senior economist at RBC Capital Markets. 'It confirms a moderation in price pressures and there is a pretty good chance of a 100 basis point rate-cut next week.' KNEE-CAPPED   The risk of recession at home was underlined by a leading index of economic activity, also released on Wednesday.   The annualised growth rate of the Westpac Institutional Bank-Melbourne Institute leading index of economic activity sank to -2.2 percent in November, from -0.3 percent in October .   Particularly alarming was the sudden chill in Australia's big export markets, with China and Japan both reporting a steep drop off in trade in the last couple of months. 'The deepest global recession in 70 years will kneecap the Australian economy, slash national income and see the RBA deliver what should be amazingly stimulatory monetary policy,' said Joshua Williamson, a senior strategist at TD Securities.   He expects the cash rate to sink to 2.0 percent or lower by mid-2009 as the global recession, commodity price falls and weak domestic demand drive inflation below the RBA's target range.   (Editing by Jan Dahinten) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/   (wayne.cole@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1813; Reuters Messaging: wayne.cole.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
