The Australian dollar bounced off one-month lows on Wednesday, aided by a weaker US dollar, with analysts saying its recent sell-off may have been overdone, though nerves remained ahead of key jobs data on Thursday.  The Aussie was still seen vulnerable to further losses as an ailing world economy cuts demand for commodities, which are a major foreign exchange earner for Australia.  'There will be further downward pressure and we expect the Aussie to fall to $US0.65 by the end of March,'' said Richard Grace, a senior currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank.  'Ultimately, the Aussie depends on offshore factors. The Aussie will weaken even if the Australian economy escapes a recession,'' he said.  The Aussie crept up to around $US0.6760, from a low of $US0.6573, but just short of $US0.6770 seen late in local trade on Tuesday.  Australian employment data for December on Thursday is expected to confirm recent gloomy indicators on the labour market, with the jobless rate seen rising as the economy slows.  Data on Wednesday showed demand for Australian home loans was stabilising as interest rate cuts and generous government handouts lured buyers back into the market.  Against the safe-haven Japanese yen, the Aussie traded at 60.57 yen, recovering somewhat from a one-month low of 58.5 yen and compared to 60.40 seen here on Tuesday.  The Aussie had swung to one-month lows against the US dollar and yen, from three- and two-month highs respectively in the past week, as market euphoria at the start of the year evaporated amid more grim economic news, hitting investor risk appetite.  Grace said jitters about the New Zealand dollar had also spread to the Aussie given that both run hefty current account deficits and rely heavily on commodity exports.  The New Zealand dollar tumbled 3% on Tuesday after Standard &amp;amp; Poor's said it could downgrade New Zealand's foreign currency debt rating.  The Aussie firmed against the New Zealand dollar to $NZ1.2146 from $NZ1.2030 seen here on Tuesday.  Fragile market sentiment continued to support safe-haven Aussie bond futures, which touched record highs on Wednesday, though they were later pegged back.  Aussie three-year bond futures added 0.005 points to 96.85, but eased off an all-time high of 96.88 points, while 10-year bond futures fell 0.025 points to 96.015, off a record high of 96.065 points.  
