A SECOND consecutive monthly rise in the number of home loan commitments shows the Reserve Bank's aggressive interest rate cuts were having the desired effect, economists say.  The number of home loans approved in November rose by 1.3 per cent, seasonally adjusted, from October, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) reported.  The outcome were about in line with expectations but provide a glimmer of hope that the economy is steadying.  The value of approved home loans was up by 1.4 per cent, however the value of loans to investors slipped by 6.1 per cent in the month.  In total, housing lending approved was down by 0.9 per cent, continuing this measure's recent meandering about a short-term trend the ABS now estimates to be flat.  Although heading sideways, lending for housing is still down by 21.7 per cent from the previous November, meaning there is $4.8 billion less flowing into the housing sector at last count than a year before.  Still, the flat trend does offer some encouragement, suggesting floor is forming under housing demand.  This does not in any way make another interest rate cut less likely to be announced after the next meeting of the board of the Reserve Bank (RBA) on February 3.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia senior economist Michael Workman said the RBA's rate cuts and increase to the first home owner's scheme were 'undoubtedly'' working to restore confidence in the housing sector.  'The series looks like it is levelling out in terms of owner occupied lending,'' Mr Workman said.  'It is indicating that the interest rate cuts and also the first home buyers scheme have had quite a strong impact on lending.  'The steep declines are over,' he said.  The RBA lowered the cash rate, which sits at 4.25 per cent, by 75 basis points in November and by a combined 300 basis points over the final four months of 2008.  As part of its fiscal stimulus package, the Federal Government doubled the first home owner's grant to $14,000, with $21,000 available for those who purchase a newly constructed dwelling or build their own home.  Mr Workman said expected interest rate cuts in February and March would further support a recovery in the housing industry.  However, he said the recovery would be 'measured'' given the weakening domestic economy.  The Australian dollar reacted positively to the news.  The local currency rose from $US0.6684 before the data was released at 11.30am (AEDT) to $US0.6690 by 12.00pm.  
