By David Dolan   TOKYO, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Japan is reportedly considering cash injections for scores of regional banks in an effort to encourage lending as the financial crisis creates havoc for companies and economies around the globe. A big cut in aluminium output from Alcoa Inc and bankruptcy protection filings by U.S. units of LyondellBasell, the world's third-largest petrochemical company, provided the latest evidence of the corporate struggle with the worst downturn in decades.   But despite the pervading gloom, investors piled into Asian stocks for an eighth straight session on hopes an array of stimulus packages and the cheap, ample supply of money from central banks will kick-start the global economy later this year.   MSCI's index of Asia-Pacific stocks excluding Japan rose 1.7 percent, heading for its longest winning streak since October 2007. 'Obviously market sentiment is improving despite the fundamentals of the global economy remaining weak,' said Karen Lin, a fund manager of Paradigm Asset Management in Taiwan. 'This round of rebound is based on ample liquidity in the market, and it might continue the strong upward momentum if Wall Street doesn't return to its volatile movement seen last year.' Like other major economies, Japan has cut interest rates and promised to increase spending in an effort to drag itself out of recession, which is also gripping much of the developed world.   Tokyo's latest plan under consideration was to inject billions of dollars into 40 or more smaller lenders to boost their capital, a report in the Mainichi newspaper says.   That would make the banks more willing to lend out money, but senior government officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Tokyo was not considering a broad injection of public funds.   GRIM DATA   Once seen as relatively immune to the problems that originated in the U.S. housing and banking sectors, other Asian countries are taking steps to prop up their economies.   Indonesia, which announced a $6.5 billion stimulus plan earlier this week, is expected to lower interest rates later on Wednesday.   Thailand's economic ministers are also due to meet on Wednesday to discuss the details of a planned stimulus package, previously flagged at $8.6 billion.   So far, there is little evidence the host of measures introduced by policy makers have made much difference to economies around the world.   China's fixed-asset investment, a key driver of economic growth, may decelerate this year despite an ambitious, $586 billion stimulus plan announce by Beijing, a state think that said on Wednesday.   The U.S. housing, factory and service sectors produced further misery for the world's largest economy in the final two months of 2008, data showed on Tuesday.   Australian retail sale were surprisingly firm in November, but a steep fall in euro zone inflation in December highlighted the risks of stagnation without further aggressive interest rate cuts from the European Central Bank.   Data later on Wednesday is likely to show German jobless numbers rose in December for the first time since 2006 as recession took hold in Europe's largest economy.   And U.S. employment numbers on Friday are expected to show the economy shed half a million jobs in December alone, taking total 2008 job losses to more than 2.4 million. U.S. retailers are also expected to report they took a hit in December despite deep discounts as consumer confidence slides and unemployment grows.   Alcoa, the biggest aluminium producer in the United States, added to the jobs malaise, saying on Tuesday it would cut more than 15,000 jobs and slash aluminium output by 18 percent as demand shrivels.   Other companies are also taking steps to shore up their finances.   Top U.S. lender Bank of America, raising cash to weather a dismal market at home, was selling a $2.8 billion chunk of its holding in China Construction Bank, sending shares in the Chinese lender lower. 'The news has been expected but investors will still take it hard because BoA will most definitely sell more. They need the money,' said Francis Lun, general manager with Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong.   (Reporting by Reuters bureaux; Writing by Lincoln Feast; Editing by Neil Fullick) Keywords: FINANCIAL/   (lincoln.feast@reuters.com ; +65 6870 3832; Reuters Messaging: lincoln.feast.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
