hrs FRANKFURT: The eurozone's main lending rate will likely be cut Thursday for the fourth consecutive time when the European Central Bank takes a good look at signs of a deepening recession in the 16-nation economy.   Most analysts expect the ECB's governing council to lower its benchmark rate by a half percentage point to 2.0 per cent owing to the relentless evidence of an unprecedented downturn in progress. 'Amid mounting evidence that the economy is contracting at record speed, we continue to expect a 50 basis point (0.50 percentage point) ECB rate cut,' said Bank of America senior economist Holger Schmieding.   The latest gloomy indicator was eurozone industrial output, which plunged by 1.6 per cent in November from the previous month, bringing the slump over a year to 7.7 per cent - the biggest drop since records began in 1990, the European Union's Eurostat data agency said Wednesday.   Foreign exchange markets have also pencilled in an ECB rate cut, albeit a possibly smaller one of 0.25 percentage points.   Analysts at Barclays Capital in London said the euro would come under pressure if the ECB gradually lowered eurozone interest rates in the coming months, reducing the currency's yield advantage over the dollar and yen. 'We continue to expect the euro-dollar to head lower in the coming months,' they wrote in a research note as the single currency traded for roughly US$1.32. Economic prospects for the recession-hit eurozone this year look decidedly bleak, and the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development warned that worse lay ahead. 'We have not seen the worst... with further deceleration in prospect,' said Angel Gurria, OECD secretary general, as the grouping of developed economies released a report on the eurozone.   He underscored a continuing contraction in housing markets and slumping demand for European exports, but said that on the positive side, 'further falls in inflation are likely in coming months and we expect the ECB to reduce interest rates further.' Central bank president Jean-Claude Trichet and other ECB directors have opened the door to a rate cut in recent press interviews, and inflation - the bank's main concern - is now at 1.6 per cent, well below the target of just under 2.0 per cent.   - AFP/yb
