Again, I apologize for the long delays between postings. It has been a very trying time for me. In the future, I will not be able to post as often as I did in the past. The conditions have changed that would make that impossible. But, I will still try to make sense of this crazy financial world and share that with you.Since we have been in some extremely crazy times in the last several weeks (especially the last two with all the talks of the bailout packages), I thought it fitting to review some of the warnings I issued in this blog. You can be the judge on how accurate I was.Friday, November 2, 2007... gold is $806.40, silver is $14.55, oil is $95.93 per barrel ...The Federal Reserve lowered interest rates another quarter point to 4.5% on Wednesday to bolster the money supply and keep the economy moving. ...The foreign exchange rates for the Great British Pound, the Euro, the Swiss Franc were all at multi-decade highs against the US dollar.What does all this mean? The US dollar is getting weaker and weaker, eroding purchasing power of all consumers, increasing the US trade deficit and sending more money out of the country and even less entering. All of this leads to increased pressure for inflation. Now, with the Fed lowering interest rates again this week, they are trying to increase the money supply which further increases inflationary pressures. ... Gas prices will just be one of many things that will cost a lot more.The road up ahead curves ... stay tuned.Saturday, November 17, 2007We are not looking at an eruption, but an implosion of the economy resulting from many factors. The sub prime crash is only one indicator. The declining real estate market, the eroding value of the dollar, the rising prices of more intrinsic precious metals are climbing such as gold and silver, and the continued rising price of oil. All of these are signs.Now, to fast forward some. When you factor in Social Security facing insolvency within the next decade; and add in the imminent failure of MediCare and MediCaid coupled with the rising number of baby boomers retiring (or trying to), and inflation rising. All of these indicators are leading up to a 'perfect storm' developing. Never before have all of these factors come together at once.Wednesday, November 21, 2007When the sub-prime loan issue started happening in August, adjustable rate mortgages were going up and people who couldn't afford the increases started defaulting on their payments. The decrease of incoming funds to the banks started restricting what they could lend out. Private banks had to bail out smaller banks by lending federal funds to keep them open. Then the loans started going into foreclosure, and more money had to be loaned to keep the banks open. Still, thousands of people lost their homes.This was really bad for our economy, but it was leading to something far worse. The Federal Reserve, dropped the discount rate by 1/2 of percent in their September meeting, a big drop. They had to create more credit to keep the money moving. They again lowered the discount rate another 1/4 percent in October. They were willing to risk inflation to keep the economy from completely stalling. The sudden influx of cash and credit spurred on inflation. With the increasing cost of gas and now consumer goods, everything started going up. As mentioned yesterday, when costs rise and wages don't keep up, the overall economic situation for the consumer decreases each year.Saturday, December 1, 2007... Based on the beginning of wave 1 around Aug. 20 at $660 per ounce, gold will very likely go up to a minimum of $960 from its point now in the coming months. The upper target is $1250 per ounce. This wave 3 will likely happen over the next six months.  ...The Elliott Wave target prices for silver on the low end is $18.00 per ounce and the upper target is around $24.50.Saturday, December 8, 2007Did you ever notice that the price of gas at the pump goes up almost immediately when oil prices go up? However, when the price of oil goes down, the price at the pump is slow to react. Interesting. Someone is making a lot of money on those slow fluctuations.Monday, December 10, 2007The first thing you have to understand is that oil is the currency of the world. Every 1st world country is heavily influenced by the price of oil because of its dependency on oil for energy, transportation, and manufacturing. How long could you or anyone you know last without filling up your car with gas?The key thing to remember that as one asset classes increases, other classes will either follow suit because they are linked, or act conversely because of the inverse relationship.Friday, December 14, 2007So when the flow of money is controlled globally and nationally, it has a direct correlation to how businesses and consumers respond. The price of oil and interest rates are just some of the key variables that they use to dramatically influence the state of the world. Their ultimate goal is to have a world government and complete control over all financial matters. If we ever get to a cashless society, they would control who could buy or sell anything. Naturally, credit card companies would love this idea. Controlling the rates of exchange and money supply is not enough for them. Absolute power corrupts absolutely.Saturday, December 15, 2007This past week I've been discussing the inter-relationships among a number of key indicators that drive the world economy. With the price of oil at near record highs and the fallout of the sub-prime mortgage crisis, the global economy was at an edge and was in danger of going into hyperinflation followed by depression. Thousands had lost their homes to defaults, and many banks were on the verge of bankruptcy due to the reduced cash flow from the defaults.On Thursday Dec. 13th, the 5 major central banks from around the world (the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Swiss National Bank, and the Bank of Canada), pooled $114 billion to prop up the global economy by injecting cash into the money markets. On Monday, the Fed will auction off $20 billion in loans and accept a wide range of collateral to spur on the economy. The Bank of England will auction off 11.35 billion pounds on Tuesday. "The banks hope that the new term auction facility at favourable rates will boost liquidity, ultimately benefiting their economies by making it easier for businesses and consumers to borrow money to invest and spend on goods and services."My personal take on this latest move is that the imminent collapse of the US economy was happening faster than expected. Drastic measures never taken before had to be implemented because some elements of the plan were not fully in place.Saturday, December 29, 2007...gold and silver both shot up in value to $839.50 per ounce and $14.81 per ounce respectively.In January, I expect this trend to continue and even pick up speed. Since putting 114 billion available to banks in loans has not encouraged spending, the value of the dollar will continue to plummet. This will spur on inflation. Double digit inflation for 2008 will almost be assured. The Fed will continue to reduce interest rates, but it will likely slow things down just temporarily as it has since Sept. Gold and silver and other precious metals will continue to climb in value as I mentioned on my Dec. 1st post. The target price I set for gold is $1250 and silver is $24.50 per ounce within 6 months. Those even may be low considering the perfect economic storm that is developing.The wildcard that remains is what will happen to the price of oil. If oil continues to go up significantly in early 2008, that will accelerate things considerably. If oil inches up, it will be more gradual. The other major developments that can strengthen the economic storm will be events like the US invasion of Iran and the replacement of the US dollar with the Amero. However, I do not expect these events to happen until 2009.Saturday, January 12, 2008I've also mentioned that the US dollar has been losing its value over the last year. This has been one of many reasons why gold and silver has been appreciating significantly. The dramatic steps that the Federal Reserve has taken to prop up the dollar has risen the value of the dollar temporarily, as stated in previous Saturday posts. However, since Christmas, the value has started to plummet again, just as I pointed out it would. This week, the US dollar index fell to 76.02.This is having a ripple effect on other markets as well, as I have also pointed out in previous posts. The stock market is starting to feel the pinch of the sluggish economy. Since the beginning of the 4th quarter, the NASDAQ has fallen more than 6%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average has also dropped 5.6%.The point I am reiterating is that the economy is headed for a fall. Over the past several months I've given many reasons for this, but the facts are being validated each week. The signs are there.Saturday, January 26, 2008This week was very interesting in the financial world. On Monday, the markets were closed in the US because of Martin Luther King, Jr. day; however, stock markets worldwide sank drastically amid concerns about the overall health of the US economy and a pending recession. The current credit crunch as result of last August's sub-prime mortgage meltdown makes the matters worse. These concerns heightened this week due to declining corporate profits and the worse housing report on record. For the first time on record, year-over-year housing prices dropped 13% against 2007 prices. This caused the Federal Reserve to take a drastic step.Before trading opened on Tuesday, the Fed slashed interest rates three quarters of a percent or 75 basis points. The federal funds rate now is 3.5% and the discount rate was lowered to 4.0%. This was the largest rate drop in 24 years. This move came 8 days before their next scheduled meeting suggesting that they are responding to a problem tha...
