Fed Opens Cash Spigot to Overseas Credit MarketsGo To OriginalThe Federal Reserve threw open its coffers to strained overseas credit  markets, taking further steps to stem the global financial crisis. The U.S. central bank said Monday it would provide unlimited dollars to the  European Central Bank, Bank of England and Swiss National Bank, allowing them to  relieve pressure on commercial banks across their regions. Dollars have become  elusive in recent weeks as short-term money markets around the world  deteriorate. Domestic and foreign banks largely have been frozen out of loans  beyond a day as institutions hoard resources amid concerns about the health of  trading partners. The U.S. previously had extended $620 billion in currency swaps with foreign  central banks, which provide the funds in exchange for collateral from  commercial banks. Removing the limits should provide assurance for foreign  commercial banks in the affected regions to get funds to support their  dollar-denominated investments. The Fed authorized the swap lines through  April. "This is big stuff, as bold a move as I could imagine," said Ray Stone of  Stone &amp;amp; McCarthy Research Associates. European banks have increased their dollar-denominated investments, such as  U.S. mortgage securities, by $499 billion since 2000, according to the Bank for  International Settlements The Fed and ECB have steadily expanded their swap line since opening it in  December. Last month, the ECB and Bank of England began auctioning dollars  daily. Those overnight funds helped to overcome a time-zone hurdle that left  European banks scrambling for dollars when U.S. markets were closed. Monday's move permits European central banks to lend as many dollars as banks  request, for terms of a week, a month, or 84 days. The scaling up from piecemeal  actions to limitless supplies should ease tensions in dollar-denominated  interbank lending markets. "The central banks here are providing a market that simply doesn't exist any  more in the private sector," said Julian Callow, European economist with  Barclays Capital in London. "Particularly for European banks, which have been so  dependent on U.S. dollar funding, I think it's very important." The U.S. central bank received authority this month to start paying interest  in reserves that commercial banks deposit at the Fed, offering vastly more room  to expand its liquidity facilities during the financial crisis. The announcement came early Monday morning from the four participating  central banks and the Bank of Japan, which is considering similar measures. Last  Wednesday, six central banks -- including the four from Monday's action along  with central banks in Canada and Sweden -- jointly announced a  half-percentage-point cut in interest rates. Before the Fed's announcement, European central banks had to dole out their  dollars in relatively small amounts. At the ECB's most recent auction of 84-day  dollar funds, for example, 70 banks bid $88.6 billion for the $20 billion on  offer.
