From the recent e-newsletter to markferguson.co.nz databse  OCR FALL - gives the banks room to move  Good news today for those with Mortgages - banks are lowering their rates. This will mean the following;  * further decline in real estate prices are unlikely as investors and first homebuyers will be attracted back to the market  *those with mortgages will get some interest rate relief and those that wish to borrow more to upgrade their home through purchase will be able to afford this more so they have been able toin recent times  *Interest rate decreases will give the public confidence that the Reserve Bankis taking the economy and housing market seriously and that they are doing all they can to correct the markets   TODAYS PRESS RELEASE BELOW:  In its biggest cut ever, the Reserve Bank has slashed the official cash rate by a whopping 1 percentage point to 6.5 percent and hinted at more cuts to come.  The cut, in line with economists&amp;#8217; expectations, comes with the New Zealand economy in recession against a backdrop of the world&amp;#8217;s biggest financial crisis since the 1930s. Kiwibank and ASB have been the first retail banks to follow suit and cut home mortgage rates, followed by TSB Bank. Kiwibank dropped its variable home loan rate by one percentage point. Chief executive Sam Knowles said the new variable rate would be 8.70 percent per annum with immediate effect for new customers and in two weeks for existing customers. &amp;#8220;We are also making cuts across the board to our fixed term rates,&amp;#8221; Mr Knowles said. The one-year rate has also been cut to 7.99 percent. ASB Bank was the first of the major banks to move, reducing its fixed lending rates, but keeping its variable rate under review. Among its new rates are a 6 month fixed rate of 7.99 percent, compared with its website-advertised rate of 9.25 percent, and a 12 month rate of 8.1 percent, compared with 8.95 percent on the website. The rates would take effect from tomorrow, the bank said. TSB Bank has also cut its fixed lending rates, with its one-year fixed rate going from 8.50 percent to 7.98 percent. While it had also left its variable rate unchanged, this was under review. Meanwhile, Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard said if inflation fell as expected, he was likely to cut interest rates further. Economists are now picking the OCR to fall to as low as 4.5 percent by next March. ASB Chief Economist Nick Tuffley said he fully endorsed the Reserve Bank&amp;#8217;s action. &amp;#8220;What has been happening in the world over the past month has been extraordinary, and we have seen governments and central banks take actions that would have been inconceivable at the start of the year,&amp;#8221; Tuffley said. Bollard said ongoing global financial market turmoil and a deteriorating outlook for global economic growth had played a large role in shaping the central bank&amp;#8217;s decision. &amp;#8220;Economic activity in New Zealand will be further constrained, relative to the outlook presented in our September Monetary Policy Statement, by these international developments,&amp;#8221; Bollard added. &amp;#8220;New Zealand can expect to face lower demand for exports and credit is likely to be less readily available. In this environment consumers and businesses are likely to be more cautious and curtail spending.&amp;#8221; He said, however, that the reduction in domestic spending would partly be offset by the falling New Zealand dollar and lower oil prices. The dollar pushed above US59 cents after the announcement, after falling more than 2c against the greenback to below US58c overnight. Bollard said the central bank&amp;#8217;s focus would remain on medium-term inflation. &amp;#8220;Should the outlook for inflation evolve as projected we would expect to lower the OCR further,&amp;#8221; Bollard added. &amp;#8220;However, the timing and extent of OCR reductions over the coming months will depend on evidence of actual reductions in domestic cost pressures as well as how the global financial developments play out.&amp;#8221; With weaker short-term growth and sharply lower oil prices he said the Reserve Bank now expected annual Consumer Price Index inflation would return to the Reserve Bank&amp;#8217;s target band of 1 to 3 percent around the middle of 2009. &amp;#8220;However, we still have concerns that domestically generated inflation (particularly in labour costs, local body rates, electricity prices and construction costs) is remaining stubbornly high,&amp;#8221; said Bollard. Tuffley expects a further 50 basis point cut in December, followed by cuts of 25 basis points each in January and March leaving the OCR at 5.5 percent. UBS New Zealand senior economist Robin Clements said it was curious that Bollard made no comments about the impact of the global credit crisis on domestic bank&amp;#8217;s funding costs as a rationale for his dramatic OCR cut. Clements expects the OCR to be cut to 5.75 percent by March. Stephen Halmarick, the Australasian co-head of economic and market analysis at Citigroup, said he now expected the OCR to be cut to 4.5 percent by next March. &amp;#8220;We expect another cut of 50 basis points at the December meeting, with the risks firmly to the upside if conditions remain as they do at present,&amp;#8221; Halmarick said. The Reserve Bank has never previously cut the OCR by more than half a percent, or 50 basis points, since its introduction in March 1999. The OCR, or overnight interest rate target, is the rate at which the Reserve Bank will borrow and lend. Its introduction in 1999 replaced the Monetary Conditions Index  
