Former bank official with United Bank of Africa (UBA) yesterday identified the two businessmen who opened an account that was hurriedly credited with 1.86bn/- from Central Bank. Ms Twilumba Talawa, currently manager with Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), Mlimani Branch, named the two businessmen as Rajab Maranda and Farijala Hussein, who were in the dock at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate's Court. The manager, who is the third prosecution witness (PW3), said Hussein presented before her documents that were used to open the bank account, while she attended Maranda frequently during the operation of the account. Ms Talawa was testifying against the businessmen, who are charged with forgery and stealing 1,864,949,294/45 from the External Payment Arrears (EPA) account of the Bank of Tanzania (BoT). She told principal resident magistrates Cypriana William, Saul Kinemela and Phocus Bampikya that the two businessmen opened and later operated account number 0101305008 under business name of Kiloloma and Brothers. Led by Principal State Attorney Stanislaus Boniface, the witness testified that she knew such business name for the first time when Hussein went at the UBA to open the account on August 31, 2005. Meanwhile, senior bank official with Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA), Mr Ronald Manongi, told the court yesterday that he was satisfied by the BoT answers that funds credited to Kiloloma Brothers were genuine. Mr Manongi, the Head of Operations and Service Delivery and Administration, was being cross-examined by Advocate Majura Magafu when he also said the company opened the account after fulfilling laid down procedures. The bank official, the second prosecution witness, testified that he never heard any problem involving the bank account since the two businessmen opened it at his bank before its implication with EPA. However, the witness said, he was not aware whether Kiloloma and Brothers acted as agents of B.C. Cars Export Limited of Mumbai in India, who were beneficiaries of the said 1.86bn/- debt from the Central Bank. Previously, Mr Manongi had told the court that out of 1,864,949,294/45 credited to Kiloloma and Brothers account only 350,000 Sterling Pounds, equivalent to 714,700,000/- was transferred to B.C. Cars Export Limited. In cross-examination, however, the witness told the court that he never heard from the Indian Company nor the BoT, complaining that Kiloloma and Brothers unjustifiably pocketed the money. Hearing continues today. 
