 NOT PRECEDENTIAL UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT Nos. 06-3519 &amp;amp; 06-3666 STEPHEN P. JURINKO; CYNTHIA JURINKO, H/W as assignees of Paul G. Marcincin, v. THE MEDICAL PROTECTIVE COMPANY; MEDICAL CARE AVAILABILITY AND REDUCTION OF ERROR FUND, Successor in interest to or formerly known as Medical Professional Liability Catastrophe Loss Fund Medical Protective Company, Appellant at 06-3519 Stephen P. Jurinko; Cynthia Jurinko, Appellants in 06-3666  On Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania D.C. Civil Action No. 03-cv-04053 (District Judge: Honorable Cynthia M. Rufe) Argued January 17, 2008 Before: SCIRICA, Chief Judge, BARRY* and ROTH, Circuit Judges. (Filed: December 24, 2008)  The Honorable Maryanne Trump Barry participated in the oral argument but discovered facts causing her to recuse from this matter prior to filing of the Opinion. The remaining judges are unanimous in this decision, and this Opinion and Judgment are therefore being filed by a quorum of the panel.  * JAMES C. SARGENT, JR., ESQUIRE (ARGUED) Lamb McErlane 24 East Market Street P.O. Box 565 West Chester, Pennsylvania 19381 JEFFREY R. LERMAN, ESQUIRE GLENN F. ROSENBLUM, ESQUIRE Montgomery, McCracken, Walker &amp;amp; Rhoads 123 South Broad Street, 24th Floor Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 Attorneys for Appellant/Cross-Appellee, The Medical Protective Company MARK W. TANNER, ESQUIRE (ARGUED) Feldman, Shepherd, Wohlgelernter, Tanner &amp;amp; Weinstock 1845 Walnut Street, 25th Floor Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 MARK B. FROST, ESQUIRE Frost &amp;amp; Zeff Pier 5 at Penn's Landing, 2nd Floor 7 North Christopher Columbus Boulevard Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106 Attorneys for Appellees/Cross-Appellants, Stephen P. Jurinko and Cynthia Jurinko, H/W as assignees of Paul G. Marcincin  OPINION OF THE COURT SCIRICA, Chief Judge. Plaintiffs Stephen and Cynthia Jurinko brought a diversity action in federal court alleging bad faith on the part of an insurer, The Medical Protective Company, in a medical malpractice suit Mr. Jurinko brought in state court against Medical Protective's 2 insured, Dr. Paul Marcincin. A state jury found Dr. Marcincin liable for medical malpractice and awarded Mr. Jurinko $2.5 million in damages, $1.3 million more than Dr. Marcincin's coverage. In lieu of paying the excess verdict, Dr. Marcincin assigned to the Jurinkos his bad faith claim against Medical Protective for its conduct in the malpractice action. A federal jury found Medical Protective acted in bad faith and awarded the Jurinkos compensatory and punitive damages, in the amounts of $1,658,345 and $6,250,000 respectively. The District Court denied Medical Protective's post-trial motions seeking reversal of the jury verdict and a new trial, and then granted in part and denied in part the Jurinkos' motion to mold the verdict, awarding attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. Both parties have appealed. We will affirm in part, but will reduce the amount of punitive damages awarded. I. A. On July 24, 1992, Stephen Jurinko visited Dr. Paul Marcincin, a dermatologist, at his office in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Jurinko had a dark spot on his nose, which Dr. Marcincin treated topically. In 1993, the spot returned, and Jurinko visited Dr. Marcincin again. Dr. Marcincin took a shaved biopsy, which he sent to the SmithKline Beecham Laboratory for pathology analysis. Dr. Andrew S. Edelman, a SmithKline pathologist, reviewed the sample and issued a report that found no cancer cells but explained that the sample was insufficient to rule out cancer. A portion of the skin from Jurinko's nose -- 3 the base of the epithelium -- was not included in the sample. Without it, Dr. Edelman could not conclusively rule out cancer. Despite Dr. Edelman's report explicitly finding the results inconclusive, Dr. Marcincin interpreted the report as ruling out cancer and did not follow up on the missing portion of the sample. On July 21, 1999, Jurinko again saw Dr. Marcincin because the spot had returned. Dr. Marcincin removed the spot. But in April 2000, Jurinko discovered a lump on his neck. A biopsy revealed it was a lymphatic malignant tumor. Jurinko notified Dr. Marcincin, who contacted SmithKline, requesting the 1993 sample be retested. After reviewing the 1993 sample, SmithKline pathologists detected cancer cells. B. Jurinko filed suit against Dr. Marcincin, Dr. Edelman, and SmithKline. Both Dr. Edelman and Dr. Marcincin had primary malpractice coverage through Medical Protective and statutory excess coverage through the CAT/MCARE Fund.1 Medical Protective provided Dr. Marcincin with $200,000 in primary coverage, and the CAT Fund provided $1 million in excess coverage. Because Medical Protective insured both Dr. Marcincin and Dr. Edelman, Medical Protective was obligated to appoint counsel for each physician. Nevertheless, Medical Protective's claims adjuster, James Alff, appointed only one attorney, James Kilcoyne, to  The CAT Fund refers to the 'Medical Professional Liability Catastrophic Loss Fund.' The CAT Fund became the 'Medical Care Availability and Reduction of Error Fund,' or MCARE Fund, during the course of these events. For relevant purposes here the CAT and MCARE funds are the same. 4  1 represent both physicians despite knowing this created a conflict of interest in violation of the Pennsylvania Rules of Professional Conduct. Kilcoyne filed an answer to the complaint on Dr. Edelman's behalf. Kilcoyne represented Dr. Edelman from September 2000 through May 15, 2001, when Kilcoyne withdrew his appearance. Kilcoyne continued to represent Dr. Marcincin for the remainder of the state court litigation. For its part, the CAT Fund determined it was required to provide primary coverage for Dr. Edelman because the suit was commenced more than four years after the alleged misdiagnosis.2 Once the CAT Fund accepted Dr. Edelman's defense, it appointed attorney Jack Snyder to represent him. In December 2001, Mr. Jurinko's attorney, Mark Frost, demanded $4 million but the defendants refused to settle. In a January 2002 post-discovery and pre-trial settlement conference, Court of Common Pleas Judge Sandra Mazer Moss recommended an amount between $1.5 and $2 million.3 Post-conference, Frost made a new settlement demand of $2 million, which defendants rejected without making a counter-offer. Judge Moss held another conference, which Dr. Marcincin attended. After the conference Dr. Marcincin 2 40 Pa. Stat. Ann.  1301.605 provides: In the event that any claim is made against a health care provider subject to the provisions of Article VII more than four years after the breach of contract or tort occurred which is filed within the statute of limitations, such claim shall be defended and paid by the [CAT] Fund.  At the time of the settlement conference, there were three defendants in the case: Dr. Marcincin, SmithKline, and Dr. Edelman. Judge Moss recommended each party provide equal contributions. 5  3 informed Kilcoyne, in writing, that he wanted to settle. Kilcoyne told Alff, Medical Protective's claims adjuster, the case should be settled. He explained to Alff that Dr. Parrish, one of the experts to be called on Dr. Marcincin's behalf, told him that Dr. Marcincin's 'notes were terrible, and could be problematic at the time of trial.' There was also a concern that the jury would be confused by the case's medical complexities. Despite these concerns, Alff made no further attempt to settle prior to trial. In April 2002, the case was tried before a jury in the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, Judge Alfred DiBona presiding. Judge DiBona also recommended settlement, in the amount of $1.6 million. On April 5, the CAT Fund wrote Medical Protective, requesting it tender its policy. The letter stated: As we have discussed, it is the [CAT] Fund's position that Dr. Marcincin's exposure in this matter exceeds his primary limits, thus a full tender from The Medical Protective Company on his behalf is warranted. Offering anything less than a tender on behalf of Dr. Marcincin is in bad faith and will adversely affect a global effort to settle this case. Because the CAT Fund was Dr. Marcincin's excess insurer it could not offer any of its $1 million in a settlement until Medical Protective, the primary insurer, tendered its policy. But Alff responded that Medical Protective would neither offer the policy limits nor offer more than $50,000. Pre-trial, the defendants offered a settlement of $650,000, with Medical Protective still only willing to contribute $50,000,4 which Jurinko did not accept. During trial, 4 SmithKline and the CAT Fund would have each contributed $300,000. While the (continued...) 6 SmithKline entered into a joint tortfeasor settlement agreement with Jurinko. Only after the trial and verdict did Medical Protective learn SmithKline had paid $525,000 in settlement. After SmithKline settled, the CAT Fund's counsel, Jack Snyder, discussed with Kilcoyne the possibility of making a settlement offer of $650,000. The CAT Fund would have offered $500,000 on behalf of Dr. Edelman. Snyder asked Kilcoyne if Medical Protective would offer $150,000 on behalf of Dr. Marcincin. Kilcoyne discussed this possibility with Alff, but Medical Protective never offered more than $50,000. During trial and after Smithkline settled, Jurinko made a final settlement demand on Dr. Edelman and Dr. Marcincin of $1.1 million. Medical Protective refused to settle at this amount and determined the case would likely go to verdict. Kilcoyne believed an adverse verdict would likely be between $750,000 and $1 million. In his notes, Alff wrote that he thought the case was worth $750,000, but would likely settle for $1 million. Frost had authority from Jurinko to accept $1 million. But Alff resolved to 'hold tight [at $50,000] and see how this plays out.' (...continued) CAT Fund was Dr. Marcincin's excess insurer, any money contributed was on behalf of Dr. Edelman, as his primary ins...
