NEW YORK, Jan. 21 /PRNewswire/ -- Wolf Popper LLP has filed a class action lawsuit against Bank of America Corp. ('Bank of America') , Kenneth Lewis and John Thain, among others, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, on behalf of all persons who owned shares of Bank of America on October 10, 2008, who were entitled to vote to approve the adoption of a merger agreement between Bank of America and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., Inc. ('Merrill Lynch') pursuant to a Proxy Statement dated October 31, 2008 (the 'Proxy Statement') (the 'Class'). This action alleges claims for violations of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The case has been assigned Civil Action No. 09 Civ. 580.   The facts underlying this action concern the Merger of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, which closed on January 1, 2009. The complaint alleges that on January 16, 2009, Bank of America disclosed Merrill Lynch's preliminary 2008 fourth quarter loss of $15.3 billion. Merrill Lynch's fourth quarter 2008 'principal transactions' revenue was negative $13.1 billion, reflecting a net loss owing to write-downs, mark-to-market valuation declines and other losses on assets held in its trading portfolio. It is alleged that as a result of this massive loss Bank of America was compelled to seek additional funding and asset guarantees from the United States Treasury Department. Following these disclosures, Bank of America shares declined by 31% between January 14, 2009 and January 16, 2009.  The complaint charges that the Proxy Statement contained material misrepresentations and failed to disclose facts necessary to make the disclosures true. Specifically, defendants' misrepresentations and omissions include the failure to update, amend or correct the Proxy Statement to reflect, among other things, the risk or existence of Merrill Lynch's fourth quarter losses, prior to the December 5, 2008 vote by Bank of America shareholders to approve the Merger.  If you are a member of the Class, you may move the court no later than March 23, 2009, and request that the Court appoint you as lead plaintiff. A lead plaintiff is a representative party acting on behalf of other class members in directing the litigation. To be appointed lead plaintiff, the Court must decide that your claim is typical of the claims of other class members, and that you will adequately represent the class.  Wolf Popper LLP has extensive experience representing shareholders in class actions and has successfully recovered billions of dollars for defrauded investors and shareholders. The reputation and expertise of the firm in shareholder and other class action litigation has been repeatedly recognized by the courts, which have appointed the firm to major positions in complex multi-district and consolidated litigations.  The firm's experience includes its representation of Mattel shareholders in similar claims under Section 14(a), where it was co-lead counsel with primary responsibility for the prosecution of those proxy statement claims. That action against Mattel resulted in what was believed to be the then largest settlement of a Section 14(a) case.  For more information or to pursue your right to be appointed lead plaintiff, please contact:  Email: irrep@wolfpopper.com  website: http://www.wolfpopper.com  Attorney Advertising - Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome  CONTACT: James Harrod, Esq. of Wolf Popper LLP, +1-212-759-4600, or  Web site: http://www.wolfpopper.com/ 
