----------------- Bulletin Message -----------------From: Naomi Date: Nov 12, 2008 11:27 PMBreak The Bailout!PLEASE FORWARD AND BUILD A MOVEMENT TO BREAK THE BAILOUTThis week the Federal Reserve refused to identify the recipients of almost $2 trillion of emergency loans from American taxpayers or the troubled assets the central bank is accepting as collateral. And, AIG, the insurance giant made infamous for having a $450,000 party for their executives after receiving their first bailout check eight weeks ago is now getting more money from the U.S. Treasury  taxpayers are now giving them a total of $150 billion.Well, we've had enough. And, we know that the only way we are going to Break the Bailout and create an economy for the people and not the banksters is to get organized and work together.So, we've started a transpartisan campaign  Break the Bailout  visit www. BreakTheBailout. com to see what we're planning.Essentially, we're going to build a community, a citizen's movement, to fight for the economy we want and to Break the Bailout. We're going to be delivering blowback on the bailout to elected officials who are supposed to represent the people  the voters who put them in office  not big banks and Wall Street.We know the country is outraged and we're going to redirect that outrage into constructive action. We're going to educate the voters on what the bailout really means and organize them to demand change. Here's what we want you to do:Take action today, Break the Bailout tomorrow:(1) PLEDGE - We're holding a MONEYBOMB on December7, 2008 to show elected officials we're serious. Pledge today by filling out the "please pledge now" form on www. BreakTheBailout. com, then come back and join us on December 7  the moneybomb day  to make your donation and watch the collections mount up. Become a Bailout Breaker!(2) Build community. Our adversaries act together, and so must we.(3) Get the word out. Help the American people to understand what is being done to them. Educate. Publicize.(4) Identify the persons responsible. Prepare voter guides and other educational materials telling people where their congresscritters stand on the bailout scam.(5) Be an activist. Let these people know they're not going to get away with it.Break the Bailout is going to be at the international conference being held this weekend in Washington, DC -- join us if you can. You can watch the coverage and interviews on our website. And, on Monday at 8 PM eastern we will be debuting a new interactive Internet television show entitled Break the Bailout. Come join us and ask questions, learn about our plan and more.Acting alone, we can achieve nothing; acting together, we can change everything. Join us today.Break The Bailout!PLEASE FORWARD AND BUILD A MOVEMENT TO BREAK THE BAILOUTThis week the Federal Reserve refused to identify the recipients of almost $2 trillion of emergency loans from American taxpayers or the troubled assets the central bank is accepting as collateral. And, AIG, the insurance giant made infamous for having a $450,000 party for their executives after receiving their first bailout check eight weeks ago is now getting more money from the U.S. Treasury  taxpayers are now giving them a total of $150 billion.Well, we've had enough. And, we know that the only way we are going to Break the Bailout and create an economy for the people and not the banksters is to get organized and work together.So, we've started a transpartisan campaign  Break the Bailout  visit www. BreakTheBailout. com to see what we're planning.Essentially, we're going to build a community, a citizen's movement, to fight for the economy we want and to Break the Bailout. We're going to be delivering blowback on the bailout to elected officials who are supposed to represent the people  the voters who put them in office  not big banks and Wall Street.We know the country is outraged and we're going to redirect that outrage into constructive action. We're going to educate the voters on what the bailout really means and organize them to demand change. Here's what we want you to do:Take action today, Break the Bailout tomorrow:(1) PLEDGE - We're holding a MONEYBOMB on December7, 2008 to show elected officials we're serious. Pledge today by filling out the "please pledge now" form on www. BreakTheBailout. com, then come back and join us on December 7  the moneybomb day  to make your donation and watch the collections mount up. Become a Bailout Breaker!(2) Build community. Our adversaries act together, and so must we.(3) Get the word out. Help the American people to understand what is being done to them. Educate. Publicize.(4) Identify the persons responsible. Prepare voter guides and other educational materials telling people where their congresscritters stand on the bailout scam.(5) Be an activist. Let these people know they're not going to get away with it.Break the Bailout is going to be at the international conference being held this weekend in Washington, DC -- join us if you can. You can watch the coverage and interviews on our website. And, on Monday at 8 PM eastern we will be debuting a new interactive Internet television show entitled Break the Bailout. Come join us and ask questions, learn about our plan and more.Acting alone, we can achieve nothing; acting together, we can change everything. Join us today.
