I have refrained from saying much about the Massive Government Bailout of 2008, mainly because it made me so flipping mad I thought I might say something I would later regret.  Today, however, I saw a few things that have convinced me to break my silence.  Read on at your own risk.  I assume no liability for rage-induced exploding skulls or seemingly rational revenge-based excursions to Washington.1.  Remember AIG?  That's the giant insurance conglomerate that the United States Government bought out back in September to the tune of $85 billion.  Two weeks later, executives from the company took a $440,000 "business junket" to California on the taxpayer's dime.  This must have somehow pleased the U.S. Federal Government, who proceeded to loan AIG $37.8 billion more.  Pretty generous, right?  Apparently not generous enough.  Today the news broke that AIG will receive an additional $27 billion in federal loans.  That's right, $150 billion of our money to this fine upstanding company.  That's money well spent.2.  It seems the Democrats already have favors coming due.  Yesterday Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson asking him to consider bailing out Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors.  I guess they were uncomfortable with all those United Auto Workers being laid off, especially since they were instructed to vote for Barack Obama.  Kind of peculiar, though, since President-Elect Obama apparently intends to legislate the internal combustion engine to the dustbin of history.  (For an excellent discussion of this issue from a native Michigander's perspective, ask Chuck.)  So remember to scamper out and buy American the next time you need a new vehicle.  After all, you will own the company!  I doubt they'll give you the employee discount though.3.  So at least with all this intervention the problems are improving, right?  Wrong.  Two more banks went under this weekend, bringing the grand total to 19.  It seems not even the mighty hand of the U.S. Government can keep the market from claiming its dead.  Not that we won't continue to try.  Apparently the bailouts are just beginning.  And don't forget the coming New and Improved Stimulus Package!  Chances are, your elected officials in Congress will continue to vote your money into this sucking black hole.  Because, hey, what's another $150 billion anyway?  Spend all you want; they'll print more.    And that, ladies and gentlemen, is today's report on the baby bailout snowball.  I say baby, because it has just started rolling.  Unfortunately for all of us, we will be standing at the bottom of the hill when the avalanche arrives.  Unless, that is, you have moved to New Zealand.
