November 18, 2008&amp;nbsp; Ecuador's leader Rafael Correa has been busy solidifying his passion for blaming everyone else for the crimes his government commits. This is a standard operating procedure for every Ecuadorean today: blame everyone else and take no adult responsibility for anything in this ethically deadened zone, just ripe for the Russo-Iranian bloc of criminal adventurers. As recently written about Chavez's Venezuela in the WASHINGTON TIMES, "Caracas is on a seemingly unstoppable downward slide. The invading poor have endangered the city of 6 million as never before. The wealthy (those not seeking refuge in southern Florida, Colombia or Spain) lead a semi-surrealistic existence reflecting a sense of smiling through the ever-increasing gloom, plus a devout dream that somehow, someday Venezuela will be rid of Mr. Chavez, socialism and insecurity. This is very true about Ecuador: the poor keep getting poorer because Correa refuses support for honest employment and the so called educated care nothing about anyone or anything except their false piety, also called living la vida manipulativa of country club Catholics and meaningless addiction to grabbing Something for Nothing.&amp;nbsp;It is this semi surreal abandonment of responsibility by the citizens of Ecuador that is repulsive and morally negated, even as each and every one today wants to tell you that they are willing- wanting- to negotiate everything in life, including essential ethics- if only- if only to their selfish advantage, including life's morals and even democracy, left meaningless to every coward in Ecuador today which is about the entire nation- a nation of cowards who have sold out freedom for the lure of the shopping mall.&amp;nbsp;Ecuador is not alone. The USA has seemingly forgotten the urgency of truthtelling for the seduction of half truths and lives lived by excuses:Still this recent article on Venezuela [forgetting to mention the education by the state take over by the Chavez-Ayers-communist team] continues, "While patience can clearly be a virtue, the attitude seems to a visitor more like a misty, delusory political dream these days in Caracas. Consider: Overall inflation is running at 36 percent, heading for 50 percent. Inflation of consumables - the stuff on which people subsist - is 50 percent, heading for 100 percent. Insecurity is the greatest concern of caraquenos as their city sports the highest murder rate - 132 per 100,000 inhabitants - in the world, with the majority of killings affecting the poor. Corruption is so rampant the average citizen must usually pay from 100 to 300 bolivares ($25 to $75) to renew the mandatory cedula identity card. Nonprivileged citizens express a weary, fear-ridden sense of what lies ahead. One man said, "The cost of food, when it is available, rises daily. We can't keep up. I fear for my family, and not just for their safety." The political opposition remains in dismal disarray. Aging politicians, remnants of Venezuela's nearly 50 years of democratic rule, stand for little else than a return to his/her share of the spoils that Mr. Chavez is hoarding to himself, his military, socialist and Cuban cohorts....Oscar Schemel, who heads strategic planning and polling firm Hinterlaces, is forming a representative group of opposition personalities to develop a common vision for Venezuela. The project, called Utopolis, is sorely needed to unify the opposition and also to provide average citizens with a common understanding of what their country can be. Hugo Chavez is a survivor. Despite megalomania, manic-depression requiring daily doses of lithium and a seemingly endless need to enrich himself and numberless cohorts, he has a powerful charisma, coupled with a sense of when to strike and when to stand down. "&amp;nbsp;Hugo Chavez succeeds as Rafael Correa succeeds [if this ruinous failed state status is success] by the seductive promise of Something for Nothing- the Faustian Bargain of one's soul, one's vote in return for state socialism/hand outs/give aways/ state welfare which always deadens the soul and ends liberty. The essential ingredient to the Andean dictators is the cowardice of the many that is gamed and manipulated and used by the evil of the few. The evil of the few depends on the cowardice of the many and this reliance on cowards has earned the public face of Correa and Chavez's support, which is of course as shallow as a political bribe. Nonetheless, the Correa-Chavez bloc of nations seems to be co-manipulating a mutually reinforcing banking cabal, also called bond market manipulations for dirty derivatives traders. Here is a beginning review: Ecuador's Correa May Burn Biggest Ally, Chavez, in Bond Default By Lester Pimentel and Daniel Cancel&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Nov. 17 (Bloomberg) -- Ecuador President Rafael Correa's looming default on $510 million of bonds may hurt his biggest ally, Venezuela President Hugo Chavez, more than anyone else. Ecuador, hamstrung by a tumble in oil, its biggest export, said last week it will use a 30-day grace period to decide whether to make a $30 million interest payment that came due Nov. 15. Chavez's government owns structured notes tied to Ecuador's bonds that would force Venezuela to pay $800 million if Correa doesn't make the payment, according to estimates by Barclays Capital Inc. Venezuela's potential losses may strain relations between two presidents who meet every three months and espouse the same socialist themes. During an Ecuador-Colombia border dispute in March, Chavez, 54, mobilized tank battalions in a show of support for Correa, 45. ``Chavez will have something to say'' about the debt payment, said Alejandro Grisanti, a fixed-income analyst at Barclays in New York. He ``will encourage Correa not to default.'' The price on Ecuador's 12 percent bonds maturing in 2012 plunged to 14 cents on the dollar on Nov. 14, sending yields over 100 percent, as investors braced for the first sovereign default since the global financial crisis deepened in September. Standard &amp; Poor's cut Ecuador's rating to CCC-, three levels above default, on Nov. 14, hours after Finance Minister Maria Elsa Viteri announced the government's plan to withhold the interest payment. `Truly Horrifying' Correa, an economist who earned his Ph.D. at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, has been threatening since the 2006 campaign to halt payments on debt he calls ``illegitimate.'' In his weekly radio address on Nov. 15, Correa called a debt auditing committee's preliminary report ``truly horrifying,'' echoing previous statements he's made that some of the obligations were fraudulent. He said he expects to receive a full report on the debt on Nov. 20. ``If there's a sufficient basis to say we can't pay this illegitimate debt, that's what we'll do,'' Correa said in his radio address, according to a statement posted on the government's Web site. ``That the bonds fall and the country risk rises doesn't hold the least interest for us. Here we'll act for the country and the common good.'' Ecuador's finances have come under strain as oil, which accounts for 60 percent of the country's exports, has plunged 61 percent from a record high in July to $57.60 a barrel. Largest Creditor Ecuador needs an oil price of $95 to cover all the spending in its budget and a price of $76 to avoid depleting its $6.3 billion of foreign reserves, according to Barclays. The South American country last defaulted less than a decade ago. It halted payments on $6.5 billion of bonds in 1999. The structured notes, so-called first-to-default baskets that are also tied to Argentine and Venezuelan debt, work like credit-default swaps, Grisanti said. Swaps, contracts conceived to protect bondholders against default, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should an issuer fail to adhere to its debt agreements. Venezuela would be forced to pay $800 million to investors who would hand over defaulted Ecuadorean bonds in return, according to Barclays. ``In the event of default, Chavez will be Correa's largest creditor,'' Grisanti wrote in a Nov. 14 report. Venezuela's position as a creditor would likely bolster the payout Ecuador would offer in a debt restructuring, he said. Argentine Default Concerns Barclays came up with the $800 million estimate from conversations with ``local sources,'' Grisanti said. Venezuela has pared its holdings of the notes over the past year, he said. A spokesman at the Venezuelan Finance Ministry declined to comment on the government's holdings of the notes. Investor concern has also mounted that Argentina will default for a second time this decade amid the global economic slump and rout in commodities. Argentina's benchmark 8.28 percent dollar bonds due in 2033 trade at 26 cents on the dollar, down from 67 cents two months earlier, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. Correa won a landslide victory in November 2006 after promising to rewrite the constitution and boost spending on the poor. He said in September that he'd suspend debt payments before trimming spending on education and health care. Ecuador's foreign debt totaled $10 billion as of September, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That equals less than 25 percent of its $44 billion annual gross domestic product. `Collapsing' Prices While the drop in oil has crimped revenue, Viteri said at the news conference that the government has the cash to make the $30 million payment on time. The price on the 2012 bonds, which were issued as part of a restructuring in 2000, sank 28 cents over two days from 42 cents on Nov. 12, according to JPMorgan. The bonds traded at 99.5 cents on Sept. 8, a week before the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the decline in oil. ``Bond prices are collapsing,'' said Igor Arsenin, an emerging-market strategist at Credit Suisse Group in New York. ``They are seriously considering defaulting.'' ___The death of Lehmans helped ppb of oil to fall? How can that be? ...
