Finally, I'm ready to progress!  (Damn WoW servers... making me post like this ;P)  I lived in California for the first three years of my life, roughly... My family lived in two separate houses in California.  I had developed a cough or a weak breathing habit or something incredibly similar.  My smoking parents were terribly concerned for me.  They were so concerned that my parents decided that to Oregon would be the best possible choice.  After all, the smog of California couldn't possibly be good for me.  So we packed up our shit and moved.  I don't remember the move, I was entirely too young.  I was about 3 years old, so the year was 1991, I believe that we moved in later in the year, i.e. very close to the winter.  I had just barely turned 3, or I was about to turn 3.  My dad had a job with the Security Pacific Bank... it was a rather nice bank, and my dad was able to transfer from California to a nice little place in the Salem, almost Keizer area.  However, my parents didn't bank with the place my dad worked... Bank of America had better props for them than did Security Pacific.  The bank had told them that it would be safer to travel with travelers checks, and that the rest of their money could be turned into a money-order that they could cash at a Bank of America location up in Oregon (I know, this all sounds very odd, but 17 or so years ago banks didn't have an account that was universal across all branches... my parents had to close out their California account so that way they could open up an account in Oregon XD).  Other crazy bull-shit included my dad flying up to Oregon, renting a U-Haul to bring it back down to California... then return the U-Haul back in Oregon... with the very delicate balance of gas prices, price per mileage, and outright renting cost... IT WAS ACTUALLY CHEAPER TO DO IT THAT WAY!!!!!  So we end up in Keizer, OR... and my parents go to open up a bank account using the money order from Bank of America... from a Bank of America TO a Bank of America... and the bitches don't honor it.  They say "nope, we don't have to honor that, and we won't... you'll have to find someone else to accept that money order.  My parents haven't banked with them since... I wasn't aware of what bank it was that did that until recently... when I opened up a Bank of America - Student Checking and a Savings account... my mom said, I quote "You're banking with that shitty-ass bank?!?  Yeah, I know, funny stuff XD  The rest, in the next history lesson.
