         It looks like maybe these Astrolocality Charts work pretty well although it would help to have knowledge of world politics and economies in order to do a decent prediction.  Personally I'm just worrying that the Italian and Japanese textiles designers will have to stop producing their beautiful yarns because although I can't really afford the stuff I really need to know that great beauty is being created at all times.  So, that's where me head is, Cloud 9 or maybe is it Cloud 12?  Anyway, my hair has gone almost completely gray over the last month and I've fried what's left with the curling iron because I keep waiting until I see smoke coming out of my head before taking the thing out.Well, I totally ignored China.  But the best News was from there as they have made up an Economic Stimulus package which should help the U.S. Economy by employing companies that do Infrastructure thingees.  Companies like GE and Caterpiller.  Jupiter is ruling Opening Bell Charts these days and is in the 1st House and the Jupiter DESC line was running straight through the center of China.  Venus and Pluto are in conjunction with the Ascendant right now.  In the Astrolocality Chart for yesterday's daily NYSE Market China is encased between the Venus Descendant line and the North Node DEsc line with Jupiter in the middle.  Descendant shows relationship with others. Other news was that Circuit City is declaring Bankruptcy.  I hate that company so all I have to say is HaHa, shoulda happened sooner.  I bought a laptop from that store and it broke after 13 days.  I took it back and they charged me a restocking fee and wouldn't give me a raincheck for getting a computer on another day when they had more in stock.  HaHaHa.  Go the Hell, Circuit City and all your mean little employees in the place where I live can go too.  I'm very sorry for the other employees who might have tried to be decent, honest people.The U.S. Auto Industry has withered and is center of attention.  GM is pretty much a goner because they got into the financial business. I guess Ford took out a couple of good loans back in the day and can stand up for a couple more years.  The Saturn-Uranus opposition is placed in the transportation houses, H3 &amp;amp; 9 of the Opening Bell Chart.  So, that makes sense.  Saturn and Uranus are also co-ruling the 2d House.  Uranus and the Moon are in the 3d House of the Opening Bell Chart and their lines enclose Michigan in the astrolocality chart.  Kind of interesting how this turns out.AIG, the big Insurance company conglomerate asked for and received more money, billions and billions of dollars to send their CEOs on more vacations.  I'd like to say that's like put good money after bad but it seems more like the country is pouring blood into this company at this point.  Photos of the CEOs at a company retreat dinner laughing their heads off while showing the photograph how to hold spoons on their noses will probably be in tomorrow's newspaper.  Neptune is conjunct Chiron and North Node in the 2d house (Banking, Money).  Neptune ruled Photos and surrealistic dreams that you wake up from 20 years later. This opposes the South Node (Screw ups) which is currently placed in the house of Insurance, Investing, Bankruptcy and Crisis.I didn't find out if London or Paris did anything significant to affect the NYSE.  That area was where the Saturn-Uranus-Venus-Pluto lines all converged.  That should be where the real power broking is going onLabels: Astrolocality, Finance, Opening Bell Charts           
