This is an open letter to our current President, President-Elect, Congressmen and Senators. It is also addressed to the Financial Services Committees of both Houses. While I understand the importance of our election that just took place along with all of the other pressing financial issues taking place due to the financial crisis that we have been experience over the last few months, I feel pressed to address one key issue facing Americans today that you might not be totally aware of taking place now. One of the side effects of our financial crisis has to do with credit cards, and specifically the issuers of those cards. Many Americans, including myself, are being severely effected by this crisis. Two consequences taking place are the sudden elimination or lowering of credit limits and raising of annual percentage rates on our cards. I can only speak for myself, but I have also read many accounts on the Internet and news publications regarding this specific issue. I also speak to you as an individual who has been in the banking and now mortgage lending arena for almost 38 years&amp;#8230;&amp;#8230;&amp;#8230;my point is that I come to you with experience. I have also been very fortunate to have an outstanding credit history with credit scores at the highest and most credit worthy levels. A few months prior to the meltdown, my mortgage lender lowered the limit on my Equity Line, sometimes referred to as a Heloc. My wife and I had taken out this loan originally to add to and update our home of 20 years. The lowering of our limit, while understandable due to market conditions, began a spiraling effect on our credit since the scoring models for credit don&amp;#8217;t look favorably when someone is at or near their limit. Shortly thereafter, Bank of America lowered the limit on our credit card from 15k to 5k which was our balance at the time. Since then, I have received one or two notices from other card issuers saying that they have raised my APR rate since they felt that I was more riskier due to information on my credit reports. I have no late payments, collections, charge-offs, bankruptcies, or public records such as judgements or liens. Trying to reason with the lenders and bureaus have proved futile with zero results. More recently, American Express has abruptly lowered limits on two accounts quite substantially to actual balances, citing again information on my credit reports. Since I am a lender, after running credit on myself, I saw that Ihad no issues other than the actions taken by the creditors cited above. I have also spent more than 12 hours by phone trying to resolve this with American Express. Each time, I am able to reach the first line of defense with customer service, but am told that a special unit handles this type of issue. I am also told that because of call volume that has lasted more than two weeks that hold times may be long. After literally 12 calls, I have been on hold for more than one hour while working at my home office desk. I run two small businesses here in San Diego, and this last change has almost put me out of business. Not one article or Internet column on this subject has addressed how a consumer can challenge the affect this is having on our credit scores. It is devastating, and is only getting worse. I am not alone in this issue, nor am I here to look for personal sympathy. Many in our nation are facing this same challenge. I also have several real estate loan clients who have had their home equity lines of credit frozen or canceled&amp;#8230;&amp;#8230;&amp;#8230;&amp;#8230;many with zero balances. One client has had their payment terms changed from what the original loan documents say when we initially closed their equity loan. I understand the current crisis. Yet for many who have had stellar credit before, this is drastically effecting their credit as well as mine since all bureaus have similar scoring models that they use to determine a credit score. I can only imagine the effect that these changes have had with people with lower scores or past credit issues. Wake up Washington !! Our crisis is and has gone past the subprime loan market to effect good past paying citizens. In the meantime, the banks and card issuing companies&amp;#8230;many banks or subsidiaries of them, are killing our credit out of fear. They are also taking your bailout handout, and not lending but instead buying other companies or paying bonuses. This is not getting America going again, but is rather creating an off-shoot of the crisis. If you were not aware of this latest issue, you are now ! Do something about it! You are our leaders that we elected. Please take care of the normal average American for a change before you dole out your next or further bailout to the big-boys on Wall Street or banking communities. Believe me, lenders are afraid to lend. Consequently, small business men and women are facing challenges because of this latest issue. My God speed you to quick action. 
