COLUMBUS, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nationwide Insurance, the country?s sixth-largest property and casualty insurance company, has claim representatives and agents actively assisting customers in response to the damages caused by Hurricane Ike. As of Tuesday afternoon, Nationwide has received more than 10,500 claims in Texas.?First and foremost, people have to take care of themselves and not put themselves in harm?s way trying to get back to their homes,? says John Raybuck Nationwide regional vice president. ?The safety of our customers and their families is our primary concern and I urge everyone to listen to their local authorities before returning home.?Nationwide strongly encourages customers to listen to the advice of local authorities and avoid flooded or treacherous areas. Policyholders with storm damage should call the Nationwide claims hotline at 1-800-421-3535 or contact their local agent.To assist with the claims process, Nationwide has set up two mobile units staffed with Nationwide call center personnel. The units are currently taking drive-in and walk-in claims from 7 a.m.-7 p.m. Locations are:Lowe's of W. Houston, TX 15555 FM529 Houston, TX 77095 Lowe's of E. Houston, TX 6161 E Sam Houston Parkway N Houston, TX 77049Nationwide also provided humanitarian relief to Ike victims in Houston. Teams brought in truckloads of much-needed ice, bottled water, diapers, baby formula, crackers, granola bars, soap, toilet paper, and bug spray.Nationwide, based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the world, with more than $161 billion in assets. Nationwide ranks 108th on the Fortune 500 list. The company provides a full range of insurance and financial services, including auto, homeowners, life, health, commercial insurance, administrative services, annuities, mutual funds, pensions and long-term savings plans. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com.Nationwide and the Nationwide Framework are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. On Your Side is a service mark of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company.
