 Comments (8) The fate of American General Finance will be known within four weeks at the most, according to an interview published Friday in The Wall Street Journal.In the interview, Edward Liddy, the new chief executive officer of American International Group, said he has 'at most a four-week time frame' to decide which of the company's assets should be sold. Those assets include American General Finance, an AIG subsidiary headquartered in Evansville.Liddy said a sale of some assets will be needed to allow AIG to pay back a loan of up to $85 billion offered by the federal government. He expects AIG will emerge from its current troubles as a smaller company. 'It'll be a lot more nimbler,' he told The Wall Street Journal. 'My game plan is not to liquidate.' At one time, AIG officials had said they would make an important announcement about the company's future on Sept. 25. Whether that schedule will be kept was unclear Friday. Calls to both AIG and American General Finance were not returned.In the interview, Liddy said he would like to keep much of AIG's insurance business intact, especially the part that deals in life, property and casualty insurance. American General Finance itself sells several lines of insurance.Much of it is credit insurance, which protects lenders from losses they would suffer if a borrower dies or is injured and can't pay off a loan. As of June 30, American General had $29 billion in assets, about $19.4 billion in real estate loans. In the first half of the year it collected $1.4 billion in revenues, most of it  $1.3 billion  coming from interest and other finance charges. Even so, the subsidiary lost $63 million during that time. American General Finance blamed its bad performance partly on new accounting rules  called Fair Value Measurements  adopted at the beginning of this year. Some observers are blame the rules for many of AIG's troubles. American General Finance employs 1,400 people in the Evansville area. AIG bought it in 2001. American General Finance is now in the midst of erecting a $35 million office building in the 600 block of Northwest Second Street.AIG announced the appointment of Liddy as chairman and CEO on Thursday. The announcement came just two days after the federal government offered AIG a loan of up to $85 billion to prevent the company from falling into bankruptcy. In 1995, while working as an executive at Sears Roebuck and Co., Liddy had overseen a separation of Allstate from Sears. 
