SYDNEY, Australia, BUSINESS WIRE -- Facilitate Digital Holdings Limited (ASX:FAC), a leading independent provider of digital marketing technology, today announced an agreement for provision of services to one of The Netherlands largest broadband cable providers, UPC. Part of the Liberty Global portfolio of companies, UPC Netherlands conducted a competitive evaluation prior to selecting Facilitate Digital's FacilitateOne platform to manage their digital marketing efforts across all channels, including online display advertising, search and affiliate marketing. 'We were looking for a technology solution that could provide detailed real-time visibility and reporting across all our digital marketing efforts, as well as a partner that would be flexible in providing solutions that meet our changing needs', said Antoine Brower, Director Web at UPC. 'After conducting an extensive review of all available solutions we concluded that FacilitateOne was the most comprehensive platform available. It will enable us to maximise our return on digital marketing investment and provide accountability across our marketing efforts. Facilitate Digital's hands-on approach in providing flexible, integrated solutions gives us confidence that we have a partner who can ensure we continue to lead the market with our marketing efforts.' Facilitate Digital's FacilitateOne is the only digital marketing platform that brings together cross-channel data from all marketing channels, including website analytics and provides a configurable reporting dashboard suite that puts all the key marketing metrics in the hands of the people who need it in real-time. By integrating data across channels and campaigns users of FacilitateOne are able to report and optimize their marketing efforts in real-time to maximise their return on investment. 'We're very excited about the partnership with UPC,' said Julian Baring, Senior Managing Director, Europe and UK. 'UPC is a significant investor in online marketing, with diverse and sophisticated requirements. A win of UPC's scale is particularly satisfying, as it presents clear evidence our technology is compelling, and we are able to compete successfully in large markets. We will be providing UPC with flexible, integrated solutions across all their marketing efforts so that they can fulfil the promise of digital marketing accountability. The flexibility we offer in providing technical solutions tailored to their needs, combined with hands-on service will underwrite a long and fruitful relationship.' Facilitate Digital Stuurmankade 276 1019 WD Amsterdam Telephone: +31 (0) 20 77 32 842 Fax: +31 (0) 20 89 07 935 E: infoNL@facilitatedigital.com About Facilitate Digital Facilitate Digital creates digital advertising and direct marketing solutions that emphasise simplicity, integration and flexibility for agencies, web publishers and marketers worldwide. We are the only global provider that offers a purpose built single platform solution across both marketing and business intelligence. Our clients include global agencies such as Universal McCann, Zenith Optimedia, Starcom, OMD and GroupM and; large-scale national and international advertisers including CBA, Foxtel, Hewlett Packard, NAB, Coca-cola, Nike, Armani, Billabong and Citibank. Our proven products and expertise in display advertising, search marketing, site analytics, agency workflow and lead generation empower clients to produce measurable results that increase their return on investment. With offices in Australia, Asia and Europe, Facilitate Digital works across cultures as well as digital marketing channels. For more information on the company's digital marketing solutions or the global office locations, please visit www.facilitatedigital.com For more information about UPC visit: www.upc.nl Contacts: C4 Media Group Tracy McCormack Australia: +61 (0) 2 9690 3908 North America: +1 604 512 8012 FDPR@c4mg.com Copyright Business Wire 2008. All Rights Reserved 
