 BUYINS.NET / www.squeezetrigger.com is monitoring Quest Diagnostics Inc (NYSE:DGX) in real time and just received an alert that is crossing above its primary SqueezeTrigger Price, the price that a short squeeze can start in any stock. There are 16678900 shares that have been shorted at the volume weighted average SqueezeTrigger Price of $57.156. To access SqueezeTrigger Prices ahead of potential short squeezes beginning, visit http://www.squeezetrigger.com. From January 2005 to August 2008, an aggregate amount of 196060479 shares of DGX have been shorted for a total dollar value of $11,175,447,303.00. The DGX SqueezeTrigger price of $57.156 is the volume weighted average price that all shorts are short in shares of DGX. There is still approximately $968,543,723.00 of potential short covering in shares of DGX. SqueezeTrigger.com has built a massive database that collects, analyzes and publishes a proprietary SqueezeTrigger Price for each stock that has been shorted. The data has then been integrated into an automated trading platform which can be used to connect to a live online broker and automate your trading of short squeeze events. It is extremely powerful with lightening fast execution at a very low price. Both the trading software and SqueezeTrigger data feed are available at http://www.squeezetrigger.com. Quest Diagnostics Inc (NYSE:DGX) Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is a provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, providing insights that enable physicians and other healthcare professionals to make decisions to improve health. The Company offers patients and physicians access to diagnostic laboratory services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers. It provides interpretive consultation through its medical and scientific staff. The Company provides esoteric testing, including gene-based testing and testing for drugs of abuse. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is also a provider of anatomic pathology services and testing for clinical trials and risk assessment services. The Company offers healthcare organizations and clinicians with information technology solutions that can improve patient care and medical practice. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company processed over 144 million requisitions for testing. Each requisition form accompanies a patient specimen, indicating the tests to be performed and the party to be billed for the tests. Customers include patients, physicians, hospitals, healthcare insurers, employers, governmental institutions and other commercial clinical laboratories. On November 1, 2005, the Company acquired LabOne, Inc. (LabOne). LabOne provides health screening and risk assessment services to life insurance companies, as well as clinical diagnostic testing services to healthcare providers and drugs-of-abuse testing to employers. LabOne operates major laboratories in Lenexa, Kansas, and Cincinnati, Ohio, as well a call center in Lee's Summit, Missouri, and provides paramedical examination services throughout the United States and Canada to serve the life insurance industry The Company operates a nationwide network of greater than 2000 patient service centers, principal laboratories located in more than 35 metropolitan areas throughout the United States, and approximately 150 smaller rapid response laboratories (including, in each case, facilities operated at its joint ventures). It provides full esoteric testing services, including gene-based testing, on both coasts through its Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute facilities, located in San Juan Capistrano, California, and Chantilly, Virginia. The Company also has laboratory facilities in Mexico City, Mexico, San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Heston, England. As of the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company's clinical laboratory testing business accounted for approximately 95% of its net revenues, with the balance derived from clinical trials testing, risk assessment services and other services and products. Laboratory testing includes routine testing and gene-based and esoteric testing, which generated approximately 78% and 17%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues. Clinical trials testing generated less than 3% of its net revenues and risk assessment services generated less than 1% of its net revenues. Quest Diagnostics derive approximately 2% of its net revenues from foreign operations. Routine Testing Routine tests measure various important bodily health parameters, such as the functions of the kidney, heart, liver, thyroid and other organs. Commonly ordered tests include blood cholesterol level tests; blood chemistries; complete blood cell counts; Pap tests; urinalyses; pregnancy and other prenatal tests, and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests. The Company performs routine testing through its network of major laboratories, rapid response laboratories and patient service centers. It also performs routine testing at the hospital laboratories that the Company manages. Major laboratories offer a full line of routine clinical tests. Rapid response laboratories are smaller facilities where the Company can perform an abbreviated group of routine tests for customers that require rapid turnaround times. Patient service centers are facilities where specimens are collected, and are located in or near a building used by medical professionals. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated operates around the clock. The SqueezeTrigger database of approximately 1 billion short sale transactions goes back to January 1, 2005 and calculates the exact price at which the Total Short Interest is short in each stock. This data was never before available prior to January 1, 2005 because the Self Regulatory Organizations (primary exchanges) guarded it aggressively. After the SEC passed Regulation SHO, exchanges were forced to allow data processors like SqueezeTrigger.com to access the data. Total Short Interest is the number of shares shorted but not yet covered, and is different from total short volume. To access SqueezeTrigger Prices ahead of potential short squeezes beginning, visit http://www.squeezetrigger.com About SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM WWW.SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM is a service designed to help bonafide shareholders of publicly traded US companies fight short selling. SqueezeTrigger.com has built a proprietary database that uses Threshold list feeds and short sale time and sale data from NASDAQ, AMEX and NYSE to generate detailed and useful information to combat the short selling problem. For the first time, actual trade by trade data is available to the public that shows the attempted size, actual size, price and average value of short sales in stocks that have been shorted. This information is valuable in determining the precise point at which short sellers go out-of-the-money and start losing on their short trades. SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM has built a massive database that collects, analyzes and publishes a proprietary SqueezeTrigger for each stock that has been shorted. The SqueezeTrigger database of nearly one billion short sale transactions goes back to January 1, 2005 and calculates the exact price at which the Total Short Interest is short in each stock. This data was never before available prior to January 1, 2005 because the Self Regulatory Organizations (primary exchanges) guarded it aggressively. After the SEC passed Regulation SHO, exchanges were forced to allow data processors like SqueezeTrigger.com to access the data. The SqueezeTrigger database collects individual short trade data on over 7,000 NYSE, AMEX and NASDAQ stocks and general short trade data on nearly 8,000 OTCBB and PINKSHEET stocks. Each month the database grows by approximately 50,000,000 short sale transactions and provides investors with the knowledge necessary to time when to buy and sell stocks with outstanding short positions. By tracking the size and price of each month's short transactions, SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM provides institutions, traders, analysts, journalists and individual investors the exact price point where short sellers start losing money and a short squeeze can begin. All material herein was prepared by SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM, based upon information believed to be reliable. The information contained herein is not guaranteed by SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM to be accurate, and should not be considered to be all-inclusive. The companies that are discussed in this opinion have not approved the statements made in this opinion. Occassionally companies pay $995.00 to purchase data for information provided in reports issued by BUYINS.NET, a company affiliated with SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM. The data service can be cancelled at any time. This opinion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. This material is for informational purposes only and should not be construed as an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM is not a licensed broker, broker dealer, market maker, investment banker, investment advisor, analyst or underwriter. Please consult a broker before purchasing or selling any securities viewed on or mentioned herein. SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM will not advise as to when it decides to sell and does not and will not offer any opinion as to when others should sell; each investor must make that decision based on his or her judgment of the market. SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM and SQUEEZETRIGGER are intended for use by stock market professionals. As a member, visitor, or user of any kind, you accept full responsibilities for your investment and trading actions. The contents of SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM, including but not limited to all implied or expressed views, opinions, teachings, data, graphs, opinions, or otherwise are not predictions, warranty, or endorsements of any kind. Please seek stock market advice from the proper securities professional, or investment advisor. By visiting SQUEEZETRIGGER.COM or using any data or services, you agree to assume full responsibility for the decisions or actions tha...
