This week, theChristian Fiction Blog Allianceis introducing The Real EnemyDavid C. Cook (March 2009)byKathy HermanABOUT THE AUTHOR:Suspense novelist Kathy Herman is very much at home in the Christian book industry, having worked five years on staff at the Christian Booksellers Association (CBA) in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and eleven years at Better Books Christian Center in Tyler, Texas, as product buyer/manager for the childrens department, and eventually as director of human resources.She has conducted numerous educational seminars on childrens books at CBA Conventions in the U.S. and Canada, served a preliminary judge for the Gold Medallion Book Awards of the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association, and worked as an independent product/marketing consultant to the CBA market.Since her first novel, Tested by Fire, debuted in 2001 as a CBA national bestseller, she's added thirteen more titles to her credit, including another bestseller, All Things Hidden.Kathy's husband Paul is her best friend and most ardent supporter and manages the LifeWay Christian Store in Tyler, Texas. They have three grown children, five adorable grandkids, a cat named Samanthaand an ongoing fascination with hummingbirds. They also enjoy world travel, deep sea fishing, stargazing, and bird watching and sometimes incorporate all these hobbies into one big adventure.ABOUT THE BOOKBrill Jessup just became the first female police chief in Sophie Trace, Tennessee, and is riding on the credentials of a stellar eighteen-year career on the Memphis police force. She may be a pro at finding clues, but she tends to ignore the obvious in her personal life. And she would rather work than deal with the bitterness she feels about her husband Kurt's infidelity. Kurt is weighed down by her unrelenting anger as he struggles to let God redeem the stupidest mistake he ever made. He is genuinely contrite and making every effort to show his commitment to Brill. But she hides behind her badge and her bitterness, deciding that moving her family away from Memphis is the only change she needs to make. So why can't Brill get over this anger?Before she ever has time to unpack her boxes, people start disappearing. Lots of them. Seven people in seven days. To complicate matters, a local legend has many residents believing that the cause is unearthlytied to the red shadows, or spirits of the departed Cherokee who once inhabited the land.While Brill draws on all of her experience and instinct to solve the case, she must confront an enemy that threatens everything she holds dearone that cannot be stopped with a badge and a gun. She is forced to confront the real enemy.If you would like to read the first chapter of The Real Enemy, go HEREMargie's comments: Last week I got started reading The Real Enemy and got through several chapters before life and work sidelined my reading for a few days. I've read several chapters, enough to know that this book will deliver another satisfying read. But beyond that, I'll have to wait to post a full review. Having read a couple other Kathy Herman books, I can recommend her books to anyone who loves suspense.
