During the first meeting of the G20, leaders of the world agreed on a plan to save the world economy, providing jobs for everybody in the world with a great health care plan, and one month paid vacation for every employee. And then every leader looked at each other and said: Aprils FoolThe British media reported that president Obama took with him 12 teleprompters for his 8-day trip abroad. Does it mean that Obama changes teleprompters more often than underwear? President Barack Obama is not taking a food taster with him to London. Apparently, even professional tasters dare not try British food.President Obamas delegation includes 200 Secret Service agents and a special task force, which focus on helping Obama avoid making fun of special kids.According to British tabloids, Michael Jackson is asking magician David Copperfield to help him with onstage stunts for Jacksons upcoming show. Apparently, Copperfield designed the biggest magic trick of all; to make Michael Jacksons face look normal. Organizers of a pub crawl in San Francisco said 200 people turned up to drink booze and model their Snuggies. Snuggies are very popular in San Francisco; they love the fact that Snuggies are opened in the back.George W. Bush will throw the first pitch on opening day for the Texas Rangers. Bush decided to invite AIG executives to the game so he can share the boosA dog in the Bronx has become one of the few animals in the world to receive a permanent prosthetic limb. I thought there was already a bitch in England with a prosthetic leg, I might be wrong Ford and General Motors are offering to cover car payments for those who are unemployed. So, the son of a gun of Rick Wagoner that just got fired, not only will get $20 million, but also he wont have to pay for his car!Ford and General Motors are offering to cover car payments for those who are unemployed. But what would you need your car for if you have no money to go out and no job to go to?A new study from the American College of Cardiology says that participating on a Triathlon pose an increase risk of sudden death. The shock your family members get when you break the news that a slob like you decided to get up from the couch and run can definitely kill them.Experts now say it's okay for kids to watch their parents fight because it teaches conflict resolution. We should encourage Rhiana and Chris Brown to have kids, because those kids will have enough knowledge to help fix the problem between Israel and Palestine.A dummy chained to a Boston Bank of America branchs door, forced police to shut down the surrounding area Tuesday morning. Apparently, the CEO wouldnt unchain himself until he got more money from the US government.
