What is this announcement about the emergence of an American covered bond market?  Is it an answer to the housing market&amp;#8217;s ills?  What is a covered bond in the first place? First, the announcement as reported in The Wall Street Journal (see here; rearranged for ease of use): Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., J.P. [...]      What is this announcement about the emergence of an American covered bond market?  Is it an answer to the housing market&amp;#8217;s ills?  What is a covered bond in the first place? First, the announcement as reported in The Wall Street Journal (see here; rearranged for ease of use): Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. and Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co. Monday unveiled plans to launch covered-bond programs and become leading issuers of the financial instruments, which date back to 18th-century Europe. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson speaks [sic] during a news conference on mortgage finance. &amp;#8220;We are at the early stages of what should be a promising path, where the nascent U.S. covered bond market can grow and provide a new source of mortgage financing,&amp;#8221; he said. &amp;#8220;We believe a robust U.S. covered-bond market would provide an additional stable and cost effective funding source for banks to originate and hold mortgages on their balance sheet,&amp;#8221; the four banks said in a joint statement. U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke have in recent months been touting the bonds as a way to help revive the nation&amp;#8217;s struggling housing market. OK.  So, the four largest banks in the country, at the Fed and Treasury&amp;#8217;s prodding, are all agreeing to start a covered bond market to try and revive the housing sector.  So what are covered bonds?  From Wikipedia (see here): Covered bonds are debt securities backed by cash flows from mortgages or public sector loans. They are similar in many ways to asset-backed securities created in securitization, but covered bond assets remain on the issuers consolidated balance sheet. [i.e., They are very similar to the securities that have been problematic in the past year but are less risky since the issuer is liable for handing out bad mortgages and they remain of the issuer's balance sheet] Essentially, a covered bond is a corporate bond with one important enhancement: recourse to a pool of assets that secures or &amp;#8220;covers&amp;#8221; the bond if the originator (usually a financial institution) becomes insolvent. [Again, much safer that securitization] This enhancement typically (although not always) results in the bonds&amp;#8217; being assigned AAA credit ratings. [I am not sure how this works - anyone?  Is it because they have the properties as collateral?  Why wouldn't the bonds be assigned ratings the same way as other corporate bonds?] From the New York Times (see here) and the Wall Street Journal [rearranged]: Covered bonds, issued by banks and secured by pools of assets like home loans, are widely used in Europe but have only become attractive in the United States since the segment of the mortgage securitization market driven by investment banks dried up last year amid a wave of home foreclosures. Unlike mortgage securities, which pass all the risk to investors, covered bonds collateralized with mortgages would continue to perform even if the mortgages backing them default  as long as the bank remains solvent. [And what happens if they don't remain solvent?  The bond holders get the assets.] Are covered bonds the answer to the housing crisis? In one way, covered bonds seem to spread risk more evenly since issuers would continue to be responsible for the losses even if the underlying mortgages default.  However, didn&amp;#8217;t banks get burned by mortgage securities as well?  Didn&amp;#8217;t banks loose money by holding the securities they issued?  The key difference between covered bonds and the previous batch of mortgage securities seems to be that covered securities have stricter guidelines for what can be included in the portfolio. Additionally, there is the fact that by making them bank debt, they are somewhat insulated from the underlying housing assets - arguably, making this more attractive.  As Felix Salmon wrote in &amp;#8220;What is a covered bond&amp;#8221; (see here), Now it&amp;#8217;s true that covered bonds are, technically, mortgage-backed. But all the mortgages could default and go into foreclosure tomorrow, and so long as the bank remains in operation, the covered bond will pay out as normal. Similarly, if the bank blows up for some non-mortgage-related reason, investors in the bond will still get paid back in full. Their main risk is that the bank blows up because the mortgages blow up, and they&amp;#8217;ll be left holding a bag of damaged loans - but because two things have to happen rather than just one, that risk is relatively low The WSJ article mentions that previous attempts at creating a covered bond market in the US failed.  However, this time the FDIC and the Fed are greasing the wheels.  From the WSJ: The Federal Reserve governor Kevin M. Warsh told the news conference the Fed was willing to consider highly rated, high-quality covered bonds as collateral for banks seeking emergency funds from the Fed. Nothing like having the Fed help you start a business&amp;#8230; One question is who is going to rate their bonds?  Moody&amp;#8217;s?  What will make this time different from the previous fiascos? Speaking with very little experience, here is my take.  As long as the regulations and guidelines for building covered bonds are conservative enough, I can see this market providing a boost to the housing market.  The covered bond market will help by providing more liquidity now that Government Sponsored Enterprises account for over 60% of all mortgages.  The private sector might just start getting back in the game.  However, housing prices have still not corrected.  Even if the covered bond market takes off, it still is unlikely to do much good until the market bottoms out and the economy starts to improve in 2009 or 2010.  It is more likely a boon for the banks themselves since they now will have another way of making and borrowing money.         
