Paul Muolo, who has written about the mortgage industry for 25 years, called me last year and asked me to write a book with him on how Wall Street changed the landscape of home lending and eventually lead America off a cliff. His vision was to write a comprehensive book, something similar to the New York [...] Paul Muolo, who has written about the mortgage industry for 25 years, called me last year and asked me to write a book with him on how Wall Street changed the landscape of home lending and eventually lead America off a cliff. His vision was to write a comprehensive book, something similar to the New York Times Bestseller he co-wrote on the collapse of savings and loans: Inside Job, the Looting of Americas Savings and Loans (McGraw-Hill). As we began working on the book, Countrywide Financial&amp;#8217;s situation deteriorated and Bank of America announced it would buy the ailing mortgage bank headed and founded by Angelo Mozilo. Muolo, who is editor of National Mortgage News, has known and had access to Mozilo for some 20 years and continued to interview him up until around January 2008, when Mozilo stopped talking to the press. We decided to make Mozilo the central character in the book, because Countrywide&amp;#8217;s rise to dominate home lending (and its rapid implosion) coincided perfectly with the expanding role of Wall Street, mortgage brokers, and mortgage banks, after the S&amp;amp;L industry shrank. My primary role with the book was to help tell the story of how a handful of men in Orange County came to dominate the process of making home loans to borrowers with a history of not paying their bills. I also contributed here and there to the book as needed. Over the next few weeks and months I plan to publish information on the book and its findings. For now, I am happy to announce John Wiley &amp;amp; Sons this month is releasing Chain of Blame: How Wall Street Caused the Mortgage and Credit Crisis.  Muolo discussed the book with NPR&amp;#8217;s Terry Gross on Fresh Air. CLICK HERE to listen. The Wall Street Journal just reviewed the book. CLICK HERE to read the review if you are a paid subscriber to the Journal. And to see the book on&amp;nbsp;Amazon.com, CLICK HERE . 
