  Fannie, Freddie `Insolvent' After Losses, Poole Says  Chances are increasing that the U.S. may need to bail out Fannie Mae and the smaller Freddie Mac, former St. Louis Federal Reserve President William Poole said in an interview. Freddie Mac owed $5.2 billion more than its assets were worth in the first quarter, making it insolvent under fair value accounting rules, he said. The fair value of Fannie Mae's assets fell 66 percent to $12.2 billion, data provided by the Washington-based company show, and may be negative next quarter, Poole said.  ``Congress ought to recognize that these firms are insolvent, that it is allowing these firms to continue to exist as bastions of privilege, financed by the taxpayer,'' Poole, 71, who left the Fed in March, said in the interview yesterday.    And IndyMac has basically halted operations, and Bank of America has lost $80 billion for their shareholders since bailing out Countrywide. The entire U.S. real estate market is basically walking dead, a zombie stumbling around on the power of taxpayer dollars.   Foreclosures Rose 53% in June, Bank Seizures Triple  Foreclosure activity is the highest since the Great Depression of the 1930s, said Rick Sharga, RealtyTrac's vice president of marketing. Home prices, which fell the most on record in April, according to the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller index of 20 U.S. metropolitan areas, have created a cycle where shrinking equity drives homeowners into foreclosure, which in turn further pushes down home prices, Sharga said.  ``We'll have 1 million bank-owned properties by the end of the year,'' Sharga said in an interview. ``That will represent between one-fourth and one-third of all home sales.''  About 53 percent of borrowers with subprime loans, those with poor or incomplete credit histories, will have negative equity in their homes at the end of the year, and the number will rise to 63 percent in 2009, New York-based analysts at Credit Suisse led by Rod Dubitsky said in an April 23 report.  About $3.5 trillion in homeowner equity has been wiped out since the spring of 2006, when housing prices were at their peak, Zandi said.    I wonder how many newspapers will publish articles like this concerning the loss of $3.5 trillion in a mere 2 years. My guess is: none. Because Democratic politicians&amp;mdash;including the Obama Christ&amp;mdash;were the ones with the closest ties to the real estate industry. A handful of politicians saved a couple of million on sweetheart deals, and the rest of us lose billions and trillions. That's not even good theft. If someone steals $100 from my wallet, I'm out $100, but that money still exists. If they swipe a piece of stereo gear, maybe it costs me $1000 to replace, and they only get 1/10th of the value when fencing it, but it still exists and someone's getting the utility of it. This... it's almost pure destruction, pure vandalism. They get a fraction of a penny for every $1,000 they steal.  It's time for a revolution, and I'm not talking about Ron Paul.
