   The cost two-year fixed rate mortgages has hit a record high in a decade, as major insurance providers of national origin and Woolwich raise their rates, forcing buyers to rethink loans to buy a house. Significant increases in money market rates, combined with increased activity competitor, has made it imperative to increase dramatically between mortgage rates many of the mortgages providers.As the credit crunch is the worst case, Nationwide Building Society has increased their mortgage rates of 0.5%, while fellow mortgage giant Woolwich, now owned by Barclays, implemented a price hike of their own, in addition to removing its entire two-year period fixed rate range, which is the most popular mortgage borrowers. As has become increasingly difficult to finance expenditure in the light of the persistence of the mortgage crunch, Woolwich have not seen another option that the implementation of this action, in order to control demand due to the fact that their rates have become much more competitive in today's economy. Lenders have recently witnessed a significant increase in the rates of exchange (which defines the cost of borrowing fixed rate funding in the money markets) to a new high of 6.49%, which has left them with no other choice but to raise the price of mortgages in general. The average two-year fixed rate now stands at 6.75%, which is the highest rate borrowers have experienced over the past ten years.The situation only seems destined to deteriorate further, with the lenders have to pay excessively high prices in order to obtain funds and a time lag of several weeks before this cost is increasingly transferred to mortgage customers. As one of the UK? S largest building societies, nationally noted with the accusing finger towards the significant increase in the cost of borrowing money in financial markets for the increased incidence also accused several of his competitors to raise rates mortgage and, therefore, the implementation of the recent developments in housing markets.The in rates remortgaging homes have also succumbed to skyrocketing prices and remain higher than those of first-time buyers. During this volatile period in consumer markets can expect to see frequent changes to mortgages to fixed rate across the industry a large number of lenders and building societies. Halifax, Abbey National and Bradford &amp; Bingley are also among those who have raised their mortgage rates in recent times, with Halifax, one of the UK? S largest mortgage lenders, relying only to offer better deals to monitor those able to reach at least 40% of its deposit. Therefore, it seems that those who will be most affected by changes in the market today can be for the first time buyers and young people buying homes, which may not be able to get enough money for a deposit to be eligible for any of the types which are still being offered by Britain? s mortgage lenders and suppliers.Source: http://www.articlesbase.com/mortgage-articles/mortgage-rates-on-the-rise-488789.html 
