we are lost in the forest.  really really lost.  I blame, Bush, I blame the neocons, I blame republicans,  because they are the ones who are supposed to understand what is capitalism, they are supposed to know what the difference is between communism socialism and capitalism.  The democrats are the inheritors of the legacy of FDR so I can't really blame them for not getting it, for not understanding why and how capitalism works, and how it doesn't.  Well I blame Jimmy Carter too, he planted the mustard seed of disaster for capitalism 30 years ago.Because of it, we are bailing out company after company, financials are gobbling each other up, the big three are going to get a bailout, there's a fight now in washington between those who want to save the car companies and they say stuff like "Do we save the companies where the employees take a shower before work and let those who take a shower after work go bankrupt?"And nobody knows what capitalism is, how it works, and most of all why it is broke.The most sincere difference between capitalism and socialism is the level of decision making.  In capitalism, there is every effort to bring the level of decision making to the lowest most local level.  So someone in Arizona makes a decision about what car to buy, and this filters up to the companies, it influences them, while someone in Michigan makes a different decision buys a different car and this creates all these difference forces.To promote capitalism we have to give the power of the market back to the consumer.  This means that local companies, regional markets, those are the ones which work the best, because they respond directly to local market forces.Large ginormous companies which product products which are then stuffed down the throats of consumers are the opposite of capitalism.  Companies which get so big that they need to be saved are the opposite of capitalism.  Companies which are indifferent to the needs of the customers are destined to fail.By the way, I think the big 3 should be making the Hummer, they should be making the Ford F-150 truck that's what the american consumer has wanted for the last decade or so.  The problem is not what the car companies are making but that they are so large and so stuffed with executives and managers and CEO's that they are unable to be nimble, unable to quickly change when the market changes.The financials, they are the equivalent of pure communism all of them.  What is venture capital after all but communism at the highest level?  You have these guys in suits in New York who make decision about what people in Wapakoneta will want to buy.  This is so wrong on so many levels.  Financials use their large size and leverage to control markets and use their weight to influence the direction of companies, the giant henge funds use their reserves of capital to decide which companies fail and which succeed, this is not capitalism!  Capitalism is where a guy in Toleda markets his products to people in his neighborhood, be it information technology or a pizza, and then if he makes a profit, he is rewarded, but venture capital, big financials and the big banks don't work this way, instead they stare at spreadsheets and make communist style politbeauro decisions about what will succeed and what will fail.Is it any wonder that they ate up all the toxic derivatives.  There is nothing organic or natural about the toxic derivatives, and thus they were perfectly suited to the big financials, who are not friends to capitalism.AIG, Bank of America, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley none of them are friends to capitalism.  GM, Ford, Chrysler, they could be friends to capitalism if they can downsize and survive.The problem with these gigantic companies is that at some point they are no longer responsive to local organic market forces.  When this happens, they no longer obey the rules of capitalism laid out in Adam Smith's book "The Wealth of Nations."I think what we are seeing is the death rattle of capitalism.  Companies are too powerful, and they have convinced the nation that big companies = capitalism, so that when we act to save companies from failing we are saving capitalism.If there's any single person that can be blamed for this, it has to be Jimmy Carter.  Remember, in 1979, Jimmy Carter bailed out Chrysler.  And it was a "success" the worst kind of success, because it has led to the mess we are in today.  I blame Jimmy Carter for this mess, and I blame republicans for not studying Adam Smith.  They have no idea what is going on, none of them do.You know the reason the markets are crashing is not necessarily because of bad fundamentals but because of uncertainty.  Nobody knows what will happen, who will be bailed out, it's all willy nilly and because nobody knows which way the government will jump, who gets bailed who who doesn't, nobody knows the ground rules anymore, of course the market will crash.  The market hates uncertainty even worse than it hates bankruptcy.Every day on CNBC Larry Kudlow says, "We need to reduce corporate taxes", as if corporate taxes are the reason for this mess.  If anything we need to increase corporate taxes, because these gigantic corporations which seemed to serve america so well in the 1950's are no longer a friend to the economic welfare of the middle class.For capitalism to work we need companies responsive to local organic market conditions.  That's what it all about, and that's the key difference between communism and capitalism.I don't believe by the way in any of the mandates where GM Chrysler and Ford are being forced to make hybrids and energy efficient cars.  Let them make big trucks and SUVs and the Hummer, that's what they are good at.  Let the Japanese make the little cars, that's what they are good at.Let the big three become niche players, let them shrink, and let them keep making big cars, americans do love their big cars, and higher gasoline prices won't stop that.
