There are those people who may read what I write about these things and realize I am not a fan of most of these bailouts, but for reasons that the media seems to fail to address. More importantly, the powers that be aren't addressing anything. I hear all this garbage about throwing money for loans, and there is legitemate concern about how these car makers are going to pay back all this money. The politicians are talking of dire disaster (as if that's not already happening or bound to regardless) if they don't do anything. They are completely ignoring the fundamentals of the car makers vanishing market. I was reading the other day that there is a growing inventory of imported vehicles from several car makers. It doesn't matter if it's the big 3, or a foreign car maker. They're all leasing more space at the ports to accomodate for the fact that it takes weeks instead of days to get rid of their inventory. It's still coming in. Nobody is buying. You can say all you want to about credit crunch and all this. The fact is that before that, people haven't been able to afford a new car for a while, and due to economic conditions and events, you have a lot of people with bad credit. Stuff happens, and it haunts you for years on end. If you're a lending institution, you may or may not have money to&amp;nbsp; lend for one. Secondly, the risk is now frowned upon because excessive risk has been what seems to be the trigger mechanism for this mess. Now, why is it that people aren't buying anything? Gee. Look at the price of a new vehicle, and look at what you get. The price of metals went through the roof because we sent everyones job to China and India. So they decided to build, and there is only so much steel and such to go around. Then we have a weak dollar that doesn't help matters. Therefore, there is just more cost for a car or truck to be made. That's all there is too it. I have told many people before, if I had to buy a vehicle today (even when I had a job and a paycheck), I'd have one hell of a time finding something. Why is that? Nobody makes anything worth a damn anymore, and the ones that do are most likely foreign and well out of the price range of the average person. Most of the vehicles my way are trucks. I feel out of place as I neither own nor need a truck. I don't have the need to haul some heavy equipment or something around, so I don't have use or desire for a truck. However, these things are rediculous in price. I never thought I would see the day when a pickup truck is $30K or $50K for some special edtion Ford F-150. I am not talking about anything special either. I think it's rediculous for a pickup truck to pay that kind of money. I remember before when you could get a truck nicely equipped for $20K out of the showroom. Now, for 20K, you're lucky if you get an underpowered sardine can that can't get out of it's own way. There is no longer a true drivers car anymore that the average person can afford. You can't get anything with any room, and you can forget about anything else. I don't think these car makers thought about that. They've lacked innovation, and now it's blame the unions, blame this and that. Now, here is something I can't understand for the life of me. I look around and see what there are for jobs. My way, in my immediate locale, there isn't much of a middle class. $10 an hour is called good money locally. The work conditions are poor, and it's heavy duty manual labor. You may not even get that much. Realistically, jobs my way pay $7-$8 an hour. If you want something better, you have to travel a further distance, and there is a cost of going to work. That pay doesn't cover the cost of living, and in some cases the cost of going to work isn't worth keeping the job. That's how it is though. If you're making that little money, there is no way in hell you're going to afford $30K for a vehicle. You can't even afford something better that's used for that. So then suddenly, people wonder why people aren't buying. When you gave all your money to Exxon, Shell, and all these other gas companies, what did you have left from your paycheck? Squat. What do you make? Squat. Now, the banks know that you can't afford anything. Therefore, they're not going to give you a loan that they know you can't payback-now at least. For what you can afford used, the banks won't finance as they know if the car is past a certain age, and you default, they can't recoupe. You're done for on that. The manufacturing sector my way never really recovered much after 9/11 and the onset of outsourcing. Everything here evolves around finance. Now, there is Wachovia who is down for the count aside from Wells Fargo. Bank of America is biting off more than it can chew, and dealing with it's own stuff. They're ready to lay off a load of people. The city of Charlotte is freaking scared. The entire economy evolves around finance my way. There is no manufacturing for the most part, and what is here pays poverty types of wages. You expect someone like that to buy a new car? With what? So go ahead, print some more currency like it's some myspace game where you get a windfall everytime you turn around, and everything happens. Don't do anything for the little guy to give them a chance to buy a new vehicle worth anything, and see how that works. It won't as nobody is fixing the consumers life economically, and therefore nobody is going to buy. Why can't these rocket scientists figure this out and watch the news?
