As I said before, I dont have any particular opinion about whether or not Congress should provide the big three auto makers with the bailout theyre asking for (although its hard to see why they wouldnt, since theyre throwing money at everyone else like drunken sailors in a titty bar). One thing I am very clear on, however, is that if the media dont stop covering the auto industry bailout story as if the financial industry bailout never happened, Im going to shoot the fucking television. And youre not off the hook, NPR! Ill shoot the radio too! Im particularly sick of the mindlessly repeated assertion that the auto company CEOs angered congress by arriving in Washington via corporate jets.  My political views generally point in the direction of pantsing the rich, and if I had my way, thered probably be no such thing as a corporate jet. Wed all be getting around on giant monorails anyway. But look: how stupid does Congress think we are? Really, these guys in DC must think were all a bunch of fucknut rubes. And since I dont see anyone carrying torches or pitchforks in the general direction of Washington, maybe we are. The CEOs of the big banks and financial services companies that are eating taxpayer money just as fast as congress can shovel it on their plates  they didnt come to Washington in corporate jets to ask for the seven hundred billion dollars Congress gave them. In fact, they didnt come to Washington at all! They already had so many politicians in their pockets, and so many Wall St. swells on the government side of the revolving door between the Treasury Department and Goldman Sachs, that they didnt even need to do anything so dclass or common as asking. Asking is for poor people! Their buddies in Congress and the administration did all the work for them, whipping up a fake crisis by telling us that if we didnt hand over the money right now western civilization would collapse and wed all be huddling around a burning trashcan by Christmas. But lets just step back for a second and imagine a world where the Wall Street guys are just a little less rich  not rich enough to actually own the government and treat the Treasury like their personal ATM machine. Lets imagine that Wall Street actually needed to ask Congress for their bailout money. Does anyone really think that the CEOs of Citibank and AIG would carpool to Capitol Hill in a hybrid subcompact? Give me a fucking break.   
