         Hi,  I was with Barclays and had had one of their student accounts / graduate accounts which I definitely was not paying for! I had a number of opaque bank charges for things like going over my overdraft once or twice so I started to think Barclays maybe were not very trustworthy, never-mind competitive.  I was seduced by A&amp;amp;L&amp;#039;s offer of a 10% ISA, to open a current account with them and that started one of the most stressful periods of my life.  They made a big deal about their amazing switching service but I can tell you that I have never been treated so appallingly by any other company in my life (perhaps the exception is BT!). Their incompetence was astounding. At one point everything (direct debits, rent etc) went out of my account twice! When I complained about this, they just stopped everything so the next month nobody was paid... They were rude, nobody took a hold of the problem, I was pushed around the company until eventually I reached the head of the complaints dept (I think, although it could have been anyone) who was aggressive / defensive. They blamed everything on Barclays even though Barclays could prove in writing that they had carried out their part of the process to the letter. They would send me letters which would arrive sometimes over a month after they were dated (which made me suspect they were backdated), and state that i was not responding quickly enough, so that it was my fault if things went wrong. I could not believe they would treat a new customer so badly and arrogantly and it made me very concerned about how they treat their existing customers.  Luckily I never actually closed my account with Barclays who, i since realise, may not be perfect but treat their customers with respect, are professional and reactive. My local bank manager even gave me his mobile number to contact (none of these branches have direct numbers nowadays!) &amp;amp; I can assure you that I am no millionaire.   I do not know if my experience with Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester was an anomally or normal, I expect others will add their experiences, but my advice would be to renegotiate your situation with barclays &amp;amp; do not move to A&amp;amp;L unless you really want months of stress and headaches, and to be treated like a nuisance.   I would suggest that if your account is continually in credit, Barclays offer a &amp;#039;sweeping service&amp;#039; which at the end of the month, moves this money automatically to a  savings account  (or perhaps an ISA?)  not sure of details.  I think the reason some so-called banks can offer eyecatching deals is because they make savings elsewhere, like on staff training.  Hope that helps, sorry for horror story but forewarned is fore-armed!                  
