4 hours 37 mins ago  (Reuters) - A newly empowered Democratic Congress will soon pass another fiscal stimulus package, while New York Fed President Timothy Geithner is President-elect Barack Obama's most likely choice to head Treasury, according to a Reuters poll. Skip related content  Following are the results of the survey, conducted Nov 5-6.  1. Will Congress likely agree a new fiscal stimulus  package, in addition to the $150 billion package largely  paid out this spring, to help boost the consumer sector  within the first six months of the Obama administration?  - All 49 said yes  2. If YES, which kind of stimulus would be the most helpful  (please choose a maximum of three)  - 25 said infrastructure repair  - 22 said new infrastructure  - 16 said tax rebate checks  - 19 said homeowner tax breaks  - 16 said employment incentives  - 12 said others*  (* Others included extended employment benefits, food  stamps, aid to local and state government, home  ownership, marginal rate cuts, foreclosures,  unemploymentinsurance extensions, mortgage  adjustment and refinancing)  3. Under the Obama administration, will Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben Bernanke likely be re-appointed for a  second term?  - 38 of 47 said Yes  - 9 of 47 said No  4. Under the Obama administration, who of the following  is likely to be picked as U.S. Treasury Secretary?  - 14 said former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers  - 5 said former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker  - 26 said Federal Reserve Bank of New York President Timothy Geithner  - 3 said New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine  5. Now that Obama has been elected president, how concerned  are you now about rising protectionist sentiment in the  U.S. over the next year?  - 10 of 48 said not concerned  - 32 of 48 said somewhat concerned  - 6 of 48 said very concerned  6. End-2008 median forecasts for stocks, Treasury bonds and housing:  - 22 forecasters gave a median of 1000 for the S&amp;amp;P 500  - 19 forecasters gave a median of 9500 for the Dow  Jones Industrial Average  - 31 forecasters gave a median of 3.80 percent for the  10-year-Treasury note yield  - 21 forecasters gave a median of 17.2 percent fall for  the S&amp;amp;P/Case Shiller House Price Index  Contributors to the poll: 4cast, Action Economics, AXA-IM, Bank of America, Bank of New York, Bank of Scotland Treasury, Barclays, BBVA, BMO, BTMU, Calyon, Cantor Fitzgerald, Capital Economics, CMC Markets, Commerzbank, Danske Bank, Desjardins, Fortis, FTN Financial, Helaba, HSBC, IDEAglobal, IFR Markets, ING Financial Markets, JPMorgan Pvt Client Services, Kellner Economic Advisors, Lloyds TSB, Mesirow Financial, Moody's Economy.com, Moody's Investor Service, Morgan Keegan, Mortgage Bankers Association, National Association of Realtors, Naroff Economic Advisors, Natixis, Nomura, Nordea, Oxford Economics, Peter Morici, Raymond James, Scotiabank, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, Standard Chartered, Stone &amp;amp; McCarthy, Swiss Re, TD Securities, UniCredit MIB, University of Central Florida, Wells Fargo  (Factbox compiled by Bangalore Polling Unit; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)  
