 jobs have been eliminated at some of the biggest financial institutions, including Citigroup, UBS and JPMorgan Chase, according to Bloomberg.  However, some firms may shed an additional 5 percent this year if the market doesn't right itself, predicts bank analyst Dick Bove at Ladenburg Thalmann.  Bove says that firms that have already reduced headcount in fits and starts this year, are bracing for another round of cuts if the next two months reveal more rockiness in the market.  Banks like Citi have slashed 22,000 jobs over the past four quarters, but are likely to make even deeper cuts in areas such as fixed-income, mergers and acquisitions, initial public offerings and trading, where volume in some cases has tumbled.  Last week, UBS axed 700 employees in the first phase of a plan to trim 2,000 jobs in banking.  While Citi and UBS, which originated much of the toxic securities on Wall Street, have been at the center of the market crisis, other healthier firms, namely Goldman and JPMorgan, also have been in job-cut mode.  JPMorgan plans on shuttering its global proprietary-trading arm, which uses the firm's capital to invest on its own behalf or to support client trades, according to people familiar with the plans.  The strategic move, which JPMorgan believes will help it operate more efficiently in the future, could be a prelude to more firm-wide cuts as the bank, which acquired Bear Stearns back in June, tries to reconcile lower revenues with the number of people it employs.  Goldman said that it will cut staff by about 10 percent - much deeper than its annual reduction of the bottom 5 percent performers.  Barclays, which acquired Lehman Brothers' North American operation out of bankruptcy for $1.75 billion, is presently in the process of sorting out its headcount and could lay off as many as 3,000 or more employees.  To be sure, firing workers in tough times is a delicate matter for most bank executives. Trim too much in a bad market and the firm might find itself paying through the nose to ramp up again when things improve.  
