Barclays obduracy costs shareholders 2bn. Thats the loss shareholders are suffering as a result of the boards decision to raise capital super-expensively from the Middle East rather than at home, according to a breakingviews analysis. The board has made a real hash of things. Barclays brass should bin the bonuses.   Top executives at the bank say they chose pricey Middle Eastern capital instead of UK state funds to avoid government meddling. Critics think that translates into bonus preservation for Varley, Diamond &amp;amp; Co. Theres an easy way to shut down that argument.   Lloyds/HBOS shareholders get hope on dividend.   The UK government still wont let the bank pay a dividend before repaying 4bn of preference shares. But the redemption premium on the prefs has been set low, so the bank could get dividends back by the end of 2009. That might ease the pain of 10bn of HBOS writedowns.   Commerz breaks German capital standoff.   The bank has finally agreed terms with the government with tough pay limits. It will tap the state for E8.2bn of capital and E15bn of guarantees. Others are in line for similar treatment. But Deutsche Bank is resisting taking the medicine which could leave it looking ill.   Feature: Financial shrinkage.   Finance has been a growth industry for decades. The current crisis could break the trend. Rejoice, says Edward Hadas.   TCI defeat over J-Power pulls the plug on an era.   The famously combative hedge fund has sold its 9.9% stake back to the Japanese electricity company for a $110m loss. Its attempt to export activism to Japan always looked ambitious. The ignominious retreat signals that the heady days of hedge fund aggression are over. Theres money to be made in credit clearing. At least thats what can be gleaned from the soaring stock of IntercontinentalExchange, which added some $1.6bn of market cap after buying Clearing Corp. The logistics of credit derivatives may sound boring. But investors apparently see it as a big growth opportunity.   Governments shouldnt push banks around.   Nicholas Sarkozy wants banks to increase lending. The French president is not alone. Governments everywhere are trying to tie public money with commitments to lend. The goal is worthy, since sudden credit withdrawal is a real risk. But so is government micromanaging. 
