Stocks turned south after a higher start, and by the closing bell the Dow Jones industrial average was down 73 points, or 0.8%, to 8,871. The S&amp;amp;P 500 lost 12 points, or 1.3%, to 919; while the Nasdaq fell 31 points, or 1.9%, to 1,617.  The Chinese government announced a massive stimulus package geared to turn around its slowing economic growth, and while the $585.5 billion plan certainly packs muscle and contributed to New York's morning rally, it appears unlikely to make an immediate impact on the global economic slowdown. (See ) Stateside, the morning's biggest story was a new loan arrangement for battered insurance firm American International Group (nyse: AIG - news - people ). The Federal Reserve is loosening the terms of its bailout, cutting the size of the initial $85.0 billion and easing the interest rate, but also providing additional borrowing avenues. Meanwhile, the Treasury Department is buying $40.0 billion in preferred shares from AIG under its . AIG's common stock had a strong start but then flattened out, up 8.1%near the close. (See ) General Motors (nyse: GM - news - people ) had a rough day, after the automaker said it will cut North American production in response to declining demand into 2009, and idle 5,500 hourly workers. Meanwhile, a Deutsche Bank analyst cut his rating on GM to sell, from hold, and dropped his price target to $0.00. The Detroit icon lost a quarter of its market value Monday, sliding 25.5%, while rival Ford Motor (nyse: F - news - people ) was down 5.0%.  With Friday's extension of the TARP to its first non-bank application -- AIG -- advocates for the auto industry are sure to renew calls for the Treasury to inject capital into GM and Ford. The government had been resistant to aiding a GM takeover of Chrysler in recent weeks, but that appeared to be due to the likely job cuts that would follow such a tie-up. On the other side of the coin, many observers are growing skeptical that the bailout plan's $700.0 billion price tag will prove high enough to foot the entire bill for the government's rescue efforts. (See )
