Philippine Daily Inquirer  Other Most Read Stories x  Business  Business Most Read RSS  MANILA, PhilippinesThe US-centered global financial crisis cost the Philippines $390 million in foreign hot money outflows in October, the largest foreign capital flight seen this year, as offshore investors worried about the worst credit crunch to hit the West in 80 years.  The capital flight in October brought the 10-month net outflow of foreign portfolio investments to $911.68 million, a sharp reversal of the $3.67 billion in net inflows in the same period last year, the central bank reported on Thursday.  Risk aversion further intensified given the global financial crisis and slowdown in the US and other major economies. This development has resulted in the withdrawal of investments out of emerging markets for investment in the US, primarily in Treasury securities, said Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco Jr.  Foreign portfolio investments, or money that offshore investors place in local stocks, bonds, money market instruments like Treasury bills and bank deposits, are referred to as hot money because of their volatile nature.  For the most part, the first 10 months of 2008 has been characterized by investor risk aversion arising from heightened worries about the state of the global economy following the US subprime mortgage crisis and the meltdown in major financial markets.  Gross capital outflows for the 10-month period totaled $8.5 billion, outpacing total inflows of $7.6 billion. These came from withdrawals of foreign investments from listed shares (39 percent of total outflows), government securities (23 percent) and money market instruments and peso bank deposits (a combined 38 percent).  The October hot money flight further widened the net outflows of September when the country saw its worst foreign capital flight since the US financial crisis erupted last year, with $312.2 million worth of net foreign portfolio investments flowing out of the Philippines.  The collapse in September of the iconic investment bank Lehman Brothers, the fire-sale of the equally storied Merrill Lynch and near-bankruptcy of insurance giant American International Group (AIG) brought global risk aversion to new heights.  Investor risk aversion, which started with the subprime mortgage crisis in the US, deepened because of the surge in commodity prices and concerns over the impact of the US financial crisis on other markets.  The capital flight in September reversed the net inflows recorded in the previous two months when the sharp decline in global oil prices initially revived appetite for local assets.  
