Insurer Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW), whose shares have been battered of late amid the deepening credit crunch, announced it will explore options for its U.S. mortgage-insurance business, including a spinoff.The company said two weeks ago it was comfortable with the unit's capital position, a stance Chairman and Chief Executive Michael D. Fraizer reiterated Tuesday. He noted the company is the only U.S. mortgage insurer with a AA rating and a possible spinoff should allow the business 'to achieve its full potential and to optimize shareholder value.'Genworth shares slumped 39% Monday amid the stock-market rout, and the stock was recently up 22% pre-market at $6.10. Through Monday, shares lost three- quarters of their value the past three weeks amid concern about the company's financial health in the wake of insurance giant American International Group Inc.'s (AIG) federal seizure.Genworth swung to a second-quarter loss because of investment losses and red ink at its mortgage-insurance unit. At the time, Chief Financial Officer Patrick B. Kelleher said the segment could see $50 million to $100 million in losses the rest of the year as housing prices continue to fall.Genworth and other mortgage insurers have been hurt by rising defaults amid an unprecedented decline in U.S. housing prices. Mortgage-insurance policies cover losses when borrowers default and lenders are unable to recover their losses.Meanwhile, the company said Tuesday it has reduced its commercial-paper borrowings to $79 million and has more than $800 million in cash and cash equivalents at the holding-company level. The operating companies have nearly $4 billion.-By Kevin Kingsbury, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2136; kevin.kingsbury@ dowjones.comClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=ssOOQJa0bVq17iQhEhuI6g%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.(END) Dow Jones Newswires 09-30-080906ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.
