www.navigatormd.com - Some of the nation's leading insurance brokers and third party administrators (TPAs) are adopting turnkey software offered by NavigatorMD, Inc. (www.navigatormd.com) based upon its proven ability to collect, integrate, and organize healthcare data to optimize value-based health plan designs. NavigatorMD's Design 180(TM) generates the information needed for initiating interventions that incent individual behavior changes, improve member health, increase workforce productivity, and lower healthcare cost trends. 'We developed our solution to promote more effective health plan modeling, empowering plans to align their investments with incentives that advance behavior modification,' says Ernest T. Youngblood, founder, president, and CEO of NavigatorMD. 'This approach is already generating results for benefits payers that are now empowered with information to reduce individual health risks and favorably impact health cost trends.' Youngblood recognized that traditional cost-shifting - without regard to health risk - was simply not effective in diminishing healthcare cost inflation. He points to NavigatorMD as a plan's best ally in not only controlling cost but also revitalizing employee productivity lost as a result of poor health. Installed and running in one month or less, this patent-pending software identifies the health risks and their causes, arming plans with information to introduce appropriate health practices and incentives for behavior modification. As a result, they can track member progress and calculate the return-on-investment for these interventions and wellness activities. 'NavigatorMD is a tool that we use to partner with our customers and brokers to attack the cost drivers through integrated analysis resulting in plan modifications to achieve not only savings, but also improved health in the workforce,' says Michou J. Reichelsdorfer, president, Prairie States Enterprises, Inc. Youngblood adds that companies must approach health and productivity in the same manner that they approach business productivity. 'Knowledge is power -- and if you can measure it, you can manage it,' he concludes. About NavigatorMD NavigatorMD collects, integrates, and organizes healthcare data for Value-Based Health Management(TM) and, using that data, provides the means to determine the best plan design to improve outcomes. NavigatorMD calculates the return on investment on the plan incentives and wellness activities of its plan members. Visit www.navigatormd.com. CPR Strategic Communications Rachael Fisher, 201-641-1911 x49 rfisher@cpronline.com 
