Sun Life Financial Inc. hastily approached Bank of Nova Scotia on Friday, hammering out a weekend deal to sell its stake in CI Financial Income Fund for $2.3-billion in cash, in order to jump on opportunities coming out of the credit crunch. Toronto-based Sun Life, which wants to beef up in the U.S. annuities and group insurance businesses, is looking at parts of American International Group Inc. as well as other opportunities.Manulife Financial, which is also kicking the tires at AIG and scouring for other deals, has attracted most of the attention, but this move telegraphs Sun Life's intention to go on the offensive too.Sun Life chief executive officer Don Stewart said in an interview that a 'fit with existing business is key.' More  Stories       Go to the  section  That means doing a transaction 'where we have existing management capability, existing customer [service] capability, a platform that we can extend and build and strengthen, as opposed to some brand new initiative.' Mr. Stewart pursued the weekend deal with Scotiabank because 'we think this is a time of incredible opportunity in global markets,' he said. By favourably affecting Sun Life's capital cushion, the deal gives the insurer more financial flexibility. 'Ownership of investment management companies doesn't actually count as capital in insurance companies, so this gives us a big war chest, enhanced fire power,' Mr. Stewart said. For Scotiabank, the deal is a chance to boost its wealth management business, which is one of its key priorities.CI Financial CEO Bill Holland, who first learned that his firm's major shareholder was selling its stake when he got a call from Mr. Stewart yesterday morning, said he can't blame Sun Life for its decision. 'They have been fabulous partners for 6 years, and the world has changed so profoundly over the last couple of months,' he said. 'If all of a sudden it's created an environment where there are better opportunities for them, then I understand that that makes some sense. And I think the opportunities that exist in the U.S. because of the credit crisis are, in my view, once-in-a-lifetime opportunities.' Sun Life recruited new talent to head its U.S. business a week ago, naming Jon Boscia, a former CEO of Lincoln National Corp., which operates Lincoln Financial, as president. Two other Lincoln executives joined Sun Life at the same time. U.S. life insurers saw their stocks take a major hit late last week after U.S. Senator Harry Reid said one of them was on the verge of bankruptcy, a statement he later retracted. That not only means it's less likely they would be able to pick up parts of AIG, which is in the process of selling a range of assets, it also presents new opportunities for Sun Life.Yesterday, Connecticut-based insurer Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. announced that Europe's largest insurer, Allianz SE, will buy $2.5-billion (U.S.) of its stock and debt.Other U.S. insurers, such as Lincoln and Principal Financial Group, could also be facing capital challenges, said Genuity Capital Markets analyst Mario Mendonca, who expects Sun Life to announce a transaction in the U.S. in the next 30 to 60 days. While the insurer's deal with Scotiabank was put together over the weekend, Mr. Stewart played down the idea that the insurer is already on the verge of announcing an acquisition.He said analysts want this to be 'a neat step of serial moves ... . It just doesn't work like that. We will apply the capital in a thoughtful manner and we've got several opportunities, so our issue is making sure that it goes to the best one.' Aside from operating divisions of AIG, Sun Life's opportunities include asset management businesses, insurance divisions of banks that need to raise capital, and parts of insurance companies that run into difficulty, said RBC Dominion Securities analyst Andr-Philippe Hardy. SUN LIFE (SLF)Close: $34.13, down $1.89BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (BNS)Close: $45, down $2.16 CI FINANCIAL (CIX.UN)Close: $16.20, down 44 
