- Nationwide Retirement Plans launches Nationwide Retirement Clear AdvantageSM, a retirement plan featuring a new generation of fee disclosure and institutional class mutual funds. The growing interest in greater retirement plan fee disclosure by government, plan sponsors and participants also is shared by a large number of investment professionals. More than 70 percent surveyed responded that they either prefer or would be open to a retirement plan with a more visible fee structure1. Clear Advantage provides plan sponsors with an up-front discussion on pricing, which allows each plan to track its true performance and make more informed decisions. Some of the new planClear AdvantageAbout Nationwide Financial Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. (NYSE: NFS), a publicly traded company based in Columbus, Ohio, provides a variety of financial services that help consumers invest2 and protect their long-term assets, and offers retirement plans and services through both public- and private-sector employers. ItNationwide, Nationwide Financial, the Nationwide Framemark and On Your Side are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. 1 Advisor Needs Assessment Research sponsored by Nationwide, May 2008. 2 Nationwide Investment Services Corporation, member NASD. In MI only: Nationwide Investment Svcs. Corporation. 3 Fortune Magazine, April 2007 'Nationwide ClearCreditsm is the amount by which the Nationwide Asset Fee is reduced for a particular fund. The ClearCredit is based upon the amount of payments Nationwide receives from the particular fund. It will change if the amount of payments Nationwide receives from a particular fund changes and is not applicable to every fund. [Nationwide, Nationwide Bank, Nationwide Financial, the Nationwide framemark, Nationwide Clear Advantage, Nationwide ClearCredit, Life Comes at You Fast and On Your Side are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. The Nationwide Group Retirement Series includes unregistered group fixed and variable annuities and trust programs. The unregistered group fixed and variable annuities are issued by Nationwide Life Insurance Company. Trust programs and trust services are offered by Nationwide Trust Company, FSB a division of Nationwide Bank. Nationwide Investment Services Corporation, member FINRA. In MI only: Nationwide Investment Svcs. Corporation. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and Affiliated Companies, Home Office: Columbus, OH 43215-2220. Can't find what you want? Try using Google:
