EAST WINDSOR, N.J., Oct. 24 /PRNewswire/ -- Palisades Safety and InsuranceManagement Corporation (Palisades) CEO and President, Ed Fernandez provided thekeynote speech at the 40th Annual Conferment of the New Jersey and Central NewJersey Chapters of the Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters Society (CPCU).The CPCU Society is a community of credentialed property and casualty insuranceprofessionals who promote excellence through ethical behavior and continuingeducation. The Society's more than 28,000 members hold the CPCU designation,which requires passing rigorous undergraduate- and graduate-level examinations,and agreeing to be bound by a strict code of professional ethics. Founded in1944, the CPCU Society's mission is to 'meet the career development needsof a diverse membership of professionals who have earned the CPCU designation,so that they may serve others in a competent and ethical manner.'The conferment which recognized 28 designees is a prestigious industry eventand was attended by approximately 160 insurance industry professionals. It washeld at the Holiday Inn Conference Center in East Windsor, NJ.During his speech to attendees, Mr. Fernandez acknowledged the financial crisisof 2008 and the staggering magnitude of the problem. 'The reality is somereally smart people and great financial institutions failed to fulfill theirobligations to multiple stakeholders,' said Fernandez.Mr. Fernandez spoke about the public's perception of insurance companies beinglow and that the recent bailout of AIG by the government fostered a publicimpression that 'all insurance companies are in trouble.' However,Mr. Fernandez also said, 'As long as a property and casualty company isproperly reserved and has a prudent portfolio, there is little chance offinancial or operational impairment.'He challenged the 28 new designees by saying, 'Each of us has theobligation and responsibility to lead during this time of crisis, to educatethe public on how the property and casualty industry is and is not affected bycurrent events.' Mr. Fernandez said, 'This crisis demands strongaction and leadership, rising now to the leadership expectations is somethingevery CPCU is obligated to do.'Mr. Fernandez has 32 years of property and casualty insurance industryexperience and joined Palisades as CEO in 2006. He received his CPCUdesignation in 1995.For more information on the Wall Street Crisis go to Palisades.com, News.About PalisadesPalisades is the nice New Jersey car insurance company that gives you more.Drivers and agents get more reasons to smile with more value, friendly NewJersey expertise, and service done right. Palisades sells exclusively throughover 300 independent agents and is a leader in the fast settlement of claims.Insurance is underwritten by Palisades Safety and Insurance Association,Palisades Insurance Company and Palisades Property and Casualty InsuranceCompany. Palisades Safety and Insurance Management Corporation is a PlymouthRock managed company. The Plymouth Rock Companies write and manage more than $1billion in personal and commercial auto and homeowner's insurance across the Northeast.Palisades Safety and Insurance Management CorporationCONTACT:  John Peppas, +1-908.219.5440, jpeppas@palisades.com
