 BINGHAM FARMS, Mich., Oct. 6 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- United Physicians P.C., Olympia Medical Services, Continuum Management Services, physician organizations representing more than 3,000 independent physicians practicing in Southeast Michigan, announced today plans to develop a Health Information Exchange, my1HIE(sm) (My One Health Information Exchange), to create a unique physician driven health information exchange. Through the utilization of technology, my1HIE(sm) will improve patient care and reduce costs by facilitating information sharing and physician access to e-technology within the healthcare community. Designed by physicians for physicians, my1HIE(sm) will allow physicians and other healthcare entities to send and receive vital patient information securely and enable providers to collaborate on patient care.'We are driving the healthcare adoption of technology through the most fundamental component in the delivery of care -- the physician,' said John Vismara, Vice President of United Physicians. 'This initiative allows us to make technology and information available to physicians and advances physician adoption. It is no secret that electronic tools, such as electronic prescribing, eliminate errors and improve patient care.' my1HIE(sm) will utilize the myWorkspace(sm) physician web portal to connect the community. Developed to be one stop for all your healthcare needs, myWorkspace(sm) provides access to multiple clinical applications like e-Prescribing, e-Documents, e-Labs, and HIPAA compliant communications and messaging through a single interface. It is accessible 24/7 from any location with an internet connection.'For the first time ever, Michigan physicians will have a single-point of access to all of the clinical and administrative information they need to do their jobs,' said Randall Bickle, DO, JD, CPE and President of Olympia Medical Services. 'This will have a monumental impact in improving how we deliver patient care.'my1HIE(sm) is scheduled to go live in November, 2008. About United Physicians, P.C. United Physicians, P.C. is an organization of more than 2,000 physicians, who have medical staff privileges at multiple medical centers throughout Southeastern Michigan. United Physicians serves the professional and economic interests of its members by negotiating and facilitating participation in healthcare plans, providing services that promote quality and efficiency in practice management, facilitating doctor credentialing with health plans, and offering health insurance products. United Physicians is one of only three organizations nationwide to earn certification in multiple categories by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA), an independent, non-profit organization that certifies physician organizations and accredits managed care organizations and preferred provider organizations. Visit www.updoctors.comSOURCE United Physicians, P.C.
