'Why can't you write some good news. Tell the readers that it's a buying opportunity,' said one broker, whose clients, like the rest of us, have had a good chunk of their net worth vaporize over the past few weeks.If only it was so simple -- a point recognized by the broker, whose comment was made more out of frustration than real conviction. Indeed over the past week this columnist has tried to make good news a priority. It didn't work.But rather than give up, we will make another attempt. (One thing is for sure: On Monday, the local market won't be any worse off than it was at the close of business yesterday.)The good news: Despite the credit crisis, some banks are entering into new credit facilities for their clients.Consider the recent news out of Waste Services Inc., a Nasdaqlisted company that traces its roots to Canada. It started here as Capital Environmental Resources in 1997 to take advantage of consolidation opportunities in the solid-waste services industry in secondary markets of Canada and the Northern United States. It ended up with operations in 14 markets in Canada. In time, the company migrated to the United States, while still maintaining its local operations.The company recently inked a new US$300-million credit facility in what amounted to the refinancing of its term loan and revolving credit facilities with a new dual-currency credit facility. The new five-year facility consists of a US$39.9-million term loan, a $132.1-million term loan and US$139.6-million in a dual-currency revolving credit line. Previously it had US$65-million in two revolving credit facilities and about US$231-million in term facilities. (That facility was to come due next April.) The new facility doesn't come cheap: The term loans and revolver bear interest at LIBOR plus 3.5% on U. S. borrowings and a comparable rate on Canadian borrowings. (On the former facility, the spread was LIBOR plus 2.25%.)The good thing: The company has got the cash--or access to the cash.And that's not a bad effort considering that the lead banker on its former facility was Lehman Bros., the parent that was declared bankrupt a few weeks back.Edwin D. Johnson, the company's executive vice-president and chief financial officer, said the company was prepared to close the new facility the week that Lehman declared bankruptcy. For that deal, Lehman and Banc of America were joint lead arrangers and joint book runners.That deal was revised after Barclays Capital bought Lehman's banking operations. 'We got the same terms. Nothing changed,' said Johnson, whose company added Banc of America to a lead role on the new facility. One reason is that B of A is a major lender to a number of the larger waste-management companies. 'The strategy from the beginning was to go to strong commercial banks only for our refinancing. And that strategy played out because they were the only banks that were lending,' Johnson said. But there is other good news: The company's Canadian business has turned out to be much more successful than anticipated. Indeed, the local operation has been very profitable, causing a tax problem for Waste Services. In contrast, the U. S. operation, where a good chunk of the former debt was domiciled, has lots of write-offs but no ability to use the resulting interest deductions. Now a substantial portion of the company's debt has been placed in Canada.
