(A. M. Best via COMTEX) -- AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Democracy, the late Baltimore Sun scribe H.L. Mencken once opined, is based on the 'naive delusion...that happiness is something to be got by taking it away from the other fellow.' And as leaders of American International Group are now learning, nowhere is the urge to smite the well-off more keenly focused than when those individuals are seen feeding at the public trough.So it is that an awards retreat for roughly 100 independent agents of the American General life insurance unit is now front-page news. Organized months in advance of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's $85 billion lending package to rescue AIG's flagging holding company from the brink of bankruptcy, the week-long conference at Southern California's St. Regis Resort Monarch Beach became Exhibit A at last week's House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearings on AIG's collapse and the subsequent bailout.In terms of scale, the $440,000 the company spent to fete its top life insurance producers is peanuts in comparison to the $50 billion in losses it had booked, through June, on subprime investments and write-downs of its credit default swaps. And far more significant issues about oversight, internal controls and public disclosures relating to AIG's Financial Products division, which wrote more than $500 billion in swaps, still have yet to be resolved.But in terms of perception, the $200,000 spent for rooms, the $150,000 for meals and the $23,000 for spa charges, all just a week after the company went to the government hat in hand, is a public relations disaster. Much like people remember Imelda Marcos' shoe collection more than any of the things her husband was accused of doing to the Filipino people, it is this event, and not the implosion that proceeded it, that is sticking with people.Just as importantly, it is sticking with public officials. White House spokeswoman Dana Perino called the sums 'despicable'; Sen. Barack Obama raised the issue during the Oct. 7 presidential debate; and high-profile figures like Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus and Rep. Paul Kanjorski are demanding the company pay back the money.Among the few willing to publicly defend the conference was AIG's primary domestic regulator, New York state Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo. Under questioning from Oversight Committee members outraged by the figures, Dinallo said, while the conference may have been inordinately extravagant, it is actually important for the company to retain the confidence of its employees and partners, or the bailout itself will fail.New chairman and chief executive, Ed Liddy, has attempted to explain the conference was mischaracterized as an 'executive retreat,' when only about 10 American General employees actually attended. Moreover, Liddy called for the immediate cancellation of 'all outside meetings, conferences, and recognition events across AIG, except those that are required by law or that are deemed absolutely critical to sustain our ongoing business needs.'Probably never before has an awards retreat for insurance agents been fodder for the presidential debates. But then, lots of things once unthinkable, either in the markets or on Capitol Hill, have become commonplace these days. As the line between Wall Street and Washington grows thinner by the day, the furor over AIG may serve as a signal to others across the financial services industry: Once public funds are on the line, their business, in all senses of that word, is now everyone else's business, too.(By R.J. Lehmann, Washington bureau manager: raymond.lehmann@ambest.com)For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 8. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
