Banks and lenders have now foreclosed on $100 billion worth of California homes over the past two years, and are foreclosing at the rate of 1,300 houses every business day, according to a new report from ForeclosureRadar.com. The report, covering... Banks and lenders have now foreclosed on $100 billion worth of California homes over the past two years, and are foreclosing at the rate of 1,300 houses every business day, according to a new report from ForeclosureRadar.com.  The report, covering foreclosure activity in California in July, notes that new mortgage defaults are declining, but foreclosures are continuing to rise sharply.&amp;nbsp; &amp;quot;It is clear that far fewer homeowners are finding a way out of foreclosure,&amp;quot; the company reports.  The pace of foreclosures in California -- 1,300 every business day -- has more than tripled from the year-ago rate of 415 per day, ForeclosureRadar estimates.  Overall, the level of foreclosures in the state increased 22.5% from June to July, ForeclosureRadar reported, while the level of defaults dropped by 4.6% in the same time period.&amp;nbsp; The vast majority of foreclosed homes are taken over by banks -- 96.6% in July, the company reported, although it noted that banks are increasingly offering discounts to investors in hopes of avoiding taking possession of foreclosed houses in the first place.  &amp;quot;Although the declines in Notices of Defaults seem promising, much of this can be explained by the actions of just one lender,&amp;quot; said Sean O'Toole, founder of ForeclosureRadar. &amp;quot;Ninety-one percent of the decline in Notices of Default since April can be attributed to Countrywide Financial. Unfortunately, this is more likely due to the challenges of integrating two companies the size of Countrywide Financial and Bank of America, than it is a fundamental shift in foreclosure activity.&amp;quot;  The federal housing rescue bill sets aside $4 billion for local governments to purchase foreclosed homes, but O'Toole says that amount is so small relative to the overall pool of foreclosed houses that it will have little economic impact. &amp;quot;$4 billion is kind of a meaningless sum,&amp;quot; O'Toole told CNN Money. &amp;quot;It can't possibly make a difference. You've brought a pistol to a nuclear war.&amp;quot;  Click below to read the entire news release from ForeclosureRadar on California foreclosures in July.  CALIFORNIA    FORECLOSURE SALES JUMP 22.5 PERCENT SInce June   Lenders take a record $12.55 Billion  in loans to foreclosure auction &amp;nbsp;   Discovery  Bay, CA, August12,  2008  ForeclosureRadar (www.foreclosureradar.com), the only website that tracks  every  California foreclosure with daily auction  updates; today issued its California Foreclosure Report for July 2007. Sales  at foreclosure auction jumped dramatically in July, increasing by more than $2  Billion in combined loan value to $12.55 Billion. This represents more than  1,300 properties being taken to auction per business day, up from 415 per day  one year ago. Notices of Default declined for the third straight month. The  total number of properties that are still actively scheduled for auction  increased to 64,598 at the end of July, up from 59,973 at the end of June, and  53,793 at the end of May. This indicates that further increases in foreclosure  sales are still likely near term, despite the declining number of  defaults.   &amp;nbsp; High-level findings  include: Notices of Default declined by 4.6  percent, to a total of 40,219 filings representing $17.71 Billion in loans.     Notices of Trustee Sale, which are  typically recorded 105 days after the Notice of Default, and which set the  auction date and time, increased 9.8% to 39,010 filings in July. Looking at this  number in comparison to Notices of Default, it is clear that far fewer  homeowners are finding a way out of foreclosure. At 97 percent of defaults,  Julys Notices of Trustee Sale filings are nearly double the 50 percent that  were more typical as recently as February.    Sales increased to a total of 28,795  properties with a combined loan balance of $12.55 Billion. Of those, 27,817  received no bid higher than the lenders opening bid and became bank owned  (REO).    Sales to 3rd parties at  auction continued to increase, and were up 28.7 percent from the prior month.  3rd parties purchased loans with a combined loan balance of $481  Million, at an average discount of 39 percent to the loan balance. Despite the  increase in sales to 3rd parties, lenders continue to take back 96.6  percent of all properties that went to auction, and have now taken back a total  of $100 Billion in loans since January 2007.  &amp;nbsp;   Although the declines  in Notices of Defaults seem promising, much of this can be explained by the  actions of just one lender, said Sean O'Toole, founder of ForeclosureRadar.  Ninety-one percent of the decline in Notices of Default since April can be  attributed to Countrywide Financial. Unfortunately, this is more likely due to  the challenges of integrating two companies the size of Countrywide Financial  and Bank of America, than it is a fundamental shift in foreclosure  activity.  Average discounts  offered by lenders from the outstanding loan balance at foreclosure auction  reached 45 percent in Merced and San Joaquin counties. Statewide discounts increased to 33  percent on average. San Francisco continued to see the smallest discounts at 18  percent on average.  &amp;nbsp;Of the 243,444 Notices  of Trustee Sale filed in the last year that have concluded the foreclosure  process, 85 percent resulted in the loss of the property at trustee sale. Only  15 percent averted foreclosure; and, of those, 30 percent have since had a new  foreclosure notice filed.  --Peter VilesPhoto Credit: Getty Images      
