 Walker Evans Fancy Gro. December 1935Coca-Cola shack in Alabama. Ilargi: Anyone with half a working neuron left knows by now that the vast majority of US goverment statistics are embellished hedonistic bogus. Still, when GDP numbers yesterday seemed positive, all sorts of stocks soared, the Dow in tow, and the first not neuron-hindered analysts oinked and bleated about the bottom and end of the credit crunch. One day later, the picture has made a U-turn.The useless GDP stats have found a fresh competitor in the little used GDI, or Gross Domestic Income. US personal income in July plunged 0.7%, or more than 8% on an annual basis, with disposable personal income -pay after taxes- down about twice as much. For a good hard knock-on-the-head stat, eat this one: in June. with a whoop-ti-doodling $149.9 billion boost from stimulus checks, disposable income was down $1.9%. Yes, thats over 20% annually. Consumer spending managed to gain an anemic (and disputable) 0.2%, undoubtedly because not everyone had managed to spent their entire $800 stimulus checks received in June. Theres only so much cheap Belgian beer one American can drink in a day.And this nation of empty pockets, a land today for three quarters inhabited by have-less and have-nots, is now called upon to step up to the plate and face the fastball of the  on-going, fast expanding and prohibitively expensive tragedy of corporate bail-outs.Its important to realize that were not talking about financial issues when it comes to the bail-outs, these are political decisions. Who can be sacrificed, and who will be saved? The answer depends on two things: potential losses in votes, and potential losses in campaign contributions.And the problem goes beyond tomorrow morning, there are long-term questions to address. If a corporation that is bailed out today, nevertheless folds in two years time, what will be the consequences? A new president doesnt want to start off in January by killing off the US car industry, but what then is the alternative? Ford and GM are no longer viable going concerns, and giving them $50 billion now will not change that. Hybrid cars will never gain enough market to bring them back to profits, and their ads about future hydrogen cars are nothing but ridiculous. For one thing: who will buy those vehicles? Nobody has any money, and no bank has anything to lend them.I have said before that the interval between presidencies (November '08- January '09) looks to be the only time to 'dump Detroit'. It would allow both the outgoing and incoming president to wash their hands clean, and say it didnt happen on their watch.To keep the US car industry going for another 4 years would certainly cost $100s of billions, and it would still be pearls before swine. And what if they fold anyway in two years? Who wants the blame for that?The same of course goes for Freddie and Fannie. For those still wearing party-hats after Freddie Mac sold $2 billion in short-term debt this week, heres a number for you: Fannie and Freddie need to find re-financing for $250 billion (out of a total $1.5 trillion) in existing debt. And that's just the tally for September. On top of that, theyll have to find new and additional capital. Much of the existing debt resides abroad, and appetite for it in Japan and China is gone; both stopped buying; instead, they are selling off the debt. The third large bail-out matter at hand is the FDIC, its member banks, and the customer deposits they hold. There is no question that the FDIC is dramatically underfunded, nor that hundreds of its member will go to that land in the sky where the dodo now lives. If there were to be a decision to slosh yet more $100s of billions past that receding event horizon, it would start to become a matter of taking peoples money out of their left pocket, and insert it back in the right (minus a fee, no doubt).Of course there are people who genuinely believe that sales of houses and automobiles will return to former levels, and once again support  vibrant car, building and lending industries. That is nothing but a long-shot though, certainly when we include the timing. Who knows, perhaps something positive will lift the markets by 2025, though its highly doubtful, since theres nothing in sight that could do it. Whats not in doubt is that until then, the economy will be on life-support, and most of the wealth that remains to date will vanish into anorexically thin air.One day people will start asking why they must be hungry and cold and sick and dying too young while their money, and their labor, and that of their children, props up failed businesses. And that is when all this will turn out to be a political issue. It's a matter of time. Are todays politicians willing to take a gamble on when that will be? And are you?US Incomes Tumbled, Spending Slowed in July Consumer spending slowed in July, suggesting the economy will weaken with the end of government stimulus payments, while a key inflation gauge crept higher. Personal consumption increased by 0.2% compared to the month before, the Commerce Department said Friday. June spending went up an unrevised 0.6%.Personal income decreased at a seasonally adjusted rate of 0.7% compared to the month before. Income rose an unrevised 0.1% during June. The drop was the biggest since 2.3% in August 2005. For July, economists had forecast a 0.4% decrease in personal income and a 0.2% climb in consumer spending.Consumer spending makes up about 70% of U.S. gross domestic product, reflecting a big part of the economy. Climbing prices helped elevate spending last month. In fact, when adjusted for inflation, spending in July fell 0.4%. Friday's data revealed a price index for personal consumption expenditures rose 0.6% in July compared to the prior month; it rose 0.7% in June.Compared with a year earlier, the PCE price index climbed 4.5% in July. The year-over-year climb in June was 4.0%. The PCE price index excluding food and energy, or core PCE, rose 0.3% a second month in a row during July. Year over year, it climbed 2.4% in July, after increasing 2.3% in June.The Federal Reserve watches the year-over-year PCE price index excluding food and energy closely for signs of problematic inflation. Fed officials define their statutory goal of price stability as inflation of 1.5% to 2%.The income report showed private wage and salary disbursements increased $13.2 billion in July, compared with an increase of $7.9 billion in June. Government economic stimulus payments boosted the level of personal current transfer receipts by a mere $4.2 billion, at an annual rate, in July. The payments gave much larger boosts of $149.9 billion in June and $179.6 billion in May. The stimulus payments started going out in the end of April and lasted until about the middle of July.The Commerce Department reported Thursday that gross domestic product surged 3.3% in the second quarter. Analysts, however, see growth fading in the second half of 2008, partly due to the end of the stimulus payments approved by Congress and the White House.July disposable personal income -- income after taxes -- fell by 1.1%, after dropping 1.9% in June. Spending on durable goods, those designed to last three years or longer, tumbled 1.5% in July, after dropping in June by 1.3%. Non-durable goods spending increased 0.3% in July, after rising by 1.5% the month before. Spending on services went 0.5% higher in July.The Commerce Department reported personal saving as a percentage of disposable personal income was 1.2% in July. It was 2.5% in June.July incomes drop by largest amount in 3 years Personal incomes plunged in July while consumer spending slowed significantly as the impact of billions of dollars in government rebate checks began to wane. The Commerce Department reported Friday that personal incomes fell by 0.7 percent in July, the biggest drop in nearly three years and a far larger decline than the 0.1 percent decrease analysts expected.Consumer spending edged up a modest 0.2 percent, in line with expectations, but far below June's 0.6 percent rise. When the impact of rising prices was factored in, spending actually dropped by 0.4 percent in July, the weakest showing for inflation-adjusted spending in more than four years. The July performance for incomes and spending reinforced worries that the economy, which posted better-than-expected growth in the spring because of the rebate checks, could stumble in coming months as their impact fades. Some economists worry that overall economic growth, which rose at a 3.3 percent annual rate from April-June, could come in at less than half that pace in the current quarter, and could actually dip into negative territory in the final three months of this year and the first quarter of 2009.Back-to-back declines in the gross domestic product, which measures the value of all goods and services produced within the U.S. and is the best barometer of the country's economic health, would meet one rule of thumb for a recession. A gauge of inflation closely watched by the Federal Reserve remained elevated in July, rising by 0.6 percent. Over the past 12 months, this inflation gauge tied to consumer spending was up 4.5 percent, the biggest year-over-year increase in more than 17 years.The surge reflected the big increases that have occurred this year in food and energy costs. Excluding food and energy, inflation by this measure was up 0.3 percent in July, and 2.4 percent over the past 12 months, still above the Fed's comfort zone. The central bank is caught in a bind between a sluggish economy and rising inflation pressures.The 0.7 percent drop in personal incomes followed a 0.1 percent rise in June and a 1.8 percent surge in May. After-tax incomes dropped by an even bigger 1.1 percent in July, following a 1.9 percent decline in June and a 5.7 percent surge in May. All the income figures were heavily influenced by the rebate checks.Democrats, including presidential nominee Barack Obam...
