 it takes patience, discipline and courage to follow the contrarian route to investment success. To buy when others are despondently selling, to sell when others are avidly buying ...Sir John TempletonSince the middle of last year financial shares  banks in particular  have been under acute selling pressure. In the case of the United States (US) market, for instance, the Standard and Poors 500 (S&amp;amp;P 500) Bank Index has shed half its value since the middle of 2007, with much of the pressure concentrated in the last three months. Falling house prices, distressed borrowers and weakened consumers have been at the heart of this decline. Further, as noted by Schroders chief economist, Keith Wade and his team of strategists, whilst the key lending rate in the US has fallen smartly over the past year, and lending rates in the United Kingdom (UK) and Europe have remained largely static, today we have mortgage rates which are well in excess of house price inflation in these markets. This is an indication that borrowing and the housing market are likely to remain weak in the immediate future. In support of this argument, recent data show that the S&amp;amp;P Case Shiller house price index fell 15 percent year-on-year to May. In turn, the scenario of high positive real interest rates in the housing market implies that people form expectations about house prices in a backward-looking way  taking the current price movement as the best guess of the future. As Wade notes, such auto regressive behaviour suggests that individuals are not forward looking and have difficulty recognising value when it finally emerges. This behavioural pattern is widespread  best evidenced by long booms and busts in various markets, including the housing market and, more recently, financial shares which have gulped down water whilst commodity shares (and energy shares in particular) have swum away (see the figure below). Source: Data from Reuters However, length momentum markets establish vast divides between price and value, thereby creating superb investment opportunities. Indeed, the extreme pessimism surrounding bank shares in the wake of the housing market fallout has created a once-in-a-generation opportunity for investors. Negativity about banks prospects is extreme. Consequently, bank shares are dirt cheap. But, exposure to the sector is not for the weak hearted or for those with portfolio horizons that are measured in weeks or months. Yet, as top-rated US bank analyst Thomas K. Brown notes in a recent article, if you understand what drives share prices, and have an investment time horizon of at least one year (which is admittedly short as far as investment horizons go), read on. If you are a patient value investor, get out your highlighter and get ready to buy bank shares.Investors in financial shares have had a lot to deal with recently. Apart from watching energy and commodity shares surge higher since the middle of 2007 as part of a longer wave(see the figure below), in recent weeks financial shares have been pummeled by bad news. For instance, in the past two weeks these shares have been faced by news that US regulators closed IndyMac Bank (which had USD32bn in assets) in the second week of July, and that last week First National Bank of Nevada and its affiliate, First Heritage Bank of Newport Beach, California, had failed and would be acquired by Mutual of Omaha Bank. However, this news pales into insignificance when read against the backdrop that US government-sponsored mortgage company Fannie Mae requires bailing out and that Freddie Mac, the smaller brother business, is technically insolvent, owing USD5.2 billion more than its assets are worth.Source: Data from ReutersAnd there was even more bad news for investors. In the past two weeks General Motors, the world's largest automaker as measured by global industry sales, suspended its dividend; US retail sales for June came in lower than expected; the US dollar hit a record low against the euro; Junes US producer price inflation came in higher than expected; popular bear, Meredith Whitney of Oppenheimer Securities, lowered her rating on Wachovia, the fourth largest banking chain in the US, citing the companys bleak prospects; Bloomberg ran a story reporting that private equity investor TPG had seen its spring investment in Washington Mutual cut by two-thirds; and Bill Ackman, a CNBC favourite, spoke about his plan to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (despite having recently admitted that he had shorted the shares). Finally, by end July, earnings per share reported by companies making up the S&amp;amp;P500 had showed an average decrease of 24 percent. However, if financial shares are stripped from the calculation, the earnings change prints as a nine percent increase  a material difference by any standard. Detail aside, in sum, the news flow has done little other than incite the flames of fear already raging through fragile financial shares.Evidence of the extent of the above-mentioned fragility is readily at hand. In one day in the middle of July, Citigroup*, the largest financial company in the world, lost 15 percent of its market capitalisation, a sum equal to about USD15bn. Wachovia, the subject of Whitneys above-mentioned downgrade, was off by 20 percent on the same day. The CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, a popular measure of investor nervousness, reached 30.82, where a reading above 30 is considered a panic signal; and XLF, the US-listed financial sector tracker, showed trade of 469mn shares on 15 July, eclipsing its previous one-day volume record, set the prior Friday, by 150 million shares. In turn, this record fell two days later when 528mn shares traded. If this is the financial sector backdrop, the question is then begged: How on earth can bank shares be considered attractive? A number of reasons can found for patient, deep value investors to start piling into bank shares.First, the depressed mood in the market described above has promoted the unrealistic expectation that these conditions will persist indefinitely into the future. Bearish momentum investors continue to pile on their shorts, whilst rational analysis about companies long-term prospects has given way to the simplistic notion that banks will write off ever-higher amounts of capital, that profit recovery is a long way off and that long-term earnings potential has been permanently damaged. As Brown notes, to support this theme, bearish analysts have devised new methods to justify current (or lower) share prices for banks and other financial shares. We see this type of analyst error regularly, but the best recent example comes from the late 1990s when analysts of technology shares rolled out new valuation methods to justify sky-high share prices at the peak of the Nasdaq (do you remember eyeballs per screen?).In similar fashion, Brown notes that bearish financial services analysts have developed new methods to value financial shares to avoid recommending them in the current environment. One analyst, for example, estimates a banks entire future losses, deducts that number from tangible book value, and then assumes the bank raises additional capital at current (highly dilutive) prices. The method then goes on to assume that the share should trade at or below the pro forma adjusted tangible book value. No wonder throwing money down a hole sounds like a smarter option. Clearly, the motive behind the method is to produce a valuation for the share that is as low as possible, regardless of the sensibility behind the method, to justify the bearish call on the share. Conservative analysis and poor analysis should not be confused. Second, when the market ridicules common sense, it is worth sitting up and taking notice. Brown reminds us that, during the tech boom, great investors such as Warren Buffett, George Vanderheiden, and Julian Robertson were seen as dinosaurs because they refused to participate in the mania. A decade on, the legendary Bill Miller, Marty Whitman, Wally Weitz, and others are being criticised for their refusal to short the financials, and ridiculed for owning them. Amongst the new media darlings is Bill Ackman, whose record, perhaps, is best described as average. Yet (or perhaps because of this record), he shorted Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac shares a few days before he called CNBC to tell them he has a plan to save the companies, which (coincidentally) involves a complete wipeout of common shareholders. To go from absurd to ridiculous, he has been taken seriously, without a single person who interviewed him on the day of his announcement questioning his true motivation.Third, there is widespread fear about dividend cuts and that the capital that has been raised recently is excessive and, for this reason, unnecessarily dilutive. To the contrary, some of the bank results that have printed in the current series of earnings announcements are providing signs that the credit problems will not turn out to be as great as widely feared, that not as much dilutive capital will need to be raised and that fewer companies will have to cut their dividends. For example, one of the USs largest banks, Bank of America*, recently produced better-than-expected second quarter earnings (72 cents versus a consensus 48 cents). Despite the big bounce that we have seen in the price since then, the share still provides a dividend yield of 7.9 percent, or three times the current two-year US Treasury yield. Elsewhere, some of the commercial banks that have reported second quarter earnings have provided evidence of improving credit quality (including changes in delinquency rates, a slowing inflow of new non-accruing loans and a lack of meaningful increases in questionable assets). Also, as Brown notes, from history we know that high-quality banks are quick to write down non-performing loans and aggressive in building reserves.This backdrop offers ample evidence that the market is being driven by sentiment, and ...
