       A new record loss for Wachovia Bank! Topping their US$9 Billion dollar loss in... gasp!... the Second Quarter! US$110 Million gone in just one revision, two months out. Pesky revisions.I wonder why anyone would still have their money with Wachovia Bank at this point. Their Death Bell was rung back in May. It was rung a second time just last month. A third time will not be a charm. via ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - Wachovia Corp increased its previously reported second-quarter loss to $9.11 billion to cover costs to settle a probe of auction-rate securities sales, and said it will cut more jobs as the housing market deteriorates.The fourth-largest U.S. bank is now reporting a loss of $4.31 per share, up from the $8.86 billion, or $4.20 a share, it reported on July 22, according to its quarterly report filed on Monday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.Wachovia also now plans to cut 6,950 jobs, 600 more than it had disclosed, with the additional cuts coming from mortgage operations, spokeswoman Christy Phillips-Brown said. The cuts affect about 5.8 percent of Wachovia's 120,000-person workforce. Wachovia also is also eliminating 4,400 open positions.Separately, Wachovia said the SEC may recommend civil charges against its main banking unit in connection with municipal derivatives transactions. It also said various state attorneys general have issued subpoenas over that matter. The bank said it was cooperating with the probes. Bank of America Corp reported receiving its own subpoenas last week.The quarter marks the second in a row when Charlotte, North Carolina-based Wachovia revised results to increase the size of its reported loss. Wachovia increased its first-quarter loss to $708 million from an original $393 million because of a write-down tied to life insurance policies.Auction-rate debt has interest rates that reset through periodic auctions, typically held every seven, 28 or 35 days. Once thought safe, much of the market has been frozen since brokerages in February stopped supporting the debt.Wachovia said it added $500 million to legal reserves to cover a possible settlement. It is in talks with regulators to resolve matters related to auction-rate debt, after regulatory settlements last week by Citigroup Inc and UBS AG. Missouri is leading the multi-state probe. Wachovia's brokerage unit, Wachovia Securities, is based in St. Louis.The bank has been among the lenders hardest hit by the U.S. housing crisis, following its $24.2 billion purchase of California mortgage specialist Golden West Financial Corp in October 2006, just as the mortgage market was peaking.Wachovia is dying. Get out while you still can.US$3.00+ ATM charges should be a good clue that Wachovia is desperate for funds.7,000 jobs cut and 4,400 cut positions for hire... 11,000 people not working because of one Bank's malfeasance. That's worth thinking about.To Top Of Main PageLabels: Bank Failures, Collapse, Real Estate Crash, Wachovia Bank          
