 Louise Rosskam What do YOU say America? 1942Shulman's Market at N and Union Street SW, Washington. Posters of Axis leaders Mussolini, Hitler and Admiral Yamamoto in the window. Along the bottom of each it says What do YOU say America? Ilargi: This will turn out to be one of the most expensive weekends in world history. But dont worry too much about it; your children will pick up most of the tab.We are witnessing an unprecedented increase of dirty fat and sticky fingers grabbing at the public trough. Since we long ago gave away control over the trough to those same fat fingers, we are now powerless to protect the safety of our childrens futures. So we might as well watch the Olympics. Bread and games work miracles, always have.100 bank failures in the next year? Easily, and thats the bare minimum. $850 billion at risk, for which the FDIC has less than $50 billlion in protection funds. If 10% is lost, the alleged deposit insurance is a laughing stock. In the far more likely case that the loss is 20 or 25%, there will be no laughing. If more than 100 banks fail, which is also the far more likely case, theres no telling what will happen. The one sure thing is that it will be very ugly.GM and Ford want $50 billion "to develop fuel-efficient cars". We recognize this as a nonsensical driveling lie, since we know that the $25 billion already allocated to the two will barely be enough to cover their losses in just one, the last, quarter. The Jackson Black Hole conference is being used, as we speak, to hand out taxpayers money from all over the rich world. You pay my patsy, Ill pay yours. It's madness to claim that Fannie and Freddie, or GM and Ford, or Merrill and Citigroup, could still be saved. But then, that's not the goal here, is it?We all see this happen, we watch the headlines getting darker, fast, we notice the mood changing from cheerleading to last rites. But how many of us have our eyes still on the ball? How many, when letting all this darkness sink in, truly understand what really goes on? Have you given any thought lately to how profitable a crisis can be? If its your big fat digits that hold the trough, theres much more money to be made in a crisis than in a stable situation. So you create one.Lehman's clock is ticking Lehman Brothers' latest march toward the once-unthinkable price of $10 a share was interrupted when a Korean bank expressed interest Friday in the struggling brokerage firm. The question now is whether CEO Dick Fuld is willing to reciprocate.A spokesman at the Korea Development Bank in Seoul said Friday that the state-run firm "is considering all kinds of options [with respect to] Lehman Brothers," including an outright purchase. The news sent Lehman's stock, which has lost three-quarters of its value this year as investors worry about potential losses on the firm's big mortgage portfolio, up more than $2, to $15.93 a share in heavy trading. The shares closed up 69 cents at $14.41.A Lehman spokesman declined comment on the story. But the market was upbeat because Fuld - after weeks scouring the globe for a strategic investor and getting rebuffed at every turn - now has a chance to do a deal that will put the firm on stronger footing. One high-profile analyst says the clock is ticking. Richard Bove, of Ladenburg Thalmann, told Bloomberg TV on Friday, that Lehman risks a hostile takeover if it doesn't act soon.For now, it matters not that Korea Development Bank wasn't Lehman's first choice. Korean newspapers report that the New York-based brokerage firm first approached sovereign wealth fund Korean Investment Corp. But KDB apparently wasn't upset by the snub, perhaps because of some personal ties to Lehman: Its chief executive, Min Euoo-Sung, was the head of Lehman's Korean operations for three years before taking over at KDB last year.Of particular note is whether the KDB would buy Lehman outright or simply take a big stake. The past year has been busy for sovereign wealth funds and financial companies hit hard by the collapse of the credit bubble. Singapore's Temasek has made two multibillion-dollar investments in Merrill Lynch, the state-run China Investment Corp. has put $5 billion into Morgan Stanley and Abu Dhabi has forked over $7.5 billion for a big hunk of Citi.For Lehman shareholders, the distinction between a buyout and an equity infusion is the difference between taking pain all at once or continuing to suffer for an undetermined time. If Lehman were purchased outright, the firm would no longer need to peddle a piece of its crown jewel, the investment management arm led by the former Neuberger Berman. Nor, presumably, would Lehman need to imminently offload nearly $40 billion in various commercial real estate loans and securities, which are sinking in value on a daily basis. On the other hand, if KDB is looking at a mere equity investment, then Lehman may have to keep reducing the size of its balance sheet. So the firm would get some new cash and a deep-pocketed partner, but it would still be facing big losses selling into an unfriendly market.The Neuberger stake has been valued at anywhere from $8 billion (by Bernstein Research) to well north of $10 billion (various published reports), though it is unclear if Lehman seeks a direct sale or only wants to off-load a percentage of the unit. The issues with the commercial real estate paper are clearer: That portfolio is almost certainly a large slice of the rumored $2 billion to $4 billion hit the firm is said to be looking at for next quarter.Either way, a KDB accord would be a breakthrough because, despite actively seeking bidders and interested parties for the investment management arm and the commercial real estate paper for more than two weeks, Lehman has not come close to striking a deal.Up to this point, Lehman management has taken a very different approach to this crisis from its rivals at Citi and especially Merrill Lynch. Citi and Merrill's leaders have relentlessly struck deals to sell troubled portfolios and reduce their balance sheet issues, even financing transactions at favorable terms to get risky assets off their books.Ultimately, should it fail to do a deal, Lehman is telling the market that CEO Fuld hasn't made a clean break with a failed strategy and wants only another investor to help it through a proverbial rough-spot. That's not a message investors are likely to welcome.Wall Street should soon know where it stands vis a vis Lehman. Richard Bove, the Ladenburg Thalmann analyst, said Friday on Bloomberg TV that Lehman and Fuld have through the weekend to structure some sort of transaction that would give investors the reassurance they seek about the state of the firm's balance sheet.According to Bove, if a deal doesn't materialize by Monday, then "Lehman is in play." He suggested a stock price of around $20 might get a deal done. Given Lehman's recent lows, and the memory of what happened to Bear Stearns earlier this year, that might not sound like a bad price.Despite the ominous warning, it's unlikely that Lehman would become the target of a hostile bid. For one thing, Lehman employees own about 30% of the firm's shares. Still, Fuld has been trying to draw an investor willing to pay a 20% premium to book value, Bove said - or in the low $40 range. While Lehman shareholders, would surely prefer $40 to $20 a share, Bove scoffed that the firm "doesn't have a prayer" of getting the higher price. For Fuld, time may be running out.Uncertainty Over Fannie and Freddie Anxiously awaiting a move by the Treasury Department and spurned by large investment firms, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae find themselves unable to raise capital and with little ability to maneuver.Treasury officials have reviewed multiple plans for intervention, according to people who have spoken to top Treasury officials. But they have not identified a set of triggers that will compel a government bailout. Nor have they indicated to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae executives when a bailout may occur or what form it may take.As a result, investors are telling Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae that they remain unwilling to purchase new shares in the firms. Were in a Catch 22, said an executive with one of the mortgage firms who was not authorized to speak to the media. As long as there is uncertainty over Treasurys plan, we cant raise money, and as long as we cant raise money, theres going to be more and more speculation about Treasurys plan.In recent days, Freddie Mac has met with potential investors at the law offices of Davis, Polk &amp; Wardwell. But the company has been told by several private equity giants  the Texas Pacific Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Company, the Carlyle Group and the Blackstone Group  that those investors are unwilling to purchase any type of new stock in the company until it is clear what steps the Treasury Department may take to assist the ailing firm.You would have to be insane to invest in these companies right now, and weve basically told them that, said an investment professional with one firm that was approached by Freddie Mac, but who is not authorized to speak to the media. When Treasury comes in, they are guaranteed to get a better deal than us, which would push down the value of our investment. So why would we ever invest before we know what Treasury is going to do?Treasury has been asking for management changes at Freddie Mac, according to people briefed on the discussions. Richard F. Syron, the chief executive, has collected more than $38 million in compensation since 2003. Freddie Mac is looking for new investors to fulfill a pledge made to federal regulators earlier this year to raise $5.5 billion. That goal has become increasingly difficult as the stock prices of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have declined by more than 87 percent in the last year. Shares of Freddie Mac fell 35 cents, or 11 percent, to $2.81. Shares of Fannie Mae rose 15 cents, or 3 percent, to $5.In theory, declining stock prices should ...
