 MAY 2008 15 May Barclays takes a further 1bn writedown on assets. 12 May HSBC reveals a further $3.2bn of losses linked to the US sub-prime market. APRIL 2008 22 April The UK's second largest bank, RBS, reveals 5.9bn in writedowns from the credit crunch, and asks its shareholders for an additional 12bn to rebuild its capital base. 18 April Citigroup reveals another $12bn in sub-prime losses, bringing its total to $40bn, the most of any bank. It cuts 9000 jobs amid a quarterly loss of $5bn, down from $9.8bn in the previous quarter. 17April US investment bank Merrill Lynch reveals an additional $4.5bn in credit writedowns and a loss of nearly $2bn in the first quarter of the year. 1 April Swiss bank UBS reveals a further $19bn of asset writedowns. This came on top of the $18.4bn which it announced for 2007. 1 April Germany's Deutsche Bank warns of credit losses of $3.9bn in the first three months of 2008. Read the full storyMARCH 2008 31 March US Treasury announces major package to reform regulation of US financial markets and prevent future financial crises. The plans are criticised by consumer groups but generally praised on Wall Street. 18 March Wall Street investment banks Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers reveal that their first quarter profits have been halved by the credit crunch. But stocks rise on the news that their results have not been as bad as expected. 17 March Wall Street investment bank Bear Stearns is acquired by JPMorgan Chase for $240m, a fraction of its share price, in deal backed by $30bn in Fed loans. The bank got into trouble over its huge exposure to sub-prime mortgage-backed securities. 14 March Bear Stearns receives emergency funding, after its exposure to mortgage-backed investments undermined confidence in the bank. 14 March Investment fund Carlyle Capital fails as the credit crisis spreads from sub-prime related products to other mortgage-backed investments. 11 March Central banks make another coordinated attempt to ease conditions in the credit markets, by announcing $200bn of new emergency lending for banks. 7 March The former bosses of Merrill Lynch and Citigroup are questioned by a Congressional panel over their bumper pay - despite huge, sub-prime related bosses at their banks. 6 March A 1bn hedge fund run by Peloton Partners collapsed, after it struggled to meet interest payments due to the credit crisis. 5 March France's biggest retail bank Credit Agricole announced a fourth quarter loss hit by a 3.3bn euro charge at its investment banking boss, Calyon. 3 March HSBC announced a $17.2bn (8.7bn) loss after the decline in the US housing market hit the value of its loans. FEBRUARY 2008 14 February Commerzbank, Germany's second-biggest bank, cuts $1.1bn off the value of investments linked to the sub-prime mortgage crisis and warns its losses could worsen. Swiss investment bank UBS confirms it has made a loss of $4bn in 2007 after cutting the value of investments by $18.4bn. 13 February Britain's Bradford &amp; Bingley cuts the value of its sub-prime mortgage-related investments by 144.4m ($284.5m). A few weeks earlier it had said it did not expect to suffer any write-downs. Japan's financial watchdog says Japanese banks suffered losses of $5.6bn by the end of 2007. These have more than doubled in the last three months of the year. 12 February Swiss bank Credit Suisse says losses on sub-prime investments were $1.8bn, less than originally expected. 10 February Leaders from the G7 group of industrialised nations say worldwide losses from the US mortgage crisis could reach $400bn. 8 February Deutsche Bank announces $3.2bn of sub-prime write-downs in the third quarter of the financial year and predicts there is not much more to come. 7 February US Federal Reserve boss Ben Bernanke expresses concern about bond insurers that guarantee against defaults on mortgage loans. 6 February Wall Street sees its worst share losses in almost a year, amid fears that the worst US housing slump in 25 years is crippling the wider economy. 5 February US financial firm GMAC, which owns sub-prime lender Residential Capital, says it has made a $2.3bn loss in 2007, compared with a $2.1bn profit the year before. JANUARY 2008 31 January Bond insurer MBIA announces a $2.3bn loss, its biggest yet for a three-month period. It was hit by declines in the value of US mortgage-backed debt, which it guarantees against. 30 January The US Federal Reserve cuts interest rates to 3% from 3.5%. It is the second cut in nine days. US economic growth slows. 29 January The US Federal Bureau of Investigation launches an investigation into 14 companies involved in the sub-prime mortgage crisis. Pub chain owner Mitchells &amp; Butlers loses 274m when a property deal falls through due to the credit crisis. 28 January Belgian bank Fortis warns its losses connected to bad US mortgage debt could be as high as $1.47bn. 25 January Barclays Capital predicts banks will need to raise as much as $143bn to weather the credit crisis. 23 January The Bank of China dismisses rumours it was about to unveil massive losses caused by its exposure to the US sub-prime mortgage market. 22 January The US Federal Reserve cuts interest rates by half a percentage point to 3.5%, it's biggest cut in 25 years. 21 January Global stock markets, including London's FTSE 100 index, suffer their biggest falls since 11 September 2001. 21 January German Bank WestLB warns investors that it expects to write down $1.45bn of investments and make a net loss of a similar amount. 18 January Scottish Equitable introduces delays for investors wanting to withdraw money from its commercial property funds, citing recession and sub-prime worries. 17 January Merrill Lynch unveils a $14.1bn write-down of investments linked to sub-prime mortgages and posts a net loss of $7.8bn in 2007. Investment bank Lehman Brothers cuts 1,300 jobs as it scales back its US mortgage lending business. 16 January US bank JP Morgan Chase says it has cut the value of its mortgage-related investments by $1.3bn. Profits for the last three months of 2007 fall by a third. 15 January Citigroup, the largest bank in the US, reports a $9.8bn loss for the fourth quarter and writes down $18bn in sub-prime losses. It also announces further investments in the group by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.  UBS has said that the crisis had cost it about $13.5bn in total 11 January Swiss investment bank UBS warns that is still does not know the scale of its total losses from the sub-prime crisis and says it might make a loss in 2007 when it reports its full results. Federal Reserve boss Ben Bernanke says that the outlook for the US economy is deteriorating among continuing worries about the sub-prime crisis. The largest mortgage lender in the US, Countrywide, which pioneered sub-prime mortgages, is bought by Bank of America for $4bn after its shares plunge 48%. 9 January Bear Stearns boss James Cayne steps down after the firm reveals $1.9bn in sub-prime losses, the largest in its history. World Bank says that world economic growth will slow in 2008 due to credit crunch, but strong performance in China and India will cushion impact. 7 January President George W Bush admits that the credit crunch could slow the US economy in 2008, but says it is still fundamentally strong. US economists urge government action to ease looming US economic slowdown as a result of credit crunch. 4 January US unemployment rises sharply as job report sparks fall in stock market DECEMBER 2007 19 December Morgan Stanley writes off $9.4bn in sub-prime losses and sells a 9.9% stake in the company to the Chinese state investment company CIC for $5bn to rebuild its capital. 18 December The US Federal Reserve Bank tightens rules on sub-prime lending, requiring mortgage companies to check more carefully on customers' income and give full disclosure of the cost of the loan. ECB lends European commercial banks $500bn over the Christmas period to help ease the credit crisis. Bank of England makes 10bn available to UK banks to ease credit crunch. 17 December US central bank, the Federal Reserve, makes $20bn available to commercial banks at auction to help ease the credit crunch. Former Fed chairman Alan Greenspan urges the US government to give direct aid to homeowners hit by the sub-prime crisis. 14 December Citigroup takes $49bn worth of sub-prime debts back on its balance sheets, effectively closing seven structured investment vehicles (SIVs) which had relied on money market funding. 13 December World central banks agree coordinated action to inject at least $100bn into short-term inter-bank credit markets to restore confidence. 11 December US central bank, the Federal Reserve, cuts interest rates for a third time to 4.25% to ease the credit crunch. 10 December Swiss bank UBS reports a further $10bn write-down caused by bad debts in the US housing market. Lloyds TSB reveals that bad debt linked to the US sub-prime mortgage crisis will cost it 200m. 6 December President George W Bush outlines plans to protect more than a million homeowners hit by the US housing slump. Royal Bank of Scotland warns it will write off about 1.25bn because of exposure to the US sub-prime market. The Bank of England cuts UK interest rates for the first time since 2005, amid signs that the economy is slowing. The European Central Bank keeps interest rates in the eurozone at their current level of 4%. 4 December US mortgage giant Fannie Mae is to issue $7bn of shares to cover losses linked to the housing market. Canada cuts interest rates for the first time since April 2004 amid credit fears. The future of the UK mortgage industry remains bright, despite the current funding crisis, say lenders. UK mortgage lenders should prepare for the global credit crunch to get much worse, the City watchdog says. 3 December Credit agency Moody's widens its debt review, having already earmarked $116bn of debt for downgrading. November 2007 30 November US construction spending falls sharply, led by a...
