ForeclosureRadar said the number of filings that initiate foreclosure dropped in July for the second straight month. Banks filed 2,206 notices of default last month, down 13% from the May peak. (For the full report released yesterday,  CLICK HERE) Statewide the trend is similar with NODs, which totaled 40,219 in July, dropping for three straight months. But [...] ForeclosureRadar said the number of filings that initiate foreclosure dropped in July for the second straight month. Banks filed 2,206 notices of default last month, down 13% from the May peak. (For the full report released yesterday,  CLICK HERE) Statewide the trend is similar with NODs, which totaled 40,219 in July, dropping for three straight months. But that may not be a sign foreclosures will abate, says Sean O&amp;#8217;Toole, founder of&amp;nbsp;ForeclosureRadar.com. Ninety-one percent of the decline in notices of default since April can be attributed to Countrywide Financial,&amp;#8221; O&amp;#8217;Toole said.  &amp;#8220;Unfortunately, this is more likely due to the challenges of integrating two companies the size of Countrywide Financial and Bank of America, than it is a fundamental shift in foreclosure activity. Getting back to the O.C., other numbers are more troubling. Banks foreclosed on (meaning put up for auction) 1,444 homes last month in Orange County, up 24% from June and more than triple a year ago. More foreclosures are likely on the way, since banks filed 2,128 auction notices last month, up 8% from June and 270% from July &amp;#8216;07. Next week DataQuick should release its Orange County foreclosure stats. And in related topics&amp;#8230;   Anaheim company sues Ed McMahon over mortgage Long Beach congresswoman can get foreclosed house back Mapping foreclosures in O.C. Foreclosure threat spreads in O.C. Nearly 80% of Calif. homeowners lose home after first warning from bank June foreclosures top 1,000 for a second month 2 of 5 subprime borrowers who got help defaulted again Shift in loan delinquencies  prime up, subprime down Early foreclosure filings dip in June in Orange County 
