 G. G. Bain The Examining Room February 27, 1917 "Examining naval volunteers." New York Ilargi: Two interviews today paint a clearer picture of the future of US home prices and the finance industry. Barrons spoke with Nouriel Roubini, who is extensively portrayed as a perma-bear and a doomer. I think its -a bit too- convenient for Barrons/WSJ to paint Roubini as a doomer, and then quote him with numbers that no longer look doomerish at all; hes more mainstream than anything else these days.Roubini even states that "...the global economy is going to grow at a sustained rate once this downturn is over..". And "..There will be transitional costs and the displacement of workers, both blue-collar and white, in the advanced economies. But I'm quite bullish about the state of the global economy, and I'm positive about the medium and long term.."The media like it that way, its as if they have control over the very meaning of words. They can claim that they publish even the most downbeat analysts -and Roubini has been given that label- while these views themselves are quite moderate, and anything but doomerish.Meredith Whitney is not known as a bear or doomer (except by bankers who dont like her analysis of their firms). But in her interview in Fortune Magazine her views turn out to be darker than Roubinis. In numbers: Roubini says home prices could fall "as much as 30%", while Whitney said last week that 33% is so low as to be "mathematically impossible". Fortune claims that in her view it will be 40%.In hard numbers: the total value, at the peak, of US residential real estate, was about $21 trillion. Now, I have difficulties with the fact that Roubini, and Barrons, claim that total "debt-related" losses "may" be as much as $2 trillion. Thats just for banks. For real Americans, there is more: US home prices are down 15.8% -Case/Shiller-, and that means $3.3 trillion is gone there alone, already. If we take Roubinis view, the 30% decline would bite $6.3 trillion out of US wealth. Whitneys 40% decline would result in a loss of $8.4 trillion. The perversity in these numbers is that Americans will still be on the hook for mortgage payments linked to the peak number, $21 trillion, while their homes will be worth only $12.6 trillion, if we follow Whitney. Consumer spending is responsible for some 70% of US GDP. But potential spending power worth more than 50% of the $13.5 trillion in annual GDP is about to disappear. Moreover, the same consumers are being forced to pay the tab for failing banks, for Fannie and Freddies losses, and soon for the FDICs deposit guarantees. On top of that, Roubini, for one, sees a 40% drop in share values across the board.In view of all these numbers, as well as the present negative savings rates and enormous debt levels for individuals, companies and governments alike, plus trillions of dollars in additional losses to be revealed when toxic paper is exposed to daylight, I simply dont see how the US economy can get out of this in any way, form or shape that even remotely resembles the one it had going into the millenium.Whitney: Credit crunch far from over The credit crisis is far from over, star analyst Meredith Whitney tells Fortune magazine in its upcoming issue.Whitney, who audaciously - and correctly - predicted last October that Citigroup would have to cut its dividend, tells the magazine that banks in general today are still facing much bigger credit losses than what they've reported so far.The Oppenheimer &amp; Co. analyst warned last year - and continues to warn today - that the "incestuous" relationship between the banks and the credit-rating agencies during the real estate bubble will have a long-lasting impact on banks' ability to recover.For years the ratings agencies, which are paid by the issuers of bonds, gave high marks to securities backed by subprime mortgages. Many of those bonds, of course, turned out to be anything but safe. With Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's now trying to make up for past wrongs, the pace of downgrades on mortgage securities is quickening.This is a problem, because every time their portfolios are hit by significant credit downgrades, banks are forced to improve their capital ratios. Often that means issuing reams of new stock, which leads to serious dilution, as shareholders at Citi, Merrill Lynch, and Washington Mutual now know."You're going to have this stealth pressure on bank balance sheets until you start to see the ratio of downgrades to upgrades change," Whitney tells the magazine. Whitney's bearishness has deep roots. In fact, she was the first analyst to sound the alarm loudly about subprime mortgages, predicting back in October 2005 that there would be "unprecedented credit losses" for subprime lenders. The problem, as she saw it, was that loose lending standards and the proliferation of teaser-rate mortgage products had artificially inflated the U.S. home-ownership rate. A lot of the new homeowners were in over their heads, she believed, and would have trouble making their monthly payments when home prices started to fall and their teaser rates got bumped up.Whitney's current concern is that banks aren't slashing costs and cutting losses in their loan portfolios fast enough. On the cost side, she says, banks have yet to come to terms with the disappearance of the securitization market, which she believes will stay in hibernation for the next three years.Why does this matter? From 2001 through 2005, for every dollar of bank capital used to make mortgage loans, 10 were supplied via investors in mortgage securities. All that secondary-market capital is now sidelined, but the staffing levels of bank lending departments don't yet reflect it. By Whitney's reckoning, banks have laid off about 7% of their employees; she thinks the cuts need to reach 25%.She also argues that banks need to "get real" about how they're valuing their problem mortgage-related debt, much as Merrill Lynch has now done. Merrill recently sold a large package of toxic mortgage debt for just 22 cents on the dollar.Whitney's idea of "real" is pretty drastic. Whereas most banks are estimating 20% to 25% peak-to-trough declines in housing prices, the Case-Shiller housing futures traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange portend a much steeper 33% decline, she points out.In fact, Whitney thinks the actual declines will be worse - closer to 40% - because of the loss of the securitization market and the paucity of mortgage credit available. And that means more defaults: "The consumer's ability to refinance his way out of trouble has diminished greatly."Whitney's critics, and there are many among bankers and analysts, contend her bearishness at this point shows she simply doesn't now how to measure the remaining downside risk. Her response: If she has no idea how to properly value bank stocks now, it's because the metrics don't work. Price-to-earnings ratios are useless when earnings are nonexistent. And valuing banks on price-to-book ratios is just as futile. Those book values - which reflect underlying assets and liabilities - are moving targets. "Citibank has lost 50% of its book value since last year," says Whitney, who is married to pro wrestler John Layfield."I do not think we are near the end of write-downs," she tells Fortune, "so I continue to see capital levels going lower, capital raises diluting existing shares further, and stocks going lower." Yes, That's $2 Trillion of Debt-Related Losses Unfortunately for the rest of us, you have a pretty good track record. How much more misery lies ahead?We are in the second inning of a severe, protracted recession, which started in the first quarter of this year and is going to last at least 18 months, through the middle of next year. A systemic banking crisis will go on for awhile, with hundreds of banks going belly up.Which banks will fail?I don't want to name names, but many, given the housing bust, will become insolvent. Their losses are mounting because they have written down only their subprime loans so far. They haven't started writing down most of their consumer-credit losses, and reserves for losses are much less than they should have been. The banks are playing all sorts of accounting gimmicks not to recognize them. There are hundreds of [billions] of dollars outstanding in home-equity loans that eventually could be worth zero, too.So far, we have seen no recession in the technical sense: two consecutive quarters of negative growth in real GDP. Why not?The definition of a recession isn't only two consecutive quarters of negative growth. The NBER (National Bureau of Economic Research) puts a lot of emphasis on things like employment, and employment has already fallen for seven months in a row. It also emphasizes income and retail and wholesale sales. Many of these things are declining.Maybe the recession started in January; if you look at the data on gross domestic product on a monthly basis between February and April, GDP was falling. Saying this is not a recession is just a joke. Maybe instead of a 'U' recession and recovery, it will be a 'W,' with a rebound in the second quarter. But by the third quarter, the effect of the government's tax rebates is totally gone, because other forces on the consumer are more persistent and negative.Which forces, for instance?The U.S. consumer is shopped out and saving less. Debt to disposable income has risen to 140% from 100% in 2000. Hit by falling home prices, the consumer no longer can use his house as an ATM machine. The stock market is falling and (issuance of) home-equity loans (has) collapsed. We have a credit crunch in mortgages, and gas is around $4 a gallon. Everyone says, 'yeah, that's true, but as long as there is job generation there is going to be income generation and people are going to spend.' But for seven months in a row, employment in the private sector has fallen.The most worrisome thing is that in spite of the rebates, retail sales in June were up only 0....
