 National Photo Company Old Dutch Market 1920. The chain ("The Market of Cleanliness"), whose main store was at 622-24 Pennsylvania Avenue, had about a dozen branches in the Washington area.  Ilargi: So far in August, while one half of the population is in a state of euphoria induced by lower commodities prices and a higher dollar, the other half keeps its eyes on the ball, the chain and the money. Yes, the US trade deficit went down a bit in June, but you want to know why? Because the dollar was so low until August started that US products were cheap and exports went up. The higher buck will take care of that one. Oil prices went down, partly, because Americans cant afford to drive at higher prices. Not really a sign that justifies euphoria either.But what is more important is that the developments that have led the way down until now, keep getting worse. In housing, we see British real estate agents down to one sale per week. In the US, Alt-A, Option-ARM and prime mortgages are starting to default in frighteningly large numbers. In both countries, the tendency and direction in the financial world is one of an increasing tightening of credit.No matter what is offered to Fannie and Freddie, they are both so deep in the doghouse that they must cut their purchases of mortgage loans. They cannot take on more risk. Their shares have entered single-digit numbers, and there is no respite; they lose more every single day, and the point will come when they're worth less than a dollar per share. That is simply too low to be considered going concerns.That means no-one is left to purchase loans, in no shape or form. Banks and lenders cant keep them on their books, because they in turn also cannot take on more risk. And investors today feel about mortgage backed securities the way they do about their mothers-in-law.This will mean that banks have no more credit to lend out, not for individuals looking for a home mortgage, a student loan or a car loan, nor for companies seeking to finance their operations. Our societies will cease to function the way they always have during our lifetimes, and that will force us to adopt an entirely new (for us) way of living and working.The only correct way to summarize the state of the real estate industry, in the US, and the UK and soon in many more countries, is "collapse". 90%+ of builders and lenders will go the way of the dodo. A vast majority of the companies in the field are bleeding money left right and center. They have survived this far because they had some reserves, and their accounting methods are allowed to be borderline criminally creative.However, the main, and often only, reason they hold on is their hope and faith that things will soon turn around and happy la-la land days will be back. But finance is not a religion, and faith cant print money. There will be no magical comeback of anything even resembling the industry as it was until recently, not for many years. We have literally spent our future.There remain trillions of dollars in unaddressed gambling debt problems in vaults around the world. Some of them are housing related, but many more are not. The giant Threadneedle and Wall Street casino's have bet on everything that moves, and for good measure also on everything that doesn't. Until we have seen the bets, and they have been properly processed and paid off, nothing will be solved. And as we saw yesterday, an estimated $1.2 trillion and $6 trillion have vanished from Britain's and America's respective total wealth. In one year. That is about $20.000 for every citizen of these countries, and $80.000 for a nuclear family. And the losses don't just continue unabated, they get worse. This cannot go on much longer; something's got to give.The present euphoria is not a sign of a return to stable and well-funded conditions. It's the expected and inevitable sign of dangerous volatility, the kind that can blow up at any given moment. Update 4.30 pm EDT Ilargi: Here's today's financials closing numbers, blood red all around again. Funny that carmakers are the lone risers, on the same day that a report states US oil consumption is down 800.000 barrels per day.In this first piece, Doug Noland offers a strikingly accurate view of what is happening. His is a long article, and I recommend you all read it in its entirety.Riddle of the burst bubble Here's how I see it. Many are celebrating the bursting of the energy/commodities bubble. Rapidly declining oil and resource prices are now expected to alleviate inflationary pressures while bolstering household purchasing power. There'll be no pressure on the US Federal Reserve to raise rates, while their global central bank compatriots can soon begin cutting. The consensus view is that this is bullish for the US economy and stock market and, if nothing else, market action did take attention away from troubling financial and economic news. I am not one to easily dismiss notions of bursting bubbles, and perhaps there is something to the energy-bust thesis. I'm just skeptical of the idea that a slumping global economy is behind recent stunning price declines. Examining the global market backdrop, I sense different dynamics at play - important dynamics. And I tend to believe rapidly retreating commodities markets should be viewed in the context of a bursting leveraged speculating community bubble. The leveraged speculators have struggled since this year's initial trading sessions. "Quant" and "market neutral" strategies in particular have foundered, although wild market volatility, illiquidity, and weak global securities markets have been an impediment for virtually all strategies. The hedge-fund industry has been trying to adapt to tighter credit conditions from the Wall Street firms and generally less-liquid markets. Overall, leveraged strategies have been problematic, whether the underlying positions were in residential mortgages, commercial mortgages or corporate loans. The easy days of leveraged spread trades ("borrow cheap and lend dear") quickly became quite difficult. And the easy returns in emerging markets turned abruptly into painful losses. Overall, global equities have performed quite poorly and global bonds somewhat poorly. Not many things have performed well and, worse yet, various trades that were supposed to offer diversification all became too tightly correlated. Crude ended the first half at US$140. Major commodities indices concluded June at record highs - sporting spectacular year-to-date gains. There's no doubt that the speculator community had all crowded into the energy/commodities trade, one of a rapidly narrowing menu of speculations offering juicy (and desperately needed) returns. At the same time, the long energy/short financials "pairs trade" was also put on in great excess. The speculator community likely crowded as well further into dollar short positions, for years now an almost surefire winner. The more the crowded industry struggled for performance, the more they were forced to crowd into the same crowded trades. I would argue that the bubble in the leveraged speculating community played a significant role in fueling energy/commodities prices inflation beyond what was justified by exceptionally bullish fundamentals. I wouldn't, however, write off energy and commodities as burst bubbles. A lot of things had to go right for the vulnerable leveraged speculator community not to be pushed over the edge. Of course, markets tend not to accommodate the impaired - and the current market is particularly ruthless in this regard. The energy trade has unraveled badly. Commodities markets have been in near freefall. The dollar has mustered its most ferocious rally in quite some time. At the same time, spreads on agency debt and mortgage-backed securities (MBS) have widened, while global bond prices have offered little performance help. Corporate debt prices have performed poorly, while "private-label" MBS and various mortgage-related derivatives have traded dismally. Meanwhile, the financial stocks and other heavily shorted equities have rallied significantly. In short, a whole host of popular trades have gone wrong at the same time - a huge problem for the fragile industry. We're now in the midst of another one of these precarious periods. I believe global markets - equities, debt, currencies, and commodities - are all in some stage of dislocation (perhaps not emerging debt, at least yet). Trading conditions across the spectrum of markets are as chaotic as I've ever witnessed, a dislocation chiefly related to the now forced unwinds of speculative positions. Recent extreme global market volatility is part and parcel to the heightened monetary disorder I have been addressing for months now. The massive global pool of speculative finance has run amuck. The bulls will celebrate the rally, yet markets this unstable are prone to "melt-ups" that lead to breakdowns. Earnings reports last week from Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and AIG - three of our largest financial institutions - were horrendous. Financial sector hemorrhaging has actually accelerated, and definitely do not underestimate the impact of tightened credit in the pipeline from Fannie, Freddie and others. With limited "capital" quickly evaporating, Freddie stated that its aggressive retained portfolio growth has come to a conclusion. Fannie intimated about the same. Fannie will curtail purchases of alt-A loans, and it is clear that both companies have lost the capacity to provide the speculators a "backstop bid" in the MBS marketplace. This major additional tightening of mortgage credit availability and marketplace liquidity will further depress housing markets and bolster the headwinds buffeting our vulnerable economy. Yet it is not the nature of dislocated markets to let fundamentals get in the way of price movement. Markets, after all, live on fear and greed. Sinking energy prices and a short squeeze ignited US stocks this week. And surging stock prices always enti...
