Battered US financial groups will have to refinance billions of dollars in maturing debt over the coming months, a move likely to push banks' funding costs higher and curb their profitability, say bankers and analysts.  The banks' need to raise capital to offset mounting credit-related losses is forcing them to pay higher interest rates to entice investors.   The rising funding costs are set to put pressure on earnings because, in many of their businesses, banks rely on the difference between borrowing and lending rates to make money.  &amp;amp;quot;It is difficult to see how banks will continue to repeat the heady profit growth of the past few years if they borrow at these levels,&amp;amp;quot; said a Wall Street banker.  Banks could also be forced to raise lending rates, exacerbating the credit crunch felt by many businesses and individuals and further depressing economic activity.  Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief executive of Pimco, the asset management group, said: &amp;amp;quot;If banks keep borrowing at these levels, you will get a repricing of credit for the whole economy.&amp;amp;quot;  Last week, financial groups including Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and American International Group borrowed almost $20bn in new long-term debt, paying some of the highest interest rates ever in order to lock in funding. The wave of refinancing is set to continue for several months as billions of dollars in bank debt come due.  For example, Citigroup has more than $5bn of maturing bonds in August, but this climbs to $12.8bn in December, according to Dealogic data. Bank of America, with $7bn maturing in August, also faces higher refunding needs in December, with $9bn of maturing bonds.  Adding together 10 of the biggest bank borrowers, Dealogic said that maturing bonds total $27bn in August, $52bn in September, $23bn in October, $20bn in November and $86bn in December. The extent of the scramble for funds became clear last week when banks tapped central lending facilities, with strong demand for one- and three-month money lent by the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank. US commercial banks borrowed a record daily average of $17.7bn from the Fed last week.  The lack of investor demand for structured finance products means that more short-term funding will need to come from traditional money market products, according to analysts. &amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;PLIGG_Visual_RSS_OriginalNews 
