Even when the bad news is fake news: I keep hearing a lot of this sort of pessimism, both in the speeches and among the delegates: "America is facing its greatest economic challenges since the Great Depression." Really. That's a... Even when the bad news is fake news:  I keep hearing a lot of this sort of pessimism, both in the speeches and among the delegates: "America is facing its greatest economic challenges since the Great Depression." Really. That's a pretty big stretch given that we've only had one quarter of negative economic growth in the past year, unemployment is still below 6 percent, incomes were growing briskly from 2003-2007, and productivity has averaged more than 2.5 percent a quarter during the past year and a half. Some perspective, people!  And why go back to the Great Depression, anyways? For a really bad economic climate, just go back to 1980, the last year of the Carter administration. The Misery Index (unemployment rate plus inflation rate) was 20.8. Today, the MI is at 11.3. (We were also at the start of a productivity slowdown that took a generation of smarter tax, regulatory and monetary policy to help turn around.) By the way, a new forecast from a respected group of University of Michigan economists predicts the economy will grow 2.6 percent in the first half of 2009, 3.3 percent in the second half, and 3.6 percent in 2010.  I tire of all the economic gloom and doom that's being broadcast by Democrats and carried absent scrutiny by a compliant media.  We're certainly not booming by any stretch of the imagination but to hear the Democrats speak, we're all in the poorhouse and things won't get better unless they're elected.  What a complete crock of poop.   Look around.  Ask your family members.  Ask yourself.  Are you really, I mean seriously, in bad shape economically?  Are you?   UPDATE: Amazing that the media is even reporting this nevertheless, it sure is timely.  Remember it next time you hear Democratic despair:  The economy shifted to a higher gear in the spring, growing at its fastest pace in nearly a year as foreign buyers snapped up U.S. exports and tax rebates spurred shoppers at home.  The Commerce Department reported Thursday that gross domestic product, or GDP, increased at a 3.3 percent annual rate in the April-June quarter. The revised reading was much better than the government's initial estimate of a 1.9 percent pace and exceeded economists' expectations for a 2.7 percent growth rate.  UPDATE II: You don't believe there's media bias?  You want to question that assertion?  Then you're a freakin' idiot.  The story I excerpted above in the first update has basically been rewritten.  In fact, the excerpt no longer exists.  Here's what the story now reads with a headline that blares "Spring's economic rebound unlikely to last", a headline that read something vastly different when I first found it:  The economy pulled out of a dangerous rough patch in the spring, thanks largely to strong exports, but the rebound isn't expected to last. Economic slowdowns overseas could make exports tail off just as Americans are hunkering down after the bracing impact of rebate checks wanes, plunging the country into another rut later this year.  "There will be heavy sledding for the U.S. economy during the next couple of quarters," predicted Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bank of America's Investment Strategies Group.  There you have it.  I was incredulous when I first found the AP story, thinking wow, it's slipped under someone's radar... but that now's been fixed.  It's too bad I didn't take some screen shots.   But who knows, maybe someone did and if I find out, I'll be sure to bring it up.  An incredible display of raw and unquestionable bias. 
