 NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) Oil prices were caught in a tug-of-war Tuesday between ongoing concerns about falling global demand and worries about supply disruption in Eastern Europe. U.S. crude for September delivery was trading down $1.37 to $113.08 a barrel at 11:22 a.m. ET. Earlier it had climbed $1.50 a barrel to $115.95 a barrel on concerns that fighting in Georgia would disrupt the flow of oil between Asia and Europe. But concern about supply disruption in the region failed to keep prices in positive territory as oil prices extended a slide that has knocked $34, or about 22%, from oils peak price of $147.27 on July 11.  Unless it worsens, the Georgia-Russia conflict is having comparatively little impact compared to what it wouldve done [had it happened] in June, said Ann-Louise Hittle, oil analyst at Wood Mackenzie. Georgian conflict. Despite an early morning announcement from Russias president that the military push had ended, the Georgian government said war planes continued to strike the capital of Tbilisi. Georgia produces very little oil but serves as an important hub for transporting crude and natural gas between Europe and Asia. Complete victory by Russia could give the country control of all the oil and natural gas flowing through the region. BP pipeline. Oil company BP said early Tuesday that it had shut down the Baku-Supsa pipeline, which carries 90,000 barrels of oil per day through the embattled nation of Georgia, for fear that it could be damaged during the fighting. BP has a 30% stake in the pipeline as part of a multinational venture based in Turkey. The Baku-Supsa line carries crude through the western part of Georgia from the Black Sea. The countrys Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline had already been shut down before Russian and Georgian forces began clashing in the breakaway province of South Ossetia. That pipeline had been closed due to an unrelated fire on its Turkish span. BP also said that the South Caucusas Pipeline, which carries natural gas from Azebaijan, had also been shut down. Another oil pipeline, which is used by BP but not owned by it, remained open. Oil has been trending lower since the end of July and continued to fall on Monday, despite the start of fighting over the weekend. The last time the commodity traded in the $113 range was on April 15, when the market closed at $113.79 a barrel. The fact that oil didnt go up immediately was partly a reflection of market sentiment, and partly a reflection that the big pipeline had already been out of action before the hostilities started, said Kevin Norrish, commodities analyst with Barclays Capital in London. Falling demand. Worries about supply disruption in Georgia served as a counter to sentiment that the global economy, and thus demand for oil, are slowing. The net result was not much change in the oil price, said Norrish.  China reported Monday that crude oil imports had fallen 7% in July, compared to a year earlier, underscoring concerns that the high price of crude oil and products made from it are taking a toll on consumption in Asia. The International Energy Agency, which guides the energy policies of 27 member nations in Europe, Asia and North America, also lowered its demand forecast to 48.6 million barrels a day for the year. But the watchdog said it is too early to tell if this is a lasting trend. The group also urged caution, saying that despite oils recent declines, prices will remain expensive, especially for poorer nations. Dollar. A stronger dollar also pressured oil prices. The dollar lost ground against the euro Tuesday but has surged in recent days. Oil is traded in dollars, so when the dollar strengthens, crude oil becomes relatively more expensive to foreign investors. Investors remain wary of weaker economic growth in the 15-nation euro zone. Everybody thought the rest of the world was going to be immune from the slowdown in the economy, and I think people are realizing this is not the case, said Phil Flynn, senior market analyst with Alaron Trading in Chicago. Gasoline. Many investors believe the rising price of crude oil and gasoline has begun to cut demand in the U.S., the worlds largest oil consumer. The average price of retail gas in the U.S. has fallen more than 31 cents to $3.799 a gallon at the pump over the past 26 days. But gas prices remain more than a dollar higher than where they were 12 months ago.Similar posts:  pressure reducing regulator
