Baltic Exchange Dry Index - what&amp;#8217;s that? Per Wikipedia, The Baltic Dry Index is an index covering dry bulk shipping rates and managed by the Baltic Exchange in London. According to Baltic Exchange, the index provides:   an assessment of the price of moving the major raw materials by sea. Taking in 26 shipping routes measured [...] Baltic Exchange Dry Index - what&amp;#8217;s that? Per Wikipedia, The Baltic Dry Index is an index covering dry bulk shipping rates and managed by the Baltic Exchange in London. According to Baltic Exchange, the index provides:   an assessment of the price of moving the major raw materials by sea. Taking in 26 shipping routes measured on a timecharter and voyage basis, the index covers Supramax, Panamax, and Capesize dry bulk carriers carrying a range of commodities including coal, iron ore and grain. Let&amp;#8217;s have Dan Gross (Slate) expain Why you should care about the Baltic Dry Index The BDI is a good leading indicator for economic growth and production. After all, it doesn&amp;#8217;t deal with container ships carrying finished goods. It deals with the precursors to production: bulk carriers carrying building materials, cement, grain, coal, and iron. Unlike stock and bond markets, the BDI &amp;#8220;is totally devoid of speculative content,&amp;#8221; Because the supply of cargo ships is generally both tight and inelasticit takes two years to build a new ship, and ships are too expensive to take out of circulation the way airlines park unneeded jets in the Arizona desertmarginal increases in demand can push the index higher quickly. And significant increases in demand can push the index sharply higher. Movements in the Baltic Index tend to precede movements in global stock markets. But the index also tends to presage higher interest rates. When more stuff is being shipped around the world, it needs to be financed. And that creates a greater demand for credit. Devoid of speculative content? Not so fast! Wall Street is always ready &amp;amp; willing to speculate: IHT: One-obscure Baltic Exchange has become hot with investors The trading volume of dry freight derivatives, a market estimated to be worth about $50 billion in 2006, grew as those needing ships attempted to contain their risks and investment banks and hedge funds looked to make profits from speculating on price movements. UBS, JPMorgan Chase and Barclays are among banks that have announced plans to expand their shipping investment products. . . . the current credit crunch and the reluctance of banks to lend made it more expensive to raise the $350 billion needed to finance the estimated 10,000 ships on order. . . . the large order books are bringing back memories of the market downturn in the 1980s, when a recession, an oil glut and an oversupply of vessels kept thousands of ships in harbors. Look at the chart below - the BDI rose almost ten-fold since 2001! And this is not some obscure emerging/frontier market equity index; this is an indicator of global trade.  The one year chart is even more interesting (read: volatile). After a huge run-up to all time highs in October &amp;#8216;07, the BDI dropped like a rock, only to recover to record highs in May. Since then, it&amp;#8217;s dropped ~ 30% to 8340. No wonder Wall Street wants a piece of the action!  If the BDI really is a leading indicator of global economic momentum (and hence equities), what does the current drop imply? Is this the &amp;#8216;beginning of the end&amp;#8217; in terms of global growth this decade? Given that most developed countries are already in slowdown/recession, all we need are signs of weakness in China &amp;amp; India before the downtrend in BDI accelerates. And that, in turn, would be quite bearish for stock markets around the world.  
