 Terrry McCrann, usually spot on in such predictions, gives the Rudd Government cause to hope:  A rate cut at the September RBA meeting in little more than four weeks is certain.   Except, of course, the cut is coming because the economy is slowing - and perhaps faster than expected. Which makes it a terrible time to be planning an expensive and useless carbon tax.   UPDATE   This is what brings us the good news:  Retailers suffered their worst month in seven years in June as the money through the till dropped by 1 per cent under the weight of rising mortgage costs and soaring petrol prices.&amp;nbsp; The Reserve Bank separately released figures showing growth in home lending at its lowest level in 25 years, while other personal and business lending was also weak.   UPDATE 2   Have Kevin Rudd and the Reserve Bank hit the brakes too hard?    &amp;#8220;This economy is slowing a lot quicker than we all thought,&amp;#8221; National Australia Bank chief economist Alan Oster said yesterday....   &amp;#8220;It can only be a matter of time before retailers - the largest single employer in the country - start to fire their workers,&amp;#8221; Morgan Stanley chief economist Gerard Minack said.   The question was put three different ways to Rudd on AM this morning (no link yet). Guess how many times he answered it?   UPDATE 3   Alan Moran says Rudd&amp;#8217;s mad emissions plan is already costing the economy plenty:  AN emissions trading scheme has not even started but the Government&amp;#8217;s hostility to carbon emissions is already choking off the supply of electricity, leading to an inevitable rise in prices. Coal is used to generate 90 per cent of Australia&amp;#8217;s electricity, but no business can fund new coal-fired power plants under the existing policy settings. The last big coal-based power station built with private funding was Millmerran in Queensland, completed in 2002 by a Shell-led consortium&amp;#8230;   These developments have brought an increase in wholesale prices. Average electricity prices in NSW and Victoria during the past couple of years have been $50 a megawatt hour. Ten years ago they were about $30 a megawatt hour. That increase is already equivalent to the tax of $20 a tonne of CO2 that the green paper estimates will mean a - presumably acceptable - 16 per cent rise in electricity prices.   UPDATE 4   On 3AW Rudd three times dodged another question, this one from Neil Mitchell: are more people going to lose their jobs? And twice dodged this one: is a recession now a possibility?  
