KEVIN RUDD has demanded banks pass on to struggling mortgage-holders any cuts to the official interest rate by the Reserve Bank.  Despite the National Australia Bank and ANZ recently revealing billion-dollar losses due to the US subprime crisis, Mr Rudd said yesterday that banks still enjoyed &amp;amp;quot;huge&amp;amp;quot; profits, and should share any reduction in funding costs.  &amp;amp;quot;These banks have a responsibility to act a Look at the overall profitability levels of our banks, they are huge,&amp;amp;quot; he said.  Amid evidence that past rate rises are cooling the economy more rapidly than expected, the markets are predicting the Reserve will cut rates by Christmas.  But calls from the Sydney Morning Herald to each of the big four banks last night failed to secure a guarantee from any that they would pass on a reduction. &amp;amp;quot;We don't comment on hypotheticals,&amp;amp;quot; a Commonwealth Bank spokesman said.  However, the former governor of the Reserve Bank, Bernie Fraser - who oversaw the reduction in the official cash rate in the early 1990s from a peak of 18 per cent - told the Herald that competitive pressures would force the banks to cut lending rates in step with the Reserve.  &amp;amp;quot;In those days a they were keen to get their rates down so that they could get some more lending business,&amp;amp;quot; he said.  &amp;amp;quot;This time it's different because the global money markets are still caught up in these American problems and the cost of money in those markets is still very high.&amp;amp;quot;  Despite those forces, Mr Fraser said banks would have to cut lending rates. &amp;amp;quot;I'm not in the business of telling banks what to do, I just think that competitive pressures will oblige them to pass on any Reserve Bank reduction.&amp;amp;quot;  At a speech in Melbourne last night, Mr Rudd sought to prepare the nation for tighter times ahead by repeating the budget forecasts of a slowdown in growth and a rise in unemployment.  It predicts unemployment to increase from the current 4.2 per cent to 4.75 per cent by June.  Mr Rudd blamed international forces. &amp;amp;quot;Industrialised nations are facing some of the most uncertain economic conditions in the past two decades, with soaring energy and food prices, combined with uncertainty in global credit markets,&amp;amp;quot; he said.  But the co-author of a recent inflation survey has said that the Government's budget tax cuts, along with rental and petrol price increases, have been inflationary.  The TD Securities and Melbourne Institute survey recorded annual inflation at 4.6 per cent in July. The survey's co-author, Professor Don Harding, said price pressures had returned &amp;amp;quot;with a vengeance&amp;amp;quot; partly because of the tax cuts that came into effect on July 1.  Economists expect the tax cuts will help retail spending recover from its biggest monthly fall in six years in June.  The Treasurer, Wayne Swan, said any bank that failed to pass on a rate cut would feel the wrath of mortgage-holders: &amp;amp;quot;I think customers will be absolutely filthy if the banks do not pass on - within a reasonable time - any official cash rate reductions.&amp;amp;quot;  A Macquarie Bank economist, Rory Robertson, said that if banks failed to pass on a cash rate reduction, the Reserve would simply cut it again the next month.  The Opposition Leader, Brendan Nelson, said the Howard government had a strong record of convincing banks to lower rates.  &amp;amp;quot;It remains to be seen whether Mr Rudd and Mr Swan can do the same; however, their track record so far in relation to convincing the banks not to increase rates beyond official increases is very poor.&amp;amp;quot; &amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;original news 
