  &amp;nbsp;Inflation data, oil and financials hammer stocksStocks at  Wall Street ended lower on Tuesday, 19 August, 2008. Stocks continued to be hurt  due to the credit crisis situation in the financial sector, drop in quarterly  earnings from a couple of retailers and a batch of economic reports that were  against investor sentiments. Crude prices rising by more than 2% today also took  a toll on stocks at Wall Street. Eight of the ten sectors ended in the red  today.Though market opened modestly lower in the morning, the inflation  data followed by the bleak housing report dragged market further lower. The Dow  Jones industrial Average ended the day with a loss of 130.84 points at  11,348.55. The Nasdaq Composite Index, finished lower by 32.62 points at  2,384.66. S&amp;amp;P 500 finished lower by 11.91 points at 1,266.69.Twenty  six of thirty Dow components ended in the red led by AIG, Bank of America and  American Express. AIG dropped more than 6% on reports that the company might  have to raise more capital.The Labor Department reported today that U.S.  producer prices rose by a bigger-than-expected 1.2% in July. It was driven  higher by prices for energy, food and other products. Market was looking for an  increase of 0.3% in July. Excluding food and energy, producer prices rose 0.7%  in the month, which was also higher than expected. In July, energy prices rose  3.1% and food prices climbed by 0.3%.The report hit the wires just  before Wall Street opened in the morning. It fuelled a sell-off among stocks and  the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped by almost 100 points within an hour  after market opened.Also, the Commerce Department reported today that  the number of new homes starting construction in July has sharply dropped. The  number of new single-family permits dropped to the lowest level in 26 years.  Builders are cutting back their production of new homes and trying to work off  unsold inventory. Rising foreclosures on existing homes are complicating the  builders' efforts to bring supply back down to meet sluggish demand. Housing  starts fell 11% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 965,000 in July, 2008.It  marked the lowest level for housing starts in 17 years. June's starts were  revised higher to a 1.084 million annual pace. Housing starts are down 29.6% in  the past year.Among earning news, Home Depot stock slipped almost 4%  after the company reported drop in second quarter profit. Target too reported  y-o-y drop in quarterly earnings but still met investor  expectations.Barring HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank, all the Indian ADRs ended  in the red today. Satyam was the biggest loser shedding 3.2%. HDFC Bank and  ICICI Bank marginally gained 0.1% and 0.01% respectively.At the crude  market on Tuesday, crude oil rose more than $1 a barrel as a weakening dollar  prompted investors to purchase commodities as an inflation hedge. Crude oil for  September delivery rose $1.66 (1.5%) to settle at $114.53 a barrel.At  the currency markets on Tuesday, the dollar index, which tracks the greenback  against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, was at 76.74, down from  77.070. It climbed as high as 77.41 earlier. The dollar weakened in the face of  weak economic data.Trading volumes remained light, with 1 billion shares  exchanging hands on the New York Stock Exchange and 712 million shares trading  on the Nasdaq stock market.For tomorrow, the day is quite light in terms  of economic reports and earning reports. The weekly crude inventory report from  the Energy Department is the main and only economic report expected for the  day. 
