Cardiff de Alejo Garcia, of Financial News, reports: Merrill Lynch sued Deutsche Bank and a former employee over the hiring of former Merrill Lynch Treasurer Eric Heaton and 11 other bankers, accusing them of breach of contract and misappropriating trade secrets. The suit says the German bank &#8220;conducted a carefully orchestrated plot&#8221; to take the team of financial institutions group bankers a month ago. Deutsche Bank hired 12 members of Merrills financial institutions group on Feb. 3, when they all resigned on the same day. &#8220;We believe these mass resignations were part of a carefully orchestrated plot by Deutsche Bank to raid a key Merrill Lynch business unit in violation of Merrills trade secret and fiduciary rights and to encourage employees with ongoing obligations and common law duties to Merrill Lynch to breach them and leave,&#8221; a Merrill Lynch spokeswoman said in a statement.  A spokesman for Deutsche Bank said the German bank wouldn&#8217;t comment on the allegations at this time. The complaint was filed Tuesday with the New York State Supreme Court. Among other charges, Merrill alleged that Eric Heaton, formerly Merrill Lynch&#8217;s treasurer, broke a covenant that was part of his employment contract by not giving six months notice of his resignation. The lawsuit names Heaton as a defendant, claiming Deutsche Bank and Heaton have made it clear Heaton won&#8217;t fully honor an obligation that he provide six-month notice of his resignation to Merrill Lynch. The Merrill statement said the bank also believed Heaton &#8221; had a role in persuading and encouraging others to leave Merrill Lynch and join Deutsche Bank in violation of his duty of loyalty to Merrill Lynch.&#8221;  According to the complaint, nine of the dozen Merrill employees had contracts precluding them from soliciting co-employees to leave. &#8220;These resignations occurred in rapid-fire sequence, were carefully orchestrated, and clearly were part of a plot by Deutsche Bank to raid a key and very profitable Merrill Lynch business unit, the Financial Institutions Group,&#8221; the complaint states. &#8220;It is readily apparent that Deutsche Bank conspired with one or more of Merrill Lynchs departing employees to violate Merrill Lynchs contract, trade secret, and fiduciary rights before any of these employees had given notice of their resignations.&#8221; In addition to the team of 12, Deutsche Bank has hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch&#8217;s head of French investment banking business along with a group of senior colleagues. Marc Pandraud, head of French and Benelux corporate and investment banking at BofA Merrill Lynch, has joined Deutsche as chief country officer for France along with three other senior Paris-based bankers from the US bank.        
