AIG reported a loss of $100bn for 2008. That reinforced the importance of the refusal of the Fed to tell us who is being made whole on their transactions with AIG, a question even Republicans want answered. That loss number is in some part the result of a major change in its accounting treatment of its bond portfolio in 2008. It isnt at all obvious how much it lost from operations as opposed to accounting changes. The names and numbers are leaking out. The Wall Street Journal has a list of U.S. and foreign financial institutions that got about $50 billion since the money faucet opened last September. Heres a list of names and a couple of numbers, including a few from a Scare Document prepared by AIG to explain to the Treasury why it must throw more money into the giant money pit AIG has become.  Goldman Sachs ($6bn)   Deutsche Bank ($6bn to a German bank with a strong US presence)   Merrill Lynch   Socit Gnrale   Calyon (a French bank)   Barclays (a British bank with a strong US presence)   Rabobank (a Dutch bank which supports a major professional bike team)   Danske (a Danish bank)   HSBC (a Scottish bank)   Royal Bank of Scotland   Banco Santander (a Spanish bank)   Morgan Stanley   Wachovia   Bank of America   Lloyds Banking Group   BNP Paribas (a French Bank)   Credit Logement (a French bank which guarantees home loans)   The World Bank, and the International Finance Corporation, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development   European Investment Bank   The Toronto Globe and Mail says the Bank of Montreal was a customer. Danske Bank put out a press release saying that it had not received any payoffs on its credit default swaps, which covers about 1/3 of its Danish mortgage portfolio, but it has $200mn in collateral. No one else wants to comment.  The WSJ says that these payments account for $50bn of the huge bailout. Thats less than a third of the money the WSJ says we have dumped into AIG. We can see some of this money in Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III. These involved two loans totaling $43.8bn. That gets us to about $94bn. There are contradictory numbers for the total amount disappeared by AIG, with the WSJ at the top with $173bn, which, if true, means there is still $79bn unaccounted for.   In the absence of information, it would be irresponsible not to speculate, so here goes. The WSJ uses the word "paid to describe the $50bn. That contrasts with the idea of posting collateral. The Danske Bank press release treats the collateral and payment issues separately. So, some of the money has gone to post collateral, including the $200mn to Danske Bank. But, heres the real sink hole. The AIG 10-k tells us about the gigantic losses incurred by the company in 2008. Most of that loss came from recognizing losses on securities. AIG recognized net capital losses of $55.5bn on its consolidated investment portfolio. (P. 194) It also recorded unrealized market valuation losses on its super senior credit default swap portfolio of $28.6bn. This totals about 85% of the total loss. These losses are found in all of AIGs business segments. For example, the life insurance and retirement segment incurred $44.3bn in realized capital loss.  None of this came from actual transactions. AIG values securities based on its intent to hold them. For bonds, if it plans to hold them to maturity, it values them at amortized cost. If it plans to sell them, it values them at fair value, probably based on market prices. From page 208 of the 10-K:  During 2008, AIG determined that it no longer had the positive intent to continue to hold any of its bonds until maturity. All positions previously classified as held to maturity were determined to be available for sale.  A big chunk of the Scare Document is devoted to explaining the problems that would arise if the insurance companies failed or were impaired in some way. So, theres another place for the money. It may have been used to shore up the insurance company subsidiaries. Or, the losses may have been recognized on paper as a way of pressuring the Treasury to leave the money faucet open. That would benefit all of AIGs counterparties, including those on the List of Beneficiaries above. More backdoor financing for banks that are lobbying for it at our expense. Share 
