Supporter of a moratorium on foreclosures in Michigan standing outside a home that exploded on Lee Place near Woodrow Wilson on Detrot's west side, May 5, 2008. The home had been foreclosed. (Photo: Alan Pollock).Originally uploaded by Pan-African News Wire File PhotosUS housing plan to be revealedBy Saskia Scholtes and Alan Rappeport in New York and Sarah OConnor in Washington March 3 2009 23:46The US Treasury is poised on Wednesday to unveil the details of Barack Obamas plan to help financially stretched homeowners amid concerns that the delay in announcing a market-wide response to the housing crisis has made the problem worse.The $275bn (219bn, 196bn) plan to help homeowners in financial difficulty avoid foreclosure is seen as an essential piece of the administrations economic recovery efforts.Past attempts to tackle foreclosures have included a shifting array of progammes - involving the Treasury, government-sponsored housing companies and banks - that offered help for narrowly defined categories of borrowers, making it difficult to implement effectively.Lenders and servicers, who collect mortgage payments, are hopeful the administration will produce a comprehensive plan for easing the crisis, which they say has worsened, in part, because struggling borrowers have held out for a better bail-out from the government.But while the industry has publicly applauded the administrations efforts to design a comprehensive programme, some in the sector have expressed concerns that it could provide too many concessions for some borrowers, while doing too little for some of the most troubled parts of the market.The plan, announced in broad-brush terms two weeks ago, has three components.It will provide increased funding to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-run mortgage agencies, to expand their mortgage lending. It will also provide low-cost refinancing for 4m-5m homeowners who are up to date on their agency-issued mortgages, but are unable to refinance because falling house prices have eroded their home equity. These two elements will be relatively simple to implement, as Fannie and Freddie are increasingly deployed as agents of the governments housing policy.The third component of the plan will provide $75bn of subsidies for modifications to home loans owned by banks and investors. This effort will provide mortgage servicers with incentive payments to modify loans, and borrowers with inducements to keep up with their payments after modification.It will also expand earlier efforts to tackle foreclosures by making some borrowers eligible for changes to their home loans, even if they are still up to date on their mortgage payments.It is this component of the plan that worries servicers.One concern is that servicers who respond to government incentive payments could be exposed to legal risk from disgruntled investors who bought securities backed by mortgages. These investors could claim that servicers eased the terms of mortgages to collect the government payment rather than because a modification was in the investors best interest, lawyers and restructuring experts said.Servicers say they expect Wednesdays plan details to specify a standard way for them to quantify the cost of a modification versus a foreclosure.Congress has also attempted to tackle such questions to aggressively modify troubled loans with a separate housing bill. This would allow bankruptcy courts to change the terms of home loans and provide mortgage servicers with legal cover for modifying home loans according to government standards.The bill was expected to face a vote in the House on Thursday after moderate Democrats demanded provisions to narrow its scope to ensure filing for bankruptcy remained a last resort.Meanwhile, an index of pending home sales plunged more than twice as much as expected to a record low in January. The data, released by the National Association of Realtors on Tuesday, which reflect deals that have been signed but not completed, showed that pending home sales fell by 7.7 per cent during the month and were off 6.4 per cent on the yearhttp://www.ft.com/recessionCopyright The Financial Times Limited 2009AIG still facing huge credit lossesBy Henny Sender in New York March 3 2009 22:03AIG, the insurer controlled by the US government, still faces billions of dollars in potential losses on credit guarantees it provided for complex subprime mortgage securities, in spite of its $62bn fourth-quarter loss and regulatory efforts to unwind its holdings, company filings show.The difficulties the authorities face in dealing with AIG spilled into the open on Tuesday as Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, expressed anger with the company in an appearance before the Senate budget committee.If there is a single episode in this entire 18 months that has made me more angry, I cant think of one other than AIG, he said. There was no oversight of the financial products division. This was a hedge fund basically that was attached to a large and stable insurance company. The crisis at AIG stemmed from its activities in the market for credit default swaps  derivatives that function as debt insurance. AIG was particularly active in providing guarantees for securities known as collateralised debt obligations, bonds backed by debts such as subprime mortgages.AIG ran into trouble when its credit rating was downgraded and the value of the CDOs it insured fell, which forced it to post tens of billions of dollars in additional collateral with its counterparties. This process exhausted its resources and prompted the government rescue of the company in September.In November, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York set up a limited liability company called Maiden Lane III  backed by $5bn from AIG and borrowings of up to $30bn from the Fed  to resolve the situation. The idea was that Maiden Lane III would buy CDOs from AIGs counterparties and then tear up the credit insurance issued by AIG.AIG filings this week show that the company retains $12bn in exposure to credit insurance on positions mostly involving subprime mortgages. As of February 18, AIG could have to pay counterparties up to $8bn on these positions, the filing showed. In the days after the creation of Maiden Lane III, AIG and the Fed approached about 20 counterparties with an offer to buy CDOs. By the end of the year, Maiden Lane III had paid nearly $30bn for CDOs with a face value of $62bn, AIG said. AIG paid $32.5bn to terminate the credit insurance on the CDOs, recognising a 2008 loss of $21bn.Counterparties received 100 cents on the dollar for the CDOs, but the prices paid by Maiden Lane III suggested that the CDOs were worth 47 cents on the dollar, said a person familiar with the matter.On Monday AIG reported a $61.7bn loss and confirmed that it would give the US government a stake in its two biggest divisions as part of a fresh $30bn rescue.Additional reporting by Alan Beattie in WashingtonCopyright The Financial Times Limited 2009To nationalise or not  that is the questionBy Martin WolfMarch 3 2009 19:52Lindsey Graham, the Republican senator, Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the US Federal Reserve, and James Baker, Ronald Reagans second Treasury secretary, are in favour. Ben Bernanke, current Fed chairman, and an administration of liberal Democrats are against. What is dividing them? Nationalisation is the answer. In 1978, Alfred Kahn, an adviser on inflation to President Jimmy Carter, used the word depression. So angry was the president that Mr Kahn started to call it banana instead. But the recession Mr Kahn foretold happened all the same. The same may well happen with nationalisation. Indeed, it already has: how else is one to describe the actions of the federal government in relation to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, AIG and increasingly Citigroup? Is nationalisation not already the big financial banana?Much of the debate is semantic. But underneath it are at least two big issues. Who bears losses? How does one best restructure banks? Banks are us. Often the debate is conducted as if they can be punished at no cost to ordinary people. But if they have made losses, someone has to bear them. In effect, the decision has been to make taxpayers bear losses that should fall on creditors. Some argue that shareholders should be rescued, too. But, rightly, this has not happened: share prices have indeed collapsed. That is what shareholders are for. Yet the overwhelming bulk of banking assets are financed through borrowing, not equity. Thus the decision to keep creditors whole has huge implications. If we accept Mr Bernankes definition of nationalisation as a decision to wipe out private shareholders, we can call this activity socialisation. What are its pros and cons?The biggest cons are two. First, loss-socialisation lowers the funding costs of mega-banks, thereby selectively subsidising their balance sheets. This, in turn, exacerbates the too big to fail problem. Second, it leaves shareholders with an option on the upside and, at current market values, next to no risk on the downside. That will motivate going for broke. So loss-socialisation increases the need to control management. The four biggest US commercial banks  JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America and Wells Fargo  possess 64 per cent of the assets of US commercial banks. If creditors of these businesses cannot suffer significant losses, this is not much of a market economy.The pro of partial socialisation is that it eliminates the risk of another panic among creditors or spillovers on to investors in the liabilities of banks, such as insurance and pension funds. Since bank bonds are a quarter of US investment-grade corporate bonds, the risk of panic is real. In the aftermath of the Lehman debacle, the decision appears to be that the only alternative to disorderly bankruptcy is none at all. This is frightening. The second big issue is how to restructure banks. One point i...
