Former Merrill Lynch chief John Thain testified Tuesday for the second time in less than a week about bonuses paid to Merrill employees before the company was sold to Bank of America.  Details of his comments werent disclosed, but it was expected the deposition with the New York attorney generals office would center around individual bonuses Merrill paid to employees.  The New York Daily News, citing a source familiar with the matter, reported that Mr. Thain remained at the offices of New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo for more than three hours, answering all the investigators questions about which employees got last-minute payouts. Mr. Thains testimony comes a day after Mr. Cuomo  in the states Supreme Court compelling Mr. Thain to divulge details about individual bonuses, which he declined to give during an initial deposition Thursday. That motion was granted Monday afternoon, opening up Thain for the second round of questioning.  Mr. Thain declined to give details about individual bonuses during the deposition Thursday because he said he was instructed not to by Bank of America. Mr. Thains attorney Andrew Levander also said Mr. Thain was worried BofA might sue him if he answered those questions.  The court ruled Monday to keep Thains testimony on individual bonuses confidential at the request of Bank of America, Mr. Levander said Monday night. The judge will hold a hearing next month to determine if details about individual bonuses should remain confidential, he added.  Mr. Cuomo has been investigating $3.6 billion in bonuses Merrill Lynch executives received less than a month before the company completed its sale to Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America, and whether investors were properly informed about Merrills finances. The payments came as New York-based Merrill was on the brink of reporting a more than $15 billion fourth-quarter loss and more than $27 billion in losses for the full year.  Earlier this month, Mr. Cuomo subpoenaed Bank of Americas chairman and chief executive Kenneth Lewis, as he investigates the timing of the bonuses. Last month, Mr. Cuomo subpoenaed Mr. Thain and Bank of Americas chief administrative officer, J. Steele Alphin.  When questioned about the Merrill bonuses during Congressional testimony Feb. 11, Mr. Lewis said he had very limited involvement in the decision making regarding the payments. Mr. Lewis said: We had no authority to tell them what to do to. Just urge them what to do. We did urge. Bank of America has also repeatedly said that Merrill Lynch was an independent company last year, and its board of directors had ultimate approval over how much to pay employees.  Mr. Lewis testified before a Congressional committee along with other banking executives whose firms have received funds from the government.  Last month, when news of the bonuses broke, Thain resigned from his new post as head of the wealth management division of the combined bank.  The initial reports of the bonuses came just days after Bank of America received an additional $20 billion from the government that it said it needed to help offset the losses it was absorbing from the Merrill acquisition. The additional support was provided to Bank of America as Mr. Lewis showed trepidation about completing the deal to acquire Merrill.  The government helped orchestrate the acquisition of Merrill by Bank of America over the same weekend in September that another investment bank, Lehman Brothers, went under, setting off the most intense period of the financial crisis.    
