NEW YORK: Bank of America's chief executive, Kenneth Lewis, told investors in September that he was pleased to acquire Merrill Lynch's 'world class' investment bank, but as losses there mount, he may just let that part of the business wither.  And now that the U.S. government has a taken a large stake of Bank of America, investment banking may become even less attractive. 'Regulatory requirements are going to dramatically reduce the amount of risk that Bank of America is allowed to take,' said Jaime Peters, an analyst at Morningstar in Chicago.  Risk-taking is central to proprietary trading and helped drive large profits at banks, including Merrill, in recent years. 'Since Bank of America is an at least partly nationalized entity, the risks and the capital required to operate a gigantic bulge-bracket bank may be viewed with disfavor by the largest stockholder - now Uncle Sam,' said George Ball, chairman of the Sanders Morris Harris Group in Houston, an investment firm with about $8.6 billion in assets. Bank of America - which paid more for Merrill than the bank's current entire market capitalization - is now more interested in wealth management, Merrill's other large business. Wealth management is less capital-intensive than investment banking because it does not involve lending to finance deals and companies.  And as Bank of America tries to recover after reporting its first quarterly loss in 17 years and taking $45 billion in government funds since October, the investment bank, where business is slowing, may be an easy target for cost-cutting.  The company said in December that it plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs - or as much as 11.4 percent of its work force, including former Merrill staff - over three years. 'They're making some fairly extensive cuts and in addition you would expect other businesses would bounce back quite a bit,' Peters said. Over the long term, she expects investment banking to contribute just 10 percent to 15 percent of the bank's revenues. That is less than half the 32 percent Bank of America had estimated in a September presentation to investors, based on figures from the first half of 2008. 'We are happy with the investment banking platform and people we acquired from Merrill Lynch,' said a Bank of America spokesman, Scott Silvestri. 'People from both former Merrill and former Bank of America have already worked together on a number of projects that will be quite lucrative to our company and we look forward to even greater opportunity as we formally put the platforms together.' The largest U.S. bank has dominated the debt and equity capital markets since it acquired Merrill. In a recent interview with CNBC, Lewis said that Bank of America had 'a pretty good January in terms of customer flows.' 'We continue to be very happy that we own Merrill Lynch,' Lewis said in the interview.  But analysts questioned the support that Bank of America executives have for investment banking.  Combined with the departure of key Merrill executives, including John Thain, the former chief executive, a dearth of support within Bank of America may lead to an exodus of talented executives, including some responsible for getting the bank to the top of the debt and equity capital markets, analysts said. 'I don't think there's going to be any overt expunging of the unit,' Ball said, 'but I think it may be a person-by-person repotting into boutique firms or other companies.'
