WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is getting ready to conduct stress tests on the biggest U.S. banks to judge whether they can hold up if the recession were to worsen.  Banking regulators plan to scrutinize the financial conditions of Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and more than a dozen other institutions that have received billions from the Treasury Department's US$700 billion bailout pot.  The tests, expected to start on Wednesday, will help regulators decide whether the banks have sufficient capital  and the right mix of it  to withstand any additional shocks to the economy over the next two years.  The tests also will help regulators decide whether the banks may need additional assistance so that they can carry out the critical mission of boosting lending to customers, a key ingredient to the economic turnaround.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke returns to Capitol Hill Wednesday for the second straight day. This time he will appear before the House Financial Services Committee where he is likely to get tough questions about the government's controversial bank-rescue efforts.  Testifying before a Senate panel on Tuesday, Bernanke calmed investor fears that the government was heading down a path of nationalizing troubled banks and Wall Street rallied a day after hitting 12-year lows.  We've always worked with banks to make sure that they're healthy and stable, and we're going to work with them. I don't see any reason to destroy the franchise value or to create the huge legal uncertainties of trying to formally nationalize the bank when it just isn't necessary, Bernanke told senators on Tuesday.  The outcome of the stress test is not going to be fail or pass, added Bernanke, whose agency is the primary regulator for many of the country's largest banks. The outcome of the stress test is, how much capital does this bank need in order to meet the credit needs of borrowers in our economy?  Critics worry the government's rescue actions have the potential to put ever-more taxpayers' dollars at risk and encourage moral hazard, where companies feel more comfortable making high-stakes gambles because the government will bail them out.  Subscribe to The China Post and save 25%. Click here  Write a Comment  Enter your comments - 3000 characters max  Type in image code  Receive China Post promos Respond to this email  
