Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Bank of America Corp. (BAC) reversed course on a controversial decision to defer 2008 bonus payments for some investment banking staff. The bank's change of plan is designed to limit discontent amid a rocky integration with newly acquired Merrill Lynch.  The Charlotte-based bank is telling some employees in various businesses across the bank that a portion of their bonuses will be paid out over six quarters. That change significantly shortens a previous plan that would have deferred bonus payments to some employees over a period of time that stretched through 2012.  Employees earning bonuses of more than $50,000 were originally told their bonus pay would be spread out over four years becauseof the bank's financial problems during the credit crisis. However, frustrations within the bank over the payment scheme soared when Merrill Lynch handed out bonuses in full last December - just days before BofA closed its acquisition.  Workers in some groups inside the bank, mostly in investment banking and capital markets, were told this week about the change in plans, according to people inside the bank.  It wasn't known how many groups, or employees, would be affected.  'The annual incentive award amounts have not been increased,' said Scott Silvestri, a BofA spokesman. 'We are simply shortening the vesting schedule for a portion of the award to 18 months.'  The move comes as New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo is investigating Merrill's decision to accelerate the payment of nearly $4 billion in bonuses. He said on Wednesday that the brokerage's top four bonus recipients received a combined $121 million before the deal closed on Jan. 1.  Cuomo has subpoenaed the testimony of former Merrill Lynch Chief Executive John Thain and Bank of America Chief Administrative Officer J. Steele Alphin on the matter. Cuomo said he plans to seek the testimony of other top executives at the firms, especially because bonuses were paid while the banks received bailout money.  Bank of America has received $45 billion in capital from the government, and guarantees to protect the bank against losses on tens of billions of dollars in risky assets. The bonuses have also drawn the ire of Capitol Hill. On Wednesday, the House Financial Services Committee grilled the heads of the nation's eight biggest banks about executive compensation and the banks' expectations of paying the government back.  -By Joe Bel Bruno, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4047; joe.belbruno@ dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 02-12-09 1811ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc.  
