Nearly 700 Merrill employees received a bonus of $1 million or more.    Weeks before it announced a $15 billion loss and before its new owner, Bank of America, asked for US government aid, Merrill Lynch paid $121 million in bonuses to four of its employees, New Yorks attorney general said in a letter to Congressman Barney Frank.  In the letter to Frank, who is chairman of the US House Committee on Financial Services, Andrew Cuomo noted that 696 Merrill employees received a bonus of $1 million or more. According to the New York State Attorney General, Merrill secretly and prematurely awarded a total of about $3.6 billion worth of bonuses.  A spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch referred calls for comment on the letter to Bank of America. In a prepared statement, BofA noted that Merrill was an independent company last year and its management proposed the incentives. Also, Bank of America noted in its statement, a Merrill compensation committee of their board approved incentives.  In the prepared statement, Bank of America said it 'did urge the bonuses be reduced, including those at the high end. Although we had a right of consultation, it was their ultimate decision to make. In addition, a substantial amount of the Merrill bonuses were contractually guaranteed.'  On Jan. 16, Merrill announced that it lost $15.3 billion in the fourth quarter and $27 billion for the year. That same day, Bank of America, which bought Merrill last September, announced that the US government would shore up the deal with $20 billion. Another $188 billion was promised by the US government as protection against further losses in Merrills portfolio.  Cuomo said in his Feb. 10 letter to Frank that his office on Oct. 29 asked for details about Merrills employee bonuses. According to the letter, on Nov. 5 Merrill responded by saying that bonuses would be based on performance and retention needs. Merrill did not provide my office with any details as to the bonus pool, claiming such details had not been determined, according to Cuomos letter.  Cuomo added in his correspondence: in a surprising fit of corporate irresponsibility, it appears that, instead of disclosing their bonus plan in a transparent way as requested by my office, Merrill Lynch secretly moved up the planned day to allocate bonuses and then richly rewarded their failed executives. Merrill Lynch had never before awarded bonuses at such an early date and this timetable allowed Merrill to dole out huge bonuses ahead of their awful fourth quarter earnings announcement,  Cuomo says in his correspondence. One disturbing question that must be answered is whether Merrill Lynch and Bank of America timed the bonuses in such a way as to force taxpayers to pay for them through the deal funding.  
