DEBTORS PRISM But slight decline in loans in Q4 due mostly to lack of demand from corporate customers  February 18, 2009 3:53 PM ET In its first monthly report outlining the lending activities of banks receiving federal money, the Treasury Department found that lending to corporations among the top 20 recipients of funds fell-if only slightly- from October through December 2008. Over those three months, corporate loan balances declined, with a median change of a 1% decrease. Ten banks did increase their loan balances in that time, however. The Treasury said the driver of the overall decline was "softening loan demand, particularly by smaller businesses, as noted by several banks." Exactly how financial institutions have been using the hundreds of billions of dollars in bailout money has been a hot button issue, one that brought a number of Wall Street CEOs in front of the House Financial Services Committee earlier this month. Among the chief executives insisting their companies were actively lending were J.P. Morgan Chase's Jamie Dimon, Bank of America's Ken Lewis, Morgan Stanley's John Mack and Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs. Treasury data showed Bank of America made the most new commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) commitments over the three months, with $49 billion, followed by J.P. Morgan Chase, with $48.5 billion. Wells Fargo made $17.6 billion in new commitments and Fifth Third Bank made $11.8 billion, the third and fourth most. Findings showed that, in general, lending activity decreased from October to November and then picked back up from November to December. Several banks said corporate lending increased in December due "to diminished borrower access to other debt markets such as the commercial paper market, which effectively shut down in October 2008 due to the credit crisis." Corporate borrowers were then forced to increase their relative use of bank debt to replace the funding, the Treasury said. The Treasury's findings were generally consistent with those of the Federal Reserve's January survey of senior loan officers, in which banks reported a further weakening of demand for C&amp;I loans in the fourth quarter 2008. Most of the surveyed banks said the drop was due to a decline in customers' needs to finance plant and equipment investments, mergers and acquisitions, inventories, and customer accounts receivable. The Treasury's report tracked a variety of lending categories, including first mortgages, home equity lines of credit, C&amp;I loans and commercial real estate lending. From October through December, residential mortgage balances were essentially flat, while credit card borrowing increased an average of 2%. Write to Matthew Quinn at mquinn@financialweek.com. Or write to the editors at fw_editor@financialweek.com.
