The new condition appears to limit bonuses for bankers at firms who receive US government aid to a maximum of one-third of their base salary. And fears are growing that the end result will be that either bankers will be more inclined to go work for non-US firms, or that US firms participating in any bailout will have to significantly ramp up the base salaries they pay staff to get around this rule. Small wonder that firms like JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are already looking at ways to return the tranche of TARP funding they were asked to take last year.  And over in the UK, Prime Minister Gordon Brown has vowed that he will find a way to ensure that executives who bagged huge bonuses, yet drove their firms into the ground, would be legally required to return them. But many feel that this is simply political grandstanding, as Tory leader David Cameron has now also called for a bonus cap at bailed-out UK banks of just $2,900 per annum. But, at the moment, both Brown and his Euro-counterparts are not planning to follow the US and impose executive pay and banker bonus caps.  In the meantime, Reuters reports that North Caroline's Attorney General is also up in arms about those bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch staff in the fourth-quarter. Roy Cooper said in a letter to Bank of America (now the new owner of Merrill Lynch): 'I am appalled that 2008 bonuses would be distributed, given the current circumstances. I expect an explanation from the board as to the appropriateness of any bonuses while public money (BofA has now bagged $45bn) is being provided to the bank'.  And The Wall Street Journal reports that Morgan Stanley and Citigroup are thought to be preparing to pay out up to $3bn in retention bonuses to many of the 20,000-odd brokers who will come together for their new joint venture financial advisory unit.  Bloomberg is also reporting that Deutsche Bank is to stagger payments of much of its 2008 bonuses, paying out monies in deferred equity over a number of years. And UBS is thought to be trying to look at ways of helping out 'cash-strapped' bankers, who have lost out due to the 80% fall in the 2008 investment banking bonus pot. The firm is thought to be looking at offering loans against deferred equity, and the early distribution of stock awarded in previous years.  Finally, staff at JPMorgan's investment banking unit are thought to be a little miffed about the size of their 2008 bonuses. And the folks who might have been most badly affected are ex-Bear Stearns professionals, who are used to bigger payouts, and are now having to get used to a new world in which bonuses are up to 70% less.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend. 
