NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- In its statement Wednesday on stress testing banks, the Obama administration appeared very reluctant to nationalize large troubled banks, or even own large common-share stakes in them.  Fears that the U.S. government will soon seize large troubled banks, or otherwise take large ownership stakes in them, have gripped the markets for weeks as investors waited for new details about the government's intentions. Earlier this week, The Wall Street Journal reported that regulators were holding talks with Citigroup Inc. (C) that could wind up giving the government 40% ownership in the bank, which is dire need of common equity.  In new plans released Wednesday, U.S. banking regulators, led by the Treasury, said they would be willing to purchase common shares in large banks that they deem to need more capital. But the plans included a multitude of provisions, including a promise not to exercise voting rights on common shares, that suggested the government is keenly interested to avoid owning common shares. 'I think they're trying to get away from nationalization at any cost,' said Nancy Bush  , a bank analyst and founder of NAB Research LLC.  Shares in large banks rallied on the plan's unveiling. The shares of Bank of America Corp. (BAC) closed up 9% at $5.16.. The shares of Citigroup finished the day down 3% at $2.52 after falling sharply off gains in the last fifteen minutes of trading.  The U.S. government now plans to give fresh capital to large hobbled banks by purchasing preferred shares that would convert to common shares automatically after seven years. Such a lengthy provision gives any bank receiving that capital more than half a decade to return to health, raise new money from private investors and repay the government.  And even if the Treasury's preferred shares in a bank convert to common shares at some point in the future, the government said on Wednesday that it promises ' not to exercise voting power with respect to any shares of common stock.' The preferred shares could be converted to common shares earlier, on an as- needed basis, at the request of either the bank or the government. Citigroup, rather than the government, was said to request the current talks about the government purchasing common shares in the bank.  What's more, if the Treasury's pending 'stress tests' reveal that a bank needs more capital, it will have six months to raise that capital from private investors. Under current conditions, such a capital raise is considered all but impossible, since private investors largely remain fearful of investing in banks.  The government nonetheless included the six-month clause, likely in an effort to give banks every fighting chance at avoid taking more capital from the government.  Treasury Secretary   Timothy Geithner  first released an outline of his plans earlier this month, saying the government would 'stress test' the largest 19 banks to determine which are likely to need more capital if the economy performs worse than expected. But Geithner provided few details about those stress tests, spooking investors, who said they were left waiting.  The Treasury said Wednesday that it will test banks under more dire theoretical circumstances, including an eventual unemployment rate of 10.3% and a 4% annual decline in the nation's gross domestic product. It said it could stress test banks smaller than the top 19, but only at their request.  Significantly, the Treasury's description of its stress test for the largest 19 banks notably excludes an explicit scenario of rising interest rates, said   Joe Mason  , a finance professor at LSU who is scheduled to testify before Congress Thursday.  That's a real concern, he said, because 'from zero, they can only go one way.' With many economists predicting an eventual spike in inflation on the heels of heavy government spending, the specter of rising interest rates could eventually be as important to banks as GDP growth or even unemployment.   -By   Marshall Eckblad  , Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4306; marshall.eckblad@ dowjones.com
