NEW YORK -- Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Lewis said the lender won't be nationalized and doesn't need more capital support from the government.  The idea of nationalizing the bank wasn't even a 'remote possibility,' Mr. Lewis said in an interview Friday on CNBC television. He said 'categorically' that the company won't go back a third time for U.S. aid and that he 'has the leeway' to manage the bank independently of the U.S.  Bank of America has slumped about 58% this year, with the descent gaining momentum this week on speculation that the U.S. government might seize the company. The U.S. already agreed to inject US$45-billion into the company and protect the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank from losses on US$118-billion of loans and securities after it bought Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Investors have pressed the board to replace Mr. Lewis, the CEO since 2001, after his acquisitions of Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch, with some saying he agreed to pay too much. Mr. Lewis said it's possible to 'make a case' that a company overpaid for any acquisition done in the past 18 months.  The stock rose 27% to US$6.17 at 12:51 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Buying Merrill Lynch makes strategic sense for Bank of America even after the securities firm lost US$15.3-billion in the fourth quarter, Mr. Lewis said. 'It's going to be a good acquisition,' he said. While the bank considered backing out of the Merrill purchase in mid-December when it realized the extent of the fourth-quarter losses, federal regulators pressed for the deal's completion, Mr. Lewis said. Scuttling the transaction would have caused too much harm to the company and the country, Mr. Lewis said.  Mr. Lewis, 61, defended Bank of America's review of Merrill's finances, noting its mistake was underestimating the credit- market meltdown during the fourth quarter.  Firing former Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain is 'ancient history,' Mr. Lewis said. Mr. Thain, 53, left his post as head of Bank of America's investment banking and wealth-management units on Jan. 22. 'I'm sorry it happened. It's never pleasant.' With much of Merrill's senior leadership departed, Mr. Lewis said it's better for officials of acquired companies to leave sooner rather than later. ''Nobody executes better than we do. This plays to our strength,' he said. Mr. Lewis urged Congress to expand its efforts to boost the economy with more money aimed at actions providing immediate impact. 'I'd expect the first quarter to be worse than the fourth quarter,' he said, with little improvement likely until August or later. Lower interest rates are boosting the company's mortgage business as more borrowers refinance their homes, he said. While the bank is cutting more than 35,000 jobs because of the weaker economy and redundancies from its Merrill purchase, about 3,000 jobs have been added in mortgage operations to handle soaring demand, Mr. Lewis said. Bloomberg.com
