(RTTNews) - Bank of America Corporation (BAC) Chairman and Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis was reportedly issued a subpoena by New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, several media outlets said Thursday. Cuomo is heading an investigation into whether the bank withheld information from investors in violation of state law.  Lewis reportedly received the subpoena late last week, with regard to the investigation into the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank's purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. on January 1.  Citing people familiar with the matter, a report in the Wall Street Journal said the office of the Attorney General is exploring whether investors were misled about the depth of Merrill's losses in late 2008.   In addition, the investigation is also trying to determine whether details of the bonuses to Merrill employees, contained in a nonpublic document, should have been disclosed to investors.  Last week, Cuomo authored a letter to Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Barney Frank D-Mass., questioning the decisions made by Merrill Lynch with regard to distribution of bonuses despite a large quarterly loss.'Merrill Lynch's decision to secretly and prematurely award approximately $3.6 billion in bonuses, and Bank of America's apparent complicity in it, raise serious and disturbing questions,' Cuomo wrote.The bonuses were reported at minimum of $1 million each to 696 employees, for a total of $3.6 billion. The top four employees reportedly received a combined $121 million between them, with the next four splitting $62 million, and the next six received $66 million, he said, calling it a 'surprising fit of corporate irresponsibility.' 'By December 8, 2008, Merrill and presumably Bank of America must have been aware that the fourth quarter and yearly earnings results were disastrous,' said Cuomo.On January 16, the companies announced that in the fourth quarter alone Merrill Lynch lost $15.31 billion and more than $27 billion for the year.  Bank of America later announced that the federal government would invest $20 billion in the deal and provide $188 billion in protection against further losses primarily from the Merrill Lynch portfolio.  Cuomo said that he plans to question executive about whether Merrill Lynch and Bank of America timed the bonuses in such a way as to force taxpayers to pay for them through the TARP funding given to Bank of America.'Merrill Lynch had never before awarded bonuses at such an early date and this timetable allowed Merrill to dole out huge bonuses ahead of their awful fourth quarter earnings announcement and before the planned takeover of Merrill by Bank of America.'The WSJ report said investigators also took testimony from former Merrill chief executive officer John Thain all day on Thursday about the nature of some $4 billion in bonuses to employees. The investigators wanted to know why the September merger agreement contained a nonpublic attachment that outlined the maximum Merrill could pay.  Continued... 
