MARKETS-GLOBAL (WRAPUP 6): * Global stocks rally as economic data boosts sentiment  * Oil slides as U.S. crude inventories hit 16-year high  * Bonds flat to down as stock gains undercut safety bid  * Dollar rises vs euro on expectations ECB to cut rates  (Adds close of U.S. markets)  NEW YORK (Reuters) - Global stocks rallied Wednesday after U.S. home sales and manufacturing data provided a bit of hope that a deep recession is moderating, but oil fell as 16-year highs in U.S. crude inventories undercut that sentiment.  The U.S. dollar rose against the euro on expectations the European Central Bank would cut interest rates but it was little changed against the yen as caution before a Group of 20 summit in London blunted news of more steep U.S. job losses.  Oil fell fell more than 4.0 percent at one point to below $48 before paring some losses on news of more bearish economic data and a surprising rise in U.S. crude inventories.  But prices for U.S. Treasuries were flat to slightly lower as optimism on Wall Street that the downturn could be easing weakened the bid for safe-haven U.S. government debt.  The private ADP survey showing nearly three-quarters of a million U.S. job losses in March was supportive for bonds but had little impact on debt or equity prices.  'The jobs numbers are pretty bad, but people have settled into accepting that reality,' said UBS  (nyse: UBS -  news  -  people ) currency strategist Brian Kim in Stamford, Connecticut.  Investors found glimmers of hope in other economic data Wednesday.  Factory activity in March shrank, but at a slower pace than the month before, while pending sales of existing homes rose modestly in February. However, the housing market remained weak as values continued to decline.  'Some economic releases have hinted that perhaps the economy is starting to form a bottom,' said Derrick Wulf, a fixed-income portfolio manager at Dwight Asset Management Co in Burlington, Vermont.  'Any signs of labor market stability would certainly be welcomed by the equity market and that should pressure Treasuries,' Wulf said.  Financial shares turned around following the manufacturing and homes data as investors bet an improvement in the economic outlook will boost financial activity.  JPMorgan Chase  (nyse: JPM -  news  -  people ) rose 5.9 percent to $28.14 while Bank of America  (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people ) gained 3.4 percent to $7.05.  The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 152.68 points, or 2.01 percent, at 7,761.60. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index rose 13.21 points, or 1.66 percent, at 811.08. The Nasdaq Composite Index added 23.01 points, or 1.51 percent, at 1,551.60.  In Europe, Barclays  (nyse: BCS -  news  -  people ) rose 6.1 percent, Credit Suisse  (nyse: CS -  news  -  people ) gained 5.9 percent and BNP Paribas  (other-otc: BNPQY.PK -  news  -  people ) added 5.5 percent. ING  (nyse: ING -  news  -  people ) rose 8.4 percent.  The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares closed 1.6 percent higher at 745.14 points.  Oil prices fell after the U.S. Energy  (nasdaq: USEG -  news  -  people ) Information Administration reported a 2.8 million barrel rise in crude oil inventories. Gasoline stockpiles increased by 2.2 million barrels, counter to forecasts of a 1.4 million-barrel decline.  'There is no indication in these numbers that the economy is strengthening. It looks like more of the same,' said Joseph Arsenio, managing director at Arsenio Capital Management in Larkspur, California.  U.S crude futures settled down $1.27 a barrel at $48.39, eroding Tuesday's 2.6 percent gain. London Brent crude settled down 79 cents at $48.44.  Jessica Hoversen, a currency analyst at MF Global in Chicago, called ADP 'a really bad number' that bodes ill for the government's more comprehensive jobs report Friday.  But she said the G20 meeting and an expected ECB interest rate cut Thursday 'will keep a lid' on price action.  The ECB is expected to cut interest rates to 1 percent on Thursday, when the central bank might possibly announce unconventional steps to boost economic growth. Markets are on alert for any sign officials  The dollar was flat against a basket of major currencies, with the U.S. Dollar Index break-even at 85.513.  The euro fell 0.15 percent at $1.323 from a previous session close of $1.3250. Against the yen, the dollar was down 0.26 percent at 98.58.  Spot gold prices rose $7.60, or 0.83 percent, to $924.75 an ounce. (Reporting by Leah Schnurr, Wanfeng Zhou, Ellen Freilich and Edward McAllister in New York and Emelia Sithole-Matarise in London and Peter Starck in Frankfurt; writing by Herbert Lash)  Copyright 2009 Reuters, Click for Restriction
