Jamo on the ball20/09/200810:35   It's good to see that David James has been keeping up to speed with events at his former club, while our visit to the Withdean Stadium already has a few players looking to get fit enough to face the likes of Robinho.Daily Mail&amp;quot;Pompey keeper James will reserve opinion on 34million man Robinho until after Eastlands clash&amp;quot;So, he comes from Brazil, played for Real Madrid, cost 34million and scored on his Manchester City debut. So what, says Portsmouth keeper David James, who will check out Robinho with his own eyes before committing himself to an opinion on the most expensive footballer to set foot in the Barclays Premier League. So David, do you know anything about Robinho? I know nothing about him.Is he the sort of footballer you like to watch? Dont know anything about him. Dont you watch much foreign football? No.Did you see his goal last week? The deflection? Yeah, I saw that. As a former Manchester City player, James hopes the spectacular investment from Abu Dhabis royal family will ensure a happy future for the clubs long-suffering supporters but he is reluctant to go overboard. One thing the Portsmouth keeper will admit ahead of his return to City is that the club never looked likely to lavish so much cash on one player when he was there. Strewth, anyone paying 34m was never going to happen anywhere until this guy turned up, said James. I think its good for football that youve got a guy prepared to put an enormous amount of his money in and doesnt have to borrow it. Ultimately you can only play 11players and no team has ever won every game. 'Therefore theres an opportunity to spoil the party. Brighton Argus&amp;quot;Albion star given Cup hope&amp;quot;Colin Hawkins has been told he could yet face Manchester City in Albions high-profile Carling Cup tie. The Irish defender starts his rehabilitation from hernia surgery this morning, just three days after being treated in Germany. Hawkins definitely misses this afternoons clash with Walsall, losing his ever-present status in the process. But Micky Adams is not yet willing to rule him out of Wednesdays cup tie with City. The Albion boss said: The operation went well and he starts jogging today. He had the operation on Wednesday so that is only three days. It was the timescale we expected. Ive sent other players from Coventry out there. Its new pioneering surgery. He will be jogging today, then pick up his training and could even be ready for the Man City game.         
