U.S. 2-Year Note Falls as Sale Draws Higher Yield Than Forecast  - Dec. 22 (Bloomberg) -- Two-year Treasury notes dropped for a second day as the government sold a record $38 billion of the securities at a higher yield than forecast.  While the 0.922 percent yield was the lowest on record since the Treasury began regular auctions of the securities in 1975, the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of eight firms that bid on the sale was for a yield of 0.912 percent. The bid- to-cover ratio, a gauge of demand, was 2.13, compared with an average of 2.25 at the last six auctions. The government will sell a record $28 billion in five-year notes tomorrow.  Its a lot of paper, said Jay Mueller, who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in Milwaukee. It makes you wonder who exactly is lining up out there to buy it.Washington Federal cuts dividend by 76% - Reuters.  Washington Federal Inc (WFSL) slashed its quarterly cash dividend by 76 percent on significantly higher credit costs, and said it expects to record a provision for loan losses of about $35 million in the first quarter.  The company, which is feeling the heat of the continued deterioration in the general economy and the housing market, also expects total non-performing assets to be about $300 million, or 2.43 percent of total assets, for the quarter ending Dec. 31.  "In our view, general economic conditions are more likely to worsen than to improve in the near-term," Chief Executive Roy Whitehead said in a statement.  (WFSL is down more than 20% on the news.  The company had increased their dividend for 25 consecutive years, but the last increase was more than a year ago, in July 2007, giving warning that something was amiss.)Escaping the Fear Effect - Roger Nusbaum on Greenfaucet.  "In a previous blog post of mine in which I commented that I believe that the S&amp;P 500 will not go as low as many people think and that I would buy a little stock at these levels if you built up cash and have not bought anything in the last couple of months. I was not saying the bear is over nor was I saying to get fully invested. This seemed like a fairly innocuous idea yet I got absolutely filleted in the comments. . . . The best single year in stock market history (well actually just as far back as the Stock Trader's Almanac goes) was 1934 with a 41.3% lift followed by a 27.9% gain in 1935. That was smack in the middle of the depression yet it was the best year ever. Think about that. Big moves come when no one expects. You can think the worst about everything if you are so inclined but no one should lose sight of the fact that the biggest moves come when no one expects (repeated for emphasis)."The Major Risks for 2009 - Paul Kedrosky on Seeking Alpha.  "What surprises lie ahead in 2009? Here is Merrill Lynch's David Rosenberg on the subject: 'We continue to believe that trade protectionism, competitive devaluations and military conflicts are the major risks for investors for 2009 . . . '  (Kedrosky would) add to David's risks sovereign defaults, especially in emerging markets; a potential banking crisis in smaller regional banks and thrifts in U.S.; a bursting of the Treasury bubble (admittedly not much of a surprise, and one that may not happen until 2010.)" Mr. Monopoly would add to the list: widespread civil unrest, such as we are seeing in Greece and Iceland, and an abrupt, parabolic surge in energy prices caused by supply disruption.ProShares Short-Term Capital Gains Distributions - Bespoke Investment Group.  "Owners of ProShares ETFs got a rude awakening this morning when short-term capital gains went ex for their ETFs.  And they were huge!  Usually funds give investors a little time to make a decision if they want to sell the fund before the ex-date, but ProShares announced the gains yesterday after the close.  This didn't allow owners to do anything but be forced to pay the short-term capital gains tax on their shares.  There's definitely a few traders out there who bought these as a short-term play in a taxable account in recent days that are now stuck paying big capital gains taxes on them.  Next time ProShares may want to give investors more time between the declaration and the ex-date."  Caveat emptor.Modified mortgages fail again 55% of the time - Bloomberg.com.  Mortgage modifications meant to keep borrowers from losing their homes fail within six months more than half the time, U.S. bank regulators said today.
