WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said American International Group will be obligated to pay the treasury department back for $165 million in bonuses.  Geithner wrote in a letter to congress that they would pay it all back.'We will impose on AIG a contractual commitment to pay the treasury from the operations of the company the amount of the retention awards just paid,' Geithner wrote. 'In addition, we will deduct from the $30 billion in assistance an amount equal to the amount of those payments.'The insurance giant has received about $170 billion in government bailout funds. It paid $165 million in retention awards on Friday.  Geithner has authority under the recently passed economic stimulus bill to review compensation paid to senior executives and to the next 20 most highly compensated employees of companies that have received federal assistance.  He disclosed the review of AIG bonuses in letters to congressional leaders Tuesday evening.  Meanwhile, the top two members of the Senate Finance Committee have announced a plan to levy steep excise taxes on future employee bonuses paid by companies that receive government bailout money.  The bill would impose a 35 percent excise tax on the companies paying the bonuses and a 35 percent excise tax on the employees receiving them.  Sources: Obama Learned Of Bonuses Last Week  Senior administration official sources say President Barack Obama learned only last Thursday that insurance giant AIG was paying employees millions of dollars in bonuses.  The White House has faced questions about when, exactly, Obama learned that AIG executives were going to get their bonus pay -- 73 of which got $1 million bonuses. New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said 11 people who don't even work for the bank anymore received bonuses.  Cuomo subpoenaed information from AIG on Monday, saying he wanted to determine whether the payments constitute fraud under state law. He said contracts written in March 2008 guaranteed employees 100 percent of their 2007 pay for 2008, regardless of their performance.  Officials for the first time on Tuesday night said Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told the White House last Thursday, and senior aides informed the president later that day.  Previous Stories: March 17, 2009:  March 17, 2009:  March 16, 2009:  March 15, 2009:  
