Banks are lending, and interest rates are low for well-qualified buyers who are looking to take advantage of lower prices on everything from consumer goods to cars and real estate.  Consumers with reasonable credit can still be approved  There's money in them thar banks.  And contrary to what's become a prevailing belief, it is available for lending, at least to consumers with reasonable credit. From everyday purchases such as electronics to cars and homes, the banks have the cash and want to make loans.  'That is what we're in business to do,' said Curt Hecker, chief executive officer of Intermountain Community Bank, parent to Panhandle State Bank. 'Our agenda is to make loans.'  Demand has been strong, and there is actually more money available than ever, he said.  Qualifications have been tightened, and 'more traditional practices have been deployed' in making real estate loans, Hecker said.  Appraisals have gone down, and that has made it more difficult to make loans on 80 percent of property values, especially in refinancing where equity has been lost to declining home values.  While credit score does play a significant role in determining creditworthiness, 'it is not the be all and end all,' Hecker said. 'We always get a credit report. There may have been medical problems that caused bankruptcy. We look at relationships and the reason and background behind that.'  Low interest rates have spurred applications for all types of loans, but when making consumer loans the bank looks beyond credit to character, and, if necessary, collateral.  While not a hard and fast rule, a 37 percent debt to income ratio is used as a guideline for making loans.  'That can vary,' Hecker said. 'Some wealthy people can't afford some loans. It's a judgment call.'  Time on the job can be part of qualifying for a loan. But a person who was recruited to a new job can be seen in a positive light because of that, he said.  'From the bank's perspective we want to see a primary source of repayment,' Hecker said.  Not just community banks but national institutions as well have funds available for loans.  'We have mortgage money available,' said Rick Barton, North Idaho region president for US Bank.  Interest rates range from just under 5 percent to around 5.5 percent, he said. Rates as low as 4.25 percent can be obtained by paying various origination and discount rate fees, and terms range from 10 to 30 years. Those apply to new mortgages and refinances, but a minimum credit score of 650 is required.  'It tells a story,' Barton said. 'We pay attention to the story it tells.'  Automobile loans for new and used vehicles are available for about 5 percent, along with lines of credit and loans on recreational vehicles, motorcycles, manufactured homes and other items.  'We have all types of consumer loan funds available,' Barton said.  US Bank looks at a debt to earnings ratio of 30 percent to 40 percent. While conventional home loans, which do not include government programs such as FHA and VA, are generally made at 80 percent of value, there are some exceptions.  A secondary loan can be acquired to cover part of the additional cost, but if the loan to value exceeds 80 percent private mortgage insurance will be required to cover any deficiency in value if the property goes back to the bank, Barton said.  FHA loans require only 3 percent down, and if all other qualifications are in place VA will loan up to 100 percent.  New purchases will take precedence over refinances, he said. Closing for purchases is around 60 days, while refinancing can take up to 90 days but has been going through quicker, Barton said.  'We have to wait for appraisals and other work,' he said.  While some banks have tightened lending practices, others have not.  'We have always been conservative,' said Sally Ellingsen, Sterling Savings Bank communications manager for North Idaho.  The bank has never strayed into subprime lending, she said, so qualifications have not changed.  Ellingsen said North Idaho is a relatively safe and stable market compared to many other areas of the country.  'We're in a lot better shape than most, economy-wise,' she said.     
