Those famous, and now oft-repeated words, 'We have nothing to fear but fear itself,' were not originally part of Franklin Roosevelt's first inaugural address. In the first draft, he planned to say, 'This is no occasion for soft-speaking or the rising of false hopes.' But that sounded too pessimistic, so he took it out.  But pessimism now redounds so deeply in the national dialogue that Americans must be forgiven if they find it hard to reject the fear that Roosevelt was determined to down-pedal. You can't ignore the tanking stock market, because it is the lead story of every day's news.  Investors fear that the billions we are pouring into failed financial institutions aren't working. Of course we do.  This week AIG, the giant insurance corporation, got its fourth infusion of federal bailout money, $30 billion, bringing the total to $160 billion since December. Where's the money going? The CEO of AIG came on television to say he hopes this is the last handout he'll need, but he can't be sure. All I could see in his eyes is that he'll be back.  Along with the bailout renewal it sought, AIG circulated a pamphlet to Washington decision-makers that made the case that AIG is too interconnected to fail, that it would set dominos falling all over the world, a chain of catastrophic defaults. But the company also said it couldn't really reveal the extent of this 'interconnectedness.' When we bail out AIG, to whom is the money trickling? Where is it pooling? We must now own enough of AIG that the public deserves to share in this secret.  Reading the newspapers every day, I know that we are coming off an unregulated 20-year credit binge, and we're left with toxic asset disease. I sought comfort by reading Warren Buffett's annual letter to his shareholders. Surely, this most successful of all American investors would have encouraging news. The phrases I waded through included these: 'life threatening problems,' 'paralyzing fear,' 'a freefall in business activity,' 'vicious negative feedback cycle.' By year's end, he said, 'Investors of all stripes were bloodied and confused, much as if they were small birds that had strayed into a badminton game.'  
