What words can describe the current situation? Fear Despair Disbelief.. Hopelessness? I am sure not everyone feels these feelings, but I would tend to believe a great many do. People are afraid of losing their jobs and with good reason. Many people are only a paycheck or two away from default. The mood of the country is surely down. Amplifying the mood has been all the expressed anger about bailing out banks and financial institutions that made poor decisions. Putting salt on the wound was the bonus-paying spree to the incompetents at insurance giant AIG and Fannie (FNM). Now billions of dollars are being promised to the auto industry. Where does it end? Will this really help the economy or is it another bailout where those who asked for bailouts came in their private jets?  Where is all this bailout money to come from other than running the printing presses which will eventually cause rampant inflation? This rampant inflation will be devastating to the economy. Theres less wealth to spread around now as trillions of dollars have evaporated with increasing speed in the deepening crisis. In housing alone, more than $5 trillion has vanished. Do you remember Joe the Plumber and Obamas confrontation with him? Do you remember Obamas statement, I think when you spread the wealth around, its good for everybody? It seems so far this has not been good for anybody, more so our grandchildren who will inherit a tremendous debt load unless the US dollar is devalued.  So far Obamas approval rating remains high, at 59%, but almost two thirds of the population thinks the country is on the wrong track, according to a poll commissioned by National Public Radio in mid-March. Bernanke spoke on 60 minutes that he was optimistic for the future of the US. That is refreshing when so many are not as optimistic. Jim Rogers and others have spoken about the unthinkable, Civil Unrest in the US. In November, an analysis published by the U.S. Army War Colleges Strategic Studies Institute listed unforeseen economic collapse as one of the possible causes of future widespread civil violence.  If someone had spoken this way a short year ago they would have been admitted to an asylum ward. It is truly unbelievable.  Just in Jan. and Feb. of this year, around 2.5 million Americans bought guns, a 26 percent increase over the same period in 2008. Gun sales increased immediately after Obama won the elections. The fear that he would tighten gun controls and the fear of social unrest have been stated as the reasons for such an increase in gun sales. In all reality, cant there be social unrest or rampant crime? An absolutely terrible economy can push people to their limits. Unemployment is raging. There is a new segment of the population the Newly Poor. In February alone, an average of 23,000 people a day lost their jobs. How many families has that affected? How many homes were lost? How will these people provide for their families?  The unbelievable is happening. Tent cities for the homeless have expanded outside a string of American cities, from Sacramento and Phoenix to Atlanta and Seattle, for people who are living the American dream in reverse. First they lose their jobs, then their health insurance, then their homes, then their hopes. The encampments are something out of Third World refugee camps.  Want to know how to make money? Try Smith&amp;Wesson (SWHC).  
