MUNCIE -- When Linda Strange's restaurant is going through lean times, she doesn't reward herself or her workers.  'My employees say, 'When you rise, we will too,'' said Strange, owner of Bird's Smokehouse Barbecue in Daleville.  So Strange had a strong reaction to news that insurance giant AIG gave $165 million in bonuses to its executives after receiving more than $170 billion in Federal Reserve bailout funds.  'I am appalled,' Strange said. 'I can't believe it.'  Strange's opinion was seconded by U.S. Rep Mike Pence, who said he was 'outraged' by the bonuses and approved of President Barack Obama's stated intentions to try to recover the money.  'I'll be supporting any effort to recover the funds,' Pence said Monday.  Not every local business figure reacted with offense.  'It's easy to be angry and say the financial products division deserves no retention bonuses because they caused this mess,' said Jeff Cheesman, CEO of Paragent, a local information technology company. 'On the other hand, there are still over half a trillion dollars worth of complicated swaps on their books and someone with specialized skills will need to navigate through the disposition of those assets.'  Obama on Monday noted that AIG had received 'substantial' amounts of federal funds and said he asked Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner 'to use that leverage and pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole.'  Economist Cecil Bohanon of Ball State University said the uproar over AIG's bailout-and-bonus created 'the ridiculous situation where the president of the United States is deciding whether executives in an insurance company should get bonuses.'  'He who pays the piper calls the tune,' Bohanon said. 'If government is paying the bills, government gets to call the shots. That's the dangerous part of government funds intermingling in private industry. We don't want insurance companies and banks run by the government.'  Pence -- who has opposed the bailout -- said he understood reports that AIG was contractually obligated to pay bonuses.  'I understand that in ordinary times, the company has legal obligations,' Pence said. 'But these are not ordinary times.'  Strange said she had favored the bailout but hearing about the AIG bonuses 'took the wind out of my sails.'  'The whole idea of the bailout was to get our country back on track, not to pad the already-padded pockets of the rich and famous,' Strange said.  
