CaribWorldNews, WASHINGTON, D.C., Weds. Mar. 4, 2009: President Barack Obama is not straying from his position of cracking down on tax havens, several of which are located in the Caribbean.Obama's Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on Tuesday reiterated that a new bill introduced in the House of Representatives on Monday by Rep. Lloyd Doggett had the full support of the new administration. 'Let me just start by saying that we fully support the legislation you referred to championed by your colleagues on offshore tax centers, and we look forward to working with you as part of the broader effort to address international tax evasion and close the tax gap,' Geithner told Rep. Doggett Tuesday.   His comments came during testimony to the House Ways and Means Committee, headed by Congressman Charles Rangel, on whether some Americans have used secret accounts with Swiss bank UBS AG to avoid paying taxes in the United States. Obama's budget seeks to close the 'tax gap' by tackling tax shelters and other efforts to abuse U.S. tax laws, including international tax evasion efforts, Geither said Tuesday.  And it addresses the use of offshore structures and accounts by U.S. corporations and  individuals to avoid and evade U.S. taxes. 'Over the next several months, the President will propose a series of legislative and enforcement measures to reduce such U.S. tax evasion and avoidance,' added the Treasury Secretary. 'Some proposals will focus on the rules in our tax code that put those who invest and create jobs in the United States at a disadvantage. We will propose rules to both reform U.S. corporations ability to defer foreign earnings and deter high income individuals and corporations from using tax havens to avoid taxation.'Doggett for his part told Geithner that UBS is not alone and asked that the administration 'look closely at those that are coming and asking for a government bailout, like Morgan Stanley, which has 158 subsidiaries in the Cayman Islands, Citigroup with 90, and Bank of America with 59, to explain why it's equitable for them to be able to avoid taxes at the same time they're asking for so much tax money.'Sen. Carl Levin, another Democrat from Michigan, introduced a corresponding bill in the Senate on Monday that would expand on legislation he co-sponsored last year with then-Senator Obama.   The hearing and the bills come on the heels of the R. Allen Stanford alleged multi-billion dollar ponzi scheme and as the St. Vincent and the Grenadines ambassador to the U.S., La Celia Prince, told CWNN that the apparent protectionism push by the U.S. could severely impact several Caribbean nations that flourish now as off-shore financial sectors. - By CWNN Staffwriter 
