Equity markets continued their downward march breaking breaking through the downside support levels of last November and dropping to 1997 levels. Investor confidence continues to erode as the health and sheer existence of major financials once again were at the center of market attention. How can anyone have much confidence in the equity market when the center of economic power has shifted from Wall Street to Washington? Political decisions and testimony before Congress now drives market activity. Gone are the days when statements from Buffet, Boggle and Lynch moved the markets. We now focus on statements from Frank, Geithner and Bair to drive market direction.  The breakdown in confidence stems from the lack of sufficient measures to address the problems that are at the core of this financial crisis. The recently proposed housing plan does not have the legs to provide a long term solution for underwater mortgages. The bank plan proposed by Treasury does not do enough to remove toxic loans from the books of the financials. A bad bank solution has been discussed but not yet established. The Stimulus package did little to instill confidence in the economy. The injection of public funds in the form of capital into the financials has done little to spur consumer lending.  In fact, more capital is needed and we now seem to have an open ended commitment to continually fund losses and capital infusion needs for the financials ala Citi (C) and AIG (AIG) on the insurance side. Without confidence in the financials, much needed credit is not going to start to flow and the equity markets cannot find much needed support.  The band-aid approach to this crisis is getting long in the tooth. The longer the core issues remain unsolved, the longer we wait for real economic recovery. The foundation for equities is cracked. Worries persist on the job front, housing, credit and financials. The jump-start expected from the stimulus plan depends on renewed consumer confidence and spending. The minimal tax reduction will not help to get credit flowing or housing stabilized. At this point, none of the fundamental problems has been properly addressed. There cannot be expectations of a turn in the US and world economy without a clear and concise solution to the issues above.  The proposed budget for fiscal 2010 raises taxes (redistributes wealth), increases spending and puts more doubt on the ability to bring this economy out of the dumps. Washington needs to look no further than the equity market that is continually eroding in value and down over 50% from the previous high to see where the economy will be at the end of 2009. Tax increases, continued injections and floating trial balloons on policy fixes do not fix the underlying systemic problems. Yes, the trickle-down effect of recent actions may eventually help to move the economy forward. But, it is hard to believe we have the time to wait for trickle-down economics to work in this environment.Washington needs to get their act together and starts working with Wall Street to solve the issues that still confront the markets. It is time to put the band-aids away, get out the scalpel, get the surgery out of the way and let the private sector work along with the government and get the economy on the right track to recovery.  
