The Bureau of Labor Statistics' announcement Friday that the economy lost 651,000 jobs in February, pushing the nation's unemployment rate up to 8.1 percent, was depressing but no surprise.  Worker cutbacks are a predictable and even sensible response to the general economic downturn. Can anyone expect employers not to cut costs, to keep on board people to make things that fewer customers are buying and to offer services that are not being purchased? At the same time, the downward spiral is perpetuated as those who are released do not spend, do not pay the taxes that are supposed to help finance the governmental bailout measures and begin to seek government services that cost tax money.  The administration of President Barack Obama is taking action to try to deal with the problem of the slumping economy, the latest being the measures he put forward to stem foreclosures and other mortgage miseries.  Few of his programs, however, are in place and operative or certainly in any position to be judged for their effectiveness in addressing the nation's problems. At some point it will be time to evaluate the performance of the Obama administration, as opposed to obsessing with the damage inflicted by the policies of former President George W. Bush. But not yet.  The glaring point on which the Obama administration is still lagging is in finding out what the beneficiaries of the financial bailout are doing with the large amounts of federal cash that have been put into their hands. One example is Bank of America, which bought Merrill Lynch, ostensibly to keep it from failing. At the moment those two are engaged in an unilluminating verbal battle over some $3.6 billion in bonuses that Merrill Lynch paid its senior executives in December.  The bottom line is the American people still haven't been told clearly just why firms like AIG, Citigroup and Bank of America can't be allowed to fail -- who specifically loses if they do? -- nor what they have done with the taxpayer money they have been provided already. That's not good enough if Americans are being asked to have confidence that their government is dealing with these problems.
