A tidal wave of public outrage over bonus payments swamped American International Group on Monday. Hired guards stood watch outside the suburban Connecticut offices of AIG Financial Products, the division whose exotic derivatives brought the insurance giant to the brink of collapse last year.  Inside, death threats and angry letters flooded e-mail inboxes. Irate callers lit up the phone lines. Senior managers submitted their resignations. Some employees didn't show up at all. 'It's a mob effect,' one senior executive said. 'It's putting people's lives in danger.' Politicians and the public spent Monday demanding that AIG rescind payouts that they said rewarded recklessness and greed at a company being bailed out with $170 billion (Dh624 billion) in taxpayer funds. But company officials contend that the uproar is scaring away the very employees who understand AIG Financial Products' complex trades and who are trying to dismantle the division before it further endangers the world's economy. 'It's going to blow up,' said a senior Financial Products manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 'I have a horrible, horrible, horrible feeling that this is going to end badly.' President Obama on Monday vowed to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses.' But that pledge might have come too late. About $165 million in retention payments started to go out on Friday to employees at Financial Products, after numerous discussions with the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve.  Attorneys working for the Fed had been examining the matter for months and determined that the retention payments couldn't be touched because AIG would face costly lawsuits and be subject to penalties from states and foreign governments. Administration officials said over the weekend that they agreed with that assessment.  AIG disclosed its retention-payment programme more than a year ago, and the amount of the bonuses - more than $400 million for Financial Products alone - had been widely reported. But as the payments were coming due in recent days, the White House began to express its indignation.  Pressure on the 370-person Financial Products unit, based primarily in Connecticut and London, grew even more intense on Monday when New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo threatened to issue subpoenas if the company failed to provide details about recipients of the retention payments.  The payments represent only the most contentious of a larger group of bonuses being paid throughout AIG.   The company's top seven officials, including chief executive Edward M. Liddy, agreed in November to forgo bonuses through this year.  After a call between Liddy and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, AIG agreed to restructure payments for the next 43 highest-ranking officers at the company, who are to receive half of their bonuses - which total $9.6 million - immediately.   The last two payments would depend on whether the company makes progress in restructuring its business and paying back taxpayers. Liddy was scheduled to appear before a House financial subcommittee. 
