WASHINGTON -- Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for 'recklessness and greed' yesterday and pledged to try to block it from handing executives $165 million in bonuses after taking billions in federal bailout money. 'How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?' Obama asked. 'This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values.' Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the focus for Americans' bailout blues.  The bonuses could contribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda that is dominating the start of his presidency.  David Axelrod, senior adviser to Obama, said there was no question that the bonuses and the public's anger over them could run many things off the rails. 'People are angry because they've seen exhibit after exhibit of irresponsibility and people walking away with money in their pockets,' he said. 'It's undermined the discussion that we have to have.' Obama said he has directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayer whole.' Later, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration would modify the terms of a pending $30 billion bailout installment for AIG to at least recoup the $165 million the bonuses represent. That wouldn't rescind the bonuses, just require AIG to account for them differently.  Axelrod called the bonuses 'spectacularly tone-deaf' and said the administration hoped the tough talk would result in voluntary action on the part of AIG and its bonus recipients, although that remains an open question.  On a separate track, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said yesterday he would issue subpoenas for information on the bonuses after AIG missed his deadline for providing details. Cuomo said his office would investigate whether the employees were involved in AIG's near-collapse and whether the $165 million in bonus payments were fraudulent under state law.  AIG spokeswoman Christina Pretto said, 'We are in contact with the attorney general and will of course respond to his request.' Bailout steps for AIG totaling over $170 billion since September have effectively left the federal government with an 80 percent stake in the faltering insurance giant.  In a letter to Geithner over the weekend, the government-appointed chief executive of AIG, Edward Liddy, said the bonuses were legally binding obligations and the firm's 'hands are tied.' Still, pressure was building on that issue -- and on the government to rework its AIG bailout to make sure the company repays as much of the $170 billion as possible.  Among those blasting AIG yesterday was Rep. Mary Jo Kilroy, D-Columbus, who noted she will have the opportunity Wednesday to question Liddy during a House hearing. 'Americans feel like they keep getting slapped in the face by companies that took taxpayer dollars but continue their Wall Street ways,' Kilroy said. 'The financial crisis caused families in central Ohio to make tough decisions, and it should have shaken companies like AIG from their outrageous spending.' So far, the company has been honoring its contracts with U.S. and foreign banks, paying out more than $90 billion in bailout funds to them and others. The government agreed to uphold those contracts when it seized control of AIG in September, contending that failure would bring even worse global economic problems.  However, Obama officials made the rounds of Sunday talk shows to denounce the insurer. And even Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke weighed in, saying on CBS' 60 Minutes that the AIG bailout angered him the most. Still, he said a collapse of AIG would have wreaked havoc on the global economy.  The AIG bonuses were revealed over the weekend. It also was disclosed that AIG used $90 billion-plus in federal aid to pay foreign and domestic banks, some of which had received their own multibillion-dollar U.S. government bailouts.  The money went to banks to cover their losses on complex mortgage investments, as well as for collateral needed for other transactions.  Dispatch Washington Bureau Chief Jonathan Riskind contributed to this story.  Obama joins critics of bonus plan for bailed-out insurer's execs 
