This just in - confirmation from an impeccable source that the U.S. stimulus packages aren't going to work. The source's name is Jones, as in Dow.   Someone once joked that the stock market predicted nine of the past five recessions, but the truth is it's a pretty reliable indicator. Today the Dow is worth half of its 2007 peak of 14,168, when it was at the height of its wealth and solvency.   And it's still sinking fast, even after all sorts of lavish government spending announcements and freebies. The venerable index looks like the Venture exchange, littered with practical penny stocks. GM is at $1.86 (U.S.). Citigroup, $1.02. AIG, recently removed from the index, trades for 35 cents.  Stock prices look ahead. Do you need more proof that these stimulus packages won't be enough? How about a liberal sprinkling of common sense. The problem is debt, as in too much of it. U.S. private debt used to track the size of the economy faithfully. Starting about 25 years ago the two diverged and now private debt is 170 per cent of GDP. More  Stories     WHO'S RESPONSIBLE?  Go to the  section  I'm sure some overpaid bank economist could put down his Beaujolais long enough to explain why a mushroom cloud of leverage is okay because of X, Y and Z. But remember we want common sense here, not propaganda. Too much debt is fatal - it's not debatable.  A perfect confluence of stupidity, greed and incompetence only made matters worse. Greedy people lent and dumb people borrowed, and in the meantime incompetent governments and central bankers played Sudoku instead of policing ratings agencies, hedge funds and even government-sponsored firms such as Fannie Mae. And in turn, this credit bubble propped up bad businesses. Here are your examples:  General Motors wants more money to avoid a Chapter 11 filing. General Motors' vice-chairman pooh-poohed hybrid cars as recently as a year ago.   Bank of America got handouts, which you could easily argue were used to help finance the purchase of Merrill Lynch, which you could argue made it easier for Merrill to pay almost $4-billion in bonuses to the executives who drove it to the brink of bankruptcy.   Citigroup gets bailed out as a reward for destroying billions of shareholder money.  General Electric massaged its earnings for years - and former CEO Jack Welch admits as much in his gripping tell-all book about how great he is - and it gets help.  Some homeowners who can't pay their mortgages will get money, while those who are servicing their debt get nothing.  By rewarding stupidity, incompetence and greed, the stimulus package just stimulates more of each. But that's only half the problem. The other half is that the debt problem is being addressed by borrowing money.   The only difference is that the federal government is doing the borrowing this time. Private debt is being moved to the public balance sheet. That's convenient if you're the CEO of Citigroup or a foolhardy spendthrift with a heavily mortgaged house in beautiful Cleveland. But it doesn't change much, because public debt is private debt. The only difference is who'll pay it off, today's taxpayers or tomorrow's. We know the answer.  Recessions and bear markets serve a purpose. They crush stupidity, incompetence and greed and reset the levers. Just as a forest ultimately thrives after a devastating scorched-earth fire, an economy bounces back healthy after a proper, cleansing rout.   These stimulus packages are trying to save a few trees. They might succeed in saving a few companies, but they'll never be strong. They are bound to be a drag on markets.  There's no doubt a dire need for stimulus, and inevitably it has to be debt-financed. But why not let average Joes decide how to dole out the money. A trillion-dollar deficit is enough to finance cash payments of about $7,000 to every U.S. household. Considering that 90 per cent of families earn about $31,000 a year or less (excluding capital gains, should they still exist), that's a lot of money.  They would probably know the best place to put it to work.   Fabrice Taylor is a chartered financial analyst.  ftaylor@globeandmail.com 
