* Economy near worst-case scenario, won't recover fast  * Democrats, Republicans should set aside differences  * Banks should 'get back to banking' (Adds Buffett comment, Bank of America CEO)  NEW YORK, March 9 (Reuters) - Warren Buffett said on Monday the U.S. economy had 'fallen off a cliff' but would eventually recover, although a rebound could kindle inflation worse than that experienced in the late 1970s.  Speaking on CNBC television, the 78-year-old billionaire said the country is experiencing a 'close to the worst-case' scenario of falling business activity and rising unemployment, causing consumer confidence and spending to tumble.  Buffett called on Democratic and Republican policymakers to set aside partisan differences and unite under the leadership of President Barack Obama to wage an 'economic war' that will fix the economy and restore confidence in banking.  He urged policymakers and regulators to communicate their efforts better to the public, though he stopped short of major, specific policy recommendations.  'People are confused and scared,' he said. 'People can't be worried about banks, and a lot of them are.'  Buffett spoke nine days after his insurance and investment company Berkshire Hathaway Inc (BRKa.N) (BRKb.N) said quarterly profit fell 96 percent, largely from losses on derivatives contracts. Berkshire's book value per share fell 9.6 percent in 2008, the worst year since Buffett took over in 1965.  RECOVERY COULD TRIGGER MORE INFLATION  Buffett said Americans, including himself, did not predict the severity of home price declines, which led to problems with securitizations and other debt whose value depended on home prices continuing to rise, or at least not plummet.  'It was like some kids saying the emperor has no clothes, and then after he says that, he says now that the emperor doesn't have any underwear either,' Buffett said. 'We want to err on the side next time of not allowing big institutions to get as unchecked on leverage as we have allowed them to do.'  Consumers too should reduce their reliance on debt such as credit cards, he said. 'I can't make money borrowing money at 18 or 20 percent,' said Buffett, ranked as the second-richest American by Forbes magazine in October. 'I'd go broke.'  Buffett said the economy was mere hours away from collapse last September when credit markets seized up, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LEHMQ.PK) went bankrupt and insurer American International Group Inc (AIG.N) got its first bailout.  While praising efforts by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and others to stimulate the economy, he said the economy 'can't turn around on a dime' and that their efforts could trigger higher inflation once demand rebounds. Continued...  
