U.S. Rep. Carol Shea-Porter:  Staying put  Perception often becomes reality, and in the case of Democrat Carol Shea-Porter she didn't give off the perception that she was interested in the U.S. Senate, so the reality of her decision to stay put as a congresswoman isn't much of a surprise.  Paul Hodes, on the other hand, early and often gave the impression of greater aspirations beyond his job as Democratic U.S. Representative from the 2nd District.  He has tried to sound more senatorial for some time. Shea-Porter has not.  As she should, Shea-Porter has stuck largely to the meat and potatoes of the 1st District, as evidenced by the focus of her press releases on such issues as:  Grant money for energy efficiency;  Funding for New Hampshire law enforcement;  Funding for New Hampshire public transportation;  Funding for homeless prevention.  She has commented on general issues such as the economic stimulus package and the switch to digital television, and she has sought to engage Secretary of Defense Robert Gates over the renewal of a contract in Iraq involving a contractor who did questionable electrical work.  Contrast that with Hodes who, in addition to the lunch bucket issues of the 2nd District, has glommed more onto national and global themes.  Just yesterday, for example, he issued a press release expressing concern about American Insurance Group (AIG), which received over $165 billion in taxpayer bailout funds, paying $450 million in bonuses to top executives.  His press releases have included commentary on topics such as:  Legislation to preserve White House records;  Investigate ties between earmarks and campaign contributions;  The loss of 651,000 jobs throughout the country in February;  Accountability in TARP funds.  It was Hodes who was positioned himself early on as a candidate for the U.S. Senate during the rigmarole in February over whether incumbent Republican Sen. Judd Gregg would or would not become the secretary of commerce in President Barack Obama's cabinet.  For her part, Shea-Porter in her announcement yesterday that she wouldn't be a candidate for the Senate said she loves her work in the House. She'll be up for re-election in 2010.  Her decision avoids a head to head primary that leaves both their House seats open. As Hodes noted in a release: 'State Democratic leaders made no secret of their desire to avoid a competitive and contentious Senate primary while at the same time leaving both US House seats open next year.'  As for the Republicans, Gregg has said he won't run again so they seem to be giving John Sununu the right of first refusal as to whether or not to run. Sununu lost his Senate seat to Democrat Jeanne Shaheen in the 2008 election.  In the meantime, the man Shea-Porter defeated for Congress is running for the state senate.  Republican Jeb Bradley made it official yesterday. He'll face Democrat Bud Martin in a special election t0 replace Republican William Denley, who resigned his senate seat after a drunken driving arrest.  Bradley served two terms in Washington before being ousted in 2006 by Democrat Carol Shea-Porter, who beat him again in November.  
