Deeply unsettled by the foreclosure crisis ravaging Hub neighborhoods, Mayor  today sent an unprecendented plea to more than a dozen banks and mortgage companies urging them to agree to a six-month moratorium on foreclosures while the economy struggles through its current quagmire. I urge you to halt foreclosures, so that we can bring stability to our families and neighborhoods in this time of deep uncertainty, Menino said in his letter, noting that one in 10 U.S. homeowners has fallen behind on mortgage payments.  The city says it has identified about 500 homeowners who would need the relief immediately, and that an unspecified number who could fall into crisis as unemployment continues to soar. Many homes facing foreclosure are multifamily and rental dwellings, meaning that thousands of people are at risk of losing shelter. As of Oct. 31, 1,039 homes have been foreclosed in Boston in 2008, according to city data.  Among the 18 lenders receiving the plea are mortgage giants such as Indy Mac Federal Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co., Bank of America, GMAC and Citigroup. The letters are addressed to the CEOs of those corporations, many of which have tens of thousands of bad loans and foreclosures on their books. We looked at the lenders with the largest amounts of mortgages, said Pat Canavan, the mayors housing adviser. Canavan said Menino is the first American mayor to issue such a letter.  Moratoriums on foreclosures have been on the wish lists of many mayors and governors lobbying President-elect Barack Obama in the months preceding his inauguration. Lenders and lawmakers in Washington have been generally lukewarm to the idea because it could further stall what small amounts of revenue are being generated for major lenders being bailed out by the federal government.  In Florida earlier this month, lenders agreed only to a partial 45-day freeze on foreclosures. Florida is one of the worst-hit states, with nearly 10 percents of homes in foreclosure proceedings. 
