(This is part of Take Charge of Your Money , a partnership between INQUIRER.net and Citibank to help readers handle their personal finances well.)  Question: I recently lost my wallet while shopping at the mall. It contained my ATM and credit card. I went home right away and reported the loss of my ATM card to the bank, and the loss of my credit card to the credit card company. By that time, however, withdrawals have already been made from my ATM (they left P400 in the balance) and my card was used to buy a digital camera and an aircon. Im so mad about the whole thing. How can I avoid this happening again?  Anabelle  Answer: It is unfortunate that there are unscrupulous people out there who prey on unsuspecting people. You are not the first one to report such an incident. Every month, a number of men and women become victims to this type of robbery both here in the Philippines and abroad.  You were right in contacting your bank and credit card company on that same day to report the loss. One thing customers need to remember is the hotline to their bank or credit card company. Have this memorized in your head, and add it to your contact list in your cellphone and planner. With this, you can report the matter as soon as you discover it, even before you head for home. The company can then suspend the use of the old card.  If someone uses that card after it has been reported stolen, the attempt to withdraw or purchase will be disapproved, and any theft prevented.  Here are some tips to avoid being victimized by pickpockets who rob you further through your ATM and credit card:  1. Never write down your personal identification number (PIN). If you have it written down somewhere and stashed it in your wallet, the robber will be able to withdraw all your money in the next five minutes.  2. Choose a PIN and password that are strong and cannot easily be guessed. With your IDs in the wallet, it would be easy for the robber to match information. He may try to guess your PIN by inputting your date of birth, your house number, your phone number, and even your student number. The robber may do the same using Internet banking, trying passwords culled from your personal information. Make it hard for the robber to decipher your PIN and password by choosing numbers and letters that do not mean anything. Just make sure you can remember them in your head.  3. Change your PIN and password from time to time. Bank experts suggest changing ones PIN and password regularly to make it harder for cyber criminals to hack your account. Some banks already prompt the changing of passwords through Internet banking through a pop-up window appearing regularly over time.  4. Carry only the cards you need. If youre just going to the car wash or to the supermarket for groceries, dont bring your SSS or GSIS ID and other unnecessary cards. Not only will your purse or wallet be lighter, doing so will protect your cards from theft. This also goes for credit and debit cards. Bring only what you need for the day.  5. At home, keep your cards under lock and key. Find a safe place in your home where you can store valuables including cards you dont bring with you. Make sure it is locked before you go.  6. Keep an eye on your valuablesWhen shopping at the mall, keep your bag close to your body, preferably in front. When dining in a caf or restaurant, place your bag on your lap. Never put it on the chair beside you or underneath your seat since a lot of snatchers have stolen bags this way.  7. Sign your ATM card or credit card upon receiptAs soon as you receive your new ATM or credit card, make sure you sign at the back. This will establish your signature which will be matched by the vendor to the signature on the charge slip whenever a credit purchase is made. Imagine what would happen if you lose your card before you have signed at the back: The thief will be able to sign as he/she pleases and it will be honored by the vendor if the card isnt blocked.  8. Dont keep all your money in your ATM account. Just as you should not keep all your eggs in one basket, dont put all your money in your ATM account. This will limit the amount of money available to a thief. Put excess money in accounts that may earn you more interest or income, such as a time deposit, mutual fund or unit investment trust fund. These will be out of the pickpockets reach.  Hard-earned money is your reward for working well. Safeguard your assets well.  (INQUIRER.net and Citibank invite readers to ask questions regarding financial matters. Send your questions to personal_finance@inquirer.net or comment through our personal finance blog called MoneySmarts )  *Disclaimer: Readers are solely responsible for their own investment decisions and should thus conduct their own research and due diligence and obtain professional advice. INQUIRER.net will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a reader's reliance on information obtained from our web site. INQUIRER.net receives no compensation of any kind from companies or industries or funds that are mentioned here.  
