US Senate leaders said Republicans and Democrats tried desperately on Thursday night to reach a bipartisan agreement that could get the support needed to bring the measure for the vote. Both sides made concessions to obtain the necessary short-term funds to avoid the possibility of GM or Chrysler having to file for bankruptcy. But the United Auto Workers union's refusal to put their employees at "purity pay" with non-union plants operated by foreign automakers proved to be a stumbling block. The United Auto Workers union chose to let their companies go bankrupt and put up to two million people out of work rather than take a pay cut that would make their companies more competitive and enhance their chances of survival.  Immediately after the news got out, the Dow futures were down 330 points but I wrote last week that from now until the inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama, Americans will remain in an optimistic mood and the Dow closed 64-points higher. A recent survey shows that 75 percent of all Americans regard Obama as the new messiah and are confident that he can get the economy going again. They will give him a three-month honeymoon period. Meanwhile, I feel that money will be forthcoming so that the Bush administration will not be blamed for creating a catastrophe.  The Federal Reserve has been dispensing vast sums of money outside of the $700-billion TARP and other legitimate sources of funds. When questioned to disclose the recipients of more than $2-trillion emergency loans from taxpayers' pockets, the Fed replied that it was allowed to withhold internal memos as well as information about trade secrets and commercial information. Congress is demanding more transparency from the Fed and the Treasury on the bailout efforts. This is a huge sum to hide, and Representative Scott said Americans "have been bamboozled." Because of this confidence in Obama, even the loss of 533,000 jobs plus another 200,000 upward revision of the previous two months, failed to send the market lower. The situation is likely to worsen. Bank of America is going to cut 35,000 jobs and the layoffs in the first two weeks of December already totaled 115,000. In addition, the number of people claiming unemployment benefit reached a 36-year high and the makers of cars sold hit a 26-year low. It is quite possible that 600,000 jobs will be lost this month bringing the total to 2.5 million. The number of jobs lost by next year could exceed the number of layoffs in 1945 when the economy shed 2.75 million. The Economic Cycle Research Institute forecasts that by December 2009, unemployment will reach 8.5 percent and that the first four months of 2009 will be bad.  Assuming that $14 billion is forthcoming soon, I still do not see the US auto industry surviving without a massive cut in jobs, models and pay. All automakers will be affected and Toyota dropped 11 percent last Friday after announcing that it would produce fewer cars and cut its dividend. The problem is that the dealers do not have money to finance transactions and 660 have already closed down. Even if you have an excellent credit rating and put down a 20 percent deposit, you simply cannot find a dealer to cover the remainder because the banks won't lend. So bailing out the big three will not save them in the long run and I don't believe they will sell 10.5 millions cars next year.  This year, one million homes have been foreclosed, 1.6 million are 60 days overdue and the FDIC expects an additional 3.8 million next year. House prices have dropped 21 percent since the beginning of 2006 and the decline in prices continues. Consumer spending is falling despite unbelievable discounts in all the stores. A huge stimulus package is being prepared, probably $700 million to $1 billion. The effect of printing all this paper money is that the dollar is at a 7-year low against the euro and a 13-year low against the yen. Similar packages have been announced on a global scale.  In China, inflation is down to 2.4 percent and the government has changed direction and is trying to stimulate the economy by rolling out a $584-billion package. The central bank has already reduced rates by almost 2 percent and dropped quotas limiting spending by banks. A plan to spend $100 billion to build railways linking towns to rural areas is a priority as it would increase domestic demand and boost the pay in the countryside, which is only a third of urban workers.  * * *  I was discussing with my wife which countries to visit in Europe next year. "How about Greece?" I asked. She replied, "What's wrong with Vaseline?" The discovery of the Ebola-Reston strain in pigs ("double-dead pork") has caused China to ban imports of pig iron and pig nickel. Beauty Parlor-a place where women curl up and dye.
