The debate taking place in Washington since the outbreak of the financial crisis represents a historical event in every sense of the word. The best example is the decision taken by the administration of President George Bush to save the AIG insurance empire while refraining from supporting the Lehman Brothers financial institution. A different kind of struggle is now taking place in Congress, between the Republican and Democratic parties on one hand and the directors of the major car manufacturing companies (General Motors, Chrysler and Ford) on the other, over the extent of the support Congress can offer them, as well as its nature and requirements.  A few days ago, the House of Representatives voted to provide 15 billion dollars to bail out the auto industry in Detroit, and to appoint a general supervisor over the three companies. The responsibilities of such a supervisor would lie in defining and approving the 'strategies' of the three companies, while their own administrative structures would be in charge of their implementation. The general supervisor's duties would also include verifying the way the companies spend the funds. The US government would own shares in all three companies, without however having the right to vote in board meetings.  As the plan is meeting with difficulties at the Senate, a consensual plan is expected to be unveiled, one that would bring the points of view of the House of Representatives and of the Senate closer together. Bush is also expected to amend the clauses of the final decision before it is issued.  Thus, around a hundred years after it was founded, the Detroit auto industry has rushed to Washington asking for help to avoid bankruptcy. So far, the amount of money that would ultimately be required is still unknown, as the number could rise to tens of billions of dollars. While American car sales have witnessed a considerable drop this year, the Detroit companies have been trying to lay the blame on the financial crisis. But Ford's losses, for instance, began in 2006, and reached six billion dollars that very year alone. In other words, these companies had started to suffer from problems before the financial crisis. It is only natural for the Detroit auto industry to pay a heavy price as it has admitted how close it is to bankruptcy and rushed to Congress for help. Most of the statements made by officials from the US administration (both the current and the coming one) and by lawmakers in Congress indicate that the price will be the 'restructuring' of these companies.  Such a term means many different things. One of them is reducing the production of luxury and 4x4 cars which gobble up gasoline and diesel fuel, and which American companies are renowned for. Another is curbing spending to enable American companies to compete with their Japanese and European counterparts. Yet another is encouraging the production of cars that do not rely on internal combustion engines, as is the case now, but rather on hybrid engines that use less gas and more electricity.  The Democratic Party has been trying for three decades to pressure these companies into changing the nature of their production. The reason is partly environmental and partly political. Indeed, aside from protecting the environment, the Democratic Party is trying to cut the US's reliance on foreign oil, especially oil imported from the Middle East. Car companies have claimed for this whole time that their profit margin from the sales of luxury and 4x4 cars was much greater than that of smaller 'economic' cars, and have continued to produce them despite pressures. Meanwhile, Japanese companies such as Honda and Korean companies such as Hyundai have swept the American market with their small-sized cars.  Government and party pressure on Detroit is expected to be stronger this time in terms of restructuring the auto industry in the US. Moreover, car companies are expected to submit to these pressures, after having fallen at the financial mercy of the US government. However, the question remains: at what speed will such restructuring programs be implemented, and how much will they cost?  The programs are expected to run for years, as it is not easy to rapidly execute such a shift in an integrated industry. There is also the necessity of dealing with more than half a million cars presently scattered across the different roads of the world, supplying them with traditional fuel and providing them with spare parts. Indeed, without a scientific innovation that would rapidly change the present situation, it will be difficult to find a short and quick way ahead, regardless of how much pressure is applied by the administration in Washington.  * Mr. Khadduri is an energy expert.  The debate taking place in Washington since the outbreak of the financial crisis represents a historical event in every sense of the word. The best example is the decision taken by the administration of President George Bush to save the AIG insurance empire while refraining from supporting the Lehman Brothers financial institution. A different kind of struggle is now taking place in Congress, between the Republican and Democratic parties on one hand and the directors of the major car manufacturing companies (General Motors, Chrysler and Ford) on the other, over the extent of the support Congress can offer them, as well as its nature and requirements.  A few days ago, the House of Representatives voted to provide 15 billion dollars to bail out the auto industry in Detroit, and to appoint a general supervisor over the three companies. The responsibilities of such a supervisor would lie in defining and approving the 'strategies' of the three companies, while their own administrative structures would be in charge of their implementation. The general supervisor's duties would also include verifying the way the companies spend the funds. The US government would own shares in all three companies, without however having the right to vote in board meetings.  As the plan is meeting with difficulties at the Senate, a consensual plan is expected to be unveiled, one that would bring the points of view of the House of Representatives and of the Senate closer together. Bush is also expected to amend the clauses of the final decision before it is issued.  Thus, around a hundred years after it was founded, the Detroit auto industry has rushed to Washington asking for help to avoid bankruptcy. So far, the amount of money that would ultimately be required is still unknown, as the number could rise to tens of billions of dollars. While American car sales have witnessed a considerable drop this year, the Detroit companies have been trying to lay the blame on the financial crisis. But Ford's losses, for instance, began in 2006, and reached six billion dollars that very year alone. In other words, these companies had started to suffer from problems before the financial crisis. It is only natural for the Detroit auto industry to pay a heavy price as it has admitted how close it is to bankruptcy and rushed to Congress for help. Most of the statements made by officials from the US administration (both the current and the coming one) and by lawmakers in Congress indicate that the price will be the 'restructuring' of these companies.  Such a term means many different things. One of them is reducing the production of luxury and 4x4 cars which gobble up gasoline and diesel fuel, and which American companies are renowned for. Another is curbing spending to enable American companies to compete with their Japanese and European counterparts. Yet another is encouraging the production of cars that do not rely on internal combustion engines, as is the case now, but rather on hybrid engines that use less gas and more electricity.  The Democratic Party has been trying for three decades to pressure these companies into changing the nature of their production. The reason is partly environmental and partly political. Indeed, aside from protecting the environment, the Democratic Party is trying to cut the US's reliance on foreign oil, especially oil imported from the Middle East. Car companies have claimed for this whole time that their profit margin from the sales of luxury and 4x4 cars was much greater than that of smaller 'economic' cars, and have continued to produce them despite pressures. Meanwhile, Japanese companies such as Honda and Korean companies such as Hyundai have swept the American market with their small-sized cars.  Government and party pressure on Detroit is expected to be stronger this time in terms of restructuring the auto industry in the US. Moreover, car companies are expected to submit to these pressures, after having fallen at the financial mercy of the US government. However, the question remains: at what speed will such restructuring programs be implemented, and how much will they cost?  The programs are expected to run for years, as it is not easy to rapidly execute such a shift in an integrated industry. There is also the necessity of dealing with more than half a million cars presently scattered across the different roads of the world, supplying them with traditional fuel and providing them with spare parts. Indeed, without a scientific innovation that would rapidly change the present situation, it will be difficult to find a short and quick way ahead, regardless of how much pressure is applied by the administration in Washington.  * Mr. Khadduri is an energy expert. 
