$70-an-hour figure isn't accurate  I heard a news report that American autoworkers get $70 an hour in wages and benefits. Can that be true?   No.   The American automakers keep putting that number out there as a reason they're having trouble competing with foreign automakers. And too many in the media just repeat it without clarification.  What the automakers sometimes neglect to point out is that $70-an-hour number includes current worker wages and benefits (such as health care and retirement) and the retirement and health care benefits for their retirees.  American autoworkers make a base wage of about $28 an hour. Good wages, to be sure, and they have good benefits, too.  But they don't make $70 an hour.  Tough to help from bottom up  If the government wants to bail out banks or remove the bad mortgage debt that they hold, why can't they let the homeowners do it? Instead of handing $20-billion in federal money to Citibank, give Citibank mortgage customers vouchers they can use to help pay off their mortgages. Likewise, couldn't the government bail out the auto industry by giving every American a voucher check that would help pay for the purchase of a new GM, Ford or Chrysler car?  You're hardly alone. Many politicians  including President-elect Obama  want some bailout money to go directly to consumers. But there are drawbacks to the bottom-up approach.  In some instances, the government has bought troubled assets at low prices, or acquired stock of bailed-out companies  approaches that could ultimately benefit the government and taxpayers if the assets gain in value and companies recover. Vouchers for consumers don't offer the same kind of potential investment return.  However, distributing vouchers could yield other benefits. Direct aid to consumers could reduce foreclosures, boost the auto industry or even help the environment, if the vouchers included incentives for consumers to buy fuel-efficient cars.  But vouchers could also raise fairness questions. 'The issue is where do you begin and end in handing out vouchers,' said Laurence Kotlikoff, a Boston University economics professor. 'If you're behind on your payments and get a mortgage, and your neighbor who makes the same money and is current in his payments doesn't, your neighbor will feel he's being mistreated.' And what about consumers who don't qualify for vouchers because they get mortgages or buy cars from companies that aren't being bailed out?
