'Hi, welcome to Kwik Shop.' That is a phrase I hear every time I walk into a Kwik Shop to buy a cup of coffee or a bottle of Coca-Cola. Sometimes, the clerks simultaneously shout the phrase from behind the counter.  'Why do you say that every time someone walks in?' I asked.  'We have to say it; it's company policy,' the clerk answered.  'What happens if you don't?' I continued.  'They tell us we'll get fired, and since we never know whether it's a corporate person, we say it every time,' she replied.  'So, if I walked in, then out, and then back in again, would you have to say 'Welcome to Kwik Shop' every time I came through the door?'  'Yep, that's what we're supposed to do.'  I appreciate what Kwik Shop is trying to do - create a sense of friendliness for the customers - and I appreciate the clerks' friendly attitudes. But the short conversations and witty banter at the counter do more for me than a canned greeting that lost its effectiveness a long time ago.  ***  We're supposedly in a credit crunch, things are terrible, and the government needs $1 trillion of your money to help 'loosen up the credit markets' because no bank anywhere is lending money for anything.  But that doesn't stop Bank of America from sending me another pre-approved credit card offer. Normally I throw these offers in the trash, but 18 months of 0-percent interest seemed like a good opportunity to move around some 'toxic' debt of my own.  When I called to register the card I was transferred to a customer service representative.  'I see you've transferred the one balance to your new Bank of America account; is there anything else I can do for you today?'  'No, I think that's all I need,' I said.  I had hoped at this point the conversation would end, and I could go on with my life. The man on the other end of the conversation had a different idea.  'You do have 0-percent interest into 2010 with this card, are you sure we can't give you a cash advance and put some money in your checking account?'  I answered with a simple 'no,' but the following thoughts were running through my head:  'Seriously, are you asking me if you can loan me money on a credit card that I can use today and take the next 10 years to pay back? Aren't we in a credit crunch? Aren't we in a recession? Isn't this really an irresponsible thing to do, you know, considering how the government is shelling out billions of dollars to keep you and your kind from imploding and collapsing?'  ***  I'm not a Bill O'Reilly fan, but I'll listen to him from time to time, just to hear what he has to say.  This week, I listened to some talking head - I think it was O'Reilly, but it could've been Rush Limbaugh or one of his fill-ins - discussing the economy. There was some dispute about whether the economy really is in dire straights or whether it is just a psychosomatic response to all the media reports about the weakening economy.  The gist of the segment went something like this: The 'mainstream' media is purposely reporting that the economy is sour, so things will look much worse than they are, in an effort to make the world appear rosy and wonderful once President-elect Barack Obama takes office. After Jan. 20, 2009, the host said, newspapers and television stations will begin telling the world how much better things have gotten.  I might, to some degree, buy that argument when talking about 24-hour news networks, which fill empty space and time by asking some dim bulb to speculate on what might happen if something else does or doesn't happen.  But for the most part, this was a ridiculous statement. It requires one to ignore that most of this economic information comes from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Treasury Department and economic experts from across the county. Some of it even comes directly from retailers and manufacturers, who certainly don't have anything to gain by spreading dismal economic news.  And it also assumes that the media somehow are immune to negative economic conditions or that the industry is willing to cannibalize itself by hastening America's economic destruction.  A statement like that makes about as much sense as eating a sno-cone in January.  ***  I received a nice Christmas surprise in the mail last week - a personal property tax notice from Reno County.  While the amount of the tax shocked me a little, what really grabbed me was the due date on the first half of the tax - Dec. 22, 2008.  That's right, three days before Christmas I have to settle up with Reno County and the state of Kansas.  Just to show I'm in the Christmas spirit, I might mail the check in a box that otherwise could have held a Christmas present - complete with a ribbon and bow.  Jason Probst is news editor of The Hutchinson News. E-mail: jprobst@hutchnews.com.  0 comment(s) found!  Leave a comment!  Notice about comments:  HutchNews.com is pleased to offer readers the ability to comment on stories. We expect our readers to engage in lively, yet civil discourse. HutchNews.com does not edit user submitted statements and we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted in the comments area. Responsibility for the statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not HutchNews.com. If you find a comment that is objectionable, please click the link above, give us the headline or URL of the story, and we will review it for possible removal. IP addresses are logged and offenders may be blocked from commenting. Please be reminded, however, that in accordance with our Terms of Use and federal law, we are under no obligation to remove any third party comments posted on our Web site.  
