RISK, ONCE AGAIN, IS SOLD Even before the automaker deal fell apart in the U.S. Senate, Asian shares had already been under pressure because of unease about the shrinking financial sector and economic malaise. Bank of America Corp said it plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs over the next three years, while JPMorgan's chief executive described the bank's performance in the last few months as 'terrible.''It shouldn't come as a surprise that Asian equity markets are selling off today on news of the U.S. auto bailout failure,' said Tim Rocks, equity strategist with Macquarie Securities in Hong Kong. 'For Asia, the major issue is how much damage is being done to earnings and balance sheets, and we won't know until February when companies announce fourth-quarter earnings,' he said. The rapid shift out of risky assets on Friday propelled the yen higher. The U.S. dollar fell as low as 88.40 yen, the lowest since 1995, before recovering to around 89.75 yen. The yen's spike prompted Japan's top financial diplomat, Naoyuki Shinohara, to say the currency movements were too volatile and the moves in the foreign exchange market were being watched with concern. However, Shoichi Nakagawa, the country's finance minister, said it was not considering intervening, according to Bloomberg. The last time the Bank of Japan intervened in the market, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, to cap the yen was in 2004. 'Without an intervention, the dollar could hit 85 yen, so Japan will likely intervene to prevent that from happening,' said Masafumi Yamamoto, head of foreign exchange strategy with Royal Bank of Scotland in Tokyo. 'The worst case scenario for Japanese authorities is that the yen's appreciation pushes down Japanese share prices which will further aggravate of the economy, and they see it happening now.' In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year note , which moves in the opposite direction of the price, slipped to 2.48 percent, the lowest in more than 50 years. Maturities of less than a year traded at barely any yield at all, with the 3-month bill yield flitting between 1.5 basis points and zero. Year-end is usually a time when global investors and corporates pile into the highly liquid short-term U.S. debt market to keep cash safe and dress up balance sheets. However, the ferocity of the global economic slowdown this year has made 2009's prospects particularly grim. U.S. light crude for January 2009 delivery tumbled $2.08 to $45.90 a barrel, creeping back down toward a four-year low of $40.50 hit earlier in the month. Remarks from OPEC President Chakib Khelil overnight about the need for a big cut in production increased speculation among traders that supply will be cut by 1-2 million barrels per day. ((For the state of play of Asian stock markets please click on: )) (Additional reporting by Xi Chen; Editing by Kim Coghill) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL (Reuters Messaging:kevin.plumberg.reuters.com@reuters.net Email: kevin.plumberg@thomsonreuters.com; +852 2843-6370)
