(RTTNews) - US stocks were set to end the week on a dismal note Friday morning in New York after Senate Republican leaders refused to go along with the rescue plan for Ford, General Motors and Chrysler.  As of 6 am ET, the S&amp;amp;P Futures were down 35 points, the NASDAQ Futures were down 41 points, and the Dow Futures were down 259 points.  US stocks accelerated to the downside in late day trading Thursday, as investors liquidated some of their holdings on fears that the markets have not yet found a bottom.  A continuous stream of negative corporate news has taken a toll on sentiment around the world.   Asian stocks were hammered overnight, with the Hang Seng of Hong Kong falling 5.5 percent and Tokyo's Nikkei plunged 5.6 percent. Japan announced a new stimulus package to shore up the country's economy.  In European intraday dealing, the FTSE of the UK was down 3.3 percent, the DAX of Germany was down 4 percent, and the CAC of France was down 4.8 percent.  A compromise plan to provide emergency funding to the U.S. auto industry was shot down in the Senate late Thursday evening, as talks collapsed when Republican leaders refused to go along with the rescue plan for the Big Three Detroit car manufacturers  The major sticking point, according to the Republican senate leaders, was the unwillingness of the United Auto Workers union to accept reductions in employee compensation as part of a deal.  Following the collapse of the bailout, the dollar plunged to a 13-year low of 88.15 versus the yen.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) said Thursday that it expects to cut 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over the next three years.  Telecommunications equipment maker Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) said it would reduce the number of managers by about 1,000 and the number of contractors by approximately 5,000. The new job cuts are in addition to the 16,500 jobs that Alcatel-Lucent has already planned to cut by 2009.   The Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday charged Bernard Madoff and his investment firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, with securities fraud for a multi-billion dollar Ponzi scheme.  In its complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan, SEC alleges that Madoff informed two senior employees that his investment advisory business was a fraud and estimated the losses from this fraud were at least $50 billion.  Economic data is likely to be in focus on Friday, as the Labor Department is due to release its report on wholesale price inflation in the month of November and the Commerce Department is due to release its report on November retail sales.  While the Labor Department report is expected to show that wholesale prices fell by 2.0 percent in November due in part to a continued drop in energy prices, the Commerce Department is expected to show that November retail sales also fell by 2.0 percent.  For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com  Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
