Oil futures made a paradigm shift and climbed for the first time in seven long trading days on the prospect of an almost rubber-stamped OPEC production quota cut in little under two weeks time.   New Yorks main contract: light, sweet crude for January delivery gained by as much as 6.5%, to $43.47, a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) in late afternoon trading in Singapore.  In other NYMEX trading heating oil gained 5.80c, to $1.48 a gallon, while natural gas for January delivery slid 20.6c, to 5.59 per 1,000 cubic feet.  The trend was echoed in London on the ICE Futures exchange with Brent crude up at $43.01 by 10:42 GMT. Copper futures also rose by as much as 7.3% in the British capital. Corn followed suit advancing 5.4%.  The U.S. contract had fallen by nearly $3 on Friday settling at $40.81, having fallen as low as $40.50 during trading  to hit its lowest price for an astonishing four years, since December 2004.  At the end of a week which saw oil fall at its steepest rate since 1991, Chakib Khelil, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries President, announced that a severe reduction of output quotas was set to be enforced at the cartels upcoming meeting in Algeria on December 17.  David Moore, a commodity strategist with Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. Said: Pessimism about the international outlook has remained intense.  However, he added: Concerns about weakening oil demand have not gone away. You have to look at today's movement in the oil price in light of the ferocious decline over the past week.  This decline was the product of increasingly gloomy U.S. data showing the true onset of the recession. According to figures the U.S. economy lost 533,000 jobs in November, the most since 1950.  Tetsu Emori, a Tokyo-based chief manager of Astmax Commodity Global Macro Fund, offered an equaling damning forecast, stating: The oil price is now on the brink of an abyss.  Even if the cartel makes a substantial production cut, it wont be enough to lift oil prices back up to the $60 mark if we see more drops in U.S. consumer spending, he continued.  Amid the justified skepticism you could bet your full petrol tank that OPEC, who pumps more than 40% of the worlds oil, will ruthlessly attempt to arrest falling prices in the coming weeks. Khelil is on record stating that a consensus had formed among the 13-member group of the paramount need for a reduction in output.  
