Beijingis looking to lend a total of US$35 billion to help Brazil and Russia develop mega energy projects, taking advantage of increasingly tough global credit conditions to drive the mainland's energy security.  Chinese officials have proposed lending state-controlled Petrobras US$10 billion for the development of new deep-sea oilfields off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, Mines and Energy Minister Edison Lobao was quoted by the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper as saying.  Reuters reported China would resume talks to provide US$25 billion to Russian state-controlled oil major Rosneft and monopoly pipeline operator Transneft, in exchange for securing oil supplies for 20 years.  The talks, previously held in China, had stumbled due to disagreements over interest rates and state guarantees, sources told Reuters last month.  Rosneft, Russia's largest oil exporter to China, has a stretched balance sheet, partly because of its US$6 billion acquisition in 2004 of former rival and bankrupt Yukos.  In a move seen to help Rosneft finance the deal, China National Petroleum Corp, with the help of China Development Bank, reportedly pre-paid the Russian firm US$6 billion in 2005 for oil to be bought in the future.  Transneft, on the other hand, is in talks to build a 600,000 barrels a day oil pipeline from resource-rich East Siberia to the eastern seaboard, targeting the Korean, Japanese and United States markets. Transneft is also in talks with Beijing to build a spur line from Siberia to China.  Crude oil's 70 per cent price decline in the past five months and the credit crunch have constrained Petrobras, Rosneft and Transneft's capacity to finance their huge investment plans. Oil is trading at about US$44 a barrel compared with a high of US$147 in July.  Petrobras said it discovered 50 billion to 80 billion barrels of oil reserves over the past year and was gearing up to spend hundreds of billions of dollars during the next 30 years to extract the oil.  Deep-sea projects were only profitable at crude prices of US$35 to US$60 a barrel, industry officials said.  'Such loans are unprecedented and carry significant exploration and political risks,' said Gordon Kwan, CLSA's head of China energy research. 'But lending money to Brazil and Russia for long-term energy projects is good diversification from investing most of China's foreign exchange reserves in US treasury bonds. This win-win arrangement will also enable China to hedge their bets on the Middle East and Africa.'  China imports 50 per cent of its oil needs, up from 40 per cent four years ago. It has been aggressively investing in oil projects abroad, especially in Southeast and Central Asia, Africa and South America, where it faces less political opposition.  Although Petrobras is the world's 14th-largest oil producer by market value, analysts say Brazil is poised to overtake Venezuela as the largest oil producer in South America within a decade. In the first 10 months of the year, Brazil was the 15th-largest oil exporter to China, while Venezuela was the seventh and Russia fifth.  Petrobras' leadership and expertise in deep-sea oil drilling would also be something mainland oil companies could tap into.  China National Offshore Oil Corp last month said it planned to spend 200 billion yuan (HK$225.5 billion) with its partners to develop oil and gas in China's offshore virgin deep-sea territories. It has invited Petrobras to jointly explore the oilfields.  Petrobras have signed memorandums of understanding with China Petrochemical Corp, the parent of Sinopec Corp (SEHK: 0386), and with China National Petroleum Corp, PetroChina (SEHK: 0857, announcements, news) 's parent, to co-operate on upstream and downstream oil and gas projects.  
