TMXU dug out some of my old DD on Brian Sherer and Cagan Mcaffee. Took these guys long enough to finally do something with this one.... TMXU background info Brian Sherer from Silicon Valley Bank and Cagan Mcafee Capital Partners. TMXU ADDRESS PER NEVADA SOS 10600 N. De Anza Blvd., Suite 250 Cupertino, CA 95014 Same address Cagan McAfee Capital Partners, LLC 10600 N. De Anza Blvd., Suite 250 Cupertino, CA 95014 http://www.cmcp.com/index2.html CMCP has specialized in the Slow Launch Public Offering. With a capability and breadth unique in the market, CMCP is able to guide a high growth private company into the public area with all the resources to provide the necessary capital, legal expertise and Investor Relations services to maximize the likelihood of success. CMCP has successfully launched over 10 companies in this manner in the past five years, bringing in excess of $300 million of capital to these companies and generating in excess of $2 billion of market value. Here is a list of the deals Cagan Mcafee has done and the share prices. PEIX $9.00 EPM $3.10 PDRT $3.60 MWII $11.75 WDWT .25 PKT $2.78 PFAP $13.25 (Brian Sherer and Cagan Mcafee) TMXU new CEO Brian Sherer, works doing venture capital deals for Silicon Valley Bank. What gets me is the dollar totals in equity he is able to raise. 17 million, 20 million, 19 million. This guy makes the Meuses, Anthonys and Smiths look like small time players. SVB SILICON VALLEY BANK BROADENS EXPERTISE WITH ADDITION OF NEW TECHNOLOGY AND PRIVATE EQUITY FINANCING SPECIALIST SANTA CLARA, Calif., December 4, 2006 - SVB Silicon Valley Bank, the premier commercial bank nationwide for technology and life science companies of all sizes, hired Brian Sherer as a managing director in Corporate Finance. Effective immediately, Sherer will broaden the company's efforts to arrange and structure debt and banking solutions to select technology and life science firms across the U.S., focusing exclusively on those with private equity backing. SVB Silicon Valley Bank, located in 27 cities across the U.S., is the commercial banking subsidiary of SVB Financial Group (Nasdaq: SIVB). "For more than twenty years, we have provided innovative, creative financing solutions to technology, life science and private equity firms," said Greg Becker, chief operating officer, SVB Silicon Valley Bank. "Brian's experience and expertise with the buyout community will help us bring our unique understanding of the technology industry's financial needs to this market. We look forward to leveraging Brian's knowledge and long track record in the technology financing and private equity industries to better serve our clients." Sherer has spent his career developing and providing innovative and complex debt products to technology companies. Most recently, Sherer was a senior vice president at Wells Fargo Foothill, where he focused heavily on private equity-backed acquisition financing. He has also held senior sales and banking positions with GE Corporate Finance, Greyrock Capital Group, Bank of America and Heller Financial, Inc. Sherer earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and is a regular speaker at technology and M&amp;A financing conferences. SVB Silicon Valley Bank Provides Financing for Francisco Partners' Acquisition of Dairyland Healthcare Solutions 7/11/2007 SANTA CLARA, Calif., July 11, 2007 /PRNewswire via COMTEX News Network/ -- SVB Silicon Valley Bank, the premier commercial bank for technology and life science companies of all sizes, today announced that it provided $23 million in financing to assist Francisco Partners, one of the world's largest technology-focused private equity investment firms, in its acquisition of Dairyland Healthcare Solutions. Dairyland is a leading provider of comprehensive information systems to community hospitals and health care systems nationwide. The financing is evidence of SVB Silicon Valley Bank's growing activity in the technology buyout arena and its ability to and provide structured debt and banking solutions to private equity firms. "We're proud to work with Francisco Partners. This is the second time we've helped them execute a sizeable buyout in the last three months," said Brian Sherer, managing director at SVB Silicon Valley Bank. "SVB has been working with venture-backed companies over the last 25 years, our deep relationships and experience with the VC community continues to translate well in the private equity arena." About Dairyland Healthcare Solutions Since Dairyland's founding in 1980, the company has become a leading provider of comprehensive information systems to community hospitals and health care systems nationwide. Dairyland is committed to providing highly functional, cost effective information systems, as well as the highest level of service possible to its customers. The company is headquartered in Glenwood, Minn. More information on the company can be found at http://www.dhsnet.com. About Francisco Partners Francisco Partners, with approximately $5 billion of committed capital, is one of the world's largest technology-focused private equity investment firms. The firm, headquartered in Menlo Park, Calif., was founded to pursue structured investments in technology companies undergoing strategic, technological and operational inflection points. For more information on Francisco Partners, go to http://www.franciscopartners.com. About SVB Silicon Valley Bank SVB Silicon Valley Bank provides commercial banking services to emerging growth and mature companies in the technology, life science, private equity and premium wine industries. Through its focus on specialized markets and extensive knowledge of the people and business issues driving them, SVB Silicon Valley Bank provides a level of service and partnership that measurably impacts its clients' success. Founded in 1983 and headquartered in Santa Clara, Calif., the company serves clients around the world through 27 U.S. offices and three international operations. SVB Silicon Valley Bank is a member of global financial services firm SVB Financial Group, with SVB Alliant, SVB Analytics, SVB Capital, SVB Global and SVB Private Client Services. For more information on SVB Silicon Valley Bank, go to http://www.svb.com.
