         Mark,   I'd be interested if you could elaborate on this comment. I'm not quite sure where we've got to on this "mark to model" vs "mark to market" debate (or is it other regulatory matters you're referring to?). AFAIAA firm decisions haven't been taken yet &amp; things are still in a state of flux. Perhaps regulators should have acted faster to reach a clear &amp; sensible decision? Are we now more "globalised" than we were in the 80s and does this make it more difficult for individual countries to make such decisions than it used to be?   In part I was referring to the mark to model/market debate, the increased capital requirements and the more recent FSA decision to relax capital ratios to get the banks lending again. If only we were back in the much simpler world of the 1980s. In hindsight, and isn't hindsight wonderful, the authorities got it right back then by allowing the banks time to build up their reserves to cover their losses rather than pulling the plug immediately. Also it was much easier to understand what the problem was.   In the main these were straightforward loans and trade facilities. Nothing complex. All the lenders were working with a common purpose so the major lenders to each country formed Steering Groups to negotiate with the borrowers and represent the views of their constituents on a geographic basis. For example Citibank, Chase representing US banks, Lloyds representing UK banks, Deutsche representing German banks etc. In essence the borrowers had cashflow problems so the loans were refinanced and the trade facilities rolled over and extended. With the loans performing again it was also easier to argue that provision levels were adequate. Unfortunately that wasn't the end of the story and banks were eventually forced to take a haircut when the Brady Plan was launched which collateralised the outstanding debt.   I think part of the current problem is the speed with which events unfolded coupled with the regulators and governments not really understanding what was the cause of it. Requiring banks to raise more capital and lend more money was clearly a nonsense.  There are also too many conflicting messages out there. I'm also not sure whether there would be competition issues if other countries didn't follow the FSA 'lead' in relaxing capital ratios.  Possibly it will only be with hindsight what measures actaully worked and what measures added to the mess.                  
