           http://money.cnn.com/news/newsfeeds/articles/djf500/200809180647DOWJONESDJONLINE000449_FORTUNE5.htm   LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Cordinated action by leading central banks to pump short- term dollar funding into the money markets will help bring overnight dollar lending rates down but  won&amp;amp;#039;t help banks longer-term cash needs.   As a result, interbank rates continued to push higher Thursday as banks remain wary of lending to each other for any length of time.  &amp;amp;quot;We&amp;amp;#039;re back to where we were last summer when central banks managed to get overnight markets working but, for term markets to start working, counterparties need to start trusting each other and there&amp;amp;#039;s nothing they can really do about that,&amp;amp;quot; said Ralf Preusser, head of European rates strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Central banks first pumped liquidity into the money markets in August last year when interbank lending ground to a halt, although the U.S. Federal Reserve didn&amp;amp;#039;t start providing dollar funds through overseas central banks until December.  Banks, which are currently grateful for any help with financing, welcomed the central bank action, which will relieve demand for dollars at the short end of the money markets. Rates for U.S. dollar funding rose more sharply than for other currencies in Europe this week.  But the spreads between longer-term interbank lending rates and swap rates, which reflect concern about counterparty credit risk in the money markets, continued to push higher Thursday.  The six-month sterling spread has risen to 131.5 basis points at 1000 GMT from 123.4 Wednesday, the U.S. dollar spread increased to 157.1 basis points from 156.4 basis points and the euro spread rose to 106.6 basis points from 100 basis points.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Thursday it had increased the amount of dollar funds it could provide through reciprocal currency swap arrangements with other central banks to $247 billion from an existing $67 billion.  The liquidity will be provided through existing funding channels with the European Central Bank and Swiss National Bank and new arrangements set up with the Bank of England, the Bank of Canada and the Bank of Japan.  The amount of funding that can be provided through the ECB will rise to $110 billion from $55 billion while, through the SNB, it will rise to $27 billion from $12 billion. A further $60 billion can flow through the BOJ, $40 billion through the BOE and $10 billion through the Bank of Canada.  The ECB and SNB said they will increase dollar funding through longer-term auctions which should help relieve some of the longer-term demand for dollars.  The demand for U.S dollar funds from European banks has been extremely high this week. When concerns about the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ( LEH) and funding problems at insurance company American International Group Inc. (AIG) reached their zenith Tuesday, the cost of borrowing dollars overnight in Europe more than doubled to 6.43% from 3.10% Monday. The rate eased slightly Wednesday but remained elevated at 5.03%.  Whenever global funding pressures rise, banks outside the U.S. find it difficult to funds their sizable dollar positions in the market.  Many banks outside the U.S. don&amp;amp;#039;t have access to the Fed&amp;amp;#039;s dollar liquidity injections and, even if they have parent companies that do, there are often restrictions on the rates they can then charge their subsidiaries to borrow dollars.  The British Bankers Association, a body that represents the interests of 230 banks operating in the U.K., welcomed the action by central banks.  &amp;amp;quot;It&amp;amp;#039;s welcome that central banks are working together in recognition that the current market issues are global in nature,&amp;amp;quot; said Brian Mairs, a spokesman for the BBA.  Sentiment in credit derivatives markets, where protection against company defaults is traded, improved slightly Thursday, most likely on speculation that Morgan Stanley (MS) may be involved in a merger.  At 1000 GMT, the Markit iTraxx Europe index, which measures the cost of default insurance on 125 investment grade European corporate borrowers, was trading around 132 basis points, compared with a closing level Wednesday of 145 basis points.  But market analysts said the provision of short-term dollar liquidity in the money markets won&amp;amp;#039;t solve the main problem for banks which is that they aren&amp;amp;#039;t lending to each other. Unsecured markets remain all but closed and terms in the securities repurchase, or repo, markets have become much stricter this week.  Banks are also expected to need to raise capital to cover losses that emerge from exposures to Lehman Brothers through trades that won&amp;amp;#039;t pay out or hedges that no longer exist. The only thing that will bring back a greater confidence in lending is clarity about what bank exposures to banks such as Lehman are, say analysts.  &amp;amp;quot;At this stage, we need to see again who has what exposure to whom, what losses, what writedowns there are, whose business model survives and whose doesn&amp;amp;#039;t and who&amp;amp;#039;s left at the end,&amp;amp;quot; said Preusser. 
