Having worked in investment banking I&amp;#039;m probably able to explain this on a level every should get as I struggled for months listening to jargon before I got the big picture.  It all starts off with company A having saying 1million in capital  They will only loan to safe, low risk borrowers, such as people with steady jobs and good credit scores. The will charge a minimal amount of repayments as these borrowers really can go anywhere, so they dont want to lose custom. So company A will make a steady and secure return on their 1million of capital, and as a result people will feel safe investing in them as they know there stock is safe.  Now take company B who also have 1million in capital.  These people target borrowers who are maybe unemployed, in unstable jobs, have bad payment history. These people cannot get credit in most normal places so the company can charge extortionate rates for repayments to these people to justify the risk of lending to them. The result for this is that they make a hell of a lot more on their capital, even with the percentage that default (dont pay) they still will make more than company A.  The result of this is that they rely on stocks and share investments as they cannot predict the income based on repayments, shareholders get better returns on their money as its a riskier investment.  This is all fine and dandy until we have a few wars and the like and the economy gets into debt and the currency get weaker, the economy suffers so you see more companies who rely on international trade make lay offs.  With more lay offs you have more people missing payments and needing to turn to these high interest rate and high risk lenders. Presently we have more people than ever defaulting on payments, which normally the bank can handle. However it gets to a point where the company (bank) doesnt have enough money to operate on a daily basis and cannot get the money in fast enough.  The following happens in very short order  Bank starts to borrow more from other banks to pay off short term debt  Shareholders cash in shares for fear of the price going down (bank has even less money) Or in the case of Northern Rock, people withdraw all their savings...same effect  The media hypes it up and people lose faith in the company  The company has to engage in higher risk to generate the enormous short term capital it needs to avoid going bust or being bought out.   Now generally this will only happen to one or two companies in a short space of time, at the moment its having a knock on effect where eveyone is going bust and huge coorporations are buying them up at knockdown prices or merging with rivals to increase the collective capital.   The key thing to remember is, the bigger your capital reserves and &amp;amp;quot;balance sheets&amp;amp;quot; the more you can afford to loose short term as you can still operate at a loss while you pursue the debt and eventually recover it.  The sad fact is that as companies start to go down, people abandon them and make matters worse (not judging them as it might be their life savings on the line)  The other bad thing is companies comitting huge frauds to close deals and make the short term money, or short selling shares to drive the price down, which is what caused Lehman Brothers to go under and get bought out by those heartless bunch of bankers Barclays.  Trust me when I say we are going to see things go a fair bit worse before they get better. I can see a few more mergers to help the short term problem, but this will sadly result in a monopoly on the markets which doesnt help us the consumers when there are only a few giant high street banks 5 years down the line.  Right Credit Crunch 101 class is over...any more questions see me afterwards   
