SYDNEY, Sept 19 (Reuters) - The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) injected enough money into money markets on Friday to keep commercial banks&amp;#039; cash cushion with the central bank at a record high, though funding pressures still pushed longer-term bill rates higher.    In its regular daily money market operation, the RBA added A$2.03 billion ($1.6 billion) in repurchase agreements, while draining A$1.0 billion through a same-day forex swap.    The net effect was to keep commercial banks&amp;#039; balances with the RBA around a record A$6.97 billion.    The central bank has been generous with liquidity this week in an attempt to soften the impact of the global credit crisis.    In new steps on Thursday, the U.S. Federal Reserve made an extra $180 billion available to other major central banks to lend to their local commercial banks in a bid to get U.S. dollars circulating in overnight and short-term money markets.    The latest move brought to $247 billion the total amount of dollars the Fed was providing to other central banks. The Fed also pumped an extra $105 billion dollars into the U.S. market (see).    The RBA was not formally part of this effort, in part because money markets here have not been nearly as badly affected as those in the United States and UK.    Still, Australian bank bill rates have been pushed higher as banks everywhere hoard cash. Three-month bank bill swap rates were at seven-week highs of 7.49 percent on Friday, unusually far above the overnight cash rate of 7.0 percent.    A key measure of funding pressure in Australia is the spread between three-month bank bill rates and three-month overnight index swap (OIS) rates. That surged to a record of 95 basis points, up from around 33 basis points at the start of the month.    Bank bill/OIS spreads are seen as an indication of banks&amp;#039; willingness to lend to one another, with a wider spread suggesting tougher lending conditions.    OIS rates essentially indicate where the market thinks the RBA&amp;#039;s key cash rate is heading. They have fallen sharply this week as investors assumed the central bank would be forced to cut rates at its next policy meeting in October to offset the tightening in financial markets.    (Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by Jonathan Standing)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
