      opentv, when you say that a company like Lehman Brothers is worthless, you are confusing the selling price of the company&amp;#039;s stock on the stock exchange with the real assets (i.e. real estate, bonds, mortgages etc) which the company owns. The stock may be worthless, but the company can have value. The company may simply owe more money that it currently has cash on hand to pay creditors. Then it may face bankruptcy or be forced into a takeover sale.  AIG Insurance, for instance, is not worthless. It needed time to sell some of it&amp;#039;s assets in order to avoid bankruptcy. So the government just loaned AIG $85 billion in order to give it, hopefully, enough time to do that. That loan must be repaid to the feds, otherwise the American taxpayer will take a big hit.  Similarly, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not worthless--if they were, why would the federal government want to acquire them? No one will purchase, bail-out, or loan money to a worthless entity.  And, when one company takesover or buys out another floundering company, at a bargain price, the buyer is speculating they will eventually make a profit or gain of some sort on the purchase.  So, we&amp;#039;re not necessarilly talking about worthless companies--even though the selling price of their stock may be down the toilet.    In terms of individual homeowners, they have been affected in various ways.  Some people were lured into adjustable-rate mortgages by very low promotional rates. They could afford those initial rates, but, when the rates then re-adjusted, and were suddenly significantly higher, many found they could not make their mortgage payments. They either had to try to sell the house quickly, or they faced foreclosure. The more this happened, and the more houses there were on the martket, the more the value of the homes declined. So, even if one managed to sell their home, the selling price was often much less than the mortgage they still owed to the lender who had enabled them to buy the home. So, even after selling the home, they still owed money to the lender. If they couldn&amp;#039;t sell the home, and went into foreclosure, the bank or lender might be stuck with a house they couldn&amp;#039;t sell, because of market conditions, or a house they could sell only at a significant loss.  That same scenario coud also happen with any adjustable rate mortgage or interest only mortgage when the rates suddenly go up.  Many people who already had regular fixed rate mortgages have been hit by unemployment, or simply found themselves cash strapped due to rising inflation--the rising cost of gas, home heating oil, food, or sudden medical expenses--and they couldn&amp;#039;t make mortgage payments. Again, if they could manage to sell their home, the selling price might not pay off their existing mortgage (which was based on market value when they bought their home, and the market might have been higher or inflated when they bought the home). If they can&amp;#039;t sell the home, they will wind up in foreclosure. Too many homes on the market makes it hard to sell one. The lender/mortgage broker/bank then starts to lose revenue because they can&amp;#039;t sell the home either.   Other people leveraged their homes with home equity loans. This allowed them to draw cash value out of their homes, which they could then use for any purpose they wanted--to pay credit card debt, do home improvements, pay children&amp;#039;s college tuition, go on a vacation, etc.. They got these loans based on the market value of their home at the time of the loan. But the rates on such loans often adjusted upward, making monthly payments more expensive. Or life circumstance problems suddenly make it impossible for them to meet their monthly loan payments. Then they must try to sell their home, or the bank/lender can take the home since that was collateral for the loan. But the lender or bank may not be able to sell it in a stagnant market, so they start losing money.  A major reason many people lose their homes is due to sudden medical problems and the high cost of medical care. Then they can&amp;#039;t make mortgage payments. Or they may have taken home equity loans to get money to pay medical bills, and then can&amp;#039;t pay the loan back.  Our unemployment rate has also been rising. If people lose jobs, they might wind up getting lower paying jobs then they had before and then can&amp;#039;t meet mortgage or loan payments and may not be able to sell their home in a stagnant market. So, foreclosure follows.  We currently have a glut of unsold homes on the market, due in large part to foreclosures, that is much worse in certain parts of the country than others. That then affects new housing construction, and general real estate values, and other related industries. And it affects the revenues of the banks and investment houses that own these properties that are just sitting there unoccupied, and continuing to drop in value. This then sends ripples throughout the entire credit market, that affects other markets, and eventually you wind up with a tidal wave affecting the entire economy.       Edited by chelseabelle (Wed Sep 17 2008 02:47 PM)            
