       Reset loans add to US home woes  By Saskia Scholtes in New York  Published: September 1 2008 23:38   Last updated: September 1 2008 23:38  The stricken US mortgage market is set to suffer further setbacks in the next two years as $96bn of risky home loans sold with initial flexible payment options switch to more stringent terms.  These will raise borrowers monthly payments by about 60 per cent.  The changing terms could more than double the number of borrowers falling behind on so-called option adjustable rate mortgages issued between 2004 and 2007.  This is according to research published Tuesday by Fitch Ratings.  Option ARMs allow borrowers to choose a low minimum monthly payment that often falls short of the interest due on the loan, typically for five years.  The difference between the minimum and the full payment is added to the mortgage balance.  This ability to borrow more before having to start repayment is known as negative amortisation.  At the five-year mark, the loan terms are recast and the monthly payment is increased to ensure the full repayment of the loan by maturity.  Late payments and defaults on such mortgages are already running as high as 24 per cent in some areas, said Fitch.  It added that the potential average payment increase on recasting loans was 63 per cent.  In cash terms this amounted to an average of $1,053 extra due each month.  The combined impact of payment shock ... declining home prices and restricted availability of mortgage credit may leave many option ARM borrowers unwilling to continue paying their mortgage, said Huxley Somerville, analyst at Fitch Ratings.  The current severe environment has left borrowers with few alternatives to foreclosure, he added.  Mr Somerville said the ARM market had the highest proportion of borrowers with limited proof of income at more than 80 per cent of loans. This increased the likelihood of default.  Borrowers who used the [minimum payment] option to extend themselves into larger houses could easily be overwhelmed by the higher mortgage costs, he said.  The bulk of the $200bn of outstanding option ARMs will not hit their five-year anniversaries until after 2010.  Many option ARMs, however, have a limit on negative amortisation  typically between 110 per cent and 125 per cent of the original loan amount.  If a borrower hits this limit, the loan can recast much earlier.  Fitch expects roughly $29bn of option ARMs to recast to higher monthly payments by the end of 2009 and an additional $67bn to recast in 2010.  Fitch anticipates that more than half of these will be as a result of stressed borrowers hitting their negative amortisation ceilings.  About three-quarters of option ARM borrowers chose to make just the minimum payment on their loan over the last two years, according to LoanPerformance, a mortgage research provider.  With many borrowers approaching their negative amortisation limits, accelerating loan recasts could exacerbate the housing slump in some of the most stressed markets, said Fitch. More than half of existing option ARM loans are in California, according to data from Barclays Capital.  Because of their use as an affordability product, option ARM defaults will likely spread into higher priced neighbourhoods, as many borrowers leveraged the very low minimum monthly payment to buy more expensive homes, said Mr Somerville at Fitch.  
