Economist.com      European banks  Cross-border contagion Sep 18th 2008 From The Economist print edition   HBOSs troubles give everyone a bit extra to worry about  JOHN PIERPONT MORGAN, it is said, whiled away the time while orchestrating a plan to avert the financial crisis of 1907 by steadfastly playing solitaire. A century later, the game du jour involves toying with dominoes. Funds and traders are casting about for the next banks to fall (and enthusiastically selling their shares).  So far most of the falling stones have been American. But some European banks are also teetering. The latest is HBOS, a well-capitalised but weakly funded British bank that will lose its independence. On September 18th HBOS, Britains biggest mortgage lender, said it had agreed to be taken over by Lloyds TSB, another of the countrys leading banks. There was government pressure, but both sides denied there had been a bail-out. Any hint of one would infuriate shareholders of Northern Rock, another British mortgage lender that was nationalised last year. They were largely wiped out.  Worries about the wholesale markets intensified, not just for HBOS, but all European banks, on September 16th, when Reserve Primary, a money-market fund, froze withdrawals for a week. Its troubles caused huge surges in the cost of borrowing money overnight (see chart). I dont want to sound alarmist, but the liquidity squeeze were experiencing now is worse than it was in August 2007 [at the start of the credit crunch], observes one trader.     Although the shortage of money is most acute for dollar-denominated loans, some of Europes biggest banks are also exposed to this market because they generally do not have dollar deposits and rely largely on money and capital markets to fund their investment banks. Among those affected are Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank and UBS, all of which saw huge jumps in the price of insuring their debt against default.  This reflected not just the spike in rates they are having to pay to borrow dollars (with some smaller outfits said to be paying as much as 12% for three-month money, according to money-market traders). There was also the worry that they face losses on loans and derivatives contracts with firms that are either bankrupt, such as Lehman, or suddenly less than creditworthy, such as AIG. Arturo De Frias of Dresdner Kleinwort estimates that European banks may end up with losses of about $31 billion on short-term loans to Lehman.  Just as big a concern for banks in Britain and Europe is whether the hotchpotch of regulatory systems across the continent could cope with a bank failure. The American authorities have been nimble enough, yet their agility has not quelled the panic. Their European counterparts are still arguing about who should be in charge and what should be done.  The trials of HBOS, which owns the Halifax, a building society, highlight a particular uncertainty faced by British banks. Even as the banks share price and bond spreads weakened this week, the Bank of England dithered over whether to renew its facility for letting British banks swap mortgages for funds. It announced an extension on September 17th, after news of HBOSs talks with Lloyds had leaked out. British banks are also lobbying against parts of a long-overdue proposal by the authorities to deal with ailing banks.  For other European banks, there is trepidation not about whether their governments or central banks are willing to support them, but whether they can. Some of Europes biggest banks, such as UBS, ING and Fortis, are based in some of its smallest countries such as Switzerland, the Netherlands and Belgium. If one were to fail, the fallout might well make Americas recent upheavals look orderly.  Copyright  2008 The Economist Newspaper and The Economist Group. All rights reserved.   http://www.economist.com/finance/displa ... d=12274104  
