LEBANON - A couple with a premature newborn have been showered with gifts and encouragement after a relative wrote a letter to the editor pleading for help.  Heather Griffin wrote to the Democrat-Herald on behalf of her brother, Jeramie Griffin, and his girlfriend, Megan Garrison. The two became the parents of Lexi Ann Garrison on Jan. 19, 10 weeks before her expected due date on March 27.  The couple have been living off and on in a trailer in Eugene since, to be near the baby while she stays in the neonatal intensive care unit at Sacred Heart Regional Medical Center. Their older children - Jeramie has three and Megan, one - are living temporarily with family.  Jeramie, 31, a concrete finisher, had lost his job earlier this month. Megan, 26, a bartender, had been sick on and off during the pregnancy and unable to work. Neither had yet purchased diapers or other baby supplies, believing they had a few weeks to wait.  Lexi arrived at not quite 21/2 pounds and struggling to breathe on her own. Doctors performed an emergency  C-section because of her slow heart rate during Megans contractions, Heather wrote.  Her letter describing the familys dire straits appeared in the D-H on Jan. 23.  Readers opened both hearts and wallets for the family, prompting Heather to open an account at US Bank for the family to handle some of the donations.  Jeramie and Megan also registered at Walmart for some of Lexis needs, and people have been filling those, Heather said.Its been amazing, she said, ticking off the donations: baby clothes, diapers, food, bath sets, a bassinet, bouncy chairs and a high chair. Somebody even offered Jeramie temporary concrete work.At first they were overwhelmed with, 'What are we going to do now, and now its 'Can you believe it? People we dont even know! Heather said.Megan said the family is extremely grateful to everyone who has helped to fill Lexis needs.Its so wonderful, she said by telephone from the hospital as she held the baby, who is now off oxygen and is starting to gain weight.I never would have imagined the amount of help. ... Every day we go home, theres something hanging on our door, or we get a letter in the mail.The two dont know most of the letter writers, many of whom tell them they, too, struggled with a premature baby.Its just really nice to hear, 'God bless you, things will get better, she said. A little weird, but wonderful.
