 Howell's experience in the rugged Shore Conference Class A North helped it outlast Brick Memorial, 58-56, in overtime of a nondivisional game on Saturday.'We have been playing such great teams in Class A North . . . CBA, Freehold Township and Middletown South,' Howell coach Brian Quick said. 'And we get an out of division game and it's against one of the top teams.' Howell (3-6) outscored Brick Memorial (6-3) 4-2 in the extra session.  Senior forwards Brian McDonough and Chris Katona scored in overtime as the Rebels held on. Overall, McDonough scored 12 points and grabbed five rebounds.  Howell sophomore point guard Ryan Keegan converted on a pair of two-shot fouls en route to seven fourth-quarter points and a team-high 14. Katona finished with four rebounds, four assists and three steals. 'Our guys are battle-tested,' Quick said. 'They did a great job.' Matt O'Brien led the Mustangs with 23 points, including 11 in the fourth quarter. 'Brick Memorial is a great team,' Quick said. 'I am quite pleased.'MONMOUTH 64, RED BANK CATHOLIC 45: Joe Willman had eight of his game-high 16 points in the first quarter and Anthony Gibson added six of his 15 points in the fourth quarter for the top-ranked Falcons (8-0) against the Caseys (5-3).  Red Bank Catholic's Luke McCarthy had eight of his 14 points in the first half and finished with 11 rebounds.  PINELANDS 59, MATAWAN 42: Sophomore guard Jake Hartman scored a game-high 18 points and added seven rebounds, three assists and three steals to propel the Wildcats past the Huskies in a nondivisional game.  The Huskies went on a 10-1 run in the first six minutes of the game, but Hartman replied with eight points, leaving the game tied at 10 after the first quarter.  Pinelands' Tyler Sefcik was 6 of 9 from the field and finished with 17 points, including nine in the fourth quarter. He also grabbed 11 rebounds. Teammate Jeremy Hartman scored 16 points, 10 in the fourth quarter. Chris Maclane led the Huskies with 16 points  10 in the final quarter  in which he drained two 3-pointers.  ST. ROSE 49, KEYPORT 34: Chris Hueth and Jeff Kurtz scored 12 points apiece to lead St. Rose past Keyport.  St. Rose sped out to a 15-3 first-quarter lead behind seven points from Hueth.  Hueth also grabbed eight rebounds while teammate Joey Quinn scored seven of his 11 points in the fourth quarter.  Tony Lopez and Jim McGuire led the Red Raiders with 10 points each.  ST. ANTHONY 44, RUMSON-FAIR HAVEN 29: Jamee Jackson scored 11 of his team's 12 first-quarter points and finished with a game-high 19 for the Friars.  Rumson-Fair Haven's James LeCardi scored six of his nine points in the second quarter on two 3-pointers, and Matt Blumel added eight of his 13 points in the fourth quarter.  LENAPE 43, TOMS RIVER NORTH 38: Pete Dinich scored a team-high 17 points for the Indians (9-0) as they gained a nonconference victory over the Mariners (6-2).  Toms River North's Steve Nyisztor scored seven of his 17 points in the third quarter and had eight rebounds. Pat Szukics added eight of his 16 points in the first quarter and finished with three steals. 
