Sailing, watersports and powerboat racing stories from around the world At the final day of the Commonwealth Bank 2009 Australian Etchells Championships, hosted by the Royal SA Yacht Squadron, the wind and waves provided tough and challenging conditions.  Final race, after a general recall the second start was clean away. The fleet split with a poor start for Ian Johnson  Bananas in Pyjamas. At the top mark, the leaders came in from Port tack, with John Bertrand  Triad crossing ahead. Rounding the mark; Bertrand, Mark Bulka  Critical Balance, Rob Brown  Steampacket 7 and then the New Zealander Alistair Gair  Velsheda, rounded with very little between them.  With Bertand expected to retire having already won the championship yesterday and with second nearly in the bag for Gair; needing to finish seventh or lower with Bulka finishing first, there was still much interest from the spectator boats braving the tough conditions.  With the Magic kiwis Gair and crew chasing and known for their surfing skills the battle for second with Bulka was on. Bertrand pulled out at the bottom aiming to win the race for the dockside crane and headed in. The wind increased to over 20knts with the waves starting to show some structure with the tide going slack. The fleet split again for the second beat, tacked up the middle chasing the shifts. At the top mark approaching on Port tack  Brown, Bulka, Gair and Skip Lissiman  Bandwagon, all turned with very little to separate them.  Another sparkling furious surfing session ensued, to the bottom mark with now only 34 boats competing.  The wind increased further for the final beat, the fleet headed into Largs Bay, at the gun it was Bulka with over six boat lengths from Gair and then Brown. The last great race of the championship then commenced; the battle to the dockside crane. A protest involving Bulka is being heard though will not affect the second place of Gair, however is likely to impact on third and fourth place.  Comments from the racers  Shane Dussen  Wood Duck Overstood the mark, missed it, then 14th or 15th, thats life he went on to say Mystery Taxi is going to the worlds , 736 - Wood Duck a bit old  Mark Bardford - Roni Found the speed at the end, See you at the worlds.  When discussing Mark Bulkas need to finish first with Gair worse than seventh to draw second place, Gair said, Kept an eye on him, hes really good in the light, so wasnt too worried.  Ian Johnson - Bananas in Pyjamas Best sailing waters in the world, I mean that, bloody oath!  Rob Brown  Steampacket 7 Good first beat nose to tail, really good weather, we go well up to 18knots, continuing he said, The club and race management is excellent.  Sponsors have been quick to jump aboard, recognising the contribution sailing makes to the local community and keen to associate with a healthy outdoor sport. Sponsors include; The Commonwealth Bank, MUSTO, Club Marine Insurance, Coopers Brewery, Jacobs Creek Wines, Kaesler Wines and Aircommand Australia and the Royal SA Yacht Squadron.  Steve Hall  See Etchells images:  Last Updated ( Friday, 16 January 2009 )
