What's so surprising about the US government coming to the rescue of American International Group (AIG)? Contary to the report in Singapore's leading newspaper, the Straits Times, traders should not be surprised the US government bailed out AIG but allowed Lehman Brothers to go to the wall. Surely, there's a pattern here. Lehman was primarily a Wall Street investment bank while AIG is a giant insurance group. The US government took control of AIG just as it did of the mortgage finance companies, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. While Lehman served "the financial needs of governments, corporations, municipalities, institutional clients and high net worth individuals" according to its home page, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae work with banks, mortgage companies and other financial institutions to ensure there are enough funds to lend to home buyers. AIG serves both institutional and individual customers. Their business model affects common people; they are not just dealing with high net worth individuals and high finance. Even if the Federal Reserve had wanted to help Lehman Brothers like it helped JP Morgan buy Bear Stearns earlier this year, that might not have been possible with the US presidential election less than two months away and widespread anger against Wall Street and Washington. But it had to help AIG.Washington has a history of stepping in when ordinary people's lives are affected. It intervened in the savings and loans crisis in the 1980s and 1990s when the US government paid more than $120 billion, according to Wikipedia, bailing out savings and loans associations. Fannie Mae is a US government sponsored enterprise created in 1938, during the Great Depression, to provide liquidity to the mortgage market and thus help home buyers. Freddie Mac, also a government sponsored enterprise, was set up in 1970 to provide competition to Fannie Mae. The US government had to come to their rescue to protect common people. It had to save AIG for the same reason: it was not only the rich who flocked to AIG's offices in Singapore to cash out when it ran into trouble. And now the US government has agreed to lend AIG up to $85 billion to help it keep its commitments to creditors and customers from New York to Singapore. Talk about the cost of globalisation. Not only are American shoppers helping raise living standards from China to Bangladesh. Now American taxpayer money must be used to spare AIG policyholders sleepless nights in over 130 countries where it does business.   Actually, as AIG said, "AIGs life insurance, general insurance and retirement services businesses, remain adequately capitalised and fully capable of meeting their obligations to policyholders." The Wall Street Journal agrees: "AIG's millions of insurance policyholders appear to be considerably less at risk (than banks and other financial institutions). That's because of how the company is structured and regulated. Its insurance policies are issued by separate subsidiaries of AIG, highly regulated units that have assets available to pay claims. In the US, those assets can't be shifted out of the subsidiaries without regulatory approval, and insurance is also regulated strictly abroad." The Wall Street Journal explains: "Where the company is feeling financial pain is at the corporate level, even while its insurance operations are healthy... "AIG's cash squeeze is driven in large part by losses in a unit separate from its traditional insurance businesses. That financial-products unit sold credit-default swap contracts (to other financial institutions) designed to protect investors against default in an array of assets, including subprime mortgages. "But as the housing market has crumbled, the value of those contracts has dropped sharply, driving $18 billion in losses over the past three quarters and forcing AIG to put up billions of dollars in collateral. AIG raised $20 billion earlier this year. But the ongoing demands are straining the holding company's resources." The Wall Street Journal's is the best report I have read so far about the AIG crisis. About the bailout, it says: "It puts the government in control of a private insurer -- a historic development, particularly considering that AIG isn't directly regulated by the federal government." The report adds: "In bailing out AIG, the Federal Reserve appeared to be motivated in part by worries that Wall Street's financial crisis could begin to spill over into seemingly safe investments held by small investors, such as money-market funds that invest in AIG debt...Money-market funds are supposed to be among the safest investments available. No fund in the $3.6 trillion money-market industry has lost money since 1994, when Orange County, Calif., went bankrupt... "That the government would prop up AIG financially offers a stark indication of the breadth of the insurer's role in the global economy. If it were to have trouble meeting its obligations, the potential domino effect could reach around the world." The Associated Press reports: The government agreed to loan up to $85 billion to AIG over two years in exchange for the right to buy 79.9 percent of the company. The hope is that the money will give the company enough time to reorganize and sell assets to repay the loan. The interest rate the government is charging AIG for the loan is high  11.5 percent. Because the government can borrow money right now at around 3.4 percent, taxpayers stand to make a handsome profit if all goes well. The government is first in line to be paid back on the loan, which is backed by the assets of the entire company. Key to the U.S. being repaid for its loan is whether AIG can sell its assets, how quickly and for what price. For the company, that might mean putting some of its profitable, noncore assets, such as its aircraft leasing business, on the block. AIG's breakup value could top $150 billion, according to a preliminary estimate from FBR Capital Markets.      
