Here's the reply I get from Hans:I concentrate on analog IC design, so I prefer a simulator that is really good in that area.  The best one, as far as I am concerned, is Simetrix, with Cadence, Tanner and P-Spice quite far behind.  Simetrix is PC-based and far less expensive than Cadence. As for models, I make available bipolar models (see www.arraydesign.com , 700 series models).  For CMOS you need to be a customer of one of the foundries. Hans CamenzindAn ouch delivered to me today courtesy of Citibank - open the checking account statement - and a $9.50 service charge. Call 1-888 CITIBANK and Liza (supervisor Ian) answers. Who told you there would be no service charge? First name Rahim, branch was at corner of Coit and Belt Line. Well, in that case I would have to refer you back to the branch because, for your type of account, you have to maintain a $6000 balance. Damn! I have $6000 - $1000 cash, + credit card balances. Yes sir, but I see that you only have $2000 on your credit card ending 9454. Hell! I also have another credit card ending 2000 with a $4k balance. Well sir, I don't see that linked. I linked it!! When? Within a couple of days of opening the account. I was very particular about what I had to do to avoid charges. Well sir, I can link it for you. Hell! I linked it! What can I do to see that I have linked it? www.citibankonline.com. I go there, have to reset my password, miraculously, I'm able to find the original debit card. And guess what? I see that I have linked both cards. Yes sir, but you linked the cards to your debit card, not to your checking account. Damn!!! Hell!!! What do I have to do to link it to the checking account? These were the instructions given to me? You could give us a call sir. Hell!! How should I know that I should give you a call. Well, as I said sir, I can go ahead and link it for you now. Hell!! What should I do to link it online? There is no place you can go online sir to link it, you can give us a call. Hell!! How should I know that. Well Sir, as I said, I can link it for you and if you like I can remove the charges for you. Why didn't they charge me in November? The bank placed a one-month waiver on the charges. Sleazy Citibank. Texas AG will definitely hear about this one.Anyway, she says she'll remove the charges and place a waiver for next month. Where can I go online to verify that the credit cards are linked to my checking account? No place. What business address should I use for litigation purposes?Citibank Service CenterCitibank Client Services100 Citibank Dr,San Antonio,TX 78245Anyhow, after that, I get a call from the headhunter Alison Janota operating out of Ottawa. Says Cirrus Logic is looking. Told them I'd be willing to drive out and not need assistance with hotel or anything like that, should help. Let's see.BTW, didn't watch all of it, but there seems to be a good seminar by Craig of Craigslist on the MIT World web here.
