After the EU talked a little tough with him, Obama is abandoning the "Buy American" message linked to the stimulus bill.  Last night on FOX he said: "I think it would be a mistake, though, at a time when worldwide trade is declining, for us to start sending a message that somehow were just looking after ourselves and not concerned with world trade.Screw world trade!  We SHOULD be looking out for ourselves because it is our economy that is spiraling down the drain. But Democrats are afraid to make the hard choices. They want to believe that if you water it down and spread it around that, like fertilizer, something good will come of it.  Well, all it does is water it down and spread it around, with not enough focus on anything to cause improvement.In the last giveaway, banks were given money and they are using it as they wish. Not as it was meant to be used.  The last bail out gave $20 billion to Bank of America, who turned around and spent millions of it on a 5 day SuperBowl bash. They know no one will hold them accountable for it.  No one will ask for the money back.  It's gone. Wasted.This latest stimulus is a pork-laden mess that will not stimulate the economy. It will only burden us with more unpayable debt.China so owns us.At the end of the Clinton administration, we had a budget surplus. Only 8 years ago. Bush squandered that immediately, and got us bogged down in two wars of invasion that have bankrupted us.What is Obama doing? Backing down from the Europeans, for God's sake! The U.S. is collapsing, just like the Soviet Union did, and it is happening on his watch.While Obama serves $100/lb Japanese beef at the White House, and cranks Oval Office the thermostat up so high that, according to his own advisor, David Axelrod, you "could grow orchids in there", the voters who elected him - and those of us who didn't - are dealing with the real world situation of job loss, shrinking investment and retirement portfolios, a floundering housing market, and the spectre of another government give-away getting more pork tacked on it every moment.Where is the leadership?Change we can believe in. Change for the worse.
