NEW YORK, March 2 (Reuters) - Bank of America's Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis saw his total compensation cut about 60 percent in 2008, according to a filing with U.S. regulators on Monday.   Pay for bank executives has become a hot-button issue as the global recession wears on and the U.S. government has had to make additional capital injections in banks including Bank of America.  Lewis' total compensation in 2008 was $9.9 million, down from $24.8 million in 2007.  In addition to a salary of $1.5 million, which was unchanged from the previous year, Lewis received stock and option awards for his job performance from 2005 that vested in 2008, worth about $7 million according to the filing.  He received perks such as the use of a corporate jet, valued at just over $220,000 in 2008, up from about $127,000 in 2007. 'This will raise some shareholders' eyebrows,' said Eleanor Bloxham, chief executive officer of The Value Alliance, a corporate governance advisory firm. 'In this environment, most CEOs are looking to decrease their use of private aircraft,' she added. A spokesman for Bank of America declined immediate comment.  Separately, the filing said Bank of America stockholders at the April 29 annual meeting will also consider eight shareholder proposals, an unusually large number, on subjects including executive pay, the election of board directors, credit card lending practices, and whether to replace Lewis as chairman with an independent director.   The bank is urging shareholders to reject all eight proposals.  NO BONUSES  None of the bank's executives were granted bonuses for 2008 on Lewis' recommendation since the bank's performance did not meet expectations, the filing said.  Lewis had said he would not receive a bonus for 2008, after the bank received additional government funds, and he was called before Congress to testify on compensation with other top bank executives.  Bank of America received a top-up of $20 billion in government money in January, to help it complete its purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co Inc. Since the government bailout in January, executive pay at both Bank of America and Merrill has come under further scrutiny.  New York's Attorney General Andrew Cuomo has been investigating whether billions paid in executive bonuses at Merrill Lynch ahead of its takeover by the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank were sanctioned by Bank of America.  Cuomo said last week that Lewis and former Merrill Lynch Chief Executive John Thain have obstructed and interfered with his probe into the bonuses.  Bank of America's shares closed down 8.1 percent at $3.63 on Monday. The shares are down 74 percent since the start of the 2009, and they fell 65 percent in 2008. 
