A City trader was today under investigation amid fears he has lost tens of millions of pounds in bets on the currency markets.   Alexis Stenfors, 38, is being investigated by the Financial Services Authority and his own bank, Merrill Lynch, over a suspected loss of 84million. Mr Stenfors recorded a trading profit of $120million last year and was rewarded with a handsome bonus before Merrill was saved from collapse by Bank of America, according to The New York Times.  Merill Lynch trader Alexis Stenfors is being investigated by the FSA and his own bank over a suspected loss of 84million But three weeks ago, while he was on holiday, risk officers from Bank of America are said to have discovered irregularities in his trading account.   The trader, who lives in north London, insisted it was a 'misunderstanding' but his registration with the City watchdog has been revoked meaning he is no longer able to trade.   Mr Stenfors is still employed by Merrill Lynch and his lawyer Ian Ryan said he was co-operating with the investigation.   A Merrill spokesman said today: 'During a recent evaluation of certain trading positions, we discovered an irregularity. We informed regulators immediately and are working closely with authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter.   'Senior managers of the business are focused on the issue and believe the risks surrounding possible losses are under control.'   Investigators were so concerned about the irregularities they have swept into Merrill's offices near St Paul's Cathedral to check positions held by other traders.   When Bank of America took over Merrill for $33billion in December, chief executive Kenneth Lewis said the deal was 'the strategic opportunity of a lifetime'.   But it has since uncovered massive losses at Merrill which have soured the deal - in the same way that Lloyds Banking Group has been tarnished by its takeover of HBOS.   Merrill lost $13.8billion during the final three months of last year alone but the extent of the carnage was not known when it paid out 2.5billion in bonuses, including to many bankers in London.   No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts?
