MERRILL Lynch, the investment bank that is now owned by Bank of America, has admitted that it had 'discovered an irregularity' during a review of its trading operations in London.  The group said that it had informed regulators immediately of the discrepancy in certain trading positions and is understood to be investigating the activities of a currency trader based in London.   The trading irregularities are thought to involve Alexis Stenfors, 38, a currency trader at Merrill Lynch in London.   Mr Stenfors is understood to have recorded a $US120 million ($187 million) trading profit for the fourth quarter of 2008, but may instead have lost a large amount. Merrill Lynch declined to comment on whether Mr Stenfors was the trader at the centre of the irregularity.   In a short statement, Merrill Lynch said: During a recent evaluation of certain trading positions, we discovered an irregularity. We informed regulators immediately and are working closely with authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter. 'Senior managers of the business are focused on the issue and believe the risks surrounding possible losses are under control. The investigation into Merrill Lynchs London operation emerged two days after Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general, issued subpoenas for seven Merrill Lynch executives who scooped tens of millions of dollars in bonuses even as the firm racked up losses of $US27.6 billion.   The executives include Andrea Orcel, a London-based banker, Thomas Montag, the head of global sales and trading, and Peter Kraus, Merrill's former head of strategy.   Mr Orcel and Mr Montag now work at Bank of America, which acquired Merrill Lynch in January. Mr Cuomo is looking into whether Merrill Lynch broke securities laws on public disclosure of executive pay.   The three were all paid more than $US10 million in cash and stock last year, according to The Wall Street Journal.   The investment bank has been locked in a row with its owner, Bank of America, over $US3.6 billion in bonuses, including $US209 million to its top 10 earners, paid out in December just before the investment bank announced a surprise $US15.8 billion fourth-quarter loss. About 700 staff received more than $US1 million each.   BoA, which bought Merrill Lynch after it came to the brink of collapse last September, claims to have been powerless to stop the payments. The bank has blamed John Thain, the former Merrill Lynch chief executive, for rushing through the payments. 
