Should Ken Lewis keep his job as BofA's CEO and chairman?  Yes  No  Your vote has been counted, thank you for voting.  An investment group affiliated with a coalition of unions on Thursday called for Bank of America Corp.'s board to remove chairman and chief executive Ken Lewis, citing his disastrous missteps as leader of the nation's biggest bank.  In a letter to lead director Temple Sloan, the CtW Investment Group noted the 90 percent decline in the Charlotte bank's stock since Lewis agreed to buy Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in mid-September and the ongoing controversy over the payment of $3.6 billion in bonuses to Merrill employees before the deal closed Jan. 1.  Removing Mr. Lewis is now a necessary prerequisite to restoring (Bank of America's) credibility with shareholders, regulators and the public, William Patterson, CtW's executive director, wrote in the letter. If Lewis is not ousted, the group will call on shareholders to vote against the re-election of Lewis, Sloan and corporate governance committee chairman Thomas Ryan at the April 29 shareholders' meeting.  The letter adds to the shareholder ire aimed at Lewis, CEO since 2001. Nearly two dozen shareholder lawsuits have been filed against the bank over the Merrill deal.  In January, Sloan issued a statement supporting Lewis. A bank spokesman could not be immediately reached for comment.  Lewis has said that he considered backing out of the Merrill deal in December as Merrill's fourth-quarter losses mounted. But he proceeded under the urging of government officials. In a Financial Times interview this week, Lewis called it a tactical mistake to accept $20 billion in government aid to help stabilize the acquisition. He has said the bank doesn't need any more capital to weather losses.  The CtW Investment Group works with pension funds affiliated with Change to Win, a coalition of unions with 6 million members. The pension funds are substantial long-term Bank of America shareholders, the group said.  Last year, CtW expressed concern about risk management practices at Bank of America and other big banks. CtW said it met with Sloan last spring and he assured the group that the board was diligent in its management oversight. Rallying shareholders to oust directors is a difficult task in corporate America.  Separately, Bank of America director Meredith Spangler will not stand for re-election in April. She has reached the mandatory retirement age of 72, her husband, Dick, said today. The Charlotte couple is the largest individual shareholders in Bank of America.  The bank's shares are down more than 6 percent to $3.37 this morning.  Subscribe to The Charlotte Observer &amp; Earn Miles.  
