NEW YORK -- Following the lead of other major banks, Wells Fargo &amp; Co. said Friday it will slash its dividend by 85 percent in an effort to save $5 billion annually.  The San Francisco-based bank said it will cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents from 34 cents. The next dividend is expected to be declared in April.  Wells Fargo is the latest of the money-center banks to succumb to the decision to lower its dividend to shore up capital as a buffer against future losses.  Last month, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents from 38 cents. In January, Bank of America Corp. slashed its quarterly dividend to a penny from 32 cents. And troubled Citigroup Inc. has lowered its quarterly dividend to a penny from 16 cents.  Furthermore, PNC Financial Services Group Inc. and U.S. Bancorp cut their dividends earlier this week. Other smaller regional banks have made similar moves.  Although Wells Fargo has long been considered one of the stronger players in the banking sector, the company has recently faced increased scrutiny from analysts and investors who are worried about its capital levels. There is concern that losses related to the company's acquisition of troubled Wachovia Corp. will be bigger than anticipated. In recent weeks, its stock has taken a beating as investors fear it could be the next big bank in need of a government bailout.  Following initial injections of $25 billion into the nation's top four banks including Wells Fargo, the government has had to pump billions more into both Citigroup and Bank of America to stave off a major failure.  Wells Fargo's shares have fallen 72.5 percent so far this year. The stock has lost 25 percent this week alone.  Shares jumped $1.24, or 15.3 percent, to $9.36 in early morning trading.  'This was a very difficult decision but it's absolutely right for our company and our shareholders because it will further strengthen our ability to grow market share and to continue our long track record of profitable growth,' said President and Chief Executive John Stumpf in a statement.  The bank said its operating results during the first two months of this year have been strong and that it has been able to increase lending, deposits and mortgage volumes. Mortgage originations in January and February have totaled $59 billion, the bank said, while mortgage applications were $107 billion.  That's on top of the $50 billion in new mortgage loans originated in the fourth quarter.  Wells Fargo said the integration of Wachovia's operations is proceeding as planned and that the bank is on track to save $5 billion annually as a result of the deal. Additionally, the company said it expects total integration costs to be less than originally projected. Wells Fargo said it has also identified ways to reduce expenses by an extra $2 billion beginning in the second quarter.  The bank said the dividend cut and other expense actions will help the bank repay the government's capital investment as soon as practical. Additionally, the company said the retained earnings from its dividend cut amount to about a 40 basis-point improvement to its tangible common equity ratio.  As of Dec. 31, the bank's tangible common equity was $36 billion, or 2.86 percent of tangible assets. Tangible common equity is what a bank would have left after paying off all its creditors and depositors.  The bank lost $2.73 billion, or 84 cents per share, during the fourth quarter. The biggest cost came from a write-down of $37.2 billion on Wachovia's loan portfolio. Wells Fargo won a battle with Citigroup to buy the troubled Charlotte, N.C.-based bank in October.  Wells Fargo had previously estimated $60 billion of cumulative credit losses for the life of Wachovia's loan portfolio. That means Wells Fargo has roughly $22.8 billion of write-downs remaining, which it expects to record over a period of three years.  In another effort to save money, the bank has suspended bonuses for Stumpf and its other top executives.  
