 Wells Fargo &amp; Co. shares dropped nearly 16 percent on Thursday, after Moody's said it may downgrade the company's long-term ratings as looming losses threaten the San Francisco bank's credit ratios.   It was the fifth straight day of declines for the company, with shares off almost 44 percent since last Thursday.   Wells Fargo became one of the nation's largest banks after acquiring hobbled competitor Wachovia Corp. late last year, but its results have been weighed down by that company's enormous book of toxic loans. 'When they acquired Wachovia, they acquired ... a lot of very dicey mortgages,' said Bart Narter, senior vice president with the banking group of the Boston research firm Celent. 'They have continued to surprise Wells, and not in a good way. We're in a bad environment that seems to be getting worse.' In its report, Moody's Investors Service said Wells Fargo didn't raise enough equity after the transaction to offset the deteriorating quality of Wachovia's assets. Several of the company's capital ratios, key measures of a bank's health, are already relatively low and could fall further, the New York ratings firm said.  Wells may have trouble generating necessary capital to stem the problem as it records additional expenses related to the merger, and struggles with the still weakening housing and job markets, it said. Rating downgrades for its deposits and senior debt will likely be limited to one or two levels, but a 'multi-notch downgrade is likely for the bank financial strength rating,' said Sean Jones, a Moody's senior vice president, in a prepared statement.  Wells Fargo declined to comment specifically on the stock movement, but spokesman Chris Hammond said the bank continues to increase its market share as well as the average number of products per customer. 'We believe the Wachovia merger - combined with our time-tested business model - will make us even stronger,' he said. Wells Fargo closed at $8.12 on Thursday. Other major banks have also been battered during the past five trading days. Bank of America Corp. shares dropped more than 40 percent to $3.17 and Citigroup Inc. fell nearly 60 percent to $1.02.  Moody's expects to complete the review and issue its ratings by the end of the month.  E-mail James Temple at jtemple@sfchronicle.com.
