BY Greg B. Smith   DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER The head of Merrill Lynch's compensation committee rebuffed persistent lobbying by CEO John Thain and his deputies for bonuses topping $100 million, the Daily News has learned.  Merrill Lynch board member John Finnegan, who headed the committee, found the request 'astonishing' at a time when the faltering firm was losing billions and about to be taken over by Bank of America, according to sources.   That's not the story Merrill Lynch told in December, shortly before the merger. Back then, when reports surfaced that Thain was angling for a $10 million bonus, the company insisted that the CEO and his top men volunteered to skip the payouts. 'They believe this is the appropriate recommendation to the board for the Merrill Lynch shareholders and Merrill Lynch employees given current economic and market conditions,' the company said in a December statement.   Investigators for state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo have since found Thain and his top deputies pressed hard for hefty eight-figure bonuses, according to sources familiar with the ongoing probe.   The hard-sell lobbying targeted Finnegan, who is also CEO of Chubb Insurance. In a closed-door meeting in Finnegan's office on Oct. 7, Merrill general counsel Rosemary Berkery and other executives produced a sheet of paper with names and numbers seeking bonuses - cash only.   The paper sought $40 million for Thain, $30 million for Chief Operations Officer Greg Fleming, and $15-$20 million each for Chief Financial Officer Nelson Chai; President of Global Wealth Management Robert McCann, and Berkery.   Finnegan, sources said, was 'astonished' given the disastrous losses at Merrill that ultimately came to $27 billion. He flatly rejected the request.   Three weeks later at a board meeting, Thain told Finnegan he'd settle for $20 million, the source said. Again, Finnegan said he couldn't support that but would bring it up with the committee, the source said.   The day of the Dec. 8 compensation committee meeting The Wall Street Journal reported Thain planned to ask for a $10 million bonus.   That day Merrill said Thain, Fleming, Chai, McCann and Berkery 'requested' no bonuses for the good of the firm.   In the end, the compensation committee approved $3.6 billion in bonuses for hundreds of other Merrill employees.   Cuomo wants to know why Merrill executives got bonuses just before Bank of America bought out the firm with help from $45 billion in taxpayer bailout funds.   Last week Thain, who did not get a bonus, refused to name names of bonus recipients until a judge ordered him to and Cuomo had to subpoena Bank of America records after CEO Kenneth Lewis refused to discuss it.   Late Wednesday, Cuomo sent out subpoenas to seven Merrill executives who received $10 million bonuses, plus Berkery, who received nothing. 
