Muhtar Kent, who has been chiefs executive of Coca-Cola since July, was awarded compensation valued at $19.6 million last year, according to a regulatory filing made yesterday.   Kent's total compensation was roughly $3.5 million less than his predecessor's pay in a transition year. Kent, who was chief operating officer for the first six months of the year, earned $1.1 million in salary and a $4.5 million bonus. But the bulk of his compensation came as stock and options that were valued at $13.3 million on the day they were granted.   Texas newspaper cutting staff   The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, blaming unprecedented revenue declines amid a recession, will reduce its work force by about 12 percent and cut wages.   In a memo to employees, Publisher Gary Wortel said the jobs would be eliminated in almost all areas of operations but he did not say exactly how many would be cut. Besides layoffs, he said a voluntary buyout plan is being offered to many of the newspaper's 1,000 workers.   Employees earning more than $25,000 will have their wages cut from 2.5 percent to 10 percent, depending on their salary, Wortel said.   Its parent company, McClatchy Co., announced several weeks ago that it was freezing pension plans and 401(k) matches and at its newspapers and was trying to reduce expenses by more than $110 million companywide.   Board wants CEO Bank of America goneAn investment group affiliated with a coalition of unions yesterday called for Bank of America Corp.'s board to remove chairman and chief executive Ken Lewis, citing his 'disastrous missteps' as leader of the nation's biggest bank.   In a letter to lead director Temple Sloan, the CtW Investment Group noted the 90 percent decline in the Charlotte-based bank's stock since Lewis agreed to buy Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in mid-September and the ongoing controversy over the payment of $3.6 billion in bonuses to Merrill employees before the deal closed Jan. 1. 'Removing Mr. Lewis is now a necessary prerequisite to restoring (Bank of America's) credibility with shareholders, regulators and the public,' William Patterson, CtW's executive director, wrote in the letter.   If Lewis is not ousted, the group will call on shareholders to vote against the re-election of Lewis, Sloan and corporate governance committee chairman Thomas Ryan at the April 29 shareholders' meeting.   --Star-Ledger wire services
