 Wells Fargo &amp; Co. quietly has begun cutting jobs in Charlotte, and employees say they expect the pace to pick up this month as the San Francisco-based bank moves forward with last year's acquisition of Wachovia Corp.   Since agreeing to buy the Charlotte-based bank last fall, Wells Fargo has been gradually fleshing out the hierarchy to run the combined organization. As the bank fills in these slots, some former Wachovia leaders are finding out they don't have posts.  In Wachovia's general banking group, for example, Karen Curtin, who was in charge of evaluating the bank's branch network, was recently displaced. She was a high-profile hire from Washington Mutual Inc. in 2005. Wells Fargo also has made cuts in risk management areas. Decisions about positions are driven by business needs and are made at the business unit level, Wells Fargo spokeswoman Mary Eshet said. Affected employees can apply for other positions in the company, she noted.   Eshet said the timing of job decisions will vary throughout the company's business lines, but she didn't provide details. Eight of 11 top-level executives, including former CEO Bob Steel, largely left around the time the deal closed Dec. 31.  Wells has said it plans to trim about $5 billion in annual costs, about 10 percent of combined expenses. But the bank hasn't said how many jobs it will eliminate. In January, Wells CEO John Stumpf told the Observer that reductions will begin this year but that the bank was doing all it could to minimize job losses.   With the Wachovia merger, Wells has more than 281,000 workers. The bank has previously said it employs about 20,000 in Charlotte.   In Charlotte, former Wachovia employees grimly talk among themselves about whether they will have a job in the new company and when they'll learn the news. Some are expecting cuts to heat up this month now that more levels of leadership have been named.   Wachovia's former corporate and investment banking operation, now part of Wells' wholesale banking unit, is one area where cuts are expected. Wells has said it plans to downsize riskier areas of this business, although in January it named two former Wachovia executives, Rob Engel and Jonathan Weiss, to run the combined investment banking and capital markets group. Once their lieutenants are named, employees are expecting job cuts to begin.   Adding to the angst is last week's announcement that Duke Energy Corp. will take more space and become the namesake tenant in the former Wachovia tower under construction on South Tryon Street. The building was originally intended as a new base for the corporate investment banking unit, complete with state-of-the-art trading floors. Eshet said the bank is assessing its space needs as part of the merger.  Reductions at former Wachovia operations come as Charlotte rival Bank of America Corp. is eliminating 35,000 jobs companywide over three years as part of its Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. acquisition and a weak economy. The bank is not commenting on specific cuts, but more cuts hit Charlotte this week. . @Nyx.CommentBody@  Disclaimer  The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting.  Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer.   If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. 
