CHARLOTTE, N.C. New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo asked a judge on Friday to reject a request from Bank of America Corp. to keep information confidential about bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. employees before the investment bank was sold to BofA.  Bank of America on Thursday requested a temporary confidentiality order be expanded to cover anyone who testifies on individual bonuses granted by Merrill. The order originally applied just to the testimony given by former Merrill Chief Executive John Thain.  That request came a day after Cuomo subpoenaed seven Merrill executives to determine what they knew of the bonuses and their timing.  In Cuomo's request to a New York State Supreme Court judge, he said Bank of America has refused to provide details of individual bonuses and threatened lawsuits against individuals who might provide the information.  Cuomo said in the request Friday that Charlotte-based Bank of America threatened to sue a former employee if he provided details about individual bonuses.  During his first deposition, Thain also refused to provide information about individual bonuses, claiming he was worried about a potential lawsuit from Bank of America. He was forced to return for a second round of questioning, though it is unclear if he gave details about the bonuses then.  BofA's CEO Ken Lewis testified about the bonuses last week, but did not reveal information about individual bonuses. 'Bank of America has continually offered to provide the information the attorney general is seeking if he would agree to an appropriate confidentiality agreement,' Bank of America spokesman Scott Silvestri said. 'He has continually declined.' Silvestri added: 'Bank of America does not believe the attorney general needs the freedom to place private, personal information in the news media in order to conduct his investigation and determine if laws were possibly broken.' Cuomo claims the confidentiality assertion is unfounded and Bank of America has an obligation to be open and transparent about bonuses because it has received federal funds in recent months.  Cuomo's office has been investigating the timing of $3.6 billion in bonuses New York-based Merrill paid to employees in December. His office is trying to determine if Merrill and Bank of America failed to provide adequate disclosures to shareholders about them and the more than $15 billion in losses Merrill incurred during the fourth quarter.  Bank of America has repeatedly said Merrill Lynch was an independent company last year, and its board of directors had ultimate approval over how much to pay employees.  But the bonuses apparently were a point of contention for Bank of America. The initial reports of the bonuses came just days after Bank of America received an additional $20 billion from the government that the bank said it needed to help offset the losses it was absorbing from the Merrill acquisition. The additional support was provided to Bank of America as Lewis showed trepidation about completing the deal to acquire Merrill.  Thain resigned as head of global wealth management at the combined company in January just as news of the bonuses broke.  The government helped orchestrate the acquisition of Merrill by Bank of America over the same weekend in September that another investment bank, Lehman Brothers, went under, setting off the most intense period of the financial crisis.  ---  AP Business Writer Stephen Bernard reported from New York.
