INVESTMENT bank Merrill Lynch is investigating an irregularity within its trading operation in London.  The bank, now owned by Bank of America, has informed regulators and is working with authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter.  Merrill Lynch would not comment on reports naming a London currency trader as the focus of the investigation.  A spokeswoman said: During a recent evaluation of certain trading positions, we discovered an irregularity.  We informed regulators immediately and are working closely with authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter.  Senior managers of the business are focused on the issue and believe the risks surrounding possible losses are under control.  The announcement follows a report in the New York Times that attention was focused on the accounts of Alexis Stenfors, a foreign exchange trader.  His losses, when they came to light, were said to have so alarmed management at Bank of America that they examined the books of other traders who were on holiday. Mr Stenfors recorded a trading profit for the year of about 120 million dollars (85m), according to the New York Times, which quoted him as calling the issue a misunderstanding.  Bank of America is considered one of Americas healthier banks, but in January its acquisition Merrill Lynch announced a 15.31 billion dollar (10.85bn) loss for its fourth quarter.  Merrill had to be rescued by Bank of America for 35bn after it built up multi-billion-dollar bad debts linked to the sharp downturn in the US housing market that was at the centre of the continuing credit crunch.  The takeover deal was first announced last September.  Analysts said at the time that despite Merrills high profile woes, the deal was a good fit for Bank of America, as it added Merrills investment banking operations to its own predominantly retail bank business.  However, Bank of Americas shares have lost 75% of their value since the start of the year. Merrill made a loss of $15.31bn in the last three months of 2008.  
