NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Dissatisfaction with the leadership of Bank of America Corp. (BAC) Chairman   Kenneth Lewis  has led the investment vehicle for seven labor unions to demand his replacement.  CtW Investment Group manages 33 million Bank of America shares, about 0.5% of the Charlotte bank's stock, for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the Service Employees International Union and other unions. The group has been an active shareholder of several large banks, and last year demanded that Citigroup (C) sever its capital markets operations from its traditional banking business.  Those efforts came to nothing, but the CtW had some success elsewhere. It sought the resignation of   Mary E. Pugh  from the board of Washington Mutual Inc. last year. Pugh chaired the finance committee and resigned in April ahead of the Seattle thrift's annual shareholder meeting. WaMu collapsed in the fall and was taken over by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM). Washington Mutual was CtW's main focus last year, said spokesman   Per Olstad  . This year's main focus is Bank of America. On Thursday, CtW said in a letter to   Temple Sloan  , Bank of America's lead director, that Lewis, who is also chief executive, needs to be removed because 'of his disastrous missteps.' Lewis took on too much risk, particularly with last year's purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. 'Recent events have fatally undermined investor confidence in Bank of America, ' CtW Executive Director   William Patterson wrote Sloan. 'Absent prompt action to remove Mr. Lewis, we will have no choice but to call upon BAC shareholders to join us at BAC's upcoming annual meeting in voting against Mr. Lewis,   Thomas Ryan  , as chair of the Corporate Governance Committee responsible for CEO succession, and you as lead independent director.' Bank of America representatives weren't immediately available to comment.  Calling for the removal of the CEO of one of the worlds largest banking companies is likely be a tall task compared with demanding that a director resign. Bank of America's board said earlier this year it backs Lewis. In a statement in   January Sloan said, 'The board today during (its) regular meeting expressed support for   Ken Lewis  and the management team, noting their experience in managing through challenging environments and in assimilating mergers.' In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Sloan said the issue of Lewis' job status 'is not expected to be reopened.' But the United States banking industry has had some surprising and abrupt departures during this financial crisis.   Charles Prince  resigned in late 2007 as Citi's CEO under intense pressure from Wall Street, and the Wachovia Corp. board fired   Ken Thompson  in June, months before the company was forced by regulators to sell itself.  Bank of America's shares closed Thursday down 42 cents, or 11.7%, to $3.17. In recent late trading, the shares were up nearly 2% to $3.23.  -By   Matthias Rieker  , Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5936; matthias.rieker@ dowjones.com
