(This article was originally published Wednesday.)  Bank of America Corp. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) asked a state judge on Wednesday to order New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo to keep confidential details about who received bonuses at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. on the eve of its merger with the bank last year. In a court filing Wednesday, the Charlotte, N.C., bank asked New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard J. Fried to prevent Cuomo's office from publicly disseminating the names and job titles of Merrill Lynch and Bank of America employees who received bonuses in 2008 and the amounts of those bonuses. Cuomo's office has declined to agree to the bank's confidentiality request, according to the filing. 'Neither the individual names nor the job titles bear any reasonable or relevant relationship to the attorney general's investigation, nor is there a reasonable or relevant reason to disclose such information to the general public,' the bank said in its filing. 'Further, disclosing such highly sensitive and confidential information to the public will cause grave harm and severe competitive disadvantage to petitioners.' Cuomo's office is probing disclosures related to the timing and nature of more than $3.6 billion in bonus payments made shortly before Bank of America's merger with Merrill Lynch closed last year. Bank of America wants to prevent Cuomo's office from releasing individual compensation information obtained from testimony by former Merrill Lynch Chief Executive John A. Thain last month. It also wants a confidentiality order in place when it answers a separate subpoena by Cuomo's office seeking a list of those who received bonuses. In its petition, Bank of America said it's in discussions with the attorney general's office 'with respect to the timing and nature' of when it will produce the list and is 'hopeful that such discussions will avoid the need for further judicial intervention.' The bank claims, in part, that public disclosure of individual compensation information would lead to a poaching of its top talent. It also would lead to 'unhealthy internal tension' and privacy concerns among employees. 'Employees would become distracted and resentful of their colleagues,' Bank of America said in its filing. 'This would damage the collegial work environment that movants have worked so hard to create. The impaired work environment would ultimately lead to a decrease in productivity, harming movants' business.' Cuomo has said Merrill Lynch awarded bonuses to more than 39,000 employees shortly before the merger, with nearly 700 employees getting more than $1 million apiece. Thain, Merrill Lynch's former CEO, was forced out in January in the wake of his handling of the investment bank's fourth-quarter loss. In a regulatory filing last week, Merrill Lynch reported a fourth-quarter loss of $15.84 billion, $500 million higher than prior estimates. The investment bank set the bonus payouts in early December, when it was anticipating only about $7 billion of losses, according to Cuomo's office. At a Feb. 19 deposition, Thain declined to talk about the decision-making process behind the 2008 bonus awards, except in regards to five employees, according to Cuomo's office. Those five, including Thain, voluntarily gave their bonuses up. Thain claimed that his refusal to answer questions about the process or the amounts of the bonuses handed out was based on an instruction from Bank of America, according to Cuomo's office. Last week, Fried, the New York judge, ordered Thain to provide more details about how the bonus amounts were determined. Thain gave additional testimony on Feb. 24 and that testimony is temporarily being kept confidential under a court order. A spokesman for Thain has said the former investment bank chief will cooperate fully with the investigation. Previously, Thain has said the 'size of the pool, its composition (cash and stock mix), and the timing of the payments for both the cash and stock were all determined together with Bank of America' and approved by Merrill Lynch's compensation committee and its board. Merrill Lynch employees received a portion of their compensation in Bank of America stock on Jan. 2. Bank of America has received about $45 billion from the U.S. government, including $10 billion that Merrill Lynch was slated to receive if the merger hadn't closed. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
