The newspaper reports that the bank found the irregularities some 3 weeks ago when the trader, identified by the Times as Alexis Stenfors (although Bank of America has not yet confirmed his identity), was away on holiday. Stenfors, 38, is believed to have been suspended pending the completion of an ongoing investigation, and is said to be cooperating as the inquiry proceeds. The trader, who told The New York Times that the matter was a 'misunderstanding', is thought to have sustained losses of up to $120m, although Bank of America's senior management have confirmed that the risks are under control. Stenfors is believed to have bagged a decent bonus in 2008, after apparently reaping profits of some $120m (Hmmm).  Members of Bank of America's risk team are said to have moved swiftly to access the damage and limit any downside. The trading accounts of several other traders are thought to have been examined as a precaution. The bank is understood to have advised UK market regulator The Financial Services Authority as soon as the irregularities came to light.  This episode serves to underline the concerns many had when Bank of America decided to acquire Merrill Lynch last September. BofA is a much more conservative organisation, with far less appetite for risk and a greater emphasis on controls. Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Brad Hintz said: 'There is a massive cultural disconnect in the trading area. You have Bank of America, where it would seem foreign to ride a motorcycle without wearing a helmet'. Merrill Lynch traders are now expected to come under far greater scrutiny as a result of this affair, and BofA is thought likely to scale back risk even further over at the unit.   Bank of America has issued a statement which says that 'During a recent evaluation of certain trading positions, we discovered an irregularity. We informed regulators immediately, and are working closely with authorities to thoroughly investigate the matter'.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend.
