The New York Times had an article out on Friday examining the dealings of Merrill Lynch traders; in particular one Alexis Stenfors, a London-based currency trader at the bank, currently under investigation for losing $120m, according to the story. Heres the general thrust of the article:  CHARLOTTE, N.C.  One Merrill Lynch trader apparently gambled away more than $120 million in the currency markets. Others seemingly lost hundreds of millions on tricky credit derivatives.  But somehow all this red ink did not spill into plain view until after Merrill earmarked billions for bonuses and staggered into the arms of Bank of America&amp;Bank of Americas embattled chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, is trying to bridle Merrills traders, whose rush into risky investments nearly brought down the brokerage firm. But questions over the Merrill losses - in particular, who knew about them, and when - keep swirling. Merrill hemorrhaged $13.8 billion during the final three months of 2008 alone&amp;The epicenter of the trouble is Merrills markets operation, headed by Thomas K. Montag. Mr. Montag, a former Goldman Sachs trader who was brought in by John A. Thain, Merrills fallen chief executive, has become a divisive figure inside Bank of America. He is trying to retain his top producers amid the furor over Merrills bonuses. He flew to Charlotte this week to strategize with deputies from around the world. Were not sure where the $13.8bn figure comes from, according to Merrills fourth-quarter filing it lost a cool $15.3bn. A huge chunk of that loss came from Merrills Global Markets and Investment Banking unit. The banks credit derivatives holdings also had a negative impact in Q4, after the bank adjusted the value of its non-Super Senior ABS CDO portfolio from a $12.8bn mark-to-market value, to a -$50.3bn notional value. That was due to:  The gross notional amount of CDS purchased as protection to hedge predominantly Corporate CDO, CLO, RMBS and CMBS exposure was $50.3 billion and $58.0 billion at December 26, 2008, and September 26, 2008, respectively. This decline was due to terminations, foreign exchange revaluations and amortization of the underlying reference entities on the CDS.  So this bit of the NYT article should come as no surprise:  Questions also surround the way Merrill Lynch traders marked down trades on an index of credit-default swaps, instruments that have played a crucial role in the financial collapse. The index, which represented bets on 30 volatile corporate bonds, was marked down by several hundred million dollars at the end of the fourth quarter, according to two people familiar with Merrills trading strategy.  While one Merrill insider said the brokerage had effectively hedged its position, others said the trade contributed to Merrills fourth-quarter losses.  According to the NYT story, Stenfors is being investigated by Bank of Americas risk management executives.
