Wall Street, meet the wrath of Main Street on Long Island.  News that Merrill Lynch's 10 highest-paid executives took home a total of $209 million for 2008, even as the company was reporting record losses, angered some local residents Wednesday. 'It's actually obscene,' said Joseph Nolan, 55, a radiology-equipment salesman who lives in Rockville Centre. 'Frankly, those executives should be subject to some sort of reversal.' Massapequa resident Lance Moeller, 48, a machinist, echoed that sentiment. 'It's ridiculous that anyone is getting money like that, let alone the way things are right now,' he said. Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal reported the names of most of the executives and their stock and cash payments based on the paper's investigation.  Bank of America has refused to release its executives' names despite a subpoena from New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. He is investigating Merrill's payment of $3.6 billion in bonuses in December, just before Bank of America bought the battered firm in January with federal bailout money.  Merrill investment banker Andrea Orcel, for example, took home $33.8 million in cash and stock, the Journal said, the same year the company reported a staggering $27.6 billion loss.  Sources familiar with the probe said yesterday that detectives from Cuomo's office fanned out in the financial district yesterday to serve seven of the executives with subpoenas.  Some local experts said Wall Street was working from an outdated script. 'If the firm is doing well and you want to reward your employees (for their contributions), that's a valid argument,' Pearl Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, said yesterday. 'But when the firm is failing, and you need government money to bail you out, you really can't apply the argument that you're rewarding employees for how they are performing.' Alan Newman, editor of the investment newsletter CrossCurrents in Wantagh, also indicated that Wall Street may need a reality check. 'The pay scales are enormous,' he said. 'You have a lot of people who are out of work, and when they see stuff like this, they are fit to be tied.' But Jay Dahya, who is an associate professor of finance at Baruch College in Manhattan and who worked in Merrill's London office, said the situation is more complex than public outrage indicates.  He said, for example, that the bonuses were for deals made last year. 'The first half of last year was very good,' Dahya said. 'The bonuses are probably in line with what is being paid in the industry.' What's more, he said that not all of Merrill's units lost money and that the employees who made money for the firm deserve to be rewarded.  Staff writer Robert Kessler contributed to this story 
