Well, it appears that the assault on our bank accounts by the price of fuel has been beaten back - at least somewhat, at least for now. But that doesnt mean that we can stop being vigilant about saving a buck or two whenever we fill our cars tanks, or when we think about shopping for a car with better fuel economy than were currently experiencing.So we noted with great interest a story from a British magazine called "Fleet World." This story tells us of something called the "2008 ALD Automotive/Total Excellium MPG Marathon." ALD Automotive is a fleet-management service, Total is a petroleum company. Together, they sponsored an event in which 39 vehicles participated in a 400-mile flog around Britain that was designed to include all kinds of speeds, roads and conditions. Winner? A Toyota Yaris 1.4L D-4D. Thats the diesel version of this cheeky little car. The Yaris diesel is actually quite an interesting engine. Its a turbocharged, all-aluminum unit that produces 89 horsepower, is capable of sprinting from 0 to 60 mph in about 10.7 seconds and offers fuel economy estimated at about 62 mpg by British authorities. (In the U.S., the Yaris comes with a 1.5L gas engine and has an EPA miles-per-gallon rating of 29 city, 36 highway, 32 combined.) But wait. This particular Yaris did a bit better than the Yaris estimated mpg number. The chaps at "Fleet World" inform us that drivers Andrew Andersz and Gary Luton feather-footed their Yaris to an average of 84.66 mpg. And thats not all. A Toyota Aygo, a model sold in Europe and the U.K., captured the top mpg numbers for gas-fueled engines. Piloted by the team of James Sutherland and Richard Hill, an Aygo powered by a 1.0L triple delivered a stunning 82.39 mpg. You probably know the Yaris, but you might not know the Aygo. Its whats called a "city car" that rides on a wheelbase of 92.1 inches, has an overall length of 134.1 inches and weighs just 1,962 pounds. So its not something into which youd pack the family for a two-week camping trip in Yellowstone National Park. But with fuel-economy numbers like that, Id certainly consider commuting in one, if the Aygo was available here.In addition to being efficient people-movers, what the Aygo and Yaris are, are four-wheeled, gasoline-powered gauges against which we can measure whats possible as petroleum becomes more scarce and fuel prices flirt with their recent high-water marks. At the risk of stating the obvious, its probably well to note that the drivers achieving the enviable mpg numbers reflected here most likely were driving very carefully indeed, maintaining momentum, sticking to speed limits and modulating every throttle input. Ross Durkin, publisher of "Fleet World," put it this way: "Naturally if you drive carefully in a vehicle which is already highly economical you will reap double the benefit, as the performance of the Toyota Yaris in this year's event clearly demonstrated."We couldnt have said it better ourselves.- Jon F. Thompson, Editor, Open Road
