December 2008   By Jane Leung Larson  John L. Fugh was much in the news last month in both the U.S. and China, not because of his Committee activities but due to family ties. Decades of personal diplomacy by Fugh on behalf of his grandpa, U.S. Ambassador to China John Leighton Stuart (1876-1962), came to fruition when Fugh was present as the remains of Ambassador Stuart were finally interned in Hangzhou, China on November 17.   Stuart, born of missionary parents in Hangzhou (where he was buried 46 years after his death), became one of the most beloved and later most vilified Americans in China. Early in his career, which included President of Yanjing University and American Ambassador to China, Stuart took as his assistant Philip Fugh, Johns father. The two formed what Stuart described in his memoirs as an example of beautiful and loyal Chinese-American friendship. Grandpa Stuart was in John Fughs life from his birth until Stuarts death in 1962.After the U.S. closed its embassy in 1949 and Stuart was denounced by Mao, he moved to the U.S. and brought the Fugh family with him to Washington, D.C. He joined their household after he had a stroke, and the family cared for him until his death. His wish was to be buried in China. For more about the internment ceremony and how John Fugh achieved Stuarts final wish, go to the New York Times article, John Leighton Stuart, China Expert, Is Buried There at Last. (Read This Article) Also see the article this issue on the December 11 conversation between Fugh and former Ambassador to China Stapleton Roy concerning the significance of this event.Chinese newspapers carried extensive coverage of the ceremony and the story behind it. Li Jin, a reporter with Sanlian Shenghuo [Life Weekly], took an interest in this story in 2007 and also came to the internment. Links to her two articles are:2008: http://blog.sina.com.cn/s/blog_470bf2570100azf9.html?tj=12007: http://big5.ce.cn/culture/people/200705/11/t20070511_11319197.shtmlAfter the ceremony, Fugh met with Hangzhou Mayor Cai Qi. Fugh and his wife, June, were escorted on this trip by C-100 Public Relations Director An Ping. At the invitation of Vivine and Roger Wang, the Fughs also visited Nanjing where they met the Party Secretary of Jiangsu Province, Zhu Shanlu.In Beijing, there were meetings with Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Guangya and Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Peoples Congress Li Zhaoxing, as well as a visit to the U.S. Embassy. Greater China C-100 members and friends gathered at Maison Boulud in Legation Quarter (Handel Lees luxury development project in the old U.S. Embassy compound) for a dinner in honor of Chairman Fugh and his wife June, hosted by Lee, Ya-Qin Zhang, and Jeffrey Li. Other members attending were H.K. Chang, Wei Christianson, and Carter Tseng, along with staff members An Ping, C-100 Public Relations Director, and Su Cheng Harris-Simpson, C-100 Consultant. Many corporate leaders joined the party, including Tim Chen, CEO NBA China; Ed Chan, the CEO and President of Wal-Mart China; H.C. Kwok, Country Director for Continental Airlines; and Kate Guo, Vice President, Bank of America. Chairman John L. Fugh and his wife June, honored guests, at Handel Lees elegant Legation Quarter, Beijing. They are pictured on the granite staircase in what was the entrance hall of the U.S. Embassy before 1949.
