Oh I am a rich man And I drive a Cadillac I buy everything I want I sell bullets to the soldiers Oh I am a poor man I don&amp;#8217;t drive a Cadillac Can&amp;#8217;t buy anything I want They want me to be a soldier -&amp;#8221;Rich Man,&amp;#8221; Climax Blues Band Whenever I begin to dread the Democrats and what the new administration and the new Congress might have in store for us - gun control? Carbon taxes?  &amp;#8220;Hate&amp;#8221; speech legislation? - there is always a tidbit of news to remind me just how degenerate is the party that we just hurled out of power. I made the right call when I voted for Obama/Biden. A civilian employee of the US Air Force has filed suit in federal court against KBR and its parent company Halliburton. He worked on the largest US base in Occupied Iraq. He alleged that Halliburton served rotten, tainted and diseased food to our troops, served them untreated water from the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers that was contaminated with sewage. In addition, KBR shipped ice in mortuary trucks that still contained putrefied remains and body wastes; this ice was served to our men and women. Worse yet, KBR was contracted to dispose of medical waste  - such as amputated body parts of wounded fighting men and women - in incinerators designed for the purpose. They instead created an open burn pit - no better than a hole in the ground, into which dump trucks drove up and dumped biohazardous material. US servicemen were distressed to find wild dogs rummaged through the burn pits carrying human arms - most likely of US soldiers - in their mouths.  Defendants knowingly and intentionally supplied and served food that was well past its expiration date, in some cases over a year past its expiration date, the lawsuit states. Even when it was called to the attention of the KBR food service managers that the food was expired, KBR still served the food to U.S. forces. The food included chicken, beef, fish, eggs and dairy products, which caused cases of salmonella poisoning, according to the lawsuit. KBR prevented their employees from speaking with government auditors and hid employees from auditors by moving them from bases when an audit was scheduled, the lawsuit states. Any employees that spoke with auditors were sent to more dangerous locations in Iraq as punishment.  I live in Pasco, Washington. The Catholic church here in town is part of the Diocese of Spokane, Washington. This diocese was one of the dioceses in the US church that were forced into bankruptcy because of diocesan tolerance and abetment of Church employees committing sexual abuse against minors. The Church in Spokane was forced to pay out $48 million to abuse victims; money for the payout would have to come from not only insurance but from divestment of church properties. Now I don&amp;#8217;t favor driving the Spokane Diocese into non-existence, because I knew some good people who were part of that organization; happily I had no acquaintance with any of the bad apples. But someone had to pay for what happened to innocent and trusting children who had been put under the care of that diocese, and had their innocence and dignity stolen from them.  But who will pay for the crimes of Halliburton? Forget about the legal fiction that Halliburton created in 2007 that &amp;#8220;dissolved&amp;#8221; ties between the parent and child companies. Remember the female KBR employees who not only endured gang rape at the hands of their KBR tormentors, but were threatened by KBR and ordered to keep quiet about it or else? Remember all the poor Asian and African contract workers who were lured to Iraq by Halliburton with the promise of non-existent jobs, who were then kept in concentration-camp conditions (perhaps for use as a slave-labor force?) in Iraq? And their enablers and benefactors in the Bush/Cheney Justice Department who told these victims to go pound sand? Halliburton, with ExxonMobil and Blackwater, is one of the two most notorious war profiteers who have enjoyed multiple billions of dollars in unearned wealth not only from the captive taxpayers of America, but from the blood of American troops. These troops were enlisted into war against Iraq and Afghanistan under mendacious premises that were invented by the Vice President, and former Halliburton CEO, Dick Cheney. Over  4200 American men and women  have been killed, and close to 31,000 wounded, in a war that was designed by Dick Cheney solely to enrich Halliburton and ExxonMobil and Blackwater and few others. When I think of companies like ExxonMobil and Halliburton and Blackwater, it&amp;#8217;s impossible for me to think in anything except existential and metaphysical terms. Terms like &amp;#8220;criminality&amp;#8221; don&amp;#8217;t begin to comprise the nature of these organizations. I can only begin to describe such organizations by referring to metaphysical concepts. A lot of us grew up with ideas about evil that we read in comic books or movies: Hitler, Stalin, Tamerlane, Genghis Khan were all towering figures who left piles of dead bodies in their wake, and they were all larger-than-life figures. But each of these men at least had physical courage; Hitler after all served as a soldier in World War I, and Stalin at least risked his life as a bank robber before attaining power.  But the people who populate the upper tiers of firms like Halliburton and KBR are small, vile, pitiful, mean, weak, cowardly, bald, impotent little men who hide behind their physical and moral betters to do their dirty work. This to me is the essence of evil: there&amp;#8217;s nothing fascinating about the ilk of Dick Cheney and the corporation he led, and later enabled as Vice President. Evil stripped down to its quintessence has no redeeming qualities such as courage. What you have instead is a dumpy little mediocrity who not only will be reviled by history, but leaves behind no male descendants to carry on his name - in other words, an absolute failure of a human being. *** I said earlier that it was right and just for the Spokane Diocese of the Catholic Church to be forced to divest itself of many of its properties, to pay for the evil acts of personnel who acted under the auspices of the diocese. Someone, also, has to pay for the crimes of Halliburton. They may have escaped the justice that would be forthcoming in the incoming Democratic administration, by absconding with their headquarters to Dubai. But, seeing as how they injured and killed countless innocent Americans and Iraqis, then no matter how thoroughly they think they got away with murder, they&amp;#8217;ll at least have to live the remainder of their lives looking over their shoulders. 
