         Visit our News page    U.S. Representatives Myrick and Wolf Write AIG     Dear Charles,  On December 19, U.S. Representatives Sue Myrick and Frank Wolf sent a letter to Edward Liddy, Chairman of the Board and CEO of AIG, regarding AIG&amp;#8217;s press release announcing its offering of Shariah-compliant insurance products.  Their letter comes on the heels of a lawsuit filed against Treasury Secretary Paulson and the Federal Reserve, which we reported to you last week.  Here is one sentence from the letter:  &amp;#8220;Since Americans are now de facto stockholders in your company, we feel it our duty to inform them that your press release ignores the fact that AIG is marketing products that support a radical political institution, Shariah law.&amp;#8221;  Representatives Myrick (who is chairperson of the House Anti-Terrorism Caucus) and Wolf lay out in detail the problems with what AIG is doing due to its promotion of Shariah law, and close the letter by offering to set up a briefing for AIG by experts in this field.  Your calls and emails to AIG helped raise the awareness of this issue, and we contacted Rep. Myrick&amp;#8217;s office a few days after AIG issued its press release.  As we enter the New Year it will be revealing to see just how AIG and the Treasury Secretary respond.    But one thing&amp;#8217;s for sure.  It should be increasingly clear to Islamists, who are intent on subverting our country through such means as &amp;#8220;jihad with money,&amp;#8221; that we will not allow them to do so as they have done so successfully in countries like Great Britain.    To read the letter Representatives Myrick and Wolf sent, please click here.     -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------     ACT for America P.O. Box 6884 Virginia Beach, VA 23456 www.actforamerica.org   ACT for America is an issues advocacy organization dedicated to effectively organizing and mobilizing the most powerful grassroots citizen action network in America, a grassroots network committed to informed and coordinated civic action that will lead to public policies that promote America&amp;#8217;s national security and the defense of American democratic values against the assault of radical Islam. We are only as strong as our supporters, and your volunteer and financial support is essential to our success. Thank you for helping us make America safer and more secure.  Do not respond to this e-mail for any reason. To discontinue your membership automatically please, follow the link below. You are registered to receive email as Charles Pedley at the following e-mail address: cpedley.pressing4truth@blogger.com. You must use the correct e-mail address to discontinue your membership.    HOW CAN I TELL OTHERS ABOUT YOUR ORGANIZATION?Send a personalized version of this message to your friends.    HOW CAN I SUPPORT YOUR ORGANIZATION?Click here to give an online donation.    Discontinue your subscription.
