(CEP News) - Japanese inflation will fall slightly in September after recent declines in commodity prices, economists say, although some were quick to note inflation remains high. The CPI report is due out from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Friday morning (Thursday night EDT).A consensus forecast is calling on the core inflation rate to fall to 2.3% from 2.4%.Kyohei Morita, economist with Barclays Capital said housing-related categories such as rent or furniture will increase, while categories subject to commodity prices, such as utilities or transportation, will see declines. He emphasized Japan's Oil Information Center has been reporting falling gasoline prices, sure to have an effect on the overall figure.Matt Robinson, economist with Moody's economy.com agreed the fall in gasoline prices will ease upward pressure on inflation, along with falling food prices. Overall, he said, 'Falling food and energy prices, along with falling commodity prices as the global economy slows and demand for raw materials wanes, should start to filter through to core prices in coming months.'Tehmina Kahn, economist with Capital Economics disagreed, and said inflation figures in September will '(reflect) a lagged response to past increases in global commodity prices,' she said. She expects inflation to remain unchanged at 2.4%.Kahn also said more timely inflation data for the Tokyo region is already available, and revealed an increase to 1.7% from 1.5% in September.Morita countered that argument, and pointed out data is also available for Niigata, Shizuoka, Osaka, Kyoto, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Nagano and Kobe. 'Aggregated data for these regions are consistent with our forecast of a 2.3% y/y rise in the nationwide core CPI,' he said.By Megan Ainscow, mainscow@economicnews.caCEP Newswires - CEP News ? 2008. All Rights Reserved. www.economicnews.caThe Copying, Broadcast, Republication or Redistribution of CEP News Content is Expressly Prohibited Without the Prior Written Consent of CEP News. A copy of CEP News disclaimer can be found at http://www.economicnews.ca/cepnews/wire/disclaimer. 
