Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull says he wants to work with the Rudd government to avoid 'blunders' like the introduction of an unlimited guarantee on bank deposits.On Friday, Treasurer Wayne Swan announced adjustments to the scheme, first announced on October 12, that mean deposits of more than $1 million will attract a premium fee.However, investment funds are not covered by the scheme and have frozen billions of dollars in assets to avoid a further rush of redemptions in a flight to guaranteed deposits. 'So, it's been a blunder,' Mr Turnbull said. 'A lot of people are suffering real hardship because of that. Their assets have been frozen and that has been a direct consequence of (Prime Minister Kevin) Rudd and Mr Swan's mistake.' Mr Turnbull said the government rushed into the scheme without taking the time to talk directly to the Reserve Bank of Australia. 'I think most Australians are still scratching their heads, myself included, trying to work out how you could make such a momentous decision without talking directly to the Reserve Bank, which after all, is of all of the agencies involved in this area, is the one that is most expert, most aware of what is happening in markets.' He said it was important there be no more blunders. 'So, we stand ready to cooperate with Mr Rudd, to work with him,' he said. 'He has rejected our offer in the past but we stand ready to do that. 'We think that Australians would like to see both sides of politics working together.' But Mr Turnbull said his offer of cooperation did not mean the opposition would just accept and endorse everything the government said. 'Cooperation means sitting down, discussing these issues, exploring them and working through them together.' 'What Mr Rudd's idea of bipartisanship is, of course, is just agreeing with everything he says and not daring to ask any questions. 'Well that's not good enough for a democracy, not good enough for Australia.' Meanwhile, Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan has defended advice he gave cash-strapped investors of frozen managed investment funds last week, saying it was meant to 'comfort' them. The opposition has described as 'callous' the treasurer's suggestion people should contact Centrelink if they could not get access to their funds. 'They (the comments) were meant as a comfort to some in the community who may have suddenly lost altogether an income stream and are sitting there and saying 'how am I going to pay the rent next week',' Mr Swan told Fairfax Radio Network. 'In this frenzied environment, that was turned around by some as me saying that everyone that was in trouble in one of these market-linked investment vehicles should go to Centrelink. 'That is not what I said, it wasn't the spirit of what I said, it's not what the record records what I said.' Fund managers were meeting the federal government in Canberra to try to find a way to end the problems the industry has experienced since the introduction of the bank deposit guarantee scheme a fortnight ago.Mr Swan admitted the introduction of a deposit guarantee for authorised deposit-taking institutions, such as banks, building societies and credit unions, has had some impact elsewhere. 'Also what is happening in some of these market-linked vehicles at the moment is that you have got the fallout from what's happening on the share market, you have got the fallout from what's happening on the property market as well,' he said. 'A number of these impacts certainly pre-date, by a significant period of time, the introduction of the bank guarantee.' Mr Swan announced on Friday that deposits of more than $1 million would be subject to a premium under the guarantee scheme following advice from the nation's financial regulators. He was 'deeply, deeply' disappointed by the opposition's reaction to the scheme. 'They said they supported the guarantee, then spent the next week and half thrashing it. 'But I really don't want to go there. It's too important to the future of the country, too important to confidence, too important for those people who, unfortunately, who have been caught by these events and are experiencing discomfort.'
