 AUSTRALIAN interest rates are tipped to fall to the lowest level since the aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terror attacks as the central bank worries about a recession. One prediction is zero per cent.One Sydney academic is forecasting an unprecedented zero per cent interest rate by 2010 on the premise that debt-laden consumers will close their wallets and threaten to push the economy into a deep economic contraction. Macquarie Group interest rate strategist Rory Robertson said the Reserve Bank of Australia would cut the cash rate, now at 6 per cent, to 4.25 per cent over the next year. This would be equal to where the cash rate was in December 2001, in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S. Interest rates have not fallen below that level since the RBA began publishing a target interest rate in January 1990. Debt futures markets are expecting two bigger-than-usual interest rate cuts by Christmas. They expect the RBA to cut interest rates by 75 basis points next month and follow up with another three-quarters of a percentage point move in December. Another big rate cut next month, following from October's 1 percentage point move, would make it the most generous series of official interest rate relief since 1992, in the aftermath of the last recession. Such cuts would take the cash rate to 5.25 per cent in November and 4.5 per cent by Christmas, a level not seen since mid 2002. 'As the financial conditions continue to deteriorate, the Reserve Bank is becoming increasingly worried about the outlook for growth,' Mr Robertson said. 'So the Reserve Bank is cutting aggressively to limit the risk of recession in Australia.' University of Western Sydney associate professor of economics and finance Steve Keen is radically bullish on interest rates, predicting a 2 per cent cash rate by the end of 2009, dropping to zero per cent in 2010.Dr Keen said the RBA would become more concerned about high household debt levels than inflation, if deep rate cuts in 2009 failed to stimulate the economy. 'The debt bubble is bursting and when it bursts, people stop spending and borrowing,' he said. 'They (the RBA) can cut the pain but they can't boost the economy.' Earlier this month, the RBA cut interest rates by 100 basis points for the first time since May 1992.The RBA cut rates by one percentage point on five occasions during 1991 and 1992.Dr Keen said another series of deep rate cuts was needed now because household debt levels made up a much bigger portion of gross domestic product than in the early 1990s.He said central bank policymakers before the 1930s Great Depression focused on consumer price inflation and ignored asset prices, and this mistake was repeated more recently. 'Reserve banks everywhere got it wrong, not just ours,' he said. 'They focused on the wrong problem, which was inflation.' Macquarie's Mr Robertson said the RBA was more concerned about reversing the 12 rate rises from 2002 to March this year and would deliver bigger-than-usual rate cuts before Christmas to reduce home mortgage and business borrowing rates.Despair hits share markets ANOTHER woeful day on the share market has all but wiped out the gains made earlier in the week. The All Ordinaries index fell 6.66 per cent, losing about $86 billion in value.This followed the Dow Jones Industrial Average in the U.S. posting its worst one-day fall since the 1987 crash, dropping 7.87 per cent. The ongoing financial crisis has spurred Prime Minister Kevin Rudd to schedule an emergency meeting with business leaders in Sydney today.He told Parliament yesterday the impact of the financial market turbulence had flowed through to share markets and to the real economy. 'That, of course, has implications for jobs,' he said. 'In coming days and weeks, we will continue to work with business and industry groups on Australia's response to the global financial crisis. 'We will take whatever further action is necessary to ensure the long-term health of this economy and to help Australian households on the way through.' Mr Rudd will appear in a TV special on Channel 7 on Sunday night to speak to Australians about their financial problems and his $10.4 billion financial security package. The most recent market plunge was triggered by a dismal U.S. retail sales report, which stoked fears the credit crunch would push some of the world's biggest economies into recessions.Asian markets followed the U.S. trend down, with Japan's Nikkei index closing 9.5 per cent lower.In early trade last night, markets in Britain, Germany and Paris fell more than 5 per cent. The world's markets have shrugged off efforts by governments across the globe to combat the financial meltdown, including the $10.4 billion economic stimulus package announced by Mr Rudd on Tuesday.Resources stocks fared particularly badly yesterday, with shares in SA's largest company, Santos, falling 15.5 per cent to levels last seen in April last year.BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto shares fell 13.1 per cent and 15.9 per cent respectively.The Australian dollar was also hammered, losing almost 5 per cent against the greenback in early trade before recovering slightly.It was down 4.7 per cent at US66.8c in late trading yesterday. 
