(RTTNews) - The Commerce Department will release its first estimate of 3Q GDP on Thursday. The analysts at Barclays Capital expect GDP to contract by 0.5 percent q-o-q ar in the quarter, driven by a sharp contraction in consumption. We expect consumer spending to decline 3.2 percent, marking the biggest quarterly decline since 2Q 1980. Durables consumption is likely to be very weak as consumers pare back spending on big-ticket items, particularly motor vehicles. In addition, the monthly retail sales data suggest consumers cut back on discretionary spending, pointing to a decline in non-durable consumption. Consumers are seemingly responding to tight credit conditions, depressed household balance sheets, and rising unemployment.Outside consumption, we expect a drag from investment spending. Residential investment is likely to decline 17 percent q-o-q ar, slicing 0.6pp from growth and marking the 11th consecutive quarterly contraction. We also expect equipment and software investment to fall 7 percent and non-residential investment in structures to increase a sluggish 3 percent. This weakness should be offset by a positive contribution from inventories, government spending and trade. As such, after netting out inventories and trade, domestic final sales is expected to decline 2.6 percent.On the inflation front, we expect the GDP deflator to increase by 4.7 percent q-o-q ar. Attention will also be on the core PCE deflator, which strips out the volatile food and energy components. Based on the monthly data released so far and our expectation for a 0.15 percent increase in September, we look for an increase of 3.0 percent q-o-q ar or 2.5 percent y-o-y.We expect initial jobless claims to remain roughly unchanged at 475,000 in the week ending October 25 as the effect of recent hurricanes dissipates but firms continue to shed more workers. Absent the effects of hurricane-related distortions, the underlying trend of jobless claims over the past few weeks has hovered around 450-460,000, similar to the level of claims in previous recessions. We expect this heightened level of claims to persist as employers continue to lay off workers amid a weakened economy.For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights ReservedMore News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
