By Cassandra Sweet Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES SAN FRANCISCO -(Dow Jones)- Solar power companies, which might otherwise have been riding high this week after receiving a boost as part of the government's rescue package, instead are getting battered amid uncertainty about financing. The $700 billion financial rescue measure signed Friday by President Bush includes incentives for renewable power development. Among them is an eight-year extension of a solar power investment tax credit, previously set to expire in December, that gives residents, businesses and utilities a tax rebate for 30% of the cost of installing solar generation, such as rooftop solar panels. Many solar power projects that had been put on hold pending renewal of the incentive can now proceed, assuming developers can get financing at rates they can afford. The tax credits are expected to boost demand for solar power in the U.S., the world's third-largest market behind Germany and Spain. U.S. utilities, for the first time, can claim the 30% rebate, as can consumers, whose benefit was previously capped at $2,000. But as credit markets have seized up, solar panel makers and others in the industry face higher costs of capital that could cut into their earnings and plans for expansion, analysts said. 'The renewables industry depends on access to credit and for the moment the credit market remains closed,' Jesse Pichel, an analyst at Piper Jaffray in New York, said in a note to clients. Assuming credit markets reopen in coming weeks or months, interest rates are likely to rise, spreads are likely to grow and lenders are likely to extract more 'upfront fees' to 'flex up' pricing, Pichel said. 'The credit crunch is affecting every company and clearly, solar is financed,' Pichel said. Solar company stocks have been sliding this week, with several trading Wednesday at fresh 52-week lows, amid a broader stock sell-off driven by fears about the economy. Manufacturers of solar panels and related components have been focused on ramping up production in an effort to boost supply, bring down product costs and increase solar's share of the power generation market. Larger solar panel makers like San Jose, Calif.-based SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) and Tempe, Ariz.-based First Solar Inc. (FSLR) already have raised funds for expansion and aren't likely to have trouble raising more, albeit at higher costs, whereas smaller companies, particularly in China, that had planned to finance manufacturing expansions through initial public offerings could face obstacles, said Vishal Shah, an analyst with Barclays Capital in New York. U.S. initial public offerings of new Chinese companies that make polysilicon solar products 'could get delayed and could become more difficult to execute,' Shah said. 'That could negatively affect some of the polysilicon startups in China.' Shares of SunPower were recently down 13% at $45.01, after hitting a fresh 52-week low of $44.09 earlier in the session. First Solar shares were recently at $119.44, down 6.7%, after also hitting a 52-week low. Shares of Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR) were recently down 4.5% at $3.66. American depositary shares of Hong-Kong-based Suntech Power Holdings (STP) also hit their lowest level of the year Wednesday, before recovering somewhat to trade down 4.25% at $23.95. Until recently, solar panel prices were widely expected to fall in 2009 as manufacturing expanded and supply grew. But as credit has become harder to get, the manufacturing capacity expansion could slow down, leading to tight supplies and higher prices for solar panels. Higher prices would certainly benefit manufacturers. However, if financing costs continue to soar, solar power project developers could seek lower product prices to offset their higher costs, and panel prices could fall, even if supplies aren't robust. 'We're not seeing that at this point,' Shah said. He added that in the event solar panel prices did fall under pressure from financing costs, manufacturers might be able to make up for it through increased sales as a result of the generous new U.S. tax credits. - By Cassandra Sweet, Dow Jones Newswires; 415-439-6468; cassandra.sweet@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=77znUA3kjavnLZNSIfQT9w%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones NewswiresOctober 08, 2008 12:53 ET (16:53 GMT)
