MELBOURNE, Oct 8 (Reuters) - Stockland Group (News), Australia's second-largest real estate investment trust, has plenty of ammunition for acquisitions, after raising A$300 million ($214 million) in a share sale on Tuesday, Managing Director Matthew Quinn said. Quinn said Stockland would assess whether it needed to tap the market again to raise more capital if it made an acquisition, but declined to say whether there were any targets on the horizon. 'But we've got plenty of capacity in our balance sheet now,' he told Reuters in an interview by phone from Sydney. He would not say how much the group had available to spend. 'But we do have significant facilities in place.' Quinn declined to comment on whether Stockland would chase retirement village developer FKP Property Group after rival Lend Lease Corp said it was no longer interested in FKP. Stockland, Australia's top residential property developer, is in a strong position to pounce on property groups that have been weakened by the credit squeeze following debt-funded acquisition sprees. It took advantage of a brief boost in market sentiment for the property sector to beef up its balance sheet on Tuesday, launching the share placement shortly after the Reserve Bank of Australia stunned markets with its biggest rate cut in 16 years. The rate cut sparked a rally in the depressed share market and sent Stockland's shares up 8 percent ahead of its share sale, which the group said was oversubscribed. 'I think investors are of the view that yesterday's announcement is going to be very positive for the residential market,' Quinn said. He agreed the big rate cut should help the home property market, but said further cuts were needed to drive a recovery. Stockland shares fell 7.5 percent to A$5.26 on Wednesday following the share placement, which was priced at A$5.30. The broader A-REIT index was down 4.6 percent. Quinn said the group was well covered to cope with any financing deadlines coming up. 'We have various rollovers that come forward at any point in time. But we have facilities in place to cope with those well in advance, that's always the case.' 'Market conditions in the debt markets have been tough for some months now and we're looking forward to when that changes, but we don't see it anytime in the near future,' he said. He added he expected debt markets to improve within 12 months. After flagging A$110 million in charges on its struggling UK business last week and forecasting a flat operating profit in Britain, Quinn said on Wednesday the group was unlikely to chase acquisitions in the depressed UK market. 'We're very pleased with the business that we have there, but the market challenges it faces are quite tough. So we're not in any rush for any major acquisitions in the UK -- quite the contrary,' he said. ($1=A$1.40) (Editing by Anshuman Daga).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
