Banking crisis hits Iceland and Britain REYKJAVIK/LONDON (Reuters) - Iceland said Russia had offered it an emergency loan of four billion euros on Tuesday and Britain considered injecting capital into its banks to rescue victims of the global financial crisis. Australia responded to the growing crisis by cutting its interest rates by 100 basis points, increasing the pressure on Western governments and central banks to come up with a coordinated response. Australia rate cut stuns, markets thirst for more SYDNEY/SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Australia stunned markets with its steepest interest cut in 16 years on Tuesday and investors expected that other central banks would follow suit in a coordinated move to combat the global credit crisis. The 1 percentage point reduction in the Reserve Bank of Australia's benchmark rate was twice as big as expected, underscoring the increasingly strong medicine needed to jolt the world's financial markets back to health. UK banks in government funding talks LONDON (Reuters) - The British government held talks with major banks on Monday evening at which the possibility of an injection of public money was discussed, according to a source familiar with the talks. 'The big banks and the chancellor met yesterday night. Recapitalization is one of the options being considered,' the source said. Iceland takes over 2nd biggest bank, Russia hovers REYKJAVIK (Reuters) - Iceland took over its second largest bank, propped up its battered currency and said Russia would lend it 4 billion euros ($5.44 billion) to help it through a financial meltdown that threatens to overwhelm the economy. But, clouding a rapidly-escalating crisis, Russian deputy finance minister Dmitry Pankin told Reuters no decision had been taken to lend money. Fed should cut rates to 1 percent: Pimco's Gross LONDON (Reuters) - Influential investor Bill Gross called on Tuesday for the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates to 1 percent from the current 2 percent because of sharp falls in asset prices globally. 'We are experiencing asset deflation and the threat of headline inflation is long past,' he said in a note. UK bank funding talk hits stocks, sterling LONDON (Reuters) - World stocks fell again on Tuesday and sterling hit a 2-1/2 year low after talk of government funding hit UK banks, erasing gains in the benchmark index made after Australia's surprisingly large interest rate cut. Royal Bank of Scotland  fell more than 30 percent while Lloyds  also lost 18 percent after traders cited speculation of funding talks with the government. 
