St George Bank Ltd has increased its annual profit but says the outlook for the economy remains uncertain.In its last earnings report before being taken over by Westpac Banking Corp, St George said net profit for fiscal 2008 rose 0.9 per cent to $1.17 billion, from $1.16 billion the year before.But cash profit, which is its preferred performance measured, jumped 13.9 per cent to $1.32 billion from $1.16 billion in fiscal 2007.St George announced a final dividend of 94 cents, taking the total dividend for the year ended September 30 to $2.13, up from $1.68 in the previous year. 'It is extremely pleasing to be able to present these record results today as they reflect the quality of the St George franchise,' chief executive Paul Fegan said.The bank's total income grew 9.4 per cent to $3.58 billion in fiscal 2008, while the expense to income ratio declined to 38.7 per cent, from 42.5 per cent.The St George board today reiterated its recommendation of Westpac's planned $14 billion takeover of the country's fifth biggest bank. 'St George is expected to contribute significantly to the new entity, of which St George shareholders will own approximately 28 per cent,' Mr Fegan said. St George said it had focused on delivering excellent service, which was reflected in a retail bank satisfaction score of 75.5 per cent, compared with the average for the major banks of 69.9 per cent.The bank's annual cash profit included material non-recurring items such as a profit on the sale of Visa shares, payments from AIG for insurance arrangements and provisions established for a possible economic slowdown. 'Going forward, the outlook for the economy remains uncertain as the effects of the global credit crisis continue to spread and impact the Australian economy, consumer confidence, liquidity and access to funding,' Mr Fegan said. He noted that central banks and governments in Australia and around the world are implementing measures to help limit the impact of the crisis. 'St George fully supports the Australian government's response to the credit crisis and its fiscal stimulus package,' Mr Fegan said. The package includes a guarantee on deposits in Australian banks, building societies and credit unions. 'These measures are extremely helpful but there are still many issues to be resolved and the situation continues to be uncertain,' Mr Fegan said. 'We believe the government will closely monitor the situation and may need to take further actions.' St George's Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio was 6.6 per cent, above the required minimum of 6.25 per cent.During the year, deposits at the bank grew 20 per cent to $57.3 billion while residential loans increased by 9.1 per cent to $75.5 billion.The merger of St George into Westpac, currently the third biggest holder of deposits and home loans, will make Westpac the second biggest bank in Australia for both those categories.The combined Westpac-St George will still have a smaller market share than Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. 'The board believes that the proposed merger with Westpac will create an even stronger bank with a vision to create Australia's leading financial services company,' chairman John Curtis said.
