A SCARY thing has been happening in the three short weeks since Malcolm Turnbull became the leader of the Liberal Party. He has been morphing into the man he replaced, Brendan Nelson.It is, of course, early days. Maybe the Liberals just haven't employed a new person to script the leader's lines just yet. Maybe Malcolm is biding his time before revealing his new leadership direction. But this is the Turnbull who pitched for the top job on the basis that he could score political points against the Government without sacrificing the Coalition's hard-won reputation as credible economic managers. This is the Turnbull who quite rightly said (in a memo, the contents of which were subsequently leaked) that the Coalition's promise to cut petrol excise by 5c a litre, come what may, was bad policy. This is the Turnbull who, along with other members of the shadow cabinet, rightly hauled Nelson into line when he publicly floated the idea that the Coalition should return to its Howard-era head-in-the-sand approach toclimate change and an emissions tradingscheme. That record is what makes a list of Turnbull's pronouncements since he became Opposition Leader such odd reading. On the very first day he said he would stick by the Coalition's promised petrol excise cut. In itself, that pledge was understandable. It's probably not advisable to start ditching individual promises made by your party in your first leadership press conference. But Turnbull followed up in subsequent days with Nelsonesque rhetoric on the subject on which the two men had so often privately disagreed: the Coalition's policy on emissions trading. Turnbull's line is that the Government needs to delay the introduction of its scheme until it knows the result of global climate change talks late next year, until it knows the policy of the incoming US president and (this condition is a new one) until it knows the economic impact on Australia of the unfolding global financial crisis. Now, given its economic implications, it is absolutely wise to approach the introduction of the emissions trading regime with caution. But what Turnbull knows better than most - as a former environment minister who also promised an emissions trading scheme - is that the Rudd Government is not going to lock in its final emission caps until the first half of 2010, after the views of the new president and the outcome of Copenhagen are known. And what he also knows is that if every government delayed making any decisions about the range or the kinds of emissions cuts they might be able to make until after Copenhagen then the result of that meeting is a foregone conclusion: it will fail. According to climate-change adviser Ross Garnaut, that would be the absolute worst outcome for Australia, environmentally and economically. Turnbull's front bench also has followed up with apparently contradictory lines on theGovernment's plans to set up a $20billion infrastructure fund and bring forward some of the spending to pump-prime the slowing economy. On the one hand, the Coalition is saying it cannot promise it will pass the legislation setting up the fund and wants time to scrutinise its detail because it fears it won't be administered properly and might become a slush fund to bail out some (extremely unpopular) Labor states. On the other hand, the Coalition ridiculed the announcement from the Council of Australian Governments on Thursday to bring forward by three months the priority list of projects to be funded for being too slow, and another example of the Government being 'all talk and no action'. But the biggest surprise has been Turnbull's populist point-scoring on interest rates in the middle of the biggest financial crisis in recent history. Credit markets across the world are frozen and banks are collapsing every other day, but in Australia, at Turnbull's instigation, we're in some kind of parallel universe having a heated political debate about whether our sinfully rich banks will pass on in full an official interest rate cut that hasn't happenedyet. It all started when Wayne Swan and Kevin Rudd declined to repeat with equal ferocity their previous jawboning about how the banks should pass on interest rate cuts in their entirety. In another inelegant Ruddism, the Prime Minister urged 'maximum pass-through' of any interest rate cut, which obviously allowed for the possibility that the banks might not be able to pass the full cut on to borrowers. No doubt Rudd and Swan could see that things were a little different from six weeks ago when they really pushed to the limit the pressure politicians can apply to banks to pass on rate cuts. The Australian banks are fundamentally sound, but they are also reliant more than most banks across the world on wholesale funding to finance their loans, and the cost of that funding has rocketed during the past two weeks, so much so that in the absence of an official rate cut, the talk is that the banks may have to put up their mortgage rates. This is the one time in recent history when we should thank our lucky stars that our banks have been so profitable. And, of course, at the end of the day the politicians can influence neither the decision of the independent Reserve Bank of Australia nor the subsequent decision of bank lenders, and in the present circumstances jawboning is unlikely to be effective anyway. But Turnbull could see a political opportunity, accusing the Government of 'running up the white flag' on interest rates. As a journalist, I am not always averse to a bit of cheap political point-scoring. Well, cheapish anyway. Steve Fielding nuding up with pensioners to get his face on the television news was beyond the pale, but for the most part the rhetorical simplifications of political debate make good copy. But right now something pretty serious is going on. Something more significant than the 24-hour news cycle or a politician's desire for a percentage point advantage in the next opinion poll. So Malcolm, when this is all over, go back to jawboning the banks to your heart's content. But right now is not the best time. It may be a better time to explain to us your ideas about credible economic management.
