 - AUSTRALIAN WEALTH MANAGEMENT LIMITEDMerrill Lynch rates  as Neutral, High Risk - While the company's lower direct exposure to equity-related investment should provide greater insulation to bear markets, recent equity market declines haven't spared the company. With little room to cut costs, the broker expects the company will continue to be a victim of poor sector sentiment and cuts EPS forecasts by 14% for FY09 and by 15% in FY10. Target falls to $1.35 (from $1.65) and Neutral retained. More  - NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LIMITEDCredit Suisse rates  as Underperform - The broker is forecasting cash earnings broadly in line with guidance and market consensus and as a result it retains its Underweight rating, seeing the bank as the least preferred of the majors at present. More  - SINO GOLD LIMITED Credit Suisse rates  as Outperform - The broker expects quarterly production of around 41,000 ounces, with the key to be whether throughput has improved following recent crushing trials. Leading into the quarterly result the broker retains its Outperform rating and $6.50 price target. More  - RIO TINTO LIMITEDMerrill Lynch rates  as Restricted - Bulks production hit another record in 3Q08, but copper production was weaker than anticipated due to operational issues at Escondida.  is rescheduling about $10bn of divestments that were due to be made in 2008 given the state of credit markets, while CAPEX is also be reviewed. The company (and the broker) expect Chinese industrial production and commodity demand will accelerate in 2009 as government policy shifts towards promoting growth. More  - CSL LIMITED Merrill Lynch rates  as Buy, Medium Risk - BAX, one of the largest plasma product suppliers in the US, reported its Q# results and commentary, which lends a good insight into plasma market conditions and performance. The company was bullish on its outlook for IVIG and plasma demand, which echoes , who  who after only one quarter, are now aiming for the top end of their FY09 guidance range. More  - ABB GRAIN LIMITED Citi rates  as Upgrade to Buy from Hold, High Risk - Reflecting its expectation of strong earnings growth in coming years the broker has upgraded the stock to a Buy rating, at the same time lifting its price target to $9.12 from $8.90. More  - WESFARMERS LIMITED JP Morgan rates  as Underweight - The broker has revised lower its coal price forecasts and this generates modest cuts to its earnings estimates for the company. With the company continuing to face a number of challenges the broker retains its Underweight rating, though with no change to its $25.00 price target. More  - RAMSAY HEALTH CARE LIMITED JP Morgan rates  as Underweight - Target $9.93 (was $9.86). The government now appears to have the numbers to pass the proposed changes to Medicare thresholds but the broker notes the impact is already in its numbers for the company. While FY09 should be a good year for earnings the following years are not expected to be as good and so the broker retains its Underweight rating. More
