Such is the velocity of the crisis that large near-death experiences are a daily thing and some of the bank-for-bank rescue deals may yet fall out of bed.Shareholders of Bank of America for instance are still to vote on the $US50 billion scrip acquisition of Merrill Lynch and may yet balk at the premium on offer - especially as big, cheap, distressed banks are a dime-a-dozen.Citigroup has agreed to stump up just $US2 billion in scrip for the US's eighth largest bank Wachovia and its $US53 billion in debts. JP Morgan is forking out $US1.9 billion for WaMu's deposits.European woesAcross the Atlantic, the HBOS experience is telling. UK bank Lloyds TSB had agreed to by the foundering HBOS but Lloyds shares rose 3% last night and HBOS was hammered 13% on speculation Lloyds could press for a renegotiation.Why wouldn't it? Lloyds is proposing to pay 9.8 billion pounds ($22 billion) but HBOS is now fetching just 6.4 billion pounds. The embattled HBOS is the UK's largest mortgage and deposit bank. This is a vital deal and one which has drawn the intervention of the Prime Minister Gordon Brown.There is now however a stark 35% discount in the HBOS share price to the Lloyds' bid. Given HBOS is so reliant on funding its mortgages from wholesale markets - and wholesale markets are in a state of panic which has rendered new funding simply uneconomic - Lloyds is overpaying.Moreover, housing markets are in disarray and the prospect of recovery in both housing and bank profits has now stretched out to 2010.Australian falloutThe implications of all this ring loud for Westpac and its $17 billion takeover offer for St George. Like HBOS, St George is highly dependent on wholesale markets for its funding and in the absence of the Westpac bid would now be in strife.Although the deal is still likely to proceed, much cost and effort having been sunk already, it is now clear that Westpac is paying top-of-the-cycle prices for an asset which it could have picked up a lot more cheaply. Great for St George shareholders, not much good for Westpac.That CBA kept its powder dry, and sensibly shied away from a shot at investment bank ABN Amro, puts it once again in the box seat for dominating the banking sector in the next cycle. While Westpac's Gail Kelly will now be bedding down the overpriced acquisition of her old alma mater, CBA's Ralph Norris and his gang can relax and wait for a bargain.No doubt the investment bankers will be endeavouring to tee up a deal for CBA to partner with an insurer the likes of QBE to split up the struggling Suncorp.
