 SYDNEY, Oct 14 (Reuters) - A key measure of Australian business conditions held broadly steady in September in the face of global financial market turmoil, helped mainly by the booming mining sector, a survey showed on Tuesday. The 's (NAB) index of overall business conditions rose 2 points in September to a reading of -1. The survey's measure of business confidence, however, slipped 1 point, to leave it at a low -8. The survey was taken in late September and early October at a time of acute uncertainty surrounding the passage of a $700 billion financial bailout package by the U.S. Congress. The bailout plan, aimed at rescuing the battered U.S. financial sector, was followed by coordinated rate cuts by major central banks, including the Reserve Bank of Australia as frozen credit markets threatened economic activity. 'In those circumstances it is perhaps remarkable that business confidence, if not conditions, did not seriously deteriorate in this survey,' said Alan Oster group chief economist at NAB. The survey's measure of sales rose by 4 points in September, while the index of employment declined further by a 2 points, reflecting modest job shedding as the economy showed signs of slowing on the back of the credit crunch. On Monday, a private survey showed Australian job advertisements fell in overall terms in September, building the case for more rate cuts by the central bank in coming months. The RBA stunned markets last week by cutting its key cash rate by 100 basis points to 6.0 percent and markets are pricing in chances of more cuts in the coming months. NAB said that while the index for retail trading was broadly flat, the series had recovered since June, helped by a combination of tax cuts and expectations of lower interest rates. The Australian government is likely to unveil a fiscal stimulus package later in the day as it steps up its efforts to shore up the economy amid the financial crisis. The package will come just days after Canberra offered guarantees on the country's A$600-A$700 billion in deposits. All the improvement in conditions in September came in mining, where relatively strong demand from China and India continued to support activity. But the outlook for the mining sector deteriorated following sharp falls in commodity prices in the past two months. In a troubling sign for the future, the index of forward orders fell another 1 point to -9 with capacity utilisation also heading lower. (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill) . ng COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
