WELLINGTON, Oct 21 (Reuters) - New Zealand's central bank is expected to slash interest rates by a record amount this week as it seeks to give a shot in the arm to an economy in recession and buffeted by the global credit crisis, a Reuters poll shows. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand surprised in September with a bigger than expected 50 basis points rate cut, as it decided to bring forward its planned easing cycle to give some relief to businesses and consumers. Financial markets have priced in a 100 basis point cut to 6.5 percent at Thursday's rate review as the central bank continues with its so-called 'front loading' of rate cuts, presuming that current high inflation pressures will ease rapidly in the slowing local and global economies. 'It is the economic outlook that will see the cash rate come down quite aggressively as well as the fear factor with global markets imploding,' said Westpac senior economist Doug Steel. Twelve of 16 economists in the Reuters poll expect the central bank to cut rates by one percentage point to 6.5 percent on Oct. 23, while four predict a 75-basis-point cut. Data showed on Tuesday the annual inflation rate hit an 18-year high of 5.1 percent in the September quarter, above the RBNZ's 1-3 percent target band, driven by higher food and fuel prices. But economists expect that will be seen as 'yesterday's news'. 'The RBNZ need not worry about today's high inflation: the global economic environment and commodity prices are set to be substantially weaker than looked the case a couple of months ago,' said ASB Bank chief economist Nick Tuffley. The RBNZ, which is required to keep inflation within 1-3 percent over the medium term, forecast last month that annual inflation will be back within its target band in early 2010. A fall in the New Zealand dollar, which could add to inflationary pressures through higher import prices, such as for oil, is also not seen as a worry given that commodity prices have been falling. The New Zealand dollar's trade-weighted index, the central bank's preferred measure of the exchange rate, has fallen about 1.4 percent since the Sept. 11 monetary statement. However, the tone of the RBNZ statement will be studied for comments on the global and local economic outlook, which is expected to shape the easing path. New Zealand's economy shrank in the first half of the year, falling into its first recession in more than a decade. In September, RBNZ governor Alan Bollard said the recession would be shallow, but that was before the latest bout of weakness arising from the credit crisis with forecasts of global recession. The prospect of weakness in the local economy being exacerbated by deteriorating global conditions is seen as only adding more weight to big rate cuts. 'The RBNZ has plenty of bullets it can fire to prevent the current recession from deepening further and it may as well use them,' said First NZ Securities chief economist Jason Wong. (Editing by Kazunori Takada)copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
