business correspondent LOSSES at investment company Alliance Trust have reached almost 100 million as the value of its assets are hit hard by the global downturn. Katherine Garrett-Cox, chief executive of the FTSE-100 group, told The Scotsman she was 'vexed' that the Dundee company's shares were also being traded at a discount to the value of its assets, which are currently about 2.6 billion. Yesterday, the investment trust revealed a 95m loss in the six months to 31 July compared to a 117m pre-tax profit in the same period last year. The deficit was attributed to a 138.5m writedown in the value of the firm's assets, most of which are listed equities.However, revenues from assets were up on the same period in 2007. Excluding writedowns, the trust made a profit of 41.7m compared to 31.4m last time.David Deards, Alliance Trust finance director, hailed the boost in income a 'super uplift'. 'Clearly, yes, we have seen change in the price of our assets, which is reduced by 138m,' he admitted. 'But the way I like to look at it, it is the price of the investments not the value that has changed.'Garrett-Cox " nicknamed 'Katherine the Great' for her reputation in the City as a leading fund manager " labelled the interim results 'a credible set of numbers'.Net asset value fell 4.8 per cent compared to an 8.4 per cent decline in the FTSE-All Share index and a 6.3 per cent decline in the FTSE-All World index during the same period.'We feel good producing a credible set of numbers particularly in a tricky market environment,' said Garrett-Cox.During the six months, the group has reduced its exposure to listed companies from 93 per cent to 77 per cent, particularly in financial stocks such as Lloyds TSB in which it no longer has a stake. The company now has 10.7 per cent of its assets in cash and Treasury bonds which deliver a return around the bank base rate of 5 per cent.Garrett-Cox admitted she was 'vexed' by the difference between the net asset value and the company's market capitalisation, which widened from 16 per cent to 19.6 per cent. She defended the investment performance, pointing out its shares in UK large and mid-cap companies, North America, Europe and Japan all outperformed benchmark indices.She has reduced the number of investments in the core equity portfolio to less than 200, down from a historic high of over 450.'It is something we are vexed about as it implies things are not going according to plan,' admitted Garrett-Cox of the discount. 'One of the reasons for the discount is that people are perhaps a little confused by our corporate message. And they have also been confused whether performance is coming through or not. The corporate message is we are focusing on the investment company.'The half-year results were the first presided over by Garrett-Cox, who has been head of the venerable Scottish institution for four weeks since her predecessor Alan Harden's announced his surprise resignation in July. 
