Australian home borrowers may be disappointed next week if the major banks use global money market turmoil as an excuse not to pass on all of an expected cut in official interest rates. Analysts say elevated interbank lending rates in Australia and overseas will curtail the size of any follow-on reduction in standard variable mortgage rates. Australian Bankers' Association (ABA) acting chief executive Ian Gilbert said the commercial banks had yet to respond to recent further rises in wholesale funding costs. The domestic 90-day bank bill rate, often used as a benchmark lending rate between banks, has been significantly higher than Australia's seven per cent cash rate in recent weeks. Harry Senlitonga, a senior analyst with financial products researcher Cannex, said the fluctuations in key interbank lending rates will make the big banks reluctant to match any rate cut from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) next week. 'The 90-day bank bill has been very volatile,' he said on Friday. 'They (the banks) use the 90-day bank bill as the benchmark for the pricing of variable rate mortgages.' The gap between the two rates widened from 32 percentage points on September 2, when the central bank last cut official rates, to a monthly peak of 95 percentage points on September 25, reflecting increased funding costs. By October 3, the gap had receded to 77 percentage points, but it was still 44 points higher. Suncorp strategist treasury analyst Peter Pontikis said higher global borrowing costs may prompt the RBA to cut rates by 50 basis points next week. 'The Reserve Bank of Australia is seeking to alleviate the bank funding pressures by cutting rates,' he said from Brisbane. All 19 economists surveyed this week by AAP expect the RBA to cut interest rates when the board met on Tuesday, October 7. A clear majority, or 11 of those experts, expect the central bank to slash official rates by 50 basis points - which would be the biggest rate cut since early 2001. Last month, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, National Australia Bank, ANZ Banking Group, Westpac Banking Corp and St George Bank all reduced their standard variable mortgage rates by 25 basis points, in line with the RBA's quarter of a percentage point rate cut, which was the first official easing in seven years. But just out from the RBA's board meeting next Tuesday to discuss monetary policy, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Treasurer Wayne have conceded the banks may not be able to match an RBA rate cut. The ABA this week criticised Federal Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull for saying the banks should pass on in full any RBA rate cut. 'Regardless of the cost of funds in wholesale markets, (it) is extremely poor policy,' the ABA said in a statement. The ABA said the banks collected half their funding from deposits, with the rest sourced from wholesale capital markets, including 25 per cent from overseas. 'The cost of these wholesale funds has risen well over increases in the cash rate and, in the last few weeks, have spiked to new record levels,' Mr Gilbert said in a statement on Friday. 'Banks have not yet responded to these recent spikes.' 
