OPTUS is poised to slash hundreds of jobs, joining the list of big companies trimming their workforces.Many of the job cuts likely to be announced this week involve the company's main office in Sydney. About 400 staff in the network division are thought to be affected.The Singapore-controlled telecommunications provider, with 6000 employees in Australia, is understood to have sacked several senior executives to counter the domestic downturn.Optus spokeswoman Melissa Favero yesterday would not confirm or deny the cuts. 'I don't have a statement on that,' she said, declining to elaborate any further. In September, Telstra revealed plans to cut 800 jobs primarily in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane as it introduced new systems that reduced the need for staff dealing with customers.Several other large Australian companies, including Qantas, Ford, Holden and Fairfax Media, have recently announced job cuts.Australia's unemployment rate of 4.3% is still near its lowest in more than 30 years. But last week, National Australia Bank warned the figure could hit 7% by 2010. 'There's no doubt that the global financial crisis will have an impact on employment growth in Australia,' Treasurer Wayne Swan said yesterday. 'There is no doubt that we will see, over time, unemployment move up.' In a presentation in Singapore last month, Optus chief executive Paul O'Sullivan pointed to a positive outlook for the telco. He said revenue, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and cashflows were expected to grow during the current quarter.But a week after Mr O'Sullivan's presentation, SingTel's head of Singapore operations, Allen Lew, said Optus' parent company was preparing for tougher times. 'We are adopting a framework that will take into consideration 12 to 18 months of uncertainty and economic slowdown,' Mr Lew said. 'We're starting to curtail costs - discretionary costs, advertising costs.' He said SingTel had no plans to axe jobs in Singapore, but it had frozen hiring.Len Cooper, the CEPU's communications division president, said Optus had advised his union it was planning a 'major reorganisation' a few weeks ago but did not provide details. 'We can only assume this is tied to that,' he said. 'We've only heard rumours last week that there were going to be redundancies.' He said Optus, which uses a non-union collective agreement with its employees, in the past had not informed his union of redundancy plans before they were announced publicly.
