Inflation rose 0.4 per cent in September, compared to a 0.1 per cent increase in August, and a 0.4 per cent rise in July, according to the Melbourne Institute Monthly Inflation Gauge. This is bad news for those who are hoping the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will cut interest rates at its meeting next Tuesday. The figures show that inflation has continued its upward trend in Australia, with the annual inflation gauge reporting a 4.5 per cent rise in the 12 months to September, compared to a 4.2 per cent rise for the 12 months to August. The inflation problem now confronting policymakers is apparent in the fact that not since May 2005 has inflation been below the middle of the RBAs target range, TD Securities senior strategist Joshua William said. 'The persistence of high monthly inflation suggests that the RBA will be reticent to cut interest rates at its Board meeting next Tuesday,' he said, adding that 'even some of the core inflation measures remain high, with the trimmed mean rising by a robust 0.4 per cent in September.' The annual increase in the Inflation Gauge, which measures price increases for fruits, vegetables, and other goods and services, has been at or above 4.0 per cent for the last eight months and at or above 3.0 per cent for 13 consecutive months. Despite this, Mr William predicted a rate cut, saying 'tighter global financial conditions and increased downside global economic growth risks suggest a need to make monetary conditions less restrictive.' 'This means that the RBA will likely cut official interest rates by 25 basis points next Tuesday even though on inflation grounds, policy should remain on hold.' But the co-creator of the Inflation Guage, Professor Don Harding said it seems now clear that there is a rapidly diminishing chance that the RBA will bring inflation under control over the next two years. It seems that Australia is in for a period where inflation will reallocate wealth from lenders to borrowers. Mr William said inflationary pressures stayed high in September, despite a slowing domestic economy and falls in commodity prices. Part of the explanation for inflation remaining elevated appears to come from the fall of the Australian dollar which saw tradeables prices rise one per cent in the month,' he said. The figures showed the biggest contributors to the overall rise in inflation in September were rises in the cost of fruit, vegetables, and petrol. These were partially offset by falls in the prices of bread and cereal products, books, newspapers, and magazines, and domestic holiday travel and accommodation, according to the Melbourne Institute. Excluding the increase in petrol prices, the Inflation Gauge rose 0.3 per cent in September, following a rise of 0.6 per cent in August. The Melbourne Institute said this reversed what was an earlier episode when non-petrol price pressures appeared to be easing. Petrol prices were up 27 per cent over the year and have added around 1.1 percentage points to annual inflation. The price of rental accommodation was also a major contributor to annual inflation having risen 14 per cent over the year.Professor Harding, is forecasting the Australian Bureau of Statistics' (ABS) September quarter CPI figures to rise 1.08 per cent. Based on the Inflation Gauge to September, the ABS September quarter CPI is forecast to rise 1.08 per cent, yielding an annual rate of inflation of 4.3 per cent,' Mr Harding said. Professor Harding added that price pressure remained elevated at record levels in September with prices rising in 32 expenditure groups, falling in 12 for a net balance of 20 rises. The October 2008 TD  MI Inflation Gauge will be released at 1030 AEST Monday 3 November. 
