Fears of a global recession sent local shares plummeting by $56 billion and sent the dollar plunging to a five-year low today. (William West/AFP/) SYDNEYJust 24 hours after Australian stocks spectacularly defied worldwide falls, fears of global recession today wiped $56 billion from the value of local shares and sent the dollar plunging to a five-year low. The five per cent dive on the Australian Stock Exchange was the biggest one-day fall for both major exchange indices since January 22 this year. It followed a brief surge yesterday after the Reserve Bank of Australia stunned the market when it slashed the official cash rate by a full percentage point. The move fired up local trade yesterday, with shares defying global trends for the day with a 1.7 per cent gain. But just 24 hours later that confidence had evaporated, with a rout on the local bourse reflecting the worldwide trend. NabCapital currency strategist John Kyriakopoulos said today's fall came after hopes were dashed for coordinated rate cuts by major central banks last night to stave off world recession. 'We were probably hoping for some coordinated interest rate cuts yesterday and they were not delivered,' he said. 'The perception is the global economy is heading for ruin.' Today, the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index plunged 4.99 per cent, while the broader All Ordinaries tumbled 4.96 per cent. The Australian dollar hit a five-year low, falling 4.40 US cents to 68.34 US cents, the local currency's lowest close since September 29, 2003 and its first close below US70 cents since September 21, 2004.Banks to Reap $2.9 Billion by Not Passing on Full Rate CutBanks are exploiting global financial market uncertainty and will rake in $2.9 billion in extra profits by not passing on yesterday's official interest cut in full, a think tank says. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut its key cash rate by an unexpected one percentage point yesterday, but the commercial banks have lowered their mortgage rates by only 0.8 points. The Australia Institute said the latest RBA figures showed banks had outstanding loans and advances to Australian residents worth $1.46 trillion at July, including residential loans of $722 billion. 'For the banks as a whole, the difference between passing on the full one per cent and passing on 0.8 per cent would be an additional annual profit of up to $2.9 billion on all loans and advances,' said David Richardson, a research fellow at the institute. 'On home mortgages alone, the difference between one per cent and 0.8 per cent is as much as $1.4 billion in additional bank profit.' He said the banks had already made record profits, with figures from the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority showing banks made $23.5 billion in profit over the year to March 2008. 'Already more than $2 for every $100 spent in Australia ends up as after-tax profits for the banks,' he said. According to the banks, current economic conditions have substantially increased their wholesale funding costs. But Mr Richardson argues that under Australian Stock Exchange listing rules, listed entities are required to disclose immediately to the ASX any information that might affect the price of their securities. 'If anything serious was happening to banks' funding costs, it would appear they should have been making announcements to the stock exchange given the listing rules,' Mr Richardson said. 'None of the big five banks made any such statements to the stock exchange over the month prior to the RBA cut.' 
