We're at war. You can tell because Kevin Rudd has suddenly become a wartime prime minister. It's not as literal as donning a flak jacket and issuing war bonds, but you may have noticed some similarities between 'Global Security Crisis PM' John Howard, circa 2001, and 'Global Financial Crisis PM' Kevin Rudd this week.When Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard called a snap press conference in Canberra on Thursday, there was a frisson of excitement: What could this mean? Were they about to announce something big?Given the global trend for government bail-outs, were the PM and his deputy going to join the mob and buy back the Commonwealth Bank or renationalise Qantas?It turned out that all the Prime Minister wanted to do was conduct a textbook Crisis Press Conference. John Howard did a lot of these in the early days of the War On Terror.There are some firm guidelines for such press conferences. The first is that there should be plenty of flags around. The second is that you should always start the press conference by mentioning a recent conversation with a world leader. 'The impact of the global financial crisis continues to be felt around the world,' Rudd began on Thursday. 'I spoke again this morning to the British Prime Minister, Australian time, about the measures which the British Government has just announced in its financial support package.' (Luckily for Gordon Brown, Rudd completely approves of the British rescue package.)So confident is our PM in his new role that he threw in a second world leader, more or less immediately. 'Following a conversation I had with Premier Wen Jiabao a couple of nights ago, on the question of China's growth strategy, it would appear to me to be confirming that China intends long term to accelerate its growth strategy into the future.' But the main point of the Prime Minister's Thursday press conference was to wave around some international reports. This is a key tactic for the wartime PM: find an international report that suggests you're doing the right thing, and brandish it vigorously.Mr Rudd chose the International Monetary Fund report, which this week predicted widespread recession across the globe. But not for us. 'For Australia, the IMF World Economic Outlook document provides a much stronger prognosis,' Rudd rejoiced. 'Positive growth with a two in front of it for '09, and furthermore you see that reflected in the different projections on unemployment. For those major advanced economies, something ahead of 6 per cent, and the numbers projected for Australia [are] ahead of 4 per cent for 2009.'
