By Sumeet Desai and Myles Neligan   LONDON, Jan 16 (Reuters) - New British government measures to boost bank lending could come as early as next week, a Treasury source told Reuters on Friday as shares in several major banks slumped.   State guarantees to get credit moving again could feature high on the government's plan to unblock the flow of credit and help Britain avoid a long and deep recession.   The package is expected to focus on recommendations from former HBOS Chief Executive James Crosby, who was commissioned by the government last year to find ways to revive Britain's home loan market.   In a report last November, Crosby recommended that the government guarantee mortgage-backed securities and invite mortgage lenders to bid for 100 billion pounds of government guarantees over the next two years.   Those guarantees would be attached to high-quality mortgage-backed securities issued by the banks to fund new lending.   The government could even consider widening the scope of the guarantees beyond mortgage-backed securities as many large companies are finding it difficult, if not impossible, to raise funding as a global credit crunch bites.   High level talks about the crisis continued on Friday when Bank of England Governor Mervyn King met Prime Minister Gordon Brown, finance minister Alistair Darling and the Financial Services Authority's chairman, Adair Turner.   The Bank of England and Downing Street confirmed a meeting took place, but neither would comment on what was discussed.   Shares in Barclays closed down 25 percent, the lowest level since 1993. Royal Bank of Scotland fell 13 percent, Lloyds TSB lost 4.9 percent and HSBC was down 2.2 percent.   Dealers blamed worries about capital and write-downs and the return of short-selling after a ban on the practice expired.   U.S.-listed shares of Barclays later pared losses after the bank said it expects next month to report a pretax profit for 2008 that is 'well ahead' of analysts' expectations. Barclays ADR's were down 13.3 percent at $7.20 in New York after earlier trading as low as $5.72.   RESCUE PLAN   Britain's new package could also include an extension of a credit guarantee scheme to banks that the government recapitalised in a 37 billion pounds bailout last year.   That rescue, aimed at buffering lenders against rising losses on toxic assets as well as an anticipated rise in bad debts this year as the UK succumbs to recession, left the government with a 58 percent holding in RBS and a 43.3 percent stake in the combined Lloyds TSB-HBOS bank.   A Bank of England special liquidity scheme aimed at easing the markets could also be extended after its planned expiry at the end of January.   'The Chancellor (Darling) has always said something would be announced before the end of the month and it could come as early as next week,' the source added.   Policymakers are also considering ways of boosting confidence in banks so that they can start lending again if they feel they have adequate capital base.   'They need also to consider whether to do more to underpin the confidence among banks and among investors that is necessary to support the lending the economy needs to emerge from recession,' Bank of England Deputy Governor John Gieve said.   The government stepped in to recapitalise the banks when they were teetering on the edge of collapse, but the situation looks less fragile now, notwithstanding the U.S. government's latest $20 billion cash injection to Bank of America.   'We don't think it's going to involve another round of equity capital injections. There isn't a solvency issue right now. This seems to be more about getting lending to businesses and households up and running again,' Fox-Pitt, Kelton analyst Leigh Goodwin said.   One way of soothing banks' concerns about their capital base might be to buy up their toxic assets -- the creation of a so-called bad bank -- but experts say that could run into its own problems and take time to have any effect.   One particular snag is how to value the toxic assets and the banks may try get a higher price for their assets if they know the governments will buy them up.   (Additional reporting by Peter Griffiths; Editing by Leslie Adler) Keywords: BRITAIN ECONOMY/BANKS   (UK Economics desk, uk.economics@reuters.com, Tel: +44 207 542 7947)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
