Shares in high street bank Barclays plunged by more than 20 per cent today amid fresh fears for the British financial sector.  The staggering drop came after a dire week which has seen the firm unveil plans to axe more than 4,000 jobs.  It also followed the ban on short selling being lifted for the first time since October, although it is not yet known if this contributed to the sudden dive.  The bank had been in positive territory this morning but then went into reverse, closing down 18.33 per cent. At one stage it had fallen as low as 24 per cent in the red.  It has now lost a third of its value this week alone.   Shares in Royal Bank of Scotland, where Sainsburys boss Sir Philip Hampton was said to be taking over, closed down 13 per cent and Lloyds TSB almost five per cent.  Traders appeared desperate to get rid of shares before the weekend in case there was more dire news which markets were closed.  The falls followed a bleak warning from the deputy governor of the Bank of England, Sir John Gieve, that the UK was heading for its sharpest fall in output for decades.  It also came amid fresh turmoil in the global financial sector as the U.S. Treasury spent $138billion bailing out just one bank and another revealed huge losses. More...   Bank of America was given $20billion in immediate state aid and $118billion in guarantees for 'toxic' assets in its second payout from the U.S. rescue fund.  And the largest bank in the world, Citigroup, confirmed it was splitting its firm in two after revealing losses of $8billion for the last quarter of 2008.  Meanwhile, in Ireland, the government announced it was nationalising the Anglo Irish Bank after deciding recapitalisation would be useless.  The Financial Services Authority lifted the restriction on the practice which had applied to 34 stocks as of midnight.  It means investors, typically hedge funds, will once again be able to make money by gambling on share prices falling. More...   Traders borrow shares in a company and sell them on at a certain price in the hope of buying them back later for less money. They then pocket the difference.  The practice was blamed for fuelling the financial crisis last autumn by sparking the huge sell-off in banking shares and banned on certain stocks last September.   MPs including John McFall, chairman of the Treasury Select Committee, had urged the FSA to keep the ban given the current state of banking stocks.   It has promised to reinstate the restriction if necessary and says it will keep rules requiring the disclosure of significant 'short' positions for an extra six months.  When the ban was introduced, FSA chief executive Hector Sants said that while short-selling was a legitimate investment technique in normal market conditions, the 'current extreme circumstances' had given rise to 'disorderly markets'.  In Britain, the Government has already spent 37billion on a recapitalisation package to prevent the whole financial sector falling apart.  But the huge bailout, which set a pattern around the world, has failed to restore lending patterns leaving businesses and families still struggling.  Gordon Brown and Alistair Darling are now considering their next move and thought to be thrashing out plans for a second rescue package.   Options on the table include setting up a 'toxic bank' to house banks' bad debts, a second round of recapitalisation or even 'quantitative easing' - printing more money.  No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts? Click on the icon below an article to save to your favourite stories file
