* Euro rises vs broadly easing dlr as risk aversion cools  * European equities rise in early trade  * Global recession fears haunt, further deleveraging seen  * U.S. election eyed  (Adds quotes, update prices, changes dateline prvs SINGAPORE)  LONDON, Nov 3 (Reuters) - The euro and other high-yielding currencies such as sterling gained against the dollar on Monday, while the yen retreated broadly as rising Asian and European equities helped to dampen extreme risk aversion.  But as investors dipped their toes back into riskier assets, gains were tempered by concerns about a possible prolonged global recession, which kept overall support for the low-yielding dollar and yen intact.  The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index  was up 0.7 percent in early trade. Markets in Japan were closed for a public holiday.  'The equity market seems to have stabilised and that is feeding through to improved sentiment for risky assets on the currency side,' said Lee Hardman, currency economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi-UFJ. 'But we may see more deleveraging, and risk aversion will remain elevated given the risk of a prolonged recession.'  The euro and other high-yielding currencies tumbled last month as investors fled riskier assets and were forced to shed assets to raise funds, which were repatriated into the dollar and yen. The euro saw its biggest monthly fall against the dollar and yen since the common currency's inception in 1999.  At 0910 GMT, the euro was up 0.9 percent at $1.2844 and up 1.7 percent at 127.59 yen .  Sterling rose around 1 percent against the dollar to $1.6288 , while the dollar was up 0.7 percent at 99.20 yen .  Traders said activity had been tame before major events this week, including the U.S. presidential election on Tuesday [ID:nN02470309]. A win by Democrat Barack Obama was generally seen as more favourable for financial markets.  RATE CUTS IN SIGHT  The European Central Bank, the Bank of England and the Reserve Bank of Australia are all expected to lower interest rates to protect their struggling economies from the threat of a looming global recession.  They are all seen easing by at least 50 basis points. Last week the U.S. Federal Reserve cut its key rate by 50 basis points to 1.0 percent and the Bank of Japan (BoJ) cut its rate to 0.30 percent from 0.50 percent.  Emerging giants China and India also cut rates last week.  This week's data was seen underscoring economic weakness, starting with euro zone manufacturing activity, which sank in October below record low levels initially estimated.  The Markit Eurozone Purchasing Managers Index for the manufacturing sector fell to 41.1 -- the lowest in the survey's 11-year history -- from September's 45.0, below the flash estimate and economists' forecasts of 41.3.  The release marks the fifth consecutive month the PMI index has been below the 50 mark that divides growth from contraction.  The U.S. Institute of Supply Management's factory activity index, due out at 1500 GMT, is also expected to show further weakness. Economists expect a reading of 41.5 versus 43.5 in September. (Reporting by Tamawa Kadoya; editing by David Stamp)  
