The Australian sharemarket is expected to open higher today after the United States' markets ried on Friday. US investors set aside a Commerce Department report showing a steep drop in consumer spending to focus on lower interest rates and improving credit conditions.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 144.32 points, or 1.57per cent, to 9325.01, and the Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index gained 14.66 points, 1.54per cent, to 968.75.  The Nasdaq composite lifted 22.43 points, or 1.32per cent, to 1720.95.  CommSec chief equities economist Craig James cautioned that it was hard to get direction from Friday's trading because at the end of the month, investors squared their positions and took profits.  ''But we did have another gain on W Street that's encouraging, and there seems to be a sense that things are settling down,'' he said.  ''We would think that most of our market could be up in the order of 30 to 40 points at the start of trade.'' On Friday, the Australian sharemarket closed marginy higher as cautious investors took profits ahead of another expected interest rate cut this week.  The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index was 16.9 points, or 0.42per cent higher, at 4018, while the broader  Ordinaries put on 25.4 points, or 0.64per cent, to 3982.7.  Mr James said there were amazing valuation levels in Australian stocks at the moment and investors might be attracted to stocks that had taken a beating amid the recent global financial turmoil.  There was a lot of news to come this week, including the US presidential election and the meeting of the Reserve Bank of Australia board tomorrow, and economic data.  Mr James said data issued in the US last week showing that the US economy had contracted was probably positive because now markets had certainty that the US economy was in recession and could focus on recovery.  The US economy contracted at a 0.3per cent annualised pace in the third quarter as the global credit crunch prompted consumers and businesses to reduce spending.  Mr James said that in Australia, the RBA had plenty of room to further reduce rates, and it could spring another surprise this week and reduce interest rates by 75 or 100 basis points, rather than the expected 50 basis points.  Economic data to be issued this week includes retail trade figures, house price index, job advertisements, monthly inflation, building approvals, international trade figures and employment figures.  On the company front, Ridley Corporation and Flight Centre hold their annual  meetings today, West Australian Newspapers Holdings and Mincor Resources NL have their annual  meetings on Wednesday, and News Corp issues its first-quarter results on Wednesday. AAP 
