By Dominic Lau LONDON (Reuters) - The leading share index rose for the sixth straight session on Tuesday, up 4.4 percent as commodity stocks tracked higher crude and metal prices, while banks gained on hopes of a steep interest rate cut this week. The FTSE 100  ended 196.22 points higher at 4,639.50 -- its highest closing level in four weeks -- ahead of the results of the U.S. Presidential election. Nearly 1.5 billion shares changed hands, compared with Monday's 1.23 billion and last week's average of 1.54 billion. The benchmark, however, is still down 28 percent this year, part of a global equity slump sparked by a credit crisis that shook the world's top banks and slowed the economy. Heavyweight oil shares rose along with firmer crude prices, partly boosted by a weaker U.S. dollar. BP , Royal Dutch Shell , BG Group  and Cairn Energy  were up between 4.9 and 8.4 percent. BG Group reported a 140 percent rise in third-quarter profit, beating analysts' forecasts, but said it may delay a key project in Kazakhstan due to rising development costs. Miners were also in demand, lifted by stronger metal prices. BHP Billiton , Rio Tinto , Anglo American , Xstrata , Vedanta Resources , Antofagasta , Kazakhmys  and Lonmin  put on 4.9 to 17.6 percent. 'What the big test would be if this market can press on and may be start making progress towards the 4,660 territory,' said Stephen Pope, chief global market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald Europe. He said only once that level had been breached 'can there be really a sense that we have broken the back of this long decline in the market.' Banks were also standout gainers, with the FTSE 350 banks index  up 4.1 percent. HSBC  rose 3 percent and Barclays  surged 8.4 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland  ended flat, recovering from earlier losses of as much as 9.5 percent after the bank said it faced more writedowns of toxic debts this quarter. Insurers rallied, led by Prudential's  16.3 percent gains. Legal &amp;amp; General  and Aviva  added 8.5 and 8.6 percent, respectively. The Bank of England is expected to cut interest rates by at least 50 basis points at a meeting on Thursday, to spur economic growth. The Reserve Bank of Australia cut rates by 75 basis points on Tuesday, following rate cuts in the United States, Japan, China and Norway last week. The dollar fell against most major currencies as investors awaited the result of the U.S. President election. Opinion polls showed Democrat Barack Obama ahead or even with rival John McCain in at least eight states won by George W. Bush in 2004. Obama led comfortably in all of the states won by Democrat John Kerry in 2004. BUY SIGNALS Morgan Stanley said its market indicators -- valuation, capitulation, risk and fundamentals -- were giving it a 'full house buy signal,' a turnaround from its full house sell signal in June 2007. 'The latest elements that pushed us there have been a capitulation among retail investors, purchasing managers and sell-side analysts, as measured by record mutual fund outflows, ISM new orders (data) below 40 and analysts' revisions collapsing,' the broker said. 'The idea is that when these three groups know about the bad news, equity prices are probably already reflecting it.' Marks &amp;amp; Spencer  advanced 7.8 percent after the retailer posted a better-than-expected 34 drop in first-half profit in a rising consumer downturn. Peers Next  and Kingfisher  gained 2.7 and 6.1 percent, respectively. (Additional reporting by Harpreet Bhal and Simon Falush; editing by John Stonestreet)  2008 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Reuters content is the intellectual property of Thomson Reuters or its third party content providers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 'Reuters' and the Reuters Logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. For additional information on other Reuters media services please visit http://about.reuters.com/media/.
