* Copper slips as attention turns back to economy  * Dollar up early as U.S. election causes 'Obama bounce'  * Copper LME inventories rise 5,825 tonnes (Changes headline, adds NEW YORK to dateline, recasts, updates with New York closing copper prices, adds trader comments)  NEW YORK/LONDON, Nov 5 (Reuters) - Copper led all decliners on the the base metals complex Wednesday, pulled down by early strength in the dollar, rising inventories, and renewed economic concerns one day after the U.S. presidential election.  Tuesday's short-covering rally in the industrial metals complex in the run-up to Democrat Barack Obama's U.S. presidential election victory ran out of steam as prices retraced their gains in response to early strength in the dollar and renewed economic concerns.  'By and large it's going to be dollar driven,' said Charles Cooper, mining analyst at Evolution Securities. 'We're seeing the copper price and some of the other metal prices following that trend.'  Cooper said the U.S. election could off short-term relief to metals markets.  However, he added: 'We're facing a global recession that will affect demand for commodities and we feel that it will be exacerbated by companies reporting balance sheet write downs or negative inventory adjustments.'  In New York, copper for December delivery HGZ8 slipped 13.70 cents, or 7.1 percent, to settle at $1.8190 a lb on the New York Mercantile Exchange's COMEX division, near the bottom of its $1.8120 to $1.9640 session range.  London Metal Exchange copper for three month delivery MCU3 closed at $4,070 a tonne, down $280 from $4,350 on Tuesday.  The value of copper, used in power and construction, is down by more than 50 percent, since a record high of $8,940 in July.  'We believe that volatile price action is going to remain a feature of the base metals markets over the coming months, with a high number of shorts and deep-rooted nervousness,' said a Barclays Capital research report.  Reports on Wednesday highlighted the economic challenges facing Obama and foreshadowed weakness in the government's U.S. labor market report due out on Friday.  The U.S. private sector jobs market deteriorated rapidly in October while the service sector contracted sharply as the worst financial crisis in 80 years hammered the world's largest economy. [ID:nN05256456]  'Now that the election is behind us, all heads are turning back toward the economy,' said Matthew Zeman, head of trading with LaSalle Futures Group in Chicago. 'This morning's ADP numbers came in worse than expected and the ISM was worse than expected, so the focus is back on the economy as it comes out in the numbers and it's not pretty.' Continued...  
