The Australian dollar has opened lower, initially rallying on a multi-billion dollar Chinese stimulus plan before more poor economic data dampened Wall Street.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6680/84, down 1.68 US cents, or 2.45 per cent, from yesterday's close of $US0.6848/52.  Overnight, the unit traded between $US0.6675 and $US0.6985.  Commonwealth Bank manager of institutional services foreign exchange Tim Kelleher said the Australian dollar rose early in the overnight session after the Chinese government announced a $US576 billion ($A862 billion) to keep the country's economy growing.  The Chinese package proposes tax cuts and raised spending over the next two years.  US equities opened firmer before reversing gains on worries about earnings for American companies.  The US government announced a dramatic boost to an aid package for insurer American International Group (AIG), taking the total to more than $US150 billion ($A224.48 billion).  US mortgage finance giant Fannie Mae said it lost nearly $US29 billion ($A43.4 billion) in the third quarter. 'The Aussie rallied initially on the Chinese stimulus package yesterday,' he said from Auckland. 'The Dow has been mostly up last week and drifted off last night.' Mr Kelleher said the Australian dollar again failed to break through $US0.7000 overnight. 'It has failed around there a couple of times (recently). There is a strong line in the sand,' he said. Yesterday's statement on monetary policy released by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) was 'reasonably dovish' and raised expectation of more cuts to the overnight cash rate, Mr Kelleher said.  Lower interest rates, which can help prompt economic activity, typically drive investors away from a currency as they seek higher returns elsewhere. 'The CBA has cut its rate forecasts - another 50 point cut in December and another 50 point in February,' he said. With the Veterans Day public holiday in the US tonight and a lack of data due, Mr Kelleher expected a fairly quiet day for markets.  He said the Australian dollar should struggle to get $US0.6750-80 and would 'just go sideways and down' in the local session.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
