The Australian dollar moved further away from recent two-weeks highs on Thursday, as mounting worries about a global economic slowdown offset strong domestic data and kept investors wary of higher-yielding currencies.  Data released by the government showed Australia added 34,300 new jobs in October, easily beating forecasts of a fall of 10,000 in employment. The jobless rate held steady at 4.3%, confounding expectations of a rise to 4.4%.  But investors chose to sidestep the data as employment is seen as a lagging indicator. Instead, gloomy figures from the United States served as a timely reminder about the grim outlook for the global economy. As a result, investors dumped stocks and commodities amid concerns about falling demand in a downturn.  'We saw stock markets lower and commodities being sold off along with renewed selling from Japanese investors, all combining to weigh down on the Aussie,'' said Amy Auster, head of fx research and international economics at ANZ. 'The jobs data wasn't meaningful, despite the jump in employment.''  In late trade, the Aussie was at $US0.6724, off a session high of $US0.6815 hit soon after the jobs data was released, and down from $US0.6888 late here on Wednesday. It struck a two-week peak of $US0.7015 on Monday.  The Aussie fell to 66.63 yen from 68.55 yen as a fresh bout of risk aversion saw investors unwind risky carry trades. Regional stocks were lower, with Japan's Nikkei falling more than 6 percent at one point.  The focus now shifts to the Bank of England and the European Central Bank, both of whom are expected to slash rates by at least 50 basis points later on Thursday to support their struggling economies.  There was even speculation that the BOE could cut by as much as 100 basis points from the current 4.5%.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) lowered rates earlier this week by a bigger-than-expected 75 basis points and said it expected demand to weaken.  The government on Wednesday slashed growth forecasts and said unemployment will rise in coming months as the credit crunch bites into economic activity and forces companies to shed labour.  Australian bill futures extended gains, with investors pricing in chance of yet another 75 basis-point cut in December, while bond futures also jumped on safe-haven inflows.  Three-year bond futures rose 0.155 points to 95.795, while the 10-year futures contract surged 0.165 points to 94.82.  
