(RTTNews) - The major U.S. index futures are pointing to a lower opening on Tuesday. Nevertheless, positive corporate news, including those from PC maker Hewlett-Packard (HPQ   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating), could bring in bargain hunters into the markets, as they attempt to capitalize on the recent market declines. The Internet space may see optimism following an announcement from Yahoo (YHOO   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) over a possible change of guard, which is seen as a step paving way for consolidation in the sector. A rise in the price of oil should generate some buying interest among commodities, while the thawing in wholesale price inflation is likely to increase hopes of seeing an easier monetary policy.  U.S. stocks opened Monday's session lower, as recession fears intensified as Japan confirmed a recession, retailers turned in disappointing results and the New York Fed's manufacturing survey showed a drop in the business conditions index to a record low. Although industrial production rebounded by much more than analysts had expected in October, downward revisions to the prior month's report took some sheen off the positive data.  The major averages were confined below the unchanged line till the mid-session, when they staged a short-lived recovery. However, they receded again in the afternoon to close down with notable losses. The Dow Industrials fell 223.73 points or 2.63% to 8,274, while the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index receded 22.54 points or 2.58% to 851. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite declined 34.80 points or 2.29% to 1,482.  Among the Dow components, Alcoa (AA   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) tumbled 10.79%, Bank of America (BAC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) dropped 8.47%, Citigroup (C) slid 6.62% and Walt-Disney (DIS   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) declined 6.36%. JP Morgan (JPM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating), Merck (MRK   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) and United Technologies (UTX   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) also showed notable losses. On the other hand, General Motors (GM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) advanced 5.65%, while General Electric (GE   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) and Boeing (BA   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) closed up modestly.  Among the sector indexes, the Amex Securities Broker/Dealer Index slumped 6.29% compared to a 4.71% decline by the KBW Bank Index. The S&amp;amp;P Retail Index and the Philadelphia Housing Sector Index ended down 2.68% and 2.33%, respectively. While the Amex Oil Index slid 3.02%, the Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index receded 2.90%. Gold stocks also came under selling pressure, as reflected by a 3.15% drop by the Amex Gold Bugs Index. In the technology space, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index slipped 2.82%, the Amex Networking Index fell 2.60%, the Amex Computer Hardware Index moved down 3.21%, the Software Holders Index fell 2.81% and the Amex Internet Holders Index was off 2.94%. However, the Amex Airline Index rose 1.50%.  Marc Pado from Cantor Fitzgerald is of the view that November and December are likely to continue the base building process. He said that the final two weeks of December could see pressure related to tax-loss selling by individuals, redemption sales or even fund liquidations or consolidations heading into the end of the calendar year. Therefore, the index is likely to remain range bound between 8,163 and 9,330 for the rest of the year. That said, any violation to the downside cannot be ruled out if the severity of the downturn intensifies.  On the economic front, the New York Fed's empire state manufacturing survey showed a deterioration in the manufacturing index to -25.4 in November, marking the lowest reading since the survey began in July 2001. Most sub-indexes showed significant weakness. The employment index dipped sharply, declining to -28.92 in November from -3.66 in October. On a more negative note, the future business activity index, reflecting conditions 6 months ahead, fell to 13.0 from 24.2 in the previous month.  Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve's industrial production report showed a 1.3% increase in output during October. However, the September reading was revised down to show a decline of 3.7%. Commerzbank commented that industrial production would have dipped 0.8% each in September and October, if the impact of hurricanes and a strike at Boeing (BA   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) were excluded.  Annually, industrial production was down 5.2% in October, the steepest decline since the 2001 recession. More worrisome is the fact that the future looks bleak, given the trimming of investment budgets by corporations, exceedingly weak private consumption and slowing export markets. According to Commerzbank, manufacturing is in the deepest crisis since the double-dip recession of the early 1980s.  Currency, Commodity Markets  Crude oil futures are trading up $0.52 at $55.47 a barrel after declining $2.09 to $54.95 in the previous session. The weaker trend witnessed in Monday's session follows the release of a weak U.S. retail sales report that toned down demand estimates and also an indication from OPEC that it may not cut production quota when they meet on November 29th, as it strives the gauge the impact of the cut announced in October.  Short-term, analysts believe that downside risks will predominate, which may cause prices to dip further from recent highs, although much of the pessimism has already been factored into prices.  Gold futures, which edged down $0.50 to $742 an ounce on Monday, are currently declining $6.70 to $735.30 an ounce.  Among currencies, the U.S. dollar is trading at 96.92 yen compared to the 96.45 yen it fetched at the close of New York trading on Monday. Against the euro, the dollar is valued at $1.2628.  Asia  The major Asian markets trended lower on Tuesday, dragged down by the negative sentiment that prevailed on Wall Street overnight. The Chinese market fell by the most, dropping 6.31% in the session.  Japan's Nikkei 225 average opened notably lower and moved sideways for the rest of the session. The index closed down 194.17 points or 2.28% at 8,328. Financial and Internet stocks saw a significant degree of weakness, while auto and other export-dependent stocks and miners showed mixed sentiment.  Yahoo Japan moved down 5.43%, while Softbank tumbled over 15%. Asahi Glass slumped 6.34% and Daiwa Securities Group fell 7%. Isetan Mitsukosh and Hitachi Construction Materials were down 5.04% and 6.81%, respectively. Mitsubishi Estate declined 8.31% compared to a 7.01% drop by Mitsubishi UFJ.  Mitsui Fudosan, Mitsui Sumitomo, Nippon Oil, Nippon Sheet Glass, Pioneer, Ricoh, Shin-Etsu Chemicals, Sompo Japan, Sumitomo Chemicals, Sumco, Sumitomo Osaka, T&amp;amp;D Holding, Taiheiyo Cement, Terumo, Tokai Carbon, Tokio Marine and Trend Micro were among the other notable decliners. On the other hand, Obayashi, Furukawa and Mazda Motors advanced solidly. Mazda moved to the upside in reaction to speculation that U.S. automaker Ford (F   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) will offload part of its stake in Mazda.  On the economic front, Japan's Cabinet Office reported that the leading index for September rose to 89.4, revised up from the initial estimate of 89.2, but lower than the previous month's 89. While the coincident index rose 0.2 points to 100.9, the lagging index fell 1.2 points to 99.3.  Australia's All Ordinaries, which saw modest losses in the morning, began a steady decline in the afternoon to close down 126.40 points or 3.47% at 3,513. The market witnessed broad based weakness, with energy, consumer staple, healthcare, industrial and material stocks seeing significant weakness.  Miners retreated in the session, with Alumina, BHP Billiton, Newcrest Mining and Rio Tinto all moving to the downside. Bank stocks were also mostly lower, with the exception of National Australia Bank.  South Korea's Kospi opened lower and moved mostly sideways for the rest of the session. The index ended at 1,036, representing a decline of 42.16 points or 3.91%. The market ended lower for the sixth straight session.  Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index opened lower and moved sideways until the afternoon, after which the index legged down further to end down 613.64 points or 4.54% at 12,916. All forty-two of the index components ended the session lower.  HSBC Holdings fell 3.60%, while the other notable decliners included property developers Wharf Holdings, Henderson Land, Shopping Properties and Hang Lung Properties, bank stocks Hang Seng Bank and Bank of China Hong Kong, insurer Ping An and China Life and resource stocks CNOOC and Sinopec.  Europe  The major European markets are also receding on Tuesday. The French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index are falling 0.78% and 0.93%, respectively, while the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index is losing about 0.86%.  On the economic front, the U.K. Office of National Statistics reported that the U.K.'s consumer prices fell to a 4.5% annual rate in October from 5.2% in September. The October rate marked the lowest level since July. On a monthly basis, consumer prices were down 0.2% compared to a 0.5% increase in the previous month.  U.S. Economic Reports  A Labor Department report showed that producer prices declined 2.8%, while the core producer price index increased 0.4%. Economists had expected the headline index to show a 1.8% decline, but the core reading to show 0.1% growth.  Food prices eased 0.2% compared to a 0.2% increase in the previous month. Energy prices declined 12.8%, adding to the 2.9% decline in the previous month. On a year-over-year basis, the producer price index rose an unadjusted 5.2%.  The Treasury Department is due to release a report on the flows of financial instruments into and out of the U.S. for September at 9 AM ET.  The National Association of Homebuilders' is also scheduled to release the results of their survey on homebuilders' confidence on Tuesday.  In October, the NAHB-WF housing market ind...
