The Australian stock market is expected to open in negative territory on Monday after falls on Wall Street, as economists predict further volatility ahead.  CommSec chief equities economist Craig James predicts the local market to open about 40 points lower.'We got a negative lead but then again on Friday we didn't rise to the same extent of the Dow Jones and we're unlikely to fall to the same extent that the US markets fell on Friday,' Mr James told AAP.'We could get a surprise, we do have our stocks at super low valuation levels so investors could embrace the value that's on offer but in this sort of environment investors are probably going to stay a bit wary.'The other thing in terms of our market on Monday is that European markets were higher, US was lower, gold was higher, oil was lower - so it is probably more of a mix lead rather just focusing on the US and how much it was down.'The Dow Jones industrial average fell 337.94 points, or 3.82 per cent, to 8,497.31 on Friday.  The Nasdaq composite index fell 79.85 points, or five per cent, to 1,516.85 and the Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index dropped 38 points, or 4.17 per cent, to 873.29.  The Australian sharemarket reversed its sharp losses of mid week to close up over one per cent on Friday.  The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index rose 50.8 points, or 1.37 per cent, to 3,748.1, while the broader all ordinaries index rose 53.6 points, or 1.46 per cent, to 3,726.0.  AMP Capital chief economist Shane Oliver said he expects another volatile week on the Australian sharemarket.'I can't see the G20 statement have a huge impact on the markets, there was nothing new there,' Mr Oliver said.'It's probably going to take its lead from the US which comes on the back of the worst fall in monthly retail sales ever recorded.'The Group of 20 (G20) leaders have agreed to implement greater financial market transparency and regulation, and to take action to restore growth in flagging economies.  In news this week, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will release minutes of its November 4 board meeting on Tuesday.  RBA governor Glenn Stevens addresses the Committee for Economic Development of Australia at its annual dinner on Wednesday in Melbourne.  Also on Wednesday, RBA deputy governor, economics, Malcolm Edey addresses an Australia and Japan Economic Outlook conference in Sydney.  Economic data out this week includes the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) release of its retail trade data for the September quarter and its international merchandise imports data for October.  A large number of companies are holding annual general meetings this week, including Telstra and OneSteel.  Macquarie Group releases its half year result and annual results are due from Lion Nathan and AWB.
