* FTSE 100 rises for fifth straight session, up 0.7 pct * Miners and oils track firmer raw material prices * Banks fall, Lloyds warns on bad debt  LONDON, Nov 3 (Reuters) - Britain's leading share index rose for a fifth straight session, up 0.7 percent early on Monday, as gains in miners and energy stocks offset weakness in banks, led lower by Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Lloyds TSB (LLOY.L: Quote, Profile, Research). By 0909 GMT, the FTSE 100 .FTSE was up 29.02 points at 4,406.36, after gaining 12.7 percent last week -- its strongest weak on record though last month it lost 10.7 percent overall.  Firmer metal prices boosted mining shares. BHP Billiton (BLT.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Anglo American (AAL.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Xstrata (XTA.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Vedanta Resources (VED.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Antofagasta (ANTO.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Eurasian Natural Resources (ENRC.L: Quote, Profile, Research) advanced 2 to 7.1 percent.  Rio Tinto said it sees most of its projects in a strong position to weather any economic scenario, with its new ilmenite project on track to produce.  Energy stocks were also firmer, with BP (BP.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Royal Dutch Shell (RDSa.L: Quote, Profile, Research), BG Group (BG.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Tullow Oil (TLW.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Cairn Energy (CNE.L: Quote, Profile, Research) up between 0.3 and 5.2 percent.  Banks were the main drag on the index. Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research) sank 7.1 percent, extending Friday's near 13 percent fall on concern that its $12 billion fundraising is more costly than cash on offer from the government. A price target cut from Merrill Lynch and UBS also weighed on the stock.  Lloyds TSB (LLOY.L: Quote, Profile, Research), the British bank in the process of buying rival HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research), lost 1.3 percent after it said its profit for the first nine months of the year fell sharply as a result of financial market turmoil and rising bad debts. [ID:nL3542383]  
