SINGAPORE - Oil prices slipped below $59 (U.S.) a barrel Wednesday as investors come to grips with the prospect that global growth next year will slow more than originally feared, cutting demand for crude products such as gasoline.  Light, sweet crude for December delivery was down 60 cents to $58.73 a barrel, after falling as low as $58.55, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange by midafternoon in Singapore. The contract overnight fell $3.08 to settle at $59.33, the lowest closing price since March 2007.  Oil prices have fallen about 60 per cent in four months, plunging from a record $147.27 in mid-July. We have a pretty good idea that global growth is going to be pretty awful next year and probably not much better in 2010, said Mark Pervan, senior commodity strategist with ANZ Bank in Melbourne. There was clearly a bubble scenario in all commodities, and that bubble has burst. Investors are pricing in slowing crude demand growth from China, whose economy, the world's fourth largest, was once thought to be a counterweight to weakening demand from the U.S. and Europe.  U.S. bank Morgan Stanley earlier this week cut its 2009 forecast for Chinese economic growth to 7.5 per cent from 8.2 per cent. The bank expects Asia outside of Japan to grow 5.5 per cent next year, the U.S. economy to shrink 1.3 per cent and Europe to contract 0.6 per cent. China is now seen as less of a backstop to falling demand in developed countries, Mr. Pervan said. With definitive slowing in China, the market is even more sensitive to negative economic news out of the US and Europe. The World Bank said Tuesday it expects developing countries to grow 4.5 per cent next year, down from its previous forecast of 6.4 per cent growth. Developed countries will likely contract 0.1 per cent in 2009, the Bank said.  Investors have brushed off two recent production cuts by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and prices have continued to fall amid talk of a third quota output reduction next month.  Qatar's prime minister, Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, said Tuesday that fair oil prices of between $70 to $90 per barrel would ensure that expensive oil exploration could continue and help to avert price spikes in the future. The market has become so demand focused that obvious support mechanisms, like OPEC cutting supply, don't have the same impact, said Mr. Pervan, who expects prices to fall to $45 a barrel during the first quarter of next year.  Investors will be watching for signs of slowing U.S. demand in the weekly oil inventories report to be released Wednesday from the U.S. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration. The petroleum supply report was expected to show that oil stocks rose 1.1 million barrels last week, according to the average of estimates in a survey of analysts by Platts, the energy information arm of McGraw-Hill Cos.  The Platts survey also showed that analysts projected gasoline inventories rose 850,000 million barrels and distillates increased 1 million barrels last week.  In other Nymex trading, heating oil futures rose 0.6 cents to $1.93 a gallon, while gasoline prices gained 1.1 cents to $1.32 a gallon. Natural gas for December delivery fell 0.8 cents to $6.69 per 1,000 cubic feet.  In London, December Brent crude fell 54 cents to $55.17 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.
