Oil slid for a third straight day to hit a 22-month low of $US55 a barrel, after a 5% overnight loss, as mounting pessimism about the global economy outweighed OPEC's comments that it could cut output again as early as end-November.  OPEC officials, concerned about oil's steep drop from record highs over $US147 a barrel per day (bpd) in July, said the cartel could possibly decide by the end of the month to cut production again to raise prices.  But comments from the producer group failed to lift oil prices, as investors focused on near-term demand woes after the US Energy Information Administration (EIA) slashed America's  2008 oil demand outlook and the International Energy Agency (IEA) flagged further reduction in its oil forecast.  US light crude for December delivery fell 40 cents to $US55.76 a barrel, after having fallen earlier to $US55.03 - the lowest since Jan. 29, 2007. The contract fell $US3.17 to settle at $US56.16 a barrel on Wednesday.  London Brent crude fell 41 cents to $US51.96.  ''Oil prices continue to be pressured by fears that weaker international economic growth will depress oil consumption,'' said David Moore, a commodities strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  Oil's overnight fall came after the US government shifted its position on how it planned to use its $US700 billion bailout fund, which added uncertainty to financial markets and renewed fears of a protracted global recession.  Expectations that US government data would show a further build-up of its crude and gasoline stocks also weighed on prices, analysts said.  Analysts polled by Reuters ahead of US weekly inventory data forecast crude oil stocks rose 1.2 million barrels last week, while distillate inventories were seen rising by 800,000 barrels. Analysts also forecast a 300,000 barrel rise in gasoline stocks. The data will be released on Thursday, a day later than usual due to the US Veterans' Day holiday on Tuesday. Continued...  Page  1 2  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
