The U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) rose 0.3%, or 11.46 points, to 4,388.80. The London index is on track for its fifth straight session of gains after last week's rate-cutting moves in the U.S. and Asia. Other European shares were also higher, while U.S. stocks advanced on Wall Street ahead of this week's presidential election.   Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin, said that the election could help to push the markets ahead 'simply because there will be a new lease of life for the presidency in the U.S.' But he said that recent moves by global central banks to bring interest rates down and efforts by the U.S. Federal Reserve to prevent deflationary malaise are more of a driver for stocks at the moment. 'There's a better tone, at least for now,' he said. The Bank of England and the European Central Bank are expected to cut rates sharply on Thursday. Homebuilders were doing well against this backdrop, with Taylor Wimpey (UK:TW: news, chart, profile) shares up 30% and Barratt Developments (UK:BDEV: news, chart, profile) up 15.6%. Miners - which are sensitive to perceptions of economic growth -- were also advancing, with BHP Billiton (BHP:BHPNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BLT: news, chart, profile) shares up 1.4%. The mineral extractor said it has no plans to cut iron-ore output or slow expansion plans. That's despite Brazilian iron-ore rival Vale (RIO:RIONews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) announcing cutbacks over the weekend because of slow demand. Other mining companies recouping some recently-lost ground included Xstrata (UK:XTA: news, chart, profile) , up 9.1% and Kazakhmys (UK:KAZ: news, chart, profile) , up 16.9%. Gold climbed $10.50 to $729.80 an ounce. HBOS up Shares of mortgage lender HBOS (UK:HBOS: news, chart, profile) rose 9.3% as the lender detailed losses over the first nine months of the year and more details on its planned takeover by Lloyds TSB (LYG:LYGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:LLOY: news, chart, profile) . HBOS said Monday that the deal is proceeding according to plan. A Scottish financier, Jim Spowart, said over the weekend that there's another potential bid, but no alternative bid has been announced. Separately, Lloyds TSB said that market dislocation, insurance-related volatility and higher impairment charges hurt profit before tax in the first nine months of the year. Shares dipped 0.6% but were 17% higher than a week ago. . Barclays (BCS:BCSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BARC: news, chart, profile) dropped another 5%, extending sharp losses made Friday when it announced a deal to raise up to $11.9 billion, mostly from Middle Eastern investors. 'Barclays announced plans to raise more capital but on more dilutive terms than we had been expecting, prompting 17% reductions in our earnings-per-share forecasts,' said Jason Napier at Deutsche Bank. 'We believe some are now of the view that Barclays would have been better served to seek U.K. government funding with its lower 12% preference share coupon and no equity conversion,' he added. HSBC Holdings (HBC:HBCNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:HSBA: news, chart, profile) declined 0.8%, while Royal Bank of Scotland (UK:RBS: news, chart, profile) fell 4.6%. Tesco downgraded Tesco (UK:TSCO: news, chart, profile) shares dropped 2.5% after the U.K. supermarket giant was downgraded to sell from hold at Societe Generale. The broker said that the U.K. supermarket giant faces a weakening grocery market at home. The broker also highlighted 'brewing problems' for the supermarket's overseas businesses including exposure to foreign mortgage debt in Poland, austerity measures in Hungary and a likely fall in consumer spending in South Korea in response to a slowing export-driven economy. Shares in smaller rival Sainsbury (UK:SBRY: news, chart, profile) fell 3.5%. Vodafone Group (VOD:VODNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:VOD: news, chart, profile) shares dropped 4.1%. 'New management transition could hardly have come at a worse time as the bitter taste of weakness in Spain lingers, the global economy deflates and emerging market sentiment collapses,' noted analysts at Deutsche Bank. Still, they noted that the current void on news should be filled when the company reports first-half results on Nov. 11.  LONDON (MarketWatch) -- London shares advanced modestly on Monday as investors took on board efforts to support the global economy, with miners pacing the gains.
