boosted by hopes that a massive stimulus package in China would help the global economy avert a recession.  At 5:04 a.m. ET, Dow Jones industrial average, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 and Nasdaq 100 futures were all higher.  Futures measure current index values against perceived future performance and offer an indication of how markets will open when trading begins in New York.  China unveiled a $586 billion stimulus package Sunday that gave stocks around the world a boost. Asian markets ended Monday's session sharply higher and European shares advanced in morning trading.  Wall Street looked set to track those gains, although the mood could change with the release of earnings from AIG and Fannie Mae (FNM, Fortune 500). Uncertainty surrounding the fate of the U.S. auto industry could also pressure stocks.  AIG: The insurance giant is due to post quarterly results Monday. The former Dow component is expected to report a loss of 90 cents per share versus a profit of $1.44 a year ago, according to a consensus of analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.  AIG (AIG, Fortune 500) may also announce a revised $150 billion bailout deal from the federal government that offers more favorable lending terms, according to the Wall Street Journal.  Automakers: All eyes are also focused on battered auto giants General Motors (GM, Fortune 500), Ford (F, Fortune 500) and Chrysler, which have been pushing for aid on Capitol hill.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said in a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on Saturday that the administration should consider expanding the $700 billion financial industry bailout to include car companies.  DHL: German-based Deutsche Post World Net, the parent company of DHL, will announce plans for its U.S. operations to investors Monday. The is reportedly due to announce cutbacks that could affect up to 13,000 jobs.  Economy: In addition to the jobs report, a slew of reports are on tap. A reading on pending home sales is due at 11:30 a.m. ET. At 10 a.m. ET, the Commerce Department will release its report on wholesale inventories. At 3 p.m. ET, the Federal Reserve will release its report on consumer credit, a measure of consumer debt.  Oil and dollar: Oil prices rose, as investors bet China's stimulus package would help underpin demand for crude. U.S. crude for delivery climbed $2.42 to $63.46 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange   The dollar gained against the yen but slipped versus the euro. 
