as investors picked up shares in beaten-down companies such as insurer Prudential and miner Anglo American.The U.K. FTSE 100 index jumped 3.7%, or 153.42 points, to 4,322.63.Other European shares were higher although U.S. stock futures declined. See Europe Markets. See Indications.On Thursday, Wall Street stocks raced higher as a downtrodden market nearly recouped three days of stiff losses in one crazed session.'Certainly the rally last night has convinced many to enter the market,' said Joshua Raymond, market strategist at spreadbetting firm City Index. 'We have seen some strong buying in both the miners and oil this morning, mainly on the back of both sectors being heavily sold this week,' he added. Even with Friday's gains, the FTSE 100 is still down about 32% over the past year.In the mining sector, shares of Anglo American jumped 9%, while oil producer Royal Dutch Shell climbed 6.6%.Of financials, Prudential shares shot up 14.2%, paring losses made since the start of October to 39%. Royal Bank of Scotland shares climbed 3.2% after U.K. media outlets reported that the lender is looking to cut 3,000 jobs. A spokeswoman at RBS didn't confirm the job cut plans.Other lenders on the move included Barclays , up 2%, and Standard Chartered , up 8.2%. Brokers weigh inPearson shares jumped 4.4% after the publisher of the Financial Times newspaper was upgraded to neutral from underperform by Credit Suisse as part of a broader note on European professional publishers, noting their counter-cyclical performance. A day after a Morgan Stanley downgrade led to heavy selling pressure, Goldman Sachs upgraded Icap to neutral from sell. Shares rose 1.9. 'While we still believe that the interdealer brokers face meaningful cyclical headwinds and our structural concerns remain, we believe that the market has moved to discount much of this scenario in the current price,' the broker said.Smaller competitor Tullett Prebon fell 6.1%. Revenue in the four months to the end of October rose 26% to 332 million pounds ($492 million) as high levels of volatility in the market continued. The group also said it's taking action to reduce its cost base for next year.Shares in hedge fund manager RAB Capital surged 29.6%. The firm said that it will shut several funds and scrap its plans to build a retail fund business after assets under management slumped further in October. The group said assets under management had fallen to around $2.8 billion at the start of November from around $4.2 billion on Sept. 25 due to further asset outflows and negative investment performance. 'RAB's implosion has been rapid. Its immediate prospects are grim. It has the salvation of a strong balance sheet,' said Jason Streets at Evolution Group.
