Australian shares have slumped to their lowest level since October 2004 after Wall Street plunged on changes to the US bailout plan.  In recent trading, the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index fell as much as 3.2%, or 127.1 points, to 3800.2.  The Aussie dollar also took a battering as investors dumped assets deemed as relatively risky. It was recently buying 63.63 US cents, more than 2 US cents lower than yesterday's local close of 66.02 US cents. It was also buying 60.63 yen and 51.1 euro cents.  Investors took a dim view of the decision by US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson not to tap the government's $US700 billion bail-out fund to buy banks' soured mortgage assets after all.  'The ground rules seemed to have changed,' said Kevin Massey, manager of corporate broking, at Foster Stockbroking. 'We had a plan and that plan seems to have changed to another plan.'  'People are now saying 'is there a plan?''  Mr Massey said the incoming Obama administration had thrown up questions about the focus of the US government's response to the financial crisis.  'Obama is going to be more anxious to direct (the relief) to consumers, to the man in the street,' rather than businesses.  'Nothing that creates uncertainty is good for markets,' Mr Massey said. 'In those terms it can't be good because it continues to undermine confidence.'  The Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted 4.7% overnight, with the broader Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index and the Nasdaq composite index both sinking 5.2%.  The main European markets ended lower, with London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares shedding 1.5%, Germany's DAX down 3% and the CAC 40 losing 3.1% in Paris.  Australian resource stocks are set for a rough ride with oil and gold prices declining overnight. The closely watched Reuters/Jefferies CRB commodity price index was off 1.7%.  On the economic front today, the Australian Bureau of Statistics releases average weekly earnings data for the August quarter, while Westpac and the Melbourne Institute release their Index of Consumer Inflation Expectations and Consumer Unemployment Expectations for November.  Corporate news today may focus on St George Bank's extraordinary general meeting to vote on its proposed merger with Westpac. Dairy Farmers shareholders also get to vote on the proposed acquisition by National Foods.  Elsewhere, shareholders are likely to get updates on company outlooks with annual general meetings scheduled for Commonwealth Bank, Lend Lease, Fairfax Media (publisher of this website), BlueScope Steel, Wesfarmers and Austereo Group.  Woodside Petroleum, meanwhile, holds an investor briefing.  Yesterday, the Australian share market closed in the red for a second consecutive day with the broader All Ordinaries index ending 38.2 points lower, or 1%, at 3,883.6.  
