Oil prices fell below $56 Monday and gasoline futures plunged to a new low as Japan joined a number of European nations in recession and provided even more evidence of a broad deterioration in demand for energy.  Light, sweet crude for January delivery dropped $2.11 to settle at $55.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gasoline futures fell 5 percent, or 6.45 cents to $1.1746 a gallon after earlier touching a 52-week low of $1.168. 'This is just a continuation of the weak demand theme in energy,' said Jim Ritterbusch, president of energy consultants Ritterbusch and Associates.  Japan, the world's second-largest economy, said it slid into a recession for the first time since 2001 after gross domestic product contracted at an annual pace of 0.4 percent in the third quarter after a shrinking 3.7 percent in the second quarter. Japan now joins the 15-nation euro-zone in recession, defined as two straight quarters of GDP contraction. 'Markets are very worried about the international economic outlook, about oil consumption,' said David Moore, a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. 'As data is released in the U.S., Europe and other countries, investors get a reminder of the economic problems in the developed world.' Oil rebounded from an overnight drop Monday as cold weather heading into the East drove up heating oil and natural gas futures and a government report showed a surprise jump in U.S. industrial output.  The Federal Reserve on Monday said industrial output rose 1.3 percent last month, reflecting a return to more normal operations at chemical plants, oil refineries and drilling platforms following hurricanes that hit the Gulf Coast.  but Ritterbusch said he cautions clients not to read too much into one week of government figures as the numbers are often revised. He said several agency reports due this week should give a wider view of the nation's economy.  Labor releases its producer price index on Tuesday and its consumer price index on Wednesday, Commerce releases housing starts on Wednesday and the Conference Board releases leading indicators on Thursday. 'We've got a pretty full schedule of releases so this was just one of them that we managed to get through,' Ritterbusch said. 'I'm not as confident about the rest of them being so optimistic.' Gas prices continued to drop overnight, with the national average price for regular dropping 1.8 cents to $2.087 a gallon, according to according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express. That is nearly $1 a gallon below what it was a month ago and nearly $2 below where it was in July when prices peaked at $4.11 per gallon.  Crude traders have been watching company profit reports in recent weeks for signals about the economy and energy demand. Monday was no different.  Lowe's said its third-quarter profit fell 24 percent as consumers postponed home-improvement projects and big-ticket purchases as an all-but-certain recession looms. Discount retailer Target Corp. said Monday that a difficult retail environment and weak results from its credit-card segment led to a 24 percent decline in third-quarter earnings.  The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 100 points and markets in Europe fell as well.  Germany's DAX fell 3.25 percent and the CAC-40 in France fell more.  Oil prices have tumbled more than 60 percent since peaking near $150 a barrel in mid-July.  OPEC announced another emergency meeting for the end of the month to try to shore up prices, but even a daily 1.5 million barrel production cut announced last month did not stop oil's slide.  Chakib Khelil, Algeria's energy minister and president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the cartel hasn't yet fully enforced previous quotas or collected all current production data, and it isn't realistic to expect a decision during a Nov. 29 emergency summit convened in Cairo, Egypt.  On Saturday, Iran called on OPEC to reduce output quotas by up to another 1.5 million barrels a day at the Cairo meeting, but Khelil said the request is a 'wish.' OPEC accounts for about 40 percent of world crude supply.  In addition to the emergency summit, the cartel also plans to meet in Oran, Algeria, on Dec. 17.  In other Nymex trading, heating oil fell 3.68 cents to $1.795 a gallon while natural gas for December delivery rose 22 cents to settle at $6.533 per 1,000 cubic feet. In London, Brent crude fell $1.93 to settle at $52.31 on the ICE Futures exchange.
