THE share market is expected to open higher tomorrow after the United States' markets rallied on Friday.  US investors set aside a Commerce Department report showing a steep drop in consumer spending to focus on lower interest rates and improving credit conditions.   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 144.32 points, or 1.57 per cent, to 9325.01, and the Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index gained 14.66 points, 1.54 per cent, to 968.75. The Nasdaq composite lifted 22.43 points, or 1.32 per cent, to 1720.95.   CommSec chief equities economist Craig James cautioned that it was hard to get direction from Friday's trading because at the end of the month, investors squared their positions and took profits. 'But we did have another gain on Wall Street - that's encouraging, and there seems to be a sense that things are settling down,'' he said. 'We would think that most of our market could be up in the order of 30 to 40 points at the start of trade.''   On Friday, the Australian sharemarket closed marginally higher as cautious investors took profits ahead of another expected interest rate cut this week. The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index was 16.9 points, or 0.42 per cent higher, at 4018, while the broader All Ordinaries put on 25.4 points, or 0.64 per cent, to 3982.7.   Mr James said there were 'amazing'' valuation levels in Australian stocks at the moment and investors may be attracted to stocks that had taken a beating amid the recent global financial turmoil.   There was a lot of news to come this week, including the US presidential election and the meeting of the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) board on Tuesday, and economic data.   Mr James said data released in the US last week showing that the US economy had contracted was probably 'positive'' because now markets had certainty that US economy was in recession and could focus on recovery.   The US economy contracted at a 0.3 per cent annualised pace in the third quarter as the global credit crunch prompted consumers and businesses to reduce spending.   Mr James said interest rates coming down was helping to settle markets.   He said that here in Australia, the RBA had plenty of room to further reduce rates and it could spring another surprise this week and reduce interest rates by 75 or 100 basis points, rather than the expected 50 basis points.   Economic data to be released this week includes retail trade figures, house price index, job advertisements, monthly inflation, building approvals, international trade figures, employment figures and tourism data.   On the company front, Ridley and Flight Centre hold their annual general meetings tomorrow; West Australian Newspapers and Mincor Resources have their annual general meetings on Wednesday; and News Corp (the parent company of the publisher of news.com.au) releases its first quarter results on Wednesday.   On Thursday, IBA Health Group, Tassal Group, PrimeAg Australia and Riviera Resources hold their annual general meetings.   On Friday, annual general meetings to be held include PMP, Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Power, IMF Australia, Pan Pacific Petroleum, Ansell, Macmahon, Sunset Energy and Jameson Resources.
