Petro-Canada defers decision on Fort Hills mine  CALGARY, Alberta (Reuters) - Petro-Canada   said on Monday it will delay a final go-ahead for the mining portion of its planned C$21 billion ($17 billion) Fort Hills project, looking to the weak economy and falling oil to lower overheated costs that have plagued rival oil sand ventures. The company, Canada's No. 4 integrated oil exploration and refining firm, said it will not make a decision on proceeding with the mine until next year, instead of December as initially promised, because it expects costs to decline as oil sands projects fall by the wayside.  Barclays cuts Research In Motion price target  (Reuters) - Barclays Capital cut its price target on BlackBerry maker Research In Motion's stock to $60 from $90, and said it expects a 5 percent decline in global handset units sales from prior forecasts of 3 percent growth in 2009. Barclays cut its smartphone growth estimate to 25 percent from 40 percent amid a rapidly deteriorating retail climate and Nokia Oyj's reduced forecast.  NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices dropped more than 3 percent on Monday to the lowest level in nearly 22 months as Japan became the latest major economy to fall into recession, stoking concerns that global fuel demand will fall further. Worries about the global economy mounted after Citigroup said it would cut 52,000 jobs. A Philadelphia Federal Reserve survey showed the U.S. economy fell into recession last spring and forecast it would contract sharply this quarter.  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index slumped 3 percent on Monday as financial services and commodity-related issues were pulled down by gloomy sentiment from a faltering world economy. The S&amp;amp;P/TSX composite index  unofficially closed down 268.75 points, or 2.97 percent, at 8,787.21.  Too early to speak of aid to Canada autos: PM aide  OTTAWA (Reuters) - It would be premature for the Canadian government to announce in a policy speech this week what, if any, aid it may give to the struggling auto sector, a top aide to Prime Minister Stephen Harper told a briefing on Monday. The Conservative government is due to unveil its plans for the new session of parliament at 2 p.m. on Wednesday.  Bombardier signs $212 million deal with Siemens  BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Canadian manufacturer Bombardier said on Monday its transport unit had signed a contract with Siemens to assemble part of the German group's trains for the Brussels railway network. The initial order is valued at about 168 million euros ($212 million) and covers the procurement and manufacturing activities for the painting, end-assembly and testing of the trains, Bombardier said in a statement.  Dollar slides on dim commodities outlook  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada's dollar fell against the U.S. dollar on Monday, as investors worried about the dimming long-term prospects for the prices of oil and other commodities that Canada exports. Canadian bond prices, with no domestic data to influence moves, rose on a safe-haven bid after an emergency summit of leaders from the Group of 20 nations ended with few concrete proposals.  TORONTO (Reuters) - Export Development Canada is no longer taking requests from autoparts makers for insurance against receivables due from Chrysler LLC , the government agency said on Monday, signaling growing fears the automaker may go bankrupt. EDC backstops mainly small and medium-sized businesses by providing insurance covering up to 90 percent of losses if a customer refuses to pay. That includes when a customer goes bankrupt, declares insolvency or cancels a contract.  WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Vernon Hill, former chief executive of Commerce Bancorp Inc, agreed to pay $4 million to settle allegations of unsafe banking practices, regulators said on Monday. Commerce forced Hill out in June 2007 after regulators complained about dealings between the bank and partnerships controlled by Hill as well as an architectural design firm run by Hill's wife, Shirley.  Masonite runs out of time, defaults on debt: sources  NEW YORK (Reuters) - Masonite International, a Canadian door maker struggling to avoid bankruptcy, is expected to be deemed in default on its debt after running out of time to make an overdue interest payment, according to sources familiar with the situation. Masonite, which is owned by private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp;amp; Co, failed to make an interest payment on its $770 million in bonds on October 15, and had until Sunday, November 15 to make up for the failure.  
