as investors took profit after prices leapt 10 percent in the previous session, but losses were tempered as traders awaited the results of the U.S. presidential election before making any major moves.  U.S. oil settled up $6.62, or 10.36 percent, at $70.53 a barrel on Tuesday -- the largest one-day gain since September 22, when it soared nearly 16 percent ahead of contract expiry and weakness in the U.S. dollar.  U.S. light crude for December delivery fell 66 cents to $69.87 a barrel by 7:48 p.m. EDT. 'The 10 percent jump last night was fairly extreme and what we're seeing this morning is nothing more than a partial correction from some profit taking,' said David Moore, a commodities strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  Moore said oil's movement would largely be influenced by the U.S. dollar and although the result of the U.S. election was not expected to have a direct impact on crude, prices would probably be swayed by performance on the equities markets.  On Wednesday, the dollar rose against a basket of major currencies after posting its biggest one-day slide in 13 years the previous day, when a thaw in credit markets pointed to a recovery in investor risk appetite.  The dollar inched up 0.2 percent against the euro to $1.2960 on trading platform EBS. The dollar was steady against the yen at 99.78 yen, after slipping to 99.45 yen earlier.  Democrat Barack Obama and Republican John McCain began a nervous wait for results and faced the verdict of U.S. voters after a long and bitter struggle for the White House, with Obama holding a decisive edge in national opinion polls.  Oil's surge on Tuesday came on signs that OPEC kingpin Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members had made cuts in crude exports.  The rally was also helped by a tumble in the U.S. dollar, which posted its biggest one-day slide against the euro since that currency's 1999 launch, as investors bet that global interest rate cuts and a credit market thaw would alleviate the global financial crisis.  Saudi Arabia has reduced exports after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed last month to lower output, according to trade sources, with some estimating the world's top exporter had cut shipments by around 900,000 barrels per day (bpd) from a peak in August.  In addition to Saudi Arabia, other OPEC members including Venezuela, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar were also showing signs of throttling back output in line with an OPEC decision last month to cut output by 1.5 million bpd.  Crude prices have fallen by about half from a record above $147 a barrel in July as the global credit crisis hit the wider economy, damping fuel demand in major consumer nations, including the United States.  An updated poll of analysts ahead of U.S. weekly government inventory data forecast U.S. crude oil stocks rose by 1.1 million barrels last week. The analysts predicted a rise of 1.4 million barrels in distillate inventories and a decline of 800,000 barrels in gasoline stocks.  (Reporting by Fayen Wong; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)
