Sentiment in global stock markets has improved ahead of the US presidential election today.  But chartists expect limited upside in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which closed at 9,325 points on Friday.  In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index reached 14,889 at one stage yesterday. But it gave up some gains, closing 375 points higher at 14,344. If the HSI can clear the 19-day moving average (now at 14,477) it may be able to rebound to 16,283.  Those whose stock holdings comprise more than 50 percent of their portfolios may want to consider raising their cash positions when the market rallies again.  In the past few days, collateralized debt obligation spreads tightened a bit. Overnight interbank rates dropped back, but that doesn't mean banks are eager to lend again.  And high-yield currencies recovered some losses against the US dollar although both the Bank of England and the Reserve Bank of Australia are expected to cut interest rates again.  The Australian dollar has strengthened against the US dollar from around 0.60 to 0.68.  The Reuters-CRB Index, which measures commodity price movements, has fallen 45 percent from 475 to 260, indicating the commodity bull run is over.  Dr Check cannot see any reason to go long on metal prices any more.  As raw materials account for 60 percent of Australia's exports, the risk of deflation is higher than inflation. Analysts expect the economy to slow to its weakest pace in nearly 20 years in 2009 with gross domestic product growth at 1.8 percent.  So there is room for further rate cuts.  The greenback may continue to strengthen against major high-yield currencies as more money flows back home just like the Japanese yen gaining ground in the early 1990s after the property and stock bubble burst.  Trading in CITIC Pacific (0267) shares has been suspended pending a price- sensitive announcement.  An asset injection from the conglomerate's Beijing parent might be made to increase its capital. This will of course be good news for stockholders.  But Dr Check wonders whether the management will take advantage of the recent strength of the Aussie dollar to lock up the loss in its toxic foreign exchange contracts.  If you have a wound, the first and most important step is to stop the bleeding to avoid a bigger problem. It is just simple logic.  Dr Check and/or The Standard bear no responsibility for any investment decision made based on the views expressed in this column.  
