(Dow Jones Commodities News Select via Comtex) -- INTC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- (Adds information, quotes, updates/adds market information)  Asian share markets were falling Thursday after Wall Street slumped, with concerns about the corporate earnings outlook after some gloomy words from technology bellwether Intel Corp.  Australia's S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 was down 3.9% with Japan's Nikkei 225 falling 5.1%, Korea's Kospi Composite down 5.9% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index lower by 6.1%; U.S. stock futures were around 1% lower in screen trade.  'Every asset class and now every company is affected by the vast array of feedback loops that stem from the dangerous cocktail of global recession, credit crunch and deleveraging,' said Commonwealth Bank's chief London strategist, Divyang Shah.  'Households, corporates and financials are hunkering down for the long road ahead and while these actions individually make sense, they are collectively adding oxygen to the wildfire.'  Tech stocks and financials were bearing the brunt of the selling in Asia: After the close in the U.S., Intel said its fourth quarter business was below expectations amid weaker demand; it slashed its revenue and gross margin forecasts for the quarter - less than a month after its last guidance update - in a sign of how quickly things have turned for the worse in the tech sector as economic growth slows in the U.S. and elsewhere.  It was particularly bad news as markets headed into the end-year holiday period, traditionally a stronger time for consumer spending; Intel shares were down 7% after-hours in the U.S., taking other large-cap tech stocks down, too.  'It looks like world markets will take another leg down in the next few days,' said Goldman Sachs JB Were senior sales trader, Patrick Crabb; 'we passed through the eye of the hurricane, and are now back feeling the full force of the storm.'  The Japanese yen was supported - though off its recent highs - in a climate of risk aversion; the Australian dollar was under pressure, but off its low with the central bank in Australia saying it had intervened earlier to buy the currency.  The share market declines came after the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 4.7% to 8282.66, within 110 points of its lowest close in five and a half years on Oct. 27; the Nasdaq dropped 5.2%.  Trading volumes remained low in Asia, which was exacerbating volatility.  'There's basically a lack of money in the market, both from big and small players,' said a trader at a foreign brokerage in Singapore.  In Japan, financial stocks were leading decliners, with Mizuho Financial down 5.7%; tech stocks were being sold on the Intel news with Sony down 7.3% and Advantest falling 5.3%.  Financials were also falling in Australia with ANZ down 4.2% and Commonwealth Bank of Australia falling 4.4%; Commonwealth Bank in a trading update said it'd face higher provisions in its first half result, due to exposure to some recently-troubled companies.  Among mining stocks, BHP Billiton had fallen 8.1%.  In Korea, banks and builders were lower on news that medium-sized company Shinsung Engineering &amp;amp; Construction had filed for court receivership, with Hana Financial down 14.4% and GS Engineering &amp;amp; Construction falling 9.7%.  Tech stocks were lower, too, with Samsung Electronics off 4.1%.  The tech-heavy Taiwan market was down 5.2% with Compal Electronics falling 6.9% and Quanta Computer down 6.2%.  Shares in Asia's liquid crystal display makers were lower on news that LG Display, Sharp and Chunghwa Picture Tubes had been fined in a U.S. price-fixing case; Sharp was down 6.8%, Chunghwa off 7% and LG Display off 12.6%.  Singapore's Straits Times Index had fallen 2.7%; New Zealand's NZX-50 was down 1.5% with Malaysia's main index falling 1.6% and Philippine shares down 1.6%.  In currency markets, the U.S. dollar was near Y94.95, from Y94.92 late in New York, and the euro was at Y118.50, from Y118.55, with both off their early lows; the euro was around $1.2460 with the Australian dollar near US$0.6370.  A trader at a bank in Tokyo cautioned against reading much into the move by the yen off its highs, saying the currency would retain an upward bias.  'Dollar/yen probably has hit the peak for the day,' he said.  Barclays Capital analysts expected further falls for the euro and Australian dollar in the near term; 'we continue to see that financial markets have not adequately priced the downside risks to global growth coming from the credit crunch and expect highly cyclical crosses...to move lower.'  The U.S. dollar was higher against most regional currencies, as money flowed out of stock markets.  Government bonds were rising with lead Japanese government futures up 0.52 at 138.61 and the 10-year bond yield down 2.5 basis points.  Spot gold was little changed, down 35 cents from New York at $709.75 an ounce, despite fading stocks, which might have spurred safe-haven demand for gold.  'We're kind of living in a different world right now,' said one trader, with weakness in equities prompting selling in gold in order to raise money for stock margin calls.  Front-month Nymex crude fell 75 cents to $55.41 per barrel on Globex, adding to a $3.17 fall in New York on worries about fading demand.  'The complex remains on a decided downward course (but) should begin to acquire some support within the $50 to $55 zone. Weakness in the stock market continues to provide a portent of a dramatic weakening in the economy capable of further deterring oil demand,' said Jim Ritterbusch at Ritterbusch and Associates.  -By Rosalind Mathieson, Dow Jones Newswires; +65-6415-4140; Rosalind.Mathieson@dowjones.com  TALK BACK: We invite readers to send us comments on this or other financial news topics. Please email us at TalkbackAsia@dowjones.com. Readers should include their full names, work or home addresses and telephone numbers for verification purposes. We reserve the right to edit and publish your comments along with your name; we reserve the right not to publish reader comments.  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=gyqrrrOUgvITV9NeLavKMw%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-12-08 2116ET  For full details on Intel Corp (INTC) click here. Intel Corp (INTC) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on Intel Corp (INTC) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
