By Joanne Frearson  The leading share index ended 2.4 percent lower on Monday, with commodity and banking stocks bearing the brunt of the falls as fears of a global recession mounted.  The FTSE 100 was down 100.81 points at 4,132.16 after closing 1.5 percent higher on Friday. 'It is all about the recession. Everything is being revised down and it looks like we could be in for the worst recession in 30 years. All sectors such as banks, commodities and retailers -- which will not do well in a slowdown -- are being hit,' said Peter Dixon, strategist at Commerzbank.  Ed Menashy, strategist at Charles Stanley, said: 'Investors are worried about the intensity of the recession and how it will negatively affect corporate earnings. It is casting a shadow of doubts over valuations.' Adding to the woes was news that the world's second-largest economy Japan had slid into recession. Meanwhile a survey of professional forecasters by the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank the United States, said the U.S. economy entered recession in April and that this will last for 14 months.  The Confederation of British Industry said the country will suffer its sharpest economic contraction in almost two decades next year and the number of people out of work could rise to nearly 3 million by 2010.  Meanwhile, a survey by property website Rightmove showed that asking prices for houses are 7.1 percent below their level a year ago.  Banks took the most points off the index amid more downbeat news, particularly Citigroup's announcement it planned to slash about 50,000 jobs.  HBOS and Lloyds TSB lost 13.8 and 10.2 percent respectively over lingering uncertainty over whether their tie-up will succeed.  HBOS chairman Dennis Stevenson warned on Friday that it could have to be nationalised if its shareholders do not vote for a proposed 5.7 billion pounds takeover by Lloyds TSB .  Standard Chartered fell 7 percent following weekend press reports that it is investigating whether to raise billions of pounds to bolster its capital base, and has asked JP Morgan and Cazenove to consider options for a capital injection.  Dresdner cut its price target for the bank to 1,300 pence, from 2,100 pence.  Barclays was down 3.1 percent as its Middle East capital raising plans came under fire again.  Energy stocks were mixed as crude retreated 0.9 percent.  BG Group , Cairn Energy and Royal Dutch Shell slipped between 1.3 and 4.6 percent.  Miners were also in the doldrums as copper retreated 4 percent. Rio Tinto , Anglo American , Antofagasta , Kazakhmys and Vedanta Resources were 4 to 11.8 percent lower.  BHP Billiton lost 3.65 percent after the company said it has received deferral requests from its customers for up to 5 percent of iron ore output.  HOUSEBUILDERS RALLY ON M&amp;amp;A TALK Taylor Wimpey housebuilder rose 0.6 percent after The Observer said on Sunday that Oaktree and Apax are considering making a full bid or taking a minority stake as part of a restructuring deal. Defensive stock British American Tobacco was 0.8 percent higher as investors stayed cautious.  Interbroker dealer ICAP gained 5.7 percent after the Times reported that chief executive Michael Spencer will report on Tuesday that interdealer brokers are not running out of steam.  Tesco fell 6.6 percent after JP Morgan cut its rating to 'underweight' from 'neutral' and reduced its target price to 290 pence from 340 pence.  (Editing by David Cowell)
