as investor confidence strengthened with the US election campaign coming to an end.  The euro broke through the level of 1.30 dollars for the first time since Thursday, and at 2200 GMT was trading at 1.2975 dollars after 1.2643 late Monday in New York.  The dollar meanwhile gained some ground on the yen, rising to 99.69 yen from 99.13 on Monday.  Analysts were divided on the impact that a victory for Democrat Barack Obama, the front-runner according to most polls, or Republican John McCain would have on the US currency.'We think an Obama victory will eventually prove negative for the dollar because it is likely to lead to more expansive fiscal policy and a more protectionist-minded White House,' commented analysts at Barclays Capital.'But in the short term, an Obama victory, combined with a strong majority in the Senate, is likely to be bullish for the dollar as it will enable Washington to respond more proactively on the management of the financial crisis.'At Commerzbank experts said regardless of the victor 'the fundamental arguments for dollar strength remain intact.''In particular, both candidates have announced an expansionary fiscal policy course. Whether it will be the McCain dollar or the Obama dollar ... this fiscal generosity should bolster the dollar even in the current US recession.' But on Tuesday, currency traders here bought the euro, displaying a rebound in confidence about the future as voting finally got under way.  When confidence fades, investors usually seek out the dollar, seen as a refuge from economic turmoil.  The dollar on Tuesday was in addition weighed down by news that US industrial orders fell 2.5 percent in September from August, a far sharper decline than the 0.8 percent foreseen by analysts.  The euro's performance could be affected later this week if the European Central Bank -- as expected -- on Thursday lowers eurozone interest rates to spur economic momentum at a time of acute financial instability.  The Bank of England is likewise expected to cut British interest rates on Thursday.  In most cases, a reduction in interest rates would make the affected currencies less attractive to investors.  But at Brown Brothers Harriman, analyst Audrey Childe-Freeman noted that the Australian dollar had in fact rallied following a larger than foreseen cut in Australian interest rates.'Given the market's reaction to a larger than expected (Australian) cut, the euro and sterling could encounter a similar reaction ahead of the BOE and ECB meetings Thursday,' she said.Australia's central bank on Thursday slashed its official interest rate by 75 basis points to 5.25 percent on concern that a slowdown in China would hurt exports.  Sara Kline at Economy.com said that rate cuts may have the unusual impact of helping a currency by providing stimulus to growth.'Global currencies are gaining on announced and expected rate cuts, which will help stimulate local economies,' she said.In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.1622 Swiss francs after 1.1743 Mondau.  The pound was at 1.5942 dollars from 1.5813. 
