LONDON - WALL Street opened firmer on Tuesday as voting got underway in a historic US presidential election, with investors hoping a new leader will provide a fresh start out of the financial crisis.   Solid gains in New York gave added impetus to European markets, which moved ahead strongly after a mixed day in Asia.   Americans began voting with front-running Democrat Barack Obama seeking to become the first black president and his Republican rival John McCain hoping for an unprecedented comeback.   Polls opened in the northeastern US state of Vermont at 6.00pm as the White House race neared the finishing line.   In early Wall Street trade, the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 195.30 points (2.10 per cent) to 9,515.13 points.   The rally 'is being driven primarily by the understanding that today is Election Day,' said Mr Patrick O'Hare at Briefing.com.   'It's not a bid, though, rooted in the expectation that one candidate will prevail over the other. Rather, it's a bid rooted in the understanding that there will finally be clarity on the matter,' Mr O'Hare noted.   In late afternoon trade in Europe, London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares was up 2.22 per cent, in Paris the CAC 40 added 2.16 per cent and the Frankfurt DAX rose 2.07 per cent.   In Asia, Tokyo soared more than six percent on Tuesday, boosted by a weaker yen and reports of a possible takeover of struggling electronics maker Sanyo by its bigger rival Panasonic.   Japanese investors were also playing catch-up as the Tokyo market had been closed on Monday for a public holiday.   The gains in Europe came despite negative earnings news from British retailer Marks and Spencer, banking giant Royal Bank of Scotland, German luxury car maker BMW, Swiss temp agency Adecco and Swiss Re, the world's biggest reinsurer.   Dealers said investors were betting that the winner of Tuesday's US vote would take extra steps to tackle a looming recession in the US - the world's largest economy.   'All eyes will on the US presidential election today, even though a win by Obama is widely expected and probably well discounted by financial markets,' said Barclays Capital analyst Rodrigo Guimaraes.   'We think an Obama victory ... is likely to lead to more expansive fiscal policy and a more protectionist-minded White House.   'But in the short-term, an Obama victory, combined with a strong majority in the Senate ... will enable Washington to respond more proactively on the management of the financial crisis,' Mr Guimaraes said.   Central bankers meanwhile continued their efforts to restore stability to world markets and stop the global economy slipping into a long downturn.   The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) slashed its key lending rate by a bigger-than-expected 75 basis points.   The European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England are expected to follow suit on Thursday.   The RBA, which has cut rates by 2.0 percentage points since Sept, said the aggressive reduction was warranted given the economic climate.   'International economic data have continued to point to significant weakness in the major industrial economies, and there have been further signs that China and other parts of the developing world are slowing as well,' said RBA governor Glenn Stevens.   Plunging auto sales in the US and Japan provided fresh evidence of the fallout of the credit crunch, while the world's biggest reinsurer Swiss Re posted a quarterly loss of US$258 million (S$489.4 million) due to the market turmoil.   Analysts said growing worries about the health of the global economy could put the brakes on the recent rally in world share prices.   'We believe that the recovery has gotten ahead of itself,' said Mr Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief strategist at CFC Seymour in Hong Kong.   'We expect another major episode of risk aversion to take hold of markets in the near future, with the potential for commodities and stocks to hit new lows for the year,' he warned.   In commodity markets, oil price sank under US$59 per barrel in London amid deepening concerns over weak energy demand in Europe and the US, dealers said. -- AFP 
