 The volatile Canadian loonie topped 84 cents at various points Monday morning, building on last week's 5.3 per cent gain, as the United States dollar retreated against other currencies.  By mid-morning, the dollar was up a cent at 84.02 cents (U.S.). Even so, the currency still fell 12.2 per cent for the entire month [of October]. Not only was that the largest monthly decline ever &amp;amp; but it was also larger than any yearly decline in the currency, Douglas Porter, deputy chief economist of the Bank of Montreal wrote in a morning note to clients.  The extreme ups and downs are far from a Canadian dollar story, as all currencies are being churned by tremendous volatility as policy-makers around the world struggle to stabilize world financial markets.  Many currency strategists wonder how long  or whether  the commodity-sensitive loonie can sustain its recent gains. Crude oil was down more than $2 a barrel, trading below $66, Monday morning.  With the Canadian and U.S. economies contracting, we expect demand for Canadian resource exports and other commodities to drop, further weakening growth, Carl Weinberg, chief economist of New York-based High Frequency Economics said in a research note Monday. Canadians' confidence has started to crumble, Mr. Weinberg wrote. The credit crunch and declines in the stock market are making them worry about their financial outlook and job security. Mr. Weinberg said he expects that Statistics Canada's unemployment report, to be issued on Friday, will show that the jobless rate rose to 6.2 per cent in October from 6.1 per cent.  He further predicted that the Bank of Canada will cut interest rates again on Dec. 9. This will cheapen the Canadian dollar even more against the greenback. Steve Malyon, a currency strategist with the Bank of Nova Scotia, said the U.S. dollar became overbought in October, and the inevitable consolidation is well under way. The currencies that lost the most ground in October  the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand dollars  have been exploiting this particularly effectively over the last week, Mr. Malyon said in a research note.  With three central banks expected to cut interest rates this week  The Reserve Bank of Australia, the Bank of England and the European Central Bank  we suspect the U.S. dollar will continue to trade defensively for now as investors focus on the potential benefits of policy-maker activism, Mr. Malyon said.
