        QUOTE (algorithmbetting &amp;amp;#064; Jul 15 2008, 12&amp;amp;#58;43 AM)       2 interesting points:  insurance as we all used to know it, is regulated eg car insurance, health insurance, even earthquakes.  but financial insurance only started in last 20 years and regulators clearly didnt understand the risks.    alot of the risk was booked in offshore COMPLETELY unregulated vehicles - i used to audit them - (jersey has just had a visit from the all party Financial markets committee of the govt to try and understand the role jersey played).  the banks kept the liabilities off balance sheet by pricing the cds in their favour.  they used to credit the premium received for writing the insurance to hte p&amp;amp;amp;l each year and not adequately reserve for any potential losses. even the premium - we know now - wasnt enough if they had credited it all to the balance sheet rather than p&amp;amp;amp;l cos the premium was too low for the risk. hence why credit spreads have gone through the roof as its now reflecting the risk/better pricing.  secondly, you shouldnt net the contracts to come up with the net risk position.  cos that way you ignore counterparty risk.  A contracts with B who contracts with C who contracts with D. this is the interdepency which has been created and what the regualtors (and govts) are now so worried about.  any one of the parties goes down and the losses are felt throughout the market.  the cds figures are in the trillions as you can have 10 cds worth 50bn references just 50mn of assets. 1 reference entity fails eg Company A for 50mn, but there could be losses of 50bn if that is the total cds written against the loss. remember the liabilities of cds can be any multiple of referenced assets.  you might think that the net sum = 0 and therefore no risk but remember the income from the premium has been booked and spent as bonuses and dividends.   over the past 10 years who knows how much profit of banks, et al has been booked which wasnt actaully profit. it was premium recognised which should have been saved up to pay future liabilities.  in insurance you reserve based on the historical risk of loss and duration of the contract. new insrance risks they dont recognise profit until the counterparty cna no longer claim - known as prudent accounting&amp;amp;#33; they never did this in banks. they booked the (most of the) profit immediately.  i used to audit a reinsurance company and they did reserve for losses  - probably more because it was their industry norm.  no wonder wall street/london had record profits year after year after year. it also backed the mass of lending we&amp;#039;ve seen over the past 15 years.    algo,  good post. There must be a large element in which funds are hedged, so the enormous numbers (&amp;amp;#036;trillions for Barclays and RBS) are presumably mostly netted off (provided a counterparty to an offsetting trade doesn&amp;#039;t default). But if it was all entirely netted off, then there would no profits, so any idea of how much remains exposed (assuming,  again, no counterparty defaults)?                        
