1. Lehman posting superior returns 2006 and 2007 from  peers. Greater risk taking  ?    2. Appointing a tax attorney Erin Callan as CFO in  Sept 2007   . She as to take exams to take the post.  Does anyone know when A CFO gets no option grants  entitlement? Was she promoted to be used as a  scapegoat?    3. Bear Stearns collapses while Fuld is a  conflicting situation as a Fed  director.    4. In April 2008 Lehman claims does not needs cash  but raises 4 Billion in   preferreds convertible to  share @49.      5. 1 Qtr earnings are whitewashed with reduced  earnings without marking write downs of any kind.  David Einhorn discovers serious   discrepancies  between earnings results and 10Q. No serious attempts  are made to clarify  issue.    6. Lehman issues major losses after mucj denial    and raises 6 Billion in preferred and common share at  $28 despite repeated attempt to allay fear they have  no liquidity issue. We now learn NJ pensioners are  suffering major  losses.    7. The 2nd quarter teleconference happens with no  questions raised by analysts as to how they got rid  of 130 Billion write down. Fuld claims he is  responsible for the decisions and signs the reports.  By the same logic can we assume then   the CFO did  not want to sign the earnings report  ?    8. Moodys puts lehman on ratings watch on CFO  outser. On June 20 Moodys downgrades Lehman, no news  bulletins are  issued.    9. We not learn that the 130 Billion write down    could be a setup as a shell game to avoid taking  losses.    10. A week ago we hear Barclays issues $4Billion for  overseas acquisitions. That would amount to $6    purchase price. Then   again why would Baclays want  to buy them if the asset value is  negative.    11. Todays action : I presume if Barclays is not  interested in buying Lehman,   then one more  desperate attempt is made   opt   for   the Ferengi  alliance to upgrade their peer and burn the shorts. I  suspect all trades above 20.6 that were executed in  the day are rescinded after-hours since the alliance  does not want to be stuck losing money. So this will  make up for positive news and all of Lehmans  problems appear to be resolved. No end to the  treachery.
