I found the same thing and had to figure it out on my own too.  I have a good example that supports the irresponsible bank issues.  about 6 years ago, We bought our house in Colorado,  both having excellent credit we got a 30 fixed FHA backed loan.  which has always been paid on time.. the broker originally got the loan thru Washington mutual,  ( WaMu is heavily invested in the California real estate bubble by the way  where prices of homes were crazy out of whack). within a year WaMu had sold our soild, good paper loan to Wells Fargo so they could use the money they got selling our loan to fund more of these sup prime loans in artificially inflated housing markets like So Cal.  It was just greed plain and simple..  they traded off a good sound investment in our loan for a chance at a higher return risky ARM loan on some inflated property elsewhere. If you happened to notice,  Wells Fargo was one of 4 companies that made a buy out offer on WaMu when they went belly up..... So yeah I think the market is correcting itself... an WaMu deserved what they got!!  My  understanding is this....  SOME banks  made so many sub prime loans that went belly up that they do not have the capital left to make more loans... so until they can get rid of the real estate they have forclosed on and get some physical capital or cash back in their coffers they cannot make new loans... and the insurance companies that sold Principal Mortgage Insurance, sold so many policies on these sub prime, high risk mortgages  (again greed as they sell them for more than a 30 fixed FHA loan for example would bring) that now they don&amp;#039;t have the funds to cover all the PMI claims made against the policies they issued.... So  thats why AIG insurance is going bancrupt!!!!  Not all banks or Insurance companies made these bad loans...  My credit union for example said they never issued any sub prime loans (and they are located in So Cal).  so it is survival of the fittest or smartest or least greedy that is happening...    Yeah I do think there will be job losses and business closures etc but its going to happen to those businesses that were greedy and irresponsible and overextended themselves.
