         CCH1,   I am also of the view (which might possibly have become outdated in recent years, though I don&amp;#039;t see why) that the banking sector has been net buyers of credit protection via CDSs, rather than net sellers as much of the press comment has implied......  ......look at that chart 2.18 on the left,  showing Banks as net purchasers of protection, and hedgies, pension funds and mainly insurers as the net sellers .  Now, there will no doubt be differences at the individual level, but  it does indicate that the CDS potential house of cards will generally claim a different set of victims to those the media are looking at .    Very many thanks for finding and posting the data to confirm my original point. That chart is a particularly useful one, even though it does cover only the period up to 2006 and not since.  However, for those who aren&amp;#039;t bothered to look at the link,  the important figures in it are that in 2006 the aggregate  NET  outstanding exposures to credit default swaps were approximately:   Banks  - had  bought net protection  against defaults totalling over  USD 3 TRILLION   Insurers  - were  short of net protection  against defaults totalling  c. USD 2 TRILLION   Hedge funds  - were  short of net protection  against defaults totalling  c. USD 0.8 TRILLION   Pension funds  - were  short of net protection  against defaults totalling  c. USD 0.5 TRILLION    ...so it will be noted from these figures that when the press say  Barclays and RBS have 2.4trillion in CDS each. Worldwide cds market 60 trillion.  they are ONCE AGAIN talking about gross figures and not the net exposures - thus being very misleading.  Of course the fact that banks in aggregate have bought a net $3 trillion of credit protection (from people who are, I would argue, very much less well-equipped than the banks are to undertake proper evaluation of credit risks!!! NB!) shouldn&amp;#039;t necessarily give them very much comfort .....because they will undoubtedly have used this protection to increase their own  gross  credit exposures (ie lend more to borrowers than they would have deemed prudent to retain)......and in addition they have taken on the risk of CDS swap counterparties deafulting on their obligations.......  .....but it is extremely clear that the people who SHOULD be worried about the CDS market are in fact the insurance companies (and, to a lesser extent, the pension funds). Unlike the hedge funds they won&amp;#039;t simply be &amp;amp;quot;handing back the keys&amp;amp;quot; if it all goes wrong in the real economy!  ee                  
