         Hi WShack,   I must say that I&amp;#039;m quite surprised at your reply, both in it&amp;#039;s inaccuracy and uncharacteristically prickly nature.   You are quite right....I was a bit prickly and as I haven&amp;#039;t spoken to you for a while it was quite uncalled for. Sorry about that. There is no doubt that your questions are valid to some but I&amp;#039;m afraid they&amp;#039;re not valid to me. It depends entirely on ones investment technique and time frame and how returns are measured as to what information is taken  as valuable in ones decision making and evaluation. Your methods seem to be focussed on time frames which are entirely different to mine. If I&amp;#039;m not mistaken you pursue investments that you can move in and out of with the hope of making capital gains that you can roll over into the next move. Most on TMF are attempting this. My method, by contrast, is focussed on the long term and the reinvestment of dividends to enhance my number of shares thus giving me a greater ownership of Lloyds.   Whenever the Lloyds share price is low and falling is always the time when the criticism of my method is greatest. It&amp;#039;s easy to see a share price of around 2.90 and declare that Lloyds is a dog because it was trading for around that price many years ago. And it&amp;#039;s so easy for critics of my method to fling forth their calculations that because the share price is low all my years of accrual have been a waste of time. They are measuring the worth of my holding by calculating that my sum total of wealth is the number of shares I hold multiplied by the share price of the day. But this misses the point entirely. We all know that over the years the share price fluctuates wildly and that over the space of just a few months a reasonably sized holding can be increased or decreased by many thousands of pounds. This is why most people cannot adopt a true long term holding method of investing because they get spooked by the drops in their paper wealth and can&amp;#039;t look ahead to when the share price will have increased again and in so doing will boost their paper returns.  Every year the Barclays Equity/gilt study highlights the fact that money invested in shares offers by far the greatest returns over the long term. That same study, also every year, highlights the fact that it is the reinvested dividends, compounded year on year, that account for turning good returns into huge returns.  In order to get the maximum benefit of a long term method of investing it is necessary to buy as many shares as is possible at as low a price as is possible. This is why if your investment horizon is twenty years or more it is in your own self interest to have a low SP coupled with a high dividend so that for as long as possible you can buy as many shares as you can to enlarge your holding. It stands to reason thereafter that any uplifts in share price will be mirrored across the whole holding accrued over many decades of compounded growth. This is where huge returns can be made. And I mean huge. If, over the course of the next few years, the SP goes up substantially the whole of my decades long investing efforts will be elevated accordingly. If the share price goes nowhere....well I keep accruing more shares with my dividends.   So you see all these questions that analysts, traders and yourself bang on about are all geared to the short term share price which I&amp;#039;m completely ambivalent about. I&amp;#039;m not interested in the short term &amp;#039;noises&amp;#039; of the market because my eyes are focussed way into the distance. If the SP goes up then fine, it enhances my paper wealth. If it stays low it enables me to purchase more shares. Over the long term and providing the company stays solvent, my investments in Lloyds are win-win which is a nice place to be.  I wonder if all the new and occasional posters here who are making a splash just now   will still be around in a few years time. I doubt it somehow. Short termers vanish quickly and even most of those who attempt to invest for the long term fall by the wayside. People are only too quick to criticise  long term methods when the share price is low. But they fail to understand that low share prices enhance the potential for greater future returns.   I know this is all boring to you but that&amp;#039;s what long term investing is all about...to me anyway. If my method could be likened to a tennis match then I see myself after twenty five years of playing still only just starting the third set in a five set match. I&amp;#039;m still hitting the ball......the audience has fallen asleep!    Regards,  Jim                  
