With the team training on a rutted pitch and Luiz Felipe Scolari struggling to volley lamentable crosses by his coaching staff, Chelsea are clearly under threat in Transylvania. Acclimatising to a stadium which has only three stands, Chelseas coach appears unsettled by the surroundings. All that plays neatly into the hands of CFR Cluj, the new kids on the block who replaced the duopoly in Romanian football of Dinamo Bucharest and their city rivals Steaua before beating Roma in their opening Champions League game.  Chelsea arrived here as the team in a hurry; eight games unbeaten since Scolari replaced Avram Grant, leading the Barclays Premier League and top of Group A after their 4-0 destruction of Bordeaux in their opening Champions League game. The Chelsea manager, aware of the pitfalls, warned his players not to underestimate the Romanian champions and divided their time between the training pitch and watching a DVD of Clujs remarkable 2-1 victory in Rome. They have players from Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay, he said. They play in a different style to English teams and they will want to prove to the world that they are a big club. More...    They play in a South American style, but the attention of the world is on Chelsea, not Cluj. My players know that. Chelsea have impressed under Scolari, brushing aside rivals on their travels, yet this is the stiffest test in the story so far. The culture of the club has changed for the better, to such an extent that the players are allowed to indulge in a couple of beers and a late night out if they win (Im not a policeman, added Scolari), but no-one is getting carried away. Cluj represent a formidable challenge; uncharted territory for a team with an eye on the biggest prize of all. The Romanian champions owe much of their success to multi-millionaire owner Arpad Paskany, who funded his ambition to become the first outside Bucharest to win the league since Universitatea Craiova in 1991.To do it, they fielded the first non-Romanian team in the leagues history, taking advantage of strategic agreements with Benfica, Lanus (Argentina) and AJ Abidjan (Ivory Coast) to see off the threat of Steaua and Dinamo. With echoes of Arsene I dont check the passports before I sign the players Wenger, Paskany said: I dont care about a players nationality, just his ability. CFR is a Transylvanian club where nationalities are irrelevant. We have fans in Hungary; fans everywhere, in fact, as our players come from all over the world. The stadium, five minutes from the city centre, will be heaving with 25,000 supporters who have hitched a lift on this remarkable success story. Everyone in Cluj wants towatch this game, easily the biggest in the clubs 91-year history. It will be no surprise if we lose the game because there are no small teams anymore, added Scolari. Seven years ago they were in the third division and now it is fantastic for the club to be in the Champions League. It is a big challenge for them to play Chelsea. I remember Steaua Bucharest, now I need to know about Cluj. Scolari has done his homework, singling out the goalscorer Culio as their surprise weapon and warning his team that they overpowered Roma by shooting on sight. The big advantage to Cluj is that we will play without nerves and pressure, claimed Culio. That will be the key to beating Chelsea and all of their bigname players. We have shown we deserve respect and shown that we are not the worst team in the group after pulling a surprise. We want to carry that on against Chelsea. We know they have some injuries but they have a super squad.  It is also super-sized, with Alex replacing Ricardo Carvalho in the centre of defence, Michael Ballack taking the place of Deco and Salomon Kalou assured of his place following an injury to Joe Cole. Clujs coach Maurizio Trombetta has been lauded for pulling off the unthinkable inside the Olympic Stadium and raising expectations for this evenings clash with Chelsea. We were not there to visit the Vatican or to collect Francesco Tottis autograph, was Trombettas explanation for their opening Champions League tie victory. I can say the same for Chelsea.
