Sunderland legend Charlie Hurley has backed manager Roy Keane to take the club into Europe. Hurley, now 72, is still known as the 'King' on Wearside and was voted the best player of the club's first century by fans who regard him as arguably the best centre-half the world has ever seen. He, like Keane, was born in Cork, and he believes the current manager, with the support of chairman Niall Quinn and his Drumaville consortium, can establish the club in the upper reaches of the Barclays Premier League table. Hurley said: 'I would love to see Sunderland consistently in the top half of the Premier League. 'If Roy ever gets them regularly in the top half, he will get them into Europe eventually, and that would be fantastic. Those fans up there deserve that.' Hurley revealed he and Keane, both former Republic of Ireland internationals, correspond regularly about the club's fortunes, and the older man is convinced the 37-year-old has what it takes to bring lasting success to the Stadium of Light. He said: 'Roy Keane has done a fantastic job. Niall Quinn and the consortium have backed him to the hilt, and I think they have a pool of people there who are going to take Sunderland to new heights. More...     'I really do think they have a good future. I was at the Arsenal game on Saturday and I thought Sunderland's performance was excellent. 'I'm not saying it was quite as classy, maybe, as Arsenal's, but they are getting there and the way they fought for that point was very good. 'It was a typical Keane performance. He manages like he played football. He won't stand for any crap from those players. He will insist on discipline and he will only have players who don't know the words, 'I'm tired' and who will give 100 per cent. Scroll down for moreNo nonsense: Black Cats boss Keane does things his own way'Roy is highly disciplined as a manager, and that's the one thing you have got to be. Whether it's the best player or the worst player, he will fine them or drop them if they get out of line, and he has done that. 'That's what I like about him. He is strong in discipline and he is very, very good for Sunderland Football Club.' There were suggestions Quinn had taken a gamble when he appointed Keane to his first job in management in August 2006, although he has answered all the questions which have come his way so far by leading the club back into the Premier League and keeping them there. But for Hurley, there was never any risk. He said: 'I am a Cork man as well, so I am biased. I said to myself, 'I was good for them, he's got to be good for them'. 'As a player, he was one of the hardest and best players around - you would have had him in your team every week. 'He had guts, he had a very good football brain and he was very, very determined. He didn't know what losing was all about, and I had that same attitude. 'My dad used to say, 'Did you win or did you win?', and I learned what he meant. You can win badly or you can be lucky, but it's all about winning.' Hurley was speaking as a biography detailing his life and career was launched. Now living in Hertfordshire, he spent 12 years at Roker Park between 1957 and 1969, and is still regarded fondly by Sunderland fans who were not even born when he left the club to join Bolton. He said: 'I was up there at the weekend and I was walking along the sea front. There were two kids and their dad walking along, and they all said at once, 'Hi Charlie'. The kids couldn't have been 15 years old. 'It's amazing. It was their granddads who made me.' 
