 Rangers manager Walter Smith has defended the state of Scottish football and insists the reaction to Celtic's defeat to Manchester United was over the top.Celtic suffered a 3-0 reverse in their Champions League clash at Old Trafford midweek, a result which was described as 'embarrassing' and 'men against boys' by Blackburn boss Paul Ince.But Smith does not believe the match provided a fair reflection of the game north of the border.And he pointed out that most other teams outside the top four in the Barclays Premier League also struggle against Sir Alex Ferguson's men. He said: 'There is a big gulf between Manchester United and a lot of teams in the Premiership - people forget that. 'If you look at Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea, they've made themselves fixtures at the top of that league. 'It was interesting to hear an English manager commenting on Celtic's performance but a lot of the English teams suffer the same fate when they play Manchester United, some of them even worse and they are Premiership teams. They forget that. 'The game in Scotland is as good as it can be taking into account that football is a financially-based game and has been for the last 10 or 15 years since the introduction of huge sums of television money in England. 'Nobody can argue with that. 'Scottish teams do the best they can. Celtic acquitted themselves well in the Champions League last year and I felt we acquitted ourselves well.' Celtic have qualified for the last 16 of the Champions League for the last two seasons, while Rangers reached the UEFA Cup final last year - without the finances available to English clubs. Smith added: 'They have a level of finance that's greater than the Scottish clubs, even teams just going into the Premiership for the first time. 'But football throughout Europe is like that as well. You don't see many teams from small countries getting into the latter stages of the Champions League. 'We managed to get to the UEFA Cup final last year so Scottish teams have proved they can stand up and play and have a level of success. 'It's very difficult for us to do so every year but it doesn't stop us from competing and I think we compete very well. 'There has been an exaggeration about the effects of Celtic's defeat at Old Trafford. 'They've still to play them at home and they beat Manchester United there the last time and they have beat most of the teams they have played there. 'Scottish football is not in a desperately poor situation just because Celtic got beat 3-0 by a team who can probably beat any team in Europe 3-0.' Meanwhile, Rangers travel to Hamilton in the Clydesdale Bank Premier League on Saturday without Barry Ferguson.The Ibrox skipper featured in a reserve match on Tuesday - his first taste of action in five months after undergoing ankle surgery - but Smith will not rush his return to the top team. He said: 'It's important for us to get all our good players back. He's been a big factor in our team so we look forward to him coming back. 'But we've got a squad of players there and it's not necessary to rush him back, we will make sure he's right this time. 'His injury has totally cleared up and he has no problem with that. It's just a case of making sure he's ready fitness-wise when he comes back. 'That will maybe be in another 10 days or so if we can fit in a couple of games. 'He's a terrific player, he has great enthusiasm for the game. He wants to play and he wants to win. He will bring a lot to us when he comes back.' Rangers suffered a shock defeat to St Mirren in their last outing and Smith is determined to avoid a repeat against SPL new-boys Hamilton. He said: 'We have to make sure we get back on the rails tomorrow but it will be a tough one for us. 'When a team gets promotion they are always highly-motivated in their games against Rangers and Celtic, especially in the home matches. 'They've already been away to Celtic Park but I think it will be more of a cup tie atmosphere tomorrow than a normal league game. 'After losing to St Mirren, we have to make sure we are ready for this one.'
