As the housing market stumbled, commercial real estate still had legs to stand on.But those legs started buckling this year, pounded by the weakening economy and tightening credit.Last week, one high-profile set gave in. General Growth Properties, (GGP) the giant mall REIT, plunged 50% to all-time lows as investors worried it wouldn't make payments on its $27 billion debt.It's not alone. Aggressive commercial buyers who closed on highly leveraged deals in the boom years through the 2007 market peak have also started getting caught as debt payments came due.Tenants are failing or scaling back; property values are falling. Refinancing is a challenge, especially now that spreads for bonds backed by commercial real estate are wider than ever - making for onerous interest rates and terms. So owners are having trouble servicing debt.Distressed sales in office, multi-unit apartment and retail sectors are rising at alarming rates, according to Real Capital Analytics.Though less than 1% of all U.S. fixed-rate commercial mortgages are delinquent, that is rising. Meanwhile, commercial construction loan delinquencies hit 4.1% in the second quarter vs. 1.3% a year earlier, says Foresight Analytics. 'Everybody is waiting for the other shoe to drop,' said Manus Clancy, managing director of Trepp LLC, a New York-based firm that tracks the commercial real estate markets. He blames 'pro-forma' underwriting practices for many of today's problems. 'Instead of lending on leases in place, people would lend on future rollover and future repositioning, and that has led to execution risks,' he said. For example, the owners of the 1,200-unit Riverton apartment complex in upper Manhattan had counted on converting deregulated apartments to market-rate rentals at a faster pace. But when that didn't pan out, they had trouble servicing their debt and were recently in danger of defaulting on their $225 million mortgage.Trepp has uncovered 1,385 of these thorny commercial loans, totaling some $45 billion. The biggest portion is office properties (31%), followed by retail (25%).General Growth needs $1.7 billion in the next six months to service its debt, much of it highly leveraged buys made during the boom. The company might be forced to put itself up for sale.Finding loans to buy or develop a property is just as tough as refinancing one. Wide bond spreads mean that the source of funding that commercial real estate firms have used for the last decade - investment banks - 'are more or less off the table,' Clancy says. Sales volume in commercial real estate is down over 70% from last year, RCA says. A growing number of properties changing hands are distressed, if not in default.Sales prices of commercial real estate, according to some estimates, are off 12% from their peak. 'The first thing you have to ask is 'was the peak too high? Was that a bubble out there?,' ' said Ray Torto, global chief economist for CB Richard Ellis. 'Everybody is trying to figure out, 'where is the equilibrium price?' ' Much will depend on how government rescue efforts work to open lending spigots and how the economy fares, he says.About 17% of recent office market sales involved sellers in financial distress, RCA said. Leasing activity, which usually lags sales, had been doing better but lately that has been weakening, too. 'If you think about everything that has happened in the last month - with the financial services sector, insurance and the rest of the economy - the business has a lot of downside,' said William Marks, a real estate analyst with JMP Securities. 'Companies wait until there is absolutely no ability to grow the business and then they put their leasing plans on hold, and that is what we are seeing now,' he added. Manhattan had been a bright spot, but is starting to feel the effects of Wall Street's pain.Office vacancy rates in Manhattan are now 6% to 7% but are expected to rise sharply as financial firms continue to slash staff.More blood is expected to spill from bankrupt Lehman Bros. and insurance giant AIG, which was bailed out by the Federal Reserve and is looking to sell off property.The vacancy rate in the Big Apple rose to 18% in the early 1990s during the savings &amp;amp; loan crisis.Office vacancies nationwide will hit 14.4% by second-quarter 2009 vs. 12.9% in mid-2008, the National Association of Realtors expects.Though debt markets have effectively seized up, some financed transactions are getting done 'now and then,' says Frank Liantonio, executive director of capital markets for Cushman &amp;amp; Wakefield.They usually involve deals in which existing debt was already in place or trophy assets in markets less affected by economic woes.Some real estate watchers say the littered landscape will present great opportunities. But potential buyers are timid. 'A lot of capital wants to get into real estate - pension funds, foundations, investment managers around the globe,' said Torto. 'But they do not want to pay the wrong price.' If desperate sellers dump properties at fire-sale prices, buyers will step up, he says. 'I would expect pricing is going to soften further and rents are going to go down,' said Liantonio. 'But where that will be is very difficult to predict until we have a lot of this uncertainty out of the way.'
