The news agency quotes an unnamed source who said that the cuts could come from both firms (BarCap already had 4,000 staff in the US prior to the Lehman deal last month. The downsizing is thought likely to be completed by the end of the year.One former Lehman staffer (now at Barclays Capital) told Here Is The City: 'We all knew that this was coming. We're over worrying now. The events of the last month has anestisized us. Whatever will be, will be'.In the meantime, The New York Post reports that the $2.5bn compensation package set-aside for the 10,000 Lehman staff to cover bonuses and severance is likely to come under fire by the firm's creditors. The Financial Times reports that Morgan Stanley has been forced to renegotiate the terms of the planned $9bn capital injection by Japan's Mitsubishi UFG. According to the newspaper, Mitsubishi will still make the investment in return for a 21% stake in the firm, but the investment will now all come in the form of preference shares and at a significantly lower price than originally negotiated.Reuters reports that Merrill Lynch has cut its price targets on several US asset managers, citing valuation and lower assets under management. In a note to clients last week, analyst Cynthia Mayer said: 'With no firm bottom in sight and record volatility, there's very little visibility to earnings at this point. Long term (however), we continue to see asset managers as a good business, with higher margins and less balance sheet risk than many other financials'.Finally, The New York Post reports that, according to a recent report from Commerzbank, the hedge fund industry may lose as much as $1.93 trillion in assets by the end of the year due to market declines and investor withdrawals. And Financial News reports that some of the world's 'most prominent' hedge funds, including SAC Capital, Lone Pine and Tiger Global, are looking at double-digit losses so far this year.Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend.
