While anecdotal evidence suggests some small-business owners have hit barriers in their search for funds, industry experts say that's the result of an economy in or near a recession, rather than the effect of a severe credit crisis.   You could argue that it doesn't matter what larger economic machinations are behind a bank's resounding denial of a business owner's request for money, but in volatile economic times like these it helps to keep things in perspective. Credit crunch, or no?'There are over 26 million small businesses. To say this group is affected this way or that way is incredibly difficult.' " Brian Headd, Small Business Administration The portion of small-business owners who said credit was harder to get was 'up a point or two' in September, but there was 'no signal in the data that things suddenly got worse,' according to William Dunkelberg, chief economist with the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group representing small firms. NFIB surveys small-business owners every month. NFIB won't release its official September figures on credit availability until Monday, but Dunkelberg, who has analyzed the September data, said they show 'just the normal progression we see at the end of an expansion. ... Credit is always harder to get then.' That's in part because as the economy slows, firms' profit picture worsens, making lenders less likely to approve requests. Also, there's no doubt lenders have tightened their underwriting standards over the past year in the wake of the subprime meltdown. But it's not clear that small firms have been particularly struck by the worsening credit freeze in September. Ten percent of small firms in August reported they had a difficult time securing credit, compared with 3% in 2003, according to NFIB. 'That may sound like a horrible thing but it's really normal ... as [an economic] expansion peters out,' Dunkelberg said. 'Back in the early 1980s, 28% said it was harder to get credit.' The NFIB survey also asks business owners what's the largest problem facing their business. In the August survey, 2% of firms said access to credit, compared with 3% in the July survey; that figure hit 35% in the early 1980s, according to Dunkelberg. Of course, the economic turmoil in mid- to late September -- when among other events, Washington Mutual ceased to exist, the federal government bailed out Freddie Mac (FRE:FRENews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) , Fannie Mae (FNM:FNMNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) and insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG:AIGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) , and the stock market saw a stomach-churning drop after an initial failed financial-rescue plan -- simply may have not hit small firms yet. In addition, it's hard to generalize, as small businesses come in all shapes and a lot of sizes. 'There are over 26 million small businesses. To say this group is affected this way or that way is incredibly difficult,' said Brian Headd, an economist with the Small Business Administration's Office of Advocacy in Washington. Hiring? A mixed picture Different surveys reveal mixed data regarding hiring among small firms, due in part to the wide variety of firm sizes and types surveyed. In September, average employment at small firms dropped by 0.34 workers on a seasonally adjusted basis, following a 0.04 decline in August, according to the NFIB's September survey of about 740 small firms (NFIB's employment data was released Friday), many of which but not all with five or fewer workers. Small firms have reported a small net decline in employment every month since January, with the exception of a 0.01 net increase in April, according to NFIB monthly surveys. But a separate monthly survey by ADP shows small firms increasing payrolls by 28,000 in September, slightly higher than the 17,000 gain in August. (That survey counts the period through Sept. 12, so would miss layoffs later in the month.) The ADP survey counts small businesses as those with 50 or fewer workers. One effect of the economic slowdown and perhaps a direct result of the housing-market downturn in some cases: More small businesses may be defaulting on loans. SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Amid a tightening credit crunch, banks' refusal to lend to each other is hampering the operations of companies in an array of industries, but the degree to which the recent credit crisis is crimping small U.S. firms is a matter of some debate.
