The events of the past few weeks have been among the most dramatic in the history of Wall Street and the most damaging to investors, particularly those with exposure to the hardest hit U.S. financial giants. To recap briefly, the biggest banking failure in American history occurred late last month with the collapse of the savings and loan institution Washington Mutual (WM/NYSE). Another hapless holder of sub-prime mortgages is Wachovia Bank (WB/NYSE), which this week agreed to be acquired at a fire-sale price by Citigroup Inc. (C/NYSE). Earlier, insurance giant American International Group (AIG/NYSE) essentially became the property of U.S. taxpayers. Other victims of the current crisis include investment bank Lehman Brothers, which went belly up in early September, Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. Inc., which agreed to be taken over by Bank of America, and mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are now under U.S. government control. Undoubtedly, other overleveraged financial services firms remain vulnerable in the wake of the failure on Sept. 29 of the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the mother-of-all financial bailouts proposed by the George W. Bush administration. Thus far, the financial maelstrom has resulted in trillions of dollars in losses worldwide, both to stockholders and to investors in mutual funds. Among the affected funds are ones that are held by Canadian investors. To illustrate some of the impact of the credit crisis on funds available in Canada, we screened the holdings of the funds in our retail universe to see which of them recently held the biggest percentage stakes in the three latest high-profile corporate casualties: AIG, Washington Mutual and Wachovia. The following tables show the top five distinct funds with the largest exposure to these three stocks, the assets of the funds and the date of their most recent reported holdings. American International Group Year-to-date Return: -95% AIG's unhedged exposure to credit default swaps and investments in asset-backed securities led to its demise. The massive losses arising from these risky ventures destroyed its creditworthiness, prompting the U.S. government on Sept. 16 to effectively nationalize what until recently was the largest insurance company in the world. Specifically, AIG received a commitment for a US$85-billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In turn, the U.S. government will get a nearly 80% equity stake through convertible preferred shares. The transaction is expected to dilute the equity of existing shareholders on a massive scale. Fund Name Share %of Fund FundAssets(M$) HoldingsDate AIC American Advantage 6.89 52.2 June 30 Acker Finley Select US Value 50 5.31 2,696.8 July 31 AIC Global Insurance 5.13 0.6 June 30 AIC Global Advantage 4.95 44.6 June 30 AIC Advantage 4.31 713.4 June 30 Washington Mutual Inc. Year-to-date Return: -99% Before U.S. housing prices collapsed, Washington Mutual (WaMu) was involved in almost every facet of the mortgage lending business: subprime, negative amortization loans, Alt-A, jumbo, and traditional long-term loans. However, a deteriorating housing market quickly showed the weakness of the firm's lower-quality loans and exposed WaMu's loose underwriting standards. After months of struggling with mortgage losses, the bank was declared insolvent by its regulator on Sept. 25, making it the largest bank failure in U.S. history. WaMu was then seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.(FDIC), which immediately began to auction pieces of the company to buyers like JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co.(JPM/NYSE). Fund Name Share %of Fund FundAssets(M$) HoldingsDate Brandes US Equity 1.92 63.4 July 31 Brandes Global Equity 1.73 2,696.8 July 31 Scotia US Value 1.27 21.0 July 31 Brandes Global Balanced 1.03 103.2 July 31 Counsel Select America 0.61 5.4 June 30 Wachovia Corp. Year-to-date Return: -95% Death by way of acquisition is perhaps the best way to describe what happened to Wachovia Corp. In November 2006, the super-regional bank purchased California-based Golden West Financial for $24 billion in order to benefit from the thriving West Coast mortgage-lending industry. Unfortunately, Wachovia's timing could not have been worse. Shortly after the deal was completed, the California housing market imploded. The bank was stuck with a $121-billion portfolio of adjustable-rate mortgages, which turned out to be bad loans as borrowers were unable to make payments. Despite raising almost $14 billion in new capital and cutting its dividend, confidence in Wachovia waned and shareholders scrambled for the exits. On Monday, it was announced that Citigroup will purchase all its banking assets, deposits, and debt for $2.16 billion, effectively reducing the company to a shell of its former self. Fund Name Share %of Fund FundAssets(M$) HoldingsDate AGF US Value Class 4.25 30.0 June 30 imaxx US Equity Value 2.89 5.7 July 31 Brandes US Equity 2.16 63.4 July 31 AGF Global Financial Services Class 1.92 35.4 June 30 Brandes Global Equity 1.61 2,696.8 July 31 
