(RTTNews) - Consumer finance company GMAC LLC, partly owned by automobile giant General Motor Corp. (GM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating), Monday said GMAC Financial Services has implemented stricter loan purchasing policies for its consumer auto financing division, reflecting the continuing instability in the credit markets. GMAC Financial intends to maintain the amendments until the markets stabilize and funds become more accessible.As part of the revised lending policy, Detroit, Michigan-based GMAC Financial has imposed limitations for purchases to contracts with a credit score of 700 or more. The company has implemented more stringent guidelines for contracts with higher advance rates and longer terms.In early October, the company increased the rate it charges to dealers for providing non-incentivized consumer auto financing by 75 basis points. GMAC, however, plans to leave the existing pricing and underwriting policies at its wholesale auto finance business unchanged.Cerberus Capital Management LP is currently holding 51% stake in GMAC, while General Motors holds the remaining 49%. For the second quarter, GMAC reported a net loss of $2.5 billion compared to net income of $293 million in the prior-year quarter. GMAC's auto financing unit is suffering from the falling truck sales at General Motors, impairment of vehicle operating lease assets and lower used vehicle prices.The company's mortgage business, Residential Capital LLC incurred a loss of about $1.9 billion for the second quarter on home foreclosures and is on the verge of bankruptcy. In September, Residential Capital revealed plans to close 200 of its retail mortgage offices and eliminate about 5 thousand jobs. The company expects majority of the restructuring charges to reflect in the third quarter financial results.Last week, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's placed General Motors on credit watch negative and Barclays Capital lowered its price target after the struggling automaker's stock plunged to a multi-decade low and lost 50% of its value in multiple sessions. Certain market watchers are of the view that GMAC's best chance of surviving the financial crisis would be to find its way into the U.S. government's $700 billion bailout package.Market analysts predict that the credit crisis would contribute to an already ailing U.S. auto market, as consumers struggle to obtain auto-loans. They warned that there could be as many as 2.2 million fewer sales in 2008 if credit remains frozen and consumers are unable to purchase vehicles. J.D. Power and Associates warned that the auto industry could 'outright collapse' in 2009.Major U.S. automakers reported sharply lower U.S. sales for September as the weakening economy, tight credit conditions and cautious consumer response weighed heavily on the sector. General Motors, Ford Motor Co. (F   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) and Toyota Motor Corp. (TM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) reported 15.8%, 34.6% and 32.3% drop in September U.S. sales, respectively.GM closed Monday's trading at $6.51, up $1.62 or 33.13%, on a volume of about 61.76 million shares. The stock has been moving in the wide range of $4.00-$43.20 for the past one year, with a three-month average volume of about 27.86 million shares.For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights ReservedFor full details on General Motors Corp (GM) click here. General Motors Corp (GM) has Short Term PowerRatings of 5. Details on General Motors Corp (GM) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
