Lawmakers and federal regulators have been searching since spring for ways to calm panicked financial markets. As they have, they might have been re-creating some of the problems that caused the crisis in the first place.For example, the government has engineered a series of buyouts and bailouts of financial institutions that were judged to be too big and too interconnected to fail.But doing so has ushered in a wave of consolidation in an industry that will now consist of a few giants that also are too big and too interconnected to fail.And those giants might wield so much political clout that they could roll back new regulations meant to keep the next meltdown from happening. 'One of the negative aspects of these big firms is they can exert heavy political influence,' Willard Witte, director of Indiana University's Center for Econometric Model research, said Monday. 'There's a real problem ensuring sufficient regulation on an ongoing basis.' Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh, a Democrat who sits on the Banking Committee, said Tuesday that 'a glaring weakness' of the bailout legislation hashed out so far was it didn't contain measures to prevent a similar debacle in the future.Bayh said he feared the industry's newly enlarged behemoths would work to stifle updated regulation even before it is enacted. Three of the big firms Bayh and Witte were referring to are JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co., Citigroup and Bank of America.In March, federal regulators underwrote the sale of failing investment bank Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, which last week also absorbed Washington Mutual Inc. after federal regulators seized that firm's assets and brokered its sale.On Sept. 14, Bank of America announced it would buy Merrill Lynch, the iconic investment bank that had been deteriorating for a year.And Sunday, federal regulators took on some of Wachovia Corp.'s losses and brokered its sale to Citigroup.That move was preceded by the federal seizure of mortgage-finance institutions Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on Sept. 7.And on Sept. 16, the government made an emergency loan of $85 billion in exchange for an 80 percent stake in insurance giant American International Group Inc.The government played a leading role - and pumped billions of taxpayer dollars - into every one of those deals except the Bank of America takeover of Merrill Lynch. It did so on the rationale that the institutions' failure would be worse for taxpayers than the cost of propping them up.In other words, they were deemed too big to fail.But the wave of consolidation left Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup in control of 31 percent of all U.S. deposits. 'We're getting more and more to where we can't let the big guys fail,' said Rep. Mark Souder, R-3rd, who voted for Monday's bailout package.Bank of America and JPMorgan each now have more than 10 percent of U.S. deposits. The federal government had capped that amount at 10 percent to keep big banks from getting too dominant, but in the face of this year's financial emergency, federal regulators stopped enforcing the cap, the Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday.Citigroup has just less than 10 percent of U.S. deposits.Star Financial Bank, a local player in the industry, is dwarfed by the big three. Because of conservative investment and lending policies, it has avoided the troubles of its larger counterparts.On Tuesday, a spokeswoman said it was important that the retail market be kept competitive despite the consolidation. 'Healthy competition always benefits the consumer and the business, so anything that inhibits that is not favorable in our eyes,' said Trois Hart, a senior vice president.Bayh said the Justice Department and other arms of the executive branch already have powers to keep the retail banking sector competitive, but he faulted the Bush administration for not using that authority.And Witte, the Indiana University economist, said that if the giants try to squeeze too much out of their customers, new players will enter the market to take advantage of the greater profit.Ultimately, Bayh said, it's the interconnectedness of the financial institutions along with their size that made it imperative for government to keep them afloat.He used the example of Lehman Brothers, the investment bank the government did allow to fail. The company filed for bankruptcy Sept. 15. 'Lehman Brothers itself was not too big to fail,' Bayh said. 'But what really brought us to this moment was that one of the money market funds owned a lot of their paper, that broke the buck in the reserve money market fund, which started the stampede in the money market and the short-term credit markets, which businesses have to have access to run their day-to-day affairs, and that's what brought us to this moment the dominoes start falling.' Bayh was referring to a money market fund that lost heavily in the failure of Lehman. In 'breaking the buck,' share prices fell below $1, meaning what was thought to be a safe investment was losing money. It was just the third time in history that a money market fund broke the buck.Souder explained that small institutions do business with big ones. For example, AIG had investments with - and sold insurance to - a host of local firms. 'Bank of America told me I would have lost every bank in my district,' if AIG had been allowed to fail, Souder said.Souder was at pains Tuesday to explain his vote for the unpopular bailout a day earlier. 'The shareholders are being wiped out; this is just not understood,' he said of the firms into which government funds are being plowed into.Experts and political leaders seem to agree that the real problem with the newly enormous financial institutions is that they're likely to use their power to fight effective regulation. 'Once the crisis is past, all the special interests and their lobbyists will descend on any effort to prevent a recurrence of this type of behavior, and gridlock will set in and reform will never happen,' Bayh said, explaining that was why he wanted regulations built into any bailout. A passer-by checks out the NASDAQ Marketsite studio market wall Tuesday in New York's Times Square.
