NEW YORK  A battle broke out Friday for control of Wachovia, as Wells Fargo agreed to pay $15.1 billion for the struggling bank, while Citigroup and federal regulators insisted that Citis earlier and lower-priced takeover offer go forward.The surprise announcement that Wachovia Corp. agreed to be acquired by San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co. in the all-stock deal  without government assistance  upended what had appeared to be a carefully examined arrangement and caught regulators off guard.Only four days earlier, Citigroup Inc. agreed to pay $2.1 billion for Wachovias banking operations in a deal that would have the help of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.The head of the FDIC said the agency is standing behind the Citigroup agreement, but that it is reviewing all proposals and will work with the banks regulators to pursue a resolution that serves the public interest. Citigroup, which demanded that Wachovia call off its deal with Wells Fargo, said its agreement with Wachovia provides that the bank will not enter into any transaction with any party other than Citi or negotiate with anyone else.Barring legal action, the future of Wachovia will be determined by the banks shareholders and regulators, which both have to approve a final deal.It was clear which they preferred Friday, as Wachovia shares climbed 61 percent.The FDIC is talking out of both sides of its mouth, said Roger Cominsky, partner in law firm Hiscock &amp;amp; Barclays financial institutions and lending practice.The agency says it stands behind the deal with Citigroup because it hasnt been nixed yet, he said. But at the same time, they are saying they are reviewing all proposals. By law, he said the FDIC is required to find the least-costly resolution for taxpayers. The Wells Fargo deal would not rely on any assistance from the government.Wachovia shares rose $2.38, or 61 percent, to $6.29 in afternoon trading. Wells shares slipped 4 cents to $35.12, and Citigroup shares dropped $4.59, or 20 percent, to $17.91. Wachovia Corp. agreed Friday to be bought by Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co.
