Publication:  New Orleans CityBusinessThe collapse of investment bank Lehman Bros. and Bank of America's takeover of its competitor, Merrill Lynch, have sent shock waves through the nation's financial sector. As a result, blue chip stocks took their biggest tumble since the 9/11 terrorist attacks.With the failure of Bear Stearnsin March, Wall Street is down to two major investment firms -- Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson helped engineer Bear Stearns sale to JPMorgan Chase but chose not to step in to help save Lehman Bros. And he's all but ruled out a government safety net similar to the one set up struggling mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.But after the dust settles on Wall Street, what does mean for Joe Investor in New Orleans? What effect, if any, will it have on the city's recovery?Let's dissect recent events to see what the future could hold.Why are major investment banks failing?The downfall of these old line investment firms is rooted in real estate values and risky mortgage lending. Often the backbone of investment portfolios, real estate has proven susceptible as property values are plummeting in conjunction with an increase in loan defaults.Growing foreclosure rates have been tied to bad subprime loans, most written with little to no regard for the creditworthy status of the lender. For banks (11 have failed so far this year) and investors that weighed their portfolio heavily in this risky lending, the chickens are coming home to roost.What does this mean if I deal with a Merrill Lynch or Lehman Bros. broker?Who's your broker doesn't matter as much as how you've allocated your investments. Bank of America's buyout means Merrill Lynch customers will notice little more than a change in letterhead. Even Lehman customers can continue buying and selling. But if your portfolio is weighed heavily in real estate hedge funds with either of the troubled firms, you'll likely take a hit.Lehman Bros. closed at 21 cents a share, down 97 percent for the year. Merrill Lynch shares stayed relatively stable, down roughly $4 from its $21 opening.The Dow Jones finished down more 500 points for the day in the final hour of trading, with investors fleeing the financial sector. The index remained in the neighborhood of 11,000 ahead of the closing bell.Since investment banks are reeling, does that mean my personal and business banking accounts are at risk?No, because deposits at commercial banks are federally insured. Investment banks are not as strictly regulated, although that is likely to change in the near future, Paulson said.The 11 banks that have failed this year paid the price for writing too many questionable mortgages. Most were in markets where real estate speculation ran rampant. Banks in the New Orleans area have very limited subprime loan exposure, and real estate investment since Katrina has been conservative.AIG is an insurance company. How did it get caught up in this investment bank mess, and what does it mean if I have an AIG policy?Again, it goes back to problem real estate investment. AIG insured funds fraught with mortgage risk, and they've been forced to pay on policies for poor investment. As a result, their liquidity has been soaked dry.AIG brass thought the Federal Reserve would come to the rescue, as it had for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and asked for a $40 billion bridge loan. When it became apparent that would not work out, the company began seeking private help. The company was given permission to access $20 billion from its subsidiary assets, but it's likely just a stopgap measure before AIG goes through a complete fire sale.AIG stock plummeted to $5.24 today -- down more than 90 percent from a year ago -- indicating investors are not confident AIG can be revived.Although the exact future of AIG is unknown, consumers should be OK in the end. Each state provides a guaranty fund on life insurance policies. In Louisiana, policies are insured up to $100,000. Those holding more than that value could face out of pocket costs for moving the policy to the state's guaranty association.Similar guaranty arrangements are in place for homeowner and auto insurance policies.Since real estate investment seems so precarious, what does that mean for New Orleans' recovery?There have been tax incentives galore for development in New Orleans since Katrina, but the state of the national real estate market (along with the state of flood protection) has made some investors gun shy about spending money in New Orleans. For instance, the number of proposed construction projects and the number actually under construction indicates some hesitancy to sink money into the city.But compared to some markets where inflated property values are crashing and 'For Sale' signs are spreading like a bad rash, New Orleans is a relatively healthy market. Ashton Ryan, president and CEO of First Bank and Trust, said the Wall Street woes may trigger more interest in the city.'You're going to get real value, not fake value,' Ryan said. 'People are looking for real value.'Ryan also said the ability of New Orleans to weather near misses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike also bode well for real estate investment.But until we see more of the projected cranes on the skyline, it is hard not to think investors will be bearish on the Crescent City until the national financial sector is stabilized.Are Lehman and AIG the last victims?Most analysts say no. They point to the 'bad paper' still out there on real estate that won't hold its value and lenders who were issued smoke-and-mirror mortgages.The message Secretary Paulson sent today was that there are consequences for engaging in this type of risk. And to borrow from Sen. John McCain on the campaign trail today, they range from Main Street to Wall Street.
