Several analysts think Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co.s proposed $15.1 billion purchase of Wachovia Corp. represents a rebound of the financial-services sector.And it should be a better deal for Charlotte, they say. The bottom was reached with the Citi deal, says N.C. State economist Mike Walden. And now Wells Fargo is looking at the financial-services sector in a positive way. This deal may represent a turning point in the industry. Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) has agreed to buy Wachovia for $7 per share. Thats much higher than Citigroup Inc.s offer to buy the Charlotte-based companys banking assets for $1 per share. The Citi (NYSE:C) deal required assistance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. while Wells Fargos deal does not. This mornings announcement indicates that there are still buyers, even in this environment, for attractive franchises like Wachovia, wrote Robet Patten, a bank analyst at Morgan Keegan &amp;amp; Co. Inc. in a research note Friday. Overall this is good for the bank M&amp;amp;A environment especially for banks with attractive banking footprints. Wells Fargos footprint is mostly west of the Mississippi River, and Wachovia (NYSE:WB) has a larger East Coast presence. You are putting together two units that are better suited, Walden says. It looks like this marriage is better than the Citi deal. Walden expects there will be fewer job cuts with the Wells Fargo deal than with the Citi deal. A statement from Wells Fargo says the combined companies will have a strong presence in Charlotte, which will be the headquarters for its East Coast retail and commercial and corporate banking business. I would think peoples faces will be much brightened today, Walden says. UNC Charlotte professor of finance Tony Plath says the Wells combination is a better deal for everybody, including employees at Wachovia. Its 100 percent better, he says. Because San Francisco-based Wells has so few operations on the East Coast, Plath expects the company to keep much of Wachovias infrastructure there. The manner in which this is structured, where youve got almost a dual headquarters, is good from an infrastructure standpoint for Charlotte, he says. Jason Goldberg, a Barclays Capital bank analyst, also sees benefits to Wells. Bottom line, our initial take is this is an attractive transaction for Wells Fargo as it extends its banking franchise into the East Coast, adding new markets to leverage its cross-sell prowess.
