(RTTNews) - General Motors Corp. (GM:  News ), who saw its stock plunge to a multi-decade low, is reportedly engaged in discussions related to merger or acquisition of Chrysler LLC by GM.The reports noted that the talks between GM. and Chrysler owner Cerberus Capital Management have been going on for a month but information's about the deal vary from a merger to an acquisition of Chrysler by GM.According to the Wall Street Journal, Cerberus, the private equity firm that owns 80.1% of Chrysler and 51% of GMAC Financial Services, proposed a swap in which GM would acquire Chrysler's automotive operations.The New York Times stated that the chance of a merger is 50-50 and would take weeks to finalize. The report added that Cerberus is also holding talks with automakers including Nissan Motor Co. and Renault SA.Both automakers are struggling with a plunge in U.S. sales to 15-year low as credit crisis and inflation from surging oil and commodities prices have seriously hurt consumer confidence.On Friday, Barclays Capital lowered price target on GM shares to $4 from $11, while on Thursday the automaker was placed on credit watch negative by Standard &amp;amp; Poor's.Jeff Schuster, executive director of automotive forecasting for J.D. Power and Associates, warned that the global automotive industry will clearly experience a 'slowdown' in 2008 and the global market may face an 'outright collapse' in 2009.Reflecting this prediction, Barclay's widened its 2008 loss per share estimate for GM to $15.87 from $15.68, and its 2009 loss estimate to $10.16 from $7.55.Responding to these dismal situations, GM issued a formal statement Friday attempting to reinsure nervous investors, stating that bankruptcy is not an option on the table. 'Clearly we face unprecedented challenges related to uncertainty in the financial markets globally and weakening economic fundamentals in many key markets,' GM said. 'But bankruptcy protection is not an option GM is considering. Bankruptcy would not be in the interests of our employees, stockholders, suppliers or customers.'
