No longer holder of the title of largest U.S. bank, Citi may get smaller yetOnce the largest U.S. financial institution, Citigroup has been pushed to the sidelines as the rest of the industry rushes to consolidate. But before it can grow, it may have to get smaller.Stymied in its efforts to buy Wachovia, Citigroup is shrinking while its competitors get bigger. J.P. Morgan Chase, which snapped up Washington Mutual in a government-assisted deal last month, snatched the title of biggest bank by assets at the end of the third quarter, with a balance sheet of $2.25 trillion, compared with $2.05 trillion for Citi. And Bank of America is poised to leap ahead of both firms when it completes its acquisition of Merrill Lynch later this year.Citi might not be done contracting yet. The bank announced $4.4 billion in write-downs on toxic assets en route to a third-quarter loss of $2.8 billion earlier this month. And because its carrying some mortgage-related investments at relatively generous valuations compared with those of some of its peers, according to Goldman Sachs analyst William Tanona, more losses could be on the way.So while Citi works to plug and steady its balance sheet, its competitors could continue to surge past it in size.Citi is already losing ground in a major battle among banks. As fear stoked by the deepening credit crisis drove up the cost of short-term borrowing, a key source of funding for financial institutions, many banks sought to bolster their reservoirs of sturdy, inexpensive deposits. But Citi hasnt kept pace with its competitors in that push, figures released by the banks show.Bank of Americas total deposits grew 11.4% during the three months ended Sept. 30, to $874.1 billion, some 25% higher than a year earlier. And J.P. Morgan, powered by its takeover of Washington Mutual last month after regulators seized the savings and loan, saw deposits rise by 34.2%, to $969.8 billion, in the third quarter, and more than 43% over the 12 months.But Citis total deposits have fallen 2.9% from June to September, and 4% since last year. Still, corporate deposits were strong, with some $55 billion flowing in during the final weeks of September, Citi CFO Gary Crittenden said on a conference call with analysts.Meanwhile, new rivals are emerging. Once it digests Wachovia, Wells Fargo will rank among the largest U.S. banks, with $772.4 billion in total deposits at the end of the third quarter, according to the companies quarterly results. That barely trails Citis $780.3 billion. And the turmoil in the banking industry seems to be helping Wells Fargo, as it reported so-called core depositsincluding funds in checking, savings and money-market deposit accountssurged some 30% during the quarter in what we believe is a flight to quality, CFO Howard Atkins said in a statement.And Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanleys recent metamorphosis into commercial banks means theyll likely compete for deposits as well.The U.S. Treasury Departments plan to inject $250 billion in capital directly into banks by purchasing preferred shares may speed consolidation in the financial industry by giving firms fresh currency to use on deals.Some of the smaller banks will be able to do deals in this, but what the Treasury is going to try to mastermind is the creation of fewer and larger institutions, said Nancy Bush, founder and analyst with NAB Research. If youre already a big bank, youre going to get bigger.That likely will increase competition for attractive targets, especially given that executives at some of the smaller regional banks relatively undamaged by exposure to high-risk mortgages have said they will consider using the governments cash infusion to make acquisitions.We believe there will be some excellent opportunities after the dust settles, said BB&amp;amp;T chief operating officer Kelly King on a conference call with analysts. The North Carolina-based bank would consider spending up to $15 billion to acquire a rival, Mr. King said. Thats nearly as much as the initial value of Wells Fargos Oct. 3 all-stock bid for Wachovia.Irene Esteves, CFO of Memphis, Tenn.-based Regions Financial, said her bank may also consider using some government-provided capital to fund a deal. Under the plan, Regions may be eligible for up to $3.5 billion, she said on a conference call, which would enable us to take advantage of unforeseen opportunities and expand our customer base through organic growth or through acquisition.Regulators may use their plan to invest in banks to encourage deals in another way, Ms. Bush said: By withholding capital, they may force sick institutions into the arms of healthier rivals. Citi has already shown it is willing to do a deal under those circumstancesafter all, it made its ill-fated bid for Wachovia with the FDIC pledging to assume part of the risk of outsize losses.What were not hearing is whether some of these banks are going to apply for capital, and the Treasury or whoever makes this decision takes a look at their prospects and says, We think youd be better off getting together with somebody else, said Ms. Bush. Part of this process may be arranged marriages instead of the direct infusions of capital.Of course, Citi will get a shot of capital toothe Treasury would invest $25 billion in preferred shares under its plan. But because Citi hasnt been as aggressive as many other banks in writing down the value of its mortgage-related investments, it may need to use the proceeds of the governments infusion to patch up its balance sheet rather than to make acquisitions, Mr. Tanona said.Although the government investment will help Citis overall capital position, we believe the firm is less likely to go on the offensive to use it, he wrote. FWMore on this TopicBe careful what you wish for: Wachovia reports $24 billion loss 10/22/2008 8:56:31 AMWells looks to short-circuit Citi's Wachovia lawsuit 10/14/2008 3:43:28 PMFed to Wells Fargo: Wachovia is all yours 10/13/2008 8:27:52 AMReturn of the credit raters 10/12/2008 12:03:20 AMWachovia i-bank unwanted 10/12/2008 12:03:20 AMRelated Topics &amp;amp; Web ContentReproductions and distribution of the above article are strictly prohibited. To order reprints and/or request permission to use the article in full or partial format please contact our Reprint Sales Manager at (732) 723-0569.
