The Wall Street brokerages and investment banks, with the encouragement of federal policy makers, take a piece of the blame for flooding America with cash.Our presidents (past and present), who love to brag that more people own homes than ever, and Congress, which loves the revenue generated by a growing economy, are responsible, having loosened the rules to get that cash into society.As a result of these changes, Americans were able to buy a home with no money down - even the loan's closing costs could be financed. And if you still couldn't afford it, well, no one would know because lenders were willing to grant you a loan without verifying that you had any income or assets at all. Loan officers started calling these mortgages liar loans.By 2003, it took less cash to buy a house than to rent an apartment, and the monthly payments were lower, too. It's no wonder that, year after year, homeownership reached a new all-time high, just as the politicians wanted.With loans in high demand, lenders needed lots of capital and our nation's biggest brokerages were only too happy to help.The big brokerage firms bought the loans from the banks and packaged them into pools. They split the pools into pieces (tranches in Wall Street parlance) and sold each tranche to investors.Pension funds, endowments, hedge funds and mutual funds scarfed them up. Many of the pools held new subprime or Alt-A mortgages - obtained by borrowers with liar loans and little or no assets or income.But on paper, the loans were profitable, and Wall Street found them easy to sell to investors eager for the high returns. And to give the illusion of safety, firms creating these securities had them insured.Enter AIG and other insurance companies. In exchange for a premium, AIG agreed to guarantee these investments in one way or another. Now, with Lehman's collapse, it appears that those promises might need to be honored. There are fears that AIG might not be able to pay all those claims.So there you have it. Wall Street invented newfangled investment products (including collateralized debt obligations, constant proportion debt obligations, structured investment vehicles and more).Being new and untested, no one could say exactly how these investments would perform, but insurance companies guaranteed them, enabling Wall Street to offer rosy scenarios.The insurers got rich selling policies with fat premiums, brokerages got rich selling new securities, lenders got rich selling more loans than ever, builders, real estate agents, title settlement companies, appraisers, inspectors - everyone got rich from the ensuing real estate boom.The only ones who didn't get immediate profits were the borrowers, who hoped the houses they were buying would rise in value, and the investors, who hoped their investments would be profitable.Top 10 Articles of the Day1. Cataclysmic events on Wall Street and in the economy shake foundations of iconic Berks businesses2. Man shot in Reading after seeing woman exposing breasts3. Sinking Spring author, psychiatrist heals with humor4. Wanted in Berks5. Berks County ahead of the curve on early prisoner releases6. Crime Alert: Tips sought in Spring Township bank robbery7. Penn State stops Pryor, Buckeyes8. Court delinquents9. Rescue crews search for Bern Township man10. Domestic relations fugitivesIt's an amazing cycle. People desperate to buy a house found banks happy to lend them money, using cash provided by Wall Street investment banks (also known as brokerage firms), which had raised the cash by buying the loans, packaging them into investments, getting insurers to guarantee them, and then selling the investments to investors - many of which included mutual funds, whose shares often are owned by the very people who were requesting the loans.As more loans were obtained, builders constructed more houses, real estate agents hawked the properties, and prices rose - often quickly and dramatically.Of course, this game had to come to an end. Borrowers who were paying less than the interest cost each month were told not to worry. They were told that after three years or so, when payments would have to begin at the full amortized rate, they'd be able to refinance the loan or sell the house.Either will be easy, the borrowers were told, because the house will rise in value and interest rates will drop.But we know what happened instead. Interest rates didn't fall; they rose. And home prices didn't rise; they fell.As a result, borrowers who had signed up for these newfangled loans found themselves suddenly facing monthly payments that were as much as three times higher than previous payments.Unable to pay and unable to sell the house for as much as they owed the bank, upward of 2.75 percent of the nation's homeowners who have mortgages have defaulted, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, with many of them losing their homes and helping to lower housing prices even more.And what of the banks and brokerage firms that helped to fuel all this? Well, Indy Mac Bank, the nation's seventh largest seller of subprime mortgages, is gone as is Washington Mutual.Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are essentially government agencies. Investment banks such as Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers are an institution of the past, and AIG is 80 percent government-owned.These institutions earned huge profits by foisting their wares on a largely unsuspecting public that is stuck with the mess they've left behind. You might think the firms would have learned a lesson.Well, maybe they did: With $23.9 billion in employee bonuses paid in 2006, executives at those firms may well have concluded that such behavior is justified.So, all we can say is that these firms have finally gotten their comeuppance. Now they're gone, and we say good riddance.By that, I refer to their boards and CEOs. My heart goes out to the many tens of thousands of employees whose jobs are at risk, along with their pensions, retirement plans and stock option programs.Contact Ric Edelman, a columnist at United Media and author of several books, including 'Ordinary People, Extraordinary Wealth,' at money@ricedelman.com.
