Hedge funds run by US manager John Paulson, one of last years best performers and a short- seller of UK banks, have bucked a trend of worldwide hedge fund losses by making returns of more than 19% this year.One fund generated 589.62% in what is thought to be the largest dollar return in a year from a single hedge fund.Investors said the Paulson Advantage Plus fund was one of the best performers so far this year, with a net return of 19.44% for the year to the end of August. The fund made 158.75% last year and, through a combination of investment gains and new capital, has grown from about $100m (70m) at the start of 2007 to almost $9bn, Financial News Online can exclusively reveal.The hedge fund industry as a whole was down 4.85% for the year to the end of August, according to the non-investable index published by US data provider Hedge Fund Research. This is the worst start to the year since the firms records began in 1990. Its investable index, which is based on a small sample of funds but is considered an early indicator of the main indexs returns, was down 7.11% in the month to September 29.Paulsons Advantage fund was up 13.22% for the year to the end of August, having made 100.15% last year. Its Credit Opportunities fund was up 12.95%, having made 351.72% last year; its Credit Opportunities fund was up 12.46%, having made 589.62% last year; its Enhanced fund was up 8.17%, having made 116.48% last year; and its International fund was up 5.17%, having made 51.7% last year.Paulson turned a $500m investment in its Credit Opportunities fund into $3.5bn over the course of last year, considered by investment consultants and investors the largest dollar amount ever generated by a hedge fund in a year.Paulson &amp;amp; Co. as a whole managed $35bn at the end of June, making it one of the largest 10 hedge fund managers. Last week it disclosed short positions in HBOS, Lloyds TSB, Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland. It short positions, which will have made money as the banks share price fell, ranged from 0.9% to 1.8% of each banks market capitalisation.Paulson &amp;amp; Co made billions of dollars for it investors and an estimated $3.7bn for John Paulson himself last year after spotting an opportunity to one side of its primary focus.John Paulson, a former mergers and acquisitions banker, established his firm as a merger arbitrage hedge fund manager, seeking to make money from situations when one public company announces plans to take over another. Merger arbitrage hedge funds primarily study equity markets, but they also research the market for credit default swaps, a form of insurance that starts paying out as soon as a credit security falls in value. Managers using merger arbitrage strategies are motivated to look at the credit default swaps market because a failure to raise debt finance is frequently a reason for a proposed takeover to be abandoned, which would cost them money, so an appropriate credit default swap will hedge some of the risks in their long and short equity positions.In 2006, Paulson realized that banks were selling credit default swaps on the BBB-rated tranches of securities backed by US sub-prime mortgages. The buyer had to pay a premium of 1% a year to the banks, which undertook to pay out the value of any falls in the tranches. It was a kind of insurance contract for the buyer, while the banks were effectively writing a put option, taking the risk of a sudden, large loss.Paulson considered this the opportunity of a lifetime, because warnings were already being made about the growing risk of default on mortgages made to sub-prime US household borrowers, and he raised $100m to invest in it.Paulson Europe LLP, the firms UK subsidiary, did not return a call seeking comment. The US firm was not available for comment at press time.
