Rents remain flat overall, but market is weakening from economic tumultA report released by the real estate services firm Cushman &amp;amp; Wakefield this morning showed that months of slowing economic activity and recent upheaval on Wall Street has begun to substantially weaken the citys leasing market.The problems have taken form in an unprecedented series of bankruptcies, reorganizations, government takeovers and emergency mergers among some of the biggest players in the financial sector, which is the citys largest space using industry.Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter 11 and was subsequently partially acquired by the London based bank Barclays. Merrill Lynch arranged an emergency $50 billion sale of itself to Bank of America. JPMorgan Chase took control of Washington Mutual after regulators seized the bank, the nations largest thrift. The government purchased an $85 billion majority stake in AIG and is expected to dismantle the insurance giant. Citibank and Wells Fargo have entered into contentious litigation to determine who will purchase Wachovia, which had been on the verge of bankruptcy.The string of upheaval will likely cast millions of square feet onto the office market, although it could take months before the full extent of what will be shed is known. The report showed that the process though is already afoot.The amount of sublease space rose 72% from 3.8 million square feet this time last year to 6.5 millions square feet according to C&amp;amp;Ws data, the largest such increase in almost four years the firm said. Overall vacancy, which includes both sublease space and space offered directly by landlords, increased 1.3% year over year and 0.3% from last quarter, rising to 7.4%.We believe we hit the inflection point of the market in August, Joseph Harbert, C&amp;amp;Ws chief operating officer in New York, said in a statement released by the firm. The top of the market was reached and now were beginning to soften.So far there have been few takers to absorb the additional supply. Most tenants are putting real estate decisions on hold to either capitalize on better rents that many expect are just around the corner due to the falling market or because of the dismal economic picture, which has created months of job losses and less demand for office space.There is clearly uncertainty about the near future, and many tenants whose leases do not expire in the short term are waiting to see how it will all shake out, Harbert said in the statement.Overall leasing activity fell 14.4% from last year to 15.7 million square feet, which C&amp;amp;W said was the least amount of space taken since 2003, a period during which the country was in what economists considered a mild recession. So far this year, the market is hemorrhaging more space than tenants can soak up, 2.9 million square feet compared to a net release of about 470,000 square feet last year.Rents remained essentially flat across the city for direct space, registering their smallest quarterly gain since midway through 2006. But the price of sublease space fell 5% in midtown to $78.01 per square foot, driven by the large addition of supply. Average direct rents in midtown were $84.48, $54.23 in midtown south and $50.89 downtown.The investment sales market, crippled by the credit crunch, has ground to a more immediate halt. Only $18.7 billion of property was traded through the first three quarters of this year, a figure that compares starkly to the record $42.4 billion of sales that were in contract of completed at the same time last year.The last time less than $20 billion of deals were done was 2004. But the numbers so far this year may not even reflect the full severity of the situation. Much of the activity so far this year has been driven by the availability of seller financing and foreign buyers, dynamics that usually dont prop up the market and could shift.The report said that the sale of a portfolio of midtown office towers that investor Harry Macklowe defaulted on earlier in the year accounted for half the activity in the sales market and that those deals were enabled because Macklowes chief financier, Deutsche Bank, provided mortgages to buyers. Foreign buyers accounted for 40% of sales transactions in the city.
