Worldwide assets decline 8.4% only a year after big increase, but U.S. institutional assets rise 5%Managers of real estate investment trust securities saw their total assets drop 8.4% to $229 billion in the 12 months ended June 30. That is a harsh reversal from the 29% gain in the previous year's survey of the largest real estate managers by sister publication Pensions &amp;amp; Investments.However, U.S. institutional tax-exempt assets managed in REIT securities increased 5% for the year ended June 30, to $68 billion.During the period the FTSE NAREIT All-REIT Index returned -16.57%.REIT returns began slipping in January 2007 but began to rally a bit this spring, noted Brad Case, vice president of research and industry information at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts in Washington.Among the largest managers of REIT securities, top-ranked Barclays Global Investors' total assets increased by 6% to $26.6 billion, but the San Francisco-based manager's U.S. institutional tax-exempt assets dipped by about 1% to $11.4 billion.Cohen &amp;amp; Steers Capital Management Inc. of New York slipped to second from the top spot last year, with overall assets of $19.2 billion, down 27% from 2007. Morgan Stanley Investment Management of New York held on to third place despite seeing its overall REIT securities assets fall 24% to $19.1 billion.The REIT market correction that started in early 2007 pushed stock prices down 20% to 50%, said Paul Gray, co-chief investment officer of REIT manager Kensington Investment Group Inc. of Orinda, Calif. The global slowdown and uncertainty about the credit markets affected real estate, and investors anticipated a repricing of properties, he said.'REITs are capital-intensive. They use about 50% leverage and they have to continually refinance,' Mr. Gray said.BGI executives saw more interest in international REITs during the period, even though investors still appear to have a 'home bias,' said Amy Schioldager, managing director and head of U.S. indexing for the firm.'We grew our REIT business pretty significantly in the past year and a half,' she said.Highly leveraged REITs began to lose ground, causing their stock prices to fall. A few, such as Centro Properties Trust of Glen Waverley, Australia, liquidated.Now many REIT stocks are trading at 10% to 20% below the value of the property they own in their portfolios, Mr. Gray said.'There was unusual volatility this year compared to the historical standard,' he said.'REITs have always been spoken about as a diversifier, and that still holds,' Ms. Schioldager said. 'The correlation is fairly low ... between global and U.S. REITs.'However, a look at the performance of U.S. REITs and international real estate securities provides a lesson in the benefits of diversification, she said.Last year, U.S. REITs were down close to 18%, compared with nearly 4% for international REITs. This year, international REITs are down 23%, while domestic REITs are up about 2%.Much of the overall negative international returns were blamed on the failure of the newly approved German REIT market, which failed to produce expected market capitalization this year.'Early reports were that Germany's [REIT market] would rival or exceed the U.S. market, which is capitalized between $200 and $250 billion,' Ms. Schioldager said. 'People were expecting a big market, and it has not materialized,' because the initial public offering market froze and German REITs couldn't attract investors, she said.Stocks of a few U.S. REITs, such as Public Storage Inc. of Glendale, Calif., flourished using lower levels of debt, Mr. Gray said. Public Storage's total return for the 12-month period ended June 30 was 7.98%.At the same time, REITs in the same sectors had dramatically different performance.Retail REIT Simon Property Group Inc. of Indianapolis outperformed General Growth Properties Inc. because the latter had more leverage on its balance sheet, Mr. Gray said. Simon Property stock returned 0.32% for the one-year period ended June 30, versus -30.7% for Chicago-based General Growth.Around the world, fortunes of REIT markets turned on a dime. Hong Kong was the worst-performing region in 2008 only a year after being the best performer worldwide. The United Kingdom had one of the worst-performing real estate securities markets last year; it began to recover in the first quarter of 2008 but dropped again in the second quarter.'The volatility is so high that in a month, it could be different,' Mr. Gray said.Managers of global REITs got a boost from an investor trend toward global mandates  where managers decide in which regions to invest  at the expense of domestic- and international-REIT portfolios, he said.Arleen Jacobius is a reporter for sister publication Pensions &amp;amp; Investments.
