LONDON, Oct 13 (Reuters) - The British plan to recapitalise three of its largest banks creates winners at the advisory arms of Britain's decimated investment banks, but the deals are not going to win them fat underwriting fees, bankers said. UBS, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley are winning deals as the British government pumps in 37 billion pounds ($64.47 billion) of taxpayers' money to recapitalise three major banks. But unlike the previous deals this year which earned them 2 to 4 percent fees by underwriting share sales for banks including RBS, HBOS and Barclays, the financial advisers are likely to get around a 1 percent fee from the current round of capital hikes. 'It depends on what percentage of the shares on offer go to the government and what portions of them are being taken by institutional investors,' one London-based equity capital markets banker said. In the case of RBS the fee depends on whether investors are willing to put more cash into the bank after suffering a combined 8.3 billion-pound paper loss since participating in the record 12 billion pound rights issue in June. With RBS shares closing 8.37 percent lower at 63.85 pence on Monday, below the government underwriting price of 65.5 pence each, a take-up rate of 95 percent is unlikely to be achieved, fund managers said. 'Now the prices have fallen below the government entry levels, you can always buy in the market, or you can wait for more information when they publish the legal-binding prospectus for more information,' one fund manager said. 'I won't say nobody is interested, but certainly everybody is cautious,' he added. If the financial advisers cannot get institutional investors on board it would also mean that they would not be credited for industry league tables. Barclays' 4.5 billion pounds rights issue in July was not included in the equity capital markets rankings table as it was a 'Best Efforts' deal in which Barclays directly brought in strategic investors such as the Qatar Investment Authority and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp, circumventing its advisers J.P. Morgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse So far this year investment banks have earned $2.6 billion in fees on equity capital markets activities in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region, according to Thomson Reuters. Morgan Stanley, which handled some of the biggest rights issues seen in the financial sector -- RBS's $24 billion deal in June, the $15 billion raised for UBS and Societe Generale's $8.5 billion share sale -- top the EMEA equity capital markets fee rankings so far this year, followed by J.P. Morgan and UBS, according to Thomson Reuters data. (Editing by Greg Mahlich) ((For related factbox please double-click on and for related table please double-click on [ID:LD501482])) ($1=.5739 pounds) tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com ak COPYRIGHT Copyright  
