We have never believed in filing lawsuits as a knee-jerk reaction to adversity. We think W.Va. Gov. Joe Manchin feels the same way. Still, the governor is absolutely right to have instructed members of his staff to research possible legal action involving the state's gigantic losses in the stock market.During the fiscal year that ended June 30, the state's investment pool lost $643 million. As we have pointed out previously, prudence on the part of state investment officials held that loss down to a reasonable level - about 6 percent of the total in state investments. Many states, financial institutions and individuals have suffered much, much worse losses.But $643 million still is a lot of money. There is a possibility that some of it may have been lost because of improprieties by corporate executives. A substantial number of them may not have told investors the truth about the health of their companies during recent years.To put the issue in perspective, consider this: The state holds a relatively small stake in the Lehman Brothers firm that went belly-up a few weeks ago. In comparing the stock's current value to the amount paid by the state investment pool, West Virginia has lost $1.1 million on Lehman Brothers.Sit down for this: The company's chief executive officer during the period in which Lehman Brothers was going down had a five-year compensation package totaling $354 million. Obviously, members of the firm's board of directors thought he was doing a good job. It turns out that, by definition, he wasn't performing well.How much of the false impression of good health at Lehman Brothers was due to mistakes - and how much was due to 'cooking the books' and other intentional efforts to mislead - is a question on Wall Street. It needs to be answered in Charleston, too.West Virginia also has lost money on other companies in the news: a total of $23 million from holdings in Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and insurance giant AIG.Even if wrongdoing is discovered, there is no way to calculate how much the state could recover through legal action. Manchin is right to begin investigating the issue, however. Our suggestion is that the governor's office begin contacting chief executives in other states to explore the possibility of joint action. If some of the investment money lost can be recovered, Manchin should do everything in his power to make that happen.
