ANZ chief executive Mike Smith has made it clear he intends to do what he can to protect the bank's balance sheet. He was among the first of the big bank CEOs to ramp up provisioning, anticipating a slowing economy and now Smith, a former HSBC-banker has set the benchmark for cutting bank dividends - in ANZ's case it is likely to be around 25% this year.  Such a move would tip a further $500 million into the balance sheet keeping capital ratios at high levels. Rivals including Commonwealth Bank and NAB have so far raised the prospect of a dividend cut, but none have been so specific.  Even with a possible dividend cut ANZ was still pointing to a possible dividend yield of around 8% at current share prices. This will be the low end of a 8-10% range of its rivals, but still healthy compared to an average of 6% the S&amp;P/ASX 200 is trading on.  In its first half update to investors, ANZ's has revealed legacy issues continue to pummel its expense line frustrating its efforts to navigate the downturn.  Among one-off charges appear to be muddying were some $110 million in redundancy costs (the bank axed around 500 staffers late last year).  A further $130 million was set aside as part of ANZ's share of compensation to New Zealand customers after the operator of its wealth management joint venture there ING, froze two funds. The $42 billion joint venture expires in 2012 and ANZ has made no secret over its displeasure.  Elsewhere the problematic exposure to credit intermediation trades continue to play havoc - causing a further $370 million expense. This comes on top of the some $290 million of charges last year.  While ANZ has not actually suffered a loss on these trades, the widening of credit spreads is forcing it to value down the pricing of these instruments held on its balance sheet.  This remains the big unknown over ANZ's future profitability. If credit markets improve and credit spreads begin to tighten then these writedowns will start to be written back. However credit spreads could still blow out further.  While no new big name corporate losses have emerged Smith has acknowledged the economic slowdown will soon be felt across its retail bank - an area that has so far remained relatively resilient. Expected full year provisions of as much as $2.5 billion this year will be up from $1.95 billion last year. This will be another factor keeping earnings flat for fiscal 2009.  Until now, recession-hit New Zealand has been a big feature of the banking updates. For ANZ there is a difference in that nearly 20% of its earnings are generated from across the Tasman, giving it the largest exposure of the big banks.  'Like many New Zealand businesses we're doing it tough,' Smith admitted.  Beyond these problems is a bank that is running relatively well, particularly in Australian retail markets.  ANZ's revenues are surging as the big four tighten their grip over the nation's lending market. While market volatility has meant trading income from institutional business has also soared.  For ANZ, total income growth for the four months to end-January is up 16%. But most of this has been soaked up by expense growth of 14% over the same period as redundancy costs and capital intensive investments in Asia were booked through the profit and loss statement.  There is some cause for optimism. Smith said there were signs the economic downturn may not be as 'deep and as protracted' as many had feared.  
