ANZ Bank is cutting its 2009 full-year dividend by 25% but assures investors that its underlying business performance remains resilient.  In a trading update issued this morning, ANZ says its Asia Pacific pro forma profit after tax for the four months to January was around $A1.2 billion, a decrease of 11% over the corresponding period in 2008.  The bank  Australias fourth largest lender  said its total provisions are running in line with market consensus at between $A2.4 billion and $A2.5 billion.  Understandably the outlook is sensitive to the rate of slowdown in the Australian and New Zealand economies.  Cash earnings for the first four months  excluding provisions and hedging gains  are up 18% on the same period in 2008.  While the bank has marked to market around $330 million in after tax gains from one-off economic hedging, it has incurred a $370 million charge on derivatives.  The bank has also taken a big hit from its New Zealand subsidiary ING New Zealand, which has frozen two funds originally worth $521 million. The funds, which were sold through both ING and ANZ, are now worth just $163.7 million based on current unit prices.  ING yesterday made an offer to buy out investors in the Diversified Yield Fund (DYF) and Regular Income Fund (RIF) at 60c and 62c a unit respectively if they want cash now. Otherwise they can wait five years for a guaranteed minimum 83c and 86c per unit payout, with the right to partake in any rise in value above that.  ANZs share of the current cost of this offer is $130 million, which will be taken as a charge against revenue.  The ultimate cost to ANZ will depend on the final value of the units and recoveries under ANZ insurance policies, the bank said in a statement this morning.  ANZ said 2009 dividends will be about 25% less than last year. At current share prices, the dividend yield following the expected dividend reduction is around 8% fully franked, ANZ said.  Chief executive Mike Smith says, 'While Australia is better positioned than most other countries and has been remarkably resilient so far, it has not given us impunity  nor will it this year. We are also facing difficult conditions in New Zealand.'  
