 Greatwide also announced that it has entered into a $95 million credit facility from Bank of America, Wachovia and PNC.  The Trucker News Services  DALLAS  Greatwide Logistics Services acquisition by private investment firm Centerbridge Partners and other investors, including affiliates of The D. E. Shaw Group., has been completed, the non-asset-based transportation and third-party logistics services company reported Feb. 20.  With the successful completion of this transaction, Greatwide is now a financially stronger company poised to meet the challenges of todays marketplace. We are now better positioned than ever to serve our customers and to prudently pursue growth opportunities, Greatwide President and CEO Raymond B. Greer said. We at Greatwide are energized and excited about continuing our operations and growing under new ownership.  As part of the transaction, Leo Suggs will become chairman of Greatwide. Suggs, the former president of UPS Freight, has devoted almost 50 years of his life to the trucking industry. He was the CEO of Overnite Transportation and instrumental in taking the company public in 2003 and selling the company to UPS in 2005.  Im excited to be joining a world class organization that has now combined the strong competitive advantages of the Greatwide business model with the financial flexibility to thrive, Suggs said. With the restructuring complete, I am eager to spend my time helping the company strengthen its already superior track record of customer service, safety and now sustained profitability.  Greatwide also announced that it has entered into a $95 million credit facility from Bank of America, Wachovia and PNC.  Founded in Dallas, Texas in 2000, Greatwide Logistics Services is a privately held, $1 billion third-party logistics services company. The company is ranked No. 22 on the Commercial Carrier Journal 250 and No. 24 on the Traffic World Top 100 lists. The company has four primary lines of business: dedicated transport, truckload management, freight brokerage and distribution logistics.  Centerbridge Partners was established in 2006 and currently has approximately $7.2 billion in capital under management across two funds. Centerbridges limited partners include many of the worlds most prominent financial institutions, university endowments, pension funds, and charitable trusts.  Kevin Jones of The Trucker staff can be reached for comment at kevinj@thetrucker.com.
