FRANKFURT - GERMANY'S Deutsche Postbank AG careened to a heavy loss in the fourth quarter and for 2008 due to big writedowns on investments, including exposure to the collapsed US bank Lehman Brothers.   The Frankfurt-based bank, which is being sold to Deutsche Bank AG, said on Thursday it lost 710 million euros (S$1.35 billion) in the October-December period compared with a profit of 166 million euros a year earlier.   It blamed a drop in income from investment securities - a 336 million euros impairment on its exposure to Lehman Brothers, along with losses of 603 million euros on the sale of equities and mutual funds. New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc was once the United States' fourth-biggest investment bank. It filed the biggest bankruptcy in US history on Sept 15. Its main assets have since been sold.   The fourth-quarter figure was also hurt by a 581 million euros charge for the sale of equity investments.   'This was mainly due to one-off charges that we took as part of the active reduction of capital market risks and portfolios - such as the complete liquidation of our equity portfolio - that we announced,' the bank said.   Despite the quarterly loss, Postbank shares were nearly 6 per cent higher at 9.26 euros in Frankfurt trading.   The bank's net interest income managed to rise to 738 million euros from 602 million euros a year earlier, a gain of 22 per cent, For the year, Postbank lost 821 million euros compared with a profit of 856 million euros the year before. Its net interest income rose to nearly 2.5 billion euros compared with 2.2 billion euros in 2007.   The bank said its tier one ratio - a barometer of a financial institution's well being - was at 7.4 per cent, below the 10 per cent figure that most banks have set as the standard for health.   The bank said it was hard to issue an outlook for 2009 but conceded that 'the tight situation on the markets and the economic downturn will continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations in the current fiscal year'. Postbank added that it expected 'a further impact' on its net trading income and net income from investment securities. -- AP 
