(Adds Morgan Stanley, New York Life, Barclays Global Investors, and Putnam) Feb 19 (Reuters) - The following financial services industry appointments were announced on Thursday. To inform us of other job changes, e-mail moves@thomsonreuters.com. BNP PARIBAS SA The financial services provider named Jacques d'Estais, current head of Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB), as head of Asset Management &amp; Services (AMS). The company also appointed Alain Papiasse, current head of AMS, as head of CIB. These two appointments will take effect from March 31, the company said. MORGAN STANLEY The U.S. bank appointed William Wicker as a vice chairman of investment banking in the Natural Resources Group, focused on the energy sector. Wicker, 59, joined from Goldman Sachs, where he held various senior positions as a partner managing director in the Natural Resources Group. NEW YORK LIFE The insurance company named President and Chief Executive Ted Mathas as chairman, effective June 1. Mathas, 41, has served as New York Life's president since July 2007 and CEO since July 2008. He will retain both titles upon assuming the chairman's post. BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS The asset management firm hired John Longley to head national accounts for the U.S. iShares exchange traded funds. Longley was formerly chief executive of Citi Private Bank. He will start in his new role this spring and will report to Joe Linhares, head of iShares sales. PENSION PROTECTION FUND The fund said it appointed David Heslop as its new chief operating officer and member of its board. Heslop will take over from Derek Cribb who has been interim COO for almost 18 months. The fund added that Heslop has spent more than 20 years with General Accident Life and Norwich Union Life. CORDEA SAVILLS Cordea Savills, the international property fund manager, has expanded its Munich-based investment team with the appointment of Gerhard Lehner, who would be responsible for the portfolio management of the European Commercial Fund.  Gerhard joined Cordea Savills from KG Allgemeine Leasing GmbH&amp;Co, a financial services group in Europe for structured financing and leasing concepts. SAGENT ADVISORS The M&amp;A advisory firm announced that veteran Citigroup and Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette banker Bill Kohr has joined the firm as a Managing Director and Head of Sagents new Chicago office. Kohr will also serve as Head of Sagents Automotive Group and Co-Head of its Industrial Group. GARTMORE The asset management firm announced the impending appointment of John Anderson to its Fixed Income team as Head of Credit. Anderson, who comes from Rensburg Fund Management, will join later this year and will report to Dominic Rossi, chief investment officer at Gartmore. SINGER CAPITAL MARKETS Singer Capital Markets, the UK capital markets and advisory partnership, announced the appointment of Michael Heery to the UK Equity sales team from March 2. Heery joins from Cazenove where he was a senior salesman, specialising in small and medium-sized companies between 2002 and 2009. PUTNAM INVESTMENTS The money management firm hired David Glancy as managing director and portfolio manager. Glancy, 47, previously was portfolio manager at Andover Capital, where he was a founding partner. (Compiled by R. Manikandan in Bangalore, and Juan Lagorio in New York) Keywords: FINANCIAL/MOVES (Raman.Manikandan@reuters.com; within U.S. +1 646 223 8780; outside U.S. +91 80 4135 5800; Reuters Messaging: Raman.Manikandan.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
