Schroders, the fund manager, may shed more staff and will cut pay after a huge outflow in funds from its retail arm, it revealed yesterday.   The group, which cut 225 jobs in the second half of last year, said it was actively managing its costs and it was possible there may be further reductions in its 3,000-strong workforce worldwide. The company also expects its wages bill to fall sharply as a result of lower bonuses and performance-related pay.   Michael Dobson, chief executive, confirmed that Schroders was taking a more draconian view but insisted it was reluctant to reduce its workforce too aggressively. He said: We dont want to do anything that will damage our franchise, or limit our opportunity to exploit any recovery when markets recover, by cutting costs in the short term. Mr Dobson said that, while he expected the challenging environment to persist through 2009, the hit to profits of lower levels of assets under management would be partly offset by reduced salaries and other costs.   The news came as Schroders, one of the UKs most popular Isa providers, admitted that many of its retail customers had sold out of equities in the wake of last years stock market collapse. It suffered a 6.2 billion outflow from its retail funds during 2008 compared with a record net inflow of 8.8 billion during the previous year. This, along with falls in the market, meant funds under management in the retail arm collapsed from 56.2 billion to 38.9 billion. Funds under management at Schroders institutional arm also fell, dropping from 73.2 billion to 59.6 billion, with clients withdrawing a net 3.8 billion. Overall, funds under management at Schroders declined 21 per cent to 110.2 billion. The news came as Schroders reported a 68 per cent slide in headline pretax profits to 290.5 million. However, this did not include one-off items of some 167.4 million, of which 124.6 million was realised losses on the sales of some investments and writedowns in the value of some assets retained by the company. Of these, some 72 million was related to asset-backed or mortgage-backed securities, with the remainder a combination of writedowns on the companys private equity portfolio, hedge funds and seed capital.   Carolyn Dorrett, of UBS, said the writedowns covered areas that had been worth 585 million at September 30 implying that Schroders had slashed their value by a quarter. She added: We had only forecast a 38 million [exceptional] loss. Most of the writedowns and losses were incurred during the second half of the year and Schroders emphasised that all assets on its balance sheet at the end of the year were marked to market.   The one-offs also included some 13.6 million in redundancy costs and impairment charges after the acquisitions of a Singapore-based private client business, from Commonwealth Bank of Australia, and Swiss Res asset management arm.   This meant that full-year pretax profits, after all one-offs, collapsed from 392.5 million to 123.1 million. Shares in Schroders rose 15p to 670p on relief that the results were no worse than expected, but Haley Tam and Daniel Garrod, analysts for Citigroup, warned that the figures were flattered by foreign exchange translations.   The results came a day after Schroders closed its UK Income Defensive fund less than a year after it was launched. 
