The company that does business as John Laing Homes, the 14th-largest homebuilder in Sacramento based on 2008 sales, filed a chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization petition in Delaware on Thursday claiming between $500 million and $1 billion in debts.  Irvine-based WL Homes LLC, which builds under the John Laing brand primarily in California, Colorado, Arizona and Texas, has an estimated 25,000 to 50,000 creditors, according to its bankruptcy filings.  The filing comes two weeks after the builder closed its Northern California office in Sacramento and laid off employees. Sales offices in Sacramento had been closed prior to that move.  According to Bradley Sharp, the companys chief restructuring officer who filed a declaration in the case, unaudited financial statements for WL Homes fiscal year ending Nov. 30 show that the company had assets with a book value of approximately $1.3 billion and debts totaling $977 million at the time. Sharp said revenue fell from $948 million in 2007 to $248 million last year.  A list of secured creditors had not been filed as of Thursday. According to Sharps affidavit, the company has revolving credit facilities with Bank of America, Wachovia Bank, RFC Construction Funding LLC, and Guaranty Bank and other secured debt totaling $350 million. Among its largest unsecured creditors are employees who are owed wages.  John Laing issued a statement saying the company, anticipates that the Chapter 11 process will allow it to significantly reduce debt from its balance sheet while facilitating a strategic reorganization of the company, which will place it in the strongest possible position to sustain its momentum despite extremely challenging market conditions. The company said it plants to utilize a debtor in possession line of credit to maintain operations. The company filed several motions to allow it to pay employees, hire bankruptcy lawyers and retain restructuring specialists.  John Laing started out as a builder in the United Kingdom and came to the U.S. Market in 1984. The company was sold to Dubai-based Emaar Properties in 2006 for $1.05 billion, just as the housing market began to turn. Emaar Properties is Dubais largest publicly listed developer and had intended to expand the company into national builder, Sharp said.  John Laing had eight active new-home projects across the Sacramento region.  John Laing Homes had 131 home sales in the Sacramento region last year, down from 177 homes in 2007, according to analyst Hanley Wood Market Intelligence. Sharps affidavit said the builder has 105 real estate developments across the country. It also builds luxury and custom homes.
