 ANDREW WEST  At Gippsland Group Training in Victoria, they have a very simple two-word policy: no lay-offs.  No matter how bad the economy gets, the 1200 apprentices who sign on with the organisation will always have work. They guarantee all successful applicants that they will keep them 'employed for the full four years of your apprenticeship'.  The organisation was born out of the recession that gripped Australia in the early 1980s; during the downturn of the early 1990s it grew. When the training group - which operates like a labour hire company, charging employers a commission on the hourly rate of its apprentices - cannot place the apprentices, they move into full-time training.  John Buchanan, the director of Sydney University's Workplace Research Centre, believes Gippsland Group Training, which has an annual turnover of $45 million, is a model for businesses to survive the recession with their workforces intact.  'They have managed to run a no-retrenchment policy for 20 years in one of the most economically fragile parts of the country,' Professor Buchanan told the Herald.  By contrast, corporate Australia is shedding jobs by the thousands. BHP Billiton will cut 6000 jobs, including 3400 in Australia, 1850 from Pacific Brands, 1047 from Macquarie Bank, 1000 to 2500 from Westpac, 1500 from Qantas, 1000 from the Commonwealth Bank, 800 from OneSteel, 685 from Starbucks, 676 from Rio Tinto, 640 from Don Smallgoods, 600 from Insurance Australia Group, CSR 539, Foster's 455, and so on. The outlook for the labour market appears bleak, with official unemployment tipped to rise to at least 7 per cent by next year.  Even worse were forecasts last month by a leading labour market economist, Professor Bill Mitchell of Newcastle University. He said within 18 months, official unemployment combined with underemployment and those people who drop out of the labour market altogether - discouraged by constant knock-backs from potential employers - could reach 20 per cent.  'One harsh part of economic theory sees this as creative destruction - the market cleansing itself - but in a recession the good goes down with the bad,' Professor Buchanan said. 'Ultimately, it is not good for the economy or companies in particular to engage in such large-scale job shedding because of the expertise they lose.'  His comments are backed by research for the Australian Human Resources Institute by Colorado University professor Wayne Cascio, who finds that mass redundancies do not boost company profits. Companies with less than 5 per cent staff fluctuation a year survive downturns.  But Professor Mitchell does not expect employers will heed the institute's warning. The structure of the labour market has changed too much - and not for the better, he argues.  Over the past 20 years, casual and contract employment has grown dramatically. In the mid 1980s about 20 per cent of people were self-employed or worked as casuals, without any security of employment. That figure is now 40 per cent.  In earlier recessions, such as 1982, some workers were protected by so-called 'job hoarding'. Companies retained positions, such as payroll and administrative staff, who were necessary despite the volume or turnover of business. They also held on to highly trained workers who were expensive to replace when business recovered.  But a combination of technology and the trend over the past 15 years to outsource functions such as computer support and secretarial services means fewer protections for employees.  As the economy recovers, companies are reluctant to take on new full-time staff, and so the pool of part-time workers grows.  Professor Mitchell said three pillars of policy that had once supported the goal of full employment had disappeared.  The economic pillar had ensured government was geared towards achieving full employment. The redistributive pillar had ensured a sufficient transfer of private wealth to support the public sector and the nation-building tasks it undertook. And the collective pillar had guaranteed rights to work and income support. 'Privatisation and the weakening of job protections have undermined the full employment social contract.'
