(NY Times) There were high-fives all around Merrill Lynch headquarters in Lower Manhattan as 2006 drew to a close. The firms performance was breathtaking; revenue and earnings had soared, and its shares were up 40 percent for the year.  And Merrills decision to invest heavily in the mortgage industry was paying off handsomely. So handsomely, in fact, that on Dec. 30 that year, it essentially doubled down by paying $1.3 billion for First Franklin, a lender specializing in risky mortgages.  The deal would provide Merrill with even more loans for one of its lucrative assembly lines, an operation that bundled and repackaged mortgages so they could be resold to other investors.  It was a moment to savor for E. Stanley ONeal, Merrills autocratic leader, and a group of trusted lieutenants who had helped orchestrate the firms profitable but belated mortgage push. Two indispensable members of Mr. ONeals clique were Osman Semerci, who, among other things, ran Merrills bond unit, and Ahmass L. Fakahany, the firms vice chairman and chief administrative officer.  A native of Turkey who began his career trading stocks in Istanbul, Mr. Semerci, 41, oversaw Merrills mortgage operation. He often played the role of tough guy, former executives say, silencing critics who warned about the risks the firm was taking.  At the same time, Mr. Fakahany, 50, an Egyptian-born former Exxon executive who oversaw risk management at Merrill, kept the machinery humming along by loosening internal controls, according to the former executives. Mr. Semercis and Mr. Fakahanys actions ultimately left their firm vulnerable to the increasingly risky business of manufacturing and selling mortgage securities, say former executives, who requested anonymity to avoid alienating colleagues at Merrill. To make matters worse, Merrill sped up its hunt for mortgage riches by embracing and trafficking in complex and lightly regulated contracts tied to mortgages and other debt. And Merrills often inscrutable financial dance was emblematic of the outsize hazards that Wall Street courted.  While questionable mortgages made to risky borrowers prompted the credit crisis, regulators and investors who continue to pick through the wreckage are finding that exotic products known as derivatives  like those that Merrill used  transformed a financial brush fire into a conflagration.  As subprime lenders began toppling after record waves of homeowners defaulted on their mortgages, Merrill was left with $71 billion of eroding mortgage exotica on its books and billions in losses. On Sept. 15 this year  less than two years after posting a record-breaking performance for 2006 and following a weekend that saw the collapse of a storied investment bank, Lehman Brothers, and a huge federal bailout of the insurance giant American International Group  Merrill was forced into a merger with Bank of America.  It was an ignominious end to Americas most famous brokerage house, whose ubiquitous corporate logo was a hard-charging bull.  The mortgage business at Merrill Lynch was an afterthought  they didnt really have a strategy, said William Dallas, the founder of Ownit Mortgage Solutions, a lending business in which Merrill bought a stake a few years ago. They had found this huge profit potential, and everybody wanted a piece of it. But they were pigs about it. Mr. Semerci and Mr. Fakahany did not return phone calls seeking comment. Bill Halldin, a Merrill Lynch spokesman, said, We see no useful purpose in responding to unnamed, former Merrill Lynch employees about a risk management process that has not existed for a year. TYPICAL of those who dealt in Wall Streets dizzying and opaque financial arrangements, Merrill ended up getting burned, former executives say, by inadequately assessing the risks it took with newfangled financial products  an error compounded when it held on to the products far too long.  The fire that Merrill was playing with was an arcane instrument known as a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. The product was an amalgam of collateralized debt obligations (the pools of loans that it bundled for investors) and credit-default swaps (which essentially are insurance that bondholders buy to protect themselves against possible defaults).  Synthetic C.D.O.s, in other words, are exemplars of a type of modern financial engineering known as derivatives. Essentially, derivatives are financial instruments that can be used to limit risk; their value is derived from underlying assets like mortgages, stocks, bonds or commodities. Stock futures, for example, are a common and relatively simple derivative.  Among the more complex derivatives, however, are the mortgage-related variety. They involve a cornucopia of exotic, jumbo-size contracts ultimately linked to real-world loans and debts. So as the housing market went sour, and borrowers defaulted on their mortgages, these contracts collapsed, too, amplifying the meltdown. The synthetic C.D.O. grew out of a structure that an elite team of J. P. Morgan bankers invented in 1997. Their goal was to reduce the risk that Morgan would lose money when it made loans to top-tier corporate borrowers like I.B.M., General Electric and Procter &amp; Gamble.  Regular C.D.O.s contain hundreds or thousands of actual loans or bonds. Synthetics, on the other hand, replace those physical bonds with a computer-generated group of credit-default swaps. Synthetics could be slapped together faster, and they generated fatter fees than regular C.D.O.s, making them especially attractive to Wall Street. Michael A. J. Farrell is chief executive of Annaly Capital Management, a real estate investment trust that manages mortgage assets. A unit of his company has liquidated billions of dollars in collateralized debt obligations for clients, and he believes that derivatives have magnified the pain of the financial collapse.  We have auctioned billions in credit-default swap positions in our C.D.O. liquidation business, Mr. Farrell said, and what we have learned is that the carnage we are witnessing now would have been much more contained, to use that overworked word, without credit-default swaps.  The bankers who invented the synthetics for J. P. Morgan say they kept only the highest-quality and most bulletproof portions of their product in-house, known as the super senior slice. They quickly sold anything riskier to firms that were willing to take on the dangers of ownership in exchange for fatter fees.   In 1997 and 1998, when we invented super senior risk, we spent a lot of time examining how much is too much to have on our books, said Blythe Masters, who was on the small team that invented the synthetic C.D.O. and is now head of commodities at JPMorgan Chase. We would warehouse risk for a period of time, but we were always focused on developing a market for whatever we did. The idea was we were financial intermediaries. We werent in the investment business. For years, the product that Ms. Masters and her colleagues invented remained just a mechanism for offloading risk in high-grade corporate lending. But as often occurs with Wall Street alchemy, a good idea started to be misused  and a product initially devised to insulate against risk soon morphed into a device that actually concentrated dangers.  This shift began in 2002, when low interest rates pushed investors to seek higher returns.  Investors said, I dont want to be in equities anymore and Im not getting any return in my bond positions,  said William T. Winters, co-chief executive of JPMorgans investment bank and a colleague of Ms. Masters on the team that invented the first synthetic. Two things happened. They took more and more leverage, and they reached for riskier asset classes. Give me yield, give me leverage, give me return.  A few years ago, of course, some of the biggest returns were being harvested in the riskier reaches of the mortgage market. As C.D.O.s and other forms of bundled mortgages were pooled nationwide, banks, investors and rating agencies all claimed that the risk of owning such packages was softened because of the broad diversity of loans in each pool. In other words, a few lemons couldnt drag down the value of the whole package.   But the risk was beneath the surface. By 2005, with the home lending mania in full swing, the amount of C.D.O.s holding opaque and risky mortgage assets far exceeded C.D.O.s composed of blue-chip corporate loans. And inside even more abstract synthetic C.D.O.s, the risk was harder to parse and much easier to overlook.   Janet Tavakoli, president of Tavakoli Structured Finance, a consulting firm in Chicago, describes synthetic C.D.O.s as a fanciful structure sort of like a unicorn born out of the imagination. More important, she said, is that the products allowed dicier assets to be passed off as higher-quality goods, giving banks and investors who traded them a false sense of security.  A lot of deals were doomed from the start, Ms. Tavakoli said. BY 2005, Merrill was in a full-on race to become the biggest mortgage player on Wall Street. A latecomer to the arena, it especially envied Lehman Brothers for the lush mortgage profits that it was already hauling in, former Merrill executives say.  Lehman had also built a mortgage assembly line that Merrill wanted to emulate. Lehman made money every step of the way: by originating mortgage loans, administering the paperwork surrounding them, and packaging them into C.D.O.s that could be sold to investors.  Eager to build its own money machine, Merrill went on a buying spree. From January 2005 to January 2007, it made 12 major purchases of residential or commercial mortgage-related companies or assets. It bought commercial properties in South Korea, Germany and Britain, a loan servicing operation in Italy and a mortgage lender in Britain. The biggest acquisition was First Franklin, a domestic subprime lender.  The firms goal, according to people w...
