If America's economy would be stimulated by more people using credit to spend money, then why are banks tightening up their credit requirements?  Why are some raising the interest rates on accounts in good standing with perfect payment histories (Bank of America)?And, why are some credit cards (specifically American Express) LOWERING the credit limits of customers who have perfect payment histories?  Don't even get me started about the banks who have recently started to put holds on account deposits for 10 days when it only takes 2 days for the check that was deposited to clear the bank it was drawn on......I love my husband dearly!  I'm glad that our personalities compliment each other - I'm extroverted where he is an introvert, I'm flighty and emotional and he's down to earth and rational.  But if he tries to semantically analyze what I SAID versus what I MEANT one more time I'm going to have to whack him upside the head! ;)I'm thinking of getting a tattoo.  Of course, I'll wait until I'm in the states and have it done there.  No sense in acquiring a disease from a bad tattoo parlor at the same time that I'm ensuring my husband can identify the body if anything bad ever happens to me.Today the store workers at the hardware store really got on my nerves.  It took almost an hour to purchase a box of 100 ft of Cat-5 cable.  Then we have a conversation like this:clerk: Are you sure you want Cat-5 cable?me: yes.clerk: What are you going to use this for?me: computer networking.clerk: Oh, OK, then you do want this one.  Do you have connectors?  You know that this is the wire only, there are no connectors on the ends.me: yes, I have connectorsclerk: Are you sure?  You have RJ45 connectors?me: YES!!  And, I have a crimping tool, too - I just ran out of cable.  Can I get the cable now?!?!? ........Then as I walked through the store with 3 items in my hand, I had no less than 15 people ask me if I would like a shopping basket.  GEEZ OH PETE - I don't need a basket to carry 3 FREAKING ITEMS!!  I'm afraid that my "No, thank you.  I'm fine." was getting a little strained after the first 5 or so of those questions.  And then to top it off, the bag boys were incredulous that I was going to walk and carry the box of cable all by myself!  I asked them to wrap the box with the plastic they use here to make a handle for carrying large items:bagboy: That's not necessary, ma'am, I'm going to carry it for you.me: No.  I'm walking.  I'll be carrying it myself.bagboy: That's OK, Ma'am.  I'll take it to your car for you.me: I don't have a car.  I'm walking.  I'm walking a long way - you don't want to carry this for me.bagboy: Will you take a taxi then?me: NO.  I'm walking.  It's good exercise.bagboy: But this is heavy ma'am.me: It's OK, I"ll be fine.  It's good exercise.bagboy: Are you sure I can't carry this for you to where you are going?me: I'm sure, unless you'd like to walk all the way to _________ village!bagboy: You're walking THAT far?!?! ...I mean, what is it with people today?  Is it really that unbelievable that someone might walk a couple miles on their own two feet?  And, incidentally, I survived carrying the box of cable all the way through Glorietta Mall, into Greenbelt mall, to the Meditereanian Cafe where I purchased carry out for dinner, and then out to the taxi line with all my bags, and dinner.  I would have walked home, but the food would have gotten too cold, so I was lazy and took a taxi.  The bagboy still would not have wanted to carry that cable through two malls for me! 
