Calcutta: Cricket Australia s National Selection Panel (NSP) on Tuesday advised Australian vice-captain Michael Clarke and fast bowler Nathan Bracken will return from injury to join the Australian squad for the next two Commonwealth Bank Series games against South Africa and New Zealand in Perth.  THE SQUAD  Ricky Ponting (captain), Michael Clarke (vice-captain), Nathan Bracken, Brad Haddin, Ben Hilfenhaus, James Hopes, David Hussey, Michael Hussey, Mitchell Johnson, Shaun Marsh, Shaun Tait, David Warner, Cameron White.  Andrew hearing  Calcutta: Cricket Australia (CA) has reported Andrew Symonds for a CA code of behaviour breach following his objectionable comment about New Zealand and New South Wales cricketer Brendon McCullum last Friday.  A CA code of behaviour hearing presided over by CA code of conduct senior commissioner Gordon Lewis will be held at CAs offices in Melbourne at noon on Thursday.  T20 on Everest  London: Two teams of cricket-mad Britons led by Richard Kirtley Tuesday vowed to take the sport to new heights by playing on Mount Everest in the worlds highest-ever match.  The two teams are to make a nine-day expedition in April to Gorak Shep, a plateau 5,165 metres above sea level near the Everest base camp, for the record-breaking Twenty20 charity game.  Jaffer honour  New Delhi: Mumbai skipper Wasim Jaffer was adjudged as the cricketer of the year, while late Ashok Mankad was posthumously conferred with lifetime achievement award as a part of the CEAT Cricket Rating (CCR) Domestic awards 2009 on Tuesday.  Cheteshwar Pujara from Saurashtra received the batsman of the year award. Mumbais Dhawal Kulkarni bagged the bowler of the year award and Saurav Netravalkar from Mumbai was adjudged as the under-19 cricketer of the year.  Robinho fine  London: Brazil forward Robinho will be fined for leaving Manchester Citys training camp in Tenerife last week, team manager Mark Hughes said on Tuesday. The clubs 32 million British record signing left the camp without permission to visit Brazil. London: West Bromwich Albion captain Jonathan Greening will be out for up to six weeks with a knee injury, the Premier League club said on their website.  Kenwyne signs  London: Sunderland and Trinidad and Tobago striker Kenwyne Jones has signed a deal keeping him there until 2013, the Premier League club said on their website
