A resolute Ricky Ponting has challenged his batsmen to step up after his side surrendered game three of the Commonwealth Bank Series against South Africa on Friday.  Man-of-the-moment David Warner (69) exploded in the early stages of the match as he and opening partner Shaun Marsh (43) combined for 114 runs at the top of the order to leave the hosts eyeing a score well above 300.  But as has been the case all series, the Australians failed to post a massive total and Ponting wants answers.  'We had more than capable guys out there today that were going to be good enough to get us around that 300 mark and we didn't get there.' Ponting said.  'We need to work out why we're not doing that, what is it that's costing us those 30 or 40 runs every time we go out there to bat?'  'So we need to look at that and not just talk about it do it  actions always speak louder than words do.'  Clearly unhappy with the performance of the top-order, the skipper conceded poor fielding - including two dropped catches in the opening over of the Proteas run-chase - also didn't help the cause.  'Lots of mistakes in our game today whether it be with the bat where we didn't capitalise on partnerships or dropping catches early on,' he said.  'We dropped Gibbs I think first or second ball and he ended up hitting 60 odd off 50 balls so a couple of mistakes from us were probably the difference in the game.'  In contrast, man-of-the-match Albie Morkel made the most of his opportunities smashing 40 off 22 deliveries with the match hanging in the balance, to hand his side a 2-1 series lead.  'He's one of the few guys in the world that can just walk straight in and hit the ball quite big, so that's a big bonus for us,' Proteas skipper Johan Botha said of Morkel.  Indeed, Morkel wasted no time imposing his will on the contest smashing 14 runs form the first over he faced.  But while it looked easy, the 27-year-old concedes insists his stomach was churning when he walked out to bat.  'I think you're always nervous before you go out and bat, especially if you no you have to go out and win the game,' Morkel said.  'But once again we knew we had the powerplay still to come and like we said in the previous games that can go for plenty.'  'Luckily myself and (Mark) Boucher were in there and we were both hitting the ball quite well.'  Ponting conceded his bowlers were powerless to stop the dynamic all-rounder with the match on the line, despite extensive pre-match planning.  'We know what he's capable of, we know where he hits but unfortunately he hits them 30 and 40 rows back and not to our fielders that we put out there,' he said.  'He's very dangerous, I thought we controlled him very well in Hobart, we didn't let him get away from us down there, but tonight was a different story.'  'We bowled a few into his zone that he got over the top and there were a few others that skewed off the inside or outside edges that went for boundaries as well.'  
