         OCTOBER 22, 2008, 3:33 P.M. ET Pain of Crisis Spreads Across East Europe By MARCUS WALKERArticle  BUDAPEST -- The global financial crisis is sending a deep chill across Europe's former Communist East and other countries on old Europe's periphery that rely on borrowing from abroad to fuel their emerging economies.Even as Western Europe starts to believe the worst of its banking crisis may be over thanks to massive government rescues, the region's poorer neighbors -- which can't afford to pump tens of billions of euros into their banks -- are losing access to the foreign credit that has propelled growth, setting back their dream of catching up with Western living standards. ReutersA man cleans the window of a currency exchange in Budapest October 22, 2008.Hungary is the latest example of an economy on the brink. Its central bank hiked interest rates by three percentage points Wednesday in an emergency measure to pull its currency out of a tailspin -- a clear sign that the global financial crisis is hitting the real economy and threatening even more pain.Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsny said there was "very strong speculative pressure" against the national currency, the forint. The central bank hiked its key lending rate to 11.5% from 8.5% to try to make holding forints more attractive.But the rising cost of borrowing is threatening to choke Hungary's businesses and consumers, risking the sharpest economic slump since the early 1990s aftermath of Communism's collapse."We are all hoping for a miracle," says Zsolt Zelei, a Budapest used-car dealer as he inspects rows of repossessed cars up for auction at a derelict, Communist-era factory complex. As the auction proceeds, dealers bid as little as 250,000 forints ($1,172) for used Volkswagens and Suzukis, fearing they won't be able to sell them for much more this winter.Pain is spreading elsewhere too.Estonia is headed for a two-year recession and won't grow again until 2010, its central bank warned Wednesday, a far cry from the Baltic nation's roaring growth of over 10% until 2006.Ukraine's government said Wednesday it hopes to get a large loan from the International Monetary Fund next week. Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko told reporters the country needed IMF funds to strengthen its foreign-currency reserves and its banks' capital. Ukraine's currency, the hryvnia, has plunged against the euro this month. Meanwhile Belarus said on Wednesday it too has asked the IMF for a loan to prop up its economy.Even previously stable currencies in Europe's East, such as the Polish zloty and Czech koruna, are under pressure amid investors' world-wide flight from emerging markets into safe assets such as U.S. Treasury bonds.Turkey's central bank on Wednesday balked at following Hungary in raising interest rates to arrest a slide in the Turkish lira. But investors are growing increasingly concerned about the nation's to keep up with its large foreign borrowing needs.The tool of higher interest rates alone probably won't be enough to restore confidence in Hungary, economists said.Hungary's government, banks and companies need to repay or replace about 27 billion ($35.27 billion) of debt to foreigners that falls due in the next 12 months. But the country's foreign-exchange reserves only come to about 17 billion, according to a report by Barclays Capital in London. That could force Hungary to ask the IMF or the European Union for funds, the report said.Mr. Gyurcsany, the prime minister, said Wednesday the country was still in talks with the IMF. The IMF offered Hungary help last week, but Hungary said that would be a last resort. Hungary already secured a 5 billion loan from the European Central Bank to help its own banks raise foreign-currency funds.The growing queue of countries at the IMF's door -- which beyond Europe also includes Pakistan as of Wednesday -- is reviving the importance of the Washington-based fund, which seemed to be drifting into irrelevance in recent years as private-sector credit flowed cheaply around the world. The IMF's power was last high during the 1990s, when it bailed out indebted countries from Mexico to Southeast Asia, often imposing tough and unpopular budget cuts on governments. It could soon be just as deeply involved around Eastern Europe.Unlike in Western Europe, the main threat in Europe's east isn't that its banks could fall like dominoes: the region has few banks of its own. Most Eastern European banks are subsidiaries of large Western banking groups that, supported now by their home governments, are unlikely to let their Eastern units go bust."It is hardly imaginable that Citigroup would let down Citibank in Hungary," says Peter Felcsuti, head of Raiffeisen Bank, the Hungarian subsidiary of Austrian-based Raiffeisen Zentralbank. Even when lending between European banks has frozen totally of late, Mr. Felcsuti says he could still borrow funds from his parent company in Vienna.Local banks that don't have a Western parent, such as Hungary's OTP, could seriously stretch their governments' finances if they need bailouts, economists say. Hungary's public debt is already about 66% of gross domestic product, among the highest levels in the region.Foreign banks that invested in Eastern Europe have made a long-term bet: Countries such as Hungary will raise their living standards up to Western levels and join the euro zone eventually. Over recent years, their currencies have tended to rise in value, boosting the value of local investments and making it affordable for locals to borrow in euros or Swiss francs.But many lenders didn't reckon with a crisis such as today's, when currencies such as the forint fall and locals struggle to make rising monthly payments.Like other international banks that invested in Hungary, Raiffeisen's business is set to be a lot less lucrative next year than it has been in recent times. Mr. Felcsuti says his unit will still turn a profit, even if loan losses double.But even if banks survive intact, other businesses and consumers are headed for trouble. Falling local currencies will leave firms and people in countries such as Hungary, Turkey and Romania strapped for cash because many have borrowed heavily in euros, Swiss francs and other foreign currencies.In Hungary, banks are already cutting back credit for small businesses and consumer purchases such as cars, fearing that debtors could struggle to repay as the economy sours.Car buyers can no longer get 100% finance on new or used vehicles. They now need big down payments now, says Tamas Devenyi, whose company offers car-purchase loans.The new-car industry in Hungary, as elsewhere in Central Europe, is feeling the blues for a different reason: Car makers built factories in the region to save on wages and sell to Europe's west.But now car purchases in Western Europe are slumping.Edith Balazs and Margit Feher contributed to this article.Write to Marcus Walker at marcus.walker@wsj.comCopyright 2008 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. All Rights ReservedThis copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visitwww.djreprints.com           
