China's "Roach Motel" - you can check-in but you can't check-out. http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e65c83f6-cd45-11dd-9905-000077b07658.html?nclick_check=1 Bank of America shelves $3bn plan to cut China Construction Bank stake Financial Times -- By Sundeep Tucker in Hong Kong and Jamil Anderlini in Beijing -- December 19 2008 14:24 Bank of America has shelved a $3bn (2.1bn) sale of China Construction Bank stock following objections from Beijing, igniting fears that some cash-strapped overseas investors could struggle to offload their lucrative holdings in the countrys banks. The US bank, which in 2005 was part of a wave of foreign investment into Chinese banks, last week hired UBS to help sell a chunk of Hong Kong-listed shares to reduce its overall holding in CCB to less than 17 per cent. The offer was priced at a discount of 15 per cent to CCBs current share price and was quickly covered by US and European institutional investors, said people familiar with the matter. However, only hours before it was due to be unveiled on Monday morning, the share sale was pulled on the instructions of Ken Lewis, BofA chairman and chief executive, following a phone call with Guo Shuqing, his CCB counterpart, according to people familiar with the situation. The precise reason for the 11th-hour abandonment remains unclear, but dealmakers in the region believe that the Chinese government was unhappy about the timing of the share sale, the first such attempted divestment by a foreign investor following the expiry of a lock-in period. The share sale could have triggered a fall in CCBs share price just as Beijing is trying to garner support for its largest banks and arrest a stock market slide. Foreign financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, Dresdner Bank, Temasek and Royal Bank of Scotland, hold shares in Chinas leading banks worth billions of dollars and analysts say they could be tempted to sell down stakes to raise capital when their three-year lock-in periods start to expire from next month. Bank of America cancelling those trades has made the other foreigners realise they dont exit at their discretion; they exit at the discretion of the Chinese government, said one Asian dealmaker who asked not to be identified. The Chinese government cannot prevent trading of Hong Kong-listed shares, but dealmakers said it was likely that BofA was warned of repercussions to its future business on the mainland if it carried out the sale. UBS declined to comment. BofA told the Financial Times it had not sold any CCB shares. Scott Silvestri, spokesman for the bank, said on Friday: There was no expression of concern from the Chinese government. CCB said: Our co-operation [with BofA] is long-term. Whatever price or time BofA raises or reduces its holding is up to the market. BofA raised its stake in CCB from 10.75 per cent to 19.13 per cent by exercising a call option at the end of November. Most analysts saw that as a prelude to selling shares it had acquired three years ago at about HK$1.15 a share. CCBs shares closed on Thursday at HK$4.63. RBS, which was recently rescued by the UK government, holds a 4.3 per cent stake in Bank of China that could raise more than $2bn if sold after the lock-in period expires this month. Goldman Sachs owns 5 per cent of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, while Temasek holds stakes in Bank of China and CCB.
