Goldman Sachs Shares Morgan Stanleys Pain as Prospects Darken By Christine Harper Dec. 15 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley may find that cutting more than 11,500 jobs, eliminating executive bonuses and reining in risk wont help shareholders enough as the companies face another year of slumping revenue. The Wall Street that the two New York-based firms dominated for decades vanished in September, when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. sold itself to Bank of America Corp. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley became banks and took $10 billion each from the U.S. government. Reversing their revenue slide next year will be difficult as the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression limits demand for investment banking services. Theres a more radical change in financial institutions today than there was in the early 1930s, said David Dreman, 72, chairman and chief investment officer of Dreman Value Management LLC, which oversees about $11 billion and doesnt own shares of Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley. This isnt an environment for risk-taking, which means the investment bankers are going to have major problems for a while. The two firms probably will report fourth-quarter losses this week on shrinking asset values and a decline in fees for businesses ranging from providing merger advice to trading and asset management, according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The loss at Goldman Sachs may be $3.50 a share, the first since the firm went public in 1999. Morgan Stanley probably will report a loss of 19 cents a share, analysts estimate. Executives at the firms declined to comment. No Revenue Growth While the average estimate of analysts is for revenue growth at both companies next year, investors are giving little credit to those predictions. Analysts tend to change their estimates as the year progresses, and they rarely prove accurate. In the third quarter, Goldman Sachss revenue fell 4.1 percent below the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, while Morgan Stanleys was 25 percent higher. Youre not going to see revenue growth for three years, said Michael Farr, president of Washington-based Farr, Miller &amp; Washington LLC, which manages $500 million and holds Goldman Sachs shares. Everyones very eager to have it behind us and think about how sunny its going to be, but the contraction isnt done. Its premature. While Michael Aronstein, chief investment strategist at Oscar Gruss &amp; Son, a closely held broker-dealer in New York, foresees a stock market recovery in 2009, he doesnt expect the big investment banks to benefit. Thats because their reputations have been blemished, he says, and theyre weighed down with illiquid debt securities such as collateralized debt obligations and leveraged loans that have been losing value. Disastrous Year http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601087&amp;sid=a5K1c5FB7GRE&amp;refer=home
