The bull case for Allied Irish Banks CAPS member yzfinance starts us off, writing: "From a value point of view, [Allied Irish] is selling for far less than reported book value even with a fairly big margin of safety. Yes, it has taken hits like a lot of other banks with non-performing loans. Yes, they even cut their dividends, at least until next year. However, they do own a significant portion of M&amp;T Bank (NYSE: MTB), enough to cover almost all of their market value. What's the deal with that? If anything, this bank is [run] by management that at least knows the effect of shareholder dilutions, and is diversified enough to survive through this crisis." GorillaGorilla added at the beginning of the month that Allied Irish: "has no toxic loans. It has, as is the normal, under performing loans but nothing undue for the sector. The main issue is that the Irish Government is asking for more liquidity. It has around 1.5-2 billion in a US bank which it could sell to get more cash. It has cut it's dividends to 0. ... when Irish economy stabilizes ... I imagine it can hold a higher P/E than 1.15. Not least because the other Irish competitors have shot themselves in the foot; Bank of Ireland say." A 1.15 P/E, you say? According to CAPS All-Star mrindependent, that means that not only is Allied Irish: "supposedly well run ... it is very, very cheap. In addition, it seems to enjoy government backing-- a prerequisite in today's financial world." In fact, in just the few days since mrindependent penned those words, Allied Irish's stock has gone from "very, very cheap" to "ridiculously cheap." The stock sells for -- better sit down for this -- less than the bank earned last year. The P/E sits at an unfathomably low 0.76, the price-to-tangible book value at an equally incredible 0.2 ratio. Allied Irish also continues to earn entirely respectable returns on equity of 20.6% and returns on assets of 1.1% in the trailing-12-month period. The logical conclusion of all these numbers: Investors don't trust them, and have little faith that Allied Irish will survive the current financial crisis. Whether that means the bank winds up as terminally dead as Bear Stearns or Lehman Bros., or just mostly dead like Fannie Mae (NYSE: FNM) or Freddie Mac (NYSE: FRE), few investors care to wait around to find out. Time to chime in Every number I look at tells me that Allied Irish is a screaming buy. Yet GorillaGorilla assures us that we cannot depend on dividend income to tide us over until the market agrees with that assessment, and Wall Street bankers -- who should know better than the average investor how good a bet a bank usually is -- are running scared. Add in the fact that over the weekend, the Irish government announced it is injecting capital into the bank, and personally, I haven't a clue which way things are going to go from here. But maybe you do? If you've got insight into Allied Irish Banks' prospects, then here's your chance to show off. Click on over to CAPS right now, and tell us why AIB's a buy.
