The SEC and Treasury should be working around the clock to investigate whether Madoff colluded with other financial institutions and whether there is massive fraud in the financial markets yet to be detected. The options market could not have absorbed the volume of trading Bernie claimed he was doing. He didn't conduct a regularly scheduled selloff of his equity position at a profit and he didn't buy treasury bills at $20 billion a clip. On paper, Madoff competed with Goldman Sachs. Ask Secretary Paulson for a copy of the memo on Bernie's operations prepared by the GS research department when he was chairman. (I am beginning to wonder if Secretary Paulson created TALF ( the Term Asset-backed Securities Loan Facility) to bail out other bankrupt hedge funds.) Check out FINRA's very useful tool,the BrokerCheck. Search brokerage firms for "Madoff" and click "View Full Report" in the right hand corner. Bernard L. Madoff Investments Securities was sanctioned and fined $25k on 8/27/08 by FINRA for not disclosing information about short sales. In February 2008, BMIS was fined $25k for not disclosing customer limits. Someone at FINRA was keeping an eye on Bernie's business in 2008. Why? Other than being sanctioned for non-disclosure in 2005, Bernie's FINRA record has been clean since 1963. Walter Noel's hedge fund, Fairchild Greenwich, invested $7 billion with Bernie. According to the fund's financial statements audited by PriceWaterhouseCooper, Bank of America was custodian of the funds but the bank apparently gave the $7 billion to Bernie. This is so wrong on so many levels. No one even knows whether $7 billion ever made it into Bernie's bank account in the first place. According to a 12/18/05 SEC complaint, Bernie's firm had two bank accounts at JPMorgan Chase and three at Bank of America Mellon. What about his personal accounts and his personal holdings in London? A lot of people can be persuaded to look the other way for a few million dollars including the staff at the SEC.
