 LONDON, July 17 (Reuters) - Britain&amp;#039;s blue-chip index rose 2.2 percent at midday on Thursday, as banking shares spiked after results from JPMorgan (JPM.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) eased worries about a credit crisis, and weaker crude prices lowered inflation concerns.  By 1117 GMT, the commodity-heavy FTSE 100 .FTSE was up 113.9 points at 5,264.5, after closing down 0.4 percent on Wednesday, when it hit a three-year low.  Banks were in demand, with the sector topping the UK benchmark index, after unexpectedly strong results from Wells Fargo (WFC.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) lifted the U.S. stock market over 2 percent on Wednesday -- the best day for banks in 16 years.  ...  &amp;quot;We still have got big figures to come,&amp;quot; said Keith Bowman, equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, adding the market was waiting to see how other big banks perform.  &amp;quot;There is room for further writedowns and that would keep some investors on the sidelines for the time being. The market is likely to remain volatile,&amp;quot; he added.  Analysts said the results might set the direction for British stocks, which have fallen sharply in the past sessions on negative sentiment and poor outlook. The FTSE 100 index has fallen 18.6 percent so far this year, against an average annual gain of more than 10 percent in the previous five years.  Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) led the banks higher, with a jump of nearly 10 percent, while Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), HSBC (HSBA.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Lloyds TSB (LLOY.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Standard Chartered (STAN.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) rose between 5 and 9.4 percent.  ...  &amp;quot;It&amp;#039;s a relief rally for banks,&amp;quot; said Peter Dixon, UK economist at Commerzbank.  &amp;quot;But I think investors will be cautious under these kind of circumstances as all the factors, which were in place a week or two ago, are still there,&amp;quot; he said, adding the markets have been sliding almost since May and these rallies might be temporary.  /...  http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idCAL1761094...   
