             I will start off by saying that the blog written Friday was written Thursday night between 8:30 and 9:00 PM, as I was watching the BCS National Championship Game between Flordia and Oklahoma in Miami. For the last two blogs that have been written and postedon my blog. They are not reflecting the actual time and date that I am writing and posting them.So I am going to write a disclaimer in each of my blogs with actual event on TV that are most likely not to be replayed.I will do all I can to time stamp my comments at the time they are actually written, so I can keep you informed on my market predictions and action in real time. This is my warm up edition to what is about to come next tonight Saturday December 10, 2009. I am writing this blog as I watch the Monk Marathon on The USA Network. The show now playing as about a woman who died in the elevator as she was going back to her apartment to get some ticket for an event she was suppose to attend.It is 8:45PM CST and I am well rested to write the blog of the week here on my page. In the blog that will follow this warm up will detail all my tradign activity plans for next week. I will make a series of predicitons followed by my trading strategies to capitialize on what I think will occur next week in the markets.I now have a Million Dollar Portfolio as my shorts are bringing me some relief in the market for 2009. If you go back and look at my trades that I told you to look out for on Friday, you will see that I went 7 for 7. The picks I listed were all short positions and I only listed seven because I was to tired to list my entire porfolio.I will quickly recap what my trades for Friday were. I was short on Bank of America(BAC), ConocoPhillips(COP), Chervon(CVX), ExxonMobil(XOM), Orexigen Therapeutics(OREX), Sony(SNE), and The UltraShort Yen ProShares(YCS).I went 7 for 7 Friday on my actual picks and real holdings as I only recommmend stocks that I own or plan to own long or short. Let me talk about my favorite two holdings in this short seven positions and they are The YCS and SNE. I was using these two as a hedge against one another and here was my plan. I went short on The Bear Yen ETF YCS betting that the JPY would rise against the USD and boy Did I hit a HomeRun there.Here is where my hedge in the two pairs is located. Last week while doing my research, I came across an arguement in fovor of shorting Sony(SNE) solely on concerns of a weakening JPY/USD translation that would impact Sony's balance sheet thus driving the stock down. I agreed with that arguement that the JPY would trade lower to the USD but I was not so sure. I wanted to short Sony(SNE), but I wanted a hedge just in case the stock rised if the JPY/USD got stronger instead of weaker.So I concluded that I would short Sony(SNE) and Short The UltraShort YEN ProShare(YCS) as a hedge since I was shorting Sonyfor currency translation reasons. So if my shorted shares inSony lost valuse as the stock traded higher, then my short position in The YSC should make money as that ETF trades to the downside because the YEN is gaining value over theUSD.Well, on Friday, Both shares moved up for me as I was short on both names The YCS and SNE. Sony shares fellalmost 2.75% in friday trading day while The YCS fell1.90% on the same day. Well, it is time for me to go and write the blog of the week here on my page, as I reveal my entire trading strategy for the next trading week. The trading week will begin on Monday January 12, 2009 with Alcoa(AA) reporting earnings after the bell and this will probably set the tone in the market for the next several trading sessions. Let me go on and write my predicitions and trades for next week Starting Monday January 12, 2009 Take care and come back for the meat and potato's!         
