"I think we are now inexorably heading towards taking over the balance sheets of the big beasts," said Justin Urquhart Stewart, of Seven Investment Management.Traditional nationalization happens when the government acquires all the share capital of a bank. What we are seeing in both the US and the UK is the strange spectacle of politicians jumping through hoops in order to avoid any suggestion that they are in fact nationalizing the major banks in both countries. To admit nationalization is to admit socialism, which these politicians see as the kiss of death (even the Labour Party in power in Britain is reluctant to fess up to its nationalization policies).So what we are seeing is a kind of back door nationalization: the governments in both countries are taking steps to acquire bad or toxic assets (and so passing the risks of these assets on to taxpayers), injecting capital in the form of loans and preferred stock, and regulating how the banks pay executives, pay dividends, and make loans.The U.S. governments decision to pledge billions of additional dollars with strings attached to Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. may be nationalization by another name, according to former bankers and regulators It may not be de jure nationalization but I think its de facto nationalization.Lets face it: if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, then the chances are pretty good that it is a duck.Why is this happening?There are two main reasons.First, the idea of leverage. This is a simple concept. The banks have been allowed by law to borrow enormous amounts of money (by taking in deposits, for example) even though they have very little shareholders capital. If every $1 of capital you have allows you to borrow $10 or $15 or $20 of debt and then lend that debt to customers so that you can earn interest on it, then you are highly leveraged. Your one dollar of capital enables you to lever your debt up to ten or twenty times. Its an easy way to make money, because you have so many assets working for that little bit of capital you invested.But there is a risk. If only a small portion of your assets (your loans to customers, such as the mortgages you made) go sour, then your small amount of capital can be wiped out very easily. If you have only $1 of capital, and a mere 5% of your $20 assets (that is, $1) become bad debts, then your capital is wiped out.The reason banks can use such high leverage is because there is an implicit guarantee by the government that it will, at any cost, stand behind the stability of the banking industry. This amounts to a moral guarantee by the government of its banks; in times of distress, like now, these moral guarantees very quickly are translated into legal guarantees when the governments take steps to support the banks (by buying toxic assets, injecting capital, insuring (that is, guaranteeing) bank deposits etc.The second reason why this is happening is because the overwhelming bulk of politicians, academics and commentators in the world have underestimated the seriousness of the economic tsunami which has struck the world in the past 12 months. Time after time, these wise men have pronounced that things are stabilizing, that this or that fix is the one that will work.And yet the tsunami keeps coming in. Bad debt increases alarmingly fast. The supply of and demand for credit drops, as ordinary people, faced with losing their jobs, their homes and their livelihood, stop borrowing to buy more goods.We really aint seen nothin yet.Makes you wonder why our Canadian MPs would even think of supporting the Harper government next week when it asks them to vote confidence in the way they have been, are and will be governing Canada.After all, how can you be confident in a man who denies that there is a storm, even when a hurricane is raging around him?
