Interesting Article (Read bold/underlined) Piped Aboard Liz Moyer, 12.09.05, 10:00 AM ET New York - Mutual funds are chasing hedge funds into PIPEs, as one of the hot investment angles of the old dot-com-boom era goes legit. More money has been raised by so-called private investments in public entities (or PIPEs) so far this year than anytime since their 2000 peak, according to Placement Tracker, a unit of Sagient Research Systems. Some $18.5 billion worth of PIPE deals have been done so far, compared with $15.6 billion for all of last year, according to Placement Tracker. In the dot-com meltdown of 2000, $24 billion was raised for PIPE deals. In fact, if the first week of December is any indication, there may be an even madder dash to the finish line for the rest of the year. There were three deals on Thursday alone, raising another $82 million. While the natural inclination is to think hedge funds are behind the demand, it is mutual funds that are finding the PIPEs market suddenly the most attractive. So far this year, they account for 22.4% of PIPE investors, according to Placement Tracker, up from 9.4% last year. Hedge funds, meanwhile, have slipped from 51.7% of the market last year to 37.3% so far this year. Securing private investments in their stock used to be the desperate measure of cash-strapped dot-coms teetering on the abyss. But if this year's numbers are any indication, the tarnish is off. These deals are usually arranged by companies in reverse-merger situations or by young public companies that want to raise cash right after an initial public offering. Now, increasingly, larger companies are viewing them as a quicker and cheaper alternative to filing a secondary registered-stock offering. And the presence of larger companies in the market is probably what accounts for the presence of mutual fund investors. Of course mutual fund interest is probably also stoked by the opportunity to amass a sizable position in a small-cap stock without tipping off the market. The way most deals are arranged, investors get stock or convertible debt at a fixed price that is lower than the market price. The deals are arranged by placement agents in secret and only registered after the fact. "An advantage of a PIPE is that an institutional investor can take a large position in an illiquid stock," said Byron Roth, chairman of Roth Capital Partners, which raised the most money in PIPE deals last year. And in the sense that mutual funds might be chasing hedge funds in the quest for better returns, PIPEs are thought to be one of the few markets the money is being made. "PIPEs are one of the only hedge strategies that are working," says Brian Overstreet, head of Placement Tracker. This year's biggest example is the $880 million convertible-bond deal that Level 3 Communications closed in February. Level 3 is a telecom technology firm with a $2 billion market capitalization. Investors included four big mutual fund managers, Southeastern Asset Management, Davis Selected Advisors, Legg Mason and Torray Companies; two insurance companies, Fairfax Financial Holdings and Market Corp.; and MSD Capital, a diversified fund set up solely for the purpose of managing money for Michael Dell and his family. Hedge funds are still active at the smaller end of the market. In April, a $408 million convertible preferred stock deal by Motient attracted the usual collection of big hedge funds (19 in all), including names like Millennium Partners and Eton Park. Ditto for PXRE's $375 million convertible preferred stock deal in September, which had 12 investor hedge funds, including Eton, SAB and DE Shaw. Motient is a $1.3 billion wireless services companies, while PXRE is a $359 million reinsurer. What's also changed are the names at the top of the agent rankings. Where traditionally boutique firms that specialize in this kind of investment have dominated, the big bulge bracket firms have started to elbow in. For all of 2004, boutiques, like Roth Capital, Rodman &amp; Renshaw and Tejas Securities, were at the top of the charts in terms of dollar amounts raised for clients. Bank of America and SG Cowan rounded out the top five. In the third quarter, the top five agents in terms of dollars raised for PIPE transactions looked a lot more like old-line Wall Street: Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, Lehman and UBS were first through fourth. Leerink Swann &amp; Co. was fifth. That's where all the fees are anyway. Agents placing PIPE deals get 6% to 7% as well as warrants to buy shares in the future. "Every major firm has a dedicated PIPE effort," Overstreet says. But that still won't leave the boutique firms as wallflowers. They believe that the costs of secondary stock offerings (and the time involved for regulatory review and filing) will drive more companies to the PIPE market in the future. Ultimately, there'll be more than enough business to go around. "As the market continues to become more efficient, more companies will choose to do a PIPE," Roth says.
