      The Disasters Ahead  What happens if Russia's and China's economies and governments lose their footing?   http://www.newsweek.com/id/184306?from=rss    European finance ministers to attack Alistair Darling over sterling's slide European finance ministers are planning to round on Alistair Darling and tell him to bring the pound back under control, in what  many fear could represent the opening salvo of a "currency war".   http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/economi...ings-slide.html    High debt levels endanger Britain's AAA credit rating for first time   http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/comment...first-time.html     QUOTE    Moody's said the UK and the US would see their ratings come under strain "because of a shock to their growth model and large contingent liabilities". Both countries have relied heavily on unsustainable credit booms to fuel growth, but Britain faces added difficulties as a hub of global finance at a time when banks are out of favour. The economic fall-out from this broken model may cause "lasting impairment", making it harder for both the US and UK governments to raise the tax revenues needed to restore health to public finances. Britain in particular will be watched to see if it can adjust to a "post-crisis world order".  Moody's said the US "exhibits an unrivalled capacity for innovation" and is likely to bounce back quickly. The UK has seen more slippage but still has an "adequate reaction capacity to rise to the challenge".     Eastern Europe: On Crisis Watch  http://www.rgemonitor.com/euro-monitor/255...on_crisis_watch    my comment to Eastern Europe tensions: Poland is next in the line because all countries on the list are already down. If Poland hold, nothing will happen to Czech etc. Now, speculators attack Polish Z&#322;oty (PLN - zloty). Check this huge moves!!!  USDPLN     CHFPLN (the most common for mortgage in Poland) but thanks to low LIBOR the rates are almost the same.    EURPLN     more over there is a HUGE affair in Poland. Bank in Poland (80% are from foreign countries) sold options to hedge exporters/importers from swings. Unfortunately there were many speculators (this firms) + they were VERY!!! risky. WHY?? Check the graph above - Because PLN was going stronger and stronger since 2002 everyone was counting on much stronger PLN. The options were sold by JPM and MS (distributed by bank foreign bank in Poland like ING group, Fortis, AIG, Santander, Citibank, GE money bank,etc). Now, many polish well know firms are going bankrupt because they were on the one side of the swing - (strong PLN). How??? they were greedy and instread of hedging they bet on one side (selling many calls, that gives them cheaper puts, like 4 calls  to one put) Everyone want to crucify JPM&amp;MS. They even come to Poland for the discussion with Prime Minister (JPM&amp;MS europe CEO)  Well, Firms claims that they didn't know about the risk buhahahah But when they earn money (stron PLN since 2002) noone complain. They were firms like/aka Porsche making 300% of profit based on currencies, not based on selling product. Now there is a MESS...                               
