Australia cricket captain Ricky Ponting has stressed the importance of today's one dayer against New Zealand as his side fights to save the series and raise money for Victoria's bushfire victims.   A fundraising appeal will be held during the match, co-ordinated by Cricket Australia and its partners Channel 9 and the Commonwealth Bank.   Ponting said the disaster had impacted all of Australia and along with his team-mates, he wanted to do anything he could to help.   CA has already kicked off the appeal with a $100,000 donation, while the South Australia Cricket Association has contributed $25,000.   Sutherland said cricket fans could make their own contributions during the coverage of the game in Adelaide, where New Zealand captain Daniel Vettori won the toss and elected to bat first.   Proceeds from ticket sales will also go to the fund and players will again wear black armbands as they did during Sunday's match at the SCG. 'I think it's an opportune moment for us,' Sutherland said on Monday. 'It's a really important game for the Australian cricket team, 2-1 down in the Chappel-Hadley Series, but it's a great opportunity for cricket to be used as a vehicle to make a contribution. 'It's a gesture of support and assistance and hopefully whatever we can raise will go to what is a very, very worthwhile and significant cause.' Sutherland said the money for bushfire victims to be contributed from ticket sales would include the share normally paid to players. 'The share of that money that would ordinarily have gone to the players through our collective bargaining agreement is going to be donated by the players,' Sutherland said. 'As I understand, on top of that the players are considering what other things they might be able to do to make a contribution.' Australian allrounder and Victorian captain Cameron White said the fires had affected his family. 'My mum lives in Traralgon. Her sister unfortunately had three of her closest friends pass yesterday,' he told reporters in Adelaide. 'I don't want to go into any of the details but it is a very sad time and to have someone I know affected by the fires is not great.' White said the team had been preoccupied by television news reports on the fires during much of their match against New Zealand in Sydney on Sunday evening. 'Pretty much the whole way through the game we had the tele switching between the cricket and the news really,' he said. 'I was almost watching more of the news to be honest. 'So in terms of a victory it was pretty subdued, it was nice to win but at the same time we understand there are people out there not in a great place at the moment.' A significant percentage of Australia's first-class cricketers hail from rural areas, which explains the depth of feeling within the national side over the plight of country Victoria. 'I'm glad the Australian team is in a position to do their part and help out the best they can to the bushfire appeal and to the people who are affected,' said White. The Commonwealth Bank will donate $1 million, as well as an additional $100 for every run scored and $5,000 for each six hit during the match.   Australia's players have also agreed to donate all their match fees from the fixture to the bushfire appeal.   The team playing shirts from the final game of the New Zealand series, in Brisbane on Friday, will be put to auction in another effort to raise money for aid and assistance.   Anyone wishing to contribute can do so at www.cricket.com.au/bushfireappeal or by phoning 1800 811 700. 
