Khaleej Times Online&gt;&gt; News &gt;&gt; SPORTS  DUBAI  Three cheers for Key Influence Communication for holding the First KIC Cricket Vaganza 09 in a befitting manner as this was a bold decision when times are tough and a wait and see approach is prevailing globally. The tournament was well conceived and well orchestrated with other fun filled activities for all participants and families, a press release said.  The winner of the tournament was Khaleej Times, while Media Edge were the runners-up.  The best batsman and the best fielder prizes were won by Romesh and Mohammed Suleman of Khaleej Times, while the player of the tournament and the best bowler prizes were won by Nelson and Gaurav of Media Edge. All the matches were well contested and both the semifinals and the finals were real thrillers with Khaleej Times emerging winners because of their all round performances.  LG Electronics proved that it truly believes in healthy and engaging activities be it Cricket World Cup or competitions between Corporates. LG Electronics participated as the Lead sponsor and also nominated its team in the tournament. KIC Cricket Vaganza was made more exciting with ingredients of other games like Kick of Life and Wicket Taker with lucky draws and gifts to bring smiles and happiness for the teams . Malabar Gold, Liali Jewellery, Aesthetica Clinic, ARY Jewellery, Jeevan TV, Al Ghurair Foods, Garden Resturant, VLCC supported the event.  Anita Shah, Director, KIC, extended the gratitude to the sponsors, participating teams, friends and well wishers for their support to the KIC initiative and also for whole heartedly participating in the Cricket Vaganza. Pervez Iqbal, CEO &amp; Managing Director KIC, announced that with the grand success of first tournament, KIC will make it an annual activity with focus on UAE first and subsequently make it a Regional Tournament.  Teams from HSBC, Citibank, Media Edge, OMG, Liali Jewellery, VLCC, Khaleej Times, LG Electronics and du participated in the KIC Cricket Vaganza.  
