(Dow Jones Commodities News Select via Comtex) -- INTC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- (Adds information, quotes, updates/adds market information)  Asian share markets were falling Thursday after Wall Street slumped, with concerns about the corporate earnings outlook after some gloomy words from technology bellwether Intel Corp.  New Zealand's NZX-50 was down 1.4% with Australia's S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 down 4.2% and Japan's Nikkei 225 falling 5.2%; U.S. stock futures were 1%-2% lower in screen trade.  'Every asset class and now every company is affected by the vast array of feedback loops that stem from the dangerous cocktail of global recession, credit crunch and deleveraging,' said Commonwealth Bank's chief London strategist, Divyang Shah.  'Households, corporates and financials are hunkering down for the long road ahead and while these actions individually make sense, they are collectively adding oxygen to the wildfire.'  There was bad news after the closing bell in the U.S., with Intel saying its fourth quarter business was below expectations amid weaker demand; it slashed its revenue and gross margin forecasts for the quarter - less than a month after its last guidance update - in a sign of how quickly things have turned for the worse in the tech sector as economic growth slows in the U.S. and elsewhere.  It was particularly bad news as markets headed into the end-year holiday period, traditionally a stronger time for consumer spending; Intel shares were down 7% after-hours in the U.S., taking other large-cap tech stocks down with it.  'It looks like world markets will take another leg down in the next few days,' said a senior sales trader in Sydney.  'We passed through the eye of the hurricane, and are now back feeling the full force of the storm.'  The Japanese yen was supported - though off its highs - in a climate of risk aversion, while the Australian dollar was under pressure, but off its low with the central bank in Australia saying it had intervened earlier to buy the currency.  The share market declines came after the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 4.7% to 8282.66, within 110 points of its lowest close in five and a half years on Oct. 27; the Nasdaq dropped 5.2%.  Commodity and oil prices were also lower; economic woes were highlighted in Asia Thursday by New Zealand's third quarter retail sales data, showing the volume of sales fell 0.9% from the second quarter, when it fell 1.4%; economists said this gave the Reserve Bank of New Zealand leeway to cut interest rates further.  In Japan, financial stocks were leading decliners, with Mizuho Financial down 5.7%; a person close to the matter told Dow Jones the company was considering raising capital by issuing securities worth around Y300 billion.  Shinsei Bank was down 2.7% on its weak results for the fiscal first half, with the resignation of chief executive Thierry Porte.  Tech stocks were being sold on the Intel news with Sony down 7.3% and Canon falling 4.8%.  Financials were also falling in Australia with ANZ down 3.2% and Commonwealth Bank of Australia falling 4.7%; Commonwealth Bank in a trading update said it'll face higher provisions in its first half result, due to exposure to some recently-troubled companies.  Among mining stocks, BHP Billiton had fallen 7.7%.  In currency markets, the U.S. dollar was near Y94.95, from Y94.92 late in New York, and the euro was at Y118.50, from Y118.55, with both off their early lows; the euro was around $1.2460 with the Australian dollar near US$0.6370.  A trader at a European bank in Tokyo cautioned against reading much into the move by the yen off its highs, saying the currency would retain an upward bias.  Selling in commodities would likely crimp the Australian currency for now, added a Sydney analyst; 'in these types of circumstances, Aussie is the easiest to be in the sell position.'  Commonwealth Bank of Australia chief currency strategist Richard Grace forecast the euro in turn to stay under pressure against the U.S. dollar on risk aversion; he looked for the euro to fall to $1.18 by the first quarter of 2009.  Government bonds were rising on lower share markets and Wednesday's gains in U.S. Treasurys, with lead Japanese government bond futures at 138.55, from 138.09 Wednesday.  Spot gold was little changed, down 35 cents from New York at $709.75 a troy ounce, despite fading stocks, which might have spurred safe-haven demand for gold.  'We're kind of living in a different world right now,' said one trader, with weakness in equities prompting selling in gold in order to raise money for stock margin calls.  Front-month Nymex crude fell $1.00 to $55.16 per barrel on Globex, adding to a $3.17 fall in New York on worries about fading demand.  -By Rosalind Mathieson, Dow Jones Newswires; +65-6415-4140; Rosalind.Mathieson@dowjones.com  TALK BACK: We invite readers to send us comments on this or other financial news topics. Please email us at TalkbackAsia@dowjones.com. Readers should include their full names, work or home addresses and telephone numbers for verification purposes. We reserve the right to edit and publish your comments along with your name; we reserve the right not to publish reader comments.  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=gyqrrrOUgvITV9NeLavKMw%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires  11-12-08 1929ET  For full details on Intel Corp (INTC) click here. Intel Corp (INTC) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on Intel Corp (INTC) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
