LONDON (MarketWatch) -- London shares shook off early weakness to close firmly higher Friday, extending this week's winning streak to four as a month of turmoil ended. The U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) gained 2%, or 85.69 points, to 4,377.34. Other European shares also gained ground, as did U.S. stocks.    However, even after this week gains the FTSE 100 fell roughly 11% in October and 35% in the last twelve months. Gains from the beaten-down commodity sector supported the London index on Friday, with shares of Xstrata (UK:XTA: news, chart, profile) up 9.9% and BG Group (UK:BG: news, chart, profile) up 5.4%. Shares in insurer Friends Provident (UK:FP: news, chart, profile) climbed 5% as the group said it has a 1 billion pound insurance group directive surplus and no material exposure to below investment grade corporate bonds. It added that it's going to keep European life insurer Lombard International, will distribute its 52% stake in fund manager F&amp;amp;C Asset Management by mid 2009 and won't change its dividend policy. Nine-month total life and pension sales dropped 14% to 701 million pounds ($1.15 billion). F&amp;amp;C (UK:FCAM: news, chart, profile) shares rose 7.7% outside the top index. BT Group warns However, it was not all rosy on the earnings front. Shares of telecom provider BT Group (BT:BTNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BT.A: news, chart, profile) plunged 19% after it warned it would miss second-quarter earnings expectations following a disappointing performance at its global services division.  The group said it's still expecting to grow group revenue in its current financial year but anticipates that adjusted operating profit is likely to show a small decline compared with last year. In the retail sector, there was more evidence that the gloomy economic backdrop is taking a toll. Privately-owned department store operator John Lewis reported a 9.8% drop in weekly sales at its department store operation. Howard Archer at IHS Global Insight said that the sales drop is extremely worrying given that John Lewis is a good bellwether for the health of consumer spending and called for more rate cuts from the Bank of England. Publicly-held retailers had a difficult session, with department store operator Marks &amp;amp; Spencer (UK:MKS: news, chart, profile) down 5% and clothing retailer Next (UK:NXT: news, chart, profile) down 3.7%.. Both M&amp;amp;S and Next report results next week. Barclays' capital plan Barclays (BCS:BCSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BARC: news, chart, profile) shares reversed early gains to close down 12.8% after traders noted that the 14% coupon attached to the bank's capital raising plans is higher that the coupon required from banks using the U.K. government for capital. The lender said it's going to raise up to 7.3 billion pounds ($11.9 billion), mostly from Middle Eastern investors, a deal that will allow it to boost its reserves without taking U.K. government aid.  Barclays also reported that nine-month pretax income was slightly ahead of last year's. Other banks losing ground included HSBC Holdings (HBC:HBCNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:HSBA: news, chart, profile) , down 2.3%. Europe's largest lender by market capitalization was downgraded to sell from neutral at Goldman Sachs. 'With the concerns over capital and liquidity easing, we believe investor focus is likely to shift back to on balance sheet lending exposures. Our most immediate concern here is HSBC's U.S. sub-prime exposure,' said the analysts. Also on the downside, natural gas supplier Centrica (UK:CNA: news, chart, profile) dropped 0.6% to 304 pence. It said Friday that it will issue 1.39 billion new shares at 160 pence per share to raise around 2.2 billion pounds ($3.6 billion), which it might use to fund the acquisition of a stake in nuclear power plant operator British Energy (UK:BGY: news, chart, profile) . Centrica also said that it continues to trade in line with expectations on a pretax basis. 'We think the management statement will be overshadowed by the negative surprise coming from both the timing of this rights issue and the significant 40% discount to the ex-rights share price,' said analysts at Barclays Wealth. Sarah Turner is a markets reporter for MarketWatch in London. FTSE 100 index up 2%; Barclays unveils plan to raise capital
