with miners pacing the advance, although Barclays fell again as investors continued to assess the lender's capital raising moves.The U.K. FTSE 100 index rose 0.7%, or 31.77 points, to 4,409.11. Other European shares were also higher in morning action and U.S. stock futures were pointing to an advance on Wall Street ahead of this week's presidential election. See Europe Markets. Read more on election.'Given the recent history of U.S. elections, there is likely to be a tale or two along the way before we know the eventual victor on Wednesday. That will clear the way for global central bankers to take the limelight once again with a continuation of their slashing of interest rates,' said analysts at Goodbody Stockbrokers.The Bank of England and the European Central Bank are expected to cut rates sharply on Thursday. The London index is on track for its fifth straight session of gains after last week's rate-cutting moves in the U.S. and Asia. In the mining sector, BHP Billiton shares rose 4.3% after it said Monday it has no plans to cut iron-ore output or slow expansion plans. That's despite Brazilian iron-ore rival Vale announcing cutbacks over the weekend because of slow demand. 'We are not cutting production. We're in a position to invest throughout the cycle, and look at the long term when planning expansions,' said a BHP spokeswoman. Other mining companies doing well included Rio Tinto , up 1.8%, Anglo American , up 2.9% and Xstrata , up 8.3%.Of metal futures, copper climbed 2 cents, or 0.7%, to $1.84 a pound, while gold rose $16.80 to $735 an ounce.Barclays downHowever, Barclays dropped another 6.7%, extending sharp losses made Friday when it announced a deal to raise up to $11.9 billion, mostly from Middle Eastern investors. 'Barclays announced plans to raise more capital but on more dilutive terms than we had been expecting, prompting 17% reductions in our earnings-per-share forecasts,' said Jason Napier at Deutsche Bank.'We believe some are now of the view that Barclays would have been better served to seek U.K. government funding with its lower 12% preference share coupon and no equity conversion,' he added.HSBC Holdings fell 3.5%. However, mortgage lender HBOS rose 3.1%. The bank, which recently agreed to be taken over by Lloyds TSB , said Monday that the deal is proceeding according to plan. A Scottish financier, Jim Spowart, said over the weekend that there's another potential bid, but as of Monday morning no alternative bid has been announced. Total secured impaired loans increased to 5.6 billion pounds, from 5.1 billion pounds at June 30. Separately, Lloyds TSB said that market dislocation, insurance-related volatility and higher impairment charges hurt profit before tax in the first nine months of the year. Shares dipped 2.1%. See full story.
