NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Avon Products Inc., the largest direct seller of beauty products, on Thursday reported third-quarter profit rose less than analysts expected after an unexpected drop in North American sales. The company lowered its full-year outlook after it said the soured consumer sentiment and economy that hurt sales in North America will continue to deteriorate in the fourth quarter. The news sent Avon (AVP:AVPNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) shares tumbling 15% to close at $22.57, wiping out 43% of their value this year. Avon's third-quarter net income rose 60% to $222.6 million, or 52 cent a share, from $139.1 million, or 32 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue grew 13% to $2.64 billion and would have increased 6% without the benefit of currency translations. The company, excluding a tax benefit of 9 cents a share, would have earned 43 cents a share. That missed the 51-cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by FactSet Research. Avon lowered its full-year operating margin, a measure of profit, to be in the range of 13% from its previous projection of margin approaching 2005's level of about 14%. In addition to the weakening North American market, recent strength in the U.S. dollar also is expected to further dent results if the trend continues, the company said. The rise in the value of the dollar against euro and other foreign currencies is expected to hurt companies with expanded overseas sales after they are translated back to the U.S. dollar. Rival Estee Lauder Cos. (EL:ELNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) this week also cut its outlook in part as it expects the rising dollar to hurt sales. The 'results and updated outlook are a clear disappointment,' said Lauren Lieberman of Barclays Capital. 'While [currency] is surely a factor in the lowered outlook, by our math, there has to be a lot more than just unfavorable translation included in the updated margin guidance.' Chief Executive Andrea Jung has cut costs while increasing advertising and incentives to boost the number of active representatives, an indicator of sales trends. She's also expanding in faster-growing emerging markets from China to Brazil. While the economic slowdown that started in the U.S. has spread worldwide, Avon said it hasn't seen any measurable impact on its business outside of North America and said it expects fourth-quarter revenue in the international market, excluding the currency impact, to rise at a similar rate as the third-quarter level. At quarter end, total debt increased $313 million while cash was up $4 million. The company said that it continues to expect full-year 2008 cash flow from operating activities to be substantially higher than that of full-year 2007. During the third quarter, sales of beauty products rose 15%, led by a 19% gain in color cosmetics and an 18% jump in fragrance products. Active representatives increased 5%. Latin American sales rose 25%, about half of the gains from the currency translations. Brazil and Venezuela each gained at least 30% while sales in Mexico were up about 10%. North American sales fell 3% after units sold dropped 5%. Sales of Beyond Beauty products tumbled 23%. Some analysts had expected a sales gain in the region. Central and Eastern European sales climbed 17%. Russia sales increased 12% and expanded 50% in Ukraine. Western Europe, Middle East and Africa region sales climbed 8%. Turkey sales climbed more than 20% while demand in Italy jumped about 30%. U.K. revenue climbed 1%. Asia Pacific sales rose 6%, with sales in the Philippines increasing 20%. Demand in China climbed 25%. Andria Cheng is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York.
