Drop in oil, gold prices drives TSX lowerTORONTO (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index  fell more than 2 percent on Friday morning as gold and oil prices swooned, pulling the materials and energy sectors lower. The drop snapped three straight days of gains, which were built on firmer commodity prices. The decline on the TSX also tracked similar losses on global markets as Japan's interest rate cut failed to ease concerns about the world economic outlook and the impact on corporate profits.Economy enters negative territory in AugustOTTAWA (Reuters) - Canada's economy shrank 0.3 percent in August, erasing some of July's sharp gains but still pointing to modest growth in the third quarter before the full impact of the global financial crisis hit. Statistics Canada said on Friday the downturn was due to weakness in the manufacturing, wholesale trade and energy sectors -- the same groups that drove growth in July.Goldcorp profit up on prices, exchange gainOTTAWA (Reuters) - Goldcorp said on Friday its third-quarter profit nearly quadrupled on a big foreign exchange gain and stronger gold prices, but without the one-time lift earnings declined. The gold miner, with operations in Canada and throughout Latin America, earned $297 million, or 42 cents a share, in the quarter ended September 30. That compared with a profit of $75.8 million, or 11 cents a share, in the year-before period.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Grim reports showing American consumers tightening their belts and the U.S. business outlook weakening deepened fears about global recession, while a Japanese rate cut on Friday did little to stem the bleeding. British banking giant Barclays said it was raising $12 billion in capital, the latest move in the troubled world financial sector, which has been drastically reshaped by the crisis stemming from the burst U.S. housing bubble.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil fell nearly $2 on Friday as weak demand and the global economic crisis put crude on track for the biggest monthly drop ever. U.S. crude fell $1.82, or almost 3 percent, to $64.14 a barrel by 12:00 p.m. EDT. It is down by around 35 percent for October, its steepest monthly decline to date as demand in the United States and other big consumer nations slows.Loonie knocked down, hit by equity slideTORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar, along with most major currencies, dropped versus the U.S. dollar on Friday, hurt as equity markets fell due to renewed fears of global recession. Bond prices rose as investors sought secure government debt in the face of a stock selloff and data from Canada that showed the economy shrank in August.Takeover talk circles handful of Canadian juniorsOTTAWA (Reuters) - Merger and acquisition activity in Canada's mining patch will heat up again, but it is tough to predict when big miners will decide the time is right. 'The increasing valuation gap between the senior and intermediate producers and the junior explorers/developers suggests to us that M&amp;amp;A activity will likely heat up going into 2009,' Dundee Securities said in a note to clients.DETROIT/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Six U.S. governors and a group of chief executives on Thursday urged the Bush administration in a letter to aid the embattled auto industry while the White House rebuffed a request for direct support of a merger between GM and Chrysler. An administration official said the focus instead would be on speeding of $25 billion of low-interest loans for factory retooling, a step the industry's allies say does not go far enough to reverse a deepening industry crisis.Eldorado Gold profit rises with prices, salesOTTAWA (Reuters) - Eldorado Gold Corp said on Friday its third-quarter earnings more than tripled as gold sales and prices rose, and the Canadian miner maintained its 2008 production forecast. Eldorado said it earned $17 million, or 5 cents a share, in the period ended Sept 30, compared with a profit of $5.2 million, or 2 cents a share, in the year-before quarter.SNC Lavalin profit rises with operating incomeTORONTO (Reuters) - Engineering and construction company SNC-Lavalin Group Inc reported a higher third-quarter profit on Friday, as strong performances of its mining and metallurgy, and infrastructure and environment segments made up for a dip in revenue. SNC said net income was $91.3 million, or 60 cents a share, up from $63.2 million, or 41 cents a share, in the same period the year before.  
