 By Riva Froymovich Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The dollar is in higher demand Friday as money managers close out the month and after a decline in global equities. The euro is down against the greenback after stocks fell in Asia and Europe, and with U.S. stock futures signaling the same. Many analysts also credit higher dollar demand to month-end flows, wherein long term traders balance their currency portfolios. '[Large] institutional investors may wish to rebalance their portfolios so that the share made up by different asset classes does not change too much over the month,' said analysts at Barclays Capital, particularly given the historic levels of volatility this month across financial markets. 'Our model, based on this phenomenon in previous month-ends, suggests a strong dollar buy signal against euro, U.K. pound, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar,' Barclays said. However, note currency analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman, demand for the dollar lately has been much stronger during the Asia and Europe trading sessions than in the U.S. 'That may reflect the fact that fewer U.S. investment funds hedge equities than do Asian and European funds. There is a reasonable chance the dollar is better offered in the North American session,' said BBH. The return to weakness for the risk sensitive currencies, such as the euro, reverses a week-long trend of strengthening that some signaled as a sign the dollar had reached a ceiling. 'We believe the deleveraging process is likely to be ongoing into year-end as hedge funds and banks continue to shed assets, and expect recovery in risk sentiment to be a slow and choppy process, with deep setbacks such as we are seeing today,' analysts at Credit Suisse said. Friday morning in New York, the euro was at $1.2748 from $1.2930 late Thursday, while the dollar was at Y97.65 from Y98.56, according to EBS. The euro was at Y124.48 from Y127.36. The U.K. pound was at $1.6193 from $1.6434 and the dollar was at CHF1.1518 from CHF1.1390 Thursday. The rise of the lower-yielding yen discounts a 20-basis-point rate cut by the Bank of Japan overnight. 'This isn't too surprising, since a reduction in administered rates from 0.5% to 0.3% is hardly a panacea for the Japanese economy,' said Stephen Malyon, currency strategist at Scotia Capital in Toronto. However, the rate cut by the Federal Reserve Wednesday, which was followed by cuts in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, had boosted market confidence on the central banks' active management. But the BOJ cut was also less than the quarter-percentage-point reduction expected, and was passed by a tie-breaking vote from the bank's governor. This suggests to market watchers that the BOJ is not ready to take aggressive easing steps. 'This was probably the most symbolic of the various policy moves undertaken this week, and most of its impact was felt earlier in the week as rumors of the cut prompted investors to scramble back into carry trades and yen weakness gave a big lift to Asian equities,' Malyon said. Market sentiment also looked unlikely to recover after data released early in New York. Consumers lowered spending in September and lifted savings as they dealt with falling equity prices and uncertainty about their jobs, the Commerce Department said Friday. -By Riva Froymovich, Dow Jones Newswires; 201 938-5063; riva.froymovich@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=fPeOfbYQXb9LfAusoJ0ALQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones NewswiresOctober 31, 2008 08:59 ET (12:59 GMT) 
