Article from:   The Australian  LOCAL stocks soared nearly 5 per cent today on the back of miners and oil producers after massive gains in commodity prices.  Financials were also higher after the US Government launched an unprecedented $US300 billion-plus rescue for international bank Citigroup.  Investors also welcomed president-elect Barack Obamas new economic team and plans from US lawmakers for a second major economic stimulus plan worth up to $US700 billion.  Qantas Airways slumped 2.6 per cent to $2.25 after slashing capacity and warning fiscal 2009 earnings would be lower than expected as fewer people fly due to the global financial crisis.  The airline said it expected pretax profit to be $500 million. In August Qantas said pretax profit would be broadly in line with analyst consensus of $751 million - significantly lower than the $1.4 billion pretax profit recorded last year.  The S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 rose 164.3 points, or 4.8 per cent, to 3589.4.  The All Ordinaries were up 155.8 points at 3544.6.  The gains were underpinned by the basic materials sector which soared more than 9 per cent after copper bounced almost 8 per cent to 10-day highs on a rise in imports by China.  Oil producers leaped nearly 9 per cent after the crude oil price rose by about the same amount.  Financials were up 4.24 per cent, led by Commonwealth Bank and ANZ.  Meanwhile, Citi raised its recommendation for IAG to buy from hold now that the insurers share price is trading at more attractive levels.  JP Morgan downgraded property developer Leighton to underweight from neutral given the likelihood for a synchronised global economic recession.  And Goldman Sachs JBWere lifted its rating on IOOF Holdings to hold from sell after the wealth management business announced plans to merge with Australian Wealth Management.  The December share price index futures contract has pointed to 4.8 per cent gain in the physical market after the broad S&amp;amp;P 500 piled on more than 6 per cent for the biggest two-day gain since 1987.  European shares registered gains of more than 10 per cent while Londons FTSE 100 jumped a record 9.8 per cent as the British government announced about $46.4 billion fiscal stimulus package to try to drag the economy out of recession.  If the Australian market closes in positive territory, it would mark the third consecutive session in the black.  But market observers warned the sudden enthusiasm for shares would start to fade once investors turned their attention back to the worsening outlook.  ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said: Its good to see green, so Im not complaining, but when I look at the rationale behind the markets renewed enthusiasm I cant help but think itll prove fleeting.  Bank of New Zealand currency strategist Danica Hampton said the Citigroup rescue deal and UK stimulus package led to a rebound in investor confidence and supported a stronger dollar.  The Australian dollar was trading at US65.31c after closing at US62.83c yesterday.  But in more sobering economic news, Ms Hampton said a weak German business confidence survey - which dropped to a 15-year low - and more disappointing US housing data highlighted the continued downturn in the global economy.  Existing home sales fell in October and house prices had their biggest fall in history.  I'm a little bit sceptical about how long this bounce in confidence will last,' Ms Hampton said.  I wouldn't be surprised if we start to see equities falter in the next day or two.  The outlook for Asian economies, including Australia, is looking even gloomy after the International Monetary Fund downgraded its forecasts for growth in the region over the next 12 months.  The IMF now expects growth to slow substantially to 4.9 per cent in 2009 from a 5.6 per cent forecast issue in October, as the global slowdown reduces demand for exports, consumer confidence remains in the doldrums and bank lending tightens.  Asia is expected to grow 6 per cent this year after expanding 7.6 per cent in 2007.  
