BHP BILLITON'S assertion that it will be able to maintain iron ore production despite a downturn in the demand for steelmaking materials has been challenged by Macquarie Equities.  The broker, which is serving as an adviser to BHP's takeover target, Rio Tinto, yesterday slashed its estimates of BHP's iron ore production volumes by 17 per cent to 111 million tonnes.  Combined with cuts to the volume and price forecasts of coking coal, and other commodity price changes, Macquarie has reduced its BHP earnings forecasts by 31 per cent this year and 50 per cent next year.  It now expects BHP's nickel division to lose $US535 million ($825 million) before interest and taxes this year.  BHP admits that up to 6 million tonnes of its iron ore sales - or 28 per cent of expected shipments for the last two months of the year - could be deferred, but has repeatedly insisted there is no need to cut production since it is a low-cost supplier.  It intends to sell those shipments into the spot market, at prices that are now 40 per cent below the benchmark, rather than follow its peers Vale, Rio Tinto and Fortescue Metals and cut production.  A Macquarie analyst, Brendan Harris, said on recent visits to China and South America his team had been 'shocked by the level of uncertainty that surrounds near-term [commodities] demand' and so the broker had softened its volume forecasts.  In October Chinese steel production was running at 26 per cent below its peak in June - the lowest rate of monthly production since May 2006.  Steelmakers in Japan, Korea and Taiwan have yet to make large production cutbacks, but those are expected by the start of the new year and such a move could further suppress demand for iron ore and coking coal.  Macquarie expects the iron ore price to fall 20 per cent next year and is not alone in predicting a decline. Goldman Sachs JBWere has revised its forecast decline to 30 per cent, UBS to 40 per cent and ANZ Bank to 50 per cent.  Goldman Sachs is advising BHP on its takeover bid for Rio. One of its research analysts, Neil Goodwill, yesterday slashed his earnings target for Rio by 32 per cent for next year and 33 per cent in 2010, based on lower commodities price forecasts.  It is difficult to compare earnings forecasts for BHP and Rio for two reasons. First, Rio reports earnings over the calendar year and BHP over the financial year to June 30. Second, almost every major global investment bank is advising one of the sides on the deal, which limits their analysts to reporting only on the company the bank is not advising.  BHP shares closed 90c lower at $24.20, and Rio shares closed $5.44 lower at $68.  
