Australian shares were sharply lower at midday after Wall Street plunged almost 400 points in its last hour of trade on more bad economic news.  At around 1pm, the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index was down 3.9%, or 131.2 points, to 3221.7, taking it back to December 2003 lows.  The Australian dollar also sagged, buying 60.9 US cents recently, more than 2 US cents down on yesterday's local close of 63.52 US cents. It was also buying 57.34 yen.  ''The sell-off is across the board,'' said James Drohan of Ord Minnett. ''There is no light at the end of the tunnel at this point and time.''  ''We're basically following the US market.''  Jobless claims in the US jumped by 27,000 last week, while the number of American workers filing new employment claims hit a 16 year high overnight. The data shows the US recession will be ''deeper and more prolonged'' than earlier though, said Mr Drohan. And that's driving sharemarkets around the world to new lows.  ANZ Bank market strategist Patricia Gacis said global investors are moving money out of equities alongside the Australian dollar, both of which are considered riskier bets.  'There's a strong correlation in equity markets and the Australian dollar, that's why we've continued to see weakness in our time zone.'  Strong falls in the Dow have driven rises in US Treasury yields, which in turn have benefited the greenback. As the US dollar strengthens, the Australian dollar falls.  Rate cut  Expectations of a full percentage point cut to the interest rate solidified overnight, with the market now considering it a near certainty that the Reserve Bank will chop the official interest rate down to 4.25% when it meets in the first week of December, according to Credit Suisse. There's a one-in-two chance it could be cut to 4%.  A similar index forecasts that the interest rate will have fallen to 3% with 12 months.  And there's even a one-in-two chance that the RBA will make a decision outside of its regularly scheduled meetings that occur every month but January.  With the financial crisis forcing economists to reassess the outlook on a weekly basis, analysts haven't ruled out such a move from the RBA, which acted as it did in 1990 and 1992.  A spokesman for the RBA said the bank has no plans to do so, 'but there's nothing to preclude the bank from meeting in January.' Continued...  Page  1 2 3  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
