BAMRAIDERS made a rare escape to pocket thousands in cash after blowing up an ATM at Ramsgate Beach in Sydney's south last night.  The usually unsuccessful bam raid split the ATM open but the thieves left much of the cash behind.  Meanwhile armed robbers struck a Sydney hotel - more details below - and . The glass window of St George Bank was blown several meters across the car park after the ATM was pumped with gas and detonated about 12.30am.  Hurstville Local Area Command Inspector Todd Cunningham said witnesses heard a huge explosion and saw four men fleeing the scene in two get-away cars, a silver Audi and a black BMW station wagon. 'Some of the money has been taken, it appears that some may be missing but it is up to the bank to know how much it is,' he said. 'We will be reviewing CCTV footage and securing the bank.' Police canvassed the area on foot and on board Pol Air while forensic officers swept the area for clues.  The bam raiders were last seen travelling southbound on Chuter Ave, Ramsgate.  Neighbouring cafes, chemists and gyms at Rams Gate Beach Plaza, on Ramsgate Rd, were not damaged in the blast.  The bank itself did not have structural damage.  Detectives from Strike Force Piccadilly II, who are investigating a string of bam raids across the state, are assisting St George police with the investigation.  Insp Cunningham said police investigations into the incident are continuing.  Anyone with information about the incident who has not yet spoken to police is urged to contact St George Police or Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.   FEBRUARY:  4: Neutral Bay, money stolen  2: Warrawong, unknown if money was taken  JANUARY:  29: Morisset, no money taken  27: Panania, no money  15: Lake Haven, Central Coast, no money  DECEMBER:  20: Umina, money stolen  19: Erskineville, no money  19: Telopea, money stolen  19: Pennant Hills, no money  18: Chester Hill, money stolen  18: Rhodes, unknown  17: Liverpool, money stolen  16: Ruse, no money  2: Galston, no money  1: Rosehill, no money   ROBBERS HIT SYDNEY HOTEL  POLICE are hunting a weapon-wielding trio who robbed a hotel in Sydney's inner west with a handgun and a sledge hammer last night.  Three men demanded cash from two male employees at the Annandale pub about 11.30am.   The men allegedly stole a sum of cash from the premises before fleeing the scene.  Leichhardt police are searching for three men who may be able to assist them with their inquiries.  The gunman is described as being between 175 and 180cm tall, who covered his face and head with a white shirt.  A man carrying a sledge hammer is described as being between 175cm and 180cm tall with a skinny build.  At the time of the incident he was wearing a black coloured cloth over his head, a dark grey jumper and was armed with a sledge hammer.   Anyone with information about the incident is urged to contact Leichhardt Police or Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.  The glass window of St George Bank was blown several meters across t... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/dailytelegraph/story/0,22049,25033568-5006009,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
