Canyon Country, CA Temp: 57F Wind Chill: 57F Humidity: N/A% Speed: calm mph Direct.: 0 Barom.: N/A in CALM  Provided by: On-Demand Radio Choose your favorite player    NOTE: For Windos Media, right-click and SAVE the link to your computer, then double click the file to open the stream in Windos Media Player.  KHTS    Written by Carol Rock Wednesday, 25 February 2009 Man hands teller a note, alks out ith undisclosed amount of cash, eludes deputies. KHTS Nes brought to you by Detectives from the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff's Station - Robbery and Assault team are investigating a robbery that occurred this afternoon at the Bank of America near the corner of Whites Canyon Road and Soledad Canyon Road in Canyon Country. The public's assistance is sought in the case.  Wanted for questioning by the sheriff's department  A male adult entered the bank, produced a note demanding money and fled in an undermined direction after obtaining an undisclosed amount of United States currency. Detectives are seeking public assistance in identifying and locating the suspect and have released the attached photo from the robbery. The man depicted here is being sought for questioning only at this time.   The suspect is described as a male hite or Hispanic, 40-45 years of age, 5'08"-6'00" tall, heavy-set possibly 200-240 pounds, earing a dark-colored polo style shirt. At the time of the incident the suspect had a dark-colored mustache, glasses, and an unshaven chin - goatee. Witnesses believe the suspect may have possibly been armed ith a handgun and fled the scene in a dark-colored sedan ith a design on the side.  Several deputies immediately converged on the area and searched for the suspect, but he as not located. **Note: The suspect may be armed. He should be considered armed and dangerous. If you see him, do not approach or confront him. Immediately dial 9-1-1 and deputies ill respond. Anyone ith information regarding this crime or the hereabouts of the man depicted here is asked to immediately dial 9-1-1 or contact the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff's Station at (661) 255-1121. KHTS room gaJsHost (("https:" ? "https://ssl." : + gaJsHost + "google-analytics.com/ga.js' pageTracker  poered by
