) - To watch 6-year-old Mason Morgan, you would never know he survived a six organ transplant, let alone a life threatening disease. 'I think anyone who's around him just appreciates life more,' Mason's mom, Jessica said. 'He's 6-years-old and doesn't complain. So how can anyone else complain about anything?' The scars that criss cross his small body tell the story, the battle that still lies ahead. Mason has a form of lymphoma found only in patients who have had transplants.   Mason has gone through five rounds of chemotherapy, but doctors told Jessica the treatments didn't work. 'It didn't treat it,' she explained. 'It kept it from spreading, but all the tumors are still there.' While treating the cancer, doctors discovered Mason's body may be showing sign of rejecting the organs that once saved his life.   The family was devastated. 'You kind of have to figure, is it worse to have lymphoma though out his body? Or is it worse for him to go into rejection and risk needing a new transplant,' Jessica asked. Neither is an option Jessica even wants to consider. She's trying to get Mason to New York to visit his original transplant surgeon. She's hoping the doctor will give them more treatments to try. Unfortunately, Mason's health insurance won't pay for the travel or any of the tests he might need while he's there and time is running out for the 6-year-old. 'Hopefully things are going to work out and he'll be ok,' Jessica said. 'But we've looked at that option, we may not have him next year.' Jessica and Mason don't like to dwell on that thought, instead focusing on life and letting Mason be a regular kid. 'He tells me, 'you know what mom? We're going to get through this.' And I look at him and say, 'We are Mason. We'll be fine,'' she said. 'He's just a strong kid. So as long as he's fighting and strong, I'm going to be strong. I'm not going to complain at all.' February 27 will be the five year anniversary of Mason's transplant. Doctors are hoping he'll be able to do another round of chemotherapy, but it will be three months until his body will be strong enough to tolerate it. In the mean time, the family hopes to get him to New York. If you'd like to help Mason's family with medical expenses, there is a medical fund set up in his name. Just go to any Bank of America and tell them you'd like to make a donation on behalf of Mason Morgan. If they can't pull up the account, mention Heather Taylor as the executor over the account. 
