The Columbia County Sheriffs K-9 Unit assisted the Lake City Police Department in order to trace where the suspect in a Monday robbery of the Bank of America branch on U.S. Highway 90 West might have ended up. The Lake City Police Department is still investigating. JASON MATTHEW WALKER/Lake City Reporter  Suspect made off with undetermined amount of cash.  Local authorities are continuing their search for a man who robbed a local bank Monday and escaped with an undetermined amount of cash.  According to information released from the Lake City Police Department Tuesday morning, witnesses described the suspect as being a white male, approximately 50 years old, with silver/white hair who has a Fu Manchu mustache with goatee.  The man is described as being 5 feet 10 inches tall, having a medium build  and is apparently left-handed. He was last seen wearing a navy blue hoodie with a black-and-white striped shirt underneath.  On Monday, the man walked into the Bank of America branch office at 2357 U.S. Highway 90 West, robbed the bank and fled the scene on foot, heading west from the bank.  Police reports indicate the suspect entered the bank unnoticed, and when he got to the tellers counter, he raised up the left hoodie pocket onto the counter with his left hand and told her he had a gun and demanded money.  He did not present a note, he just verbally said, This is a hold-up and asked for the money, Lake City Police Department interim chief Gary Laxton said.  The teller complied with the demands and gave the man an undisclosed amount of money. The man then walked out the bank and fled on foot in a westerly direction.  No gun was seen and no shots were fired during the robbery.  The Lake City Police Department was given additional information from Florida law enforcement agencies that the robber may be wanted for involvement in other bank robberies in the state.  Local authorities are using a surveillance photo from the bank to learn the robbers identity, but Laxton said he looks almost identical to an individual that robbed a Bank of America in Ormond Beach within the past few days.  
