Big Idea, Inc. is proud to present VeggieTales: Abe And The Amazing Promise on DVD at select stores February 7th and everywhere on February 10th featuring the voice of nationally syndicated radio host 'Delilah.' Join Bob the Tomato as his patience is tested while he brings the Bible story of Abraham and Sarah to life due to some spitting camels and zany French peas!   Good things come to those who wait! VeggieTales: Abe And The Amazing Promise, the exciting new Bible-story-based adventure from Big Idea, Inc., an Entertainment Rights group company, releases on DVD February 7, 2009. The DVD launches amidst a comprehensive multi-product VeggieTales 'Values To Grow By' marketing campaign.   Abe and the Amazing Promise is a Veggie-spun Bible classic that tells the story of Abraham and Sarah and their wait for a promised child. Featuring a lesson in patience, the DVD showcases nationally syndicated radio host 'Delilah' as the voice of Sarah. Including a new Silly Song with Larry entitled 'Sneeze If You Need To!,' the musical 'misadventures' of Blunders in Boo-Boo-Ville and lots of family-friendly bonus features, this highly anticipated title is available in Christian stores Saturday, February 7 and everywhere Tuesday February 10. The product will be distributed in the CBA market through Word Distribution and in the general market through Genius Products.   Releasing simultaneously in February with the Abe and the Amazing Promise DVD will be The VeggieTales Bible from Zonderkidz. This full-text Bible, aimed at children 8-years old and under, will be available in the complete New International Version (NIV,) considered to be the most-read and most-trusted Bible translation. Highlights include 32 full-color pages with a Veggie-retelling of eight favorite Bible stories pictorially, as well as a 'Veggie Values' feature where Bob and Larry show kids how to find themes such as forgiveness, trusting in God, being helpful and more. The VeggieTales Bible invites children to experience God's Word using the backdrop of much-loved VeggieTales characters, who remind them that 'God made you special, and He loves you very much!'  'We are honored to bring these inspiring, entertaining and meaningful products to today's families,' says Greg Fritz, SVP of Marketing and Licensing for Big Idea. 'Abe teaches a wonderful lesson in patience, which is a welcome message for kids and parents alike! And we trust that The VeggieTales Bible from Zonderkidz will be instrumental in getting kids engaged in God's Word and discovering that they are uniquely made and completely loved.' 'There is so much buzz from consumers and retailers about the new VeggieTales Bible,' adds Annette Bourland, Zonderkidz Senior Vice President and Publisher. 'Zonderkidz is proud to partner with Big Idea on a brand we know kids will love and parents will trust. This dynamic partnership allows us to publish a Bible that will inspire many children and their families.'' Bob the Tomato tries to bring the Bible story of Abraham and Sarah and their wait for a promised son to life, but when spitting camels and a film crew of zany French peas get involved, everyone's patience is tested! Will Bob pull everything together in time to teach a lesson? Whether they're waiting on a promise from God or cookies from mom, kids will learn that while being patient is never easy, the reward is always worth the wait!  The DVD also features the musical 'misadventures' of Blunders in Boo-Boo-Ville where Jacques (Larry the Cucumber) attempts to invent a way to bring back the boo-boo birds and discovers that taking time to do things the right way is the best way!  Bonus Features: -  and : New Silly Song Sing-Along 'Sneeze If You Need To' - Behind the Scenes: How Did We Make A Lesson In Patience? Art Gallery and Commentary -  , Interactive Storybook, Discussion Guide  - Interactive Game, How to Draw Abraham and a Boo-Boo Bird  VeggieTales: Abe And The Amazing Promise DVD vid
