SAYBROOK TOWNSHIP  Every now and then Sunday afternoon during the Beacons Best Bowling Tournament finals, the cry of Hi ho, Silva, rose up at St. Angelos Lanes. There was not a sighting of the Lone Ranger and his faithful steed, Silver, however. Instead, it was a cheer to spur on Ray Silva in his charge to the tournament championship, sometimes even coming from his fellow competitors.  Actually, those cheers were probably heard Saturday night at Jefferson Lanes, too, as the 45-year-old Silva roared from ninth qualifying position to the top of the 12-man field that reached Sundays finals. Silva thrilled the crowd there with a 1,055 total for four games, a cool 266.3 average. For the 12 games of qualifying, with four-game blocks and ABC Lanes and Lake Shore Lanes, he shot a 2,864 for 238.7 average.  Fueled by his sizzling third round, Silva maintained his momentum Sunday, with only a couple hiccups along the way. Once he got to the six-man TV format finals, he performed with machine-like efficiency, knocking down 1,257 pins in his five-game march to the title, a 251.4 average.  With his stellar performance, Silva claimed the $1,200 first prize by topping the 50-bowler field. Runner-up Dave Johnson received $600, while third-place finisher Mike Lemponen earned $450 from the Star Beacon, the chief tournament sponsor, and fellow sponsors Apple Heating, Ashtabula County Bowling Association, Ashtabula Womens Bowling Association, E&amp;J Glass, East Ashtabula Club, JDs Pizza, Nationwide Insurance, Ronicks Sports and Apparel and U.S. Bank.  Silva needed to be on top of his game to fight his way to the championship. Until his 258-170 victory over Johnson in the championship match, his largest margin of victory was by a 268-222 margin over defending champion Lemponen, who has won the tournament twice, in the penultimate match.  Along the way, he had to eliminate 2006 Beacons Best winner Terry Whitehead in the opener of the stepladder finals, 248-220, and two more of Ashtabula Countys top young bowlers in Ronnie Kaydo, 237-235, and Ryan Wintz, 246-243. He is nearly twice the age of all three.  The best explanation Silva, who had only reached the Beacons Best finals once back in 2002, had for his ability to come up with the goods and weather the storm against four opponents younger than him, was that it was simply his time. I considered myself lucky to be here, Silva, who has worked at Grand River Rubber for 11 years, said. I knew I had to make the most of it. I knew I was up against great competition. Any of the 12 guys in the finals could have won it. I could have finished first or last. It was a pleasure bowling against all of those guys. He also knew what a tough customer Johnson was, for two reasons. First, although he has never won the tournament under its Beacons Best moniker, Johnson had won the tournament seven times when it was known as the Big Sams County Singles Tournament, named for the late Sam Monda.  Second, Johnson defeated Silva in the second match of the day during the double-elimination portion of the finals. That loss proved to be a blessing to Silva, though. Coming in here as the top qualifier put a lot of pressure on me, he said. It took into the third game before I really started to feel comfortable. I bowled well against Dave the first time. Losing to him actually helped me relax. When they met again in the finals, it was no contest. Silva opened with a strike. Johnson had a spare off nine pins in his first frame, then followed with an open frame to get behind the eight-ball immediately.
