AM Best Downgrades Issuer Credit Rating of Homesteaders Life ...MarketWatch (press release)Additional concerns surfaced in late January with regards to a reinsurance counterparty of Homesteaders, Scottish Re (US) Inc. (Scottish Re), which was  placed under a regulatory order of supervision by the Insurance Commissioner of Delaware. ... in UNUM America News &gt;American Airlines' unions compare AA management bonuses to AIG'sTrading Markets (press release), CALabor officials are criticizing executives with American Airlines parent AMR Corp., comparing a slate of upcoming executive bonuses to payouts distributed by the bailed-out insurance giant American International Group. The AIG bonuses, paid after the ... in UNUM America News &gt;Reinsurance will be focus for RAA courseRoyal Gazette, BermudaGetting to grips with re/insurance will be the focus for a course held at the Fairmont Hamilton Princess hotel next week. The Reinsurance Association of America's (RAA) 'Demystifying Reinsurance': A Basics of Property Casualty Reinsurance Course will ... in UNUM America News &gt;Ramit Sethi on Getting Rich and Automating Your MoneyLifehacker, CA(For instance), I put  up a prompted script for calling your car insurance company, and people saved $600-$700 with a 10-minute phone call. ... The other side is earning more. I advise everyone who wants to make more to become a consultant. ... in UNUM America News &gt;DOI Helps North Carolinians Recover $10 Million in 2008McDowell News, NCRALEIGH - Insurance Commissioner Wayne Goodwin today released the 2008 statistics for the Department of Insurance's Consumer Services Division, which handles  consumer inquiries and complaints about insurance-related issues. ... in UNUM America News &gt;Obama Promotes New Bank Rescue PlanMyStateline.com, ILThe struggling insurance giant is a major beneficiary of government bailouts. The House last week passed a bill which would tax 90-percent of bonuses paid to top execs at companies that have received taxpayer bailouts. in UNUM America News &gt;AM Best Downgrades Issuer Credit Rating of Homesteaders Life ...PR-Inside.com (Pressemitteilung), AustriaAdditional concerns surfaced in late January with regards to a reinsurance counterparty of Homesteaders, Scottish Re (US) Inc. (Scottish Re), which was  placed under a regulatory order of supervision by the Insurance Commissioner of Delaware. ... in UNUM America News &gt;Banking plan targets toxic assetsCoventry Telegraph, UKIn a lengthy fact sheet the administration said it expects participation from  a broad array of private sources, ranging from pension funds to insurance companies and other long-term investors. The Federal Reserve, which is the US central bank, ... in UNUM America News &gt;Please help Greenpeace fight against the destruction of whales.  Click here for more information &gt;
