Ref : AIG still facing huge credit lossesBy Henny Sender in New York  Financial Times, March 3 2009 AIG has declared a $62bn fourth-quarter loss and confirmed that it would give the US government a stake in its two biggest divisions as part of a fresh $30bn rescue.Meanwhile  more losses may follow. AIG retains $12bn in exposure to credit insurance on positions mostly involving subprime mortgages. As of February 18, AIG could have to pay counterparties up to $8bn on these positions.Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, expressed his strong sentiments  in an appearance before the Senate budget committee: "If there is a single episode in this entire 18 months that has made me more angry, I cant think of one other than AIG.There was no oversight of the financial products division. This was a hedge fund basically that was attached to a large and stable insurance company. AIG burnt its fingers badly when it moved agggressively into selling  credit default swaps to provide credit protection   for  collateralised debt obligations.AIG ran into trouble when its credit rating was downgraded and the value of the CDOs it insured fell, This  forced it to post tens of billions of dollars in additional collateral with its counterparties. Pushed to the wall, AIG had no option but appeal to  the government for a bailout in September.In November, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York set up a limited liability company called Maiden Lane III  backed by $5bn from AIG and borrowings of up to $30bn from the Fed  to deal with the crisis.  Maiden Lane III would buy CDOs from AIGs counterparties and then tear up the credit insurance issued by AIG. In the days after the creation of Maiden Lane III, AIG and the Fed approached about 20 counterparties with an offer to buy CDOs. By the end of the year, Maiden Lane III had paid nearly $30bn for CDOs with a face value of $62bn. AIG paid $32.5bn to terminate the credit insurance on the CDOs, recognising a 2008 loss of $21bn. Counterparties received 100 cents on the dollar for the CDOs, but the prices paid by Maiden Lane III suggested that the CDOs were worth 47 cents on the dollar.
