 The Rise And Fall Of AIG&#8217;s Financial Products Unit TPM Muckraker- By  Zachary Roth and Ben Buchwalter - March 20, 2009,  9:36AM As we delve into the back-story behind the collapse of AIG, we thought it might be useful to lay out some key factual information about the firm&#8217;s Financial Products unit, known as AIGFP, whose disastrous credit default swaps brought the company to its knees. How and when did AIG Financial Products get started? Who ran it, and from where? How did it get into credit default swaps, and what exactly are they, anyway? And how did this group of derivatives traders eventually wind up bringing down one of the most admired financial firms in the world? So here&#8217;s a rundown of some of the key developments in AIGFP&#8217;s tumultuous history &#8212; many gleaned from a superb three-part December 2008 Washington Post series on the unit (parts 1, 2, and 3): From a Humble Start, A Swift Rise - AIGFP was founded on January 27, 1987, when three Drexel Burnham Lambert traders, led by finance scholar Howard Sosin, convinced AIG CEO Hank Greenberg to branch out from his core insurance business by creating a division focused on complex derivatives trades that took advantage of AIG&#8217;s AAA credit rating. - In addition to his two partners, Randy Rackson and Barry Goldman, Sosin brought 10 other staffers from DBL with him &#8212; including future AIGFP CEO Joseph Cassano. The team of 13 set to work in a windowless makeshift room, at first without full-size desks and chairs, in an accounting office on Third Avenue. AIGFP&#8217;s first significant deal, made in July 1987, was a $1 billion interest-rate swap with the Italian government. - In its first 6 month of existence, the unit earned more than $60 million. Under the agreement that Greenberg and Sosin had signed, 38 percent of that went immediately to AIGFP, with the remaining 62 percent going to AIG proper. Crucially, the agreement also called for AIGFP received its profits up front, even though its deals generally took years to play out. AIG itself, not AIGFP, would be on the hook down the road if things went wrong. This arrangement would be modified, but only partially, after Sosin left in 1993. MORE HERE Posted in aig, Bailout, Wall Street Tagged: aig, Bailout, federal reserve, Financial Crisis, Joseph Cassano, Wall Street      
