(Editors Note: This post is based on an op-ed piece by Lucian Bebchuk published in todays Wall Street Journal.)  The AIG bailoutat $170 billion and risingmay end up as the costliest rescue of a single firm in history. There is much debate about bonuses paid to AIGs executives. But there is far too little debate on the governments willingness to back all of AIGs obligations. The company claims any failure by the government to do so would have catastrophic consequences. This claim is exaggerated. Serious consideration should be given to forcing AIGs partners in derivative transactionswhich are mainly buyers of credit default swaps from the companyto take a substantial haircut. AIG is a holding company, conducting most of its business through insurance subsidiaries organized as separate legal entities. The financial products subsidiary, which has produced the huge losses from derivative transactions that brought AIG down, is also a separate legal entitybut AIG has guaranteed the subsidiarys obligations. While AIG has thus far been able to cover derivative losses using government funds, the possibility of large additional losses must be recognized. AIG recently stated that it still has about $1.6 trillion in notional derivatives exposure. Suppose, for example, that AIG ends up with losses equal to, say, 20% of this exposurethat is, $320 billion. Suppose also that the value of AIGs current assets, including the shares in its insurance subsidiaries, is $160 billion. In this scenario, the governments fully backing AIGs obligations would produce an additional loss of $160 billion for taxpayers. Should the government be prepared to do so? The alternative would be to put AIG into Chapter 11. In this case, AIGs creditors, including its derivative counterparties, would obtain the companys assets. They would end up with a 50% recovery on their claims, bearing those $160 billion of losses themselves. AIG recently stated that failure to meet all of the companys obligations could lead to a run on the bank by customers seeking to surrender insurance policies and would have sweeping impacts across the economy. But insurance policy holders wouldnt be at risk if AIG failed to meet its obligations. The insurance subsidiaries are not responsible for the debts of their parent AIG, and insurance policy claims are backed both by the subsidiaries required reserves and state insurance funds. Still, what about the concern that losses to derivative counterpartieswhich are now known to include major U.S. and foreign bankswould substantially deplete the capital of some of them? That concern would be best addressed by the U.S. government (or foreign governments in the case of their banks) infusing capital directlyin return for sharesinto the banks that need it. There is no reason to back AIGs obligations as an instrument for infusing capital (with taxpayers getting nothing in return) into, say, Goldman Sachs or Spains Banco Santander. It is true that the collapse of Lehman Brothers last September led to a crisis of confidence among depositors in banks and money market funds, which had a dramatic effect on markets. Letting AIGs derivative counterparties take a significant haircut, however, should not lead to such a crisis. AIGs obligations are to derivative counterparties, not to depositors. Moreover, governments world-wide are now committed to backing fully the claims of depositors in financial institutions. It is important to understand that the government can also employ intermediate approaches between fully backing AIGs derivative obligations and no backing. For example, the government could place AIG in Chapter 11, but commit to provide supplemental coverage that would make up any difference between the value that creditors would get from AIGS reorganization and, say, an 80% recovery. Such an approach could allow setting different haircuts for different classes of creditors. The government, for example, might elect not to provide such supplemental coverage to executives owed money by AIG. At a minimum, the government should conduct stress tests, estimating potential losses in alternative scenarios, and formulate a policy on the magnitude and fraction of derivative losses it would be willing to cover. A policy that doesnt fully back AIGs obligations should be seriously considered.
