The world in crisisThe world ruling classes are in a state of complete panic withGermanys Angela Merkel remarking that bankruptcy for entire states isnow not so far fetched.Job losses, bank collapses and manufacturing slowdowns are appearing in all major sectors of the world economy. Obamas stimulus package of 787 billion dollars was soon followed bythe threatened collapse of insurance giant, AIG, which has now to bebailed out as they cant let whats described as a cornerstone of theUS economy go down.The last few months have seen the sharpest contraction in US growthsince the crisis of 1973 with GDP in the last few months of 2008declining by 6.2%. The data for 2009 seems to be much worse withfigures constantly being marked down. With record lows expected inconsumer spending figures the US is also facing a huge haemorrhaging ofjobs  unemployment rose by 2.6 million since 2008 with 1.9million ofthose jobs lost in the last 4 months alone. This represents thegreatest decline in employment since 1945. With 12 million now jobless,half a million a month now and increasing, more and more americans arehaving to subsist on foodstamps.The worlds 2nd biggest economy, Japan, is declaring its worst resultsfor 35 years. Japans industrial output dropping by 20% this quarteralone while exports have fallen by a shocking 40% and unemploymentreaching an all time high of over 6%. The Japanese government have justsigned a new freetrade agreement with other ASEAN countries but thathasnt stopped the accusations of protectionism going back and forthbetween various asian countries.Australias economic prospects are hugely dependent on Japan as theJapanese market is the biggest destination for Australian exports. Oneof Japans largest companies, Toyota, has announced their firstoperating losses since the 1930s.The collapse of the USA and Japan is having an effect on the Chineseeconomy. Its expected that unemployment across south east asia willreach 97 million this year, which is an obscene figure. 600,000 firmsclosed in the last year in China. The government has responded likemany others with a stimulus package totalling 586 billion. China is anet exporter but faces a 17.5% drop in demand for its products withfigures for this quarter expected to be much worse. Indonesia has puttariffs on Chinese goods which hugely increases tensions in the region.These tensions are playing out on a wider scale too with the US andChina throwing similar accusations at each other.The 3rd largest economy in Asia is the Indian which is still, likeChina, declaring growth. Although the predicted 8% growth has beenrevised downwards to 5% by some commentators who also expect that thesefigures will fall even more in 2009. There are calls from sections ofthe Indian ruling class for measures to stimulate growth but the Indianeconomy is limited to mainly domestic demand.If we take a brief look at Brazil their industry figures just releasedshow a 12.4% drop since december alone with exports down by a massive29%. Governments across South America, like elsewhere, are slashinginterest rates massively.In the EU and the region from the EU heart to Russia there are massiveproblems. The World Bank, The European Development Bank and the EU bankfor reconstruction have given a 24 billion loan to Hungary and othersbut the Hungarian government has announced that they need at least tentimes as much. Even the Russian economy which is a huge exported of Oiland Gas now believes that even a rise of Oil prices to 55 dollars abarrell wont keep their economy out of danger.From Ireland through the UK all the way over to the Baltic states anddown to Spain, Portugal and Greece the bankruptcy of states has rulingclasses in a state of absolute fear.We cant allow ourselves though to be overwhelmed by the scale of thecrisis and give in to the fear that has infected the whole world rulingclass and the majority of working class people worldwide who arefearful of losing jobs and homes. The ruling classes are getting awaywith cuts in places like Ireland, not because of their strength, butbecause of the weakness of the opposition forces. People want to fightback and their fear can easily, as we have seen here in Ireland,translate into militant actions. Socialists need to give a lead andshow that we have answers to the questions people are asking, we havean alternative vision of society that everyday matches the conclusionsthat more and more people are reaching for.Capitalism wont collapse, it needs to be pushed over. The crisis is anopportunity. We have a chance to escape once and for all from thismadness. The world economy is set to contract for the 1st time since1945. The ruling class has to increase the rate of exploitation ofworkers in order to get profit rates up again and start the entireridiculous process going again.We can and must stand up give voice to the massive anger thats out there. Its time to say no more!
