  I&amp;#039;m not having much luck with credit cards at the moment!      I telephoned Nationwide Credit Card services a few months ago because I was not receiving any credit card statements. I understand this does happen sometimes when a customers balance is at 0.00, which mine was. I explained to a customer service rep that I was concerned that, as I wasnt getting any statements, their records might not be up to date as to my current address. I felt this could be an issue because I remember receiving an annual charge on this card for Card Protection Insurance of 21.75. The rep checked my address, which  was  up to date and promised to start sending out my statements again (which I have now been receiving).       I also informed the rep I wished to cancel my card protection insurance. I was then transferred to someone else who supposedly dealt with card protection insurance. I explained I wished to cancel my card protection insurance because I have a similar scheme on my joint account with a different bank so I did not need this cover any more. I was told that it would be cancelled and that I would receive confirmation in the post. This hasnt arrived.       I have this month found that CPP (the card protection insurers) have charged my Nationwide credit card for card protection insurance. I have today called Nationwide Card Service who put me through to CPP to query this and they say they have no record of me having cancelled this policy and moreover they still had my old address registered, so I wasnt getting any form of reminder of when the policy was due. It also turns out that CPP are completely separate to Nationwide so telling Nationwide is not enough to ensure it is cancelled. They now say they cannot cancel the policy until next year!       I have complained in writing to Nationwide, stating that I would appreciate an apology and an explanation as to why this mistake has happened. I wanted to know who I was put through to when I first called up to cancel,  why there seems to be no record of this request with CPP and why I have been charged? I hold Nationwide Credit Card Services responsible for this mistake, because i rang up in good faith was pased through to someone who promised to cancel this insurance which hasn&amp;#039;t happened and now I&amp;#039;ve been charged. As a valued customer, and as a sign of good faith I feel that they should refund me the fees I have incurred. To be continued....         
