 THE jesters would have it that this was Paul Fegan's application for Ahmed Fahour's job over at NAB. If so, St George's managing director has made a pretty compelling case.Yes, Fegan's 10-month update and full-year profit guidance included a slice or two of performance-enhancing flummery. But hey, let's cut The Paul some slack. If ever there was a time to focus on the brighter side of banking life's balance sheet, this is his. Not only is Fegan's bank under an $18 billion offer from Westpac but, in the face of surging credit costs and sagging macro and micro economic circumstance, his team has essentially delivered on the stretch targets he committed them to back in May. Mind you, there really is no escaping the fact that St George's second-half figures include a small team of non-recurring items, the most material of which appears to be a $17 million gain on the sale of the bank's Visa shares. That Visa profit represents a fair-sized chunk of Fegan's forecast 2008 EPS gain. Given St George hits his 8-10 per cent growth target, then Fegan will have added about $130 million to profit over 2008. At $17 million, the Visa sale accounts for 13 per cent of that gain. In other words, the Visa sale equates to about 1.5 per cent of the foreshadowed EPS gain. Nonetheless, yesterday's numbers underscore the resilience of St George's business model. Despite an overwhelming exposure to NSW, the most vulnerable ot the east coast economies, St George has emerged from 12 months of banking turmoil with profit intact and balance sheet comparatively unscathed. The Paul's promise of better than peer performance over the second half seems certain to be fulfilled and his target EPS growth is within reach. But only, mind you, if the bank meets internal expectations of significantly stronger trading through August and September. The way the self-assured Fegan sees it, the bank has ticked off all the May commitments. St George's 2008 funding is in place and pre-funding for 09 is under way, it has repriced a wide portfolio of products in the face of surging funding costs while maintaining or building market and recast SGIA's bleeding portfolio by driving out of equities and into less volatile investment sectors. And, like only Westpac among the Pillars, Fegan is able to celebrate risk management. St George has no exposure to that trio of destructive acronyms, CDOs, CLOs or CDSs, and its provisioning is expected to fall in the second half. Importantly too, Fegan has continued to meet crucial cost reduction hurdles, reducing the bank's key expense to income ratio to 40.5 per cent for the 10 months to July. Leading the way on cost management delivers St George the capacity to cope with high-funding charges, Fegan insists. St George says a 1 per cent expense advantage over its competitors delivers it the ability to absorb additional funding costs of 6-8 basis points without affecting competitiveness. So, the argument goes, St George's 3 per cent cost advantage over the Big Four delivers the equivalent of 20 basis points in additional funding costs. That figure, it has to be said, looks a tad optimistic. It is surely a safe bet that St George's better-than-peer cost-to-income performance is already embedded in its budgeting. So it is hard to see how it added anything to the bank's flexibility when the A+ banks began being slapped with higher funding costs. Of course, the reason that is so important right now is that a central logic to Westpac's move to suck St George into a new $65billion banking conglomerate is that it will deliver a more resilient investment to the fifth bank's faithful shareholders. The fact is AA banks are paying substantially less for their funds right now and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As it stands, this means St George is paying something like 12 basis points more for its wholesale funds than Westpac or the other Pillars. The board of St George has unanimously endorsed and recommended the Westpac deal, pending regulatory approval and a fair and reasonable finding from an independent expert. The ACCC is expected to clear the merger within the next week or so and the independent expert's report needs to be sent to ASIC by the end of the month. On occasion over the past couple of months there has been a sense that some inside St George would not mind too much if the independent expert came out against the merger terms. Back in June when Westpac slipped under $20, there might well have been good reason to, at the very least, think again on the terms of the deal. But Westpac's value accretion in the wake of the market's appreciation of the best-of-breed financial performance means rejection would seem very, very unlikely. Which might well be why yesterday Fegan delivered his most certain public endorsement of the deal. He said Westpac's offer remained in the best interests of shareholders and St George's board still intended to recommend it to shareholders at a scheme meeting. End of story. At least, for now. Mindanao ignites WHILE Xstrata and Indophil continue their commercial skirmish over Mindanao's copper bonanza at Tampakan, things have turned decidedly bloody in what is already the most dangerous place in the Philippines. There have apparently been a series of military engagements between the Philippine army and a cohort of Muslim rebels in southern Mindanao. Those clashes were triggered by the rebels' capture of several townships in the south following the central Government's refusal to ratify plans for a Muslim homeland in Mindanao. There are reports that 130,000 people are fleeing the hotspots and there is growing fear that the clashes might bring to an abrupt end five years of relative peace on the island state. Needless to say, this is very bad news for both Indophil and Xstrata, although it is hard to assess which of the two is more impinged by events. Xstrata has offered $540 million to Indophil, whose only material asset is a 34 per cent stake in Tampakan, a copper deposit that everyone reckons can support a 540,000 tonnes a year mine for 25 years. Xstrata knows that only too well because it owns 62.5 per cent of Tampakan and is the project operator. Xstrata's most immediate problem is that a consortium including Indophil's managing director Richard Laufmann and his Hong Kong mates at Crosby Capital have said they are preparing to up the ante for Tampakan's minority owner. In the meantime, over the past couple of working days there has been some pretty heated dialogue between Indophil and Xstrata over the Australian company's claim that it has rights to distribute a pro-rata share of any output from Tampakan, a project that is expected to require $US3.9 billion to develop. And there, as they say, is the rub. Everyone is talking about Tampakan as though it can actually happen. But this project has already been 20 years in the making and, if the political, ethnic and now military tensions in Mindanao do not go away, Tampakan's copper might well still be there two decades from now. 
