 Source : Cleartrip (Business Wire India) Cleartrip, Indias favorite online travel portal has teamed up with Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd. (Tata AIG General) to offer domestic travel insurance solutions to its customers. This new product called TravInsure can be purchased by customers through a simple tick while making their domestic airline bookings. TravInsure covers Cleartrip travelers against the following pitfalls of modern day travel:-- Flight delays-- Medical expenses incurred while traveling-- Lost baggage-- Flight cancellations due to sickness, injury or Death. The policy can be bought online for just Rs. 129 per round trip. The policy is valid for the duration of a round trip cross-sector travel or 30 days from the date of booking. Cleartrip now offers travel insurance to meet the changing needs of the Indian consumer. Speaking about TravInsure by Tata AIG General, Mr. Noel Swain, Vice President -Marketing Cleartrip, said, At Cleartrip, we always try to add more value to the services we offer to our customers. This initiative will ensure that travelers feel safe and secure while using our services. And what better partner than Tata AIG General which offers excellent quality in their travel insurance products. Commenting on the association, Mr. Gaurav D. Garg, Managing Director, Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd. said, We are delighted to tie up with Cleartrip to offer a meaningful yet an inexpensive product to their customers. As modern India takes to the skies, it is becoming increasingly important to offer greater value to customers. With this partnership Tata AIG General has consolidated dominance in the space of Domestic Travel Insurance in addition to leadership in overseas Travel Insurance. The TravInsure policy will cover damages ranging from Rs1,500 to Rs 7,50,000. About CleartripCleartrip (www.cleartrip.com) was launched in July 2006 and is amongst the top three leading OTAs in India with 35% market share. Cleartrip is very customer oriented and offers convenience, choice without confusion, multiple payment options, competitive prices, exclusive destination information and unparalleled customer support. Cleartrip is built on the promise of providing a reliable, simple and responsible service by offering comprehensive products with competitive pricing, with the mission to making travel simple for the consumers Through the Cleartrip online website, leisure and business travelers can compare prices and purchase air and hotel products. The current range of products offered by Cleartrip includes search and booking for domestic and International flights, search and booking for over 5200 domestic hotels and 58,000 international hotels, holiday packages, mobile services for travel, and global destination guides.Headquartered at Mumbai, Cleartrip has projected a turnover of Rs 1200 Cr. (USD 300 Million) in current fiscal 2008-2009. Cleartrip.com has over 300 employees on board and offers 24x7 customer service.About Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd Tata AIG General Insurance Company Ltd. (Tata AIG) is a joint venture between the Tata Group and American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Tata AIG combines the strength and integrity of the Tata Group with AIG's international expertise and financial strength. The Tata Group holds 74 per cent stake in Tata AIG, while AIG holds the balance 26 per cent stake. Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited, which started its operations in India on January 22, 2001 offers the complete range of insurance for automobile, home, personal accident, travel, energy, marine, property and casualty, as well as several specialized financial lines. The Tata Group The Tata Group is one of India's largest and most respected business conglomerates, with revenues in 2006-07 of $28.8 billion (Rs129,994 crore), the equivalent of about 3.2 per cent of the country's GDP, and a market capitalisation of $72.2 billion as on December 6, 2007. Tata companies together employ some 289,500 people. The Tata Group has operations in more than 85 countries across six continents, and its companies export products and services to 80 countries. American International Group, Inc. (AIG) American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.KEYWORDS:Business, Leisure 
