 Business Editors/Insurance WritersEVANSVILLE, Ind.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 5, 2008--American International Group, Inc. (AIG) will report its second quarter 2008 earnings on Wednesday, August 6, 2008 after the close of the market. AIG's earnings release and financial supplement will be available in the Investor Information section of www.aigcorporate.com following the filing of AIG's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2008. AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Robert B. Willumstad will host a conference call, broadcast live over the Internet, on Thursday, August 7 at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss AIG's second quarter results. American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) and American General Finance Corporation (AGFC) are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of AIG, and therefore information material to AGF and AGFC may be disclosed in AIG's filings, earnings release and financial supplement, and/or discussed on the conference call.The audio webcast of the conference call can be accessed at www.aigwebcast.com.A replay will be archived through Thursday, August 21, 2008 at the same URL as well as by telephone. For domestic callers, the telephone replay number is 888-568-0907. For international callers, the telephone replay number is 402-998-1579. Information regarding AGF and AGFC also will be available on AGF's website, http://www.agfinance.com.It should be noted that the remarks made on the conference call may contain projections concerning financial information and statements concerning future economic performance and events, plans and objectives relating to management, operations, products and services, and assumptions underlying these projections and statements. It is possible that AIG's, AGFs and AGFCs actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these projections and statements. Factors that could cause AIG's, AGFs and AGFCs actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections and statements are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors of their respective Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of their respective most recently filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. AIG, AGF and AGFC are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter their projections and other statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Remarks made on the conference call may also contain certain non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation of such measures to the comparable GAAP figures will be included in the Second Quarter 2008 Financial Supplement available in the Investor Information Section of AIG's corporate website, www.aigcorporate.com.American General Finance, Inc. (AGF) and its subsidiary, American General Finance Corporation (AGFC), are financial services holding companies with subsidiaries engaged in consumer finance and credit insurance businesses. Headquartered in Evansville, Indiana, AGF and its subsidiaries operate more than 1,550 offices in 45 states, the United Kingdom, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. They offer direct consumer and home equity loans, retail sales financing, and other credit-related products. AGF and AGFC are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc.American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.
