 CREDIT quality, and whether it's as sound as the nation's banks continue to insist, remains the key issue for the sector after the modest increase in 2008 earnings for Commonwealth Bank of Australia.CBA's 3 per cent boost in cash earnings per share, which was in line with market expectations, was achieved despite the impairment charge more than doubling to $930 million. But the bank's apparent conservatism failed to convince some analysts, with Citi suggesting yesterday that cynics could argue the increase was funded by a favourable second-half tax ruling worth $150 million. 'So while the stock price outperformance (on Wednesday) indicated at least some investors took comfort in the stance taken by management, we are not yet convinced,' Citi analyst Craig Williams said. Mr Williams predicted a further big increase in provisions, with CBA's coverage less than its peers, as well as significantly lower 6 per cent credit growth next year compared with CBA's more optimistic 9-11 per cent. Deutsche Bank's Ross Brown also noted that CBA's provisioning fell short of its more cautious peers, even with the $212 million overlay provision for tougher economic times announced by chief executive Ralph Norris. He said CBA's lending book was more heavily skewed to less risky home lending, but even with that excluded, collective provisions as a percentage of non-housing loans was only 80 basis points compared with 112-140 basis points for the other three major banks. CBA's 3 per cent increase in cash earnings per share, announced on Wednesday, translated to a 7 per cent boost in net profit to $4.8 billion. The bank reported strong market-share growth in deposits and home lending, although higher funding costs crimped revenue from the home loan portfolio by 5 per cent. In line with peers, CBA stock again weakened yesterday, shedding 52c to $43.53. Goldman Sachs JB Were said the bank, 'whether by design or good luck', had benefited by avoiding the kind of exposures that were now plaguing National Australia Bank and ANZ. Also, while the bank was not seeing any signs of systemic weakness in credit quality, it had taken the opportunity to set aside $212 million for an economic overlay. Goldman analyst James Freeman said this provided a lot of coverage in areas such as mortgages and margin lending, but it could quickly be absorbed by losses in unsecured retail and commercial lending, with the recessed New Zealand economy another cause for concern. 'As such, while the $212 million is definitely a step in the right direction, if we see a sharp deterioration in the credit environment, this clearly will not be enough,' Mr Freeman said. 
