 Citigroup, UBS and a handful of investors and high street banks were left holding 288 million of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley (B&amp;amp;B) stock yesterday after shareholders snubbed the lender's 400 million rights issue. The underwriters of the capital raising, Citigroup and UBS, had until today to sell a rump of 598 million shares that were left over after the rights issue closed last Friday. Shareholders took up their right to buy only 28 per cent of the 1.4 million new shares on offer in the issue. Citigroup and UBS were forced to admit yesterday that they could not get rid of the rump at the 55p-a-share subscription price. B&amp;amp;B's stock has been trading at below the rights price for weeks. B&amp;amp;B said: The underwriters have informed the company that they are of the opinion that it is unlikely that any subscribers can be procured. B&amp;amp;B's four largest investors - Insight, Legal &amp;amp; General, M&amp;amp;G and Standard Life - will take up just over 170 million shares from the rump as part of an earlier promise they made to support the rights issue. This stake is worth about 93.5 million. These shareholders are also thought to have taken up some of their rights to shares in the first round of the cash-call. Citigroup and UBS will share the remaining 427 million among themselves and six high street banks that were encouraged by the Financial Services Authority to support B&amp;amp;B's recapitalisation as sub-underwriters. An agreement between the underwriters and the banks is expected to leave HSBC, Lloyds TSB, HBOS, Barclays, Abbey and Royal Bank of Scotland with about 120 million of shares. The underwriters are expected to retain about 136 million shares, worth about 75 million. It will not be clear until next Friday, when B&amp;amp;B announces its interim results, what stakes the investors and retail banks have in the lender. The underwriters and high street banks are prevented from selling their new shares for another 20 days, as part of a lockup agreement. The investors can sell their shares but are expected to be long-term holders of the stock. 
