 02:28am BIG banks and credit unions are joining forces to protect the $10 billion they collect annually in fees and charges.It comes as state governments move to fast-track new laws that would limit the ability of lenders to hit borrowers with new fees and charges. The push by the states comes amid speculation that the major banks - ANZ, NAB, Westpac and Commonwealth Bank - and regional players such as Suncorp Metway are preparing to impose a new layer of fees on borrowers. State consumer affairs ministers have agreed to introduce 'fairness tests' to scrutinise banks pushing for new fees on credit products such as home mortgages and car loans. Documents seen by the Herald SunThey would require banks and lenders to prove they had suffered financial loss or higher costs before raising fees. Speculation is rife that the big banks are about to unveil new fees to boost revenue lost to the global credit crisis. 'These new fees would not be based on cost recovery,' a prominent bank source said. Research by the Reserve Bank of Australia found that the nation's 19 largest banks collected $10.5 billion in fees and charges last year - a rise of $6.6 billion over 10 years. The crackdown on fees will be discussed at a meeting of state and federal consumer affairs ministers next week. The RBA has conceded the economy is slowing, pointing to interest rate relief, probably next month. Some senior bank economists fear the economy has turned so sharply rates could fall by at least one full percentage point in the next year. After leaving the cash rate unchanged for a fifth month at 7.25 per cent, RBA Governor Glenn Stevens said domestic demand was being kept in check by high interest rates and petrol prices. 'The board's view is that scope to move towards a less restrictive stance of monetary policy in the period ahead is increasing,' Mr Stevens said. Economic indicators have shown retail spending down and property and home buyers and investors shunning the property market. NAB chief economist Alan Oster said: 'It could be (half a per cent cut) by Christmas.' The NAB is now predicting rates to be slashed progressively over the coming year from the current rate of 7.25 per cent to 'at least' 6 per cent. Depending on whether the banks pass on all official cuts, it could mean standard variable rate of 8.33 per cent, compared with today's 9.58 per cent. Treasurer Wayne Swan yesterday flagged he was ready to toughen up competition in the banking sector if future rate cuts were not passed on. 1200 characters left (So you don't have to retype your details each time you send feedback.) We welcome your comments on this story. Comments are submitted for possible publication on the condition that they may be edited. Please provide your full name. We also require a working email address - not for publication, but for verification. The location field is optional. .  at 11:44PMMore Marketsat 04:10PM  Drop us a line at business@news.com.au PETROL companies are still ripping people off at the bowser, despite the biggest fall in prices in four years, the NRMA says.  AUSTRALIA'S richest man Andrew 'Twiggy' Forrest plans to give away nearly all his fortune before he dies. 84 comments More Business PAULA Wriedt's suicide attempt has taken a new twist with allegations the senior minister had an affair with her former government driver.  AUSTRALIA'S richest man Andrew 'Twiggy' Forrest plans to give away nearly all his fortune before he dies. More business PETROL companies are still ripping people off at the bowser, despite the biggest fall in prices in four years, the NRMA says. More money REGGIE Sorensen, the popular winner of Network Ten's Big Brother 2003 series, has told Woman's Day she is going blind. More entertainment TIGER Airways Australia will set up a second Australian base in Adelaide from next year. 
