 A sale of Lehman Brothers has for months been considered by many as the cleanest solution to the woes of the embattled Wall Street firm. Yet, as its reported difficulties in selling a major stake or its assets have shown, there is a dire shortage of would-be suitorsBut the Korea Development Bank may be one. A spokesman for the state-run bank told Reuters today, that 'We are studying a number of options and are open to all possibilities, which could include Lehman.'The chief executive of the bank is Min Euoo-sung, who led Lehman's operations in South Korean until earlier this year. Korea Development had been close to taking a 50 percent stake in Lehman, but the talks broke down over price, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. The idea that there is still interested in doing a deal is driving shares of Lehman up more than 11 percent in early trading.Today's report that a deal just might be back on comes on the heels of a note by banking analyst Richard Bove that Lehman is ripe for a takeover. 'Investors are unwilling to accept any positive view of the company; management is unwilling to sell out at a deeply distressed value,'' Bove wrote on Thursday. ''The stage is set for a hostile bid to take over the whole company.''If its asset management unit Neuberger Berman is worth $8 billion to $13 billion as many have suggested, then investors are valuing Lehman, with a market value of $10 billion, at nearly zero, indicating that Lehman is a great buying opportunity, Bove noted.Heidi Moore on the Wall Street Journal's Deal Journal blog points out that there are number of reasons why a hostile takeover does not make sense. They rarely work in investment banking, and are unlikely when employees own more than 30 percent of the firm's stock as is the case at Lehman. So who might buy Lehman? Let's trot out the usual suspects: Overseas banks: At any other time, the market plight of Lehman would be a great opportunity for a foreign bank looking to become a major player in U.S. investment banking. In this time of uncertainty, no one seems likely to take the risk. For Barclays of Britain, Lehman would be a great fit, but Bob Diamond, the president of the Barclays investment banking unit, has recently sought to throw cold water on such speculation, saying that the bank may be interested in acquiring a wealth manager, but not an investment bank. Other big European banks, like UBS, are mired in their own problems, while banks like HSBC or Deutsche Bank have no need for a Wall Street acquisition. The big Japanese banks have huge cash war chests, but having been burned before on Wall Street, are more likely to use that for overseas acquisitions of commercial and regional banks. Blackstone Group: One of the leading link-ups that have been talked about, in large part because Steve Schwarzman is a Lehman alum. A deal makes sense in many ways: Lehman's investment management business would greatly bolster Blackstone's asset management business and would accelerate its push to diversify beyond buyout funds. Blackstone would become in one stroke, a full-fledged major Wall Street firm. But by going public and launching a push into philanthropy, Schwarzman has signaled that he is entering the next stage of his career, and probably has no desire to take on the challenge of Lehman and the volatility and risks that come with a huge trading operation. And Blackstone shareholders, already an unhappy lot, would sream. Going private: Taking the firm private makes the most sense in strictly deal-making terms: the stock is arguably cheap, and with a sharply reduced market value and the possibility of persuading stock-owning employees to convert their shares into equity in a private firm, it is very doable. In July, an analyst with Fox-Pitt suggested as much in a report, saying that Lehman could go private at a 25 percent premium to its stock price. As a way to rescue the firm, however, it is a non-starter. The only overt sign of the market's confidence in an investment firm is its stock price. Going private, and the limited disclosure that comes with it, would only generate more doubts among counterparties and partners. That would be true as well if Lehman were acquired by a private-equity firm like Citadel Investments or J.C. Flowers, which had been interested in Bear Stearns during that manic week in March. As  in June: 'The problem with any private-equity acquisition is that one an investment bank disappears into private equity's black box, no one really knows for sure how strong or weak it is. Sure, the SEC will continue to regulate it, but the SEC is an ineffective bank regulator at the best of times. And one might hope that the Fed would continue to keep an eye on things, but they're not going to be communicating what they know to the market. Which leaves basically the ratings agencies and whatever disclosures the bank still has to make as an issuer of publicly-traded bonds. Neither provide anything like the level of granularity and detail that one gets from a NYSE-listed company.'So is there anyone left? 
