 AS the dogs start barking for the head of ANZ chairman Charles Goode, the spotlight is shifting to who will be his successor. Speculation is mounting that David Crawford, a former Westpac director, might be tapped if Goode opts to retire or is voted off the board at the next election in December.Goode has left himself in a Catch 22 situation. If he decides not to run for re-election at the end of the year, it will be seen as defeat on his part and his 17 years of service will be tainted. If he decides to battle it out, he faces the danger that some institutional investors, including 452 Capital, and corporate governance bodies recommend their members vote against him. Goode is hoping a review of the securities lending scandal that culminated in the near-collapse of Tricom and failure of Opes Prime and Chimaera's Primebroker business will absolve him and the board, on the basis that they didn't know what was going on. Crawford and ANZ chief executive Mike Smith lead that inquiry. A draft report of the review leaked by ANZ board sources to the AFR during the week claims directors were not told about the lending model used for clients such as Opes Prime. The report, which is due out later this month, claims this did not go to the board's risk committee. That had better be right, because there will be a lot of whistleblowers standing in line if it is not the case. For instance, if ANZ's credit and trading risk committee knew of the securities lending policies and kept members of the board briefed, this will come out. It is hard to comprehend that certain members of the board -- specifically those on the risk committee -- did not know that the bank had extended credit to Tricom to the tune of $2 billion a year ago, putting it on a loan-value ratio of more than 90 per cent, on the basis that ANZ was granted security over the shares the brokers' clients pledged in return for their securities lending lines. It had a similar arrangement with Opes Prime and Chimaera. But the problems at ANZ are far deeper than the securities lending business. No matter what the review concludes, there need to be dramatic changes at ANZ. Some heads need to roll at both board and senior management levels. The brutal reality is, if the bank wants to win back credibility, it needs to clear up its risk management procedures, which led to its exposure to Opes Prime, Tricom, Chimaera, Centro, Bill Express, US monoline insurance and others. It also needs to look at its strategy and rethink how it can get a better performance from its assets. Besides poor risk management procedures, which have had a detrimental impact on the bank's reputation and so far resulted in write-downs to the tune of $2.18 billion for 2008, ANZ is suffering from a schizophrenic strategy and poor performance compared to the other banks -- under Goode's watch. Goode joined the board 17 years ago, became chairman in 1995 and is an ex-officio member of all board committees. Put simply, he has been there throughout all the mess. Westpac's latest update reveals a bank with solid risk management procedures and an expectation that its annual cash earnings will grow between 6 per cent and 8 per cent, despite slowing economic growth. The update is in sharp contrast to ANZ and NAB, which recently detailed more than $2 billion of combined provisions after the global liquidity crisis. This news would no doubt stand Crawford in good stead, given that he served on the Westpac board for five and a half years before surprising the market in December and retiring from the board. Whether Crawford is interested in the job or not, one thing is clear: Goode's replacement will have to be external. In the past six months, ANZ's share price has fallen by almost a third, down 32 per cent to $17.35. This is far worse than the other big banks, with NAB down 24 per cent, Commonwealth Bank down 13 per cent and Westpac down 5 per cent. ANZ has also underperformed the broader All Ordinaries Index by 20 per cent, as investors lose faith in the bank's exposure to a declining economy and poor asset quality. According to Wilson HTM figures, ANZ has the lowest multiple of all banks and is trading at close to its net tangible asset backing of 1.75 times, compared with 2.9 times NTA for Westpac, 3.5 times for Commonwealth Bank, 1.8 times for National Australia Bank and 3.2 times for St George. Put simply, Commonwealth Bank is making twice as much out of its NTA as ANZ and that gap widened in the past year. Recent acquisitions have raised questions about the bank's strategy. For instance, in April 2000, ANZ changed strategy and sold a sound, coherent business -- ANZ Grindlays -- that had a solid footprint in Asia and the Middle East for $2.2 billion. A few years later it changed its mind about Asia and the Middle East and embarked on a string of acquisitions. Instead of buying a strong business, it opted to buy disconnected, and sometimes minority, stakes in Asian banks, including a 10 per cent stake in Saigon Securities, a 20 per cent investment in Shanghai Rural Commercial Bank for $335 million, 60 per cent of the ANZ Vientiane Commercial Bank in Laos and 100 per cent of Citizens Security Bank in Guam. It also paid top dollar for National Bank of New Zealand in late 2003 and a month later announced a deeply discounted renounceable rights offer to raise $3.6 billion to partly fund the $5.4 billion acquisition. The rights issue diluted existing shareholders and the New Zealand bank is an albatross around its neck. In its latest update, the National Bank of New Zealand is expected to have a 10 per cent fall in profit for the year, and an even more dramatic decline from the first half of 2008 to the second. If ANZ has any hope of rebuilding its image and restoring its crumbling share price, the board needs to be cleaned out and its chairman must retire. According to the bank's 2007 annual report, two of the directors -- Margaret Jackson and Jerry Ellis -- are due to step down at the end of next year. On page 41 of the report it says: 'It is also board policy that directors appointed since July 1993 will, except in unusual circumstances, retire after 15 years of service.' Jackson and Ellis joined the board in 1994, so 2009 clocks up 15 years. The report also reveals that Goode earned $783,000 in cash and shares in 2007, compared with $700,000 in 2006. His accrued entitlements fixed under an ANZ directors' retirement scheme at September 2005 were $1.3 million. While the share price of ANZ has tumbled, this is one of the more generous packages for an Australian chairman. The board will no doubt be questioning a decision to change the constitution two years ago to remove the mandatory age of retirement for directors. If the change hadn't been made, Goode would have automatically retired at the end of the year. Until last year, the Australian banking sector had four years of unprecedented prosperity when it appeared anyone with a large banking franchise could succeed. Such times hide the weaknesses in an organisation. ANZ is in need of a thorough renewal. The first step was the departure of John McFarlane. Now the chairman should follow him out the door. 
