 LONDON (Reuters) - Terry Smith has another chance to prove to his reputation of getting what he wants, now that both companies he heads -- Collins Stewart and Tullett Prebon -- are in merger talks.Brokerage Collins Stewart , where 55-year-old Smith is chairman, is in talks about a takeover by Japanese securities group Nomura Holdings Inc , according to sources familiar with the matter.And as chief executive of the world's second-biggest interdealer broker Tullett Prebon , the helicopter pilot and former amateur boxer is also holding merger talks with U.S. broker GFI Group Inc . 'Terry likes to control his environment rather than let the environment control him,' said an investment banker who knows Collins Stewart well. 'Terry's primary role in life now is building up Tullett. I would have thought that if he could sell Collins Stewart on attractive terms, ideally for cash, he'd be very happy.' Smith, a military historian, is known among bankers for his business savvy and pugnacity. He joined Collins Stewart in 1992 as an analyst. 'He build it up to a really, really sizeable bank in quite an aggressive manner,' the investment banker said.Smith had risen to fame in London in 1992 for his book 'Accounting for Growth', which criticised clients of his employer, the investment bank then known as UBS Philips &amp;amp; Drew. The dispute cost him his job.It was also Smith who, while working for the then stockbroker BZW in the 1980s, wrote a 'sell' note on its parent, the banking group Barclays .The two deals now under discussion could test Smith's character and his ability to do business despite the odds. '(Collins Stewart's) share price ... would tend to imply that people don't think that a deal is forthcoming or that they don't think a deal is forthcoming at a level that would likely be acceptable to shareholders and therefore to Terry,' said Sarah Spikes, an analyst at Arden Partners.On the other deal, Tullett said on August 5 it was possible it would reach agreement on merger talks with GFI in four to six weeks, and people familiar with the matter said the two companies are talking on the basis of 'an equal shareholding'. But Tullett and GFI will have to agree on valuation and the structure of the merger. Disagreement on price was the main reason merger talks fell apart a year ago. 'Terry doesn't do mergers of equals ... We know Terry is not short of ego,' the investment banker said.(Editing by David Holmes)
