 A reduction in National Australia Bank Ltd's credit rating following its $803 million sub-prime write downs would be unwarranted, according to the bank's chairman Michael Chaney. NAB's shock provisions announcement prompted Standard and Poor's and Moody's ratings services to downgrade their outlook for the bank from positive to negative. Both agencies maintained NAB's AA credit rating, but said that could be revised if the bank ran into further troubles. 'We certainly don't believe any (credit) downgrade would be appropriate,' he said. 'Credit rating agencies put companies on negative watch after event's like last week's (writedowns), and they then review the situation as we go forward. 'The bank's in very good strong shape and at an operating level, things are going extremely well but that's a matter for us to sit down and talk to the ratings agencies with and to assure them that's the case.' Less than a week after NAB announced its writedowns, the bank said it would switch CEOs from John Stewart to Cameron Clyne. Mr Chaney said the bank's debt provisioning had no effect on the timing of the succession announcement. 'We've had a succession planning exercise going now for about 18 months and we'd planned for some months to make an announcement,' he said. 'When we made those provisions, we discussed whether we should delay this announcement and separate the two events, but in fact John Stewart himself said he thought it was better to go ahead with it. 'It was in the interest of the company to make sure we had a sensible transition period before he leaves at the end of December.' Mr Chaney fended off criticism of the younger Mr Clyne's inexperience, and said the new CEO had the right mix of skills to be successful in his new position. 'The characteristics required of a chief executive include very strong strategic thinking ability, very good people skills, ability to identify people and build a great team and also strong operational experience, which he's had, and Cameron had a terrific combination of those skills.' Shares in NAB plummeted 14 per cent after it announced its credit-related losses, wiping around $7 billion off the value of the bank's stock. 
