 NEW YORKAmerican International Group Inc. said Wednesday that it lost more than $5 billion in the second quarter, as struggling credit markets stripped about $5.6 billion from the value of its credit default swaps portfolio. The world's largest insurer lost $5.36 billion in the April-to-June period, or $2.06 per share. In the same period last year the company earned $4.28 billion, or $1.64 per share. After excluding one-time items, the loss per share came to 51 centsmuch worse than the 63-cent gain that analysts were anticipating. Shares of AIG fell more than 7 percent in after-hours trading, having fallen 80 cents, or 2.7 percent, to close Wednesday at $29.09. AIG's net loss included a $3.62 billion after-tax write-down in the value of what are called super-senior credit default swaps. Before taxes, this write-down amounted to $5.56 billion. Credit default swaps, which slammed AIG in previous quarters as well, are essentially insurance policies to protect bondholders against defaults. So far this year, AIG has lost more than $9.5 billion, after-tax, due to credit default swaps. Further dampening its second-quarter results, AIG's general insurance segment saw a 54.3 percent decline in operating income to $1.39 billion, and its life insurance and retirement services division saw a 10 percent decline in operating income to $2.61 billion. The company's asset management unit also suffered a decline in income. Back in AdvertisementMay, having posted two consecutive quarterly losses, AIG decided to raise capital in an effort to improve its financial standing. AIG said Wednesday that it raised approximately $20 billion in capital through the sale of $7.47 billion of common stock, $5.88 billion in equity units and $6.91 billion in certain fixed-income securities. Then in June, the insurer replaced its then-CEO Martin Sullivan with Citigroup Inc. veteran Robert Willumstad. Willumstad said at the time that he would review AIG's businesses, and that there were 'no sacred cows.' The CEO reiterated those thoughts Wednesday, and said the insurer will report on its progress in late September. 'Our second quarter results were adversely affected by the severe conditions in the housing and credit markets and a very difficult investment environment,' Willumstad said in a statement. 'These results do not reflect the earnings power and potential of AIG's businesses and it is clear that we have a lot of work to do to restore AIG's profitability to where it should be.' AIG executives will hold a conference call to discuss the company's results with investors on Thursday at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. The second quarter has been a difficult one for not only AIG, but the entire insurance industry. The sector struggled through tight financial markets, as well as storms that ravaged the Midwest and South. The Travelers Cos., Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. and MetLife Inc. all posted profit declines for the April-to-June quarter, and Genworth Financial Inc. reported a quarterly loss driven by credit-related investments. Earlier Wednesday, insurance broker Marsh &amp;amp; McLennan Cos. said its second-quarter profit tumbled 63 percent after its investment portfolio and its risk consulting and technology business lost value. Still, insurers generally have not been hit as badly as investment and commercial banks by the credit crisis.  
