 (Adds analyst comment)By Mette FraendeSYDNEY, Aug 1 (Reuters) - Suncorp Ltd (ASX: SUN.ax) , Australia's No. 2 car and home insurer, warned profits will halve this year due to turbulence in global markets, sending its shares down as much as 18 percent to a five-year low.The bank is the latest in Australia to feel the effects of volatile global equity and credit markets, which many analysts fear will further undermine slowing economic growth. 'It's another company indicating that they're having a tough time and in many ways, it should be expected. Everyone was expecting bad news from the financial sector,' said Angus Gluskie, portfolio manager at White Funds Management.Suncorp, also Australia's sixth-biggest bank, said it expects net profit after tax in fiscal 2008 to be between A$525 million ($495 million) and A$550 million, down from A$1.06 billion in fiscal 2007, and expects challenging times ahead.Suncorp shares were down 13.8 percent at A$11.53 at 0219 GMT after falling as much as 19 percent to A$10.90 in early trade, the lowest since June 2003.In the last week, National Australia Bank (ASX: NAB.ax) took an $800 million hit from its exposure to U.S. mortgages, while Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp (ASX: ANZ.ax) warned its profits would fall sharply and forecast more than $1 billion in bad debt charges.Suncorp, like NAB, said its underlying business was strong, but added that its level of non-performing loans was expected to rise and its wealth management business had been significantly impacted by the downturn in investment markets. 'It is a profit warning ... next year's earnings guidance is down 15-20 percent from what the market was expecting,' said an analyst who asked not to be identified. 'It was not a surprise to me that they did it, but it was the extent to which they did it.' BANKING PROFITS UPThe company said profit in its banking business was expected to increase by approximately 12 percent, before bad debts, tax and one-off items, at the top end of its forecast range of 10-12 percent growth.The banking unit's contribution after bad debts and before tax would be between A$630 million and A$635 million. Suncorp said it expected its insurance trading ratio to be about 10 percent for the full year, while the underlying profit for its wealth management business would likely be between A$130 million and A$135 million, down from the 2006/2007 pro-forma after-tax result of A$150 million. Suncorp said it will hold its final dividend at 55 cents per share, taking the full-year dividend to 107 cents per share, andpledged to maintain its full-year dividend at 107 cents in fiscal 2009.The payout ratio was significantly reduced going into 2009 as well as 2010, and the company would be looking to raise some debt. 'We do have some sub debt maturing during the course of the next 18 months, so we may, if the market will allow us, raise some debt,' Chief Executive John Mulcahy said at a briefing after the announcement.Mulcahy, though making it clear he was unable to make commitments, said the bank was not planning any further capital increases. 'Our view is, given our current outlook, we are certainly not assuming any further underwriting of dividends going forward, or any further capital raisings,' Mulcahy said. Suncorp is due to report its result for the year to June 30 on Aug. 26. ($1=A$1.06) (Additional reporting by Geraldine Chua and Miranda Maxwell) (Editing by Jonathan Standing) 
