 Suncorp Metway Ltd has reported a 47.7 per cent slide in annual profit after frequent bad weather and choppy investment markets hammered its bottom line, but affirmed guidance for the current year.The bank, general insurer and wealth manager on Tuesday matched its forecast delivered earlier this month for a 2007/08 net profit of $556 million.The company declared a final dividend of 55 cents, steady with the prior corresponding period.Suncorp said it expected there would be intense competition for retail deposits in the period, but that its fundamentals remained sound.It affirmed its guidance for high single digit growth in pre-tax banking earnings for 2008/09 and for its gross written premium (GWP) to grow by between four per cent and six per cent.Chief executive John Mulcahy said Suncorp was well positioned to respond to external market challenges. 'Like most Australian financial services companies, our results for the last financial year were directly and indirectly impacted by external events,' he said. 'However, underlying business performance and momentum was maintained and we are well placed to ride out any further deterioration in the market, as well as take advantage of any improvement in the industry cycle.' Suncorp said it had total non-performing loans of 1.12 per cent of risk weighted assets with write-offs at a bit less than 20 basis points. 'That's still a good performance in a deteriorating economic environment,' Mr Mulcahy told reporters. Suncorp said it had no large single name bad debt exposures.However, it was one for the lenders exposed to Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Ltd and Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Power. 'We're very comfortable at the moment with the underlying securities,' chief financial officer Chris Skilton said. 'It's not to say we're not watching them very closely though.' Mr Mulcahy said he expected the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to cut official interest rates. 'Certainly the majors have indicated that they would move their rates down,' he said. 'We're not a price setter - we usually follow - so we'll follow appropriately.' Mr Mulcahy declined to comment on speculation that Suncorp had been approached by QBE Insurance Group Ltd. 'I think QBE are a very strong business. 'They obviously had a go at IAG and they seem to have moved on from than,' he said. 'They recently bought PMI, a mortgage insurer, so I don't know what their strategy is with regards to acquisitions now.' 'We wouldn't comment on market rumour but we're quite confident that our business is performing strongly.
