  IT services group Infosys is poised to join the growing list of Indian companies to take over a UK rival after agreeing a 407m deal to buy consultancy specialist Axon Group.The Bangalore-based company, which has over 91,000 employees across the world and offers services including business process outsourcing, said its 600p-a-share, all-cash offer would strengthen its consulting capabilities and 'accelerate the achievement' of its corporate objectives.The deal would be Infosys's first in the UK, but just the latest by an Indian group. Rival conglomerate Tata has already bought the former British Steel Corus, Jaguar and Land Rover and parts of insurer Pearl Group.Infosys's offer values Axon at a 19.4pc premium to Friday's close of 502p, and 33pc over the average price of the last six months, but a third less than the peak at the end of last year. Despite the agreed deal, market sources said other parties were considering tabling a rival offer. Axon has agreed a break fee of 4m. The Surrey-based group reported a 65pc increase in profit before tax in its 2007 annual results to 36.5m. Among its major clients are Transport for London, Barclays, Xerox, Birmingham City Council, BP, Pratt &amp;amp; Whitney, Sikorsky, Goodrich Corporation, Air Canada and Aquarion. It employs 2,000 staff in Egham, Surrey.Infosys chief executive Kris Gopalakrishnan said he was 'excited' about the acquisition and added that the Axon board had already 'unanimously recommended' the offer, with its large shareholders and some key employees also supporting the deal. 'We have come across Axon in many situations and respect the way the company is run. We are not able to say exactly how the two companies will be integrated yet, as that is something we will have to discuss with its management, but we are confident they will continue to grow strongly once a deal is completed,' he said. 'About 28pc of our business comes from Europe and the UK plays an important role in that across the services we offer. We already work with clients in areas like finance and retail and by adding Axon we will become even stronger.' Roy Merritt, non executive chairman of Axon, said the deal represented a 'compelling proposition' against the global economic environment and consolidation in the IT sector.Infosys, which is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, reported a 15.5pc rise in profit before tax for the three months to June at $336m (165m).
