 WITH little hope now of a rival bid, it was no surprise that St George presented its best possible face this week to merger partner Westpac, as well as any potential interloper that may have lost its way in the sub-prime darkness.But whether Westpac (sgb.ASX:Quote,News) will be lured into paying more for a cosmetically enhanced bank is another matter, The Australian reports. The fundamental inconsistency in St George (sgb.ASX:Quote,News) chief executive Paul Fegan's pitch, which he is yet to rationalise, is why the bank should be sold at the agreed price -- 1.31 Westpac shares for each share in the target -- if its prospects are so compelling. Maybe the unpalatable truth is that the world has changed, funding is more difficult to secure for A-plus rated banks, securitisation markets remain effectively closed and St George, in reality, has left no stone unturned in its determination to hit its 2008 target of 8-10 per cent earnings per share growth. Good luck finding an interloper. A number of things stood out in Mr Fegan's rosy view of the world, delivered on Tuesday. The first was that St George needs an Olympic performance over the remaining two months of the financial year to achieve its guidance. That's not to say it won't, but if it does the market will have good reason to probe for one-off gains taken above the line, relatively low provisioning levels and back-ending of expenses and front-ending of profits. And so on. If the objective is sustainable earnings growth, it's the quality of the profit that counts, not its quantum. On Wednesday, St George said cash profit for the 10 months to the end of July was 12.5 per cent higher at $1.073 billion. Annualised, that equates to full-year earnings of $1.288 billion -- still $51 million short of the $1.339 billion profit implied by the lower range of St George's 8-10 per cent EPS growth target. St George counters that its first-half profit was dragged lower by one-off items such as increased specific provisions and higher funding costs, and the bank would have the full, second-half benefit of the mortgage repricing it began in January. But St George has also adopted a pretty optimistic view on provisioning for its big single name, or 'bad boy', corporate exposures. While other banks have raised specific provisions against property group Centro and finance group Allco, St George says its approach is different in the case of Centro because it has property security, and with Allco because the loan is performing. It also differed from the Commonwealth Bank and Westpac by not setting aside an 'overlay' provision for tougher economic times.St George mightn't have the big unsecured corporate exposures that sit on the books of the majors, but it does have a substantial low-doc portfolio with a generous sprinkling of houses in stressed western Sydney. A little tougher to get a handle on is the treatment of various one-off items in Tuesday's announcement, including proceeds from the Visa IPO and an upfront gain from the AIG insurance deal earlier this month, which is said to be in a range of $15-30 million. St George will not reveal the size of the AIG gain due to a confidentiality agreement, but insists the amount is 'not significant'. As to the $17 million Visa profit, it was taken above the line, in contrast to the treatment in the first half of a similar $77 million, pre-tax profit as a significant item. St George says that the more recent amount was 'below our threshold for significant items'. One cynic commented yesterday that the treatment seemed to depend on whether the transaction in question occurred before the Westpac bid or after, when it became imperative for St George to hit its earnings guidance. He also queried St George's abnormally low, implied cost-to-income ratio of 37.7 per cent for the four months to July, down from a reported 42.5 per cent at the first half. The bank responds that year-to-date expense growth is running at a 'very standard' 4 per cent. Intuitively, it stretches credulity to think that, when the rest of the banking industry is struggling, St George comes through with 12.5 per cent earnings growth. But the real question is not so much St George's prospects for this year, but for 2009, and where its share price would be without the back-up of a scrip offer from the sector's top-rated bank.   
