 Source : Business Wire (Business Wire India)IPC Systems, Inc., a leading provider of indispensable communications solutions to financial services firms, announced that Bank of Beijing has chosen the IQ/MAX, IPC's state-of-the-art, Voice over IP-enabled, high-performance desktop tool for its trading floor. IPC provides trading floor solutions and services to the world's largest financial services institutions in more than 40 countries, with more than 105,000 traders around the world relying on an IPC trading desktop every day and more than 75,000 of those using VoIP technology.Bank of Beijing evaluated numerous vendors in order to select a platform that would best meet the requirements for connectivity, security and dependability for its 25-position floor. Having formerly relied on PBX phones, the Bank's main focus was on transitioning to VoIP technology in order to support a technologically modern trading floor over the long-term. The IQ/MAX turret provides the Bank's traders with several powerful features including call logs, caller ID, updateable displays and an assortment of customizable options that competitors could not offer. The IPC solution allowed the Bank to install top-of-the-line technology that not only would serve its immediate demands, but also have the capacity to grow as the Bank's business expands. The transition to the recently installed floor went smoothly, with the full rollout taking less than one month to complete. 'The Bank of Beijing prides itself in using technology in innovative ways to enhance our business, and we believe that IQ/MAX offers a competitive advantage,' said a spokesperson for the Bank of Beijing. 'We are confident that IPC's global presence and industry expertise will help us stay on the leading edge of technology so that we can offer our clients the best trading services available in the marketplace.' 'We are honored that the Bank of Beijing has selected us to be their trading floor partner,' said David Dodd, managing director of IPC's Asia-Pacific region. 'We are committed to providing top-notch service and, with our direct operations in Shanghai and Beijing supplying local expertise, we hope to develop this into a long and fruitful relationship with the Bank of Beijing.' The deal with Bank of Beijing is further evidence of IPC's continued commitment to Asia-Pacific. IPC has a total of 10 offices in the Asia Pacific region and now serves more than 500 major clients in 15 cities throughout Asia, including Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup.IPC has close to 35 years experience in providing indispensable communications and network services that support vital trading functions in the global financial services market. IPC Global Solutions Operations Centers (GSOCs) provide around-the-clock service and support 24x7x365.About Bank of BeijingThe Bank of Beijing was established in 1996 with the approval of the People's Bank of China, which was formed by the merger of 90 credit cooperatives in Beijing. The bank ranks 178 among the global top 1,000 banks and 11 among Chinese banks. The Bank of Beijing's A-shares were successfully listed and issued on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in September 2007. For more information, visit www.bankofbeijing.com.cn.About IPCIPC is a leading provider of indispensable communications solutions to global enterprises. With almost 35 years of expertise, IPC provides its systems and services to the world's largest financial services firms, as well as to public safety; government; power, energy and utility; and transportation organizations. IPC offers its customers a suite of products and enhanced services that includes advanced Voice over IP technology, and integrated network and management services to over 40 countries. Based in Jersey City, NJ, IPC has over 1,300 employees throughout the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific regions. For more information, visit www.ipc.com.Statements made in this news release that state IPC's or its management's intentions, beliefs, expectations, or predictions for the future constitute 'forward looking statements' as defined by federal securities laws, which involve significant risks and uncertainties. Many risks and uncertainties are inherent in the telecommunications equipment industry. Others are more specific to our operations. The occurrence of the events described and the achievement of the expected results depend on many factors, some or all of which are not predictable or within our control. Actual results may differ materially from results discussed in these forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievement to differ materially from those described or implied in the forward-looking statements, are risks associated with substantial indebtedness, leverage and debt service, risks relating to the performance of our business and future operating results, risks of competition in our existing and future markets, loss or retirement of key executives, risks related to the notes and to high yield securities generally, general business and economic conditions, market acceptance issues, including potential technology changes and the risks inherent in new product and service introductions and the entry into new geographic markets, as well as those risk factors described in our filings with the SEC.(c)2008 IPC Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved. IPC, IQMX, IQ/MAX, MAXaccess 1000 and ICMX are trademarks of IPC. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.KEYWORDS:Business, Science &amp;amp; technology, Leisure 
