 Savers are being bombarded with new accounts paying top rates of interest as banks and building societies look to attract our money. So far this year, they have launched more than sixty-five variable-rate accounts.But you need to look behind the headline rates they advertise to see what they are really paying, since the terms and conditions are increasingly complicated.Some dock interest if you take money out of your account, others pay a large bonus of up to 1 percentage point before tax, for a while.The latest ruse is to advertise a high rate, but pay interest into a different account rather than adding it to the same account. This prevents you earning interest on you interest, so cutting your overall returns.Birmingham Midshires' new e-Saver Issue 2 comes with a headline rate of 6.52%, putting it among the very top rates. But the interest is paid monthly into another account, so you can't actually earn the 6.52% unless you are a non-tax payer. The monthly rate is actually 6.33% which works out at 5.06% after savings tax.The monthly rate still looks like a good deal for an easy-access account, but you have no chance of growing your savings pot by earning interest on interest unless you make an effort to recycle it back in each month.The new AA Internet Saver with a before-tax headline rate of 6.46% works in the same way. The monthly rate is 6.28% (or 5.02%), but once again, the interest cannot be added to your account.The new Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley My Time Notice - a notice account where you have to give thirty days' warning that you want to take money out - also pays interest monthly into another account. It advertises 6.31% before tax, worth 5.05% after tax.The Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester eSaver pays 6.5% before tax, but this includes a huge 0.88 percentage point bonus for a year. Once again, the interest is only paid monthly, bringing the first-year rate for basic-rate tax payers to 5.05%, or 6.31% before tax. But even this is not as good as it looks, especially once the bonus runs out. You earn no interest in any month you make a withdrawal - except in July. Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester's telephone-based Direct Saver, with a headline rate of 5.5% (4.4% after tax) works the same way.HSBC Online Bonus Saver and Barclays esavings Reward both dock interest in any month you make a withdrawal, when your annual rate drops to as little as 1.98% after tax with HSBC and 2.5% with Barclays. The Barclays account pays 5.25% before tax in months when you do not make a withdrawal, but this includes a 0.75 percentage point bonus for the first year. After that, you earn just 4.75% before tax (3.8% after tax), even if you do not touch your money for a year.But the worst of it is, under the Banking Code, a bank or building society does not have to write to you to let you know when your bonus has run out.
