  By Ambrose Evans-PritchardBarclays, HBOS, and other British banks may have to raise new capital to cover escalating losses on toxic debt and meet fresh needs if the economy slides into recession, according to analysts at Merrill Lynch.The US investment bank said the European banking sector as a whole had not yet revealed the full damage from US mortgage debt, warning that lenders across the region may face another $120bn in write-downs. 'We do not believe in a V-shaped recovery for bank shares. We fear they could weaken again in coming months as more bade news comes through,' he said Stuart Graham, Merrill's chief European bank strategist. 'We see a danger that European banks will have to raise new capital, though how bad it will be depends on what happens to US house prices. Barclays and HBOS may be among them. 'We are concerned about their starting level of capital and the low level of mark-downs on structured credit,' he said. Barclays' share price tumbled almost 9pc in early trading today to 346.00p and were down 1.7pc in early afternoon trading. The shares closed down 7.1pc on Wednesday. It follows a powerful rally since mid-July. HBOS is also down heavily this week.Merrill Lynch said it had conducted a 'stress test' on European lenders that assumes a total 34pc fall in US property prices. This is the current expectation built into derivatives contracts, although critics say this overstates the likely damage.The test also assumes a recession in both Britain and Europe, as well as a continued squeeze in wholesale bank funding at roughly at today's level - but far below the extremes reached in March during the Bear Stearns crisis.The test did not include possible losses from a fresh wave of defaults linked to property slumps in Spain, Ireland, Scandinavia, and potentially in Eastern Europe. There are already signs that European banks are facing write-downs from EU-area asset-backed securities. This is a new risk.The Irish brokers Goodbody issued a report this week warning that Irish house prices could fall 40pc from peak to trough. Falls of this order would present a serious challenge to some Irish lenders.Barclays wrote down 2.8bn last week. It has raised 4.5bn in fresh capital so far, mostly from Mid-East and Asian funds.The bank's interim report on August 7 shows that mix of US property debt is relatively benign, since much of it relates to earlier vintages where default rates are lower. Most of Barclays' 3,738m exposure to residential mortgage backed securites (RMBS), which stems from subprime and Alt A debt, comes from the 2005 vintage or earlier. This is marked down to 76pc. The 2006 vintage is fare worse: marked down to 30pc.Barclays also has almost 11bn of commercial mortgages, 2.6bn of monoline insurer exposure, 5bn of net leveraged finance, and a mix of other instruments. HBOS has raised 4bn of fresh money, but not without difficulty. Just 8pc of the original offering in July was taken up by investors before the deadline expired, although underwriters have since managed to find buyers. Any further requests for capital may receive an icy welcome. 'Having successfully obtained 4bn of fresh capital, this makes HBOS the best capitalized of any major UK bank and one of the best capitalized in Europe,' said a spokesman. Mr Graham said European banks were now suffering harsher conditions than US banks, explaining why their share prices are now under so much pressure. The dramatic fall in US interest rates to 2pc has created a steep 'yield curve', allowing US lenders to repair their balance sheets by taking advantage of the wide spread between short-term rates and yields on long-term bonds. This is the time-honoured method of restoring the health of banks.By raising eurozone rates to 4.25pc, the European Central Bank has created an 'inverted yield curve'. This leaves banks at the full mercy of the credit crisis. It accounts for the continuing stress in the interbank lending markets. One-month Euribor is still at 5.31pc, up well over 100 basis points since the crunch began a year ago.Richard Bernstein, Merrill's chief strategist in New York, rattled Wall Street this week with warnings that the credit crisis is 'far from over'. He predicted another wave of heavy losses after a downward lurch in US credit conditions in July. The bank downgraded rivals Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, and Morgan Stanley.The expiry of a temporary freeze on short-selling of key financial stocks has knocked away as key prop for US bank shares. The stocks soared in late July as hedge funds were forced to buy back stocks in a severe 'short squeeze'. It is the latest example of one-sided intervention by the US authorities. They never stepped in to cap excessive moves upwards during the bubble.Merrill Lynch itself has set the bar for losses at a punitive level by selling a $30.6bn CDOs to Lone Star for $6.7bn, or 22pc on the dollar. Some tranches were written off with a 100pc loss. The move has put intense pressure on other banks to follow suit.
