Plant in Canadian food poisoning outbreak reopensVANCOUVER, British Columbia (Reuters) - Production resumed on Wednesday at the Maple Leaf Foods deli meat plant at the center of this summer's deadly outbreak of listeriosis food poisoning in Canada. The Toronto area facility will increase production gradually, but no products will be distributed until inspectors have verified that enhanced safety procedures are working, Maple Leaf Chief Executive Michael McCain said.Canada seen weathering financial turbulenceOTTAWA (Reuters) - Canada is not immune to the 'considerable stress' that is rocking financial markets, but it is weathering the storm better than many other countries and its financial sector is well capitalized, Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said on Wednesday. In a statement, Flaherty said he was in close contact with U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and other finance ministers of the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations, as well as Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney and Canada's Superintendent of Financial Institutions.Toronto stocks extend slide on financials, NortelTORONTO (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index tumbled almost 3 percent into bear-market territory on Wednesday amid worries over the U.S. financial crisis and as Nortel Networks Corp slashed its revenue forecasts and said it was looking to sell one of its businesses. The heavily weighted financial sector continued to slide amid persistent concerns over troubled U.S. insurer American International Group and a series of Wall Street failures and takeovers.Sun Life and Kingsway detail AIG investmentsTORONTO (Reuters) - Shares of Canadian banks and insurance companies stumbled on Wednesday after the U.S. government's bailout of insurance giant American International Group did little to assuage global concerns about the financial industry, and pressure mounted on other Wall Street investment firms. Sun Life Financial , Canada's third largest life insurer by market value, said on Wednesday it holds $315 million in bonds issued by AIG and its subsidiaries, but has minimal exposure to AIG derivatives, net of collateral.Nortel in crisis again, plans new restructuringTORONTO/OTTAWA (Reuters) - Nortel Networks Corp stumbled into crisis mode once again on Wednesday as it cut its revenue forecasts, prepared for a new wave of layoffs and said it was looking at selling one of its businesses. Blaming the weak economy and cutbacks in spending by telecom companies that buy the equipment it makes, Nortel projected lower third-quarter sales than analysts had expected, sending its shares plummeting to their lowest level on record.Fording sinks as doubts build about Teck takeoverTORONTO (Reuters) - Fording Canadian Coal Trust units dropped 16 percent on Wednesday as worries about additional U.S. bank failures prompted investors to bet more heavily against the success of Teck Cominco's takeover of the coal producer. Fording dropped $12.52, or 16 percent, to C$64.78 on the New York Stock Exchange, falling further below the $82 cash component of Teck's cash and stock offer. With Teck's shares falling 3.4 percent to $31.87 on Wednesday, the offer valued Fording at $89.81 a unit, or about $13.5 billion.  NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's manic dealmaking reached a new pitch on Wednesday as U.S. share prices plummeted to three-year lows and forced increasingly desperate major banks to scramble for merger partners. With the financial landscape undergoing its most dramatic transformation since the Great Depression, news emerged of takeovers involving No. 2 U.S. investment bank Morgan Stanley , weakened top U.S. savings bank Washington Mutual and major UK mortgage lender HBOS .Canada fertilizer producers say demand stays strongWINNIPEG, Manitoba (Reuters) - Shares of fertilizer producers have been battered since June but two Canadian producers said on Wednesday that strong demand and prices bode well for their balance sheets. Executives from Potash Corp of Saskatchewan , the world's largest fertilizer company, and Agrium Inc , a major nitrogen producer and retailer of fertilizer and chemicals, both told investors that the outlook for their commodities remains bright.Canada dollar rebounds on higher commodity pricesTORONTO (Reuters) - A late rally by commodity prices helped the Canadian dollar recover from steep losses to end slightly higher against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday. Canadian bond prices rose as investors sought the safety of government debt as equity markets sold off on the turbulence in the financial markets.Oil rises $6 as hurricanes fray U.S. stockpilesNEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil prices shot up $6 on Wednesday, the largest one-day percentage gain in three months, as a U.S. government report showed nationwide energy inventories fell in the aftermath of the Gulf Coast hurricanes and the greenback slid against the euro. The gains followed the steepest two-day sell-off in the oil market in four years which came as mounting economic turmoil in the United States sent investors fleeing to safer havens like bonds and gold.  
