Jittery investors sparked a frenzied sell-off yesterday that sent the three major stock-market indexes into a another nose dive - including a 449-point plummet by the Dow - as they showed little confidence the government's AIG bailout will stem the bleeding. Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack, who saw his firm's stock plunge $6.95, or 24 percent, to $21.75, was fielding calls last night from Wachovia and other banks about a possible merger, sources said.     Goldman Sachs Group Inc. joined its rival in the stock slide, dropping $18.51, or 14 percent, to $114.50. The teetering by Wall Street's last two heavyweight investment houses came on a dour day that saw the Dow Jones industrial average tumble to 10,609 - a drop of more than 4 percent. About $700 billion in investments were lost as the Dow hit a three-year low. It is down more than 800 points this week. Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 Index was down 57.21, or 4.7 percent, and the Nasdaq lost 109.05, or 4.9 percent. Investors showed little faith in the Federal Reserve's two-year, $85 billion loan to American International Group. In other developments: * Gold, oil and short-term treasury bills soared as investors looked to the safety of hard assets to protect their money. Gold for December delivery rose 11.6 percent, to $870.90 an ounce, in after-hours trading. It was the largest-ever one-day dollar gain for gold. * Washington Mutual hired investment bank Goldman Sachs as an adviser as it mulls the possibility of putting itself up for sale, sources said. * Mayor Bloomberg warned that city property taxes could rise sooner to make up for the huge drops in tax collections from Wall Street firms. 'We have to balance the budget in June, and [property] taxes were projecting to go up 7 percent,' he said. 'The question is, should they go up earlier?' * AIG's retail-insurance rivals started to see a spike in business, as panicky policy holders began looking to shift their business elsewhere. 'It was a massacre,' said one in a long line of glum-faced traders filing out of the Stock Exchange after yesterday's closing bell. The chaos had experts speculating that Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs would both need backing from a major bank to stay afloat. Morgan Stanley's losses come a day after posting higher-than-expected earnings. 'If they don't get bought by HSBC or another big bank, I think they're in big trouble,' said one stock trader. Lehman Brothers has already filed for bankruptcy and sold its North American investment banking and trading operations to Barclays for $250 million. That came a week after a government bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Meanwhile, AIG policyholders were looking to get their home, life and auto insurance from other companies. 'There's definitely an increase,' said Allstate insurance agent David Goldstein. 'I think people are worried. When people hear that kind of news, they want to jump ship immediately.' But the National Association of Insurance Commissioners assured the public that all AIG policies would be honored. Additional reporting by Chuck Bennett, Joe Mollica and Paul Tharp    
