  Steve Green rested at lunchtime on Thursday in the shade of a downtown Jackson bank building, pondering the financial crisis shadowing everyone's future.   Lehman Brothers a bust, and abandoned. Insurance company American International Group, mortgage banks Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, bleeding and bailed out by the federal government. Merrill Lynch, broken and being bought by Bank of America. The stock market, bruised and tumbling. 'It doesn't affect me personally - yet,' said Green, 44, of Jackson. 'The big players on the Wall Street ... they're the ones affected directly.' Green is one of several Jackson-area residents who say Wall Street's reports of monumental bailouts and busts are putting them on edge - but not over it. 'It's a good time to get on the porch and ride it out,' said Rebecca Boone of Pearl. 'I'm going to hold tight. As far as any changes in (investment) portfolios, I'm not making any based on any of this. 'The market goes up, the market goes down. It will take a little time to bounce back. I'm optimistic it will. The banking industry does worry me, though. I have several banking investments.' A new round of bank failures is feared on Wall Street, financial analysts say. But average Americans, at least those in this area, say it's no time for hearts to fail as well. 'A lot of the problem is right up here,' said Roger Shields of Madison, pointing to his forehead. 'It's the psychology of the public,' said Shields, a retired military man. 'It's like the recent gas shortage. There never was a gas shortage until the people who thought there was one decided to panic, then made it happen. People overreact. 'The stock market is a numbers game. For the most part, I think the economy is good. 'If people will keep their cool ... they'll realize it's actually a good time to get into some of these stocks.' At any rate, said Leo Stevens of Jackson, 'If you get out of stocks now, you'll definitely have a loss. 'Like everybody else, I'm very concerned about what has gone on on Wall Street. But I believe that, over the long haul, what goes down will go up. 'Obviously, if you're getting ready to retire tomorrow, you're going to have some issues,' he said, referring to retirement plans, such as 401(k)s, that can depend heavily on stock-market performance. 'Otherwise, being calm, cool, collected is the answer to this.' That's pretty much Clara Chapman's strategy, although she puts it a bit differently: 'I don't think there's anything I can do about the economy,' said Chapman of Jackson. And, while she's not worried about losing her retirement based on a flighty stock market, she does believe the economy 'will get worse before it gets better.' For his part, Green said he believes it will never get better unless the next president 'attacks the economy, and attacks it aggressively. 'It doesn't matter who wins, (Barack) Obama or (John) McCain. If they don't do this, guess what? Their presidency will be lost. First, you're going to have to fix home; you have to fix your house. Then you can go and fix some other things.' Whatever happens, 'those in the lower (economic) class are survivors. They're going to be less affected by things like AIG,' he said, referring to the troubled insurance giant boosted by an $85 billion government bailout. 'They have built up a resistance to bad times. They know how to make it. The ones who have never been in that position are the ones who are going to struggle.'
