ALBANY - New York officials helped giant insurer American International Group Inc. strike a historic loan deal with the Federal Reserve Tuesday night to keep AIG afloat and avoid another fiscal crisis for the state.Gov. David Paterson called it 'great news' that will preserve jobs and, because of it, 'our financial recovery will be easier, if not sooner.' Paterson singled out his superintendent of insurance, Eric Dinallo, for helping preserve the opportunity for AIG to come to a deal with the federal bank. The state's offer to help AIG reach into its subsidiaries to borrow $20 billion bought time for the larger deal. The $20 billion borrowing didn't turn out to be necessary once the federal agreement was struck. 'Policy holders will be protected, jobs will be saved,' Paterson said Tuesday night.Keeping AIG afloat protects thousands of employees and investors in New York who are tied to AIG's troubles, the latest hit to the state's financial outlook as Wall Street's debacle unfolded this year.Shares of AIG had fallen sharply as investors grew increasingly pessimistic on Tuesday the company would find funding to avoid a liquidity crunch that could touch off even more global financial turmoil.AIG's uncertain future was just part of New York's fiscal nightmare this week, after Wall Street was hit by losses unmatched since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.Paterson said New York state government stands to lose at least $1 billion from Monday's Wall Street drop and ultimately maybe more than 30,000 jobs.He said every 10 percent drop in Wall Street bonuses and capital gains means a hit of $750 million to the state's tax revenues. 'We probably lost $1 billion yesterday,' Paterson said, explaining Monday's collapse may have 'wiped out' the roughly $1 billion in cuts he and state lawmakers made to the budget last month.He reiterated he may call the state Legislature back into session to make further cuts before Election Day. 'I know they are campaigning and they want their constituents to hear from them, but the situation is that dire,' he said. Three of the troubled firms - Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch - had nearly 30,000 employees in New York and paid roughly 10 percent of Wall Street wages and 15 percent of all Wall Street bonuses, state officials said.Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli reassured state workers invested in the state pension fund that the companies made up only a small portion of the fund's investments. Lehman's downfall meant about a $400 million hit to the fund - just two-tenths of one percent of the $154 billion pension fund, aides said.Senate Minority Leader Malcolm Smith, D-Queens, urged the Senate Republican majority to hold a special session, saying Lehman Brothers alone has more than 8,000 employees in New York who contribute more than $250 million in state taxes.Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos, R-Nassau County, said lawmakers are prepared to return if the need arises, but 'we will not raise taxes as Senate Minority Leader Smith and the Democrats have called on us to do. In a fragile economy, it would be disastrous.' E.J. McMahon, director of the Manhattan Institute's Empire Center for New York State Policy, said lawmakers probably made enough cuts to get through this year, but 'it makes next year's scenario go from bad to worse.' The state is already predicting a $24 billion gap over the next three years.McMahon recommended Paterson and lawmakers look for savings in the most expensive parts of the budget - health care and education - something they have yet to do. 'The question is will this experience be sobering enough to reduce the clamor and the sense of entitlement from all of the usual special-interest groups?' he said.
