LONDON, Sept 28 (Reuters) - Britain's government will nationalise troubled mortgage lender Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and is discussing the sale of its savings book and branches, people in the banking industry familiar with the matter said. The Treasury is leading talks on the rescue of the bank and said on Sunday discussions were continuing and a decision will be announced before Monday's market opening. The Treasury would have preferred a private sector rescue for Britain's ninth biggest mortgage provider but rivals appear unwilling to come in as a 'white knight' amid a global credit crisis and weakening British housing market. The BBC said B&amp;amp;B will be nationalised and its mortgage book merged with Northern Rock, the lender taken under state ownership in February. The government this month brokered the takeover of HBOS , Britain's biggest home lender, by rival Lloyds TSB . B&amp;amp;B is the latest bank to be hit by a global financial crisis, which was sparked by losses on poor quality U.S. home loans and has claimed a number of high-profile victims in the United States and Europe. The crisis and Britain's weakening economy have heaped pressure on British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, whose party lags the opposition Conservatives in opinion polls and whose leadership has been questioned by some in his own party. BRANCHES COULD BE SOLD B&amp;amp;B's 24 billion pounds ($44 billion) of savings and its 200 branches could be sold to a rival or rivals. Spain's Santander , which owns Abbey and is in the process of buying Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester, was in talks about possibly taking over deposits and branches, an industry source said. But rivals are reluctant to take ownership of B&amp;amp;B's book of 41 billion pounds of residential loans -- representing 3.4 percent of UK mortgages -- as many of them are higher risk buy-to-let and self-certified loans and the British housing market is weakening, raising the prospect of rising bad debts. The government could nationalise B&amp;amp;B using legislation put through to deal with the Northern Rock crisis. A spokesman for B&amp;amp;B said: 'We can confirm we are working with regulatory authorities to bring clarity to the bank's future.' He said news would be announced before Monday's stock market opening and customers' savings were safe. B&amp;amp;B shares tumbled to a record low on Friday and the cost of insuring its debt jumped, prompting regulators to step up efforts to find potential white knights for the bank. Its shares closed on Friday at 20 pence, valuing it at under 300 million pounds. Another option being considered is asking a group of banks to take part in a 'lifeboat rescue' of B&amp;amp;B, where they would take all or the best of its mortgage book, the sources said. Britain's top five banks -- HSBC, Royal Bank of Scotland , Barclays, Lloyds TSB and HBOS -- and Santander already own about 30 percent of B&amp;amp;B between them after they stepped in to help save a rights issue that flopped in June. Talks were also being held in Amsterdam and Brussels on the fate of another European bank, troubled Belgian-Dutch financial group Fortis, and one report said it may sell itself or the ABN AMRO Dutch banking business it acquired last year. (Additional reporting by Adrian Croft; Editing by Paul Bolding) ($1=.5440 Pound) Keywords: BRADFORD&amp;amp;BINGLEY/ Keywords: BRADFORD&amp;amp;BINGLEY/ tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.comra   Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.   
