TORONTO Newsprint giant AbitibiBowater Inc. has again staved off a bankruptcy filing for at least a few days after the company said Thursday it has been granted another extension from secured U.S. lenders to come up with a plan to restructure a multibillion-dollar debt load.  Montreal-based Abitibi has been given until midnight Friday to reach an accord with lenders which included Bank of America, Citicorp and Wachovia Corp. that would allow it to proceed with a plan to restructure $1.8 billion US in debt at American subsidiary Bowater Inc.  Abitibi was in 11th-hour negotiations with the group of lenders before the latest deadline, set Wednesday, after the company failed to draft an agreeable proposal last Friday, the third deadline in a row Abitibi missed.  The secured lenders hold loans of $400 million US against assets of Bowater, including some of the companys most profitable mills. Approval from the group is imperative if Abitibi is to avoid a creditor-protection filing, which could force the liquidation of assets and further mill closures in Canada and the U.S.  The lenders, which are reportedly seeking higher fees and stricter loan covenants, have now extended the deadline three times.  A filing also threatens a separate out-of-court restructuring plan for Canadian subsidiary Abitibi-Consolidated that would slash overall debt at the company to $3.6 billion US from $6 billion US in a debt-for-equity scheme which would leave bondholders with an ownership stake in the parent of more than 90 per cent.  Two major shareholders, Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. and U.S. hedge fund Steelhead Partners LLC, have both agreed to Abitibis restructuring plans and have pledged to purchase tens of millions more in notes at both subsidiaries. Both firms were believed to be lobbying the U.S. banks to approve a plan late last week.  Abitibi, which operates 25 pulp and paper mills as well as 30 wood product facilities across Canada, the U.S., U.K. and South Korea, has been hammered by declining demand for newsprint, made worse by the global recession.  It has closed loss-making mills over the course of the last year to combat the downturn as well entered into agreements to sell hydro assets in Ontario and Quebec.  
