Manulife Financial Corp., Canada's largest insurer, has received backing from several major shareholders to pursue the Asian assets of , according to people involved in the discussions.  Top management have held a series of meetings with institutional investors to test their appetite for a major acquisition, and received a favour-able response.  Manulife is among a handful of international groups that have submitted bids for the Far East operations of the failed American insurance conglomerate in an auction backed by the U. S. Treasury.  The move comes at a precarious moment for the Canadian insurer, which saw its share price drop 20% last week in a troubling slide that has wiped about 75% off the company's value in the last year. Manulife is now worth less than $15-billion after one of the worst market crashes in decades, considerably less that the price tag AIG attaches to its Asian operations. The U. S. insurer is seeking more than US$20-billion for its prized Asian operations, though bids are thought to have clustered closer to US$15-billion.  AIG's insurance business once generated about US$2-billion in profits a year, but analysts suspect its performance has deteriorated in recent months as the parent has been plunged into crisis. The global insurance group received a fresh US$30-billion lifeline from the U. S. government last week in the third attempt to stabilize the conglomerate.  In exchange for the lifeline, the U. S. Treasury gained an option to take control of the Asia operations that Manulife is seeking to buy, known as American International Assurance (AIA).  This has given AIG the option of cancelling the auction and holding on to AIA until markets improve, which could help postpone crystalizing losses for taxpayers at a politically sensitive moment.  This weakens Manulife's hand and makes it dependent on shareholders' willingness to stump up fresh capital for a full offer in the expectation that the unit will benefit from high Asian savings rates.  Despite already suffering heavy paper losses on recent cash injections into the Toronto-based insurer, people involved in the dialogue said investors have expressed a willingness to commit billions in new cash--if the right price can be negotiated.  ecallan@nationalpost.com
