The Boston Insurance industry http://www.bizymoms.com/boston/boston-insurance.php comprises some of the largest and globally renowned insurance providers. Whether it is auto, home or life insurance, most of the industry leaders among various insurance providers have their operations in Boston.  The importance of the Boston Insurance industry can be gauged from the fact that almost all of the top ten ranking insurance providers in the world have an establishment in Boston. AIG, the worlds number one as well as the top insurance provider in the United States, the AXA insurance group of France and Allianz Worldwide of Germany are the global top three insurance providers that run their insurance networks in Boston.  Manulife Financial, which was the erstwhile John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., originally belonging to Boston and now the worlds leading insurance provider operates in Boston. Prudential Financial and MetLife, among the topmost insurance providers in the United States, and Generali Group of Italy that is again a global leader in insurance services have major operations in Boston.  In the exceedingly competitive Boston insurance industry, on the surface most insurance providers appear to be very similar when it comes to base rates. But the top Boston Insurance providers are distinguished from others in terms of their reliability and efficiency in customer service and their speed of processing the claims. Some of the most common types of insurance purchased by the consumers in Boston include travel, workers compensation, home, auto, health and life insurance among others.  The presence of the industrys top insurance providers in Boston ensures that there are strong distribution networks of agents and brokers who are available throughout the city for your assistance. You can seek their advice regarding the selection of the best and most appropriate insurance plans for your requirements.  ###  Contact Information:  Susan Hutson  VP, Bizymoms.com Marketing and Content  
