Ascension Insurance, Inc. has announced the acquisition of the Dennis Bartlett agency of Fort Lauderdale, effective January 16th 2009. The agency specializes in medical malpractice coverage, and will join Employers Mutual, Inc. (EMI), a member of the Ascension group of companies based in Stuart, Florida. Headquartered in Kansas City, MO, the Ascension group is managed by Ascension Insurance, Inc. (Ascension). Through its divisions and subsidiaries, Ascension offers a full range of insurance and employee benefits products and programs, as well as high-level brokerage and risk management services specifically to middle-market companies nationwide.  Ascension's President and CEO,   Leonard P. Kline, Jr.  commented on the acquisition, 'Dennis and his team bring a deep expertise in the area of medical malpractice that will be a great asset to EMI and the entire Ascension group. Their specialized expertise is a natural fit for EMI's physician network and to the medical providers that EMI services, and furthers our mission to offer customized solutions, superior products and top-quality service to our clients.' Dennis Bartlett, commented, 'We are very pleased to be part of Ascension's vision because it offers us opportunities to further expand our specialization in medical malpractice insurance, and to deliver more comprehensive solutions to our clients. We chose Ascension because of their unique business model, which provides the resources and the expertise we need to increase market share without the barriers you might find with a large, corporate parent.' About the Ascension group of companies:  Ascension is led by President and CEO   Leonard P. Kline, Jr.  Ascension is presently one of the fastest growing insurance agencies in the United States with over 20 locations nationwide. Together with its private equity partners, Parthenon Capital and , Ascension, expects to grow to $200 million in revenue over the next four years.  Ascension's corporate mission is to create a premier group of insurance agencies that offer superior risk management and benefits consulting services while providing a rewarding professional environment that preserves the expertise and culture that made each operational center successful. Ascension is a privately held corporation. 
