Fitch Ratings assigns an 'AA-/F1+' rating to Washington Healthcare Facilities Authority's variable-rate revenue bonds (Swedish Health Services) as follows:   --$75 million series 2009B; --$75 million series 2009C.   The ratings are based on the support of the two irrevocable direct-pay letters of credit (LOCs) issued by U.S. Bank, National Association (the bank) securing the bonds. The bank is rated 'AA-/F1+'. The bank is obligated to make payments of principal of and interest on the bonds upon maturity, redemption, as well as purchase price for tendered bonds. The ratings will expire upon the earliest of: (i) March 19, 2012, the initial stated expiration date of the LOCs, unless such date is extended; (ii) any prior termination of the LOCs; or (iii) defeasance of the bonds. The LOCs provide full coverage of principal plus an amount equal to 45 days' interest at a maximum rate of 12% based on a year of 365 days and purchase price for tendered bonds, while in the daily and weekly rate modes. The underwriter and remarketing agent for the bonds is Citi. The bonds are expected to be delivered on or about March 19, 2009.   Each series initially bears interest at a weekly rate. Each series may be converted to a daily, bond interest term, or long-term rate. While the bonds bear interest in the weekly rate mode, interest payments are on the first Wednesday of each month commencing April 1, 2009. While bonds bear interest in the daily rate mode, interest payments are on the fifth business day of each month. Holders may tender their bonds on any business day, provided the remarketing agent and tender agent are given at least seven calendar days' prior notice of the purchase in the weekly rate, or notice by 11:00 a.m., NY time on any business day in the daily rate. Each series of bonds is subject to mandatory tender: (1) upon conversion of the interest rate; (2) upon expiration, substitution or termination of the LOC; and (3) five business days following the trustee's receipt of notice from the bank of an event of default under the reimbursement agreement. Non-reinstatement of the interest component of the LOC results in an immediate acceleration of the bonds. Optional and mandatory redemption provisions also apply to the bonds.   Bond proceeds will be used to make a loan to Swedish Health Services for all or a portion of the funds necessary to (a) finance costs of the construction, remodeling, renovating and equipping of certain inpatient, outpatient and administrative facilities; (b) refund a portion of the series 2006 revenue bonds; and (c) pay certain costs of issuing the bonds.   Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site.   SOURCE: Fitch Ratings   Fitch Ratings, New York Joseph Staffa, +1-212-908-0829 Media Relations: Sandro Scenga, +1-212-908-0278 sandro.scenga@fitchratings.com 
