(Newsday - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- American International Group, the troubled insurance giant that received one of the largest corporate bailouts in American history, gave 73 employees bonuses of more than $1 million each -- including one who took home $6.4 million, according to State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo.  Cuomo outlined the bonuses in a letter sent Tuesday to Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, which plans to hold a hearing Wednesday on the government's role in bailing out Manhattan-based AIG.  In his letter, Cuomo called the bonuses 'staggering in size.'  Cuomo learned of the bonuses after his office filed a subpoena with AIG, asking for the amounts of the bonuses and the names of those who received them as well as an explanation as to why they were given. The subpoenas were sent after published reports in New York and Washington revealed the AIG handed out the bonuses despite having received a $173 billion taxpayer bailout. AIG posted a $61 billion loss in the fourth quarter.  The company declined to provide the names of those who received them, but Cuomo said his office will continue to press AIG for the names and try to determine whether they can be rescinded.  To see more of Newsday, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.newsday.com Copyright (c) 2009, Newsday, Melville, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.  For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 1. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
