Nationwide Financial Services Inc. was hit hard last year by losses on investments in subprime and Alt-A mortgages, troubled banks and other securities clobbered by the declining economy and the upheaval in the financial services sector.  The financial services subsidiary of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. lost $849 million in 2008 after posting a profit of $627 million a year earlier, according to its annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Its investments brought in revenue totaling $421.4 million last year, compared with investment revenue of $2.1 billion in 2007.  The poor year shows how the companys move out of more conservative investments into potentially higher-yielding securities since going public in 1997 made it more susceptible to huge swings in its portfolios results. A continued deterioration in the depressed market would further erode Nationwide Financials earnings. And if the downturn is prolonged and severe, that could force Nationwide Mutual to inject capital into the subsidiary, said Neil Stein, assistant director of financial institutions ratings at Standard &amp; Poors. But its not just related to (Nationwide) specifically. This is a concern among all companies, he said. The possibility of needing additional capital has become a national phenomenon, Stein said. Nationwide Financial, however, has an S&amp;P financial strength rating of A+, with a stable outlook, and maintains a strong capital base, said Matthew Carroll, Steins colleague at S&amp;P. Its credit rating is BBB+ (adequate). Theyre very well cushioned, he said. Although the credit crisis, the bursting of the housing bubble and broader economic woes had much to do with the poor performance of Nationwide Financials portfolio, the company for years had steadily made itself more susceptible to economic upheavals by switching more of its holdings from plain vanilla investments such as government securities into more lucrative, but riskier investments.  At the end of 2007, before the economic meltdown last year, 63 percent of Nationwide Financials internal investment portfolio was classified as other corporate securities, which included investments in private company debt and in mortgage- and asset-backed securities.  By comparison, 38 percent of its portfolio was in that category at the end of 1997.  Meanwhile, government securities which often offer smaller but more reliable gains shrank from 21 percent of the companys portfolio to 13 percent at the end of 2007.  Its investment portfolio traditionally makes up the majority of Nationwide Financials revenue stream, and gains led to big profit increases and a rising stock price for several years.  The opposite happened last year, when the companys asset base contracted by $25.6 billion, or 21 percent, to $93.6 billion and it posted the big loss. Its not uncommon for companies to shift their investment mix after going public, said Joseph Petrelli, president of insurer ratings company Demotech Inc. in Columbus, which does not cover Nationwide Financial. By and large, what you tend to see in publicly traded companies tends to be a more aggressive approach in their investment portfolio, he said. Thats because, in their position, nominal yields are typically problematic for them to hit their marks in terms of their shareholders. One reason Nationwide Mutual cited for taking Nationwide Financial private was the ability to manage the company absent shareholder pressure, but officials said in a written response to questions from Columbus Business First that the deal was put in motion primarily to align products with customer needs. Negotiations to merge commenced in the early part of 2008, well before the severity of the current financial crisis became known, the company said. The company is hardly alone in its investment woes. S&amp;P in recent weeks has downgraded numerous life insurers over concerns related to investments, the credit markets, access to capital markets and broad declines in the economy. It is standard practice for insurers to invest policy premiums and other income to generate earnings, and many life insurance providers have seen their portfolios suffer, the agency said in a recent report. Some life insurers investment portfolios are protecting them from the declining credit markets. They generally hold higher-quality, predominately investment-grade corporate bonds, the report said. However, many firms have exposure to lower-rated investments in pursuit of improving their overall investment yields. Nationwide in its statement said its investment approach is based on a complex assessment of asset classes, individual investments, interest rates and liquidity conditions that change over time.
