 Dodging a lawsuit by the state attorney general, Excellus BlueCross BlueShield has agreed to pay millions of dollars to patients who were undercompensated over the last six years, and help fund a new nationwide database of reimbursement rates and an investigation into insurance companies' payment practices.  Excellus members who sought reimbursement for medical bills after visiting out-of-network physicians will be able to apply for additional money starting in the next several weeks. The agreement comes about two weeks after Attorney General Andrew Cuomo announced that he intended to sue the area's largest insurer, accusing Excellus of manipulating reimbursement rates and knowingly underpaying members for years.  Cuomo estimated that 880,000 members participate in Excellus' out-of-network plans, and that reimbursing those who were shortchanged would cost the company millions of dollars. The exact amount is unclear, he said. The Attorney General's Office will oversee the repayment process.'I think it's fair ... I think this was the right thing,' Cuomo said Thursday. The agreement will stop his office from filing suit, an outcome that Cuomo said was more beneficial for members. 'If we went into court with a company like this, it would be years of litigation.'Excellus spokesman Jim Redmond declined to estimate how much the insurer would pay members. In a statement, company officials said they acknowledged problems in the database used to determine reimbursement rates, and would send letters detailing the compensation process to members who may have been underpaid.'Given the new information, we are pleased to reimburse any of our members who have been affected,' the statement said.  According to Excellus, 98 percent of local physicians are part of their network. Patients who visited those offices are not affected.  The settlement stems from a statewide investigation, which found that all major insurers in New York determined how much to reimburse patients for visiting an out-of-network doctor by using a database created by the country's second-largest health insurer, UnitedHealth Group. The Ingenix database set rates by using billing information provided by insurance companies, which understated medical costs and defrauded consumers out of hundreds of millions of dollars over the past 10 years, Cuomo's investigation concluded.(2 of 2)The investigation also found:  Excellus calculated out-of-network reimbursement based on how much procedures cost up to nine years ago.  Internal e-mails showed that company employees have known for years that the insurer was underpaying members.  Excellus had been warned in 2000 by the state Insurance Department about using outdated rates.  Since the investigation concluded, the Attorney General's Office reached settlements with several other insurers including UnitedHealth and MVP Health Care Inc., the parent company of Preferred Care. The insurers have agreed to stop using the Ingenix database once a new independent database is created, and larger companies will also pay to help set up the database and reimburse members.  Excellus has agreed to pay $775,000 to an independent organization that will create the database, and another $775,000 to the Attorney General's Office to help fund the investigation.  The new database, which will be run by an academic medical institution that has not been named, now has $90 million in startup funding from settlements with insurers.  JUWANG@DemocratandChronicle.com  
