www.companiesandmarkets.com/Summary-Market-Report/Greece-Insuran .. We expect the macroeconomic fallout from the global credit crisis to hit Greece in 2009. This will expose the countrys structural flaws and economic imbalances, making it difficult to attract inward investment. A key risk is that investors see Greece as a weak link in the Eurozone, putting intense pressure on financial stability and, ultimately, the wider economy. Some of our biggest concerns for economic stability in Greece lie in the large imbalances in the domestic economy. Firstly, the country runs a very large current account deficit (14.1% in 2007), leaving it highly sensitive to capital flows. In addition, the governments persistent budget deficits and heavy debt burden will limit its ability to respond to the downturn. Greece also has one of the more inhospitable business climates in the EU, according to our business environment risk ratings. This will make it difficult to attract new investment as international businesses scale back operations. Indeed, the recent withdrawal of Tate &amp; Lyle from the country, rerouting customers to neighbouring Bulgaria, is an ominous sign. In our view, the main concern for Greece is the uncertainty over how badly it will be dragged into the region-wide economic meltdown. It is unlikely that banks will be willing to lend freely until the outlook becomes clearer. Worse still, the signs from the financial markets are not good. We are worried by the recent spike in the spread between Greek and German treasury bonds. A year ago, Greek three-year notes traded around 20-30 basis point over German equivalents. Now that spread has soared above 100 basis points, showing that Greece is considered something of an EU outlier among investors. This will make it even harder to attract the investment required to spark an economic recovery. Since the last quarter, we have made two major changes to the data in this report. First, we have  to the greatest extent possible  incorporated hard figures that have been made available by the regulator(s) and trade association(s) in each country. In some cases, therefore, we have begun to include numbers that pertain to the development of the insurance sector through the early stages of the global financial crisis. Second, we have extended our forecasts out to 2013. In all cases, we have reviewed the key growth drivers  non-life penetration and life density  that we had incorporated in our forecasts. The global financial crisis is likely to affect the various segments of the global insurance industry in different ways. In many countries  especially in Europe  the coming recession points to softness in the non-life segment. In many cases, the numbers of policies may fall so there should be downwards pressure on premiums. By contrast, the main problem for the life segment  in almost all countries  is the extreme volatility of financial markets. Over the longer term, though, the fortunes of life insurance will recover  thanks to the secular growth of organised savings in most countries. China, where the larger insurance companies continue to achieve double digit growth in premium income, is a good example of this. Some particular niches should also do well in the current environment, such as legal liability insurance. In CEE, we profile 22 multi-national insurance companies. In alphabetical order, these are AEGON, AIG, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Cardif, ERGO, Eureko, Fortis, Generali, GRAWE, Groupama, HDIGerling, HSBC Insurance, ING, MetLife, Prudential Financial, QBE, RSA, UNIQA, Vienna Insurance Group and Zurich Financial Services. We also discuss the regional presence of Belgiums KBC and Austrias Erste Bank through a number of insurance subsidiaries and explain the importance, for each of the various countries, of purely domestic firms. BMIs Insurance Business Environment Rating is 64.7. 
