  NEW YORK - (Business Wire) Fitch Ratings assigns a rating of 'A+/F1+' to the $26,090,000 Nassau Health Care Corporation (Nassau County Guaranteed), series 2009A (Taxable). The rating is based on the support provided by an irrevocable direct-pay letter of credit (LOC) issued by Bank of America, N.A. (the bank) securing the bonds while the bonds are in the weekly rate mode. The bank is obligated to make regularly scheduled payments of principal of and interest on the bonds, as well as the purchase price for tendered bonds. Any optional redemption will be made with funds from either Nassau Health Care Corporation or Nassau County. The rating will expire upon the earliest of: (a) April 8, 2012, the stated expiration date of the LOC; (b) any prior termination of the LOC; and (c) defeasance of the bonds. The LOC provides full and sufficient coverage of regularly scheduled principal, plus an amount equal to 45 days' interest at a maximum rate of 15% based on a year of 360 days, and purchase price for tendered bonds. The Remarketing Agent for the bonds is Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. The bonds are expected to be available for delivery on or about April 8, 2009.   The bonds initially bear interest at the weekly interest rate, but may be converted to alternate interest rate modes. The first interest payment date is May 1, 2009 and thereafter interest will be paid on the first business day of each month, while bonds bear interest in the weekly rate mode. Holders have the option to tender their bonds on any business day during the weekly interest mode, following required advance notice. The bonds are subject to mandatory tender: (1) upon conversion of the interest rate mode; (2) on the effective date of a substitute LOC; (3) five days prior to the expiration of the LOC if it is not renewed pursuant to its terms; (4) within six days of receipt of notice from the bank that an event of default has occurred under the reimbursement agreement. Optional redemption provisions also apply to the bonds.   Bond proceeds will be used for the purpose of refunding the Nassau Health Care Corporation bonds, series 2004-A.   Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site.   Fitch Ratings, New York  Trudy Zibit, +1-212-908-0689  Sandro Scenga, +1-212-908-0278 (Media Relations)  sandro.scenga@fitchratings.com  Cindy Stoller, +1-212-908-0526 (Media Relations)  cindy.stoller@fitchratings.com 
