 Hints of extra stimulus in China and Japanfuel Asian markets WITH United States deficits ballooning on mega bailout and economic stimulus packages, China - the worlds biggest holder of American government debt - is concerned about the safety of those assets.   On Friday, :Prime Minister Wen Jiabao appealed to Washington to ensure that its response to the global slowdown does not damage the value of Chinese holdings.   "We have made a huge amount of loans to the United States. Of course, we are concerned about the safety of our assets. To be honest, Im a little bit worried, Mr Wen said at a news conference following the closing of Chinas annual legislative session.   "I would like to call on the United States to honour its words, stay a credible nation and ensure the safety of Chinese assets."   Mr Wen added that while Chinas first priority was to protect its own interests, it would "at the same time also take international financial stability into consideration, because the two are inter-related".   His comments foreshadow possible appeals to President Barack Obama, who will meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao at a London summit on April 2, where G20 leaders will discuss the global financial crisis.   Analysts estimate that nearly half of Chinas US$2 trillion ($3 trillion) in currency reserves are in US Treasuries and notes issued by other government-affiliated agencies.   "They are worried about forever-rising deficits, which may devalue Treasuries by pushing interest rates higher, said JP Morgan economist Frank Gong. "Inside China, there has been a lot ofdebate about whether they should continue to buy Treasuries."   Last month, visiting Secretary of State Hillary Clinton sought to reassure Beijing that government debt would remain a reliableinvestment. Washington is counting on China to continue buying Treasuries to fund its US$787-billion stimulus package.   China, meanwhile, stands ready to enlarge its own already-huge package worth :4 trillion yuan to give another boost to its economy.:   Said Prime Minister Wen: "We already have our plans ready to tackle even more difficult times, and to do that we have reserved adequate ammunition .. That means that at any time, we can introduce new stimulus policies."   The government has enough resources to spend more in a bid to safeguard jobs, he said.   He added that the country would be able to meet this years growth target of 8 per cent, despite skepticism by private sector economists, who expect as little as 5 per cent.   "I really believe we will be able to walk out of the shadow of the financial crisis at an early date," said Mr Wen. "After this trial, I believe the Chinese economy will show greater vitality.   Mr Wens reassuring words breathed life into Asian stock markets, which gained 3.5 per cent. :Singapore stocks surged 5.6 per cent to finish at 1,577.5 points.   Further fuelling the rally was Japan :Prime Minister Taro Asos call on Friday for a fresh stimulus to lift the Japanese economy, the second-largest in the world.   At the same time, optimism rose on Bank of America chief Kenneth Lewis comments that his company was profitable in January and February, joining JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup in suggesting the nations three biggest banks are recovering from a dismal 2008. AGENCIES   
