   Hawkish Weber, Strong ZEW Bring Euro to Record Highs      www.economicnews.ca     06:55 03/11 (CEP News) Montreal - Hawkish comments from Bundesbank President Axel Weber and an unexpected rebound in the ZEW's economic sentiment index for Germany pushed the euro to a new all-time record against the USD while crude oil pushed beyond the $109 mark for the first time. The U.S. dollar was also under further pressure after rising inflation in China sparked speculation that global central banks would hike rates to combat price pressures.    March&#8217;s German ZEW economic sentiment saw an upside surprise coming in at -32.0 on Tuesday, above the market forecast of -40.0 and the prior reading of -39.5. The German ZEW current situation and the euro zone economic sentiment also came in higher than expected with readings of 32.1 and -35.0 respectively.    Economists had predicted the current situation to come in at 30.0, down from February&#8217;s reading of 33.7. Euro zone economic sentiment had been expected to fall to -42.0 from the prior reading of -41.4.    German wholesale prices declined 0.2% month-over-month in February in spite of forecasts for a 0.5% increase and the previous month's 1.4% gain. Annual wholesale prices increased 6.0%, short of the expected 6.7% increase and the previous 6.6% rise.    Simultaneously, Bundesbank President Axel Weber said that rising inflation pressures and a robust euro zone economy left no room for the European Central Bank to cut rates. He said that inflation pressures in Europe were showing no signs of easing and that an economic recovery for the German economy was solidly based, with GDP just under potential in 2008.    In the UK, GDP growth increased in the three months to February but was seen below average growth trends, according to estimates published by the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) on Tuesday. In its monthly GDP analysis, NIESR said growth rose to 0.5% in the quarter to February, up from a revised growth of 0.4% in the three months to January. In an accompanying note, the research institute, while generally welcomed the growth, opined that figures do not suggest the UK economy has slowed sufficiently for the Bank of England to make further interest rate cuts a "priority."    The UK retail sales rose 1.5% on a like-for-like basis in the year to February versus January&#8217;s rise of 2.6%, according to figures released on Tuesday by the British Retail Consortium. The three-monthly trend rate of growth edged up to 1.6% from 1.5% in January for like-for-like sales, and to 4.0% from 3.7% for total sales, reflecting what the BRC phrased as &#8220;the continuing growth of retail space.&#8221;    The UK house prices balance for February, as gauged by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, fell for the seventh successive month to -64.1% from -54.7% in January, according to figures published on Tuesday. The February figure was close to a historical low of June 1990 when a balance level of -64.5% was recorded. Furthermore, UK demand continued to weaken as new buyers&#8217; enquiries fell to -37%, down from -35% in January.    The National Australia Bank&#8217;s business confidence index rose to -2 in February from January's -4 figure while the business conditions index declined to 11 from a reading of 13.    A study by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group suggests that job advertisements declined 2.0% month-over-month in February with January's 1.8% increase being revised down to a gain of 0.8%.    Australian home loans were up 2.3% month-over-month in January compared to forecasts for a 1.0% gain, and December's 0.1% increase was revised up to a 0.4% gain.    Investment lending in Australia picked up 8.3% month-over-month in January while December's prior was revised down to a 2.2% fall from a 3.0% decline.    Final estimates of Japanese machine tool orders for February were revised down to a 0.5% decline year-over-year after preliminary estimates pointed to a 0.7% fall.    Annual CPI in China rose 8.7% year-over-year in February after rising 7.9% in the previous months. The gain was the highest since May 1996.    An article in the Wall Street Journal suggests the USD is under pressure from global central banks fighting inflation by hiking interest rates. Another article suggested the Fed might attempt to ease credit tensions by purchasing mortgage-backed securities.    Speaking in an interview with CNBC, U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Robert Kimmitt said that FX rates should be determined by markets, declining to comment on the value of the USD. He said the U.S. economy was backed by solid fundamentals but that markets were facing difficulties as the U.S. economy slowed. He also called on Chinese officials to hasten the appreciation of their currency.    The releases sent the euro soaring over one cent to an intraday high of 1.5495 USD. Shortly after, crude oil bounced off the $109.20 mark with gold revving up for another rally, gaining over $10.00 and hitting an intraday high of $983.10 in the morning session    The number of new mortgages successfully applied and taken out by UK house buyers fell from 62,000 in December to 50,300 in January, the Council of Mortgage Lenders said on Tuesday. CML also said the value of new mortgages dipped to 7.8 billion in January from 9.4 billion in December. The figure also came in lower than the January 2007 figure of 11.2 billion.       Germany's Glos says no reason to be worried in short-term over strong euro       BERLIN (Thomson Financial) - German economy minister Michael Glos said there is no reason to be worried in the short term about the appreciation of the euro against the dollar.  He said around 90 pct of German exports are not affected at all by the euro-dollar exchange rate.  He said the rest of the companies would have to protect their dollar exposure through financial hedging measures.  He also said there is no reason to revise the German government forecast of 1.7 pct GDP growth this year.
