WASHINGTON (Thomson Financial) - US households are now more vulnerable to economic shocks because of the the  rising levels of debt they've taken on in recent years , according to new research from the Federal Reserve.      'US households have become more exposed to shocks to asset prices through the greater leverage in their balance sheets,' Fed governor Donald Kohn and staff economist Karen Dynan said in a research paper presented today. 'A given change in stock prices or home prices will have a larger effect on net wealth and so on spending.'      Kohn and Dynan presented their paper at a Reserve Bank of Australia conference and a copy was released to reporters in Washington. Though it suggests potential effects of financial and housing market turmoil on American consumers, their research was done earlier this year is not intended as a direct comment on current events.      Since the mid-1980s, the ratio of  total household debt to income has gone from 0.6 to more than 1.1 , Kohn and Dynan said, and the rise in debt has been especially dramatic since 2000.      They said the combination of higher home prices and financial innovation has been the the most important factor enabling the increase. Fed surveys show that 'fully 100 pct of the increase in aggregate debt relative to income since 1983 has taken the form of debt on household's primary residences.'      Rising home prices have given people more equity against which to borrow and financial innovations such as home equity lending and loan securitization have made that borrowing cheaper and easier.      'Innovation has opened up greater opportunities to households to enter the housing market,' said Kohn and Dynan, 'and for homeowners to liquefy their housing wealth, thereby helping them smooth consumption.'      In other words, easier housing-related lending has helped consumers support their spending habits with borrowing. But the Fed researchers said that effect may have run its course and 'is not likely to be repeated unless house prices continue to increase as quickly as in the past' and financial innovations continue to make credit easier to get.      Exactly the opposite is now happening, however.  Home prices have stalled or begun falling and housing-related lending has tightened up considerably in reaction to the subprime meltdown.       The implication, said Kohn and Dynan, is that 'credit availability could be hampered for a larger group of households which could, in turn, have effects on the broader economy.'   
