  However, the large majority of people are still paying their mortgages. The vast majority of value in these securities are still there. They were overpriced before because people ignored the risk, but they are underpriced now. I just got a mortgage a couple of weeks ago ... it&amp;#039;s not like the liquidity from mortgages has totally dried up.     1) The big mortage houses were not bundeling and selling off their ARM and subprime mortgages. So yes, the big holders of mortgages are not seeing big losses in the subprime one, because they sold those off or insured them. They (fannie/freddie/others) are seeing losses on the ARM and regular mortgages because of the decline in home values. (20% in california, in which case people are voluntarily defaulting on their loan that could easily pay, but choose not to)  So for you to say &amp;amp;quot;the vast majority of value in these securites is still there&amp;amp;quot; is mostly false, depending on the market/region. Texas = true, California = false.   2) The fact remains there is less credit available today. Yes you can still get a homeloan, but you will have to qualify under the old safe models. Did you have to make a downpayment? I got a new mortgage 5 months before the crash, and had to put ZERO money down.   I&amp;#039;m not sure there was any crime, but the real issue was the investment bankers/analysts ignored the large amount of risk in some of the crazy loans (yea, negative amortization sounds like a greaaaat way to buy a home with 3% down!) and now they are reaping the risk part of the risk/reward equation.    Lumpy wrote: So the real crime is that the stock was allowed to get so high in the first place? I wouldn&amp;#039;t have thought that would be needed to be said.      I&amp;#039;m not sure there was any crime, but the real issue was the investment bankers/analysts ignored the large amount of risk in some of the crazy loans (yea, negative amortization sounds like a greaaaat way to buy a home with 3% down!) and now they are reaping the risk part of the risk/reward equation.    1) When the value of homes was steadily and reliably going up, the type of loan was irrelavant. You could have given a mortgage on a mansion to a homeless person, and provided they value of the home increased prior to foreclosure, it was a win win for the lender and borrower. (This is what happended in California)  2) The real crime is the AAA rating giving to some of these higly dubious SIV&amp;#039;s. A 5th traunch AAA bond backed by ARM or Sub prime securities was utter BS. They assumed that it was untouchable, when in fact many got wiped out.     The problem here is merely one of perception. Now, perception can become reality in economics fairly quickly if it isn&amp;#039;t checked, so having the morons on CNN and Fox News droning on about this being as bad as the GD could become a self fulfilling prophesy if the American people believe it.    1) True and false. True in that as investors perceiving a decline in value or potential losses, and withdraw assets as a result, thus cause liquidity problems and the Banks have to sell assets quickly and on the cheap in order to pay back investors, is a problem of perception to an extent.   False, because many of these investment are in serious jeopardy. Default rates on ARM -  Prime  mortages have risen as high as 10-20% in some parts of the country.  So if your corporation borrowed money and used a SIV of of the ARM - Prime and Subprime mortgages, your assets are in fact worthless, and will suffer massive liquidity problems as investors and lenders become aware of your worthless assets.   AIG is not in trouble because of perception. AIG is in trouble because they insured many of these ARM and Subprime asset backed commerical paper loans. Since the assets are now worthless or highly devalued, they are liable to either A) pay off the lenders or B) pay off liquidity insurance that many of the big borrowers took out from AIG.   Company X realizes that its $5 billion in assets is actually worth $2billion. So AIG has to pay the difference, since they provided insurance for just such a claim.  or  Company X pays AIG insurance fees in the event that it can not meet liquidity requirements. So, AIG has to pay the difference or the whole based on how fast company X was able to liquidate or not liquidate.    Ixtellor
