ZURICH, Sept 18 (Reuters) - Persistent financial turmoil has fuelled fresh market talk that governments and central banks in Europe may push troubled lenders to merge to create national bank champions strong enough to survive the crisis.    U.S. financial woes prompted British regulators to put aside competition concerns and help rush a snap takeover of battered lender HBOS by Lloyds TSB that will create a dominant mortgage and savings bank in the country.    The British deal, which many had considered unthinkable up until this week&amp;#039;s crisis, reinforced market speculation that similar mergers may be seen elsewhere in Europe.    &amp;#039;A year ago it would have been very difficult for this deal to have gone through, but we live in unusual times,&amp;#039; Lloyds TSB chief Eric Daniels said on Wednesday.    Germany is in the process of creating new bank heavyweights through the takeover of Deutsche Postbank by Deutsche Bank and with the sale of Allianz&amp;#039;s banking arm Dresdner to Commerzbank, although dealers started to speculate on Thursday that this deal may fall through.    Italy and Spain have already largely consolidated their bank sector and market focus was now moving to places such as Switzerland, France or Scandinavia.    Traders revived talk on Thursday that the Swiss National Bank may push bank giant UBS, whose shares have hit an all-time low this week, to rush into the arms of peer Credit Suisse if the worst came to the worst.    Such a deal would however create huge overlaps and may leave Swiss companies with limited options on where to bank locally.    WHO IS NEXT?    &amp;#039;The two banks have been caught up in the world-wide merger-craze,&amp;#039; said a dealer. &amp;#039;The whole sector is under restructuring. Investors are now looking beyond the U.S. to see who is the next candidate and with whom it will merge.&amp;#039;    UBS and Credit Suisse declined to comment on the latest market talk while the head of the Swiss Banker Association Pierre Mirabaud said UBS, which has done more writedowns than any other European bank, would not need to ask the SNB for help.    &amp;#039;I absolutely do not expect this scenario to happen,&amp;#039; he said. &amp;#039;The Swiss banks are strong enough to weather this storm.&amp;#039;    The two Swiss banks were among the biggest European bank gainers on Thursday. UBS was up 13 percent at 1035 GMT and Credit Suisse gained 8 percent, outperforming the DJ Stoxx European banking index.    The option of a tie-up between France&amp;#039;s BNP Paribas and Societe Generale briefly flared up although most Paris-based investors paid little attention to the rumour.    Such a deal would require the blessing of the French government and the likely job cuts could make it a hard sell.    &amp;#039;The toll in terms of job losses would be hard for the French political powers,&amp;#039; Montsegur Finance fund manager Francois Chaulet said.    The banks have declined to comment on such market talk in the past. BNP said recently it had decided against a Societe General bid despite having the option earlier in the year.    In Sweden, Nordea Chief Executive Christian Clausen told Swedish media he saw more regional bank mergers after the crisis, which hit rival Swedbank due to its exposure to bankrupt U.S. bank Lehman Brothers and risks linked to its operation in the Baltic states.    (Additional reporting by Sudip Kargupta in Paris, Steve Slater in London, Jason Rhodes and Rupert in Zurich; Editing by Hans Peters) Keywords: EUROPE/BANKING    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
