       ING has buffer, no interest in US investment bank-CFO Fri Sep 19, 2008 10:31am EDT  By Reed Stevenson  MADRID, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Dutch financial services group ING (ING.AS: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) has no plans to buy a U.S. investment bank and will hold on to its capital buffer as it weathers the acute crisis among financial firms, its Chief Financial Officer said on Friday.  &amp;amp;quot;Right now, today it makes sense to have a buffer,&amp;amp;quot; ING CFO John Hele said at the financial group&amp;#039;s analysts&amp;#039; day in Madrid.  Asked whether ING would be interested in buying any distressed assets, particularly a U.S. investment bank, Hele said: &amp;amp;quot;There could be some assets that come up. We&amp;#039;re not looking to buy a big investment bank in the United States.&amp;amp;quot;  Lehman Brothers (LEH.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) collapsed and Merrill Lynch (MER.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) was bought by Bank of America (BAC.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) earlier this week, while Morgan Stanley (MS.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) continued talking to Wachovia Corp (WB.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and other banks about a merger. Morgan Stanley was also in talks to sell a larger equity stake to China&amp;#039;s sovereign wealth fund, people familiar with its plans told Reuters on Thursday.  Hele reiterated ING&amp;#039;s often-stated line that it is interested chiefly in smaller bolt-on acquisitions.  ING, which has 3.9 billion euros ($5.7 billion) of spare leverage, told analysts it does not have to tap capital markets to weather the turbulent markets.  &amp;amp;quot;The fact that we are able to ride through this is because of the fact that we have a strong foundation,&amp;amp;quot; Hele said.  Hele declined to comment on whether ING had any exposure to American Insurance Group (AIG.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz).  The U.S. government this week agreed to rescue AIG with an emergency $85 billion loan from the New York Federal Reserve.  ING said conventional less-leveraged banking -- taking in retail savings deposits and offering loans and other products to corporate and retail customers -- will help it weather the storm.  &amp;amp;quot;The growth comes from the retail customer,&amp;amp;quot; Hele said.  At its analysts day, ING set a new goal of doubling loans, mortgages and funds held by retail customers at its ING Direct Internet and phone banking service in five years. [ID:nLJ584065]  
