I'm posting this publicly, as I feel Wachovia deserves public shame for their customer service attitude as of late which seems to include lying to their customers.Last week, I made some purchases at two establishments for a total of $31.87 spread out over two days.  Without my realization, AES also debited my account.  As a result, I incurred a $35 overdraft fee for the failed AES transfer.  The first of the two transactions made by my card went through via overdraft protection - the money was debited from one account and placed in the other for a $10 fee, covering that purchase.  When I checked my account on Sunday night, though, I had a second $35 overdraft fee, despite the fact that nothing had tripped the overdraft.Calling Wachovia, they told me that the overdraft was for the second transaction - a $4.50 purchase that hadn't yet posted.  I got them to refund $10 to my account on that overdraft fee.  Fast forward to last night when I checked my account and found a third overdraft fee, seemingly being assessed to the $4.50 fee.So, here's what they did, according to them - they processed and approved the hobby store purchase and set the funds aside.  When the AES debit hit between authorization and pay out, they then took $35 out of my account, but transferred money over to cover the hobby shop purchase.  Then, on the 5th, I bought food on campus for $4.50.  Since now my account was negative, as the Hobby Store purchase has already been approved but not processed, they dinged me for the second overdraft.  Now my account doesn't have the money to pay out EITHER transaction, so they hit me again for another $35 overdraft on the 8th when that payment posts.End result - I was charged $115 for three transactions.  First, $35 for the AES shit, then $10 to cover the transfer of money to pay the hobby shop, then $35 for the hobby shop overdraft (nevermind the fact that the money was there), then $35 for the $4.50 charge.What really pisses me off about all of this is that I can look online and tell that their computer is lying to the CSR's, who are then passing on this information to me without actually thinking about it.  On top of that, the computer is changing the explanation apparently, as the line I was given today was completely different from the explanation I was given less than a week ago.Yes, I will be looking for alternative banks now.  No, I will not be going to Bank of America.
