Another week , life goes on........ I usually hang on to the absurdity of life and from laughter in alot of things.  For instance I got felt up by one of the Vietnamese ladies again when I got my nails done.&amp;nbsp; Now I am not sure why they do this.... I think perhaps most Vietnamese women seem to be a bit small in the booby area and perhaps they think I am sticking a pair of socks in my bra or have silicone... I never quite know when one of their hand will flash forward and heft one of my breasts..... but next time I am just going to start charging them. I mean $10 a feel ...... maybe I will just let strangers cop&amp;nbsp;a feel to see they are real. Hell if I could make&amp;nbsp; $100 a week perhaps I will let you feel them both with BOTH hands.........  But I am running out of humor.&amp;nbsp; Todays job loss of 530,000 frankly is starting to scare me.&amp;nbsp; I am seeing our government run amok with our tax dollars and in my mind I keep seeing Indiana Jones running for his life from the big giant rolling boulder in one of those silly movies.&amp;nbsp; I mean $700 billion , $350 billion to AIG and the banks with NO accountability, no regulation , and the CEOS still sticking their fingers up at us as they live merrily on.&amp;nbsp; The bailout run by Treasurer Paulsen is the BIGGEST BOHICA moment of the year.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; In Chicago for instance a small company just went out of business yesterday laying off all the employees with no notice.&amp;nbsp; What happened is Bank of American cut off their line of credit.... Well ok that happens but Bank of American was one of the banks that got a billion or two or three or ten and were supposed to buy out toxic loans and LOOSEN CREDIT again to the businesses. God knows what they really did with the money, probably stashed it away and paid out bonuses to the Presidents.&amp;nbsp; But the little guys are marching on the Bank of America.&amp;nbsp; Marching with signs in front of the bank in Chicago. Good for them.&amp;nbsp; Bank of Americ said Happy to Bohica to them I wrote Bank of America and told them what I thought of them. I cant repeat it here , Tom of My Space would get mad at me. I protested the initial bailout to my congressman&amp;nbsp;Peter Roskum ( R) Illinois.&amp;nbsp; I got a letter explaining why the bailout was necessary and assuring me their would be oversight to help buy out toxic mortgages and there would be caps on CEO compensation. All I can say I was bohicaed.&amp;nbsp; I might was well bend over and show my ample posterior to the world while the government keeps sticking it to me. I think Secretary Paulsen is a traitor to this country.&amp;nbsp; I think he should be imprisoned and tried as such and sent to prison.&amp;nbsp; Did he create all this mess? Nope.&amp;nbsp; Both parties did... from Reagan who thought enough of mankind to believe if you deregulated the riches blessings would trickle down to the lower classes........ but he mistook the greed of some of the CEOS and their board of directors.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Then Clinton and NAFTA...... sounded good on paper but all it did was start outsourcing..... Bush Jr. Well he started the bankruptcy going with Iraq sucking us into a deficit and him greasing his oil company cronies.&amp;nbsp; ( Watch Exxon is still going to make a profit) And under Bush I have watched jobs hemmorhage out of this country to India , China and other hot spots like Sri Lanka...... Yes the democrats came in the last two years and I will have Barney Franks stand along Paulsen in front of a firing squad....... The idea that people with no money could pay mortgages they could not afford was the boner move of the decade. But where was Bushie and the Republicans.&amp;nbsp; Bush vetoed all sorts of other social programs ,&amp;nbsp; and the Democrats dont have enough votes to overide vetoes. So where was Bush and company when Frank , Dodd and Pelosi decided people should have a home even if they didnt have a chance in&amp;nbsp; hell of keeping it?  And now the Auto Industry.&amp;nbsp; Now I am so so so so angry that I am ready to start cursing in Sicilian ( the only words I learned because my mom only lapsed into Sicilian when saying things her daughter virgin ears shouldnt hear)....... Why the heck do people have so much trouble bailing out the Big three ?&amp;nbsp; Look I have no love for those cocky CEO bastards that flew in their private planes. They can be fired for all I care and NO BONUS for them . ( Said in my best Seinfeld NO SOUP FOR YOU voice)......... But we have to bail them out. Dont people understand this? I am not saying blindly hand them out money even though we did this for the rich Wall Street gang...... I mean their needs to be restructuring , concessions by UAW and NO CEO compensation till they show a profit. But dont you get it ?&amp;nbsp; If a million people lose their jobs we are going to be in a world of hurt. Do you think all those workers are just going to join a missionary in Daufur and leave?&amp;nbsp; Nope they are going to go on unemployment so they can pay their heating bills, medicind and food ( forget the mortgage there will not be enough left over)&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; And I figured based on the average automake making let say $50,000 a year they would get about $350 a week in UNEMPLOYMENT....... ok folks for those that passed fifth grade math......&amp;nbsp; 1,000,000 x$350 = $350 MILLION dollars a week.&amp;nbsp; $350 x 10 weeks equals $3.5 billion if the person goes a year without working we will be at $15 billion easy. And in case you forgot that comes out of OUR TAX DOLLARS.... and lets not forget people will also go on food stamps. Go to CEDA to get relief on heating costs. And they will lose their insurance. And for those who can afford COBRA on maybe $1200 a month to live on when Cobra can cost a family over $500 a month. Please write a book and do an infomercial so I can learn the secret. So that means. People will be flooding the emergency rooms that can not pay. , they will get public aid insurance for their kids. And then the auto part makers will lose their jobs. And small appliance stores,&amp;nbsp; and restaurants. and all those people will go on unemployment...... And lets not forget the Airline Industry, how many people will fly that are unemployed so there will be more layoffs there. So either way , bailout or no bailout the American taxpayer is going to pay billions and billions. I rather frankly have these people working. Now for a little known Bohica. The Airline Industry.&amp;nbsp; They are losing their rears again. UAL is going to lay off more people with other airlines to follow. They were all making profits until the oil prices started jumping up. Thats when things got kooky like charging for extra bags and water.&amp;nbsp; Believe me they are losing money.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; But what most dont know , is that when oil shot up to over $140 a barrel and the "experts" were talking about $5 a gallon gas. The major airlines hedged on oil. They locked in for 6 months - to a year with the big oil companies to guarantee oil per barrel at $100 a barrel.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; What guess what its now about $60 a barrel and they cant GET OUT OF THE HEDGE they committed to. Now to help a weakened economy you would think perhaps the oil companies would say ok we are dropping the price. Nope the got the major airlines by the short hairs....... If I were president I would make a emergency law and make the greedy SOBS at Exon oil repeal the hedge purchases and take the oil prices down to market rate. The airlines could lower rates a bit and return to profitability.&amp;nbsp; But it wont happen. I guess if someone had the balls to do that. that would be called socialism.&amp;nbsp; Well right now I have a family with no income coming in , no unemployment, no STD and the rent is due. I am seeing fear on peoples faces at work. My husband will be sweating out another round of lay offs in January. I am trying to see the humor in things but I am getting scared.&amp;nbsp;  530,000 people three weeks before Christmas. How sad, how frightening.&amp;nbsp; Where are we heading.&amp;nbsp; I dont know if Obama can turn it around but I am praying for the day Paulsen , Bush and Cheney are out of office. And they can take that moron Franks and Dodd with them.&amp;nbsp; All we can do is hang on. And try not to get farther into debt. Or we can do what a friend of mine did for my sister and her family .&amp;nbsp; She helped. She bought 7 bags of groceries for them. She has no idea how this touched me. I have thanked her but she doesnt know how much this meant to me.&amp;nbsp; I will pay it forward...... Perhaps as humans we will come out of 2008 and 2009 better people.&amp;nbsp;  PS...... backing my car into a pole with a $1000 deductible didnt help my mood either. I wonder how many boob feels it will take to raise the funds
