The federal bailout plan to date has focused on billions of dollars for big corporations and financial institutions. The government has guaranteed billions in home mortgages backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve has lent billions against asset backed securities collateralized by car loans, student loans, and credit cards. The proposed Obama administration plan focuses on infrastructure improvements in schools, roads, bridges, and alternative energy sources. While some of these loans, guarantees, and investments may be needed, Main Street needs additional help now. Upon taking office, the Obama administration should implement the six steps listed below to get Main Street moving.  Implement a 2009 tax credit of $1,000 for buying a new automobile that has a fuel efficiency that exceeds 30 miles per gallon for highway driving. This tax credit helps all automakers, dealers, and suppliers, (not just Detroit) promotes environmental conservation due to the miles per gallon restriction, and provides tax relief to new car purchasers. The existing tax credits for hybrid vehicles should also stay in effect.  Allow capital gain losses of up to $20,000 for taxpayers on their 2008 return. The current IRS code limits losses to $3,000 that are not offset by capital gains. In a typical year it would take a 5 percent loss on $60,000 in investments to lose $3,000. This year the same investment could easily be down 30 percent or more.  Require any corporation that takes federal bailout money to lower the interest rate on credit cards to 10 percent. Taxpayer money should come with strings attached. Many institutions are still charging up to 20 percent interest rates. A quick check of the Bank of America web site shows that interest rates, after the introductory period, range from 9.9 percent to 19.9 percent depending on the credit worthiness of the borrower. For borrowers that cannot pay, the interest rate is not going to matter when they file bankruptcy; for the rest it makes their monthly payment more affordable.  Unleash more SBA loans. A recent Wall Street Journal article detailed how small borrowers have been hurt by Congressional limits on SBA community express loans. These loans allow borrowers to seek $25,000 or less without putting up collateral. Some lenders were making up to 175 of these loans a month but have now been told by the SBA to limit the number of loans to ten.  Temporarily allow workers below full retirement age (currently 66) to retire with only a partial reduction in Social Security benefits. An individual retiring at age 62 reduces his/her social security benefit by 25 percent. Cutting this reduction in half to around 12 percent will likely entice some individuals to go ahead and retire thus freeing up jobs for other workers.  Implement a plan similar to the FDIC plan for sustainable mortgage modifications. This plan calls for restructuring home mortgages by reducing interest rates, lengthening loan terms and limited principal forbearance. Remember that principal forbearance is not principal forgiveness. Forbearance lowers the principal amount the interest payments are based on but requires the borrower to repay any principal forbearance upon the sale or refinancing of the home. Forbearance should be limited to 15 percent of the previous loan amount. The benefit is in lower payments for the borrower. However, some home loans will have to go into foreclosure. Any monthly payment that exceeds 38 percent of the borrower's income is generally not sustainable. Unlike before, loans without proper documentation of income will not be made.  Some may say these six steps are expensive. Many will say that are no more expensive than what has already been done.  
