So I'm coming up on the four year anniversary of being a mortgage paying home owner. I've enjoyed living here but I must confess that I haven't enjoyed the constant calls from bill collectors looking for people who use to have this address and/or phone number. It has gotten to the point where I've changed my answering machine to notify banks that this is the MCSWAINS and no one else.When I first moved in and got my phone hooked up it was three or four calls a day. I'd usually just let the machine pick up or I'd pick up and hang up without saying anything. It was when they started calling at 6:30 in the morning that I started to take a more proactive assault back.So one morning after getting home from a long night shift at WCNC, I was awoken by the all too familiar ring from Bank of America. It was usually a recording saying that the deadbeat was late on their credit card payment. I never listened much past them saying "This is Bank of America..." That morning I listened to the whole thing and I got someone on the line. I sternly told them that they had the wrong number and I'd appreciate if they'd quit calling.Bank of America got the picture and evidently when they updated their computer it trickled down the line as a lot of the calls stopped. However what didn't stop was the mail.I started collecting large sums of mail being delivered to the former residences of the house. When I'd make a trip to the post office I'd take it over and give it to them. Finally I asked the postal worker how I could get this to stop. He said that my house was on a new route and he'd make a note of it for the carrier and told me to write "unknown" on the letter and put it back in the mail if it continued.It stopped briefly but continued. It seems my mail carrier is Newman. He just doesn't seem to pay much attention, so I began writing "unknown" on the letters and putting them back. Until one day I started getting letters from the IRS. Important tax information started coming to one of the wrong names. I put "unknown" on it but more came.I consulted with my Dad on the matter. He said the IRS would get the picture pretty quick and stop sending them. I finally took a large stack of IRS letters over to the post office. It had been a year since my Dad told me that they would get the picture. They didn't get the picture.I plopped the letters down on the counter and told the same postal worker that these were to the wrong address. He told me again, that my house was on a new route. I interrupted him and said, "Friend, my house was built in 2003, how long before my route is no longer classified as new route?" He looked at me kind of puzzled and said he'd let the carrier know. I interrupted him again and said that he told me he'd do that last time and it didn't help.Several months passed since my last confrontation. I know keep a black Sharpie next to my door. The IRS has resorted to sending certified letters that require the recipient to come down to the post office and sign for the letters. I threw the first four away and last week I received a new one from my friends at the IRS. I took my sharpie and wrote in large letters "THIS PERSON DOES NOT LIVE HERE!" on it and put it back in the box.I get home today and what to my wondering eyes should appear but a letter from the IRS! This time I wrote all over the letter, front and back in big letters in black permanent marker with arrows pointing toward the name "THIS PERSON DOES NOT LIVE HERE". I use to fear the IRS. I always heard that they were not to be messed with. I've about decided that if they can't find Mrs. Johnson who hasn't lived in my house in over four years than they probably won't find me if I just up and moved and stopped paying my taxes.The truth of the matter is, the IRS probably owes Mrs. Johnson money and that is why they aren't actively trying to find her. They're thinking, we'll keep sending it to this address and sooner or later she'll get the letters.
