               "Real estate agents are trained to minimize emotional involvement by calling it a house when you sell it, and maximize emotional involvement by calling it a home when you buy it." Anonymous Wiki-answer to, "What is the difference between a house and a home?"###I got a letter from my landlord today that got me thinking: When I tried to renew my lease in Fall 2007, I got a rather snippy answer that went something like, "We are planning some remodeling. We are going to let [sic] you stay in your apartment month-to-month and then we will notify you when we remodel."The insinuation was that after the remodeling a new kind of "resident profile" would be sought, and I did not fit the hoity-toity standards. You had to be there--that statement above practically dripped adenoidal noblesse oblige.I lived in a place that is not really The Vinings--probably one of the most exclusive neighborhoods in Atlanta--but pretentious people CALL it The Vinings the way people in LA say, "Beverly Hills Adjacent."So pre-Crash they were seeing dollar signs. Post-Crash, my $625-per-month check that has been on time every time but once since early-2000 starts looking pretty darned good. I guess coupled with the fact that I don't have a stereo and musical instruments, don't smoke, never bitch about anything, etc.But that got me to thinking--I have often referred to my apartment as "my home."It's not a "home," it's a plywood box with a little bit of soundproofing added, but not quite enough to keep the thumping of the rug rats upstairs quiet and the omnipresent smell of curry powder from wafting into the kitchen. (That curry powder can take over a city block like kudzu does in the South--what is that stuff, anyway? The only time I really want to smell it is in a nice Indian restaurant on a Saturday night. During breakfast on a Tuesday, not so much.)Part of the problem facing the United States (and I guess the world) is that people overextended themselves on "house" to attempt to achieve a Ward and June Cleaver-type "dream." The "dream" was a dream, all right, but it was a nightmare dream that made you want your mommy.Previously, I discussed an interesting Century 21 commercial where the "smart wife" browbeat the "stupid husband" into overextending on house. And note I said HOUSE--a house is not a home until it is the place where your heart is.A mansion that you live in can be a "non-home" if your heart is not there. But a mobile HOME is a HOME if your heart is there.As a practical matter, I think it would be better for people buying a house to say, "Do we want the first house we saw, the second house we looked at, or the third house we looked at?'Rather than saying, "We like the HOME at 123 Elm Street."Once you call it a "home," you have done what us salespeople call, "taking possession of the sale."In other words, you have given away some of your negotiating power. On a subconscious level, once a real estate agent hears, "We like Home X that you showed us. That's a nice home," he or she probably thinks, "Great. My work is done. No more schlepping those people to any more HOUSES!"To the real estate agent, it is a HOUSE--sticks and bricks.I am just saying as the CONSUMER, it might be better if WE started thinking this, also.For an extreme example of the "House/Home Dichotomy," think of this--if you were alive and cognizant in the early-Seventies, what did you call an apartment with two floors?You called it a "townhouse."For some reason we let the real estate industry change that to, "town-HOME.""Townhome" suggests, "landed English gentry with a townhome, but his REAL home is in the English countryside." Bullshit. You are a struggling office worker that works in a cubicle. Then, for some undeserved reason, you have to come back to an apartment with other people who you may or may not even LIKE living on both sides of the paper walls. They are lucky we are giving them the "town" syllable in "townhouse."Of course a townhouse is in a town!What kind of crazy bastard would WILLINGLY have strangers right next to him on both sides of both walls, if he has 80,000 acres in the country like the Queen of England??But if you are a real estate agent or leasing agent, your life is pretty rough right now so I will give you the "town"-part. But it is not necessarily a "HOME" yet until I move all my crap into it. Even then, I would like to see some of Wally's football trophies on the mantle before I call it a home-but that ship has probably sailed, for me, anyway...Calling an empty house a "house" instead of a "home" is just a small thing. But think of it this way: What if every second-mortgage loan officer in the USA--including places like Citibank and Washington Mutual--were trained to say, "How much is your house worth?" instead of, "How much is your home worth?" in the loan application process?I used to know a guy who was a loan officer who would say, "Pretend there is an emergency and you HAD to sell your home. I am coming over tomorrow with a suitcase of cash. How much cash needs to be in the suitcase?"He said when he asked that way, he almost always got the correct value. In my plan I argue it would be even MORE correct if he said, "house."Here is my point: When you ask a person, "How much do you think your home is worth?" you get a Monopoly money-type answer.A house is only worth what somebody somewhere who is qualified to buy it (which makes the "suitcase of cash" thing a good plan) will pay for it.Just like a car.There is what the Kelly Blue Book SAYS a car is worth--and there is what somebody who is coming over with cash is willing to pay. The latter is more correct.I guess I am saying that we should think of houses more like we think of cars.I mean, you wouldn't give a welfare mother a brand new Corvette ("She can't even pay the ad valorem taxes and for the tune-ups!" The problem is that we thought it was suddenly different for a house--i.e., that a $150k house doesn't ALSO have taxes, insurance and repairs that she can't pay for.)--but pre-Crash, I suspect we sometimes put her in a $150,000 house.Labels: 2008 crash           
