I am so disgusted with this whole Obama birth certificate drama I don't know what to do with myself. This is just deplorable. A commenter here, FembotsforObama offered this yesterday:      People need to realize that as far back as 2006, Democrats have been working on the "natural born citizen requirement" even proposing that it be abolished. Calling it racist and silly. Why?   Why would the Democrats care if they weren't concerned that some Democrats were in fact ineligible to be POTUS?   Nobody knows definitively what "natural born citizen" means. This is for the SCOTUS to decide. The Democrats got us into this position and have been trying to thwart the Constitution.  Even Pravda, Russia's propaganda news, is claiming that should Obama be granted President by the electoral college, than we Americans have elected an illegal president and have no regard for our own "rule of law" standard. So where does the US get off on telling the rest of the world on how to act towards its own citizens.   The Russians are laughing at us. How do you think the Iran, Venezuela, and the terrorists are going to think? We will have no bargaining power because our leader will not be legitimate in their eyes.   http://www.worldnetdaily.com/index.php?fa=PAGE.view&amp;pageId=82680      It is a sad day in America. If indeed the whole world is laughing at us, Obama's claims of being able to fix the American image in the world will be yet another thing to add to the list of things he will have uttered knowing that it wasn't possible. Obama knows that he is not eligible to be president of this nation. This is not some oversight on his behalf. He knows that he is not eligible and if he puts his hand on that Holy Bible and takes the oath of office, it will be one of the greatest travesties this nation has seen in decades. The world truly is flat in this digital age and this is not the time to take a chance on swearing in an individual who everybody knows is not legally eligible to lead this nation. There was just a report a few days ago that there would be a biological attack in this nation within the next four years. Is this really the time to give terrorists the ammunition they need to really take it to us? In the face of our own hipocrasy should Obama be sworn in?   I truly hope that the high court will rectify this situation, but I'm not that optimistic. I got a mailer from Bank of America today offering Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance and I scoffed at it, but maybe it's not such a bad idea afterall........Maybe I should get it before Obama is sworn in. Might be kind of difficult to get here in the D.C. metro afterwards without paying an arm and a leg--no pun intended...... Check outPastor Manning below offering a plea to the high court regarding this birth certificate matter.--SUGAR        
