The news media is portraying GM, Ford, and Chrysler and begging for money from the US Gov't. Damn them, how dare they! Don't they know the economy is failing and the USG just promised billions to the finance and mortgage industry!So let's look at this for a second. The government promised several hundreds of billions of dollars in LOAN GUARANTEEs to the mortgage and finance industries in the blink of an eye. They did this to basically keep the economy from imploding because of very poor lending and investment practices being led on by Fannie Mae, and Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve Bank (not a government entity) stands to make money on the aforementioned bailout, so it stands to reason that those in the Senate and The House would pass those bailouts so quickly. Another reason the loans were approves so quickly was because several senators and representative have close ties to the Fed, and to Fannie and Freddie. They stand to make money on the deal.Now lets look at the car manufacturers. No one in Congress has a vested interest in the auto makers. No one on their boards of directors have any ties to D.C., so naturally Congress is going to make the Big-3 beg. (Note: The U.S. Gov. made money when we gave loan guarantees to the airline industry.)Here is what I believe the auto industry needs to do: Starting with GM- quit building a 6-month supply of cars! Every-time there is a down-turn in the economy, GM has to firesale it's vehicles and furlough it's workforce until demand dictates it is time to start building again.  They also need to look farther ahead in time than one or two model years to develop car and trucks we need. Like hybrids, alternative fuel vehicles, and the like. I guess the same could be said for all car builders. Why do we need a Suburban, Tahoe, and Escalade? GM could save some cash by offering fewer versions of each model they build. If you want to buy a Corvette, buy one, why the heck are you going buy a Cadillac version of the Vette, when the original is available with the same options? Ford has to take a page out of the book of Toyota and GM and work on more Hybrid vehicles. The technology is there, but other than the Escape/Mariner SUV, they have nothing to compete. The Focus is thrifty, but it could be more-so. I know Ford has a vision for alternative fueled vehicles, but they too are not meeting the market demand, nor are they being ground-breaking.Same goes for Chrysler as Ford.The other side of the problem is that the UAW has a stranglehold on the manufacturers. The reason car prices are where they are is because of labor. (I am not that naive to think that is the only reason prices have risen in the past ten years, but it is a big factor.) Why do you think manufacturers of other products have gone outside the USofA to produce their wares? To finish my point of this rambling blog entry, I will say this in closing, it is time for the auto manufacturers to look at their future seriously before asking for any loans. They need to plan future products to meet the needs of society in the long run, and do it in way that people will want their products over the foreign products. It is time to set the pace and work toward better profitability.This is my humble opinion  and I welcome any discussion.RJ
