I couldn't remember if I deleted that message. But I told you to tell me asap whether Citibank received the payment so that I can delete it right? You didn't, you waited for 24 hours to lapse. Me, being ever prudent when it comes to your things, did not dare to delete that message because (a) if the payment is not received, you will accuse me of inputing the numbers wrongly, for which I would then have proof from the sms, and the receipt that i did not; and (b) if there was a mistake, and the payment was somehow not made, i could still try to pay again. I did not leave the sms there so that I can use your cc details. You know I'm not like that.How was I to know I will lose my handphone?You could only accuse me of "Got too drunk right?" You didn't even try to console me all this while. You didn't even try to call. More than 48 hours, you could go online and update your facebook but you couldn't call your girlfriend and console her a little. The first thing i did was to make sure there was no unauthorised transaction made in the name of your credit card. the chances are that low yet you were always my first priority. yes, some inconvenience to you, but if what you said was that true, that you will have to stay in camp for 2 weeks, without being able to book out, you wouldn't need to use your cc card anyway! I gave you my ez link card, you can just top it up and use. It is not such a big deal. By the time you come back from training, your new card would be ready and sent to you for use. Why are you ignoring me like that now? You just don't give a damn. You're so inconsiderate sometimes, so insensitive, and selfish. You don't care if I hurt, it's always about you and your convenience. You can just go about not calling for 48 hours, after hanging up on me in the last call we had to each other. You don't care if I'm worried. You just don't give a damn. You can go online, you mean you can't send me an email? or an online sms? we've been through this "disappearing act" of yours too many times.I'm completely hurt and I've nothing else to say.You don't give a damn right? Fine.I don't give a damn too.
