     National Copper Bank, Salt Lake City 1911  Former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer debuted as a columnist for Slate Magazine yesterday with an article entitled &amp;#8220;Too Big Not To Fail&amp;#8221;. And he gets it about the bailout fiasco. Spitzer correctly argues it is not the banks that are the underlying problem it is:   Our trade deficit has ballooned from about $100 billion to more than $700 billion annually in the past decade, and our federal deficit now approaches $1 trillion. These twin deficits leave us at the mercy of foreign-capital inflows that may diminish as Asian nations, in particular, invest increasingly at home. Our household savings rate has been close to zeroand even negative in some yearsnot permitting the long-term capital accumulation required for the investments we need; China&amp;#8217;s savings rate, by comparison, is an astonishing 30 percent of household income. U.S. middle class income has stagnated over the past decade, while the middle class in Chinagranted, starting from a lower basehas seen its income growing at about 10 percent annually. Our intellectual advantage could soon turn into a new &amp;#8220;third deficit,&amp;#8221; as hundreds of thousands of engineers are being created annually in China. We are realizing that the service sectorall the lawyers, investment bankers, advertising agencies, and accountantsfollows its clients and wealth creation. This, not over-regulation, is the reason investment-banking activity has begun to migrate overseas.   He goes on to say: Nobody disputes that radical action was needed to forestall total collapse. But we are creating the significant systemic risk not just of rewarding imprudent behavior by private actors but of preventing, through bailouts and subsidies, the process of creative destruction that capitalism depends on. And finally he recommends: It is time we permitted the market to work: This means true competition with winners and losers; companies that disappear; shareholders and CEOs who can lose as well as win; and government investment in the long-range competitiveness of our nation, not in a failed business model of financial concentration and failed risk management that holds nobody accountable. Bailing out the banks directly contradicts the idea that capitalism requires some businesses to succeed and others to fail. That is how we prevent codependent, inefficient, giant bureaucracies from strangling the life out of the economy. And until the people in charge understand this concept and change their approach to the banking crisis, our economy will not be too big to not continue failing. Related articles by Zemanta  the spitz is a columnist now Spitzer vs Big Finance, Part 2   Post from: Democracy for Vancouver        
