happened across an exceptionally upsetting upsettting article reminding of stuff i don't think about in the specific too often [advise not going to read the comments. i stopped after the third "this is because Those People are backwards barbarians {insert a tacit "unlike us enlightened westerners"} and we might as well ignore them all/can never negotiate with them/other simplistic point-missing statement" comment.]. basically, i KNOW this happens. i just feel helpless. i don't know HOW to help, i don't know what to do without coming over all (post) colonial and "hello i have solved all your problems for you plz be grateful p.s. we totally don't have any violence against women or lack of support for women who are assualted here as we are now perfecto!1".anyway, turns out there is a small help that i, and anyone who can afford to do so, can offer - donating to pakistan's Progressive Women's Association. check out the site - they are doing some amazing stuff. they accept paypal - to pwaisbd at yahoo dot com or, if you're in the US, they also have two ways for americans to donate:  electronic-transfer to  account number 00146303 3058 (bank of america, FL) or checks for Shahnaz Bukhari (for PWA) posted toShahnaz BokhariPWA USA3395 NE, st -10 ,  #-101Homestead, FL 33033 the address in pakistan isShahnaz BokhariPWA Islamabad24A house,  street 38, sector-F8 / 1 Islamabad, Pakistan  (when i emailed just to ask if they accepted paypal - i swear there was no paypal info on their "how to help" page last week - the email i got back started:THANK  YOU !!!&amp;hearts;)1belfast has the ONLY rape crisis centre in northern ireland. in november, one of the workers there remortgaged her home to keep it open. because in their GREAT WISDOM the department of health &amp; social services cut their funding. whatever. they only get 3000 phone calls a year after all. and you know, sexual violence and attitudes to it are not at all a problem in northern ireland. oh no. *hysterical laughter* meanwhile, earlier this year, the same department chose to give anti-choice assholes LIFE a grant for 78,000.  p.s. the rape crisis ni also accept donations.
