Deal Journal&#8217;s first point-counterpoint discussion presents two views including the one below and Heidi Moore&#8217;s column, &#8220;The Street Smarts of Ken Lewis.&#8221;  You have to love Wall Street. The outrages just keep getting bigger and better. The second Bank of America bailout may just take the cake. The American taxpayer once again is being called on to pay for the mistakes of a CEO.  This time, it is the price Ken Lewis paid for Merrill Lynch, a business that may have been worth nothing. Americas Banker of the Year? How about Chump of the Year? How else to explain the thorough snookering the Merrill Wall Street boys gave Bank of America? You might recall that in September, as Merrill was dutifully following Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy, the Banker of the Year came to the rescue with a 70% premium and $44 billion of BofA shares for Merrill Lynch shareholders. At the time, the rich price was baffling. In fact, Barclays was to soon pick up most of Lehman&#8217;s business for a few hundred million dollars. Apparently Lewis was eager to make the Thundering Herd happy. Now, with an unanticipated $10 billion in fresh losses at Merrill and $20 billion more of government money, how happy are BofA shareholders? Go ahead and ask their class-action lawyers. Before the Merrill deal, a share of Bank of America traded at about $34. Today, a share trades at a little more than $7, that is a decline of almost 80%. Of course, the Merrill deal alone isn&#8217;t to blame for the mess at Bank of America. All of the worlds banks are suffering. And CEOs overpay for acquisitions all the time. But the Merrill deal is an outlier&#8211;an awful deal at inception that just keeps on getting worse. The optics of Merrill executives, Tom Montag and Peter Kraus pocketing tens of millions of dollars in payouts were bad. That little tussle over Thain&#8217;s bonus was unseemly. But nothing is as bad as Merrill posting a staggering $15 billion loss in the fourth quarter. To uncover that two-thirds of these losses arose after the Dec. 5 shareholder vote is not only inexplicable, it is inexcusable. By November and December, everyone on Wall Street assumed the worst. Except, apparently, Ken Lewis and his team at Bank of America. BofA claims it conducted an excruciating level of due diligence on Merrill Lynch.  But given Lewis&#8217;s surprise over Merrills losses in December how can that be? It will be interesting to see if the commercial banker from Mississippi can keep up, now that the Wall Street guys have worked him over. He better get a move on. This Merrill deal has put him way behind.        
