Banks Loan Losses Could Reach $2 TrillionPosted By WSJ Staff On January 15, 2009 @ 12:05 pm In Credit Crisis   5 CommentsIt is little wonder financial markets are taking a beating. Despite all of the talk of fiscal stimulus and the hope of a new administration, one very large figure stands in the way of a real economic recovery. That number is $2 trillion  the losses that investors and financial institutions are potentially sitting on from bad loans. Estimating loan losses is a fuzzy process. It is very sensitive to what happens to the economy, home prices and other variables. It is muddled by the obscurity of the securities sitting on many financial institution balance sheets. And it is obscured by what one decides to measure  some key estimates these days only look at losses on U.S. loans, not the bad mortgages and debt sitting in places like Europe. But one thing is sure. The number keeps growing and a sustained recovery for markets is unlikely until the hole is filled. Analysts at Goldman Sachs were the latest to jack up estimates of potential U.S. loan losses. In a report released late Tuesday night, Goldman economists estimated that losses from delinquent U.S. residential mortgages alone would hit $1.1 trillion as home prices sink, up from an earlier estimate of $780 billion. Add in losses from commercial real estate, credit cards, auto debt and business debt and Goldmans loan loss estimate hit $2.1 trillion. Many of those losses will be born by investors and banks overseas, though the estimate doesnt count losses that U.S. institutions will take on bad overseas loans that they hold. Financial institutions are likely to remain under considerable pressure from rising US credit losses, Goldman economist Jan Hatzius said in a research note on the issue. He added, Loss recognition by US financial institutions still has a long way to go. Goldmans original estimate last March was $1.2 trillion and it was seen by many as pessimistic at the time. As the economy weakens, the problem grows and the process feeds on itself. As unemployment rises and consumer spending shrinks, new households and firms fall behind on debt payments or default altogether, further weakening banks and creating a self-feeding loop.The financial shock of the fourth quarter seems to have done just that, hitting the economy and feeding back into the financial sector. When banks or other financial institutions recognize a loss, it depletes their capital, making them reluctant to make new loans until the capital is replenished. And when their share prices fall, it makes it harder for them to raise money in the private sector. That all plays into the Bank of America and Citigroup stories making the headlines today. Goldman analysts estimate that only $1 trillion worth of losses have been recognized, leaving financial institutions and investors with more write-offs, in need of additional capital and reluctant to make new loans. Goldman could be overestimating the loan-loss problem. Its latest assessment hinged on a prediction that home prices will fall as much as 10% more into 2010 (as measured by the Ofheo home price index.) But home prices by themselves dont cause defaults. An individual could decide to stay in his home even if hes losing money on it (ie the home value is below the mortgage balance.) Still Goldmans economists found a strong statistical correlation between loan losses and home prices. Their estimate assumes home prices will overshoot their fair value on the downside and drive more households into default. Other projections of loan losses in recent months are growing. In October, the International Monetary Fund estimated loan losses on U.S. assets would hit $1.4 trillion. On Jan. 29, they update the number is it looks like their new estimate will be at least $1.7 trillion and perhaps higher. Jon Hilsenrath--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Article printed from Real Time Economics: http://blogs.wsj.com/economicsURL to article: http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2009/01/15/banks-loan-losses-could-reach-2-trillion/
