Citigroup Inc.'s stock dipped below $4 a share Friday. "Rumor mongering" was the cause of the stock's cliff dive, according to CEO Vikram Pandit, as executives over at Citi continue to reiterate that its capital position is "very strong." Of course, we've heard that before from the likes of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before they failed, so naturally bloggers and the Street are wary of what the executives are saying and speculating that over the weekend Citigroup will probably get rescued by the U.S. government or could even be acquired.Downplaying rumors seem to be helping Pandit and CFO Gary Crittenden as much as it helped Lehman's Dick Fuld prior to the bankruptcy of the investment bank. The two reportedly said on the conference call that, "the banking giant's plunging stock price has little to do with the operations of the organization, which remain strong," and that Citigroup apparently does not want to change its business model and plans to keep its Smith Barney brokerage, according to Reuters. However, shareholders certainly have some say in such a decision, as Clusterstock explains.So what will happen this weekend? The blog Bronte Capital has some interesting suggestions:It is open to Sheila Bair (and her fellow regulators) to seize Citigroup (deeming it unsound) and to leave at the holding company - and worth near zero - all the equity, preferred shares and holding company debt obligations.&amp;nbsp; Indeed this is precisely what she did at Washington Mutual...She has the power to guarantee some assets of the new entity - and her guarantees carry the full faith and credit of the US Government. If Sheila Bair was to confiscate a really big bank and cancel all the parent company liabilities then no other bank in America would be able to raise parent company debt... And that would be a huge decision indeed because then every bank with parent company liabilities (meaning almost every bank in North America) would fail. Many - but not all - could be taken over in the same fashion at little cost to the government. But almost all of them would wind up property of the US Government.If that's not gloomy enough, the discussion boards are full of more doom:&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Too much things happen over the weekend this year.  Bear Stern bailed on the weekend, Lehman Brothers failed on the weekend, Merill Lynch got bought by Bank of America over the weekend, Fannie and Freddie took over happen at the weeken, Wachovia acquired over the weekend. And here goes again, Citigroup. what is gonna be the headline on Monday?    Even if Citi doesn't go under on Monday. Citi still has hundreds of billions of CDO debt problem I am a staunch supporter of Citigroup, and I believe the only way this company can make any headway is to fire a man who has not done a single thing for Citi that is beneficial! Fire Pandit! Where have Citi's investor relations team been today? They need to release a statement to get through the weekend.What do you think will happen to Citigroup this weekend? Leave a comment. - Maria Woehr
