My master&amp;#8217;s course has started since July. Since then, I rarely have the time to update this blog. However, this blog is still pretty much alive and I will do my best to provide updates.  This year&amp;#8217;s markets have gone wild. With the demise of Lehman Brothers, sales of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America, nationalization of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and near collapse of AIG, we see that in the capital markets, there are only two traits: greed and fear. Here&amp;#8217;s a very fundamental question in response to Ivan Boesky&amp;#8217;s famous quote &amp;#8220;Greed is good&amp;#8221;: Is greed really good?  I opine that greed is good. However, greed must come with prudence. Greed without prudence has led to the subprime crisis with all the banks all over the world writing down their assets and making huge paper and realized losses. In economic theory, often than not, economists assume that market participants are rational. Essentially, the word &amp;#8220;rational&amp;#8221; is merely a euphemism for &amp;#8220;greed&amp;#8221;, where by the participants seek to maximize their returns given a certain level of risk. Greed is so fundamental in an economy that it is the fuel of the economy. The capital markets are merely intermediaries for those people with money to earn more by investing, and give the opportunity to the people with less to fund their needs.  To illustrate this, lets take an economy without the capital markets, company A has a great idea and a positive NPV project but has not capital to execute while investor B has the funds but nowhere to put her money. Funds will never flow from investor B to company A if there are not financial intermediaries in place. If we have financial intermediaries, then funds will transfer from B to A to enable the execution of the project that will eventually contribute to the economy. And here, investor B will not be willing to put in his funds unless there is an opportunity to earn at least some returns. This is Greed in work!  Greed without prudence, however, is taking in more risks than the returns can justify. Some of the players in the market point their fingers to the predatory lending in the mortgage markets, the inflated credit rating of the CDO and etc. These are all greed without prudence in action. Not only are those involved taking in more risks, they inflate the true state and value of the securities. Hence, valuations of securities go haywire and when things start to collapse, we see Fear taking over. In September and October this year, we have seen great fear in the market. The credit markets seizing up, LIBOR rates shot up overnight, TED spread jumped. The reason? Well, investors or banks do not know each others financial standing. Given that, no investor or institution will lend out money as they have no idea who will be the next to default on their lending.  At the point of typing this article, the crisis is still well underway. There are no signs of recovery anywhere. The central bankers are driving the interest rates to zero. The automakers are suffering from dwindling sales. GM announced lack of operating cash flow to survive next year. Casino operators and hotel operators are facing illiquidity and declining revenue. Unemployment rate is increasing given that no one is hiring and everyone is firing. I guess, there will be more fear in the markets before greed begins to dominate again.  
