 Diversify your risks  You read in the newspaper that some investors placed their live savings or funds meant for retirement use, in structured products linked to Lehman Brothers Inc. These products were structured to offer higher interest payments above the meager bank interest rates. They were popular to retail investors who were not satisfied with low bank deposit interests. These products came onto the markets in 2006 in a big way with eye-catching newspaper advertisement on their high interest payouts.   Bank relationship managers and insurance agents (I know of one insurance company which has similarly structured products) were promoting these products without any inkling that in 2008, they were to see a dramatic collapse of reputable financial institutions which made these products worthless or significantly reduced values. To be fair, they too felt then that the products will not fail the way it has happened.  From last year till middle of this year, we saw the prices of commodities were shooting skywards. Costs of corns, wheat, soy, rice, oil, gold, steel, etc sent alarm bells ringing round the world. Inflation was a real concern up till only recently when the slow economic growth overtook it as public enemy number one. Commodity traders were projecting new high prices and advised investors to buy into investments tied to commodities during stratospheric advances of these commodities. Again investors went with the crowd and buy into commodities or unit trusts of companies in this sector. Now these commodities have come down to earth losing 40% to 50% in values. The oil price per barrel is now about US$60 per barrel down 60% from all time high of US$147.  Investing in shares did not escape these onslaughts. From markets in the US, Europe, Japan, China, Middle East to Singapore, we see their market capitalisation reduced by 40% to 65% from beginning of this year.  Even currency investments suffered the same fate. For instance, the Australian dollar lost 20 over percent against Singapore dollar from its peak. It is a double whammy if you have placed your money in foreign currency deposit. You lose in currency conversion back to Singapore dollar and at the same time the interest rate has since come off after the Reserve Bank of Australia reduced the cash rate by 75 basis points to 5.25%, effective 5 November 2008.  It is apparent that most investments have all suffered in this downturn. Even, property values and rentals are declining starting from the US (where the sub-prime mortgage started), UK and the rest of the world.   If you have $200,000 of your life savings and you invest all in Lehman Brothers structured product, you will find very quickly that this savings will be wiped out by the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The interest rate may be enticing at the beginning but one must not put all the eggs in one basket. The same can be said when one place a huge amount in currency-linked investment. $200,000 can easily be dwindled to $100,000 at current market valuation.  The simple advice is to break up the total investment amount into several investments. If one investment fails, you still have the other portions to hold onto. In this poor economic climate, it will be wise to place up to half in cash, bank deposits and Singapore government bonds. The other half can be spread between equities, corporate bonds, commodities and currencies.   Even when you have decided to invest in unit trusts that invest in shares of companies, it pays to spread the risk further by not investing al in single-country stocks and shares. You may consider investing in global equities. The concept of diversification applies just as well.  Diversification of risk is not new. Every financial management book covers it. It becomes prominent during this time because we see good money wasted on bad investments as the Lehman Brothers Inc investment products turned out to be.  Written on 11/12/2008 4:39 PM  Copyright  2008, the author known as LKT in Singapore.   The material presented is intended to be general and written in laymans language as much as it is possible. The author shall not be liable for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of material written. Please seek professional advice from your financial advisor or financial institutions on material written covering financial matters.
