GEF @ 11:58 AM EDT  86% of Bailout Money Used for Executive Bonuses When confronted about these numbers, the executives will always claim that the bonuses are paid out of other funds and company earnings. This completely ignores the fact that without the taxpayers bailout money, there would be no earnings! If there was anyone left who still felt like the bailout was a good idea (besides the executives who directly benefit), this should be the final nail in the coffin that we were just robbed blindly while the politicians patted themselves on the back. The election results pretty much confirmed the extent to which Main Street is rightly livid about the Wall Street mentality that led to our financial crisis. During his historic victory speech, President-elect Barack Obama told supporters, and the rest of the world, If this financial crisis taught us anything, its that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street while Main Street suffers. But, it seems that Wall Street didnt get that memo. It turns out that the nine banks about to be getting a total equity capital injection of $125 billion, courtesy of Phase I of The Bailout Plan, had reserved $108 billion during the first nine months of 2008 in order to pay for compensation and bonuses (PDF). Paying Wall Street bonuses was not supposed to be part of the plan. At least thats how Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson explained it to Congress and the American people. So, on Oct. 1, when the Senate, including Obama, approved the $700 billion bailout package, the illusion was that this would magically loosen the credit markets, and with taxpayer-funded relief, banks would first start lending to each other again, and then, to citizens and small businesses. And all would be well. That didnt happen. Which is why its particularly offensive that the no-strings-attached money is going to line the pockets of Wall Street execs. The countrys top investment bank (which since Sept. 21 calls itself a bank holding company), Goldman Sachs, set aside $11.4 billion during the first nine months of this year  slightly more than the firms $10 billion U.S. government gift  to cover bonus payments for its 443 senior partners, who are set to make about $5 million each, and other employees.  Two of those firms, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, went bankrupt this year. Bank of America is acquiring a third, Merrill Lynch. Shares in the remaining two, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, took a 60 percent nosedive this year. Yet, that didnt stop their campaign contribution money from spewing out. Goldman was Obamas largest corporate campaign contributor, with $874,207. Also in his top 20 were three other recipients of bailout capital: JP Morgan/Chase, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley. Read the full article here. Its worth also noting that Goldman Sachs was John McCains 4th largest contributor, just behind Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, and Morgan Stanley (source). Posted in Uncategorized&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Tagged: Bailout for Bonuses, Golden Parachutes&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;     
