Mid-NOVEMBER 2008 UPDATE OF THE SECOND GREATDEPRESSION  INCIDENTAL The book The Second Great Depression is no longer being printed. An updated hardcover edition titled The Great Depression of Debt takes its place and will be available December 1. This book is also being printed in Chinese, so I hope to substantially help our balance-of-payments! Another of my books, Getting Started in Investment Analysis, just became available. These books are being published by John Wiley &amp;amp; Sons and will be available in bookstores and from on-line booksellers.    THE STOCK MARKET The S&amp;amp;P 500 is down 37% for the year, and the current price/dividend ratio is 34.6. As stated in my book, a possible entry point back into the market is when the p/d ratio is 17. So, either the market still has a long way to fall or dividends must rise substantially! And I find it unlikely that dividends will rise!   RETAIL SALES Retail sales fell by a record amount in October. Auto sales fell to the lowest level in 17 years; but even without autos, other sales dropped at a record amount. Since consumers make up about 70% of our gross domestic product, this bodes poorly for our economy.   UNEMPLOYMENT Unemployment shot up to 6.5% in October, which is a 14-year high. The number of longer-term Americans drawing unemployment benefits hit a 25-year high. And the number of planned job cuts reported in October was the highest in 5 years.   FORECLOSURES Foreclosure rates for October were up 25% from a year ago. Although lenders have become more aggressive in trying to modify mortgages and keep people in their homes, their successes so far have been quite limited in comparison to the size of the problem. As of the end of June, more than 4 million homeowners were at least one payment behind on their mortgages, and 500,000 had started the foreclosure process, per the Mortgage Bankers Association.   BAILOUTS Paulson is still trying to figure out what to do with the $700 billion. The original plan of buying distressed mortgage-backed securities has been abandoned because of issues on determining their worth. However, that very problem is causing the banks to remain somewhat tight-fisted because they dont know how much bad debt they still own. Instead of buying these problem mortgages, the government is using $250 billion to buy bank stock to give the banks extra capital. This extra capital is sometimes being used by the financial institutions for other than increasing the number of loans.   AIG, the troubled insurance giant, needs more money than originally thought. The loan and aid package is so far at $150 billion, with some people estimating that the total required will be $400 billion. Its only money!   The U.S. car companies also want a handout, but Paulson wants to keep the $700 billion for his financial friends. Congress is considering money for cash-hungry GM, Ford, and Chrysler; but there are many in Congress who question the long-term viability of these companies. They are behind in efficient car development, have outmoded plants, and have expensive union contracts.   WORLD MONEY SUPPLY Money creation is happening around the globe. In the U.S., money growth (M2) for the last year was 7.4%; Germany 10%; UK 12%; and Japan 16%. And, of course, with the bailout package starting to kick in, the U.S. money growth is now running at an annual rate of 16%. Could this be inflationary? And other countries, with their generous bail-out packages, are going to see their money supply jump also.   WORLD ECONOMIES Most countries are seeing dramatic slowdowns. China has even incorporated a $500 billion stimulus package targeted towards their infrastructure. Of course, their infrastructure is so bad that this could end up being a real productivity boost!   Germany is the latest country to officially declare that they are in a recession.   I feel that we are closely tracking the projections in my book towards a depression! But, as always, people should use their own judgment/data to affect their own investment strategies; and they should not blindly use the above information. Intelligent people can, and do, disagree.   Warren  
