I&amp;#039;ve been watching CNBC which is the financial arm of NBC.    It seems like this is the progression of the current crisis:    1. The subprime debacle where lenders were willing to lend to borrowers who didn&amp;#039;t have the ability to take out huge loans for houses which were valued above their actual value.    2. When housing values started dropping, those who were holding the inflated mortgage papers suddenly found that they were sitting on assets that was worth considerably less than when they first invested in them.    3. The investment banks such as Bear Stearns, Morgan Stanley, etc. were essentially unregulated, so they were doing whatever they wished in the mortgage as well as other financial areas (they are also stock brokerage houses).    4. In other words, the vaults of these investments banks were essentially empty or else much depleted.     5. Collapse of the investment banks. First Bear Stearns. Then Merrill Lynch does the only thing open to it, sell itself at a fire sale price to Bank of America. Then, Lehman Brothers, the third investment house started to fall (empty vaults) and the Feds stepped in to shore it up. Now Morgan Stanley, the fourth big investment house, is looking to combine with Wachovia Bank, just as Merrill Lynch had to combine with Bank of America. Which leaves Goldman Sachs whose fate I haven&amp;#039;t really tracked, but it must be looking for a merger somewhere to save itself.    6. Simultaneously, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, also in the housing sector, need to be saved - again by the Federal Government.    7. As if the above wasn&amp;#039;t enough, AIG, the world&amp;#039;s largest insurance conglomerate, needs to be rescued as well. If not, there would have been resounding implications around the world. Federal Government steps in again.    8. What started as a housing crisis is snowballing right into the heart of the US financial structure, Wall Street.     9. Meanwhile on Main Street, the regular banks have become cautious and are refusing to make loans, thus credit is frozen. A company can&amp;#039;t borrow money to expand, an individual can&amp;#039;t borrow money to buy a house. As one commentator has characterized it, it&amp;#039;s a &amp;amp;quot;classic lock&amp;amp;quot; (whatever that means). Money, which makes the world goes around, is frozen.     10. Stocks plunge. With money frozen, there can be no growth in the economy. People want out of the stock market. The Feds are afraid that not only will there be a run/precipitous drop in the stock market, but the little guys are going to take their money out of the local banks, thus creating a run on the regular banks as well - 1930s would have been peanuts compared to what would have happened.    11. At this stage the very &amp;amp;quot;fundamentals&amp;amp;quot; which has been stabilizing this country begin to shake, rattle and roll. The rest of the world, in a globalized economy, is being threatened as well. When the US economy collapses, it threatens to take the rest of the world with it. Stocks plunge all over the world.    12. Enter some of the central banks of the world. Some of the foreign central banks are willing to shore up the US economy with loans of - what was the amount again? - $1 trillion? $2 trillion?    13. US Federal Reserve Bank and Secretary Paulsen, who came out of Goldman Sachs, step forward with a bold plan to shore up those gigantic companies that are failing (AIG, etc) with equally gigantic infusions of cash. The purpose? To get everyone&amp;#039;s confidence up again AND to get the money flowing again, so business and life can go on.    14. To stop the slide on Wall Street, short selling is forbidden for 799 stocks until October 2. (Short selling is essentially betting that the prices of stocks will drop).      15. Stocks soar on the basis of a shadowy plan that is short on details and whose only certainty is that the average taxpayer is going to have to anti up - again.    16. Right now, this plan - still hush-hush at this stage - has been presented to Congress and over the weekend Congress will debate how to get us out of this mess.     More than at any other time in our history, we need everyone to be pulling their oars in the same direction. It&amp;#039;s going to take an entire village.    Will Congress be able to forget they are Republicans and Democrats and believe they are Americans all?     Will they be able to come together without this incessant partisan bickering?     Will there be leaks over these next few days while Congress debates what to do and how to do it? (Does rain fall from the sky?) In other words, will some members of Congress try to get public opinion on their side before the plan can be discussed fully in an objective way?     Is this plan really the answer?     How do you think it will impact you on an individual level?     I have so many questions. What do you think?         
