The yen continued to soar relative to the dollar, briefly hitting the upper 90 range Friday in London for the first time in 13 years and two months.  The yen soared earlier Friday in Tokyo on darkening prospects over the health of the global economy, plummeting to the 92 level, down sharply from 97.34-44 yen in New York at 5 p.m. Thursday.The yen's rapid rise triggered an 811.90-point selloff in export-related stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange as investors fretted the stronger yen's impact on exporters' profits and the economy. 'Financial markets have crashed and are out of control,' said Yuji Ogino, an executive director at Meiji Dresdner Asset Management Co. 'This crash is different from anything I've experienced since getting into this business in the late 1980s and it's hard to find ways to ride out the situation.' By the time the selling spree was over, the key Nikkei average had plunged 9.6 percent to close at 7,649.08, its lowest since April 2003 and just 41 points off its record low closing in 1982. The broader Topix index of all first-section issues fell 65.59, or 7.5 percent, to close at 806.11. The Nikkei lost 12 percent of its value this week, while the Topix lost 9.9 percent.Sony, which gets three-quarters of its revenue from outside Japan, took a 14 percent plunge to its lowest price since 1995, while Toyota's stock fell 6.4 percent. Canon Inc., the world's biggest digital-camera maker, and Panasonic Corp. plunged more than 12 percent as the surging yen cut the value of overseas sales.The Nikkei has lost half its value this year as the credit crisis led to a slowdown in the global economy. Chances that the Bank of Japan will cut interest rates by year's end to avert a prolonged recession grew to 24 percent from 3 percent a month ago, based on JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. calculations of interest-rate swaps. 'I can't rule out a scenario where the yen rises even faster than I had anticipated,' said Toru Umemoto, chief currency analyst in Tokyo at Barclays Capital, Britain's third-biggest lender. 'Speculators are unwinding carry trades.' 
