Previous of Companies Next FTSE 250 FTSE 100 The index, including Britain's biggest companies, tumbled 7.9pc yesterday, but climbed 100 points in early trading in London, led by mining companies. British banks, including Barclays and HBOS, also rose. Mining stocks and banks were among the worst hit on Monday. Asian stock markets were earlier provided some respite after the Australian central bank slashed interest rates. The decision to cut rates 1 percentage point to 6pc - a bigger move than expected - provided investors with some hope that governments will act together to give the world economy a boost. Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, will today meet with European counterparts in an effort to secure a co-ordinated response. Unilateral moves by individual governments such as Ireland and Germany to protect savers in their own countries has contributed to uncertainty and recent market turbulence. The markets reacted with disappointment to the government's attempts to address the economic strife yesterday, dropping sharply as Mr Darling addressed Parliament. The Bank of England meets on Thursday to make its next decision on interest rates, and G7 finance ministers and central bankers will meet on Friday in Washington. The Australian central bank's biggest rate cut since 1992 has helped shares in Australia reverse an earlier decline to rise 1.7pc. The move drove banks, property companies and miners higher on the benchmark ASX, which had fallen to a three-year low. The MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan index rose 1.4pc, also climbing from a three-year low. The move higher excluded Japan, where the central bank kept its main rate unchanged at 0.5pc. In Japan, the Nikkei index fell 2.1pc to a five-year low as investors sold shares in favour of less risky assets. Concern the slowing world economy will hurt exports of Japanese goods weighed on manufacturers like Canon, which fell 2.7pc to 3,580. Markets in Hong Kong were closed for a holiday. Shares in the US dropped for the fourth day in a row yesterday, as fears of a global recession increased, despite efforts by governments around the world to stem bank losses and retore confidence between lenders. The Dow Jones fell below 10,000 points for the first time in four years on Monday, and in Europe, the Stoxx 600 had its biggest one-day decline since 1987. 
