NAIROBI, Oct 8 (Reuters) - Kenya's shilling is seen holding steady against the U.S. dollar in the week to Wednesday, dealers said, while Tanzania and Uganda's units are expected to weaken.KENYAThe Kenyan shilling  is seen trading in a tight range versus the greenback in the coming days.At 0740 GMT, leading commercial banks were posting the local currency at 74.30/40 against the dollar, down from last Tuesday's closing price of 73.15/25. Kenyan markets were closed last Wednesday for a Muslim holiday.Dealers said they expected the shilling to trade at 73.50-74.80 against the U.S. currency in the week ahead. 'I think it's a pattern that the shilling has shown in the past month and the market is following that,' said Anthony Kirui, head of market making at Barclays Bank. 'The local unit has been under pressure and the fundamentals are continuing to weigh on it.' He said he did not see the shilling falling to 75.00. 'There is a lot of talk of 75.00 ... but for now that move is not supported by significant importer demand,' Kirui said. One dealer at Equity Bank said the local unit will probably stay in a range, with the likelihood of a fall. 'We will be range-bound, with a bias for a weaker shilling,' he said. TANZANIATanzania's shilling  is expected to weaken further against the dollar in the coming week, and traders said its losses would depend on how long global market volatility lasts.Banks posted the local unit at 1,201/1,206 to the dollar, down from last Tuesday's close of 1,156/1,161. Tanzanian markets were closed on Wednesday and Thursday for a Muslim holiday.Dealers would not give a specific range they expected the local unit to trade in over the coming days. 'Unless the world markets cool a bit, we will continue to see this (weakening of the shilling). There has been a lot of offshore activity. The jump has been in the last two days,' said Samwel Marco, a dealer at Stanbic Bank.Dealers said they expected the shilling to regain some of its strength once offshore buyers are satisfied, but they did not expect it to bounce back to around 1,150.It last traded at current levels in May, when it closed at the 1,200 level on May 20 and at 1,203 the day before.Dealers said they had seen little demand for the U.S. currency from local clients, who are accustomed to buying at the 1,150-1,190 levels.UGANDAThe Ugandan shilling  was also expected to fall in the coming week driven by dollar demand from foreign investors.Leading commercial banks posted the local unit at 1,730/1,740 versus the greenback, down from last Wednesday's closing price of 1,670/1,675. 'The shilling has taken a beating based on what's happening in the world markets,' said Denis Mushabe Mashanyu, a dealer at Standard Chartered Bank.Global markets have tumbled in recent weeks and wariness among investors has seen funds pulled from emerging markets in favour of more secure options.Dealers said they expected the shilling to remain weak in the coming days as offshore investors continued to buy dollars. 'Risk aversion should continue,' said one trader. (Reporting by Duncan Miriri in Nairobi, Jack Kimball in Kampala and George Obulutsa in Dar es Salaam) 
