and shares you really should have avoided. Heres a roundup of the good, bad and ugly of the stock market so far in 2008.The big R word is upon us. With reports out today that last quarter the economy shrank for the first time in 16 years, the UK is on the brink of a recession.In terms of the markets, it's a similar story. Earlier this month, the FTSE 100 lost 20% in just five days, proving a bear market can materialise within the space of a week.And, just this morning the index was down to its lowest levels since April 2003, falling from 6456.90 on January 1 to below the 3,800 mark this morning. This means that the FTSE 100 has lost 40% of its value since the start of the year.So, it's a little premature, but we thought wed bring you the best and worst of this years market movers -- so farThe FTSE 350 has lost 41% since the start of the year. Here are this years biggest risers and fallers, as at 9.45am Friday morning.Enodis (LSE: ENO)British Energy (LSE: BGY)Jardine Lloyd Thompson (LSE: JLT)Benfield Group (LSE: BFD)Axon Group (LSE: AXO)Taylor Nelson (LSE: TNS)Astrazeneca (LSE: AZN)BH Macro (LSE: BHME)WHSmith (LSE: SMWH)BH Global (LSE: BHGE)Taylor Wimpey (LSE: TW.)Mecom Group (LSE: MEC)Aricom (LSE: ORE)HBOS (LSE: HBOS)Johnston Press (LSE: JPR)Barratt Developments (LSE: BDEV)Trinity Mirror (LSE: TNI)Premier Foods (LSE: PFD)Cattles (LSE: CTT)Yell Group (LSE: YELL)Credit Crunch WinnersThis years winner by far is kitchen equipment maker Enodis (LSE: ENO), which has seen its share price more than double since the start of the year.The rise can be attributed to a bidding war in July which saw two companies, Manitowoc and Illinois Toolworks stage an overnight share shoot-out for the company that makes fryers for McDonalds.Manitowoc was eventually declared the winner, with healthy profits in the company also contributing to its 103.75% rise this year.It seems takeover deals have provided the silver lining to the doom and gloom of this year. British Energy (LSE: BGY) has proven the other winner of 2008, and was taken over by French company EDF in September. Shares are up 33%.Astrazeneca (LSE: AZN) has also seen good fortune amid the decline. A traditional safe haven for investors, shares are up 9.3% this year. Fellow drugs giant GlaxoSmithKline (LSE: GSK) has lost 10.8% this year. This week it reported third quarter profits of 1.88 billion, ahead of expectations.Broken banks and battered buildersWhen it comes to the bottom, there are no surprises.As the housing market maintains its decline, share prices of house builders have crumbled even further. Taylor Wimpey (LSE: TW) has been the hardest hit, losing 95% of its value since the beginning of 2008.Barratt Developments (LSE: BDEV) is not too far behind, and has had 89% demolished off its share price, while fellow builder Persimmon (LSE: PSN) has subsided 73%, and property search website Rightmove (LSE: RMV), which today announced that it was to cut 20% of jobs to cope with the housing market slump, has fallen 58% since the start of the year.Banks too have borne most of the brunt of the economic downturn. Despite the governments move to prop them up with billions of taxpayers cash, shares have slumped dramatically over the year.HBOS (LSE: HBOS) is undoubtedly the biggest loser, and has shed 91% of its value over the past year. Concern over Britains biggest mortgage lender has led to speculation that its merger with white knight Lloyds TSB may not go through.Under the terms of the initial deal, HBOS shareholders were offered 0.83 Lloyds TSB shares for every HBOS share they own. This valued HBOS at 12.2bn, or 232 pence per share.However, shares in the bank stood at 65p this morning, and at 12.20pm this afternoon, were trading at 59p.Elsewhere in the finance sector, Royal Bank of Scotland (LSE: RBS) has deposited an 83% loss, Lloyds TSB (LSE: LLOY) has fallen 65%, while Barclays (LSE: BARC) has shed 60% since the start of the year.In fact, the only banking business which has managed to cut its losses is HSBC (LSE: HSBA), which has lost a comparatively low 13.7% this year. The most highly capitalised bank in the UK said earlier this month that it did not need direct funding from the government to see it through the credit crunch.Commodity crashesOil and commodity stocks, which at one point were propping up the rest of the market, have also stood on a slippery slope this year.Kazakhstani copper miner Kazakhmys (LSE: KAZ) has been the hardest hit, falling 84% as Borat and co. continue to suffer jitters over the stability of their banks.Fellow miners tell a similar story. Fellow copper specialist Antofagasta (LSE: ANTO) has slumped 63%, while Xstrata (LSE: XTA) has shed 78%, Rio Tinto (LSE: RIO) has lost 60% and BHP Billiton (LSE: BLT) has fallen 48%.As well as commodity prices, the cost of oil has also tumbled dramatically over the past few months from a high of around $150 to just $70 per barrel.In an attempt to shore up sagging prices, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) announced on Friday it was to slash oil production by 1.5 million barrels a day.But for now, share prices remain uncertain. Royal Dutch Shell A (LSE: RDSA) and B (LSE: RDSB) shares have fallen 30.7% and 32% respectively, while Tullow Oil (LSE: TLW) is down 29.2% and BP (LSE: BP.) has fallen 28.5%, though relatively speaking, oil shares have fallen less than the rest of the market.A retail ray of light?Defying the general downturn in retail sales, WHSmith (LSE: SMWH) has also remained robust this year, mostly thanks to its better-than-expected annual profits, which has led to a 20% rise in its dividend.Growth may be modest, with shares only up 2.6%, but when you compare it to the 76% slump of DSG International (LSE: DSGI), Nexts (LSE: NXT) loss of 46%, and Sainsburys (LSE: SBRY) dip of 41%, WHSmith has fared pretty well. Chavtastic brand Burberry (LSE: BRBY) has also failed to buck the trend, with shares slumping 56.6%.In addition, the share price of Marks and Spencer (LSE: MKS) now stands at 210p. The retailer, which turned down a 400p a share bid from Sir Philip Green four years ago, is down 62% this year.During a market downturn, defensive stocks, which traditionally include food, pharmaceuticals, tobacco, oil and utilities are generally thought to prove more resilient as they are deemed essentials of everyday life.Of course, during stormy times such as these, there are likely to be few winners. However, it pays to keep a close watch on the markets. It may seem like a bit of a gamble at the moment, but get it right, and the long-term returns could be handsome.More: Four Of Our Dividends Are Missing / Seven Reasons To Be Pessimistic&gt; We think the simplest way to invest in the stock market for the long-term is via an index tracker fund. Find out more here.
