LONDON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Britain's top share index gained 0.7 percent early on Thursday as the U.S. senate approval of a $700 billion bank bailout plan slightly calmed investor nerves about the health of the UK's struggling financial sector. However, investors remained cautious as doubts about whether Congress will pass the bill and anxiety about the health of the banking sector and the wider global economy led Asian stocks lower and Japan's Nikkei average to its lowest close in three years. By 0743 GMT, the FTSE 100 was up 38.2 points at 4,997.8, having gained 1.2 percent on Wednesday. However the index is still down 22.6 percent on the year. 'It's so far so good (for the bailout plan) but the next stage is the House of Representatives where it fell last time,' said Richard Hunter, head of UK equities at Hargreaves Lansdown. 'Until the outcome of the next vote, investors will be watching what happens in the U.S. and other things like the health of the UK economy and interest rates will be left to one side.' Banks were a little higher with Barclays up 2.9 percent, Royal Bank of Scotland gaining 2.2 percent and Lloyds TSB adding 4.1 percent. Investors were awaiting a decision from the European Central Bank on interest rates at 1145 GMT with banking problems in the euro zone putting pressure on the bank to cut interest rates. France and Germany were at loggerheads on Wednesday over the idea of a U.S.-style financial rescue fund for Europe as EU governments went their separate ways in response to the global credit crisis. Underlining the precarious state of the economy, UK house prices fell 1.7 percent in September to post their biggest annual drop since comparable records began in 1991, the Nationwide building society said. FTSE 250 listed housebuilders fared relatively well, however, clawing back some of the hefty losses of recent months. Taylor Wimpey was up 4.9 percent, Persimmon added 3.5 percent and Barratt Developments gained 6.2 percent. Energy stocks were the top weighted gainer in the blue-chip index, shrugging off a near 2 percent fall in crude oil prices added 0.25 percent. Miners gained despite weakness in some metals prices, though they did benefit from stronger gold prices. Anglo American was up 0.5 percent, BHP Billiton added 2.4 percent and Eurasian Natural Resources added 3.4 percent. Rio Tinto added 1.1 percent after Chief Executive Tom Albanese said the miner expected to see a recovery in spot iron ore prices before the end of this year. Marks &amp;amp; Spencer rose 7.5 percent after the high street retailer reported second-quarter sales broadly in line with expectations. 'With the worst Christmas for at least 30 years coming up for non-food retailers, we wouldn't get carried away, but the shares have fallen far enough in the short-term and M&amp;amp;S is off the hook for the time being,' said Pali International's Nick Bubb. (Editing by Paul Bolding) Keywords: MARKETS BRITAIN STOCKStf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.comjlw   Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.   
