ReutersUnited States -  * Oil rallies above $98 a barrel after slide* Bank rescues spread in Europe; European shares rise* $700 billion bailout rejected, Bush to speak(Adds details, updates prices)By Alex LawlerLONDON, Sept 30 (Reuters) - Oil rose more than $2 a barrel towards $98 on Tuesday, rebounding after a near 10 percent drop in the previous session, as fears of a major meltdown in financial markets eased.European stocks firmed on Tuesday, suggesting some belief that markets fell too far in Monday's selloff in response to the rejection by U.S. lawmakers of a $700 billion financial sector rescue plan.'We've been moving in tandem with how the equity markets have performed,' said Rob Laughlin of MF Global. 'In terms of the rally today, I think things were overdone last night across many markets, including energy.''I'm not suggesting the panic is over but I am suggesting the scare tactics in some quarters have proven to be rather overdone.'U.S. crude was up $2.31 at $98.68 a barrel by 1210 GMT, after losing $10.52 on Monday to $96.37 -- the second biggest fall since April 23, 2003. London Brent crude rose $2.60 to $96.58.Concern over the financial sector continued, nonetheless, with Belgian-French financial services group Dexia getting a 6.4 billion euro ($9.18 billion) capital boost from public shareholders.Ireland offered to guarantee all bank deposits for two years to improve banks' access to funds on international markets, helping sentiment in the equity market.On Monday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 228 to 205 against a bailout plan that would have allowed the Treasury to buy up toxic assets from banks. The shock rejection of the plan sent stock markets sliding.U.S. President George W. Bush will make a statement on Tuesday at 1245 GMT about efforts for an economic rescue package.Oil has fallen sharply from a record high of $147.27 reached in July on signs that high energy prices and the financial crisis have cut into crude demand in the United States and other industrialised nations.In addition, oil has also been dragged down as investors, who had rushed into commodities earlier this year as a hedge against inflation and the weak dollar, sold crude for safer havens.Analysts said the spread of credit problems to Europe was also stoking fears that the financial turmoil, which started with risky lending to the overheated U.S. property market, had gone rapidly global.'Slower international economic growth is bound to dent oil demand,' said David Moore, a commodities analyst at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (Reporting by Maryelle Demongeot in Singapore, Fayen Wong in Perth and Alex Lawler in London; editing by Anthony Barker)Copyright 2008 Reuters, Click for RestrictionArticle ControlsE-Mail  E-Mail Newslettersdel.icio.us   Digg It!       Share    RSS'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsRelated Business TopicsStarting A Small BusinessSmall Business LoansTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubBook ReviewBook ReviewKrystle M. DavisYes, waiters will sometimes spit in your food.
