The Australian dollar ended the local session more than seven per cent higher as a surge in investor confidence on equity markets boosted the domestic currency.A US Federal Reserve announcement that it had agreed to currency swap arrangements with Asian and South American central banks lifted high-yielding currencies.At 1700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6859/64, up from Wednesday's close of $US0.6406/13.During the day, the local currency traded between a morning low of $US0.6626 and an afternoon high of $US0.6888.Commonwealth Bank currency strategist Joseph Capurso said rises on equity markets and US Federal Reserve moves to improve liquidity helped lift demand for high-yielding currencies such as the Australian dollar.Local equity markets ended the day positively for the second straight day, with the All Ordinaries index closing 3.98 per cent higher while the S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 ended up 4.04 per cent.Asian bourses advanced, with the Japanese Nikkei index up 9.7 per cent by 1715 AEDT.The KOPSI share index of South Korea, Australia's third largest export destination, gained 11.95 per cent. 'It mainly reflects the increased risk appetite following those big surges in stock markets we have seen over the past few days,' Mr Capurso said. 'In particular, the Nikkei today had another massive day.' The US Federal Reserve announced separate $US30 billion ($A43.80 billion) swap currency arrangements with the central banks of Brazil, Mexico, Singapore and South Korea.These swap arrangements would reduce the scramble for US dollars, Mr Capurso said. 'It has been a really big problem with banks in particular,' he said. On Wednesday night, the US Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) cut its key federal funds rate by half a percentage point to one per cent in a bid to stimulate the ailing American economy.It was last this low in June 2004. The US Fed rate has fallen 4.25 percentage points in the past 13 months.Mr Capurso said the market had priced in the 50 basis point cut. 'The money market was not moved too much by it,' he said. ON Thursday night, US gross domestic product (GDP) data for the September quarter is due for release.Markets are forecasting the American economy to have shrunk 0.5 per cent, after growing 2.8 per cent in the June quarter. 'Believe it or not, that is going to be the first fall in GDP in this economic cycle,' Mr Capurso said. 'Even though people are talking recession in the US.' Mr Capurso said the risks were to the downside and people would be worried about the fallout from the credit crunch. 'That is typically bad news for the Aussie dollar,' he said. 'It tends to get sold against the US dollar and on the cross rates.' At 1600 AEDT, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index (TWI) was at 55.7, up from Wednesday's close of 52.8.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
