(RTTNews) - The South Korean stock market posted just a slight gain on Tuesday, but that was enough to halt the losing streak that had reached six sessions and cost it more than 140 points or nearly 10 percent in the process. But the KOSPI is tipped for another sharp decline at the opening on Wednesday, possibly testing support at 1,300 points.The global forecast points to another sharply lower opening for the Asian markets, although the modest rebound experienced later in the session by some of the bourses on Tuesday may not materialize this time around. A grim economic outlook from the Fed chairman sent the U.S. markets into another tailspin, while uninspired corporate earnings from the financial sector added to the sharply negative sentiment.The KOSPI finished modestly higher on Tuesday after a sharply lower opening of more than 2 percent, but it recovered on positive sentiment after the Reserve Bank of Australia slashed interest rates by 100 basis points in the middle of the day. Technology stocks led the rebound, while construction and steel issues also saw a positive bounce.For the day, the index added 7.35 points or 0.54 percent to close at 1,366.10 after trading between 1,321.81 and 1,371.24. Volume was 343 million shares worth 4.65 trillion won. There were 526 decliners and 281 gainers.Among the gainers, Samsung Electronics gained 2.7 percent, while LG Electronics climbed 3.9 percent, Hyundai Motor rose 2.4 percent, Daewoo Engineering &amp;amp; Construction soared 5.7 percent and POSCO rose 0.9 percent. Bucking the trend, Shinsegae shed 0.6 percent and Hyundai Department Store slumped 5.6 percent.The news from Wall Street continues to be bad as stocks turned in another dismal performance on Tuesday amid lingering concerns about the health of the economy, adding to the steep losses posted in the previous session. While the Federal Reserve announced a measure to buy up massive amounts of commercial paper, investors remained skeptical that it would help inject liquidity into the markets.Stocks saw initial strength after the Federal Reserve said that it would step into the commercial paper market in order to provide enough liquidity to help corporations properly manage their working capital, announcing the creation of a Commercial Paper Funding Facility. The facility will purchase three-month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper directly from eligible issuers, providing what it calls a 'liquidity backstop.' Following the $700-billion financial relief plan aimed at easing pressure on financial institutions that Congress passed last week, the Commercial Paper Funding Facility will impact a wider variety of companies.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke also hinted Tuesday that the central bank might look to cut interest rates in the near future, a move that many experts have been pushing for in recent days to help protect the overall economy from the turmoil in the financial markets. In remarks to a business economics association, the Fed chief highlighted recent evidence that shows a growing threat of a further downturn in the economy and noted an improvement in the inflation outlook lately.In other news, Bank of America (BAC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) reported a 68 percent decline in its quarterly profit and slashed its dividend, sending financials lower. Later in the day, a rumor that Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ was pulling out of a deal to acquire a stake in Morgan Stanley (MS   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) added to the decline. While Morgan Stanly refuted the rumor and said that the deal would close on time, the stock still ended the session down 24.9 percent.The major averages saw additional selling pressure in late day trading, ending the day at or near their worst intraday levels. The Dow and the S&amp;amp;P 500 set five-year closing lows, while the Nasdaq set a four-year closing low. The Dow closed down 508.39 points or 5.1 percent at 9,447.11, the Nasdaq closed down 108.08 points or 5.8 percent at 1,754.88 and the S&amp;amp;P 500 closed down 60.66 points or 5.7 percent at 996.23.In economic news, South Korea will on Wednesday provide August data for money supply and September numbers for retail sales, producer prices and household debt. Money supply is expected to increase 12.5 percent on year, easing from the 13.2 percent annual expansion in the previous month. Retail sales are seen higher by an annual 10.2 percent, down from the 12.3 percent on-year increase a month earlier. PPI is called higher by 11.4 percent on year, down from the 12.3 percent annual increase a month earlier. Household debt was at 381.4 trillion won in August.In corporate news, South Korea's top department store chain, Lotte Shopping Co. will buy a 75 percent stake in a discount store chain in Indonesia for 294 billion won, the company said on Tuesday. Lotte will acquire 4.7 million shares in PT Makro Indonesia, with Singapore affiliate Lotte Shopping Holdings PTE to purchase the remaining 25 percent after receiving approval from the Indonesian government, it said in a regulatory filing.For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights ReservedMore News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
