Fed, Central Banks Slash RatesThe Fed, European Central Bank and their counterparts in the U.K., Canada, Sweden and Switzerland all cut their key rates by 50 basis points in an unprecedented joint action. They said in a statement that the 'intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth.' China and Hong Kong also cut rates; Australia eased on Tue. MoreStocks End Volatile Day LowerIn a wild session, stocks rallied in the afternoon until a sharp slide in the final minutes extended the losing streak to 6 days. The Dow fell 2%, the NYSE composite 1.3%, the S&amp;amp;P 500 1.1% and the Nasdaq 0.8%. Volume rose. Financial and energy groups were among the worst. Beaten-up industries such as metal ores and fertilizers climbed the most. MoreU.K. To Buy Stakes In Big BanksThe British gov't will inject 50 bil pounds ($87.5 bil) to recapitalize big U.K. banks in return for ownership stakes. It'll also guarantee about $440 bil in bank debt and boost the Bank of England's liquidity efforts by $352 bil. A cash injection plan had been expected. The FTSE 100 fell 5.2%. U.S. shares of Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland rose modestly after diving Tue. MoreTreasuries Sink On New SupplyThe 10-year T-note fell 1-1/4 points, lifting the yield 17 basis points to 3.66%. The Treasury sold $66 bil in various maturities to raise funds for various rescue efforts. Libor bank-to-bank lending rates shot up  but they were fixed before the global coordinated rate cuts. Credit default swaps eased modestly.Wal-Mart OK, Dept. Stores NotWal-Mart's (WMT) Sept. same-store sales rose 2.4% vs. a year before as shoppers sought low prices for staple goods. That met estimates. Wholesale clubs Costco (COST) and BJ's (BJ) reported solid gains, though a little less than views. Target (TGT) and dept. stores like J.C. Penney (JCP) and Nordstrom (JWN) suffered sharp same-store sales declines that missed views. Teen chain Aeropostale (ARO) did OK. MoreIBM's Q3 EPS Tops; Sales MissThe tech giant's shares rose 4% late following its release of preliminary results after hours. IBM (IBM) said EPS rose 22% to $2.05, beating views by 3 cents. Sales grew 5% to $25.3 bil, below views. Most of the revenue gain came from currency benefits. IBM, which backed its '08 EPS outlook, pre-announced to reassure investors after shares fell 23% in the last 6 days. MoreIceland Draws U.K. Ire In CrisisThe nation's financial crisis worsened as it scrapped plans to nationalize a major bank, instead placing it into receivership, and gave up attempts to put a floor under its falling currency by pegging it to the euro. Further heightening tensions, Britain said it planned to sue over lost deposits held by 300,000 citizens with Icelandic accounts.Japanese Stocks Tumble 9.4%The benchmark Nikkei index suffered its worst loss since '87, falling to a 5-year low as selling whipped around the globe. Tokyo's huge fall came after the Dow fell more than 5%. A media report warning of weak Toyota (TM) profits also fanned selling. A surging yen placed more pressure on the export-led economy.Pending Home Sales Jump 7.4%Aug.'s gauge of existing-home sales contracts signed surged to 93.4, the best since June '07. The 8.9% yearly gain was the first in 3 years. Western sales skyrocketed as banks dumped foreclosed homes at cheap prices. But signed contracts could still fail over financing before closing. And recent credit and economic woes could hurt home sales going forward.France Looks To Take Over BanksPM Francois Fillon proposed letting his gov't seize ailing banks, but declined to back deposits as Ireland and other EU nations have done. After int'l central banks cut rates, French Pres. Nicolas Sarkozy, now EU president, said more 'coordinated' global actions were planned. Italy OK'd a bank bailout modeled after Britain's.Copyright 2000-2008 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. Investor's Business Daily, Inc. 2000-2008. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction or redistribution is prohibited without prior authorized permission from Investor's Business Daily. For information on reprints, webprints, permissions or back issue orders, go to www.investors.com/terms/reprints.asp.
