A barrel of oil has not been this cheap in eight months, suggesting that the climate in which oil soared to unheard of levels is coming to an abrupt end.Crude's stunning fall comes just three months after prices hit nearly $150 per barrel. Investors appear to have little faith that the $700 billion U.S. rescue plan will provide a quick fix for the stumbling U.S. economy.Light, sweet crude for November delivery fell $6.07, or 6.4 percent, to settle at $87.81 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was crude's fourth straight negative session and its lowest settlement since Feb. 6.Oil prices have tumbled 40 percent since peaking at $147.27 per barrel on July 11. A drop below $85 per barrel - an almost certainty in the current environment - would leave prices where they were in late October, wiping out all of the past year's big gains. 'The market is finally acknowledging that this credit crisis is a global phenomenon and that will equate to lower world oil demand in the future,' said Phil Flynn, analyst at Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago. 'People thought the crisis would be contained to the U.S. and we'd see oil demand in China and India continue to grow. Now, that just doesn't seem possible.' The widening scope of the crisis has forced consumers and businesses everywhere to cut back on fuel consumption. In India, domestic oil product sales totaled 2.41 million barrels per day in August, the lowest level this year, while Japan's oil demand fell by 8.4 percent in the same month, according to Barclays Capital research.In the United States, the drop in crude prices continued to drag down pump prices. A gallon of regular dropped 2 cents to a national average of $3.504, according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express. Prices peaked at $4.114 on July 17.If crude prices continue their slide, gasoline could fall back below $3 per gallon as early as next month, said Tom Kloza, publisher and chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service in Wall, N.J. But consumers may not feel much relief given the whirlwind battering the economy. 'I don't think you can get excited when the reason for lower prices is recession,' Kloza said. 'After people look at their 401(k) statements, $3 gas isn't going to look that great.' Oil market traders are now watching to see if oil prices will sink to the next key technical level of $85 per barrel, the price for a barrel of crude when it began its historic run-up late last year. ' If that happens, analysts say the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries may to cut production to keep prices from falling further.On Saturday, Iranian Oil Minister Gholam Hossien Nozari called on fellow OPEC members not to pump too much oil.But the repercussions of a production cut could be severe. Reducing output could send oil prices higher, increasing financial strain just as the global economy is contracting. 'If we have a global slowdown and OPEC cuts production, it would make things worse,' Flynn said. This article appeared on page D - 3 of the 
