NEW YORK - Oil prices fell below $US98 a barrel Wednesday as a surprise buildup in U.S. gasoline supplies and a bigger-than-expected jump in crude stocks offered more evidence that a rough economy is forcing Americans to drive less.Light, sweet crude for November delivery fell $2.88 to US$97.76 a barrel in midday trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after earlier falling as low as $95.95.Crude prices have traded erratically in recent days as investors wait to see if lawmakers will approve a $700 billion U.S. financial bailout plan. On Tuesday, prices rose $4.27 to settle at $100.64 a barrel, recovering from a $10.52 drop the previous day - the second largest one-day dollar decline ever. Wednesday's losses were tied to data showing more robust U.S. fuel supplies. The Energy Department's Energy Information Administration said in its weekly report that crude stocks rose by 4.3 million barrels, or 1.5 per cent, to 294.5 million barrels for the week ending Sept. 26. Analysts had expected stocks to rise or fall of 1.5 million barrels, according to a survey by energy research firm Platts.At the same time, gasoline inventories rose by 900,000 barrels, or 0.5 per cent, to 179.6 million barrels. Analysts expected stockpiles of the motor fuel to fall in the range of one million to three million barrels.Jim Ritterbusch, president of energy consultancy Ritterbusch and Associates in Galena, Ill., said the supply increases show that Gulf Coast energy infrastructure is steadily ramping up operations after shutdowns caused by hurricanes Ike and Gustav - but also that U.S. consumers and businesses aren't in a position to resume their old fuel-guzzling habits. 'It reinforces the weak demand argument that's been weighing on the markets,' Ritterbusch said. 'At the same time, we're seeing very strong recovery in production of both crude oil and products in the aftermath of the hurricanes.' Senate leaders scheduled a vote for Wednesday on a version of the emergency rescue bill that adds substantial tax cuts meant to appeal to Republicans when it reaches the House of Representatives. The House rejected a similar plan Monday by a vote of 228-205.But traders were skeptical a bailout of bad mortgage debt would quickly reverse slowing global economic growth and weakening demand for crude. 'It would be good news to avoid further turmoil, but it's too early to assume a new package would lead to a recovery in the U.S.,' said Tetsu Emori, commodity markets fund manager at ASTMAZ Futures Co. in Tokyo.A slump in energy demand has accelerated in Asia. In India, domestic oil product sales totaled 2.41 million barrels per day in August, the lowest level this year, according to Barclays Capital research. In the same month, Japan's oil demand fell by 8.4 per cent.U.S. energy demand also continues to wane, according to the weekly EIA report. Demand for gasoline over the four weeks ended Sept. 26 was 4.5 per cent lower than a year earlier, averaging more nearly 8.9 million barrels a day. 
