The US Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of England and central banks in China, Sweden, Switzerland and Canada all joined the new interest rate offensive, cutting rates by half a percentage point. They moved a day after the Reserve Bank of Australia cut its cash rate by a percentage point to 6.0 per cent. Share prices collapsed across Asia yesterday, starting in Tokyo and sweeping through the Australian market, pushing it to a three-year low. The Australian dollar, which had been trading around US71c, crashed as European markets opened, falling to a five-year low below US65c -- down from its July peak of US98c. An attempt by British Chancellor Alistair Darling to calm his market with a pound stg. 50 billion ($121 billion) rescue package was swept aside. After a week of volatility, the British Government stepped in with the package before markets opened. But within minutes, nervous investors gave the bailout the thumbs down and sent London's FTSE 100 index down 5 per cent. By mid-morning the main European markets had stabilised between 3 and 4 per cent lower. The FTSE posted a gain of about 1 per cent. Futures traders were expecting Wall Street to open higher. The British banking package will make funds available to the top eight banks there -- including such notables as Barclays, Lloyds TSB, HBOS and Royal Bank of Scotland -- with the government receiving preference shares in return for cash. The Bank of England will also make a further pound stg. 200 billion ($485 billion) available for short-term borrowings by banks. Ahead of the London announcement, the Japanese Nikkei fell more than 9 per cent. The new bout of selling yesterday was sparked by the International Monetary Fund increasing its forecast overall losses from the credit crisis to $US1.4 trillion. After a brief respite on Tuesday following the slashing of interest rates, investors were consumed by a barrage of negative news from the European and Japanese financial sectors, pushing the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 index down 5 per cent to 4388 points. But Macquarie Bank interest rate strategist Rory Robertson said the reaction from the European Central Bank and Bank of England had been pedestrian, and more was needed. 
