Oil prices were volatile Tuesday after plummeting overnight as investors weighed the fallout from U.S. lawmakers' rejection of a proposed US$700 billion bank bailout aimed at stabilizing the teetering U.S. economy.By midday in Europe, light, sweet crude for November delivery was up US$1.14 to US$97.51 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.Earlier in the session, the contract fell as low as US$93.36 before rebounding to highs near US$98. On Monday, Nymex oil plunged US$10.52 to settle at US$96.37 amid worries that the financial crisis would drag on global growth and demand for oil. That was the second-largest drop in dollar terms and the biggest percentage-wise since 2001.In London, November Brent crude was up US$1.50 to US$95.48 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.In the last seven drays, crude has now fallen almost US$25, or 20 per cent. 'Yesterday's reaction was justified. There's a lot of anxiety in the market,' said Mark Pervan, senior commodity strategist with ANZ Bank in Melbourne. 'I think the market will now likely take a wait-and-see approach until a new emergency package emerges.' Investors were stunned by the U.S. House of Representatives' rejection Monday of the bank bailout plan. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrials plunged 777 points, the most ever for a single day. Officials scrambled to structure a new bailout proposal that would attract reluctant lawmakers and still soothe the unnerved financial markets. 'The general trend remains very negative,' Pervan said. 'Even with a new package, conditions remain weak for commodities.' Pervan said oil futures will likely fall to US$80 a barrel over the next six months and may reach as low as US$60.Falling global demand for oil also was keeping downward pressure on prices. 'Data from Japan is showing oil demand in August down 11.8 per cent from a year ago,' said Olivier Jakob of Petromatrix in Switzerland, adding that the International Energy Agency, the Paris-based energy watchdog, would have to make 'drastic revisions' to its oil demand figure. 
