Asian stocks kicked off the fourth quarter an upbeat note Wednesday, although gains were relatively shallow compared to the overnight rally on Wall Street, with investors in Japan taking a cautious stance after a business sentiment survey found the mood among large companies turned negative for the first time in five years. Markets in Australia and New Zealand were among the leaders with gains fluctuating 2% to 3%,.while South Korea's benchmark index slipped into negative territory and Taiwanese stocks posted modest gains. Markets in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Pakistan were closed for public holidays. U.S. stock indexes surged Tuesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average marking its third-biggest point gain, on expectations the stalled financial sector rescue plan could be brought back to life. The Senate will vote on a revised $700 billion rescue plan Wednesday evening. Japan's Nikkei 225 ended the morning session 1.3% higher at 11,399.60, while Australia's S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 was up 2.7% to 4,722.30 and South Korea's Kospi index fell 0.8% to 1,436.79. New Zealand's NZSX-50 added 3.4% and Taiwan's Taiex added 1%. Shares of industrial robot maker Fanuc were moderately higher following the release of the Bank of Japan's quarterly tankan survey which showed large manufacturers turned negative for the first time in five years amid concerns a looming global downturn threatens export markets. The mood indicator, which came in at minus 3, was below consensus expectations of minus 2 and the first negative reading since the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Fanuc's shares were up 1%. Banking shares were among lead gainers across the region, pacing what was the best-performing sector among U.S. shares. In Tokyo, shares of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group added 4% while those of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group added 3%. Among Australian lenders, shares of Commonwealth Bank were up 3,9% and National Australia Bank climbed 2%. Japanese shipping stocks were under pressure after the London-based Baltic Exchange sea freight index for global raw materials trade fell for a seventh straight day.Shares of Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd were down 4.3%.Kobe Steel Ltd. saw its shares rally after the company raised its group net profit forecast for the current fiscal year by 10% citing declines in crude oil and metal prices, in addition to continuing strong demand for its high-grade steel produces. Shares of the steel maker ended morning trade 4.4% higher. Nidec Corp. was in focus after the Nikkei newspaper reported the firm would acquire Fuji Electric Holdings industrial motor unit in a deal worth about 10 billion yen. Shares of Fuji Electric fell 6.8% while those of Nidec were indicated as untraded. U.S. shares were up sharply in Tuesday trading, with the Dow (DJI) advancing 485.21 points, while the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index (SPX) climbed 58.34 points and Nasdaq Composite (RIXF) rose 98.6 points. Crude oil futures extended overnight gains above the $100-a barrel mark, with the November contract adding as much as 77 cents to $101.41 a barrel in electronic trading. The dollar was at 105.86 yen, compared to 106.11 yen in late New York Tuesday. 
