The global financial crisis is now spreading across the globe as companies retrench people and drop expansion plans. With equities, commodities, dollar crashing in most parts of the world, and a firm oil prices, only gold is on a bullish note. Demand for several commodities including metals is on the decline in China contributing to lower global demand. The Reserve Bank of Indias quarterly monetary report is quite revealing regarding the impact of slowdown on Indian economy. The only saving grace is that inflation is no longer a major issue and seems to be on a declining mode.GoldGold prices started the year on a bullish note, as weakening dollar and firm oil prices in the beginning of the year led to rally in gold prices. Spot Gold touched a high of $1032 per ounce in March 2008. Yellow metal got support from rising geopolitical tensions, heightened inflation and growing fears of systemic risk in financial sector after US authorities effective bailout of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, pushed gold higher. But prices could not hold on to its gain and touched a low of $735 per ounce in the second prices and recovery in dollar against major currencies.This decline in prices was short lived, and prices posted largest intraday gain in dollar terms in last 28 years after US investment bank Lehman Brothers filed bankruptcy and US largest insurance company AIG was bailed out, raising concern about the US financial woes. Series of bail outs were planned by US government indicated the severity of credit crisis. Amidst such situation, investors flocked to Gold as a safe haven asset.Physical demand coupled with rising investment demand from ETF boosted gold prices. We are amidst global financial crisis and everyone is wary about future outlook of global economy. Current unrest in the financial market underlines the role of gold as a safe haven asset. As long as turmoil in the financial sector continues, the preferences for safe haven asset like Gold will definitely continue. The expected prices range for 2008  2009 is $640 - $980 per ounce.Crude OilCrude Oil prices witnessed boom and bust during last one year period. From the beginning of this year, oil prices rallied strongly on account of strong demand from Asian countries like China, India and Middle East. Weakening USD against major currencies coupled with rising geopolitical tension in countries like Iran and Nigeria supported oil prices. Oil prices touched unprecedented high of $147.27 per barrel in July 2008.Since then we have seen reversal in trend, on the back of rising global financial turmoil and its impact on the real economy. Slowdown in world GDP growth is putting pressure on oil demand. As per latest report of OPEC, world GDP is expected to grow at 3.8% and 3.3% in 2008 and 2009 respectively. US dollar has also gained by more than 12% in last three months, pulling oil prices lower.Slowdown in demand in OECD countries, led by US, has adversely affected energy demand. We expect crude prices to remain under pressure over the next year on account of sagging global demand. Also, the easing tensions in the Middle East have lead to a substantial cool off in prices, but any reversal in this scenario, could lead to a flare up in prices. Last but not the least, the movement in USD against major currencies will play a vital role in deciding crude oil prices as it has been observed, that in times of weakening dollar, investors flock into commodities like gold/crude. The expected price range for the 2008 - 2009 is $60 - $115.RubberRubber prices showed marginal recovery from a low of Rs 85 reached last week. Sharp gains in the benchmark contracts in Tokyo Stock Exchange (TOCOM) also aided recovery. At one time rubber prices rose to Rs 94/kg but was not sustainable. Rubber prices moved to Rs 92/kg on Wednesday as traders were moderately active while sellers stayed back expecting further recovery in prices. Towards weekend the mood was mixed with buyers not keen on fresh quotations at present levels of Rs 90/kg for RSS4. This week did not witness fresh enquiries from the tyre sector, the largest consumer of natural rubber in the country. Market is likely to remain range-bound with a weak bias.Base metalsThe world economy is currently facing the pressure of a recession, one of the weakest situations faced since the 1930s. Financial markets are highly uncertain as global policy makers look at options to revive the sinking situation. Commodity prices were trading higher in the last few months but suddenly took a u-turn as the global economic picture became gloomy. Downside risks have multiplied as huge entities have succumbed to the credit crisis. Base metals have declined as a gloomy macroeconomic environment has raised concerns over demand.Base metals faced heavy selling pressure as global financial crisis has raised concerns over demand in times of overwhelmed supply. A vicious sell-off saw prices hit multi-year lows, compounded by chaos &amp;amp; confusion in the financial markets with the realization that the world is sliding into a long and deep recession. Prospects for global growth and metals demand have become gloomy which has further aided to the downside.Sentiments have taken a u-turn as  copper and aluminum had touched record highs in the last six months and has succumbed to selling pressure. In this phase of recession, we could witness a decline in Western consumption which would lead to lower manufacturing growth in the Asian counterparts as Asia provides humungous exports to the US. This could further mean negative outlook for the base metals sector until a permanent solution is found and this situation is eased.Future developments by miners and producers could go on a halt in times of a frozen credit market. This situation could help the troubled base metals sector if demand slightly picks up. Currently, demand is the issue and what can save base metals from a further decline is a crunch from the supply side.As it is base metal prices are close to their marginal cost of production, leading to a situation where producers find it uneconomical. If prices continue to trade southwards then we could soon get to hear of production cutbacks in order to provide a cushion to the downside. In the past few years we have seen major M&amp;amp;As in the metals sector which has led to fewer metals producers, who are strong. This factor should result in a faster response to falling prices, limiting the downside further.Miners of most metals are announcing cutbacks and this could help to find some support to base metals.
