LONDON (MarketWatch) -- London shares traded modestly lower on Friday morning, with stocks sensitive to consumer spending trends under pressure as investors continued to fret about slowing economic growth ahead of data on U.S. jobs. Shares of airline British Airways (UK:BAY: news, chart, profile) fell 4.8%, shares of pub and restaurant operator Whitbread (UK:WTB: news, chart, profile) were down 5.2% and shares in Next (UK:NXT: news, chart, profile) declined 4.3%. On Thursday, data showed U.S. jobless claims near 500,000 and factory orders recording their steepest fall in two years, highlighting a weaker economic backdrop. More downbeat jobs data is expected on Friday, with the release of U.S. nonfarm payroll data. Employers probably eliminated 110,000 net jobs in September, the steepest loss since early 2003, economists said. Such a decline would represent the nation's ninth consecutive month of job losses, totaling more than 600,000.  Overall, the U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) fell 0.3%, or 12.65 points, to 4,856.43. Other European shares declined, while U.S. stock futures pointed to a slightly higher open across the Atlantic.   Still, banks advanced in London as investors continued to hope that a $700 billion plan to bail out the financial sector will pass in Congress on Friday. Shares of Royal Bank of Scotland (UK:RBS: news, chart, profile) rose 2.4% and shares of Barclays (BCS:BCSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BARC: news, chart, profile) advanced 4.1%. Miners mixed, oil firms down Miners Anglo American (UK:AAL: news, chart, profile) , down 2%, and Kazakhmys (UK:KAZ: news, chart, profile) , down 1.2%, also lost ground. European equity strategists at Credit Suisse said that they would sell into any strength in the mining sector in order to reduce the sector to benchmark. They believe industrial production is set to decelerate, that valuations are about neutral and earnings estimates will fall by between 25% and 30%. They are more positive on oil companies than mining firms, they said, as they believe oil prices will trough at around $85-a-barrel while stocks are pricing in $80-a-barrel oil. 'Unless oil demand in the U.S. and Europe falls more than 7% year-on-year, OPEC's spare capacity remains under 5% for the next 5 years. Hence the oil price has to be above a level that renders oil sands economic, otherwise spare capacity becomes even more acute,' they said. The strategists also noted that oil is historically a defensive sector. 'We favor the safety of big cap oil with high dividend yield,' they said highlighting BP (BP:BPNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BP: news, chart, profile) . BP shares declined 0.1% in London. Light sweet crude prices edged down 46 cents to $93.51 a barrel. Royal Dutch Shell (UK:RDS.A: news, chart, profile) (UK:RDSA: news, chart, profile) shares fell 1% after a report was released saying that it has offered about 600 million pounds, or 300 pence a share, to buy Regal Petroleum (UK:RPT: news, chart, profile) . Regal Petroleum shares shot up 23.5% to 102 pence outside the top index after the report in the Daily Telegraph. Shares in homebuilder Taylor Wimpey (UK:TW: news, chart, profile) fell 4.4%, also outside the top index. It said Friday that it will extend current discussions on financing to include applicable eurobond holders, which will prolong the negotiation process. It is now likely that a revised covenant structure will be concluded early next year before the announcement of the firm's fiscal-year results, the company said. 
