 If you lost your money in the market crash of January  2008, here's the route to your loss, in chronological order. 2001-2005:&amp;nbsp;House prices in the US begin to rise  rapidly. Banks lend aggressively and create a subprime  industry.Sub-prime lending refers to lending (at slightly higher  interest rates) to people who may not be eligible for a loan under normal  circumstances. Maybe they don't have a regular job or income, or have defaulted  in the past.Banks traditionally did not lend to such people due to high  risk of default. But since these loans were mortgaged against property and  property prices were rising continuously, banks started doing so. If customers  defaulted, they good sell the mortgaged property.2005:&amp;nbsp;The booming housing market halted  abruptly in many parts of the US.2006:&amp;nbsp;Prices are flat, home sales  fall.February 2007:&amp;nbsp;Sub-prime industry collapses in the US;  more than 25 sub-prime lenders declare bankruptcy, announce significant losses,  or put themselves up for sale.While they were lending, banks did not  factor in the possibility of a fall in property prices. When the&amp;nbsp;Federal Bank (the US equivalent of RBI) started  increasing interest rates, the sub-prime borrowers started defaulting and banks  started selling off the mortgaged properties. As more and more properties came  into the market for selling, the property prices fell.August  2007:&amp;nbsp;Many leading&amp;nbsp;mortgage lenders in the US filed for  bankruptcyMarch 2008:&amp;nbsp;Bear Sterns falls.September 2008:&amp;nbsp;Lehman Brothers file for bankruptcy.&amp;nbsp;Merrill Lynch sells off to&amp;nbsp;Bank of America.Between 2001 and 2006,  the US financial markets had developed a new product - a bond securitised  against the mortgages.In simple terms it means that the&amp;nbsp;mortgage banks borrowed money against the mortgages on  the condition that they would repay to lenders as soon as they recovered their  mortgages. The lenders in this case were&amp;nbsp;financial institutions (like Bear Sterns, Lehman  and&amp;nbsp;Merrill Lynch) who in turn sold retail bonds to  individuals.Sadly, the repayment never happened. And institutions like  Bear Sterns, Lehman, Merrill Lynch and AIG were the casualties. Since the  mortgages were not honoured, the banks could not repay these&amp;nbsp;financial institutions who in turn could not repay  retail investors.
