For  those of us who had only a nodding acquaintance with Wall Street, news this week  has been bafflingly littered with the big Wall Street names. Lehman Brothers  filed for bankruptcy, the venerable Merrill Lynch was taken over by Bank of  America and AIG, bailed out by the US Fed.So, how has the housing crisis  in the US impacted Wall Street? What were the repercussions on the Indian  markets?The (sub)prime crisisTaking advantage of the housing boom in  the US, mortgage banks disbursed loans to many sub-prime (less credit worthy)  borrowers.To compensate for the risk undertaken, these loans were given  at higher interest rates. To raise more money, banks packaged these loans into  securities and sold them to investment banks.These highly leveraged  positions paid off as long as the housing market continued its upward move, with  rising property prices.When recession set in, borrowers began to  default. The banks seized properties and foreclosures rose. But, by then, the  fall in the housing market was so steep that the foreclosed properties were  difficult to sell.The mortgage banks began to make huge losses on the  outstanding loans and foreclosed assets. In the process, investment bankers who  bought securities based on these loans too were hurt.Bear Stearns flagged it  off...Bear Stearns, the US mortgage giant, was the first of the large  investment institutions to fail on sub prime related issues, after it declared  losses on mortgage lending in March 2008. Unable to sustain operations, the  institution was sold to JP Morgan Chase.Many other small and mid-sized  firms in the US too declared losses on sub-prime mortgages. This triggered a  lowering of interest rates by the US central bank- the Fed- to ease the credit  crunch in the economy.Following the Bear Stearns episode, there were  similar problems at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two other mortgage giants of  the country. This prompted the Fed to infuse $200 billion to shore up these  institutions.Just when the markets thought the worst was over, came the  news of Lehman Brothers' filing for bankruptcy on huge mortgage-related  losses.And even before the market could absorb this shock, came similar  news from Merrill Lynch and AIG (US' largest insurer). The stock markets  plummeted. As the week drew to a close, the US Fed, with other central banks,  assured the markets that the impact of the credit crunch would be  contained.Bailouts have been put together for the troubled banks with  AIG taken over by the Fed and other investment banks in takeover talks with the  stronger firms. The names that you just read are not of some neighbourhood  bankers. All are renowned global bankers which served some of the largest  corporations, governments and high net worth investors worldwide.Also,  several banks of other nations have invested in funds of these  bankers.Impact on the Indian marketFIIs, who are the key source  of liquidity in Indian stock markets, continue to dominate , with sizeable  holdings in many stocks. A weak stock market also makes foreign PE (private  equity) funds hesitant to bring in money. In a scenario where the cost of  borrowing is already high, poor foreign inflows (both FII and FDI) worsen the  funding situation making fund availability tougher for corporates.Given  the size of FII holdings in stocks, bulk selling by foreign institutions has the  potential to severely impact individual stocks as well broader markets. The  Sensex lost 6 per cent off its value on the day the Bear Stearns collapse came  to light.But Lehman had already liquidated a significant part of its  India holdings when its troubles came to light. However what worsened the  initial falls this week were fears that other foreign institutions that run  similar risks may also sell their holdings.Banking stocks were in the limelight,  as they are most vulnerable to the credit crunch. A leading domestic bank that  had exposure to the bonds of the Lehman Brothers faced tough times last week.  Until reports clarifying that the bank expected recovery of the investments made  came in, rumours had triggered huge selling in the stock.The Banking  Index too was in the red until the Finance Minister gave the assurance that the  public sector banks had limited exposure to Lehman's assets and that the Indian  financial sector was well-placed to handle the crisis.Lessons from  LehmanAre there lessons for Indian investors from the events on Wall  Street? Here are a few. If the housing collapse in the US was triggered by  ordinary borrowers being unable to repay loans, interest rates back home too  have been rising. The Indian housing market has been showing signs of slowdown  with property prices correcting in many markets. This should set the alarm bells  ringing for borrowers, as also bankers. As banks become more cautious in  offering credit to individuals, it is time for us to take stock of whether we  have enough of a safety margin on our borrowings, be they home loans, credit  cards or any other kind of credit. Stock market investors obviously should brace  for choppy markets ahead!&amp;nbsp;via  Businessline
