Well it&amp;#8217;s like this, as Gerry Jackson points out so regularly and something which our economic and media punditry have been totally blind to- &amp;#8220;From March 1996 to December 2007 currency rose by 110 per cent, bank deposits by 178 per cent and M1 by 163 per cent.&amp;#8221; (Monetary Aggregates - D3 Reserve Bank). Now if we take the high side of that magical 2-3% inflation target that our Reserve so constantly tells us it is apparently deliberately targetting, that means prices should have risen 38.4% (3% compounding over 11 years) Now look at those money supply figures straight from the horse&amp;#8217;s own mouth. What on earth did the Reserve expect would happen with all that monopoly money eventually? Ditto with the US Fed and so many more central banks around the globe. We might like to recall those negative real interest rates back in 2001 in the US and typically low interest rates around the globe.(Japan for God&amp;#8217;s sake?) Was this the real underlying &amp;#8216;natural rate of interest?&amp;#8217; Not bloody likely folks! Why didn&amp;#8217;t all that money creation go straight into price inflation? Well it would have if you threw it at a young demographic like in the late 60s and early 70s. However, our profligate pinstripe Keynesians overlooked some important structural changes this time round. An aging baby boomer demographic was thinking about the lure of the grey nomad trail at precisely the same time as Asian savers, chastened by an Asian meltdown, decided they didn&amp;#8217;t want to be in that position again. As the West&amp;#8217;s BBers began to invest in shares and RE, Asians worked harder and saved harder (often forcibly due to govt financial and exchange controls). Low interest rates means gear yourself for capital gain and as the ponzi scheme began, more and more of the world&amp;#8217;s glut of funny money poured into the game. Alas, like all Ponzi schemes, eventually the number of new players runs out and the game collapses. Panic selling begins and as asset prices decline, the funny money goes looking for value in real commodities. A rush for commodities and commodity streams and eventually that is overcooked too, signalling the end of the whole box and dice and here we all are. The rapid price rises in commodities recently was everywhere a monetary phenomenon. There is no way 70% steel price rises in the first 6 months of this year was real demand at work, as the collapse in general commodity prices now shows. Certainly demand is dropping as the malinvestments of a decade, due to monetary expansion must now be unwound. This is the inevitable monetary bust and central bankers cannot throw more money at a solvency crisis of their making now. It&amp;#8217;s simply a matter of how you like your unwinding now. Short and terrible (depression) or long and very painful (stagflation) How would you like your nasty medicine now folks? Oh and ask yourself this Fred- How on earth could our Reserve who had lost control of interest rates, drop them any earlier as the market was raising them in response to market risk? It simply had to wait and follow the market down as real investment opportunity collapsed. The only thing stopping interest rates plumetting now is plumetting money supply tracking plumetting demand. Witness my bank Westpac still offering 7.05% at call, interest payable monthly. Didn&amp;#8217;t budge with the Reserve&amp;#8217;s last edict.
