By Kevin Plumberg HONG KONG, Dec 12 (Reuters) - Asian stocks fell on Friday, as the shrinking financial sector, uncertainty over a U.S. carmaker bailout and economic malaise doused the bargain hunting that had helped to drive up shares in the last week. Oil prices slipped for the first time in three days to trade around $47 a barrel after surging on Thursday on calls for 'severe' production cuts by OPEC's president, while the U.S. dollar tried to recover from an overnight rout that knocked it to a seven-week low against the euro. Fund managers and firms meanwhile stuffed their portfolios with ultra-safe securities as 2008 wraps up, keeping yields on short-term U.S. government debt near zero. Dour comments from the chief executive of JPMorgan, a rise in U.S. claims for unemployment benefits to a 26-year high and news Bank of America Corp plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs contributed to a feeling of uneasiness among investors. 'There's growing uncertainty about the U.S. economy, and on top of this, Asian stocks appear to have been bought up perhaps a bit too much,' said Yutaka Miura, senior technical analyst at Shinko Securities in Tokyo. The MSCI index of Asia-Pacific stocks outside Japan slipped 1 percent, having advanced nearly 12 percent in the last week. There is also an element of exhaustion in the market with traders eager to close the books on 2008, throughout which the index has fallen more than 50 percent. Japan's Nikkei share average fell 1.3 percent, snapping four days of rises. Exporters such as Honda Motor Co and Canon Inc were among the heaviest drags on the index after the U.S. dollar's overnight decline pushed up the yen. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index was down about 3 percent, weighed down by HSBC's almost 2 percent fall. The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index for Australian stocks fell 1.5 percent, led by the financial and mining sectors. Australia's top four banks all fell, led by Westpac Banking Corp which shed 2.4 percent. The political drama over the $14 billion package of loans for U.S. automakers, including General Motors Corp and Ford Motor Co, continued. U.S. Republican senators said the talks were hung up and did not know if a bill would be possible soon. Failure of any of the major car manufacturers could send shockwaves through a global supply chain and a web of financing sources and in addition lead to countless job losses. BONDS FIRM In the bond markets, U.S. Treasuries extended gains, after rallying on Thursday on a report showing a spike in jobless claims that suggested weakness in the labour market is accelerating at an alarming rate. Employment is usually a lagging indicator of the broad economy. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, slipped to 2.60 percent, edging back down toward the lowest level in more than 50 years hit earlier this month. Maturities of less than a year traded at barely any yield at all, with the 3-month bill yield at 1.5 basis points. Year-end is usually a time when global investors and corporates pile into the highly liquid short-term U.S. debt market to keep cash safe and dress up balance sheets. However, the ferocity of the global economic slowdown this year has made 2009's prospects particularly grim. U.S. light crude for January 2009 delivery slipped 85 cents to $47.13, but has gained about $7 in the last week. Remarks from OPEC President Chakib Khelil about the need for a big cut in production at next week's OPEC meeting fanned talk that supply may be cut by 1-2 million barrels per day. Many Asian nations that have fuel subsidies recently cut domestic prices to reflect much lower market prices, so the potential supply cut is being watched quite closely. The U.S. dollar fell broadly on Thursday, undermined by the market's improved appetite for taking risk in other currencies again as short term U.S. yields fell closer to zero. 'This put a possibly temporary break to the capital repatriation trend that has recently boosted the U.S. currency when stock markets faired poorly. We think the dollar is likely to recover some ground in the near term,' said Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief investment strategist with CFC Seymour in Hong Kong. The U.S. currency has benefited in recent months from a global deleveraging process that saw investors scrambling to buy the greenback to repay dollar-denominated loans. The European single currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.3318 after hitting a seven-week high of $1.3407 on trading platform EBS on Thursday. The dollar was steady at 91.45 yen from late U.S. trading when it hit a seven-week low of 91.16 yen. (Additional reporting by Elaine Lies in TOKYO; Editing by Dhara Ranasinghe) ((For the state of play of Asian stock markets please click on: )) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL (Reuters Messaging:kevin.plumberg.reuters.com@reuters.net Email: kevin.plumberg@thomsonreuters.com; +852 2843-6370) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
