The Australian dollar has opened higher after an up-and-down weekend session where the fate of the troubled US car industry dominated market direction.  At 7am, the Australian dollar was trading at 66.29 US cents, up from Friday's close of 65.68.  During the weekend offshore session, the local unit traded between a low of 64.92 US cents and a high of 66.41 US cents.  The Australian dollar fell below 65.00 US cents during the early part of Friday night's offshore session, as Asian equity markets all closed lower on news the US Senate had rejected a plan to rescue troubled US automakers General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.  Commonwealth Bank manager of institutional services foreign exchange Tim Kelleher said the US Senate's rejection pushed the Australian dollar lower at the end of Asian trading and at the start of the European trading day.  'It really did come off quite sharply and that carried on into London,' Mr Kelleher said from Auckland.  'The market was quite happy to put a bit of pressure on the Australian dollar initially on the negative news.'  Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index finished Friday's session down 5.56%.  But the local currency recovered during the US trading session, after the US federal government said it would consider using money set aside for the bailout of Wall Street financial firms to rescue troubled US car markers General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.  US equity markets, which were down more than 200 points during the session, rebounded on the news and climbed out of the red to finish higher, supporting a stronger Australian dollar.  'We just followed equities again,' Mr Kelleher said.  While the announcement lifted the Australian dollar back above 66.00 US cents, Mr Kelleher said the unit remained within its broad trading range of the past couple of months.  He said currency markets would remained focused on any further developments regarding the bailout plan during Monday's local session, with the Australian dollar likely to trade between 65.75 US cents and 67.00 US cents.  'I'd say the Aussie dollar on the day will probably struggle to do too much,' Mr Kelleher said.  In terms of local economic data, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) releases lending finance data for October.  
