HONG KONG, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares jumped 5.3 percent on Monday, with Chinese banks and property counters notching up strong gains as talk swirled about further measures to protect growth in the world's fastest-growing economy. 'There is a lot of talk about support measures from China, including buying up more bank shares, a rescue package for the stock market and other steps to boost private consumption,' said Peter Lai, director with DBS Vickers.  At 0320 GMT the benchmark Hang Seng Index .HSI was 736.43 points higher at 14,582.52.  Index heavyweight China Mobile (0941.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) led gains with a 5 percent jump, building on Friday's rally after Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to buy from neutral and raised its target price to HK$90. The stock was at HK$79.35 in late morning trade.  Gains were also supported by lower oil prices and the rescue plan for U.S. automakers, both providing some relief to investors shocked by last week's unemployment numbers which showed half a million job losses in world's largest economy in November. 'The U.S. auto industry rescue has also come as good news for markets in the region but people are still worried about recession, recovery and unemployment,' said Lai. The China Enterprises Index of top locally listed mainland Chinese firms .HSCE had risen 6.1 percent to 7,880.50.  Chinese bank stocks soared on hopes of further support measures after a report in the China Securities Journal said China may cut business tax for banks to offset the pressure on their margins following a series of interest rate cuts this year.  China Construction Bank (0939.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) vaulted 7.3 percent while top lender ICBC (1398.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) added 5.2 percent.  No.5 lender Bank of Communications (3328.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) gained 6.2 percent. 'The tax cut rumour, coupled with the recent purchases by Huijin of shares in the three large banks in the A-share market, should provide some short-term excitement,' said Jasmine Lai, analyst with DBS Vickers on Monday. 'We may upgrade the sector back to neutral from slightly cautious if the rumour proves to be true.' Property counters also climbed on Monday as investors awaited policy announcements from a key meeting of senior government officials in China. China Overseas Land Investment (0688.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) climbed 10.7 percent while Guangzhou R&amp;amp;F Properties (2777.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) soared 13.7 percent.   (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Jonathan Hopfner) 
