TORONTO - The Canadian dollar moved lower after the Bank of Canada cut its main interest rate by three quarters of a point while observing the economy 'is now entering a recession as a result of the weakness in global economic activity.' The currency moved down 0.72 cent to 79.02 cents US as the central bank lowered the key rate to 1.5 per cent and added that 'the outlook for the world economy has deteriorated significantly and the global recession will be broader and deeper than previously anticipated.' The bank's decision came against a background of negative economic data - most recently a loss of 71,000 jobs in November and a 19 per cent one-month drop in housing starts to a seven-year low. Meanwhile, stock markets looked to open lower after racking up solid gains yesterday in the wake of an announcement by U.S. president-elect Barack Obama to increase infrastructure spending to lift the economy. Toronto's S&amp;amp;P/TSX composite index soared 450 points while New York's Dow Jones industrials finished the session almost 300 points higher.  Hopes are high that the American government will reach an agreement to rescue U.S. automakers.  Negotiators worked through the night to come up with a US$15-billion bailout for General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC. A deal might occur as early as tomorrow.  The proposal being worked on reportedly would give the government an ownership stake in the automakers. The market is concerned that a collapse of GM, Chrysler or Ford Motor Co. would trigger massive job losses, and further stymie the government's efforts to lift the U.S. out of a recession.  Meanwhile, The Globe and Mail reports that Chrysler Canada Inc. is warning that it could close its two assembly plants in Canada if the two governments fail to provide US$1.6-billion in emergency aid.  The work at the plants could then be transferred to the U-S, with the total loss of 8,000 direct jobs in the Ontario communities of Windsor and Brampton.  Globally, Sony Corp. said today it is cutting 8,000 jobs over the next two years, or four per cent of its global workforce of 185,000. And Japan's government said the economy shrank at an annualized rate of 1.8 per cent in the July-September quarter, worse than the previously reported 0.4 per cent pace.  Oil prices backed off somewhat amid expectations that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will decide on a big production cut next week in an attempt to stem crude's 70 per cent plunge over the past five months. The January crude contract in New York declined 75 cents at US$42.96 a barrrel. 
