U.S. stock futures are trading well below fair value this morning, indicative of a negative start to the regular session of trading. Selling is rampant across the globe, as Japan's Nikkei Index, the Hong Kong Hang Seng, and the French CAC 40 have all plummeted about 5%, with the rest of Europe and Asia following suit. Wall Street is poised to follow, after plans for a bailout of the auto industry disintegrated in the Senate amid a dispute over union wages. Bank of America (BAC) hasn't helped matters, as the company reported plans for massive layoffs during the next 3 years. Fairchild Semiconductor (FCS) also announced hefty layoffs, while the Department of Justice provided additional news on PNC Financial Services Group's (PNC) buyout of National City (NCC).  Checking in on currencies and commodities, we are red across the board this morning. The U.S. Dollar Index is off 0.30% at 83.57, with the greenback losing ground quickly against the Japanese yen following the collapse of the auto industry bailout. Gold futures are also negative, with the front-month contract dropping $10.80 to trade at $815.90 an ounce in London. Finally, crude oil prices are showing signs of fatigue following strong gains in the past several sessions and trouble in the auto sector. The lead contract has shed 5.94% to trade at $47.87 per barrel in pre-market activity.  Turning to equities, General Motors (GM: sentiment, chart, options) and Ford Motor (F: sentiment, chart, options) are more than 10% lower in pre-market trading, after the bailout hit the skids on Capitol Hill. GM has already hired lawyers and bankers to consider whether it should file for bankruptcy protection, according to The Wall Street Journal. Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank downgraded F to 'sell' following the failed government bailout. 'Although we believe that there is potential for a reprieve from the U.S. administration using TARP, we anticipate an increasingly difficult operating environment that's likely to force leveraged automaker and supplier stocks to near bankruptcy levels,' the brokerage firm stated.  Headlining for the banking sector this morning, Bank of America (BAC: sentiment, chart, options) said it plans to cut 30,000 to 35,000 jobs during the next 3 years. The company said that the layoffs are due to its acquisition of Merrill Lynch and the 'weak' economy, which the bank said is affecting business activity. Bank of America stated that the reductions will be spread across the board at both companies and will affect all lines of business and staff units.  Fairchild Semiconductor (FCS: sentiment, chart, options) is also slashing its payroll, as the company said early this morning that it will cut its worldwide workforce by approximately 1,100 people, or 12%. FCS expects to incur charges of $12 million to $16 million in the current quarter and the first quarter of 2009 due to the layoffs. The company now sees fourth-quarter sales of $320 million, down from a previous range of $338 million to $360 million.  Finally, the Department of Justice (DOJ) said that PNC Financial Services Group (PNC: sentiment, chart, options) and National City (NCC: sentiment, chart, options) agreed to divest 61 National City branches in western Pennsylvania as part of PNC's acquisition of the Midwest banking concern. Assets at the affected branches totaled about $4.1 billion as of June 30. PNC's acquisition of National City will make PNC the fifth largest U.S. bank in the nation, with about $289 billion in assets and about $180 billion in total deposits, the DOJ stated. Earnings Preview  On the earnings front, ADDvantage Technologies Group (AEY) and Duckwall-ALCO Stores (DUCK) are slated to release their quarterly figures. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.com throughout the day for more.   Economic Calendar  The economic calendar ends the week with the release of the producer price index (PPI), November retail sales, October business inventories, and the preliminary University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December.  Market Statistics  Equity option activity on the CBOE saw 1,109,429 call contracts traded on Thursday, compared to 916,258 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio rose to 0.83, while the 21-day moving average dropped to 0.82.  **The volume data shown above is from the Nasdaq and NYSE exchanges only. It does not include regional volume activity, which means that other daily volume quotes you see may be higher.** Overseas Trading  Overseas trading has fallen off a cliff today, as only 1 of the 11 foreign indices that we track is in positive territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a loss of 3.86%. In Asia, regional indices were hammered after negotiations over the bailout of the U.S. auto industry collapsed in the Senate. Automakers were hit hard by the news, with Toyota Motor, Honda Motor, and Hyundai Motor all plunging about 10% on the day. Meanwhile, Japanese exporters paced regional declines after the U.S. dollar dropped precipitously against the yen. In story stocks, Elpida Memory lost 11.4% after the company announced early redemption of convertible bonds worth 50 billion yen ($555 million) that the chipmaker issued last month.  The carnage continued across the pond in Europe, with the banking sector managing to outstrip auto sector declines following news from Bank of America and a gloomy update from U.K. lender HBOS. The former announced late on Thursday that it would cut between 30,000 and 35,000 jobs during the next 3 years. Meanwhile, HBOS said that bad debt charges have soared more than 70% to around 5 billion pounds ($7.5 billion) in the past couple of months. The bank, which is being bought by Lloyds TSB, added that the weakening U.K. economy means that impairment charges are likely to rise further. HBOS was off more than 16% in London, while Lloyds dropped 17.9%.  The U.S. Dollar Index (DX/Y) plunged 2.2% to close at 83.64 yesterday, its lowest finish since October 20. Prompting the sell-off was a Labor Department report that the number of people filing for state unemployment benefits for the first time soared to a 26-year high. Furthermore, the Commerce Department said that the trade deficit widened 1.1% to $57.2 billion. Against this backdrop, the euro surged 1.4% to $1.50, while the dollar fell 1.2% to 91.64 yen.  The futures contract on the 30-year bond (US/1) rose 20/32 on Thursday, as the gloomy U.S. economic data provided a flood of safe-haven activity among Treasurys. Meanwhile, the Treasury reported that it sold $16 billion of 10-year bonds at a yield at 2.67%, the lowest-yield ever offered in a 10-year auction. The previous lowest-yield auction was in March, at 3.51%.  Commodity Corner  Gold futures logged their fourth consecutive close in positive territory on Thursday, bolstered by skyrocketing crude-oil prices and weakness from the dollar. The latest bout of dismal unemployment data pressured the greenback lower against most of its foreign rivals, which gave dollar-denominated metals a lift. After logging an intraday high of $835.30 an ounce, gold for February delivery added $17.80 to close at $826.60. Since Monday, the malleable metal has dashed more than 10% higher.   Crude rose more than 10% on Thursday, fueled higher amid expectations that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) will slash production at its meeting next Wednesday. Also helping black gold muscle higher was the latest oil-related data from the International Energy Agency (IEA). In its latest monthly report, the IEA announced that while global crude demand will likely contract in 2008 for the first time in 25 years, demand is expected to rise in 2009. Against this backdrop, crude added $4.46, or 10.25%, to close at $47.98 per barrel.   Unusual Put and Call Activity:  For an explanation of how to use this information, check out our Education Center topics on Option Volume and . To read more of our analysis on the market's biggest stories, please visit our  section throughout the trading day.  Global markets hit the skids as U.S. auto industry bailout talks collapse
