Oil prices fell below US$45 a barrel Friday in reaction to news that a $14-billion emergency bailout for U.S. automakers had collapsed in the Senate, raising more fears for the U.S. economy.  The decline came after a strong rally in the previous session and traders said expectations of a significant production cut by OPEC would help keep a floor under prices.  By midday in Europe, light, sweet crude for January delivery was down $3.10 to $44.88 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Overnight, the contract surged $4.46, or 10 per cent, to settle at $47.98. In London, January Brent crude fell $3.07 to $44.32 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.  David Moore, commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney, said comments by Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi on Thursday that November production by the world's largest exporter was in line with OPEC's recently lowered targets indicated it was serious about output cuts. 'There are expectations that OPEC will move to tighten supplies,' Moore said. 'Oil prices softened this morning but well within the range we saw last night (despite) worries about falling consumption because of economic weakness.' The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which accounts for about 40 per cent of global crude supply, has signalled it plans to reduce output quotas at a meeting Dec. 17 in Algeria.  Many analysts expect a production cut of as much as 2 million barrels a day, which would match the combined reductions of two previous output cuts earlier this year.  But they say the success of any production cuts in stabilizing oil price will depend on how closely OPEC members comply. OPEC's overall November production was well above quotas agreed to by member states, according to Platts, the energy information arm of McGraw-Hill Cos.  Victor Shum, energy analyst at consultancy Purvin &amp;amp; Gertz in Singapore, said oil prices were adjusting Friday to what was seen as an 'overdone' rally. Weaker stock markets across Asia also pressured prices, he said. 'The biggest factor is still the expectation that OPEC will make substantial production cut next week, with co-ordination from Russia,' he said. Russia has said it plans to co-ordinate production levels with other non-OPEC producers. On Thursday, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev suggested that Russia is ready to work with OPEC. 
