BHP Billiton, the worlds largest mining company, and Honda added more than 4%. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines surged 9% in Tokyo after a measure of shipping costs for commodities advanced for a second day. Sony lost 2.7% after saying it will cut 16,000 jobs due to a bigger- than-expected deterioration of the economy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.4% to 84.81 as of 11:40 a.m. in Tokyo. The measure has gained 13% since Nov. 20, when it reached a five-year low, as governments from Australia to the US announced spending plans to combat the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  ''Theres still optimism that the stimulus package by the US will help soften things and thats helping sustain this short-term rally,'' said Kazuyuki Terao, who oversees about $US1.3 billion as chief investment officer of RCM Japan.  Japans Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.1% to 8,491.55. K.K. DaVinci Advisors, which runs Japans biggest private real estate fund, rallied after the Nikkei newspaper said the government may provide credit to struggling developers.  Hynix Semiconductor paced gains in South Korea after winning financial support from creditors. All other national benchmark indexes increased apart from New Zealand and the Philippines.  Futures on the Standard &amp;amp; Poors 500 Index rose 0.2% today. The measure fell 2.3% yesterday as companies from FedEx to Danaher forecast earnings that disappointed investors.  Consumer confidence  In Australia, an index of consumer sentiment jumped 7.5% in December, the second-straight gain, a Westpac survey showed, while the number of loans granted to build or buy homes rose in October for the first time in nine months.  Households are benefiting after the Australian central bank slashed its benchmark rate by three percentage points since September and the government handed out $10.4 billion to stoke spending.  BHP gained 3.8% to $29.52. Santos, Australias third-biggest oil and gas producer, added 5.3% to $13.58, after saying it is in talks about a settlement of its liability for a mudflow disaster in Indonesia.  Honda rose 4.3% to 1,925 yen.  US lawmakers and the White House are ''very, very close'' to an agreement on an automaker bailout, said Senator Christopher Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat and chairman of the Banking Committee. General Motors and Chrysler have said they need at least $US14 billion in combined aid to keep from running out of cash by early next year.  Shipping lines  Mitsui O.S.K. soared 9% to 543 yen. The Baltic Dry Index rose 1.2% yesterday, the second daily gain on increased spot purchases of iron ore to make steel. Daiwa Institute of Research also reiterated its ''outperform'' rating on the shipping line.  Sony dropped 2.7% to 1,845 yen. The maker of Bravia liquid crystal display televisions will cut 8,000 full-time jobs and another 8,000 seasonal and part-time jobs, as consumers curb spending amid a global recession.  Nippon Glass, the worlds third-largest supplier of glass for liquid crystal displays, declined 3.5% to 475 yen. The company said it expects operating profit to plunge as much as 65% for the first nine months.  The deepening global recession drove Japanese machinery orders down 4.4% in October from September, a report today showed, more than economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted.  Contracting trade  International trade will shrink in 2009 for the first time in more than 25 years as economic growth slows and commodity prices slide, the World Bank said. Global growth will slow to 0.9%, or the weakest rate since records began in 1970, the institution said.  Westpac, Australias second-largest bank, dropped 8.3% after it sold $2.5 billion in stock at an 11% discount to bolster capital. Commonwealth Bank sank 2.6% after saying it will sell up to $750 million in stock to Merrill Lynch to shore up capital.
