By Parvathy Ullatil HONG KONG, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares rose 3.1 percent on Monday, recouping some of the previous session's loss as shipping and auto issues climbed, but some banks bucked the broader market's gains. China Construction Bank dropped on a report of a share sale by Bank of America, and shares in BOC Hong Kong declined 6 percent as Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to underweight from equal-weight after the bank issued a profit warning late on Friday. Its parent, Bank of China agreed to extend a $2.5 billion subordinated credit facility to boost the subsidiary's capital base, a move which is seen creating an overhang on the local lender's book value 'We expect no second half dividend payout and that investor confidence in BOC (Hong Kong) will be affected negatively after the profit warning,' said Victor Wang, an analyst with UBS. The benchmark Hang Seng Index ended the morning session 452.46 points higher at 15,210.85. Chinese automakers, which dropped along with their regional peers on Friday after the U.S. Senate gave the thumbs-down to a $14 billion handout to the auto industry, clawed back most of their losses. Dongfeng Motor Group jumped 10.3 percent while Denway Motors added 6.3 percent. 'There seems to be some hope that the White House may work out an alternate plan to keep the Big Three automakers afloat,' said Peter Pak, vice president with BOCI Research. 'Also the market is factoring in a 75 basis-point cut in the (U.S.) Fed funds rate this week.' The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to take a call on further rate reductions at a two day meeting starting Monday. Mainboard turnover fell to HK$25.4 billion from HK$35.7 billion at midday on Friday. The China Enterprises Index of top locally listed mainland Chinese firms had risen 2.4 percent to 8,101.20. China Construction Bank, fell 3.9 percent on a local newspaper report that Bank of America was planning to sell some of its shares in the Chinese lender to raise $3 billion. But a source close to the Chinese bank told Reuters on Monday the report was untrue and Bank of America seperately denied the report later. Bank of America, which currently owns 44.71 billion H-shares or 19.13 percent of the issued share capital of China Construction Bank, aims to sell some of the Chinese bank shares at a more than 10 percent discount to raise up to $3 billion, Apple Daily reported, citing market sources. Bulk shippers vaulted after the Baltic Dry Index, which measures the changes in the cost of shipping commodities, rallied 7.5 percent on Friday. The global freight index gained 15 percent last week after dropping a massive 93 percent this year on mounting worries over lower demand for raw materials amid a global economic recession. China Cosco, the country's leading shipping conglomerate, gained 8.1 percent while China Shipping Development added 7.3 percent. (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Jonathan Hopfner) ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia...... Japan........ S.Korea.... S.E. Asia............ Hong Kong... Taiwan..... Australia/NZ......... India....... China...... OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street........... Gold......... Currency.. Eurostocks........... Oil........... JP bonds... ADR Report.......... LME metals.. US bonds... Stocks News US... Stocks News Europe... DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Taiwan diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead World forecasts TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news, double click on: U.S. company news European company news Forex news Global Economy news Technology news Telecoms news Media news Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Currency rates Dow Jones/NASDAQ Nikkei FTSE 100 Debt Keywords: MARKETS HONGKONG STOCKS (Reuters Messaging: parvathy.ullatil.reuters.com@reuters.net; +852 2843-6415)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  
