(Adds additional comment, coal market background)  Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Expected vessel arrivals at Australia's major coking coal export port, the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal in Queensland, have nearly halved to 28 for the month of December compared with average arrivals of 50-55 vessels, an official said Tuesday.  'The number of ships arriving is directly related to global steel production,' said Greg Smith, general manager of the port's operations at Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Infrastructure Group (BBI.AU), which holds a long-term lease to operate the coal-loading terminal.  Steelmakers have made huge production cuts in response to waning demand and plummeting prices, with many cutting output by about 40%, including the world's biggest producer ArcelorMittal (MT), which has cut output by 35%.  The drop in coal vessels won't affect Babcock's revenue, however, since all its contracts are on a take-or-pay basis, which means users of their services will have to pay a specified amount even if the services aren't used.  Dalrymple is the key exit port for coking coal from the Bowen Basin, the world's largest producing area of high-quality coking coal.  'There is obviously a downturn in the market. But this is also the time when you do expect some fun and games being played, before the repricing negotiations (for annual coking coal prices),' said Smith.  Iron ore mining producers like Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (RIO) and Rio Tinto Ltd. (RTP) have already announced they will cut output, but most coking coal miners said demand has so far stayed firm.  And while many coal producers around the world will feel the impact from the downturn in the coal market, Australian miners are expected to weather it well, according to Merrill Lynch, even though the bank has slashed its coking coal price forecast for 2009 by 58% to US$125 a metric ton. The 2008 benchmark price was US$300/ton.  Australian producers such as Felix Resources Ltd.(FLX.AU) and Gloucester Coal Ltd.'s (GCL.AU) operating costs have come down sharply in U.S. dollar terms, while mining costs are also lower.  Production and export cuts are more likely to come from higher cost producers in the U.S. and Canada, Merrill said.  Australia supplies about 55% of the world's seaborne metallurgical coal; it exported 135 million tons during the last financial year that ended June 30.  -By Elisabeth Behrmann, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-8235-2965; elisabeth.behrmann@dowjones.com  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=%2BMcNpk7BTRKDnX6TXbKO2A%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-09-08 0141ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.  
