Oil prices rebounded on Monday after slumping under $US40 a barrel to near four-year lows before the weekend on news of massive job losses in the United States, the world's biggest energy consumer.  Analysts said that gains were driven by expectations the OPEC oil producers' cartel could slash its output later this month.  Despite the recovery, underlying sentiment remained fragile on deep concerns about weak energy demand, especially in the recession-hit United States, traders said.  In late afternoon trading on London's InterContinental Exchange (ICE), Brent North Sea crude for delivery in January jumped $US2.93 to $US42.67 a barrel.  Light sweet crude for January rallied $US2.91 to $US43.72 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 'Oil futures were higher as it looked increasingly like OPEC will respond to the sharp decline in oil prices by cutting output later this month,' said Sucden analyst Michael Davies. 'Libya's top oil official, Shukri Ghanem, said OPEC should make a 'substantial' cut in output at next week's meeting.' The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which pumps 40 per cent of the world's crude, is widely expected to agree on a oil production cut when it meets in Oran, Algeria on December 17.  Prices also won support on Monday from rebounding global stock markets as investors eyed prospects for fresh government action against the ongoing global financial crisis, analysts said.  World equity markets took flight on Monday, with spectacular gains in Europe, on renewed prospects for robust government recession-fighting action.  European markets closed with advances ranging from six to 10 per cent after a strong showing in Asia, as the impact of a dismal US employment report was overcome by news of a big public works spending plan in the United States.  Wall Street also vaulted higher at the opening, fuelled by hopes the huge stimulus planned by president-elect Barack Obama would ease the worldwide financial crisis.  On Friday, Brent crude had tumbled below $US40 after the US Labour Department reported that employers slashed 533,000 jobs in November, sending the unemployment rate to a 15-year high of 6.7 per cent.  The number of job losses was the largest in 34 years and much higher than the 325,000 expected by private forecasters, suggesting the recession in the world's largest economy would be longer and deeper than feared.  Oil prices have plunged by more than two-thirds since reaching record highs above $US147 on July 11 as a global economic slowdown weakens energy demand. 'I think we have seen a modest recovery in oil prices following very heavy declines last Friday,' David Moore, a Sydney-based commodity analyst with the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said on Monday. 'At this point, I think the concerns of weakening oil consumption has not gone away. The US job figures were very weak and reinforced worries about weak oil consumption,' he added. 
