BANGKOK, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Thailand's benchmark stock index was up 2.81 percent at 403.92 at the midsession break on Monday, helped by a firm finish on Wall Street on Friday, with falling oil prices bolstering hopes of more holiday spending, analysts said. It hit 405.72 at one point, its highest since Dec. 1. Stocks on the move included: THORESEN THAI AT 4-WEEK HIGH ON DIVIDEND HOPES Thoresen Thai Agencies, the country's biggest dry bulk shipper, jumped 6.6 percent to 14.60 baht after hitting a four-week high of 14.80 baht earlier on expectations that the firm would pay an attractive dividend. Ayudhya Securities said in a note it expected Thoresen to pay a dividend of 1.50 baht per share on its second-half earnings, representing a yield of 11 percent. 0520 GMT LAND &amp;amp; HOUSES UP 7 PCT ON LOWER COSTS Top home builder rose 7 percent to 3.02 baht on expectations that the company would benefit from falling material costs after a fall in steel prices. The property sector is also expected to benefit from falling interest rates after some banks cut their lending rates in line with a move by the central bank last week. The Bank of Thailand cut its policy rate by 100 basis points to 2.75 percent to support Thailand's economy. 0530 BANKING STOCKS, DEFENSIVE PLAYS RALLY Banks and defensive counters including consumer and utilities stocks rallied in early trade after analysts, including UBS, recommended that investors pick up these shares amid the global downturn and political unrest. Bank of Ayudhya, Thailand's fifth largest lender, led gains, rising 4.7 percent to 8.90 baht. Kasikornbank , the fourth largest, was up 3.2 percent at 40.25 baht, its highest since Dec. 3. Top department store operator Central Pattana gained more than 13 percent to 12.80 baht after hitting a four-week high of 13.10, and CP All, the biggest convenience store chain, was up 4.3 percent at 12.10 baht, coming off its highest since July 2007 of 12.20. 0351 GMT - For the Thai press digest click on - For Thailand's IPO diary click on - For Thailand's stock exchange news click on - For Thailand corporate earnings: - For Thailand economic forecast: ($1=35.63 Baht) (Reporting by Khettiya Jittapong and Ploy Chitsomboon; Editing by Alan Raybould) FINDING REUTERS DATA - For details about the shareholders and institutional investors in a listed company, Reuters 3000 Xtra users can right-click on any RIC in a story and select 'Related Company Data'. On the 'Company Views' page that pops up, move your cursor over the 'Ownership' tab and select either Insider, Institutional or Mutual Funds. For Insiders, the pages indicate the number of shares held and well as the percentage of total shares held as well as market value and last update. For Institutional Investors and Mutual Funds, the page also indicates what percentage of the fund's assets are invested in the stock. To export the data to Excel, click on the Excel link at the top left. * ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia........ Japan....... S.Korea... S.E.  Asia....... Hong Kong... Taiwan.... Australia/NZ.... India....... China..... * OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street .... Gold ....... Currency.. Eurostocks..... Oil ........ JP bonds... ADR Report ..... LME metals. US bonds.. Stocks News US.. Stocks News Europe * DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Thailand diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead * TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news, double click on: U.S. company news European company news Forex news Global Economy news Technology news Telecoms news Media news Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com * LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Currency rates Dow Jones/NASDAQ Nikkei FTSE 100 Debt Thai baht LME price overview Keywords: MARKETS THAILAND/STOCKS . Keywords: MARKETS THAILAND/STOCKS (ploy.chitsomboon@thomsonreuters.com; +662 648 9735; Reuters Messaging: ploy.chitsomboon.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
