Economic stimulus payments boost shares Retail stocks up 3 per cent Consumers expected to spend big   RETAIL stocks rose 3 per cent today in part due to expectations of increased spending from the Federal Government's $10.4 billion economic stimulus plan.  The ASX 200 closed 4 per cent higher, rising 142 points to 3631.6. The broader All Ordinaries rose 3.7 per cent to close 126.6 points higher at 3553.8.  The Federal Government's one-off payments of up to $1400 will go to seniors, pensioners, careers and low-income families.  Centrelink will pay out $4 billion by Thursday, and consumers are being urged to spend their windfall.  Treasurer Wayne Swan this afternoon called the payments a 'helping hand' targeted at those who need it the most, and who are likely to spend the money.  The payments will create up to 75,000 jobs and boost GDP by 0.5 -1 per cent, he said.  ''$1400 coming into the hands of pensioners any second now is likely to be very beneficial (for retailers),'' Austock Securities senior client adviser Michael Heffernan said.  Macquarie Equities adviser Helen Spencer said the market gained across the board. 'Recent rate drops and recent announcements made by the government are looking to target consumers in the hope that they do open their purse strings,'' she said.  ''(The handout) is not the only thing helping the retailers but it's certainly not hurting them.' Retailer Harvey Norman was 10 cents or 4.26 per cent higher at $2.45 despite saying it would close stores over the next six months.  Upmarket retailer David Jones gained 4.7 per cent to $2.91 and JB hi-Fi was 10.5 per cent higher at $9.44.  Also boosting the market today were higher oil prices, which rose for the first time in 7 days in Asian trade this afternoon, causing local investors to rush into oil stocks in late afternoon trade.  CMC Markets analyst David Taylor said bargain-hunters were snapping up cheap stocks. 'Today was a broad-based buying opportunity for anyone hungry to get back in,'' he said.  Mr Taylor said the materials and financials sectors led the market upwards, with energy stocks boosted by a higher price for oil in Asian trading and speculation that Santos could become a takeover target. 'This meant that our oil stocks did exceptionally well,'' he said.  As New York's light sweet crude oil rose by $US1.62 to $US42.43, shares in oil producers jumped 7 per cent in afternoon trade.  With AAP
