          ...have you ever tried buying 10,000 worth of a corporate bond ?   No, but I have bought several lots of 20,000 nominal through Selftrade. It never seems to make any difference to the price whether I buy 20,000 or 50,000. They (Selftrade) have almost always offered these retail trades at the asking price quoted on bondscape. I&amp;#039;m no great fan of Selftrade, but as far as bonds are concerned their service doesn&amp;#039;t seem too bad.  On the other hand, I don&amp;#039;t think that now is the time to take the risk of buying individual bonds, unless they will represent a small part of an individual portfolio or you have enough money to diversify sufficiently. Bid/offer spreads on corporate bonds are ridiculously wide at the moment, which makes it very hard for the normal retail punter to buy/sell at a reasonable price.  As far as I can see, that really only leaves SLXX for those who want to get into the market on reasonable terms.   MY point about SLXX was that it should not be trading so far away from NAV. I found the following comment elsewhere on the TMF site:   Q: How does an ETF differ from a share in an investment trust? A: With an investment trust there can be a discrepancy between the trust value and the  &amp;#039;Net Asset Value&amp;#039; of the trust (the share price of the trust may be at a premium or,  more often, at a discount to the value of the shares in the companies that it holds).   With an ETF this shouldn&amp;#039;t happen  for the following reason.   Although the small guy can only buy and sell existing units, the big guys can create  and destroy units in big chunks. Therefore, if the price of the ETF gets too far above  the value of the assets it represents, the big boys will come in, buy some of the  underlying assets and convert them into ETFs, making a nice profit in the process.  Similarly, they can destroy units (and receive the underlying assets at a bargain price)  if the price of the ETF gets too far below the value of the assets owned by the  company.   This ensures that the small guy always pays the price of the assets underlying the ETF  that he/she buys  no premium and no discount.  Of course in practice nothing works  perfectly but the price of ETFs do seem to stay within a small range of the value of  the assets they represent, so you get what you pay for.  Essentially, to a small guy, the ETF looks like an Investment Trust but  without  significant premium or discount , and one that can be traded easily. All this represents  an easy way to buy into a tracker fund using your existing brokerage account.   The yield figures from the ishares site are based on NAV, not on market price. The important number for a bond ETF, in my view, is the flat yield. If you recalculate the flat yield based on market price it&amp;#039;s 7.08%, not 7.23%. Not a huge difference but then (again in my view) not a screaming buy.  Personally, I&amp;#039;d be more inclined to buy some Barclays perps. at a flat yield around 10%, or some M&amp;amp;amp;S 2011s at around 8% maturity yield.                  
