 Most Popular on washingtonpost.com  TOOLBOX  Resize  Save/Share +  COMMENT  Your browser's settings may be preventing you from commenting on and viewing comments about this item. See instructions for fixing the problem.  Discussion Policy  CLOSE  Comments that include profanity or personal attacks or other inappropriate comments or material will be removed from the site. Additionally, entries that are unsigned or contain 'signatures' by someone other than the actual author will be removed. Finally, we will take steps to block users who violate any of our posting standards, terms of use or privacy policies or any other policies governing this site. Please review the full rules governing commentaries and discussions. You are fully responsible for the content that you post.  Who's Blogging   Links to this article  Washington Post Staff Writer  Borrowers are rushing to refinance their mortgages at record low rates but face unexpected delays as swamped lenders struggle to cope with the surge at a time when layoffs have sharply cut staffing.  Bank of America, which started shedding 7,500 employees after its July merger with Countrywide, recently yanked 300 workers from its home equity line department to help deal with refinancing requests, said Matt Vernon, the bank's national sales executive.  Joy Siegel, a Bethesda real estate lawyer, said some borrowers have been told they would have to wait two weeks for a call back from their lenders. 'That's incredible considering rates sometimes change on an hour-by-hour basis,' she said.  Given the jam, Wells Fargo no longer allows its loan officers to lock in rates for less than 90 days so there's enough time to close the loans, said Bill Malkoun, branch manager at Prosperity Mortgage, a joint venture between Wells Fargo and Long &amp;amp; Foster.  'It's as if the entire nation woke up one morning and decided they all wanted to refinance at the same time,' he said. 'Sometimes I pick up one message, return that call and then find four more waiting.'  Refinancing activity took off after Nov. 25, when the Federal Reserve announced it would buy mortgage-backed securities to help loosen consumer lending. Mortgage rates immediately plummeted well below 6 percent, breaking a psychological barrier. Refinance applications soared each week since, though they tapered off around New Year's.  Bank of America and other lenders said activity has rebounded to pre-holiday levels as rates have continued to drop. This week, a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 5.01 percent, down from 5.10 percent the previous week and 5.87 percent a year ago, according to a Freddie Mac survey released yesterday. That's the lowest since the survey started in 1971. The Fed began buying mortgage-backed securities this week, which helped push rates down.  With all the refinancing buzz, Ron Gross of North Bethesda expected to snag a great rate when he called his lender, CitiMortgage. Instead, he got a recording informing him that due to heavy call volume, his call could not be answered. 'I couldn't even leave a message.'  Susan Cecala of Falls Church, whose brother is an expert in mortgage finance, said she, too, could not break through the automated message systems or voice mails. She called two lenders and two mortgage brokers, who act as liaisons between lenders and borrowers.  'Bank of America even sent me something in the mail inviting me to refinance with them and when I called, they referred me to apply on the Web,' she said. 'I never did hear from them. Isn't that strange?'  Finally, a friend referred her to a broker who helped her refinance into a money-saving deal.  Even more perplexing than the backlog, Cecala said, were the rates she saw on some lenders' Web sites. They were far higher than she expected. 'Why would they put such high rates on their Web sites if they're trying to attract people?'  
