President Barack Obama, speaks to reporters as he walks in the basement area of the Brady press briefing room at the White House, as makes a surprise visit Thursday in Washington. MANUEL BALCE CENETA/AP Photo  Last Modified: 1/23/2009 9:21 AM  WASHINGTON  President Barack Obama says it appears Congress is 'on target' to approve a massive new stimulus package by Feb. 16.  He spoke Friday after meeting in the White House's Roosevelt Room with top Democratic and Republican leaders from Capitol Hill. Obama says he realizes the package is 'a heavy lift' for many lawmakers, but that the urgent economic crisis demands action.  Obama also says that any legislation governing the use of an additional $350 billion in financial industry bailout money must include new measures to ensure accountability and transparency.  PDF IndexPrint  Email Story  Comment   RSS  Bookmark  If you would like to bookmark this article you will need to Login to your tulsaworld.com account  Reader Comments  Add your comment  37 readers have commented on this story so far. Tell us what you think below!  We need your help  Thank you to everyone who has registered with tulsaworld.com. We have seen an increase in the number of readers' comments on stories, and people always tell us they keep coming back to see your reactions to the news.  But with that increase, we are seeing more people violating the terms and conditions when it comes to what is allowed in comments. Please help us by clicking the 'Report this Comment' link next to a comment when you see one that is out of line. To review what is allowed and what is not, go to our terms and conditions. Thank you.  -- Web Editor Jason Collington  zzx375, BA (1/23/2009 5:54:48 AM)  'Democrats preserved a tax break for this year and 2010 that would mean $500 for many workers and $1,000 for millions of couples, including those whose earnings are so low that they pay no federal income tax'  A tax break for someone paying no taxes makes no logical sense. Is this really augmentation of the EIC? What does AP writer Kuhnhenn mean?  More detail please.  Echos, tulsa (1/23/2009 6:18:30 AM)  zzx it just doesnt make sense to give the people paying taxes a tax break! If they did they would not be able to give the ones not paying taxes a break. I would like to know more too. I guess this is how the Democrats operate, Remember? They need to get people spending money and the low income and unemployed are not going to be spending money. Our economy is in enough trouble right now without them handing out money to people who will not spend it to stimulate the economy. I want to see the guarantee that comes with this package. Numbers about jobs, for how long, at what pay, by whom.  online predator, Muskogee (1/23/2009 6:19:35 AM)  In the photo the reporters look like their just in love with him.  Ayo, T-Town (1/23/2009 6:21:56 AM)  You make a good point, zzx375.  I like that they voted down the health insuarance subsidy for laid off workers, but await more detail on the 27 billion for energy efficiency. That could be almost anything.??  If we're intent on doing this, then make it work!  IMO, Tulsa (1/23/2009 6:52:07 AM)  I'm confused.  Did the republicans try to eliminate a health insurance subsidy for laid-off workers?  Considering the lack of jobs and cost of COBRA insurance, why is that a bad thing?  Without some sort of assistance, most of the recently unemployed will join the uninsured.  I don't understand a tax break for people who earn too little to owe taxes either.  Would that result in a refund for those earning so little?  Echos, tulsa (1/23/2009 7:05:57 AM)  IMO, I work hard everyday and am taxed to death. This is so unfair to the people who have worked for years barely making a livable wage. I do make a livable wage with no spouse and pay more than my share of taxes and will get a small portion of a refund. It just irks me because of your point. I would also like to know who is really financing this medical for people without jobs?  Echos, tulsa (1/23/2009 7:10:40 AM)  Oh and please dont say if I make a livable wage then I dont need it. What about just deserving it for paying in so many tax dollars. That is what should matter. This spread the wealth thing in pathetic when my earnings only mean middle class.  52favoriteteacher, Southwest Trojans Rock! (1/23/2009 7:10:55 AM)  The House Ways and Means Committee on Thursday approved $275 billion in tax cuts on a party-line vote of 24-13.  I like it I love it I want some more of it I tried so hard I just...  concernedpapa, Kiefer (1/23/2009 7:21:50 AM)  zzx  You seem request more details on almost every article written. Have you considered offering your services to the TW? Perhaps this would be an oppourtunity for you to help yourself and TW. I realize this was an AP ariticle but who knows? perhaps this would just be a stepping stone!!  Dobrescu, Tulsa, OK (1/23/2009 7:42:28 AM)  I now have something to look forward to every day, the coming of the mailman. I'll run to the mail box to see if my check arrived.  Wow, can't wait.  Joshua77, Tulsa (1/23/2009 8:42:47 AM)  Tax breaks for those who pay no income tax? What the hell is that?? So they're going to take a portion of each working persons taxes and give it to people who don't pay taxes at all? Didn't the Soviet Union try this very same thing?  Echos, tulsa (1/23/2009 8:46:56 AM)  I would also like to know why they approved the 350 tarp. Bank of America is one good example of why we should not give them more money. They gave out 4 billion dollars in bonuses to Merrill Lynch in January. This money should not be awarded to them any further. But I guess Obama will give it to them anyway. Talk about a ton of corruption  Echos, tulsa (1/23/2009 8:50:31 AM)  Well I am so glad to see this big 'CHANGE' Obama is bring. Freaken Democrats are going to plunge us into a depression we will never get out of. Revert to a third world country and have to depend on our government for everything  zzx375, BA (1/23/2009 8:59:38 AM)  Concernedpapa,  And this is the second time in as many days that you have elected to weigh-in in on my taking a writer to task for lack of detail.  This appears to bother you. Why? Perhaps you would prefer I indulge, as others are want to do here, and direct my remarks at your writing. Perhaps you would prefer ridicule, name calling and dismissal directed at yourself.  Yes, the AP writers have specific word limits imposed upon them. But I pay for a print subscription to TW and have expectations that the information provided will be of sufficient use.  Maybe it is logical to you to give a tax break to those who pay no taxes. I don't.  Or perhaps you wish to 'assume' based upon all that has been published recently on the topic (essentially your admonition the first time around).  Assume if you wish but certainly you know what happens when you do.  In the mean time, I will continue to comment on writing that makes no sense and is lacking in key detail.  Ayo, T-Town (1/23/2009 9:02:17 AM)  IMO, on my quick scan earlier I interpreted the health insurance subsidy as a benefit to laid off workers. I think we'd have to have more information.  I'm like Echos in that I earn a livable wage. I've never had a two income household. A sizable percentage of my income goes to taxes. Since I'm single and have no longer have a dependent I don't get a return. Sometimes I pay in. It doesn't bother me much. Sure I would rather take home everything I earn, but I also want my tax money to go into programs that will help people find a way to work themselves up to a better station in life. I also want my tax money to assist those who are never going to be able to live a life above hand to mouth. With the right programs maybe their children will end up doing better. I guess it's because I didn't grow up with much and I've been where they are, so I personally don't feel like it's unfair. I know what it's like for me and my daughter to go hungry, and do without basic things. That isn't metephor. I want my taxes to help people who are in a lot worse shape than me. Since I know someone will come on here and call me a bleeding heart take note that I loath those who abuse the government systems only because they won't do for themselves.  I have a friend who lives in another state who is in the six figures, salary alone, and then his wife works. He always gets a return on his taxes. It's mildly irritating as he suffers for nothing and never has, but what are ya going to do? It takes money to make money, and he makes it work for him so I can't blame him for that. That's just the way things are.  
