After being dragged over the coals by politicians in Washington, General Motors executives returned home to Detroit hoping to find a little encouragement at this month's North American International Auto Show.  GM is still the big dog in Motor City and, after a year of being pummelled as an uncompetitive industrial dinosaur, the General put on a parade of high-tech cars for an enthusiastic hometown crowd of GM employees and retirees.  The company had already put together back-to-back bad years, but things really fell off a cliff when credit-frozen U.S. consumers almost completely stopped buying cars and trucks in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Flying into the U.S. capital on the private jet to shop for a government bailout loan was certainly less than brilliant public relations, but GM says, in effect: Alright, we get it, we won't do that again - but give us some credit for the progress we've made and try to imagine the economy without us.  One of the people right in the middle of GM's painful restructuring is Canadian Jim Taylor. He was more responsible than anyone for successfully bringing Cadillac back from the dead as the division's former general manager. Now he's been made CEO of the Hummer division.  Hummer? There's a brand in trouble and the only one that General Motors has so far pledged to sell. What a job for Taylor: trying to keep Hummer alive long enough to sell it to someone.  In corporations as large and layered as General Motors, many executives hide from the public and only come out to spout bland and forgettable generalizations. Not Jim Taylor.  He is a graduate of McMaster University in mechanical engineering and began his career in 1980 with GM in Oshawa. It will be interesting to see where he ends up when and if Hummer gets sold.  Vaughan: So, it has come down to this - you are selling both Hummers and Hummer.  Taylor: Yes, both, simultaneously.  To sell Hummer, we have to sell Hummers to show that the brand's viable.  We have to show a potential investor who may want to take this brand over that it has legs, that it has current cash flow through sales and that it has a long-term life.  The timing couldn't be worse for you which, of course, is why it is necessary to do it.  Yes, it couldn't be worse. To go out to the investment community anywhere in the world looking for cash now couldn't be worse. That's true.  Hummer seems like a Middle East brand. Those would be the doors I'd knock on first, if I can offer an opinion.  I think the target-rich territory for investors are the places where people still love this vehicle - Russia, the Middle East - places where fuel isn't as top of mind as it is here; also places where the vehicle can do what it does.  As we know, this is a pretty over-qualified vehicle for a subdivision. Where it gets good use for what it was designed to do is the Middle East or even some areas of China and the developing countries, which don't have perfect roads and actually need what this vehicle does.  Your role at GM has put you right in the middle of all the restructurings and the hearings in Washington. Do the politicians really understand the auto industry?  No, I think, unfortunately, they don't.  And I think we can take openly some of the blame for that.  They're not as educated in our subject, but they have a pretty wide range of things they have to do every day. They probably don't have the grasp of this subject that we thought they had when we went into Washington.  It made it difficult for them to understand, not in a sympathy way, but to understand the gravity of what we're talking about and the implications it has here and in Canada.  How frustrating is it? There's hundreds of billions of dollars for bankers and insurance companies, but your CEO had to practically beg to get a couple of billion. And it wasn't a handout, it was a loan.  Many times people have said that.  Some press that might not have been too supportive were commenting that, I think, the last one, Citibank, got $25-billion Sunday night on a phone call.  And poor old Rick [Wagoner, GM CEO] was in there with the other two CEOs grovelling for a week at a time.  So how does the Detroit auto industry survive?  Well, I think some of the more constructive discussions in Washington were about the financial models.  They could evaluate that our fixed costs were so high based on history and all of the IOUs that we've built up over a long period of time and saw there just had to be a serious restructuring.  I think what some of them were trying to say is we'd really like the benefits of a typical bankruptcy restructuring but not be bankrupt to do it.  How do we find that sweet spot between the two and get that kind of thing done to give the companies a fair chance so they aren't carrying the handicap of being an old U.S. company?  What do we do over the next few months to strip the things out of there that gives us a financial shot with the kind of product that we have? That's all the work that's going on behind the scenes.  Michael Vaughan is co-host with Jeremy Cato of Car/Business, which appears Fridays at 8 p.m. on Business News Network and Saturdays at 2 p.m. on CTV.
