Leon Osman is hoping Everton have put their poor form behind them after moving into the top half of the Barclays Premier League with victory over Fulham.  Louis Saha's 88th-minute header settled a poor match in the hosts' favour at Goodison Park and Osman said: 'The performance wasn't what we were after but the three points were vital today. 'We hope we've turned the corner and we've taken a big step in the right direction, won our first home game and we're unbeaten in three. We'll take the positives from that.' Marouane Fellaini's late goal won the midweek match at Bolton by the same scoreline and Billinge-born Osman added on Sky Sports 1: 'We've won this way in the last two games. 'Bolton was the same in midweek, a scrappy game where we nicked a goal late on. We'll be happy to do that every game.' Saha added: 'We all worked hard for that win - it was a great opportunity for me and it meant a lot to score that goal. 'We haven't played very well - it's been very difficult - but we're playing better so it's going to come hopefully.' Toffees boss David Moyes added: 'It wasn't a good performance but the result was really important to us, that's two wins in a week now. 'It was always going to be tight, Fulham don't concede many goals. 'We've kept another clean sheet but we needed a bit of good fortune at times. 'We were a bit wasteful at times in the first half but in the end we got there.' On Saha's breakthrough, his first goal for the club, the Scot added: 'I think it'll help him, goals give centre forwards confidence.  Cottagers boss Roy Hodgson believed his team deserved more from the contest.  He added on Sky Sports 1: 'It's always tough to lose in the last five minutes and we missed two very good chances through Zoltan Gera and Bobby Zamora - it would have made a big difference if we'd taken those chances. 'But if you don't take your chances there's always a risk, it was a good cross and Louis Saha was perfectly placed. 'It was a cruel fate. We had players around the ball and could have got closer to the cross I thought, but it was good movement in the box from Saha. 'When your team do well you should be congratulated on getting something from the game - even if it's only a draw - but to go away with another odd-goal defeat is a bitter pill to swallow. 'If we'd not missed our chances it could have been a 1-0 win but if you don't take them there's a chance the ball will fall kindly for your opponents and it will be a 1-0 defeat.'
