STERN John says he did not have to think twice before agreeing to join Bristol City on loan.  A move to Ashton Gate not only presented the prospect of escape from hard-up Championship rivals Southampton, but also offered a welcome opportunity to renew acquaintance with Dele Adebola.  Brothers in arms during two seasons spent at the forefront of Coventry City's attack, the pair forged a partnership which became the scourge of many a defence in English football's second tier.  Not surprisingly, John jumped at the chance to team up with his former sidekick once more and it was Adebola who made the introductions and showed the Trindiad &amp;amp; Tobago striker around Ashton Gate when he first arrived last week.  The pair have yet to appear on the pitch at the same time, but that could all change when City take on Reading's erstwhile Barclays Premier League stars at Ashton Gate this afternoon. Handed his debut as a second-half substitute at Barnsley last Saturday, the 31-year-old striker made a good impression when replacing Adebola during Tuesday night's goalless stalemate against Sheffield United.  City manager Gary Johnson hinted at changes in attack after that game and, if given the nod today, John will relish the opportunity to play alongside Adebola.  He said: 'Dele and I had a great understanding at Coventry and our's was a partnership which worked really well.  'We're different players and we seem to complement one another well. He's the type of player I can play off and thrive being next to.  'Dele is the big man, who goes in where it hurts and takes the hard physical knocks, whereas I prefer to play a little deeper, hold the ball up and bring others into play.  'It worked well when we were together at Coventry, because I could feed off the headers and flicks which Dele would win.  'When I heard City were interested in me, I realised Dele was there and it wasn't a difficult decision to make.'  Unlike the vast majority of his new teammates, John boasts Premiership experience, having played in the top flight for Birmingham City earlier in his career. And he believes joining City offers him a realistic chance to relive former glories.  He confided: 'The first thing I noticed was how much the players here want to be in the Premier League.  'It would be something new for most of them and they're totally commited to winning promotion. I already have Premier League experience and I'd love to score the goals that help Bristol City get there too.'  
