Chelsea stormed back to the top of the Barclays Premier League with a 2-0 win at Blackburn and a vow that they have the bottle to survive a long, tough title race.  Assistant manager Ray Wilkins said the nation had been waiting for the Blues to slip up in an icy rainstorm at Ewood Park, with injuries piling up and morale damaged by Champions League defeat at Roma. The lads were hurt after what happened in Rome because they felt they didnt do themselves justice, said Wilkins. But they did themselves justice today.  Arsene Wenger predicted the closest race in years. It could be tighter than anyone expected, said the Arsenal boss. The teams at the bottom have improved and made it more difficult to go away and win. Victories for Fulham and Tottenham mean the teams in the entire second half of the table are now separated by just three points. Harry Redknapps magic touch continued as his Spurs side made it five matches unbeaten under his stewardship with a dramatic 2-1 win over Manchester City.  Spurs moved off the bottom of the league and up four places into 16th, now just a point behind Mark Hughes side. Fulhams controverisial 2-1 win over Newcastle took them to 10th in the table and sent Joe Kinnears side tumbling into the drop zone.  Chelsea beat Blackburn without Didier Drogba - who was not 100 per cent after his recent return from a knee injury - or Joe Cole, left out after reporting tight hamstrings. Both could play against Burnley in the Carling Cup on Wednesday. Chelsea boss Luiz Felipe Scolari, 60 yesterday, is already without Michael Essien, Michael Ballack, Ashley Cole and Ricardo Carvalho.  Essien took a swipe at Arsenals style after their defeats to Fulham, Hull and Stoke. Everybody likes to watch beautiful football, but to play beautiful football without points, I dont think its worth it, he told BBCs Inside Sport. Arsenal are one of those teams that just plays beautiful football, but at the end of the day they dont get the points that they want to. More...     
