Robbie Keane goes back to White Hart Lane on Saturday evening inspired by the desire of Liverpool's local heroes to win the title.  The Republic of Ireland striker returns to Tottenham for the first time since his 20million summer move to Anfield with his new club top of the Barclays Premier League and he revealed the desire of skipper Steven Gerrard and defender Jamie Carragher to end Liverpool's 18-year wait for a league title has impressed him hugely.  Keane told the club's website: 'Stevie doesn't go on about it every day but there is a born desire inside him and the likes of Jamie Carragher to win the league. We have two local players here who want to win the title for the city.'  He added: 'Their determination in how they play and their attitude towards wanting to win the title rubs off on everyone at the club.  'If we can all display a piece of the desire that they've shown over the last few years then we've got a chance.  'But every player wants to win things no matter where they are from. You want to look back on your career and see medals - and there's no better medal than the Premier League.'  Liverpool's odds have been cut this week since the victories over Chelsea and Portsmouth gave them a three-point lead at the top of the table.  But they are still only third favourites behind Chelsea and Manchester United, and manager Rafael Benitez said: 'I do not care about the odds, all I care about is continuing the way we are playing and being top as long as we can.'  EDITORS CHOICE  A man, who pushed a teenager off a second-floor balcony in a fit of rage after a romance broke up, has been branded a public danger.  A GREAT grandmother is celebrating after reaching a century of birthdays.  THE latest in a series of signs has been unveiled on an approach road to Bromsgrove.  UNHAPPY youngsters are taking to the streets in a bid to save youth services in Charford and Sidemoor.  THE family of a missing vulnerable woman from Worcester, last seen in Bromsgrove, is appealing for her to get in touch.  A NEW Sainsbury's for Bromsgrove is the last thing we need with the economy in the state it is.  
