Liverpool have changed beyond recognition since Rafa Benitez first took his team to Bolton more than four years ago.   Now they have the look of title contenders - and the Spaniard knows it.   That was not the case in August 2004 when the newly-appointed Anfield boss had his first experience of playing at the Reebok and his first taste of defeat in the Premiership.   Scroll down for more  The scale of the task in front of him dawned on Benitez after seeing his side outmuscled by a typically robust Bolton.   Sami Hyypia did not last the distance that day because his nose was broken by Kevin Davies.   On Saturday, the Finn won his battle with Davies hands down and it was centre back partner Daniel Agger's turn to give blood when he lost a tooth in a collision with a post.   Another notable event that day in 2004 was the debut of Xabi Alonso, signed from Real Sociedad where they do not prepare you for a trip to Bolton. More...      Alonso said on his latest return to the Reebok: 'I didn't know how the Premier League worked and it was quite different. The physical side of the game was very strong.'  Alonso was supreme in midfield this time, carving Bolton apart with his passing as Liverpool maintained their best start to a Barclays Premier League campaign to keep pace with Chelsea.   'But it's important the team keep the same identity,' said Alonso. 'We will have suspensions and injuries and we've seen that whoever is playing can do a job.'   Benitez made a similar point as he pondered Liverpool's chances of taking the title to Anfield for the first time in 19 years.   Nobody has stepped up to the plate better than Dirk Kuyt who, like Alonso, was almost sacrificed in a summer move for Aston Villa's Gareth Barry.   Scroll down for more  The Dutchman's seventh goal of the campaign broke Bolton's resistance after 28 minutes when the home side failed to close down Fabio Aurelio - whose cross Kuyt steered home with a fine header from 12 yards.   It was a clinical end to a fluid passing move, although Bolton boss Gary Megson called it 'a shambles'.   Steven Gerrard added a second 17 minutes from time with a glancing header after Andy O'Brien's slip gave substitute Fernando Torres the chance to clip in a clever cross from the right.   Kuyt and Torres also hit the woodwork, while Gerrard and Lucas added to the profligacy in front of goal.   But they all paled in comparison to Robbie Keane's breathtaking miss in the first half.   He somehow failed from only a couple of yards and looked far from happy when taken off with half-an-hour left.   Bolton substitute Ricardo Gardner also wasted two second-half chances, while referee Rob Styles ruled out Gary Cahill's headed effort from a corner on the stroke of half-time.   The referee, who wrongly awarded a penalty against Bolton at Old Trafford in September, said Pepe Reina was impeded by Kevin Nolan.   Benitez agreed that the keeper appeared to shove Nolan first, although he said: 'There is a rule that says the six-yard box is for the keeper.'   Megson was one of those to give a quizzical look at that statement.   BOLTON   LIVERPOOL   Man of the match:  Referee: More...      
