Robbie Keanehas pledged not to celebrate if he scores against troubled former club Tottenham this afternoon.  Spurs sit bottom of the Barclays Premier League after a nightmare start that cost Juande Ramos his job.  There can be no room for sentiment as Liverpool look to maintain a three-point lead at the top, but Keane admits he would have mixed emotions if his first league goal came at White Hart Lane.  'If I score it will feel the same as when I scored against Liverpool last year,' said the boyhood Red.  'And I would not celebrate because I never, ever do against my former clubs.  'Having said that, I am fully focused on Liverpool. I'll try to do a job for the team and if I can help us get three points then I'll do that.'  He added: 'I look at the results of all the clubs I've been at. I want them all to do well, but especially Tottenham after the start they've had.  'I think everyone wants them to do well. They're a big club with some fantastic players. Obviously I want them to do well - after Saturday.'  Keane scored 107 goals in 253 appearances for Tottenham after a 7million transfer from Leeds in 2002.  Six years later he helped the Londoners to Carling Cup glory at Wembley - their first trophy in almost a decade.  'I am looking forward to going back,' said the 28-year-old. 'I was at the club for six years and had a fantastic time. Everyone was brilliant to me: the fans, the staff and the players.  'There's no doubt that they were six of my best footballing years, so it will be great to go back and see a few old faces and the fans.  'I'd like to think I'd get a good reception. I did a good job there, scored a lot of goals and the fans could see that every time I put the jersey on I gave 110 per cent. We won the Carling Cup last year so hopefully it'll be good but, if it's not, what can you do?  'I am going there as a Liverpool player to win and get three points - that's the nature of football these days.'  Today's tea-time clash is hardly a typical top versus bottom encounter, with new boss Harry Redknapp instilling a new spirit down at White Hart Lane.  This was witnessed at the Emirates on Wednesday when two injury-time goals earned Spurs a 4-4 draw in the north London derby.  Asked if this was a bad time to be playing Tottenham, Keane said: 'I don't know if there is ever a good time to be playing Spurs. They are a good side, there's no question about it.  'They had quality players already and brought some more in during the summer. They are a good team and White Hart Lane is always a tough place to go. I know from playing there myself that teams don't like to go there because Tottenham like to play football and on their day they can beat anyone.'  
