Gary Ablett was left to rue two costly defensive mistakes as Liverpool Reserves went down to a 2-1 defeat against Manchester City last night It means the second string have now won just one of their first five Barclays Premier Reserve League North games and the Reds coach admits they paid the price for some poor defending. 'We gave away two soft goals,' Ablett told Liverpoolfc.tv. 'We gave a bit more in our performance, that was pleasing, but we didn't show enough quality in the final third to get the equaliser or indeed go on and win it. 'From our point of view the goals were lapses in concentration. The first one was a poor clearance and the second came after we'd just got back into it with a great goal from Nabil (El Zhar). 'We fell asleep and although  made a good save, Benjani was there to slip it into an empty net - it was disappointing. 'We are making a lot of mistakes at the moment but that's the learning curve. We need to learn from these mistakes, which I'm sure we will do.' Despite pushing for an equaliser in the second-half the Reds rarely looked like pulling level and Ablett conceded they were lacking a cutting edge up front. 'We are low in confidence in front of the goal at the moment,' he said. 'Jordy (Brouwer) had a great chance but snatched at it. We just need to keep going and believe we can put it right. 'We felt the game was there to be won but we didn't get going in the second half. We didn't have enough quality in the final third and they were always a threat on the break.' The Reds now have a two week break before their next game at home to Wigan Athletic and Ablett revealed they will play a friendly match in between, as his side look to boost their morale. 'We have a friendly game next Monday at Portsmouth,' he said. 'It's a chance to play at Fratton Park on a Premier League ground. 'Hopefully that will lift the players. The more games we play the better and the more chance to turn our confidence around. 'We know we haven't achieved the levels of performance that we did last year. Having said that we haven't been outclassed either and we've only lost by the odd goal. 'Hopefully our luck will change.'
