       http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business...ses-872155.html     QUOTE    Those who bought shares last year won&amp;#039;t be surprised, amid the economic turmoil, to find they have lost money on paper. But now even people who invested in the stock market a decade ago are looking at a loss.  The investment optimists insist equities always come right in the long run, but when shares are below water after 10 years, how long does long have to be?    Most people who bought an individual savings account, contributed to their pension fund or purchased shares directly in 1998 have made no money at all on their investment. And the pain will continue into the next decade unless the bear market turns sharply into a new bull run  and no one is forecasting that. Even if share prices were to fall no further, they would still not be showing any capital gain by the time the Olympics open in London in 2012.   Bob Yerbury, chief executive of fund manager Invesco Perpetual, concedes: &amp;amp;quot;We think about long-term normally being three to five years. Ten years is a long time not to make a profit.&amp;amp;quot;  The last time the stock market failed to show any gain over a decade was when the 1974 crash left shares below 1960s levels and prompted small shareholders to abandon direct equity investment.  The privatisations and demutualisations of the 1980s and 1990s brought private investors back to the market, but even now many of those stocks are below their issue price  including British Energy and the former building societies Bradford &amp;amp;amp; Bingley and the Halifax, now HBOS.  The recent steep fall in the blue-chip FTSE 100 has taken it beneath its level a decade ago. Bank shares have dragged down the index, with Royal Bank of Scotland losing nearly 40 per cent of its 1998 value and Barclays almost 50 per cent.  But many companies less directly affected by the credit crisis have lost money for their investors too. United Utilities shares are down nearly 20 per cent and GlaxoSmithKline has fallen by 35 per cent. Marks &amp;amp;amp; Spencer has lost 60 per cent of its value and Kingfisher 75 per cent. BT shares have halved.   The Wolseley builders&amp;#039; merchant has just moved into negative territory;  it once provided a 250 per cent profit for people who bought in 1998.   There have been gainers during the period too, with drinks group Diageo up 12 per cent, Cadbury Schweppes nearly 30 per cent higher and a profit of almost 25 per cent on Associated British Foods. But shares need to have increased by 20 per cent just to have kept pace with inflation over 10 years.   Shares in the household products giant Reckitt Benckiser have doubled, British American Tobacco has put on 150 per cent and mining groups have soared, with Rio Tinto up 600 per cent.  But oil companies have not provided high profits despite the rising crude price: Shell shares are almost back at 1998&amp;#039;s level.  In fact, investors holding a range of blue-chip stocks for the past decade have lost even more than the fall in the FTSE 100. Dixons, Telewest and GEC were in the index in 1998, for instance, but were ejected as their market value fell.  A decade ago, though, the market was rising rapidly on the back of the dot-com boom, with the FTSE peaking at 6,930 at the end of 1999. With shares now falling, that means the 10-year deficit will increase steeply for at least the next 18 months.      Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at stockbroker Brewin Dolphin, still thinks shares are a good long-term investment, but admits: &amp;amp;quot;It depends how distant your long-term really is. Ten years ought to be long-term.    &amp;amp;quot;     So what is the long term ultimately?  10 years 20 years 30 years 40 years  As with always timing is everything but if you&amp;#039;ve invested in this for your pension surely each individual accounts need managing according to that persons needs, which at a institutional level is impossible.  The market will provide mantra appears to be hollow and empty.  Perhaps that&amp;#039;s all the market can provide.  You need luck for it to provide ie retire just as the boom market is about to peak.  Will we be looking at around 2020 before share prices are back to last years levels or could they recover faster than that in a big bullsh*t run?                               
