 HONG KONG (Reuters) - The U.S. dollar rose to a 1-month high against the yen on Monday on easing fears about the world's largest economy, and Asian stocks were mixed as financial sector uncertainty lingered ahead of a slew of company earnings.Oil prices below $124 a barrel provided some comfort on global economic growth prospects, but a profit warning from Australia's third-biggest bank, which forecast more than $1 billion in write-downs, cast a pall on the region.Japan's Nikkei share average  rose 0.5 percent after U.S. economic data spurred hopes for the country's enfeebled export sector.However, Honda Motor Co shares  fell 3.2 percent and slowed the index's advance after the auto maker cut its annual earnings outlook on Friday, leaving investors uneasy ahead of results this week from Sony Corp , Nintendo Co Ltd , Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group  and Mizuho Financial Group . 'Solid moves in U.S. stocks and a softer yen are supporting the market, but investors are finding it difficult to buy due to a large amount of uncertainty,' said Yutaka Miura, deputy manager of the equity information department at Shinko Securities in Tokyo.Outside Japan, shares in Asia-Pacific were down 0.5 percent, according to an MSCI index . Australia's benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index  slid 1.3 percent, led by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group , whose shares slumped as much as 13 percent after it said its earnings per share would likely fall as much as 25 percent because of costs associated with bad loans.Hong Kong's Hang Seng  was largely unchanged, with gains in Sinopec Corp  tempered by a decline in HSBC . Taiwan's markets were closed due to a typhoon.The U.S. dollar extended a small rally from last week and climbed to the highest against the yen in a month, above 108 yen. It was bolstered by data showing U.S. consumer sentiment bounced from a 28-year low, a surprise rise in business investment and new home sales that were not as weak as expected.The euro was relatively steady at $1.5690.After last week, when oil prices logged the largest decline since December 2004, investors pulled money out of defensive choices and took a chance on some beat-down areas. 'With oil prices dropping towards $130 a barrel and the US dollar showing signs of recovery, investors recovered a little of their risk appetite during the third week of July,' according to EPFR Global, a Boston-based research firm.For example, Asia ex-Japan equity funds had the first week of positive flows since mid-May and for global emerging market funds in more than seven months, said EPFR, which tracks $10 trillion in assets.In terms of global sectors, investors sold the commodity, financial, real estate and consumer goods sectors and put money into the healthcare/biotechnology, energy and technology sectors.
