 The global credit crunch deepened yesterday as  warned its annual profit could fall by as much as 25% and hiked its bad loan provisions, triggering a massive share sell-off in the country's financial services sector.In a scenario that may sound familiar to Canadians, the resource-heavy Australian economy has been flying high in recent years as skyrocketing commodity prices and booming real estate combined to boost growth across most sectors.But as in this country, the party may be coming to an end.ANZ, Australia's fourth-largest bank, said net earnings could fall by A$800-million ($783-million) after taking A$1.2-billion in provisions in the second half because of deteriorating credit conditions and a softening economy.News of the provisions -- totalling A$2.2-billion for the full year -- caused the shares to drop more than 10%, the biggest one-day decline in 21 years.ANZ's troubles come after National Australia Bank surprised the market on Friday with loan-loss provisions of A$830-million for collateralized debt obligations linked to U. S. subprime mortgages.Unlike National Australia Bank, ANZ's problems are mostly homegrown, caused by deterioration in the country's housing market -- which, like Canada's, is taking a breather after several years of dramatic growth -- along with a weakening economy.Since NAB's Friday announcement, Australia's five largest banks have together surrendered more than A$27-billion of market value.In a bid to calm the waters, Wayne Swan, the country's treasurer, said Australia's banks are healthy compared with some of their peers in the United States and Europe, though not immune to the turmoil afflicting global markets. 'If there was any country in the world that had the capacity to withstand the full force of [the credit crisis], particularly on international financial markets, it is this country,' Mr. Swan told the Canberra Times.Thanks to skyrocketing demand for coal, iron, copper and other metals, Australia has been powering ahead, its currency soaring against the U. S. dollar. But the widening fallout from the credit crisis has begun to weigh on economic growth worldwide.Australia is also feeling the heat from higher interest rates and fuel costs. Consumer confidence slumped to a 16-year low this month, according to Bloomberg News.The Canadian economy is also showing signs of stress, especially the banking sector, where the Big Five are scrambling to find shelter from the credit turmoil.Shares in Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the worst hit, have lost more than 40% of their value over the past 12 months.But like their Australian counterparts, Canadian banks have avoided the worst of the carnage thanks to their limited appetite for risky U. S. home loans. 'The Canadian banks look OK to me. There's really nothing I'm terribly concerned about,' said Mario Mendonca, an analyst at Genuity Capital Markets.Though investors have reason to be frustrated, the troubles at CIBC are nothing compared with the situation in the United States, where some of the biggest and most respected players have been forced to put themselves up for sale, Mr. Mendonca said.Last Friday, for instance, two U. S. regional banks, the First National Bank of Nevada and First Heritage Bank NA, were forced to shut their doors after being caught in the credit squeeze.Even though it has escaped the full force of the crisis, Canada faces the threat of secondary exposure. 'A slowdown in the U. S. economy will result in a slowdown in the Canadian economy,' Mr. Mendonca said.
