 SYDNEY (AFP) - The Australian government insisted Monday that the country's banks were sound after news that major lender ANZ had increased provisions for bad debts led to a plunge in bank stocks. Treasurer Wayne Swan called a press conference after shares in ANZ, the country's third-largest lender, fell over 10 percent following its trading update Monday, which also warned annual profit could fall by 25 percent. The news led to a slide in other major bank stocks too, with Swan saying Australia was 'not immune from developments' on global markets, which have been hit by a credit crunch and slowing world growth after a US financial crisis. But Swan said he did not believe there was more bad news to come after regulators told him the country's banks had made full disclosure of their exposure to bad debt. 'We shouldn't lose sight of the fact we do have a strong, well-regulated banking sector capable of withstanding the fall-out from international developments,' he said. ANZ shares were down 10.14 percent by midday after it announced a 1.2-billion-Australian-dollar (1.1-billion-US) second-half provision for losses, against 980 million dollars in the first half. Other banks were also down, with Commonwealth losing 4.74 percent and National Australia Bank (NAB) 2.75 percent after clawing back steeper losses from earlier in the session. NAB on Friday had announced an extra 830 million dollars in losses from exposure to the US mortgage market, in addition to a charge of 181 million dollars that the nation's second biggest bank had taken previously. ANZ said its underlying business was still solid but that it faced global credit problems, a weak New Zealand economy and a softening Australian economy. Chief executive Mike Smith said ANZ expected a cash profit of more than three billion dollars in 2008, bit added in a conference call that having to announce the provisions was 'beyond disappointing.' 'No chief executive likes to announce news like this. Our shareholders, our staff and our customers have a right to expect better,' he said, ahead of the completion of a review of ANZ's securities lending business due next month. Swan said bank executives needed to take responsibility for their decisions. 'What we are dealing with here today in terms of the ANZ, and their chief executive has made it very clear, is that we are living with the consequences of some poor investment decisions that in fact go back years,' he said. Reserve Bank of Australia assistant governor Guy Debelle said banks had been taking steps to raise cash by issuing bonds as a precaution against further global credit market turmoil. 'The major banks are generally ahead on their funding plans,' he said. A default crisis in so-called 'subprime' -- or riskier -- US mortgages erupted last year. It led to huge losses in securities whose value is linked to the home loans, a global credit squeeze and slower world economic growth. Banks and financial institutions have announced write downs and credit losses to the tune of hundreds of billions of US dollars following the crisis. Experts say US and European banks have borne the brunt of the fallout, with the Asia-Pacific region less badly hit.
