 failing to sustain a brief push into positive territory, after the government reported gasoline supplies rose far more than expected.Light, sweet crude for September delivery was trading down 98 cents at $127.44 a barrel by early afternoon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after earlier swaying between modest gains and even bigger losses. The August contract expired Tuesday at $127.95.The Energy Department's Energy Information Administration reported that crude inventories fell by 1.6 million barrels in the week ended July 18, slightly less than analysts surveyed by energy research firm Platts predicted.Perhaps more significant was the 2.9 million barrel jump in gasoline stockpiles. Analysts had expected an increase of only half a million.The report also provided further evidence that cash-strapped Americans are cutting back on fuel. Demand for gasoline over the four weeks ended July 18 was 2.4 percent lower than a year earlier, averaging more than 9.3 million barrels a day.None of those figures gave traders, who have swung to selling mode in recent days, reason to turn sharply bullish just yet. 'The market appears heavily concentrated on demand numbers all of a sudden,' said Jim Ritterbusch, president of energy consultancy Ritterbusch and Associates. 'These numbers continue to show big-time depreciation in gasoline demand.' Oil prices came under further pressure as the dollar strengthened against the euro.The dollar's decline has been a major factor in oil's rapid ascent over the past year, as investors bought dollar-denominated crude contracts as a hedge against inflation and a weakening U.S. currency. But when the dollar strengthens, that currency-related buying can unwind.Meanwhile, concerns that Hurricane Dolly might affect U.S. oil and natural gas platforms in the Gulf of Mexico dwindled as the storm neared the Texas/Mexico border. 'Clearly, there's not a lot of price-supporting news in the market, and what was there has been diminished now with Hurricane Dolly,' said Mark Pervan, a senior commodities strategist with ANZ Bank in Melbourne. 'This market's still fundamentally quite strong - it's just that we've seen prices coming off from over-inflated levels. The market's letting steam out,' Pervan said. 'There's genuine reason to be taking profits in this market with the weak U.S. demand numbers.' Until recently, traders used almost any perceived threat to supply as a reason to push prices higher. No longer. Oil prices, which marched to a new high above $147 a barrel less than two weeks ago, have now fallen in six of the last seven sessions.A threat by Nigeria's main militant group Wednesday to destroy major pipelines in the oil exporting country within 30 days did little to slow crude's decline. The group said in an e-mail statement it had not been part of an alleged $12 million payment to militants to protect pipelines.Analyst and trader Stephen Schork said liquidity problems at oil and asphalt transportation and storage provider SemGroup LP may have helped trigger the recent sell-off in crude. At least four subsidiaries of the financially troubled company filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 bankruptcy rules in Delaware federal court Tuesday following a series of bad bets on oil futures contracts. 'Now the only question is are there more 'SemGroups' lurking in the shadows?' Schork said. At the gas pump, prices continued to decline. A gallon of regular dropped more than a penny to an average of $4.042 nationwide, according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express (nyse: WXS - news - people ). Diesel slipped 0.6 cent to $4.802.In other Nymex trading, heating oil futures lost almost 5 cents to trade at $3.6289 a gallon, while gasoline futures shed 5.61 cents to $3.0909 a gallon. Natural gas prices rose more than 15 cents to $10.225 per 1,000 cubic feet.September Brent crude fell $1.22 to $128.33 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange in London.Associated Press Writer Gillian Wong contributed to this report from Singapore.
