 THE Australian dollar weakened in Asian trading yesterday, knocked lower by broad strength in the greenback after the US Independence Day holiday.Richard Grace, chief currency strategist at the Commonwealth Bank, said the Australian dollar still retained some strength against most other crosses. 'This is not a story about a weak Australian dollar. It is solely a story of a stronger US dollar,' he said. Mr Grace expects the US dollar to 'grind higher' in the near term, especially against the euro amid evidence of a downturn in European economies. The European Central Bank left markets guessing last week about its medium-term intentions for monetary policy. The ECB's ambivalence will work against the euro, Mr Grace said. Westpac currency strategist Robert Rennie said the US dollar's strength looked 'overdone' but could still extend into European trading. At the close, the Australian dollar was quoted at US96c, down from US96.2c on Friday. It was at Y103.02, up from Y102.875. Local economic reports yesterday pointed to further weakness in the Australian economy. Economists say Australia's job market has entered a downturn, with total job advertising falling 3 per cent in June from May, its largest decline since November 2006. It follows a fall in May. The ANZ Bank job advertisements survey yesterday also showed the number of internet job ads fell 2.9 per cent in June from May, while the number of newspaper job ads fell 3.5 per cent in the same period. A weak jobs market will work to further reduce market expectations of a near-term interest rate rise by the Reserve Bank of Australia. The RBA meets next in early August, at which time it will have second-quarter inflation data to consider. Most economists expect the bank to hold rates steady until later in the year, as evidence of a sharp slowdown in the economy continues to mount. Its official cash rate target now stands at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent. Australian government bonds rallied yesterday as shaky equity markets continued to drive investors toward the safety of sovereign bonds. But low volumes were recorded as investors awaited the release on Thursday of official June employment data. Economists expect a further 7500 jobs to be created in June, but a contraction in employment would help cement the view that the RBA has interest rates on hold. Commonwealth Bank of Australia interest rate strategist Jarrod Kerr said risk aversion, stemming from a weak equity market, sustained a flight to quality. The 90-day bank bill rate closed at 7.76 per cent, down from Friday's close of 7.767 per cent, while the 180-day bank bill rate was at 7.94 per cent, down from Friday's close of 7.948. Dow Jones Newswires; Additional reporting: AAP 
