Australia is probably already in recession with no fast recovery in sight, according to National Australia Bank. 'It seems likely that Australia effectively entered recession in late 2008,' NAB group chief economist Alan Oster said in a statement, based on a string of weak readings in the NAB business conditions survey in the last quarter of 2008  The NAB business conditions shrank to minus-20 in February, the lowest since June of 1992, when the nation was last in recession. February's contraction follows a minus-11 reading in January, and brings to the number of consecutive monthly contractions to eight.  NAB is forecasting a 'moderate recession' in 2009 with the economy shrinking by 1% in 2009, as opposed to the 'mild recession' with a .25% decline it had flagged earlier. 'It needs to be stressed that we see no fast recovery in Australian activity,' Mr Oster said. 'That is, the path of growth is more U than V shaped - with recovery not really getting underway till 2010.' Jobs  Within the business conditions survey, the employment sub-index fell further to minus-27 in February from minus-17 in the previous two months dropped, NAB said. 'The survey readings on employment are lower than any reading since June 1991 and imply considerable job shedding,' the report said. ANZ Bank reported today a 10.4% drop in job advertisements in February, the largest monthly fall since 1999.   The official unemployment figure of 4.8% in January is expected to rise in coming months. NAB said it expects the jobless rate to rise to 7.5% in the second half of 2010.   Analysts expect the February unemployment rate, to be released Thursday, to climb to 5%.   In addition to the fraying employment market, NAB said the 'forward orders situation is increasingly a concern.' 'After some stabilising in January, forward orders resumed their previous weakening pattern.' Forward orders contracted to minus-27 index points, levels not seen since June of 1991, the bank said. 'By industry, forward orders have fallen to recessionary levels,' the bank said, noting the manufacturing sub-index shrivelled to minus-47, mining to minus-47, and construction to minus-36, with residential construction nosediving to minus-39 index points. 'As a result the relationship between key measures in the Business Survey - such as business conditions and forward orders point to flat to negative domestic demand in the final quarter of 2008 and worse outcomes for the first quarter of 2008.' Confidence  Business confidence improved in February, helped by retailers' anticipation of further Government stimulus packages.  The overall gauge of sentiment, however, remained in negative territory where it has been since January of last year.  Companies' confidence contracted to minus-22 index points last month, a gain from the minus-32 seen in January, when it hit a record low in its 12-year history. 'While business confidence improved in February that is very much driven from improved expectations in the retail and wholesale sectors,' said Mr Oster. 'In turn, those sectors are the ones most likely to benefit from the next round of Government cash handouts.' 'It was also noticeable that improved expectations were not driven by better activity levels in February.' czappone@fairfax.com.au
