March 6  The New Zealand dollar slid back below 50 U.S. cents after global equity markets tumbled on growing fears some major financial institutions may be unable to service long-term debt and China doused talk that it would increase spending. Moodys Investors Service cut JPMorgan Chase &amp; Cos credit rating outlook to 'negative from 'stable, and will review the long-term debt ratings of Wells Fargo and Bank of America, the three largest U.S. banks, amid concerns rising costs of credit may increase the capital ratio. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao quashed speculation that China was increasing its fiscal stimulus plan, saying the nations 8% target for economic growth this year was achievable. Global stocks slumped on the negative outlook, with the German DAX 30 tumbling 5% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average slipping 3.4%.   Our currency continues to trade on U.S. equities, which had a pretty bad day, and this fell through to the kiwi as it slid back below 50 U.S. cents, said Khoon Goh, senior markets economist at ANZ National Bank. The New Zealand dollars lack of liquidity meant it held up reasonably well in the face of poor investor sentiment, he said.   The kiwi fell to 49.90 U.S. from 50.19 cents yesterday, and dropped to 49.06 yen from 49.86 yen. It rose to 78.23 Australian cents from 77.99 cents yesterday, and declined to 39.76 euro cents from 39.86 cents.   The currency may trade between 49.50 U.S. cents and 50.50 cents today as it continues to take its lead from overseas news, Goh said. The next big local event that will impact on the kiwi will be the central banks monetary policy review next week, where its likely Governor Alan Bollard will slash the official cash rate 50 basis points to 3%, a new record low.   The move would take New Zealands benchmark rate below Australias, adding downward pressure to the New Zealand-Australian dollar cross. The Reserve Bank of Australia held interest rates at 3.25% when it reviewed them last week. New Zealands Treasury has forecast the domestic recession extended into the fifth quarter, and when the nations fourth-quarter gross domestic product figure is released at the end of this month, its likely to increase the pessimistic outlook. Bearing in mind the horrible results of our major partners, it could be a real shocker, Goh said. 
