NEW Zealand house sales rose to a 12-month high last month, adding to signs that low interest rates and falling prices will help the property market recover from record lows.  A total of 5228 homes were sold last month, the most since February last year, according to a report from the Auckland-based Real Estate Institute of New Zealand. Sales rose from a record low 3706 in January.   Variable home-loan interest rates are at a seven-year low because Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard has cut borrowing costs by 4.75 percentage points since July to kick-start the economy. Although buoyed by cheaper debt and falling house prices, consumers may need more convincing to buy houses amid a prolonged recession and rising unemployment, economists said. 'While large declines in the mortgage rate have prevented housing demand falling further, the level of house sales remains weak,' ASB Bank economist Jane Turner said. 'Current economic uncertainties and reduced job security will weigh on investment decisions and will continue to curb interest in the housing market despite below average mortgage rates.' ASB Bank expects New Zealand's jobless rate will rise to a 13-year high of 8 per cent this year as a global recession curbs exports and stalls business investment. The nation's economy has been in a recession since the first quarter last year.   Ms Turner said the rise in sales from January largely reflected a seasonal bounce from a month when many people were on holiday and transactions were traditionally low. Housing demand was yet to make a convincing recovery, she said.   It took 62 days to complete the median house sale, up from 50 days a year earlier and 59 days in January, which suggested prospective buyers were able to take their time in an over-supplied market, she said.   Institute president Mike Elford said: 'While we must still take a cautious approach, the figures seem to indicate that lower interest rates are having a positive impact on the market. 'The bounce back from the horrific January figures is welcome, but we must still acknowledge we're dealing with light volumes compared with recent years.' Home sales fell 17.7 per cent from a year earlier. That is the smallest annual decline since July 2007.   The median house price rose to $NZ330,000 ($257,000) from $NZ325,000 in January and $NZ328,500 in December.   Prices fell 2.2 per cent from a year earlier.   Bloomberg 
