(adds business conditions data)   By James Glynn  Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES   SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Australia's job market weakened sharply in February as the global financial crisis induced a virtual hiring freeze and sent business conditions plunging to their worst levels in almost 17 years.  Separate surveys of the economy in February by major banks suggest unemployment is set to rise faster than expected in 2009 as businesses struggle for survival in an economy now in its first recession in almost two decades.  Total job advertisements fell a record 10.4% in seasonally adjusted terms in February from January, the 10th consecutive monthly drop in ANZ Bank's survey. Newspaper advertising plunged 25.2% in February.  Amid scant evidence that government and central bank stimulus packages have shielded the economy from the international downturn, economists expect the Reserve Bank of Australia to come off the sidelines to cut interest rates further in April. 'There is certainly a lot of pressure for them to cut further,' said Macquarie Bank senior economist Brian Redican. According to a Dow Jones Newswires survey Friday, the RBA will cut the official cash rate another 50 basis points next month, having paused in March.  The dire economic news comes less than a week after data showing the economy contracted for the first time in eight years in the fourth quarter of 2008, surprising many with the speed at which it shifted into reverse gear.  Economists fear the ANZ data are a precursor to news Thursday that up to 20, 000 Australians lost their jobs February.  Earlier Tuesday, the National Australia Bank said business conditions slumped in February as forward orders and employment indicators continued a steep decline.  Business conditions fell 9 points to an index reading of -20 points, the lowest level since June 1992, NAB said.  The only bright spot in February was a rise in business confidence, bolstered by a 100 basis point interest rate cut at the start of the month and some buoyancy in retail sales.  Business confidence rose 10 points in February from January to -22 index points, NAB said.  The data point to a harsh economic contraction for the economy in the first quarter of 2009.  The hiring downturn is likely to last throughout 2009, with little prospect of a meaningful recovery in the economy before 2010, said Warren Hogan, head of economics at ANZ Bank.  ANZ now expects the unemployment rate to reach 6.5% by the end of 2009 and 7.5% by mid-2010. Unemployment stood at 4.8% in January, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 'The risks to our forecasts are for higher unemployment,' Hogan said. 'The Australian economy entered recession in late 2008 and remains in recession in early 2009.' The next phase of the economic downturn is likely to include sharply downgraded forecasts for economic growth by both the RBA and the government.  Alan Oster, NAB's chief economist, said there is little to suggest that activity levels may be starting to bottom out, with continued declines in mining and manufacturing notable in February.  NAB lowered its forecast for GDP in 2009 to a 1% fall from a previous forecast of a 0.25% fall.   -By James Glynn; Dow Jones Newswires; 612-8235-2955; james.glynn@dowjones.com (Samuel Holmes also contributed to this article) 
