Article from: PerthNow  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Grahame Armstrong  WEST Australians are not sure whether to buy it - the economic crisis that is.  A new survey shows that while West Australians are more cautious about how they spend their money, their incomes and level of spending money have not changed.  Most, up to 68 per cent, have resorted to buying only essentials and looking for specials or cheaper alternatives. But 43 per cent say the economic crisis has made no difference to their spending habits.  The Newspoll survey, a weighted sample of 1000 respondents, conducted for The Sunday Times, found 62 per cent of West Australians were more cautious about spending money.  It found confidence, rather than actual economic circumstance, was the real issue.  While 60 per cent said the crisis had made no difference to their income, 76 per cent were watching their pennies by shopping for specials and cheaper products or buying only what was necessary.  Forty one per cent said they had postponed or decided against a major purchase, such as a house or car. Twenty per cent went ahead with a major purchase but bought a cheaper version, with 39 per cent not making a major purchase.  Thirty nine per cent of West Australians who were planning on buying a house or new car before the downturn still intended to go ahead with their plans this year.  Forty five per cent said they had been spending less since the economic downturn while 43 per cent said it had made no difference.  More than half also said the crisis had not affected how much they save, although 26 per cent were putting more money into paying off debts such as credit cards and mortgages.  But there is evidence that West Australians are spending less on going out, especially eating at restaurants and entertainment. But nearly 60 per cent said the crisis had made no difference to what they spend on cigarettes, alcohol and gambling.  BankWest economist Alan Langford said because only 28 per cent of respondents said their finances had been damaged in the economic downturn suggested the real impact of the global recession had yet to hit home in WA.  ''But the hefty majority of 62 per cent that say they have become more careful in spending money very likely reflects concerns about job security and the erosion of household wealth in the face of the darkening global economic backdrop,'' Mr Langford said.  Chamber of Commerce and Industry of WA Chief Executive James Pearson said the Newspoll showed Western Australians were adapting to the changing economic conditions.  ''Even though they have not experienced any change in their income, the data also shows a fall in confidence amongst households,'' Mr Pearson said.  ''This uncertainty has prompted consumers to re-assess their spending habits, either cutting back on so called 'discretionary' or 'luxury' purchases, or being more cautious with their money.''  
