 (RTTNews) - Thursday in Asia, the New Zealand dollar jumped to a 15-day high against the currencies of US and Australia after the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard signaled he may slow the pace of interest-rate cuts.  As expected, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand trimmed its benchmark interest rate by 50bps to an all time low of 3% to help steer the economy out of its worst recession in more than 30 years.  In a statement accompanying the rate announcement, RBNZ's Governor Alan Bollard said, 'As economic activity troughs, we expect the rapid easing of monetary policy to slow. Any future cuts will be much smaller than observed recently.' 'While monetary and fiscal policy responses in many countries have been substantial, we still expect the adverse economic forces generated by the crisis to remain dominant throughout 2009,' he said. The timing and extent of global recovery remain highly uncertain.' 'The combined effects of a weakening domestic housing market and the global financial and economic crisis are weighing heavily on the economy,' Bollard said. Interest rates are 'very stimulatory' and should help the economy to start growing in the third quarter, he said.  Record-low rates haven't yet bolstered consumer spending or the housing market, while exports are being buffeted by a global recession that the World Bank says will be the worst since World War II.  New Zealand's economy is in its fifth quarter of recession amid a deepening global downturn that has curbed exports and business investment, the central bank said today. The recession will probably extend into a sixth quarter, the longest since 1977 when the economy shrank for eight quarters, the bank said. In the face of a global recession, exports are slowing, companies are firing workers and consumers have cut spending.  New Zealand's business confidence was near a record low in February with 21 percent of firms saying profits will fall. Commodity prices plunged 31 percent in February from a year earlier, curbing exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy.  The unemployment rate could rise to an 11-year high of 6.8 percent by early 2010 from 4.6 percent at the end of 2008, Bollard forecast today. Some economists say the jobless rate could reach 8 percent. Bollard said companies are likely to reduce working hours rather than fire workers.  Today's rate cut brings the total reduction in the OCR to 525 basis points since the round of cuts began more than six months ago and took the official cash rate to its lowest level since March 1999. It peaked in July last year at 8.25 percent.  Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank of Australia decided to keep its key rates steady at 3.25 percent, pinning its hopes on stimulus already in place to help the country avoid the depths of recession seen elsewhere.  Australia is New Zealand's biggest trading partner. Unlike neighboring Australia, which was only hit with its first economic contraction in eight years last quarter, New Zealand was in recession in the first three quarters of 2008. Last time, New Zealand suffered such a long period of economic contraction was in 1997/98 following the Asian financial crisis and drought.  The NZ dollar, which closed yesterday's trading at 0.5135 against the US currency strengthened to 0.5148 during early Asian deals on Thursday. This set the highest point for the kiwi since February 25. If the kiwi-greenback pair moves up further, it may find resistance around the 0.519 level.  The New Zealand dollar reversed direction against the greenback after it fell to a 6 1/2 -year low of 0.49 on March 04. Since then, the kiwi-greenback pair has gained 5%.  In Asian trading on Thursday, the New Zealand dollar rose to a 15-day high of 1.2635 against the Aussie. The next upside target level for the kiwi is seen at 1.248. At yesterday's close, the aussie-kiwi pair was quoted at 1.2714.  The Aussie declined today as Australia's jobless rate rose to its highest level in four years in February as companies fired the largest number of full-time workers in almost two decades, adding to signs the economy is in a recession. The unemployment rate increased to 5.2 percent from 4.8 percent in January, the statistics bureau said. The unemployment rate surged more than analysts' expectations of a 5.0% increase.  The deepening global recession is eroding demand for resources from Australia, the world's biggest shipper of coal and iron ore, and forcing mining companies to sack workers and cut costs. The central bank expects the jobless rate will 'increase materially over the year ahead' as falling prices for resources trigger a 20 percent drop in earnings from exports.  The kiwi plunged to a 7-month low of 1.2950 against the aussie on March 03 as the Reserve Bank of Australia unexpectedly left the nation's benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 45-year low of 3.25% and the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research said New Zealand's recovery from the recession may not be seen until around 2012.  However, the NZ dollar bounced back thereafter and it has appreciated 2% thus far.  Against the European currency, the New Zealand dollar surged to a 1-week high of 2.4951 during Asian deals on Thursday. This may be compared to yesterday's close of 2.4998. On the upside, 2.488 is seen as the next target level for the kiwi.  The New Zealand currency has advanced 3% against the euro since reaching a 5-week low of 2.5671 earlier this week.  The New Zealand dollar that strengthened against the yen in early Thursday Asian trading lost ground after hitting a 1-week high of 50.13 at 6:20 pm ET. Currently, the kiwi-yen pair is worth 49.30, down from Wednesday's close of 49.93. The near term support level for the kiwi is seen at 48.7.  The yen recovered from a 1-week low against the kiwi as a report showed that Japan's economy shrank 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, revised from an initial drop of 3.3 percent but still the sharpest contraction since 1974. On an annualized basis, real GDP was down a revised 12.1% versus the preliminary report of -12.7%.  Investors now look forward to the busy European session, in which the French February CPI, Italian final fourth quarter GDP, Euro-zone January PPI and the German January industrial production reports are expected.  Turning to the US, all eyes will be on the retail sales report, which has been slated for release at 8:30 am ET. Economists estimate a 0.5% decline in the retail sales for February.  At the same time, the Labor Department is due to release its weekly jobless claims report.  The Commerce Department is scheduled to release its business inventories report for January at 10 am ET. The report is expected to show a 1% decline in business inventories for the month.
