A flood of complaints about banks, including fees charged for breaking fixed-term loans, has forced the Banking Ombudsman to form a waiting list.  Many people are investigating early repayment of fixed-term home loans after a fall in interest rates of up to 4 percentage points since last July.  Those rates could fall further after the Reserve Bank's expected cuts to the official cash rate (OCR) today by between 50 basis points and 100 basis points (1 percentage point).  The OCR, currently at an historically low 3.5 per cent, influences floating and fixed rates for home loans.  The Ombudsman is handling about 250 complaints from people in dispute with banks, compared with 91 at the same time last year.  Complaints include bank fees for breaking fixed-term loans, a bank pushing investment in two frozen ING funds and complaints related to debt.  'You always get an increase in complaints when times are hard,' Banking Ombudsman Liz Brown said.  The office had never seen such a rapid increase, she said.  Complaints over break fees had poured in since November.  She had reluctantly introduced a waiting list on which people would be placed for up to two weeks before being allocated to an investigator. If people waited any longer than that, she would consider delaying other parts of the process to get the urgent complaints completed.  Complainants have to take their gripes first to the bank and, if unsuccessful, to the Ombudsman.  Brown said if break-fee complaints were over how the bank calculated the break fee, they were referred to the Commerce Commission, which dealt with those issues under the Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act.  That act required the break fees to be reasonable, and that meant in line with the cost to the bank of early repayment of a fixed-term loan.  Brown said a calculation in the act was used by ASB Bank, TSB Bank and SBS Bank.  The BNZ calculated its loss based on retail interest rates, and Kiwibank and Westpac calculated their break fees based on wholesale interest rates, which was a more difficult calculation and tended to give higher break fees, Brown said.  Some banks were not forthcoming on how they calculated the break fees when asked by customers.  Others customers said the banks had misled them over the size of the break fees and that the amount they ended up paying was much higher than the 'indicative' amount the bank quoted.  The expected OCR cut today comes as Prime Minister John Key is turning on the optimism over the economy, pointing to 'glimmers of light' this week.  For the first time since the recession struck last year, Key said yesterday that he believed there was a chance New Zealand was bottoming out of the economic mire.  'We're starting to see some signs of recovery. Lamb prices are up, the exchange rate is competitive, Citibank has reported a profit [in the United States],' Key said. 'It's not all doom and gloom.'  Citibank reported a two-month profit yesterday, the first of any US company on the stock exchange this year. Wall Street rebounded 5 per cent on the news.  Key said while he was not pretending the recession was over, recent house-price data, commodity prices, and other economic indicators were showing the first signs of a lift.  'There are some pockets of the economy that are starting to show some really interesting signs. We've got interest rates coming down and also possibly again tomorrow [today].  'You've got a very competitive exchange rate. There are certain areas where commodity prices are rebounding.'  Meanwhile, banks say overwhelming numbers of Kiwis have moved away from fixed to floating interest-rate loans. Leading the way is Kiwibank.  Spokesman Bruce Thompson said a year ago most borrowers about 85 per cent were on fixed loans. Now the tables have turned, with 85 per cent of borrowers opting for a floating rate.  Some economists are recommending that borrowers wait until mid-year before fixing their mortgages for five years with many picking that a five-year fixed rate of about 5.5 per cent will emerge.  Others say the longer-term fixed rates may have already reached the bottom of the cycle.  
