Interest rate cuts are guaranteed this week  the only question is how much Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard will cut the official cash rate by.  Economists are divided on this one  the lowest are picking a 0.5% cut, the top and is 1%, with some picking Dr Bollard will split the difference at 0.75%.  The money market seems to be heading for the top end, with current prices running at around a 0.8% cut.  What will be of note will be the central banks updated economic forecasts. Dr Bollard was notably downbeat at the recent Job Summit and it is likely those comments reflected not only his recent tour of the worlds financial capitals but also the banks latest forecasting work.  The latest ANZ National Bank business confidence survey showed further slippage in firms intentions for the coming year.  As Westpac chief economist Brendan ODonovan put it, New Zealand has already had its own domestically generated recession since the beginning of 2008: now the global downturn is here.  For New Zealand firms, hoarding their labour pool and switching staff to under-staffed areas has now reached its limit, and businesses are now looking at ways to make cutbacks.  Firms are still borrowing  and are able to borrow  money for investment, Dr Bollard told Parliaments finance and expenditure select committee this week.  This backs up a survey by Business New Zealand which showed an overwhelming proportion  92% - of New Zealand firms are still having no trouble sourcing credit lines.  Whether that credit is for investment and expansion is another issue. Given the investment intentions flagged in the ANZ National Bank survey were poor  in fact at a record low  that suggests the borrowing is to keep cashflow afloat rather than for expansion.  For this weeks announcement, says ANZ Bank chief economist Cameron Bagrie, expects a 0.75% cut and for the door to be left open for more. We will be looking for any guidance on how long rates will remain low.  ASB Bank chief economist Nick Tuffley is picking a 1% cut, given the deterioration in global economic prospects coupled with ongoing signs of concreting domestic demand.  The Bank of New Zealands economics team is in the 0.75% camp, again citing global concerns more prominently then local ones.  Deutsche Banks New Zealand economist Darren Gibbs is picking 0.5% and says this is enough given other stimulus coming form tax cuts and government investment.  JP Morgan New Zealand economist Helen Kevans is at the 1% end, saying the dramatic droop in inflation gives the central bank room for such a cut in the face of the global slump, sagging domestic house prices, and the falling terms of trade.  UBS New Zealand economist Robin Clements is in the 0.5% camp.  
