By Emma Thelwell and Stuart Fagg, ninemsn Money   Nearly 54,000 Australians lost their full-time jobs last month, according to official labour force figures released today, prompting economists to predict a large interest rate cut next month.   The grim data was worse-than-expected, revealing that the unemployment rate climbed to 5.2 percent in February.   Economists are now predicting that the jobless rate could reach 9 percent by the end of 2010.   The consensus is moving towards a higher unemployment rate, said Besa Deda, chief economist at St George Bank.   She added that the surprise jump in the number of unemployed people could force the Reserve Bank of Australia to slash interest rates again when it meets next month.   Todays unemployment figures, combined with the recent slowing in economic growth, are increasing the pressure on the Reserve Bank to cut rates in April, she told ninemsn.   Slashing the cash rate by 50 basis points from 3.25 percent to 2.75 percentwould drag interest rates to a new low - under the record low of 2.89 percent in January 1960.  Analysts had forecast an unemployment rate of 5 percent, as companies cut back and the job market deteriorates amid the current global financial turmoil.   However, Craig James, chief economist at CommSec said the figures gave an unrealistic picture of trends in the labour market. 'Businesses are spooked by what is happening in the US and Europe and have cut back on hiring new workers,' he said. 'But businesses certainly aren't slashing and burning. Just six months ago the majority of businesses said that they were finding it hard to attract and retain staff. Those businesses won't let good staff go in a hurry.' Earlier this week, figures released by ANZ bank showed the number of newspaper job advertisments plunged by 55 percent in the past year and more than 25 percent in the past month alone.   Warren Hogan, head of Australian economics at ANZ, said the figures show that Australia is already in recession. 'Recent trends in job advertising are consistent with other indicators which suggest that the Australian economy entered recession in late 2008 and remains in recession in early 2009,' he said. 'The trends in job advertising in Australia suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate is likely.' According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, full-time employment decreased by 53,800 to 7,664,200 across the nation, while part-time employment grew by 55,600 to 3,146,200. 
