FINANCIAL markets were sold off yesterday as investors were presented with the worrying prospect that Australia was following the world into recession.  Official data showing the Australian economy unexpectedly shrank in the December quarter sent shares tumbling for the fourth straight day and the dollar down almost US1c to US63.29c. The benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 sank to its lowest level since August 12, 2003, after gross domestic product contracted by 0.5 per cent in the fourth quarter, compared with expectations for an increase of 0.2 per cent. It closed down 52.8 points, or 1.6 per cent, to 3166.4, after hitting a 5 1/2-year low of 3142.5.   Shares bounced off their intraday lows in the afternoon but remained in the red after Chinese manufacturing activity rose in February for the third consecutive month, adding to suggestions that Australia's biggest trading partner and the world's third-largest economy was turning the corner and strengthening. NAB Capital chief economist Rob Henderson said the 'dreadful' GDP figures showed that the Australian economy was already in recession, even though there had not been two consecutive quarters of contraction. 'Half a per cent down after 0.1 per cent growth in the previous quarter is an extended period of weak growth,' Mr Henderson said. 'By the US definition we would have a recession, so it's clear to me that Australia is already in recession. 'I don't think it will get much better until the fourth quarter.' ABN AMRO sales trader James Trude said investors were disappointed with the GDP figures, which showed that households had saved most of the rate cuts and the Rudd Government's cash handout in December.   CMC Markets senior dealer Dominic Vaughan said the GDP data reinforced the idea that Australia was heading for recession. 'So the market remained in negative territory after opening lower following a fall in the US overnight,' he said. 'The financials were heavily sold early but have gained some traction, although Commonwealth Bank and ANZ are down over 3 per cent and the two mining heavyweights -- Rio and BHP -- are both down as well,' Mr Vaughan added. 'Negative sentiment still weighs on this market across most sectors, and the GDP number reinforced that it is going to be another difficult six months for Australian companies.' GDP fell for the first time in eight years, dropping by a seasonally adjusted 0.5 per cent in the December quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said yesterday.   Southern Cross Equities director Charlie Aitken expects equity markets to remain fragile.   Dave Iron, director at ABN AMRO, said expectations of Australian economic recovery had been pushed out to 2010 at the earliest. He said he no longer expected the Australian share market to be resilient in the face of offshore declines. 'I thought for a long while that was happening, but the news in the last few days has just been consistently bearish,' Mr Iron said, adding that he saw 'every chance' of further weakness in global equity markets.   Southern Cross's Mr Aitken cut his BHP buying target to $23 from $25 because he believed the market was too optimistic on BHP's earnings.   Credit Suisse said that was also true of consensus earnings estimates of the share market overall. 
