  By Huang Xingwei   WELLINGTON, March 12 (Xinhua) -- New Zealand Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard on Thursday cut New Zealand's official interest rate to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, warning the timing and extent of global recovery remain 'highly uncertain.' The cut of 50 basis points in the official cash rate (OCR) took the overall reduction to 525 basis points in little more than six months as the global economy deteriorated rapidly.   In a statement, the central bank governor indicated that the days of big cuts to the OCR are now over. 'As economic activity troughs, we expect the rapid easing of monetary policy to slow. Any future cuts will be much smaller than observed recently,' he said. 'We do not expect to see in New Zealand the near-zero policy rates of some countries. New Zealand needs to retain competitiveness in the international capital markets,' he said. 'We will assess the need for further cuts in the OCR against emerging developments in the global and domestic economies and the responses to policy changes already in place,' Bollard added. Thursday's cut was large compared to the bank's pre-credit crunch standards. However, mortgage rates offered by banks are not expected to change significantly.   The Reserve Bank is 'increasingly irrelevant' when it comes to influencing retail interest rates, said Cameron Bagrie, the chief economist at New Zealand's largest bank, ANZ National.   The only rates that will move will be the floating rate, now ranging from 5.99 to 6.99 percent depending on the bank, and very-short-term rates - six months to one year. These rates should move by 'something approaching the amount of the cut,' said Bagrie. Changes to the official cash rate have a direct effect on the short-term money markets that drive floating and short-term fixed-mortgage rates.   But fixed rates will be determined, among other things, not by what the Reserve Bank does with the cash rate today, but what it indicates it may do over the next 12 to 24 months.   Analysts predict the Reserve Bank may start raising interest rates in early 2010 in response to early signs of economic recovery.   Bank of New Zealand chief economist Tony Alexander sounded a cautionary note earlier this week: 'With huge uncertainty continuing about the global economy, one must also recognize huge uncertainty with regard to exactly when and where interest rates bottom out this year.' Like most indicators, consensus forecasts for growth among New Zealand's trading partners have fallen off a cliff. Last month's survey of economists in those markets found they are expected to contract by a weighted average of 0.9 percent this year, a stark contrast to the 2.5 percent growth forecast as recently as September.   The New Zealand dollar, which firmed in trading ahead of the OCR announcement, rose to 51.17 U.S. cents within 15 minutes -- compared with 50.58 cents at 08:00 a.m. local time (2000 GMT).
