Dr Bollard cut New Zealand's OCR by 50 basis points today.  Related Links  Westpac drops credit card rates      Bollard at end of the rope  Relevant offers  Homeowners are not so far being offered much immediate relief on mortgage rates after the Reserve Bank this morning trimmed official rates from 3.5 per cent to a record low 3 per cent.  Only two banks - the ANZ and National Bank - have so far moved on mortgage rates, but their only significant changes have been to their floating rates.  Business and rural rates, which have been seen as lagging the falls in mortgage rates, have been in greater focus so far. ANZ, National and BNZ have all trimmed their rural and business lending rates by 0.5 per cent. Westpac has moved on credit card rates.  Economists had expected Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard to cut somewhere between half a percentage point and 1 percentage point.  The kiwi dollar continued to post steady gains against the major currencies in afternoon trading after the smaller than expected rate cut.  Against the greenback, the Kiwi was settled at US51.25c in the afternoon session, after breaking the US51.30 ceiling briefly. The New Zealand dollar was buying US50.58 prior to the OCR announcement.  The New Zealand dollar last traded at 78.89c against the Australian dollar, up from 77.97c Australian this morning.  The final size of the cut was, however, seen as being on the small side and was a mild surprise.  Perhaps because of this element of surprise, there were no quick moves on rates by the banks as there had been after the last official rate cut in January.  The ANZ and the National Bank both cut their floating mortgage rates to 6.45 per cent from 6.95 percent.  This is still, however, above the market leading 5.99 percent rate being offered by Kiwibank. But ANZ is also now offering a three-month fixed rate at 5.65 percent.  Both the ANZ and National Bank have also dropped their business and rural lending rates by 0.5 percent, matching an earlier move by the BNZ.  Westpac New Zealand is reducing the interest rate that applies to purchases on its standard and business credit cards by 0.5 percent to 19.45 percent. It will also lower the rate applied to purchases on its low rate credit card 0.55 percent to 12.95 percent. Today's lighter RBNZ cut, after a 150 basis point cut in January, followed the Reserve Bank of Australia's decision last week to hold that country's rates at 3.25 percent.  But while banks appeared busy still working out what their strategy should be, today's move may still help homeowners in coming weeks and months. According to Reserve Bank figures dating back to 1964 our mortgage rates are now approaching historic lows.  The average floating rate offered by banks was 5.7 percent during three months of 1964 and has not fallen as low since, having risen steadily until 1987 where they peaked at 20.5 percent.  The next closest low period was in 1999 in the aftermath of the Asian Financial Crisis, where the floating rate dipped to 6.4 percent.  As a result of Bollard's smaller than expected cut, economists are now predicting that the final bottom for interest rates might be 2.5 per cent by the middle of this year. Potentially therefore there may not be many more significant falls in mortgage rates.  The RBNZ has been cutting the Official Cash Rate in aggressive fashion since last July when the rate stood at 8.25 per cent.  Bollard has also been putting pressure on the banks to pass on the rate reductions to customers.  Today he turned his focus on to banks' lending to business. 'While credit growth is easing in line with the weak economy, we expect financial institutions to continue lending on sound business propositions, to support the recovery,' he said.  The central bank's action has been in an effort to breathe life into our economy, which has now been in recession since the start of 2008.  Most economists expect the recession will continue at least till the end of the current quarter.  Bollard said the policy changes by the RBNZ, together with the sizeable exchange rate depreciation, would act to support the New Zealand economy.  'Therefore, we expect to see activity troughing in the middle of this year and then gradually picking up thereafter.  'However, the scale of the global financial crisis is such that there is great uncertainty about future economic developments and there is a risk that the recovery may occur later and be more protracted than we anticipate.'  The RBNZ's efforts to get bank interest rates down have had an impact.  According to RBNZ figures for January the average floating mortgage rate for new customers was then 7.04 per cent compared with 10.44 per cent in January 2008.  The one-year fixed rate mortgage average had dropped to 6.17 per cent from 9.78 per cent over the same period.  Our economy was initially knocked into recession by a combination of last summer's drought, the then high interest rates and soaring fuel bills.  While many of those issues have been resolved subsequently, our businesses are now being hit hard by the ongoing effects of the global financial market meltdown that took place in September/October last year.  The combination of lower interest rates and tax cuts is putting more money in many people's pockets and does appear to be starting to have some impact.  February house sale figures from the Real Estate Institute showed a strong recovery in the number of sales from a record low in January.  According to QV, however, prices are still falling - having dropped 8.9 per cent in the past year.  'As economic activity troughs, we expect the rapid easing of monetary policy to slow,' Bollard said.  'Any future cuts will be much smaller than observed recently. We do not expect to see in New Zealand the near-zero policy rates of some countries. New Zealand needs to retain competitiveness in the international capital markets.  'We will assess the need for further cuts in the OCR against emerging developments in the global and domestic economies and the responses to policy changes already in place.'  
