TANKING: The amount of house building work carried out in the December quarter plunged by 13.4 per cent on a seasonally-adjusted basis - the biggest fall in eight years.  Relevant offers  Economists expect the housing construction sector will continue to suffer in the first half of this year.  Statistics New Zealand figures out today showed that the amount of House building work in the December quarter plunged by 13.4 per cent on a seasonally-adjusted basis - the biggest fall in eight years. The volume of work was the lowest recorded since March 2002.  The figures released today, which measure actual building work done, are consistent with recent building consents data that have shown a sharp and continuing slowdown in particularly residential building activity.  Goldman Sachs JBWere director of Australia &amp; New Zealand investment research Shamubeel Eaqub said looking at the recent volumes of building consents issued 'it is clear to us that activity in the sector will worsen through the first half of 2009 and there is some risk to the third quarter'.  He said job losses were 'almost certain' in the construction sector, but would also occur in indirectly exposed sectors such as financial, property and business services, and retail and wholesale trade, all of which had benefited from the property boom.  'Together these segments added 137,000 jobs (of 221,000 total) over the past five years and the risk of reversal is high. We expect the unemployment rate to rise from 4.6 currently to between 7 per cent and 8 per cent by year end,' he said.  UBS New Zealand senior economist Robin Clements said the building consents data pointing to another fall in residential building work during the current quarter of 'a similar magnitude' to that in the four quarter of 2008.  'This is a key reason why we have [forecast] another contraction in overall activity - IE a fifth quarter of recession - in the first quarter of 2009,' he said.  ASB economist Jane Turner said the bank's 'preliminary' forecast for GDP for the final quarter of 2008 was for a 1 per cent contraction. The economy has been in recession since the start of 2008. The GDP figures for the December quarter won't be released till March 27.  Statistics New Zealand said the three months ending December were the fifth consecutive quarter that volumes of residential building work had declined, and the rate of decline was increasing. The volume was now about a third lower than it was in the September 2007 quarter.  The picture continues to be slightly brighter in non-residential construction. In the December quarter non-residential construction work volumes actually increased 1.6 per cent.  For the whole of 2008, the value of non-residential work was $5.2 billion - an increase of 3.7 per cent.  However, the $7.3 billion of residential building work represented a 14.2 per cent year-on-year drop.  
