 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   AXA, ANZ, DJS, PPT, AWB,   AFP 2009-03-18   The World Bank on Tuesday slashed China's economic growth forecast to 6.5 per cent in 2009 but said the Asian giant was resisting the global economic firestorm with solid fundamentals. 'As the global crisis has intensified, China's exports have been hit badly, affecting market-based investment and sentiment, notably in the manufacturing sector,' the World Bank said in releasing a quarterly report on China's economy.  In sharply lowering its previous 7.5 per cent growth estimate for the Asian giant, the World Bank noted it followed recent downward revisions for global gross domestic product (GDP) growth in 2009.  According to the latest World Bank global forecasts, published in December, the world economy would expand at a weak annual rate of 0.9 per cent in 2009, with a 0.1 per cent contraction in developed economies offset by growth in developing countries of 4.5 per cent.  A Chinese government think tank this month forecast first-quarter growth would slow to 6.5 per cent from a 6.8 per cent pace in the fourth quarter last year. 'China is a relative bright spot in an otherwise gloomy global economy,' said the World Bank's country director for China, David Dollar. 'Shifting China's output from exports to domestic needs helps to provide immediate stimulus while laying the foundation for more sustainable growth in the future.' The World Bank said that China's banks 'have been largely unscathed' in the global financial turmoil that accelerated after the collapse of US investment bank Lehman Brothers in September. 'The economy still has plenty of space to implement forceful stimulus measures,' said the Washington-based development lender.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said last week that China has made plans to inject more money into the economy, admitting the global crisis was making this year's growth target of about 8.0 per cent hard to achieve.  The Chinese government unveiled an unprecedented four-trillion-yuan ($A876.53 billion) stimulus package in November.
