By Brian Fallow The lift in exports in the December quarter was all in prices - volumes fell nearly 2 per cent. Photo / Kenny Rodger New Zealand spent $16 billion more than it earned in its dealings with the rest of the world last year, driving up overseas debt and heightening the country's vulnerability amid a global credit crunch.  The current account deficit - the broadest measure of the gap between what New Zealand earns from the rest of the word through trade and investment and what the rest of the world earns from it - was $4 billion in the December quarter, or $3.8 billion when adjusted for seasonal effects, Statistics New Zealand said.  It pushed the annual deficit to $16 billion, equivalent to 8.9 per cent of gross domestic product, from $15.5 billion and 8.6 per cent in September. The ratio has not been so high since September 2006.  ANZ National Bank economist Philip Borkin said it was one of the largest deficits in the developed world and in the context of a global credit crunch left New Zealand in a vulnerable position.  It increased the country's net debtor position to $168 billion or 93 per cent of GDP, also a very high level by developed country standards. 'Based on underlying fundamentals we estimate the sustainable level is closer to 60 per cent,' said Goldman Sachs JBWere economist Shamubeel Eaqub.  New Zealand's gross overseas debt is just under a quarter of a trillion dollars of which two-thirds is held by banks and 36 per cent matures within 90 days.  The state of the external accounts was cited, along with rapidly worsening Government accounts, by rating agency Standard and Poor's when it put New Zealand's credit rating on negative outlook in January. The  has also been concerned about the high level of external debt for some time, its head of mission for Australia and New Zealand, Ray Brooks, said on Monday. 'But the difference between New Zealand and other countries that stands it in good stead is that the banks are almost fully hedged for foreign exchange risk and corporates are largely hedged.' He contrasted that with the position of countries in eastern and central Europe which have funded their external deficits with foreign borrowing which is unhedged. 'When the exchange rate falls that creates a problem in eastern Europe. 'Here it helps, because you don't have to borrow as many US dollars to fund the same amount of New Zealand dollars. Plus, the [Government] wholesale funding guarantees here and in Australia give a cushion, and the banks are continuing to access foreign funding,' Brooks said. Eaqub said he did not foresee a near-term risk of capital flight. 'Instead any vulnerability is likely to relate to the need to raise increasingly larger amounts of capital to invest in an economy with low productivity gains. In a world hungry for capital, continuity of capital supply cannot be assured.'
