The basis for the Reserve Banks relatively mild 50 basis point cut this morning are forecasts for growth over the next two years that are optimistic according to senior private sector economists.  Deutsche Bank head of research David Plank says that growth in 2010 will probably disappoint relative to the Reserve Banks expectations as laid out in the Monetary Policy Statement, but I think what that means is that theyll be slower to tighten in 2010 than theyre currently forecasting.  There are some pointers that rate cuts to date are having an impact  with some data suggesting the housing market is starting to bottom out says Mr Plank, and going with a 50 bp cut leaves the Reserve Bank with more room in the future should it be required.  The position of New Zealands OCR relative to Australias is also a concern.  I think theres a limit to how far they would be willing to take our cash rate below Australias because of concerns about what it might mean for the currencies. Dr Bollards statement made reference to the need for New Zealand to remain competitive in the international financial market, and I think he was referring to our relative interest rate settings, says Mr Plank.  Based on todays cut and accompanying Monetary Policy Statement, economists seem to have quickly come to a consensus that the next two rate cuts in April and June are likely to be 25 basis points cuts taking us down to a terminal cash rate of 2.5%, rather than the 2% - or below - predicted before todays announcement.  Theres a lot of stimulus in the pipeline, and the mathematical impact of six negative quarters suggests that recovery in the second half of the year is not unreasonable in our view. Itll just be a matter of how quickly that is, which is the much more unknown question, says Mr Plank.  ASB bank chief economist Nick Tuffley says the big caveat to further easing is the world economy stabilising in the second half of this year, so there is a huge amount of downside risk to the Reserve Banks outlook.'  It would be very, very nice if we got the scenario the Reserve Bank is forecasting, says Mr Tuffley.  That would be a fairly pleasant end to a pretty challenging period for the economy. But in the short term notwithstanding that, I think they will be reluctant to drop rates much further until we get to that point where we see news being much weaker even than their expectations.  From a longer term perspective Mr Tuffley says New Zealand, like a lot of industrialised economies, is undergoing a structural shift to living within our means again, rather than off other peoples savings, which is essentially what New Zealand has done over the last hundred years or so... so that does mean less household demand growth in the future.  As individuals were all going to have to start living within our means again.'  Meanwhile JPMorgan economist Helen Kevans says the significant downward revisions to the RBNZs economic and financial forecasts were substantial enough to have warranted a 100 bp cut to the OCR today, particularly given that unlike Australia, New Zealand has been in a homegrown recession since the beginning of 2008  which has been amplified by international troubles.  Moreover, given easing inflationary pressures, sagging domestic house prices, and a falling terms of trade, the RBNZ had ample scope to ease policy assertively, she says.  
