Stocks on Wall Street have wiped early gains and the Dow and Standard and Poor's indexes have fallen to fresh 12 year lows as investors continue to worry about the recession.  Stocks tumbled yesterday when insurance giant AIG recorded a record loss and required another US government bail out.  News which is unsettling the American market today include pending home sales sinking to a record low in January.  ------  An economist is predicting the Reserve Bank will not follow Australia's lead in leaving interest rates unchanged but will instead opt to slash the official cash rate.  The OCR is due to be reviewed next Thursday  Cameron Bagrie from the ANZ Bank believes it will be cut by 50 points, taking it to three percent.  Australia's Reserve Bank has decided to end its aggressive easing cycle and has kept its rates at 3.25 percent.  Mr Bagrie says it shows just how much New Zealand's economy is hurting. 'It's not very often you see the New Zealand economy in recession for 12 months and Australia pretty much flat.' Mr Bagrie says it is also rare for New Zealand's OCR to dip below Australia's.  ------  A Canterbury business leader reckons flexibility is the key to surviving the current economic downturn.  More than 200 business owners attended a function in Christchurch yesterday to hear BNZ chief economist Tony Alexander talk about how New Zealand might recover from the recession.  Kevin Vincent from New Zealand Institute of Management, says businesses aren't that pessimistic about the short term prospects. 'Christchurch businesses are probably embracing more flexibility and people are reinventing themselves to suit the current situation, whatever that is. It's good that don't put their head firmly in the sand but look on the positive side.' ------  On the markets, the NZX50 is 64 points lower on 2,418.  On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 54 points to 6,708.  The New Zealand dollar is trading at 49.47 US cents, 77.48 Australian cents, 39.43 euro cents, 48.56 yen and 35.28 pence.  The 90 day bank bill rate is 3.10 percent and the TWI is 51.30.
