AUSTRALIAN shares closed at a five-year low as investors slashed bets that the Reserve Bank would cut interest rates tomorrow. The All Ords finished 93.1 points, or 2.82 per cent lower, at 3203.8, its lowest level since 2003.   Investors also worried about weaker-than-expected data on company profits indicating the domestic economy might have shrank in the final quarter of 2008.   A TD-Melbourne Institute survey also stirred fears, showing inflation had edge above the Reserve Banks target range of 2 per cent to 3 per cent in February.   Brokers lowered profit forecasts on companies such as QBE Insurance.   And the banks came under pressure after ratings agency Moodys downgraded its outlook to negative for Westpac, Commonwealth Bank and ANZ.   Treasurer Wayne Swan Treasurer Wayne Swan said overseas conditions would have a dramatic impact on growth in Australia in the December quarter.   The national accounts for the December quarter are released on Wednesday. Theres no doubt there will be a dramatic impact on growth in the December quarter from what has occurred around the globe, Mr Swan said. Something like seven out of our top 10 trading partners are now in recession and that does have a dramatic impact on our economy. There's no doubt that flows through in some cases quite quickly when you're dealing with trading partners such as Japan. Australias benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index closed 94.4 points, or 2.82 per cent, lower at 3250.1, its lowest closing level in five years as the bear market tightened its grip, although it held above its November 21 five-year intraday low of 3217.5.   The All Ordinaries finished 93.1 points, or 2.82 per cent lower, at 3203.8, its lowest level since December 11, 2003.   Investors began the day in a gloomy mood after Wall Street fell on Friday to cap the worst February since 1933.   Figures showed the worlds biggest economy last quarter had its sharpest contraction since 1982, while the US Government reached agreement with Citigroup to take as much as 36 per cent of the struggling bank.   At a time when deeply bruised equity investors are looking for a leg up, bond markets have substantially scaled back the chance Australias central bank will cut rates by 25 basis points when its board meets tomorrow, according to Credit Suisse report.   Analysts said the TD-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge, which showed inflation rose at annual pace of 3.1 per cent last month, may prompt the RBA to keep rates unchanged. The RBA board, which meets tomorrow, will be a little uncomfortable with these inflation results. As a result, it may pause in the interest rate cutting cycle as it waits for the current fiscal and monetary stimulus to work through the economy, said Stephen Koukoulas, TDs global strategist and co-creator of the inflation gauge.   While most economists expect interest rates to fall by 25-50 basis points, several observers believe there is a strong case for the RBA to keep rates on hold.   Macquarie Bank interest-rate strategist Rory Robertson said: The case for a pause this week starts with the fact that the RBA has just moved more aggressively than ever before, with five cash-rate cuts in five meetings. Slowing the easing process will help to ensure that policy is properly calibrated to Australias economic prospects, not to the bleaker economic situations in the US, the UK, the Eurozone and Japan. RBA governor Glenn Stevens, in testimony to a federal parliamentary committee last month, suggested the RBA would not necessarily respond to more bad economic statistics by cutting rates, unless such data tells us something genuinely new about the prospects for demand and prices over the medium term. 
