Interest rates have come down again, with the Reserve Bank this morning cutting its official cash rate by 50 basis points - 0.5 per cent - to 3 per cent.   Unlike earlier cuts, when the Reserve Bank surprised many with supersized cuts, a reduction of this scale was expected by many.  A Reuters survey earlier this week had eight of the 14 forecasters polled plumped for a 50 basis point cut.  But they also saw a decent chance of cuts of 75 or 100 basis points. Governor Alan Bollard has tended to go further and faster than market economists expected in this easing cycle.  As for how low the OCR might go, nine of the forecasters in the Reuters poll saw a 2.5 per cent trough by mid-year, four saw it falling to 2 per cent and one 3 per cent.   Today's cut is large compared to the bank's pre-credit crunch standards. However, mortgage rates offered by banks are not expected to change significantly.  The Reserve Bank is 'increasingly irrelevant' when it comes to influencing retail interest rates, said Cameron Bagrie, the chief economist at NZ's largest bank, ANZ National.  The only rates that will move will be the floating rate, now ranging from 5.99 to 6.99 per cent depending on the bank, and very-short-term rates - six months to one year. These rates should move by 'something approaching the amount of the cut,' said Bagrie. Changes to the official cash rate have a direct effect on the short-term money markets that drive floating and short-term fixed-mortgage rates.  But fixed rates will be determined, among other things, not by what the Reserve Bank does with the cash rate today, but what it indicates it may do over the next 12 to 24 months.  Analysts predict the Reserve Bank may start raising interest rates in early 2010 in response to early signs of economic recovery.  chief economist Tony Alexander sounded a cautionary note earlier this week: 'With huge uncertainty continuing about the global economy, one must also recognise huge uncertainty with regard to exactly when and where interest rates bottom out this year.' Like most indicators, consensus forecasts for growth among New Zealand's trading partners have fallen off a cliff. Last month's survey of economists in those markets found they are expected to contract by a weighted average of 0.9 per cent this year, a stark contrast to the 2.5 per cent growth forecast as recently as September.  On the positive side for the Reserve Bank, there has been a steep fall in inflation expectations, always a central consideration for an inflation-targeting central bank. 'Some would argue that the Reserve Bank has anticipated the global weakness and plenty of stimulus is working its way through the pipeline,' said ASB chief economist Nick Tuffley. 'It's a valid argument. However, when facing the largest global downturn since the 1930s Depression, the path of least regret is surely to err on the side of cutting too much than cutting too little. 'Overly loose monetary conditions can be wound back without much consequence.' Tuffley favoured a 100-point cut today and a 2 per cent end-point. But Deutsche Bank chief economist Darren Gibbs said Bollard should cut 50 points today, then pause.  * Alan Bollard was expected by many to cut the OCR by at least 50 basis points to 3 per cent today.  * He is headed to 2 or 2.5 per cent by mid-year.  * Last month he cut by 150 basis points  Interest Rates around the world:   European Central Bank - 1.5 per cent  Bank of England - 0.5 per cent  Australia - 3.25 per cent  US Federal Reserve - 0-0.25pc  Japan 0.1 per cent
