Stuart Fagg, ninemsn Money  A collapse in the job market will push unemployment to 7.5 percent in the coming year, according to economists.  The number of newspaper job advertisments fell by 55 percent in the past year and more than 25 percent in the past month alone, according to figures released today by ANZ bank.  Including internet listings, the number of job ads fell by 40 percent over the past year. Warren Hogan, head of Australian economics at ANZ, said the figures show that Australia is already in recession.  'Recent trends in job advertising are consistent with other indicators which suggest that the Australian economy entered recession in late 2008 and remains in recession in early 2009,' he said. 'The trends in job advertising in Australia suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate is likely.'  ANZ is now forecasting that the unemployment rate will hit 7.5 percent by the middle of next year but Hogan warned that number could increase significantly.  The figures shocked analysts, who had been expecting a fall of around 33 percent in overall job ads over the past year. Official employment figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics will be released on Thursday and are expected to show a rise in the unemployment rate from 4.8 to 5 percent and the loss of 20,000 jobs in February.  The grim news on jobs comes as businesses are experiencing the toughest conditions since the recession of the early 1990s, leading companies to slash jobs.  A monthly survey of over 400 firms from National Australia Bank found employment intentions fell by the most in the history of the series.  NAB's measure of business conditions dropped 9 points to -20, a level not seen since 1992. Sales and profits both slid, while the employment index sank 10 points to -27.  'The readings on employment are lower than any since June 1991 and imply considerable job shedding which is clearly much worse than is so far evident in the (government) statistician's estimates,' said Alan Oster, group chief economist at NAB.  
