Activity in the services industry has contracted further as the  keeps consumers at home, a survey says. The -Commonwealth Bank performance of services index (PSI) fell 8.8 index points in February to 32.2 points.  It was the 11th straight month the index has come in below the key 50 level which separates expansion from contraction.  The survey found weak levels of consumer and business confidence, as well as falling demand, had caused a broad-based decline in activity among firms in the services sector.  Of the nine sectors covered in the survey, only communications services experienced an expansion in activity.  The largest decrease in activity was in the wholesale trade and personal and recreational services sectors.  The financial and insurance sector also continued to feel the effects of turmoil in financial markets, with activity contracting for a ninth straight month. 'Firms also pointed to weak tourist numbers, market uncertainty, and an unwillingness to invest as factors impeding services activity,' the report said. There were also falling sales and a sharp decline in new orders.  Inventories of finished goods were run down for the tenth month in a row. Ai  Heather Ridout said further  were needed to help stimulate activity. 'While this month's call on interest rates was understandable, there is scope for further rate reductions,' Mrs Ridout said in a statement. 'Monetary policy will need to remain agile in the face of numbers such as these.' The  (RBA) kept the official cash rate unchanged at 3.25 per cent at its March board meeting on Tuesday.  Mrs Ridout said conditions in the services industry remained unpredictable and the months ahead would be challenging. 'Confidence in the services sector is very low while consumers are clearly hunkering down in the face of what is emerging as an unfathomable economic crisis,' Mrs Ridout said. The survey found the rate of decline in activity accelerated in all states except Western Australia.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia senior economist John Peters said the sharp fall in activity in the services sector reflected 'battered business and consumer confidence and consequent sharp slowing in domestic demand.
