hrs WELLINGTON: New Zealand's current account deficit widened in the year to December as tourism declined and international freight costs rose, official figures showed Thursday.   Economists said the high current account deficit makes New Zealand vulnerable at a time when capital is scarce due to the global financial crisis but added the deficit was set to decline later in the year.   The current account deficit for the year to December came to NZ$16.1 billion (US$9.0 billion) or 8.9 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), Statistics New Zealand said.   The deficit, which measures the country's financial dealings with the rest of the world, compared with a shortfall in the year to September of NZ$15.5 billion or 8.6 per cent of GDP.   For the December quarter, the current account deficit came to NZ$4.0 billion, down from NZ$6.0 billion in the September quarter, SNZ said.   The deficit for goods trade rose to NZ$2.4 billion in the year to December from NZ$2.3 billion over the 12 months to September.   Goods exports increased in the December year, with higher dairy exports offset by higher imports of oil products.   The services deficit rose from NZ$496 million to NZ$1.01 billion in the same period.   The main reasons for the services deficit increase were a rise in the cost of international transportation services and a fall in exports of travel services, SNZ said. 'The increased imports of transportation services was mainly due to higher freight costs, while the decrease in exports of travel services was caused by fewer visitors coming to New Zealand.' The investment income deficit fell NZ$89 million from the year to September to NZ$13.6 billion. New Zealand's net overseas liabilities rose 9.9 per cent to NZ$167.7 billion at the end of 2008 and net international debt rose 14 per cent to NZ$156.3 billion. Economists say the current account deficit is likely to decline later this year as demand for imports weakens and the value of exports rises due to a lower New Zealand dollar.   ASB Bank chief economist Nick Tuffley said the current account deficit would remain around the current level for another quarter. 'Beyond that, we expect the deficit to steadily narrow over the next couple of years to six per cent of GDP through more muted imports and smaller net outflows of investment income,' he said. Goldman Sachs JBWere analyst Shamubeel Eaqub said the net foreign liability position was equivalent to 94.5 per cent of GDP, with the sustainable level likely to be closer to 60 per cent. 'Unless foreign capital continues to be allocated to offset domestic dis-saving, the next decade is likely to be characterised by rising savings and reduced investment - equating to lower average growth and a lower exchange rate than the past decade,' he said. 'In a world hungry for capital, continuity of capital supply cannot be assured.' - AFP/yb
