(RTTNews) - Tuesday, data showed increasing weakness in the Australian economy as business conditions plunged to their lowest levels in 17 years in February and job advertisements slipped by record. Meanwhile, credit card spending in New Zealand increased. Australia Data released by the National Australia Bank showed that the business conditions index fell 9 points to minus 20 in February, the lowest reading since June 1992. The employment and new orders indexes showed declines, but the forward-looking business confidence gauge climbed.  Elsewhere, a report released by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group revealed that total job advertisements in Australia fell 10.4% month-on-month in February compared to a 6.3% fall in January, and marked the biggest monthly decline since the statistics for the survey began in 1999.  Overall, the job ads data is becoming bleaker by the month, with detrended levels now clearly in the territory associated historically with negative annual employment growth, Westpac senior economist Anthony Thompson said in a note. 'We have recently revised down our employment outlook, projecting jobs growth to deteriorate from current trend pace of +1.0%yr to -1.4%yr at end-2009, lifting the unemployment rate to 6.5%, but the evidence from our preferred leading indicators of labor demand are pointing to risks of an even bleaker outlook'. Wednesday, the Westpac consumer confidence for March is due. Housing finance data for January is also expected. Economists expect home loans to rise 4% month-on-month in January. New Zealand The latest report from Statistics New Zealand showed that the total value of credit card spending increased a seasonally adjusted 0.6% month-on-month in February, following a 0.2% rise in January. In the retail industries, card spending increased 0.5% in February, following three months of declines. On the other hand, credit card spending in the core retailing industries, which excludes motor vehicles sales, fell 0.4% in February compared to a 0.3% decline in January.  Results of the latest Manpower Employment Outlook survey among 868 employers showed that hiring plans for the next three months has fallen sharply, with the net employment outlook dipping to minus 10%. The level is the least optimistic since the survey began in the second quarter of 2004.  Meanwhile, the Bank of New Zealand's first monthly confidence survey for 2009 revealed deterioration in sentiment from December. A net 23% of respondents expect the economy to get worse over the coming year from 6% three months ago. That said, lower interest rates along with increasing perceptions of a shortage have contributed to a significant improvement in sentiment in residential real estate, BNZ Chief Economist Tony Alexander said.  Wednesday, New Zealand's terms of trade data for the fourth quarter are due. Economists are expecting the terms of trade to decline 3.7% sequentially in the fourth quarter after a 2.3% fall previously.  For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com
