The Australian dollar recovered on Tuesday, after skirting close to recent one-month lows offshore, helped by a bout of short covering, though weak economic data at home kept it on the defensive.  Asian stocks gained and appetite for safe-haven currencies and assets dimmed, providing a positive backdrop for the Aussie, though investors were cautious ahead of key domestic jobs data later in the week.  Against the low-yielding yen, the Aussie bounced to 63.15 yen from a low of 62.31 earlier in the day, and marginally firmer than 63.03 yen late here on Monday.  In late trade, the dollar was at $US0.6386, up from $US0.6314 late in New York, and slightly lower than $US0.6415 late here on Monday. It struck a one-month low of $US0.6285 last week after domestic data showed the economy contracting in the December quarter for the first time in eight years. 'There was some positioning for the Aussie to fall towards $US0.6285 earlier in the session and when that did not eventuate, we saw a bit of short squeeze,'' said Jonathan Cavenagh, currency strategist at Westpac. 'We remain bearish on the Australian dollar and the trigger could come from domestic economic data later in the week. Until then, offshore developments will continue to drive it.''  Investors are bracing for a nasty employment report on Thursday. The jobless rate is expected to rise to 5% in February from 4.8% the previous month, and nearly 20,000 jobs are likely to have been lost as more companies shed labour to cut costs.  A private sector survey on Tuesday pointed in that direction. ANZ Bank's monthly survey of job advertisements showed ads sank 10.4% in February, the largest fall since the combined newspaper and internet series began in 1999.  A separate survey from National Australia Bank showed business conditions deteriorated in February to levels not seen since 1992, putting renewed pressure on the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to resume easing at its next meeting in April. 'The data reinforces our view that the pause by the RBA in its easing campaign will be short and we expect a 50 basis point cut in April,'' said Paul Brennan, economist at Citi.
