 Australia is in a recession, possibly even another Great Depression. Unemployment will likely tip well above 6% this year with more and more jobless set to flood an already-swamped marketplace and the Sunshine Coast will suffer for not having a diversified economy.  That's the grim picture painted by University of the Sunshine Coast senior lecturer and State of the Region conference founder Dr Scott Prasser.  And while the media often cops criticism for being too negative and for spreading doom and gloom, journalists also have a duty to report the facts of the current reality.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics' January 2009 labour force figures for the North and West Moreton district, of which the Sunshine Coast is part, showed that there were 8000 unemployed people here, 1500 more than the same time last year, and 174,700 employed people, 8800 less than last year.  The unemployment rate rose from 3.4% last January, to 4.7% in December and 4.4% in January for an annual employment growth of negative 8.6% - one of the worst rates in the state.  Just last week, it was revealed that more than 47,000 people had lost their jobs in February as the national unemployment rate rose to 5.2%.  The labour market is on the verge of becoming a serious problem, Dr Prasser said. All our trading partners are in recession, we are now in recession, there's going to be more people put out of work and more people on shorter working weeks.  There will be a contraction in demand for staff.  There are always business cycles, but Australia has had an unprecendented 17 years of uninterrupted economic growth.  In the last 10 years, we've had several unusual things - economic growth, increasing participation in the workforce, more people seeking work and getting it, declining unemployment, real wages going up, low inflation and low industrial disputes - that is unprecendented in Australian history.  Dr Prasser said the Coast's sandpit economy was not robust enough to buffer the effects of the crisis, as it was too heavily reliant on tourism and construction, two sectors that have been hit hard by an evaporation of disposable income-spenders and property market instability.  News emerged last week that economists were predicting an unemployment rate surge to at least 7.5% by the middle of next year, with ANZ Bank figures showing the number of newspaper job advertisements fell by 55% in the past year and more than 25% in the past month.  The bank's head of economics Warren Hogan said the figures showed Australia was already in recession.  Dr Prasser said last November's State of the Region conference predicted the same rise in unemployment to above 6%.  This situation does put pressure on...it really tests people's social cohesion and the community-ness of a place and it will force people to live within their means, Dr Prasser said.  But first we've got to realise we have problems, underline the cause and then go and fix them - some people are in self-denial about problems.  We need to look at ways to make the Sunshine Coast more competitive. We need to reduce regulations, ask how we can make the region open for business, ask how we can encourage investment, how we can improve facilities, he said.  If we're going to spend government money, it should be spent on useful things, not useless things. We need to ask what things we have to fix in tourism, what our event attraction strategy is, which will then create jobs.  Are our conference facilities adequate, are we processing applications for works projects fast enough?  And the responsibility for these things lies only partially with local government, too much is expected of local government.  It's the State Government who has to take a major running of these things.  The Outlook  Cafes, restaurants, accommodation: In the five years to 2012-13, expected growth of 1.7% per annum, or 44,100 new jobs (average annual growth across all industries is 1.5%).  Construction: expected growth of 2.2% per annum, or 105,900 new jobs.  Retail: expected growth of 1.6% per annum, or 133,500 new jobs.  Mining: expected growth of 2.9% per annum, or 21,400 new jobs.  Health: expected growth of 2.7% per annum, or 159 600 new jobs.  Education: expected growth of 2% per annum, or 77,800 new jobs.  Finance and insurance: expected growth of 0.8% per annum, or 15,300 new jobs.  Manufacturing: expected decline of 0.5% per annum.  *Source: SkillsInfo
