WHEN it comes to the global financial crunch it's all about the banks.  A couple of weeks ago I suggested Australian banks had to come to the party and help our economy recover by adopting 'normal conservative credit policies' rather than staying in their current hibernation.  Since then an international survey found Australian banks to be the most profitable in the world and among the strongest. They can afford to be more relaxed.  It's a different story in the US. The banks are a worry and the US economy will not recover until their banks are solid.  Last year 25 US banks failed and this year 14 have had to be saved. All leading US banks are undergoing a 'stress test' to see if they will need government support to survive.  It is amazing the likes of Citibank and Bank of America need government help and will probably be partly nationalised as a result. Their troubles are best illustrated by the fact the value of the leading listed US banks combined is less than the value of oil giant Exxon ( $US300 billion for the banks against $US350 billion for Exxon).  While extraordinary, this is a reflection of the dire predicament of US banks. Australian banks used to be valued at about 10 per cent of their US counterparts; now they're more than a third of their value.  In this crisis, US banks are reluctant to lend to each other, let alone customers.  It's one of the reasons why any recovery in the US sharemarket and economy is going to be slow - much slower than some of the experts have been predicting.  It's been fascinating watching some of the US business television channels over recent weeks, replete with predictions that when the turnaround comes it will be fast and strong. I don't think so.  Sure we'll still get lots of volatility (like last week's back-to-back 200-point falls and gains) but it's unlikely there will be a strong, consistent turnaround any time soon.  President Barack Obama and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke appear confident of a turnaround but the fine print of what they are saying tells the real story.  Bernanke told Congress: The US economy is in the midst of a severe contraction; The recovery could start later this year; Full economic recovery will take more than two or three years; High unemployment will still be a drag on growth in 2011.It sounds like he has a handle on things until: This outlook for economic activity is subject to considerable uncertainty and I believe that, overall, the downside risks probably outweigh those on the upside.  In other words he's giving his best guess but isn't confident. As I've said before, the real worry is all the experts are revising their predictions downward on a regular basis.  The big driver of the US economy is the American consumer. Last week consumer confidence figures dropped to the lowest level since data began in 1967 despite the confirmation of the $US787 billion ($1.2 trillion) economic stimulus package.  Imagine being a battered American home owner. The Case-Shiller house price index of 20 big cities has been collecting data for 21 years and in December recorded its biggest ever fall of 18.2 per cent. Since the peak in July 2006, this index has dropped 27 per cent and it's gathering pace.  The property crash started in Florida and southern California but is now spreading to New York and North Carolina, where many of the big banks are headquartered.  The property crash also has spread to the UK and Europe where banks are also under pressure. It could be argued the UK is in a worse position than the US.  Thankfully, our property market is holding up pretty well and is one of the key factors behind the resilience of our economy. Lower official interest rates, strong immigration numbers and first home owner grants will hopefully ensure it stays that away.  As I've said before, economies and markets move in cycles. Booms always bust and busts always end. It just looks like this bust will take a bit longer to turn around than first thought.
