Business conditions slumped in February to a level last seen just after the 1990s recession, as the effects of a slowdown in the global economy continued to belt Australia, a survey shows.  The National Australia Bank (NAB) monthly business survey's measure of business conditions fell nine index points to minus 20 points, a level last recorded in June 1992.  However, the measure of business confidence rose slightly from its 20-year low in January, by 10 index points to minus 22 points in February.  The lift in business confidence followed the worst reading of confidence in 20 years of the survey in January.  A reading below zero indicates pessimists outweigh optimists.  The February survey's measure of forward orders, trading conditions, export sales, profits, capital spending and employment all stayed negative.  NAB chief economist Alan Oster said the industries expected to prosper from the federal government's stimulus package supplied the improvement in confidence.  In February, the federal government said workers earning under $100,000 a year would receive a payment, $12.3 billion in total, from the second stimulus package to boost domestic spending.  'While business confidence improved in February, that is very much driven from improved expectations in the retail and wholesale sectors,' Mr Oster said.  'In turn, those sectors are the ones most likely to benefit from the next round of government cash handouts.'  Westpac Economics said firms would spend less because of the overall fall in confidence.  'The collapse in business confidence ... will see firms cutting back on investment, hiring and inventories,' Westpac said in a research note.  Mr Oster said the economy was unlikely to recover in the near term.  'There is little in the survey to suggest that activity levels might be bottoming with continuing falls in mining and manufacturing activity very prominent,' he said.  'Nor is there much solace to be found in the employment, forward order and capex data in the survey.'  The NAB survey showed the employment index fell by 10 index points to minus 27 points in February, the largest fall in the survey's history to a level last touched in December 1991.  Unemployment was forecast to rise to be at 6.5 per cent by the end of 2009 and 7.5 in 2010, NAB said.  The market forecasts 20,000 jobs to be lost in February and the unemployment rate to rise 0.2 percentage points to five per cent when the Australian Bureau of Statistics releases the labour force report on Thursday.  Australia's gross domestic product (GDP) contracted 0.5 per cent in the December quarter, and NAB now forecasts the domestic economy to shrink by one per cent in 2009 before growing by 0.9 per cent the following year.  Mr Oster said it was likely Australia has entered a recession.  'Our forecasts imply a moderate recession in 2009 - it would no longer be appropriate to classify these forecasts as a mild recession,' he said.  NAB expects the Reserve Bank of Australia to cut the cash rate to two per cent by late 2009, from 3.25 per cent currently.  
