The Australian bond market has closed weaker after local equity markets reversed direction to finish higher and investors unwound long positions in response to poor domestic economic data.  At 1630 AEDT, the yield on the Commonwealth Government March 2019 bond was 4.255 per cent, up from Monday's close of 4.120 per cent, while the yield on the April 2012 bond was at 3.067 per cent, up from 2.997 per cent.  On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the March 10-year bond futures contract price was 95.765, down from Monday's close of 95.905, while the March three-year bond futures contract was at 96.945, down from 97.010.  The Australian bond market opened firmer ahead of the ANZ job advertisements survey and National Australia Bank's monthly business survey.  But the bond market sold off following their release at 1130 AEDT despite both reports painting a gloomy picture of the local economy. Job ads fell 10.4 per cent in February, while business conditions slumped to their worst level since June 1992.  UBS senior economist Matthew Johnson said investors had expected a bad report. 'It wasn't going to cause people to dramatically alter their investment strategies, but I think the market was just a little bit long ahead of the report,' Mr Johnson said. 'Even though the data was roundly awful, there was no one left to buy.' The Australian share market opened weaker on Tuesday, but by lunchtime had moved into positive territory and closed about one per cent stronger. 'The market had firmed up overnight as equities sold off, and across the day today equities have rallied back and so the bond market has softened up,' Mr Johnson said. Mr Johnson said supply issues also weighed on the market, particularly at the long end of the yield curve given Wednesday's tender of $600 million worth of February 15, 2017, Treasury bonds. 'The weakness you see at the long end is a reflection, in part, of the fact that there's a long-bond auction tomorrow - so there's a little bit of dealer hedging,' Mr Johnson said. 'If there is going to be $US1 trillion worth of US bonds sold this year, then Australian bonds will have to cheapen up to get competitive with those bonds.' The US Treasury was expected to auction $US34 billion ($A53.88 billion) worth of three-year notes during Tuesday night's (AEDT) offshore session.  Other notable events included a speech from US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke about bank regulation, at the Council of Foreign Relations in Washington and US wholesale inventories data for January were also due for release.  2009 AAP Brought to you by 
