PM warns Australia is not immune from the global slowdown, as our economy heads towards recession. 3/09 Sky News  Rate review ... RBA governor Glenn Stevens may have good news for homeowners in April. Picture: Kym Smith.  Economy shrinking faster than expected  Silver lining for homeowners  More rate cuts likely  THE Australian economy's rapid deterioration is likely to force the Reserve Bank to resume cutting interest rates as soon as next month.  With the economy shrinking sooner - and faster - than expected, investors and economists said a cut was back on the RBA's April agenda, the Daily Telegraph reported.  Only 24 hours earlier this looked improbable, when the Reserve's Governor Glenn Stevens indicated rates were on hold for the time being.  Not only is the RBA likely to cut sooner, it may go lower for longer.  'The April RBA board meeting is live,' ANZ Bank's head of Australian economics and interest rate research Warren Hogan said yesterday.  While that is good news for home rate to 2.75 per cent, the lowest rate ever. If commercial lenders follow suit, the average variable mortgage rate would fall to as low as 5per cent - last seen in 1960, according to RBA data. The lowest mortgage rate on record is 3.88 per cent from 1950-52.  At 5 per cent, monthly payments on a $350,000 loan would decline to $2046.06, a saving of $103.24.  'The April RBA board meeting is live,' the ANZ Bank's head of Australian economics and interest rate research Warren Hogan said yesterday.  While that is good news for homeowners - already enjoying the lowest rates since Robert Menzies was prime minister - it is a direct result of bad news on the economy.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics yesterday revealed that real gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 0.5 per cent in the December quarter, when predictions were for growth of 0.2 per cent. It is the first time the economy has contracted in eight years.  NSW recorded the weakest economic performance, along with South Australia.  The GDP figures were so bad and so surprising the share market fell more than 1 per cent in the half hour after the release of the data at 11.30am and the Australian dollar shed nearly US1c.  The nation will be in a technical recession should the next quarterly GDP figures also be negative -- now the prevailing view among economists.  'The downturn has arrived,' NAB senior economist David de Garis said.  The economy grew at an annual pace of just 0.3 per cent in 2008, the slowest rate since 1991, when Australia was last in the depths of recession.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said it was impossible for the economy to 'swim against the tide' of the global recession. Treasurer Wayne Swan said the result was 'sobering'.  Economists said the Government would probably have to provide further financial support on top of its previous strategies to keep activity from stalling.  'We anticipate a further substantial fiscal stimulus from the Budget in May,' Westpac's head of economics Bill Evans said.  HSBC's chief economist John Edwards said: 'One comforting thing is that while we had a pretty weak December quarter, we came out of it without a major decline in employment.'  
