The seasonally-adjusted jobless rate rose to 6.9 percent from 6.7 percent in the previous three months, matching expectations and reaching its highest level since the second quarter of 2006, but analysts said the worst was still to come.: "We will have to brace ourselves for a sustained increase in unemployment now," said Unicredit analysts Marco Annunziata. "We're looking at levels of more than eight percent by the end of this year." Statistics bureau ISTAT reported that on an unadjusted basis, unemployment increased to 7.1 percent from 6.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007.  An ISTAT spokeswoman said the 0.1 percent year-on-year increase in jobs in the fourth quarter was the lowest for 13 years and the marginal rise was entirely due to immigrants doing "low-level jobs". At the same time, growing numbers of large- and medium-sized firms are temporarily sending workers home on reduced pay using the "cassa integrazione" fund paid for jointly by employers and the government.  The number of workers at home but still officially employed under this scheme doubled year-on-year in the fourth quarter, the spokeswoman said.  Temporary workers and employees in small firms have no such safety net and are considered the most vulnerable to the economic recession. Italy's largest trade union, the CGIL, forecast this week there would be a million more unemployed at the end of 2010 than there were when the global financial crisis began in 2007.  On Friday workers at white goods maker Indesit IND.MI in Turin were staging a one-day strike against the closure of the plant, reflecting the mounting crisis in Italy's traditional industrial strongholds like household appliances and textiles. "Job growth has stalled, unemployment is up, but the gravest thing is the rise in the inactivity rate in the south," the spokeswoman said, pointing to the fact that increasing numbers of workers in the poorest part of the country had given up looking for work altogether.  Over the whole of 2008 the average unemployment rate stood at 6.7 percent, up from 6.1 percent in 2007 and the first rise since 1998.  Bank of America analyst Gilles Moec said jobs would continue to be shed, leading to further weakness in consumer spending and gross domestic product. The euro zone's third largest economy shrank by 1.0 percent last year, the largest fall in GDP since 1975, and analysts expect a much sharper contraction of around 3 percent this year. Italy's jobless rate has been on a gradually-rising trend since a low of 6.1 percent in the second quarter of 2007.  The government forecast average unemployment at 8.2 percent this year. That would still have been an unthinkably low level a decade ago when unemployment stood above 12 percent, before a steady decline linked to immigrant labour and more flexible labour market rules.  However, analysts say Italy's real challenge lies in raising its employment rate-which remains well below the euro zone average, particularly among women-and increasing its activity rate, or the sum of people working or looking for work.  The employment rate fell marginally in the fourth quarter to 58.5 percent from 58.7 percent a year earlier. 
