WELLINGTON - New Zealand's central bank cut interest rates by 50 basis points to a record low of 3.0 per cent and left the door open for more easing to combat a bleak economic outlook worsened by global recession. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) scaled back the amount of easing, after two hefty cuts of 1.5 percentage points each in December and January. It expects the economy to slowly pick up. The cut, the sixth since last July, took the official cash rate to its lowest level since it was instituted in March 1999. It peaked in July last year at 8.25 per cent. The central bank now sees the economy troughing in the middle of this year, helped by the substantial reduction in borrowing costs, fiscal stimulus and the lower New Zealand dollar. 'As economic activity troughs, we expect rapid easing of monetary policy to slow,' said RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard, adding that he did not expect to see near-zero policy rates in New Zealand. 'New Zealand needs to retain competitiveness in the international capital markets,' he said. Nine of 14 economists in a The New Zealand dollar rose around half a cent to $0.5110/20 after the rate decision, while the yield on the June bank bill contract rose 16 basis points to three per cent. An analyst said more rate cuts were on the agenda. 'I think there is more easing planned, the size is the question that is most uncertain,' said UBS senior economist Robin Clements. 'I've got another 50 basis points next month, and if there's signs of the world stabilising that might be chopped back to 25.' The move also comes after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) last week decided to keep its key rates steady at 3.25 per cent, pinning its hopes on stimulus already in place to help the country avoid the depths of recession seen elsewhere. Australia is New Zealand's biggest trading partner. Unlike neighbouring Australia, which was only hit with its first economic contraction in eight years last quarter, New Zealand was in recession in the first three quarters of 2008. The last time New Zealand suffered such a long period of economic contraction was in 1997/98 following the Asian financial crisis and drought. New Zealand's cash rate compares with official rates of 1.5 per cent in the euro zone, and near zero in the United States and Japan, Canada and Britain. The RBNZ will next review the cash rate on April 30.
