The big four banks will likely pass along any rate cut the Reserve Bank may announce later today, according to an industry analyst.  And less than an hour out from the announcement, traders and economists are expecting a 0.25% cut to the official cash rate - the basis on which banks calculate variable interest rates - according to Credit Suisse and news agencies.  The major banks have passed an average of 3.8 percentage points of the past 4 percentage points in cuts the Reserve Bank has made since September, in its effort to spur growth and avoid a recession.  'I would expect the major banks to pass the cuts on to borrowers,'' said Canstar Cannex rates analyst Harry Senlitonga. 'The wholesale market is quite stable in the past couple of months compared to 12 months ago.''  Read analysis and opinion on the RBA's latest move  Find out what the decision means for you  ALL FROM 2.30 THIS AFTERNOON  However, Mr Senlitonga warned that as rates continue to fall, banks must keep an eye on their profit margin, as well.  Since the RBA began cutting the interest rate in September, Mr Senlitonga said, the commercial banks have passed more of the savings on to home loan borrowers than to businesses.  ANZ Bank said it 'will pass on the maximum amount we are able to once we see what decision the Reserve Bank makes,' according to a spokeswoman.  She added 'there remains considerable uncertainty ... about the global economic outlook and financial markets, which remain very volatile and are continuing to impact funding costs.'  Cut expected  Most experts are predicting a cut - either a quarter of a percentage point or half a percentage point - when the decision is announced at 2.30pm.  If the anticipated 25-basis-point cut is announced, and if the banks pass that cut on in full, the average mortgage repayment on a $350,000, 25-year mortgage will drop $46 a month, or $13,761 over the total life of the loan.  If the cut is 50 basis points, the average mortgage repayment on a $350,000 25-year mortgage will drop $91 a month, or $27,306 over the total life of the loan.  The larger cut would take the official cash rate to its lowest-ever level, 2.75%, less than the all-time low monthly average rate of 2.89% seen in January 1960.  The RBA has already slashed interest rates by 400 basis points - or four percentage points - since September. The big four banks passed on 380 points of those cuts to mortgage holders.  Interest rates fell to a 45-year low of 3.25% in February following a 100-basis-point rate cut.  Even though domestic business data is strong, many economists believe deteriorating conditions among Australia's key trading partners will weigh on the domestic economy in future months.  Yesterday, Treasurer Wayne Swan said seven of the nation's top ten trading partners are in recession.  The Australian government has already announced two fiscal stimulus programs, worth a combined $52 billion, to shield the economy from the effects of a possible recession.  From April, farmers, students and low to middle-income earners are due to receive $900 cheques as part of a $12 billion fiscal allocation from the Rudd Government's second $42 billion stimulus package.  RBA governor Glenn Stevens told a parliamentary hearing in Canberra earlier in February that big rate cuts, fiscal stimulus programs and a weaker Australian dollar would help support domestic demand in 2009.  
