         Here you go AWB just what we were discussing yesterday.  From the article posted by Bottle:    The Taoiseach, Brian Cowen, told the Irish parliament yesterday that he was exploring &amp;amp;quot;all options&amp;amp;quot; to shore up the banks after the collapse of their share prices over recent days.   Shoring up banks with borrowed money is not the Australian scene.  Let me repeat for you:  No Australian bank has been exposed to sub-prime loans.  Every Australian bank is soundly based, well managed with ample reserves.  Every Australian bank is highly profitable.  Taking the ANZ bank I quoted yesterday that bank has suffered a fifty percent fall in it&amp;#039;s share price as all Australian banks have BUT the predicted profit will rise another 25% over the next two and a half years despite the world economic situation.  Now where do you think the disconnect is ?? Imv the investors are quite wrongly looking at the dropping share price rather than looking at the overall profitability of the bank. I ask you !! - continually rising profit coupled to a falling share price. It&amp;#039;s irrational in my view.  I&amp;#039;ll tell you something else too. BHP is still going to make 13 billion profit this FY and 10 billion the following year. Ten thousand million dollars profit is not chicken feed. Despite a slashing of the profit due to the quadupling of iron ore and coal prices this company is still sitting on a whacking great pile of money.  Another thing you don&amp;#039;t hear much about is the agricultural sector which is another big earner for us. There has been no suggestion of prices crashing or even easing. I guess people are still eating eh ??  On the other hand I&amp;#039;m still not as sanguine as you are about the UK economy and the availability of liquidity to keep propping it up. One thing you haven&amp;#039;t mentioned is that the only real commodity you have is that of oil and oil has crashed to half its value as you know. What this means is that the reduced tax take at the pumps and from the oil companies themselves is going to cause your Exchequer a real headache. As for your financial services sector which is so important to you surely the downturn will affect the profitability of that too.  I&amp;#039;m not so sure that you will have oodles of dosh to buy up  Australia.com  in the coming months. There&amp;#039;s still a lot of uncertainty isn&amp;#039;t there ??  Regards Harmy                  
