Thank you for your rating,  Your vote has been counted and is reflected above.  You have already rated this item,  Thank you for your support.  Tags: Gordon Brown, Michelle Obama  UK Flag Not Only Tradition No Longer Appreciated by Obamas'!  Washington,DC/ Covering the Upside Down Administration - In a week when Hollywood actor Brad Pitt received a warmer welcome than British PM Gordon Brown, Michelle Obama continues to clean house and decorate the White House in her own distorted image.  First it was the return of the Winston Churchill Bust, a gift of friendship and solidarity from PM Tony Blair after September 11. As a note of her distain, Michelle told an aide to send it regular mail, and not to bother to insure it.  UK officials are hopeful it will arrive back in London prior to Boxing Day.  Meanwhile, pictures of most of the Founding Fathers have been stripped from the walls, and unceremoniously stacked in the White House Basement, under the now declared war against the country's capitalistic enterprises.  The following American Icons have been dismissed:  Ethan Allen: 'We don't need no furniture store CEO hangin' round, no more!'  Haym Solomon: 'Don't need no financial genius and his investment company, we done got Tim Geithner!'  John Hancock: 'Damn insurance company bigot, AIG is all we can handle at the moment!'  Thomas Paine: 'Another pain in the ass, conservative town crier...reminds me of Rush...I don't need remindin' I'm wrong...WE WON!'  Betsy Ross: 'Don't need no seamstress. Get all my stuff from China now, and the shit costs less. What flag? That ain't my flag!'  Francis Scott Key: 'That country and western crap reminds me of slavery. We done got '50 cent' to tell it like it is!'  Thomas Jefferson: 'Time to get rid of that man...I don't care if I can trace my roots to him or not!  Ben Franklin: 'Don't need no low end discount store founder here, We be living high off the hog now...pass the Kolbe beef, wouldsa!'  To replace the icons, a historical history of current and past African leaders is being planned. The display is said to include a history of Idi Amin, who labeled all his failed economic and social policies 'racist', a plan that worked until he was forced into exile with a golden parachute bigger than John Thain's.  Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe, who took his country from being the 'bread basket' of the region, redistributed the wealth and farming country, to being the country with the highest inflation rate, ravaged with Chorea, and charged with stealing most of the UN funds sent as aid.  Kenya, where Obama claims an extended family, and strong ties, now designated a 'Kleptocracy', 'they can't stop stealing' according to watchdog spokesman Mwalimu Mati.  A special section is being set up for American icons as well, said to include  Charles Wrangle(sic), Rev. Al Sharpton, Marion Berry, Kwame Kilpatrick,  Rev. Wright, Alcee Hastings, and a host of other tainted archangels.  Vladmir Putin said he would be sending a 'Black Russian', if he could find one to round out the collection, although Michelle was said to have sniffed, 'I only drink Champagne now, and it ain't that shit from California either, I don't care if Pelosi squashed it with her own damn Pope Anointed Feet.!'  GRAPES OF WRATH? Dust Bowl to Follow.  
