Their 'tragic' number down to five points, the Reading Royals could be officially eliminated from playoff contention as early as this weekend.  It's not a shocking development.  Really, with so much ground to make up, playoffs ceased providing any incentive to these guys several weeks ago. Instead, they've looked to other forms of motivation, such as screwing up other teams' postseason hopes.  The Royals have a chance to add further chaos to the ECHL North Division race this weekend when they meet first-place Cincinnati tonight and Saturday at 7:05 p.m. at the Sovereign Center. 'You're the last-place team, playing the first-place team,' Reading coach Larry Courville said. 'You want to be a spoiler. We want to prove we can play with anyone in our league. We have to come out hungry and be ready to play a full 60 minutes.' As of Wednesday night, it was looking like the Royals (19-35-4) might struggle just to put together a full roster. With 10 players already in the AHL, they lost captain Mac Faulkner, leading scorer Brock Hooton and all-star defenseman Steve Ward to the Norfolk Admirals.  The trio skated Wednesday in Norfolk's 4-3 loss at Philadelphia, with Ward picking up an assist. Faulkner and Ward were immediately returned to the Royals, however, and practiced Thursday.  The Royals also got defenseman Gerard Miller back from the Lake Erie Monsters.  Courville said AHL affiliate Toronto could send down a player or two by tonight, as well, though he didn't rule out losing another guy. 'I'm sure there will be some phone calls today,' he said Thursday afternoon. So it appears as if the Royals got through the havoc of Wednesday's NHL trade deadline in decent shape. Now Courville will have to sweat out the AHL trade deadline, which comes March 11 at 3 p.m.  Meanwhile, rookie winger Erik Felde arrived in Reading Thursday. Felde, picked up Wednesday in a trade with Alaska for the ECHL rights to defenseman Tyson Marsh, could play tonight depending on the results of his physical. 'He's a very skilled, very fast skater,' Courville said. 'Very good shot. He'll either be the fastest guy on our team or close to it. He had some pretty decent numbers in junior. 'He played with (Royals center) Levi Nelson; Levi Nelson said some good things about the kid. I look forward to seeing him playing.' Reading and Cincinnati (32-21-5) saw each other a week and a half ago, when the Royals split a pair of mid-week games at U.S. Bank Arena.  Courville thought his team played well both nights. The Royals converted their power-play chances in their 3-1 win, but didn't capitalize on anything in their 5-0 loss.  They broke an 0-for-17 power-play skid in Sunday's 6-2 win against Dayton.  This weekend Reading will try to break through against the league's second worst penalty kill, while hoping its last-ranked penalty kill can hold off Cincinnati's sixth-ranked power play. 'Again,' Courville said, 'special teams are going to be the most important (key to beating Cincinnati).' Contact Don Stewart: 610-371-5065 or dstewart@readingeagle.com.
