Pensioners Phil and Bev Beveridge were robbed while shopping when a gang followed the unwitting pair to steal their money. Picture: Marcella Davie N38WG302  The thief reaches into the handbag hanging on Mrs Beveridge's wheelchair.  more photos  AN ELDERLY couple was stalked and then robbed for almost $3000 by four brazen thieves who cornered them inside a Monash shopping centre.  These shocking images show four suspects following Phil and Bev Beveridge from the ANZ bank on Kingsway in Glen Waverley  they had just withdrawn more than $2000  and into Centro the Glen where the premeditated theft took place.  A woman, of Middle Eastern appearance, is then seen distracting the couple before boldly reaching over to steal Mr Beveridges wallet, holding $2750, from inside a bag attached to his wifes wheelchair.  The other three men are seen blocking the woman from busy shoppers as she commits the crime.  Anybody who does this is sick and desperate, Mrs Beveridge told the Leader.  The money was going to set us up for the year (2009), and its going to take us about six months to make it up, Mr Beveridge said.  But the ordeal has not deterred the couple from leaving their home, and they still return to The Glen regularly.  You just have to get over these things, Mr Beveridge said.  It could happen anywhere to any shopper, and everyone should be vigilant.  Det Sen-Constable David Sims said police believed the couple were stalked and appealed for anyone with information to come forward about the December 30 theft.  During the early 1980s, the Beveridges worked as missionaries in Papua New Guinea with their adopted Sri Lankan daughter, Julie, now 36.  They also have a son, Stewart.  The couple have remained upbeat in recent years despite Mr Beveridge, a former accountant and Christian preacher, suffering three heart attacks.  Mrs Beveridge requires a wheelchair after having a tumour removed from her pituitary gland.  Anyone with information should contact Det Sen-Constable Sims on 9566 1578.  
