BETHESDA, Md. - A group of local customers and employees became heroes Friday afternoon after they reportedly chased down and restrained a bank robbery suspect in Bethesda. Montgomery County (web   news) police say they are investigating the robbery that took place at the Bank of America at 7316 Wisconsin Avenue.  Police say the suspect walked into the bank armed with pepper spray and demanded money. He used the spray on a teller and took off with thousands of dollars in cash, but he didn't leave alone. A number of customers and employees chased him for blocks. ABC 7 Talkback: One of those Good Samaritans was Brad Becker who says Friday was a typical day of scooping ice cream until he noticed the commotion quickly coming down the street. 'He was just sitting on the ground. He had the money just sitting out in front of him,' Becker said. Becker didn't think twice when he joined the mob of people trying to stop a man who just moments earlier allegedly robbed a Bethesda branch of Bank of America. The ice cream parlor employee snatched a cell phone away from the suspect who was clearly outnumbered. 'It was like he was messing around with it and when I looked at it was like a text message or something,' Becker said. 'I think it's great. I come from the military so you know for people to get involved and want to stand up and protect somebody,' added Christian Boyd, an office employee.   Bryan Guise, a waiter at Mon Ami Gabi in Bethesda, also decided to join in on the citizen's arrest. 'I saw my friend Sebastian who works at the bank running after the person so I assumed there was a bank robbery,' he said. 'We don't know exactly what he has.' While many say it was a brave act by a group of strangers turned heroes, police say it's not the best way to respond to a crime. '[It's] a double-edged sword. This time it worked out well, but we don't encourage people to interject themselves into a crime. It's really just to dangerous,' said Cmdr. Russ Hamil of the Montgomery County Police Department.   Police say the suspect has not yet been charged, but they have a warrant for 43-year-old Lawrence Patrick Gilmartin of the 100 block of 35th Street Northeast. They will be charging him with two counts of armed bank robbery -- one for Friday's robbery and another for a robbery at the same Bank of America that occurred on February 13, 2009. 
