 Standing at the bottom of the highest skyscraper in the state of Washington, Kory Burgess could feel his heart racing.  The 27-year-old Missoula firefighter had spent months climbing Mount Sentinel and the 10 flights of stairs at the University of Montana's Aber Hall with a 50-pound backpack. Seven days a week, and sometimes twice a day, Burgess hit the weights and spent hours on the treadmill. Despite his best efforts to prepare for Sunday's 18th annual Scott Firefighter Stairclimb competition, Burgess was also coming off a six-week sinus infection and cold.  The year before, Burgess, of Missoula Rural Fire, finished fourth in the stairclimb. This year, he wanted to be first. So minutes before the competition, Burgess took a few deep breaths to relax. He expected the next 11 minutes to be full of pain, aching muscles, heat and exhaustion. What Burgess couldn't have predicted was reaching the top of the skyscraper in record time.  Missoula firefighters proved this past weekend that they're some of the fittest in the country.  Three-person teams from Missoula Rural Fire and the Missoula City Fire Department placed first and second, respectively, in the competition - an event that attracts more than 1,500 firefighters from 244 departments in 25 states, as well as Canada, New Zealand and Germany.  For eight straight hours, firefighters climbed to the top of the skyscraper, 69 flights - 1,311 steps - starting 15 seconds apart.  The firefighters dress as though they're headed into a burning building, equipped with helmet, fire turnouts, boots, helmets, gloves, breathing apparatus and air mask, weighing a total 50 pounds.There's definitely some talk about what's in the water over here, said Burgess, who not only placed first, but topped the event's record time by 13 seconds - with a time of 10 minutes, 55 seconds.Missoula's fire departments have mandatory fitness programs, but the stairclimb challenge is a voluntary competition. The Scott Firefighter Stairclimb is a fundraiser for the Leukemia &amp; Lymphoma Society. The firefighters travel to Seattle on their own, which means 100 percent of the money raised goes to the charitable organization, said Missoula Rural Fire Chief Curt Belts.I think this accomplishment is absolutely phenomenal, said Belts. It brings good recognition to both of our departments and to Missoula. It puts our name in the national spotlight.For Burgess, a Kalispell native and UM graduate, it doesn't quite seem real, yet.  He still remembers the tick, tick, tick in his ear. It was a digital metronome. Stay to the beat. That was Burgess' strategy. And don't look at the floor numbers. As pain sets in around the 20th floor, Burgess said, it's not good to think about the remaining 49 flights left to climb.It gets you down, mentally, he said.The stairclimb is not like running. There is no second wind, he said, and it's monotonous.To pass the time, Burgess said he thought about all the cancer patients forced to undergo chemo and radiation treatments. The pain in his leg muscles can't compare to what that must feel like, he said.And they don't have a choice but to go through that pain, he said.By the 50th floor, you're pretty much maxed out, Burgess said, and the last 15 staircases are basically left to mind over matter.At that point, all you want to do is stop, he said.The staircase in the Columbia Center, formerly the Bank of America Tower, is narrow, making it difficult to pass other competitors at times. It's hot and the firefighters must use their mask and breathing apparatus, which only adds to the claustrophobic feeling.  Typically, the breathing apparatuses last half an hour, but with this much physical exertion, many firefighters have to change out their air tanks partway through the stairclimb. Not Burgess, though. When the safety alarm sounds on his air pack, he knows he'd better pick up the pace. Only two or three minutes to reach the top. Otherwise, his breathing apparatus goes empty.I've never won anything like this before, he said. It was a surreal experience.The firefighters have until April 1 to raise money for the Leukemia &amp; Lymphoma Society. Anyone interested in donating to the cause can do so online or contact Burgess or one of his teammates, Doug Swain or Caleb Craft, by calling the Missoula Rural Fire station at 549-6172.  You can also contact the Missoula City Fire Department team, which includes Andy Drobeck, Brad Roe and Robert Hanneman, at 552-6210.  Reporter Chelsi Moy can be reached at 523-5260 or at chelsi.moy@missoulian.com. Add your comment now! Write your comment in the form below.  (Email address is for verification only. If you'd like to email a story, l
