The Business Journal of the Greater Triad Area - by Steve Ivey Staff writer  Related News  The ripple effects of a sour economy have reached one of the Triads largest marketing agencies.  Trone, a marketing, advertising and branding firm in High Point, laid off 13 employees last week out of a total staff of about 100.  Will Spivey, Trones managing partner, said the agency does not discuss specific clients, but he said two clients cut back their advertising budgets, and another client was acquired by a different company with other marketing goals.  This downturn is pretty broad-based, he said. They were clients who were directly affected by the overall economy.  Spivey said the layoffs were across all areas of Trones business and not focused in any one department. He said he did not believe the agency would cut any more jobs.  Were still focusing on delivering value to our clients, and in an economy like this, theyre all looking to be more efficient, he said. They expect the same from us.  Recent projections for advertising spending in 2009 have been grim. UBS analyst Michael Morris wrote that he expects a 6 percent decline in U.S. ad spending next year  representing $11 billion in reduced spending. Anthony DiClemente, an analyst with Barclays, expects a 5.5 percent cut in spending.  By comparison, ad spending declined 6.2 percent during the 2001 recession.  And according to TNS Media Intelligence, the top three industries in advertising last year were automotive, retail and financial services  three areas that have all been hit hard by this years economic downturn.  Other Triad agencies have seen clients cut back on their marketing budgets this year. Woodbine reduced its staff by four positions in March. And five of last years 25 largest agencies in the Triad reported smaller staffs this year than in 2007, according to Business Journal research.  I would imagine there are a lot of companies out there like Trone who are having to face some tough decisions, said Lew Brown, a marketing professor at UNC-Greensboro.  Demand for an agencys services depends on the demand their clients are seeing themselves. But companies, I would argue, should see marketing and promotion costs as an investment, not an expense. Its an easy cut to make sometimes. But you have to maintain customer awareness of your brand if youre ever going to be successful.  
