Richard Paxton has been appointed centre director for the Headrow Shopping Centre in Leeds, which is currently being redeveloped. Paxton was previously centre director for the Wigan Galleries shopping centre and Martineau Place in Birmingham. He will now look after the Headrow Centre, which, once its 30m transformation is completed, will relaunch as The Core. Kimberley Fletcher has joined specialist healthcare product manufacturer Xiros.Fletcher will be working at the Xiros headquarters in Horsforth, Leeds, on innovative medical textile implants for minimally invasive and tissue-sparing surgery. Lynn Durham has been appointed managing partner at Jordans Solicitors.Durham, a partner with the firm, is trained in collaborative law.Jordans has offices in Dewsbury, Wakefield and Castleford. Mark Rothery has been promoted to the position of partner at property consultancy Knight Frank.Rothery, a retail and leisure expert who has worked at Knight Frank in Leeds since 2000, became an associate two years ago. Wensleydale Creamery, in Hawes, North Yorkshire, has strengthened its business foundations with the appointment of an industry expert as non-executive chairman.Matthew Gribbin has more than 25 years' experience in the chilled food and dairy sector, largely at senior director level.At the same time, Richard Clarke has been re-appointed director. He was a founding director of the company following its management buyout in 1992, standing down from the board in 2002. Commercial property consultancy Lambert Smith Hampton (LSH) has strengthened its Yorkshire offices with three promotions to associate director.Chris Garlick is based at the firm's Sheffield office while Rob Kaye and Mark Leckey are based in Leeds. Independent insurance broker Heath Lambert Group is strengthening its Leeds operation with two appointments.Richard Hanson joins as development executive and David Fryer has been appointed account director. Solicitors and estate agency Emsleys has promoted two team members from its commercial property and family law departments.Matthew Walsh, who has headed up the commercial property department since he joined the Leeds firm as an associate solicitor in February 2007, has been promoted to the role of senior associate.Tina Abbott has also been promoted to the role of senior associate within Emsleys solicitors. She joined the company in 2001 as head of the family law department. Barclays Asset &amp;amp; Sales Finance has announced a trio of appointments for its commercial finance team in Leeds, as it continues to expand.Johnny Abraham joins the team as associate director, sales, covering Yorkshire and the North-East.Andrew Robbins joins the team as relationship manager and Chris Todd is relationship assistant. Jet2.com and Jet2holidays.com have appointed Alan Cross as group trade sales manager.Cross has 30 years' experience in the travel industry. Law firm Lupton Fawcett has launched Family Partners, a specialist team within the firm's personal legal services division, set up to offer people a holistic approach to resolving relationship breakdown issues and family disputes.The team is headed by Anne Braithwaite, one of the region's leading family lawyers, and assisted by Vanessa Stirum, an experienced family mediator. Harrowells has strengthened its family law team with the appointment of Philip Goodall, a solicitor advocate (Higher Courts Civil) and expert in care proceedings.A trained mediator, and a member of the Solicitors Regulation Authority Children Panel, Goodall is one of only a small number of solicitors in the region who can represent clients in all courts, including the Court of Appeal and the House of Lords on Family Law matters. Paul Gibbon has joined Yorkshire law firm Keeble Hawson as a partner in the commercial property division. He joins the Sheffield office from Wake Smith &amp;amp; Tofields, where he had been a partner.He specialises in all aspects of commercial property work with particular expertise in investment acquisitions and disposals, commercial landlord and tenant, development site acquisition and secured lending. Yorkshire law firm Gordons has announced the appointment of eight new trainee solicitors to strengthen its two offices and add to its ambitious growth plans.The appointments in Leeds and Bradford represent the firm's annual trainee intake and they will join Gordons' existing teams in commercial litigation, commercial property, personal law, corporate and risk and compliance departments.Joining the Leeds office are Amanda Blacker, Louise Tatton, Jocelyn White, Grace Cowling, and Oliver Turner.New arrivals at the Bradford office are Greg Dixon, Mark Jones and Gareth Miles. The full article contains 734 words and appears in n/a newspaper. Page 1 of 1 
