CARLSBAD, Calif., Oct. 31 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Dot Hill Systems Corp. today announced participation in the following upcoming financial conferences: AeA Classic Financial Conference Presentation Date: Wednesday, November 5, 2008 Presentation Time: 10:00 a.m. PT Location: Manchester Grand Hyatt Hotel, San Diego, Calif. Scheduled Presenter: Dana Kammersgard, President and Chief Executive Officer Barclays Capital Technology Conference Presentation Date: Wednesday, December 10, 2008 Presentation Time: 3:00 p.m. PT Location: The Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco, Calif. Scheduled Presenter: Dana Kammersgard, President and Chief Executive Officer The company's presentations will be webcast live and will be available on the Dot Hill web site at www.dothill.com in the Investor Relations section. Delivering innovative technology and global support, Dot Hill empowers the OEM community to bring unique storage solutions to market, quickly, easily and cost-effectively. Offering high performance and industry-leading uptime, Dot Hill's RAID technology is the foundation for best-in-class storage solutions offering enterprise-class security, availability and data protection. The company's products are in use today by the world's leading service and equipment providers, common carriers, advanced technology and telecommunications companies as well as government agencies. Dot Hill solutions are certified to meet rigorous industry standards and military specifications, as well as RoHS and WEEE international environmental standards. Headquartered in Carlsbad, Calif., Dot Hill has offices and/or representatives in China, Germany, Japan, United Kingdom and the United States. For more information, visit us at http://www.dothill.com/. Certain statements contained in this press release regarding matters that are not historical fact are 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Because forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking statements include Dot Hill's actual presentation at these conferences, the level of interest in the presentations, any change in Dot Hill's stock price due to its presentations and Dot Hill's future financial results. The risks that contribute to the uncertain nature of the forward-looking statements include the volatile and unpredictable nature of the stock market, including the value of Dot Hill's stock, as well as unforeseen technological, intellectual property or engineering issues. However, there are many other risks not listed here that may affect us, as well as the forward-looking statements contained herein. To learn about such risks and uncertainties, read the risk factors set forth in the forms 10-K, 8-K and 10-Q recently filed by us. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they were made. We undertake no obligation to update such statements to reflect circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.Web site: http://www.dothill.com/   PR Newswire. All Rights Reserved 
