 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   WPL, SGB, WBC, CBA, LLC, FXJ, NHC, KCN, TEN, TAH, SHL, FPA, ABS,   AFP 2008-11-14   The World Trade Organisation is facing growing calls from both sides of the Atlantic for a fresh ministerial meeting before the year is out to clinch a liberalisation deal that has proved elusive for seven years.  The last attempt in July by WTO Director-General Pascal Lamy to bring the Doha Round of talks to a close ended in ignominious failure after the United States and India clashed over measures to protect poor farmers against import surges.  But in recent weeks several key players have hinted a deal could be close to hand, raising the prospect of another ministerial meeting in December. 'With leadership and determination, a Doha deal is within our grasp as the details of a final agreement could be agreed within weeks,' new EU Trade Commissioner Catherine Ashton said in Brussels on Tuesday.  In the meantime however all eyes will be on this weekend's G20 summit meeting in Washington - and beyond that, on any signals from the camp of US President-elect Barack Obama, who occasionally struck a protectionist note during his election campaign.  Carin Smaller of the Geneva-based Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy (IATP), said that even if a deal were struck at any meeting in December, its ratification in the United States would not be one of Obama's main priorities. 'I do not expect that he will be a revolutionary in world trade terms,' she told AFP. 'The Doha Round will be neither his first nor his second priority.' The current chief US trade negotiator, Susan Schwab - who might step down when President George W Bush leaves office on January 20 - also urged the G20 to show a commitment to securing a WTO deal during their meeting. 'At this critical time it is all the more important that we not only avoid retrenchment in market opening, but move ahead with an ambitious and balanced Doha Round that creates new trade flows and generates economic opportunities worldwide,' she said in Brussels on Tuesday following a meeting with Ashton.  Lamy himself, who recently announced he was seeking a second term at the helm of the WTO, repeated his oft-expressed view that a deal is 'doable' if member states show the necessary commitment. 'My sense is that we are not that far away from our objective of concluding the round, even if a number of tough nuts remain to be cracked,' particularly on agriculture and industrial goods, he said.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy gave a further indication of the obstacles negotiators must surmount when he suggested that the parameters of the talks could be reviewed. 'We are all agreed that protectionism would be a catastrophe,' he said. That said, 'one has to at some moment or other pose the question of a reform of the conditions of the negotiations.' Sarkozy clashed publicly with the then-EU trade chief Peter Mandelson over the July summit, fearing that the British commissioner was making too many concessions on agriculture.  The Doha round of multilateral trade liberalisation talks was launched in the Qatari capital Doha in November 2001 but has foundered ever since in disputes between developing and industrialised nations.  Developing countries have been pressing for greater access to agricultural markets in the industrialised world. Developed nations are in return seeking a better deal for their manufactured products on developing country markets.  Aude Marcovitch
