By Political Bureau  South Africa's biggest retail banking group has rejected allegations by the ANC Youth League that it's backing the new political party to be launched by former Defence Minister Mosiuoa Lekota and former Gauteng Premier Mbhazima Shilowa.  On Tuesday, the ANCYL sent 'a strong warning' to Absa, saying it was aware that Wendy Luhabe, Shilowa's wife, was the main funder of the new party - and Absa chairperson Gill Marcus was co-hosting 'a bogus special luncheon' at Absa to help mobilise support. 'Absa should come out very clear on its relations and engagement with political formations in South Africa so that we can have a thorough understanding on (sic) what Absa really represents,' said league spokesperson Floyd Shivambu in a statement.  He called on Trade and Industry Minister Mandisi Mpahlwa to investigate whether Luhabe was not 'abusing her position in the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) to misdirect funds into the rebel political party'. Luhabe could not be reached for comment on Tuesday night.  Absa responded two hours later, saying the allegations were 'wholly unfounded' - having already made contact with the ANCYL in a bid to clear up 'the apparent misunderstanding'. Absa's group executive in charge of communication and public relations, Makhosini Nkosi, said the group set aside R2,5-million a year for political parties registered with the IEC and which won at least three seats in parliament. 'This is the only basis on which Absa funds political parties,' Nkosi said. He said Marcus had, over a number of years, hosted a number of events aimed at enhancing women's empowerment, with a particular focus on leadership, business and finance. 'The proposed year-end lunch for women was one (event) that has been held on previous occasions and there is no substance to allegations that it was intended to serve a political end,' Nkosi said. Shilowa declined to comment when contacted on Tuesday night.  Shivambu could not be reached for comment as his cellphone was switched off. Ironically, one of ANC president Jacob Zuma's biggest backers - tycoon Tokyo Sexwale - has a significant stake in Absa through empowerment company Batho Bonke.  Independent Newspapers has established that the CEO of Sexwale's Mvelaphanda Group, Yolanda Cuba, serves as a director on the boards of Absa Group and subsidiary, Absa Bank.  In 2005, UK banking giant Barclays put up R31-billion to buy a majority shareholding in Absa in the South Africa's biggest foreign direct investment deal at the time.  Absa's empowerment partner in the deal was Batho Bonke in which Sexwale and ANC national treasurer, Mathews Phosa, were still active directors as of last year.  The deal saw Sexwale secure options to the estimated value of R250-million, while his business partner, Mark Wilcox, walked away with options estimated at more than R70-million.  Sexwale was from 2001 also a director of Absa Group, Absa Bank and Absa Asset Management - but resigned earlier this year.  Batho Bonke hit the headlines ahead of the ANC's watershed Polokwane conference last December, when it emerged that Sexwale had given shares in it to, among others, Phosa, former Northern Cape premier-turned-businessman Manne Dipico, former ANC head of the presidency Smuts Ngonyama, political commentator Xolela Mangcu and National Intelligence Agency Director-General Manala Manzini.  This is not the first time Absa has found itself embroiled in political controversy.   The bank raised eyebrows by forking out R1,43-million for Ronald Suresh Roberts' biography of former President Thabo Mbeki after former Minister in the Presidency, Essop Pahad, approached the bank on Roberts' behalf.  In 1999, there was an outcry when the bank wrote off R6-million in debt owed by the defunct New National Party.  Nkosi said on Tuesday: 'Absa remains an apolitical organisation and we would not get the company involved in the political activities of any party.'This article was originally published on page 1 of  on November 05, 2008 
