The Reserve Bank governor, Glenn Stevens, may want everyone to start whistling Don't Worry, Be Happy but his wishes appear to have been overtaken by a nasty dose of reality.  Just hours after his speech on Wednesday night - in which he urged Australians to remain positive - the US Federal Reserve painted a particularly gloomy picture of the American economy, with growing unemployment, a looming recession and the possibility of an extended period of deflation.  US authorities have slashed interest rates during the past few months and now only have a limited amount of weaponry in their monetary arsenal to combat the looming recession.  Why is this important to us?  We've been patting ourselves on the back here that our banks have not just weathered the financial storms that have changed the face of global finance, but have emerged in tip-top shape.  National Australia Bank had the biggest exposure to the synthetic financial instruments that destroyed most of Wall Street's investment banks, forced the British Government into bank nationalisations and created havoc in Europe. But NAB's exposure, while an embarrassment, was certainly not a catastrophe.  ANZ Banking Group was exposed to and suffered the ignominy of watching a series of margin loan brokers - which it had funded - blow themselves up. The worst of these, Opes Prime, attracted legal action from those who found ANZ in possession of their shares.  While the numbers were large, they were not enough to cause any serious damage to ANZ. Our other two big banks, Westpac Banking Corporation and Commonwealth Bank of Australia both were hailed as relative cleanskins.  That was then.  For most of this year our big banks have managed to keep a number of rather sick corporations on life support. The hope was that the credit crisis would be a short-term phenomenon and, once the climate improved, the mess could be sorted out.  That hasn't happened. With a deteriorating global economy, many of those corporates are looking extremely vulnerable, which has created more than a little heartburn in the head offices of our biggest banks, particularly the Commonwealth.  When ABC Learning Centres and Allco Finance collapsed, the Commonwealth suddenly found itself thrust into the limelight for all the wrong reasons. On those two companies alone, CBA extended $780 million in loans. Westpac was also exposed, but far less so, with $400 million in loans. On Thursday, Babcock &amp;amp; Brown, the once high-flying investment firm, was forced to suspend itself from trading when a key member of its 27-strong banking syndicate lost faith and refused to allow Babcock &amp;amp; Brown access to its own deposits.  It takes just one bank to become nervous in these big banking syndicates for the entire syndicate to unravel. Once that happens, there is almost no future.  B&amp;amp;B now is in serious doubt. And CBA is a big lender to the group. It has a $200 million secured loan to the parent company and a $350 million loan to Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Power.  There could be worse to come. Centro Properties - the first Australian company to feel the heat in the global credit crisis - faces a bleak future. It has a huge portfolio of properties in the US, where the economy is about to go backwards and where property prices already have collapsed.  Its share price is below 5c and CBA again is a big lender. It has admitted to $1 billion in loans to Centro but some analysts believe that it could hold more. While the bank argues that it has better security over its loans than other banks, this is questionable. Most of the CBA loans were made to the corporation while other lenders have taken security over shopping malls, which would give them more comfort if Centro ever is wound up.  All our banks are exposed to Centro, but none to the same extent as the Commonwealth. As the global economy deteriorates, all our banks will suffer as their exposure to bad debts rises. But CBA is looking particularly vulnerable.  YOU HAVE TO wonder just what goes through the mind of a failed entrepreneur. Certainly not remorse, if Eddy Groves is any example. Last week, your columnist explained why a corporation could not compete with a family-run business in an industry such as child care, because it could never achieve economies of scale by amalgamating child-care centres.  Groves took offence at the piece and fired off a complaint, the gist of which was that ABC achieved a level of excellence of which he was proud.  He also complained that your correspondent made several errors with regard to his personal financial position. He apparently was upset that I was too conservative in my assessment of his wealth.  So here goes. For the record, Eddy owns the silver Mercedes Kompressor, the one with BULLETS number plates. And that 87-foot Warren yacht moored at the Versace marina on the Gold Coast belongs to Eddy as well. As for his $800,000 payout from ABC Learning, Groves was entitled to the cash but the company never offered it.  The company has collapsed, owing $1.6 billion, shareholders have lost a fortune, thousands of workers have their jobs on the line.  And Eddy Groves? He's hired a public relations firm to protect his image.  
