Sir Rod, a former head of Cathay Pacific Airways and British Airways, will replace Charles Goode and join the board early in the second half of 2009.   ''It is particularly pleasing to have someone of Sir Rod's calibre join the Board and succeed me,'' Mr Goode said. ''His experience and success in Australia and internationally, including extensive experience in Asia, will be a significant asset for ANZ.''  ANZ shares were down 5 cents, or 0.3%, at $15.63 in midday trade, trading at about half their year-high level of $29.05.  ANZ, along with local rivals, has been hit by a string of corporate failures, including broker Opus Prime. Its chief executive, Mike Smith, joined the bank from Euro-Asian banking heavyweight HSBC with an aim of building on the ANZ's presence in Asia.  Mr Goode has been a director at the bank since 1991 and became its chairman in 1995.  Eddington everywhere  Sir Rod has held a slew of senior business and policy roles.  Apart from his time at Hong Kong-based Cathay, Mr Eddington was a former CEO of British Airways. He is currently a director of companies including Rio Tinto and News Corp.  His resume boasts 18 years in executive roles in Asia, ANZ said in its release. He remains on the boards of China Light &amp;amp; Power, a major energy supplier in Hong Kong, and John Swire &amp;amp; Son Pty Ltd, which controls Cathay Pacific.  Sir Rod is also on the board of failed investment bank, Allco Finance Group, ANZ noted. He is also non-executive Chairman of JP Morgan (Australia and New Zealand).  Sir Rod also headed the Victorian Government's panel examining infrastructure projects in the state, and was a business advisor to Prime Minister Kevin Rudd prior to the latter's election to office a year ago.  Other board changes over the next 12 months include preparation for the retirement of Margaret Jackson and Jerry Ellis.   Ms Jackson will retire in March 2009 after serving 15 years on ANZ's board, while Mr Ellis will retire at ANZ's 2009 annual meeting after 14 years of service.   They will be replaced by Peter Hay and Alison Watkins who will stand for election at the bank's annual meeting on December 18 in Brisbane.
