 THE doom and gloom of the worlds financial markets isnt a time for panic.  However, getting the right advice is a key to avoiding the pitfalls of the current economic and investment climate.  Darryl Gobbett, adviser and chief economist for WHK Group is regarded as an expert in his field and will visit Bathurst on Tuesday, November 25.  He is here at the invitation of WHK (Bathurst) to conduct two presentations.  Take a look at your portfolio, Mr Gobbett said.  The drop in share prices may not necessarily have an impact on that particular business.  Theres some good companies out there. BHP, Rio, Woodside .... the world still wants resource products.  Look at oil, at $50 a barrel this is just not sustainable.  My advice is not to panic. Have a close look at the business youve invested in as if it were a small business. Dont sell because others are selling at what we think are silly prices.  Be selective. Leave things for another week or two and see how the US and Japanese markets settle down. Prices could go cheaper.  Mr Gobbett has given the Western Advocate his top five tips for shares to add to your portfolio.  They include BHP, Woodside Petroleum, Woolworths, Macquarie Bank and Incitec Pivot.  The NAB at $18 is worth looking at, but I would prefer Commonwealth and Westpac because they are more domestically focused and have good fund management operations, he said.  Brian Weal, principal at WHK, said Bathurst has a large business community operating across a spread of industries from primary producers to manufacturing to retailing.  Given the impact that the current climate can have on regional areas, we felt that there was an opportunity to provide the local community with relevant information about the economic climate,  he said.  Darryl is extremely adept at explaining current market events in plain English and he is an expert in his field. We are looking forward to sharing  his knowledge with our clients and community members.  The two seminars will be held on Tuesday, November 25.  The first is a lunch presentation by Mr Gobbett to local business leaders on the Global Economy and Impact on Regional Business.  The second seminar, Investing in a Bear Market will take place in the evening and is open to all WHK clients and interested parties to attend. Following each session, Mr Gobbett will be available to answer further questions.
