St George chairman warns of job losses Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   WPL, SGB, WBC, CBA, LLC, FXJ, NHC, KCN, TEN, TAH, SHL, FPA, ABS,   AAP 2008-11-13   St George Bank Ltd chairman John Curtis says the proposal by Westpac Banking Corp to take over Australia's fifth largest Bank under a scrip deal is very compelling, despite the prospect of job losses.  St George shareholders will vote on the plan at an extraordinary general meeting being held in Sydney Thursday.  The offer has already been recommended by St George directors. 'The Westpac proposal was about bringing together two very successful businesses with iconic brands and complementary cultures and therefore it made great strategic sense,' Mr Curtis said. 'Bringing them together in a way which preserves St George's operating model and unique culture made even more sense particularly for customers, staff and shareholders.' Mr Curtis said no one knows the bank's culture like Gail Kelly, the former chief executive of St George who now heads up Westpac.  But he warned there may be job losses. 'Yes, unfortunately there may well be some job losses, mainly in the back office and head office functions, which are inevitable with any merger,' Mr Curtis said. 'But Westpac have given a commitment to minimise job losses through natural attrition and redeployment wherever possible. 'However, whilst the board understands that there will be some inevitable short-term pain, the acceptance of the Westpac proposal is all about trying to create a stronger and even better bank for customers, staff and shareholders over the ensuing years, particularly having regard to the current uncertain economic outlook.' Westpac is offering 1.31 of its shares for every St George share. St George shareholders will also receive a special dividend payment. 'I believe that this merger represents a real win/win for all parties,' Mr Curtis said. He added that St George had performed well in fiscal 2008 and had 'punched above its weight'. But all banks are facing very difficult and turbulent financial times. 'Despite the recent action taken by the Australian government, our financial services sector is expected to continue facing a number of challenges in the coming year,' Mr Curtis said. 'These include softening growth across the broader Australian economy, slower growth in lending products and an increase in credit defaults. 'In this environment, the earnings growth for all banks, including St George, is expected to slow.' Mr Curtis said if the merger is not approved on Thursday the bank will continue to operate as a stand alone entity.
