With apologies for the asterisks, let alone the poor taste, these are the words to the song directed at Portsmouth's Sol Campbell by a section of Tottenham supporters at Fratton Park last Sunday:Sol, Sol, wherever you may be,Not long now til lunacy,And we couldn't give a f***,When you're hanging from a tree,Judas **** with HIV.(Repeat louder, smiles on faces optional).Put yourself in Campbell's shoes for a moment and consider the impact that this song, cranked up at various times during Tottenham's 2-0 defeat on the south coast, had on the Portsmouth defender.Scroll down for moreHelping hand: Portsmouth boss Harry Redknapp puts an arm around Sol Campbell at the end of his ordeal against SpursOf course, Campbell will never be forgiven by Spurs supporters for his controversial transfer to north London rivals Arsenal in the summer of 2001.That was the quid-pro-quo when he swapped Tottenham for trophies.More from Ash Wednesday...ASH WEDNESDAY: Sorry seems to be the hardest word for Chelsea's Didier Drogba, whose apology for Moscow red mist must be lost in Scotch mist  23/09/08ASH WEDNESDAY: Magic Juande's Spurs revolution is all lost in translation down the Lane 16/09/08ASH WEDNESDAY: West Ham's bullet points - Hammers didn't get the man they wanted but at least the fans know how they got him 09/09/08ASH WEDNESDAY: Tottenham's 'brain trust' prove to be more horror than romantic comedy in the transfer market 03/09/08Fergie 'ordered' Campbell to join Spurs after Wigan bid put Berba deal in doubt 02/09/08Spurs called to buy striker Kevin Doyle but Reading failed to answer the phone 02/09/08Real Madrid call Chelsea deplorable after latest in Robinho saga 01/09/08Transfer window is a pane as Mears gives Jewell the slip 28/08/08Fair enough, but is this song a fair trade?Campbell: subjected to intolerable abuseNotwithstanding the fact that someone, somewhere, will proudly lay claim to be the author of this vicious song, take the words in isolation.'Not long now til lunacy... when you're hanging from a tree', is a reference to his infamous half-time walkout against West Ham in February 2006, when he went missing for the best part of a week, turned up in Belgium and then sought the help of a psychologist to overcome his traumas.'Judas ****', is the unconventional way of reminding him that he took the pound note when he signed for Arsenal;'...with HIV', is a nod firmly in the direction of the persistent rumours that Campbell is a homosexual.To think that some supporters could barely get the words out of their mouths because they were laughing so much, the FA would dearly love to wipe some of the smiles off their faces.They went some way towards addressing the issue on Monday evening when they released a strongly worded statement condemning homophobic and racist chanting at football grounds.'We takes these matters seriously and will investigate any alleged case we are made aware of, taking action where necessary,' thundered the FA statement.So what is stopping them? Portsmouth Football Club, that's who.The FA's regulations are so draconian they claim they are powerless to act unless Portsmouth make an official complaint to Soho Square. So far, they have not heard a word from Pompey chief executive Peter Storrie.Alerted to the precise wording of the chant, Storrie considered the club's position on Monday evening. This is the dilemma:Are Tottenham supporters, visiting Fratton Park once a year, really Portsmouth's problem?Uncomfortable: Spurs chairman Daniel LevyHaving beaten Tottenham 2-0, do they really want to stir up trouble and make a complaint against a fellow Barclays Premier League club? Do they want to show support for their player and make a moral stand?Sadly the answer to all three is No.This is not Portsmouth's problem, of course. It is not just Tottenham's. It is football's.Harry Redknapp is to be admired, branding Spurs supporters 'filth' for continuing to direct abuse at their former captain and yet his club are reluctant to take the matter to the authorities.The FA are itching to take it on, privately urging Storrie - an FA board member - to fire off the letter that will put this incident, by no means isolated, firmly in the public eye.'We will come down hard on them if Portsmouth make a formal complaint,' is the word from Soho Square.By all accounts, Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy became increasingly uncomfortable in the director's box when the travelling supporters became more and more voluble on Sunday.Officials at Spurs are to be applauded for their own stance at White Hart Lane, threatening ejection, life bans and possible arrest for any supporter found guilty of Public Order offences. Good on them.For years, this club suffered the ignorance of opposition supporters 'hissing' at them in great numbers, a particularly distressing reference to the Holocaust.Privately, Tottenham were embarrassed by the behaviour of some of their increasingly militant supporters on Sunday, noting that the depth of ill-feeling towards Campbell appears to be on the increase and pointing out that the performance of the team is hardly helping.Hampshire Police hardly covered themselves in glory, either. Having patted themselves on the back for complaining to the FA they neglected their own obligations, namely arresting the supporters responsible.According to the constabulary responsible for policing Portsmouth home games, Spurs supporters were singing in such numbers that it was impossible to arrest them all. Is that really an excuse? What bunkum.No doubt Tottenham supporters will respond to this column, claiming that they are being singled out and victimised for their behaviour on Sunday.What they have to remember is that football, more than ever before, has a social responsibility and a moral obligation. Nearly 500,000 people click through turnstiles at Premier League grounds ever week, many of them impressionable young children.It would take a brave man to turn on his own supporters. Before that happens, someone will have to turn them in.Having successfully campaigned for 'Magic Juande' Ramos to start speaking in English to the media, he is now passing off a decent impression of former Tottenham player and manager Osvaldo Ardiles. On second thoughts.So why did Mike Ashley plump for Joe Kinnear? Well if some of the regulars in the Orange Tree in Totteridge, north London, are to be believed, the unlikely pairing often talk football over a pint in their local pub. Looks like one night they had one too many.Read laterEmail to a friendShare this article:View allAdd your commentsComments (9)Here's what readers have had to say so far. Why not add your thoughts below?Maybe it is because every club has the same problem. I know when Portsmouth play Southampton there is vicious abuse towards the opposition players and fans. The abuse Spurs get from West Ham fans is usually Jewish racism full of hate. It is fine trying to pick on Spurs but please lets have a run down of this every week as it happens somewhere in the country. I'm not saying it is right, but hit every club don't just pick on Spurs as everyone likes to do at the moment. If you feel it is that bad then ban the fans from the fixtures where it will happen. In fact close all the grounds as the referees will be abused for their dreadful decisions at every match around the country every week. Some of that can be pretty hateful when you don't get the penalties you should. What am I saying let's pick on Spurs again for that.- S Thomas, Peterborough, England, 01/10/2008 11:35
