Get involved: send your photos, videos, news &amp;amp; views by texting  Police have charged a 21-year-old man with assaulting the cousin of a banker who died following a city centre brawl.Detectives said Daniel Moy, of Costessey, near Norwich, had been accused of attacking Frank McGarahan's cousin in Norwich in the early hours of Sunday.A spokesman said the charge did not relate to the death of the chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth.Police are continuing to question two other men - both in their early 20s and from the Norwich area - in connection with the murder of Mr McGarahan.Magistrates have granted a warrant for the further detention of the pair, police said.A police spokesman said Moy had been released on bail and would appear before Norwich Magistrates' Court on October 15.   Remember When...  THE identity of this distinguished family and the date of this old photograph is a mystery, but it could help one man reveal who his grandfather was. The historical and architectural importance of St Marys, Lydiard Tregoz, was recognized in Simon Jenkins book Englands Thousand Best Churches, published in 1999. A SQUADRON steeped in British military history and inevitable tragedy is finally bringing it to life. The temporary Central Library closes its doors for the last time this weekend, but members will have to curb their enthusiasm for another few weeks before the opening of the new Swindon Borough flagship building in Regents Circus. THE identity of this distinguished family and the date of this old photograph is a mystery, but it could help one man reveal who his grandfather was. The historical and architectural importance of St Marys, Lydiard Tregoz, was recognized in Simon Jenkins book Englands Thousand Best Churches, published in 1999. A SQUADRON steeped in British military history and inevitable tragedy is finally bringing it to life. The temporary Central Library closes its doors for the last time this weekend, but members will have to curb their enthusiasm for another few weeks before the opening of the new Swindon Borough flagship building in Regents Circus. 
