Frank McGarahan paid 'the ultimate price', his brother saidThree men are being questioned over the death of a banker who was killed when he tried to stop an attack on a couple.Frank McGarahan, 45, chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, died after suffering head injuries in the assault in Norwich, early on Sunday. His brother Tony McGarahan said he paid the 'ultimate price' for being a good citizen. Norfolk Police arrested three locals aged in their early 20s on Tuesday, and began questioning them. Frank McGarahan died in hospital the day after the attack. Tony McGarahan said his brother's death was a 'mindless murder' and his family would 'never truly recover' from the loss. He said his brother, who was from Hertfordshire, 'did what was natural to him to try and help someone because they needed help'. 'He would not and could not stand by and watch a defenceless young lad and his girlfriend, who were in a taxi queue after enjoying being out together, being mindlessly attacked by a large group of grown men,' Mr McGarahan said. 'We will always be proud of Frank and we will never ever forget him. 'We will never understand how or why anyone could murder such a decent, caring and loving man.' Mr McGarahan said his family was caring for his late brother's wife and children. The arrested men are being held in custody in police stations across Norfolk. Norfolk Police said Mr McGarahan had been spending an evening out with friends and family when he saw a 35-year-old homeless Lithuanian man being attacked while he walked his dog with his girlfriend, 45, from Norfolk. A bouncer from a nearby strip club, Darryl Lawton, had his jaw fractured when he tried to break up the fight, police said. Det Supt Chris Hobley said: '(Mr McGarahan) witnessed an assault while queuing for a taxi on Guildhall Hill, after which he sustained a fatal injury. 'Officers are reviewing CCTV footage from around the city centre area and following up a number of lines of inquiry.' Barclays Wealth employs 7,700 staff in 20 countries and manages assets worth 133bn. 
