 A banker was beaten to death after helping a homeless man who was assaulted in a city centre, police said today. Married Frank McGarahan (pictured), 45, chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, was set upon by a group of around four men in Norwich at 3am on Sunday. The father of two young children, of Much Hadham, Hertfordshire, had been queuing for a taxi with relatives at the time of the attack. Detective superintendent Chris Hobley said Mr McGarahan witnessed an assault on a homeless Lithuanian man, in his late twenties, who was walking a dog with his girlfriend, from Norfolk. Mr Hobley said there was an 'exchange of words' and moments later the banker was set upon by the group of youths, aged between late teens and early twenties. Casually dressed Mr McGarahan, along with his brother and cousin, were all caught up in the brawl. The banker was knocked unconscious and taken to hospital with his cousin, who received less serious injuries. Details of the incident came as it emerged that one of Mr McGarahan's brothers, Tony, is the interim communications manager of the Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley. The night before Mr McGarahan's murder, he was fielding calls from reporters about the future of the troubled bank, which was nationalised yesterday. It was not clear which brother was at the scene of the attack in Norwich in the early hours of Sunday. Police said Mr McGarahan, who had spent a 'quiet night' enjoying a family meal and drinks at various bars, walked about 20 yards to the scene of the attack after witnessing it unfold from a taxi rank. 'It was seen by Mr McGarahan and two other family members who were with him - his brother and cousin,' said Mr Hobley. 'As it finished, it seems he walked across to that location. There seemed to be an exchange of words with those responsible for that earlier assault. 'Then there is a fight, during which Mr McGarahan is injured. All three of them got caught up.' Mr Hobley said no weapon was used in the assault. 'Our understanding is there were a number of punches and kicks,' he said. Mr McGarahan did not regain consciousness following the incident and was pronounced dead at about 12.15pm yesterday. Mr Hobley said he could understand why Mr McGarahan decided to get involved. 'He has clearly taken a view of seeing someone suffer an assault,' he said. 'That view is understandable.' Mr Hobley, who is leading the murder inquiry, said he had spoken to the wealthy banker's relatives. 'They say he was a very much loved member of the family - a father, husband, son, brother,' he said. 'They are clearly very distressed at what has happened and are desperately trying to come to terms with things.' Police said the Lithuanian man received medical attention following the incident but was not seriously injured. Officers said a bouncer from a nearby strip club suffered a fractured jaw after intervening in the fight.
