Married Frank McGarahan, 45, chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, attempted to stop an assault on a homeless man in Norwich city centre at 3am on Sunday.The father of two young children, who previously lived in Widford, had been queuing for a taxi with relatives at the time of the attack.His brother Tony McGarahan said: 'He was a very fair minded man. He had seen something right in front of him and he tried to help a young lad and his girlfriend who were being viciously attacked.'It's terrible when a man cannot go out and have a quiet family meal on what should have been a very joyous occasion but ends up paying with his life trying to help someone out.'He paid the ultimate price for trying to be a good citizen.'At the core of Frank's beliefs was fairness and all of his life all he has tried to do is help people. There is no way he would stand by and see a young couple viciously attacked. He didn't and he paid the ultimate price.'We are all devastated by our loss. Everyone who knew Frank remembers him as a caring, kind, considerate, generous and funny man.'He was a fantastic father to his two young beautiful daughters, a loving husband to his wife, a big-hearted son to his mum and dad and a brilliant brother and uncle. He was simply a great family man.'A former neighbour of the family in Widford said: 'Frank and his wife were fantastic people. We knew them quite well - fed their cats and took their post in while they were on holiday, that kind of thing.'We are in shock - I cannot understand it. If it can happen to someone like Frank it can happen to anyone. We are just so sorry.'A Barclays spokeswoman said: 'The shocking and tragic death of Frank McGarahan means that all our thoughts are with Frank's wife and family as they come to terms with the sad loss. Frank's passing is also felt deeply by all his colleagues and friends at Barclays.'He was universally respected and it is hard to overstate Frank's contribution to the transformation of Barclays Wealth into the strong, global and leading wealth manager we see today.'Norfolk police said Mr McGarahan had been on a 'quiet night' out with relatives ahead of a family christening in the city later on Sunday.Officers are trying to locate a gang seen running from the area immediately after the attack.At a press conference today, Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley would not reveal if any suspects had been arrested.The police chief confirmed officers have CCTV footage of the assault and believe the gang involved four men aged 18 to early 20s.Det Supt Hobley said: 'The details of what happened are coming together. We cannot go into detail of how he was assaulted at the moment.'We are looking very closely at CCTV footage which has been very productive and positive.'Mr McGarahan was chief operating Officer for Barclays Wealth in London and a member of the management committee, the company said.He joined Barclays Capital in 1998, having previously worked at Deutsche Bank. He graduated from Southampton University in 1985 with a law degree.Barclays Wealth caters for the bank's richest customers, managing combined assets of 133 billion.
