The family of a banking executive who was beaten to death after confronting a gang of men he had seen attacking a young couple said that he had paid the ultimate price for being a good citizen. Frank McGarahan, 45, the chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, who was in charge of assets worth 133 billion in 20 countries, had approached the men who had assaulted a homeless Lithuanian man and his girlfriend. Police said that there was an exchange of words before the men launched an attack on Mr McGarahan. They knocked him to the ground and then continued to kick and punch him. He was taken to hospital after paramedics tried to revive him but he died on Monday after the assault in the early hours of Sunday morning. Three men were arrested by officers who are investigating the killing. Mr McGarahan, who was the father of two young girls, had been at a family dinner in Norwich on Saturday evening, before his nieces christening on Sunday, and had been for a drink with his brother Kevin and a cousin. As they queued for a taxi at 3am, they saw the Lithuanian man and his girlfriend being attacked. It is believed that the trouble began with a comment about the mans dog. Other members of the public moved in to stop the fight and CCTV pictures show Mr McGarahan and his brother and cousin walking over to the gang. Mr McGarahan was knocked to the ground and attacked by about 12 men. His cousin was also knocked out as he tried to intervene and his brother was attacked before the gang ran off. The attack, at a taxi rank in Norwich city centre, lasted about four minutes. Darryl Lawton, head doorman at the nearby Spearmint Rhino Club, went to help. He suffered a fractured cheekbone. I restrained one of the attackers and held on to him for as long as I could, he said. Unfortunately I had to let go as I was getting kicked and punched myself. The homeless man and his girlfriend suffered minor injuries. Mr McGarahan lived in Much Hadham, near Ware, Herfordshire. At the house yesterday his other brother, Tony, described him as a fair-minded man who could not stand by as someone was being attacked. He tried to break it up and paid with his life, he said. He paid the ultimate price for trying to be a good citizen. He went on: Everyone who knew Frank remembers him as a caring, kind, considerate, generous and funny man. He was a fantastic father to his two young beautiful daughters, a loving husband to his wife, a big-hearted son to his mum and dad and a brilliant brother and uncle. He was simply a great family man. We will never understand how or why anyone could murder such a decent, caring and loving man. We will never comprehend it or truly recover from it. Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley, of Norfolk Police, who is leading the investigation, said that he was following up a number of very positive and encouraging lines of inquiry. He added: The area was busy at the time of the incident and we are still very keen to hear from anyone who may have seen something or has any information. Barclays paid tribute to the victim yesterday. A spokeswoman said: The shocking and tragic death of Frank McGarahan means that all our thoughts are with Franks wife and family. Franks passing is also felt deeply by all his colleagues and friends at Barclays. 
