Brave: Frank McGarahan, 45, suffered head injuries after trying to break up a street fight in Norwich city centreThree men have been arrested over the murder of a millionaire banker who tried to save a homeless Lithuanian man being assaulted by a mob.Frank McGarahan, 45, suffered head injuries after intervening to help the man.Today his family said he had paid the ultimate price for being a good citizen.His brother Tony said: 'This tragedy, a vicious wicked murder, ruins the life and lives of so many people who must eventually pick up the pieces and carry on. 'And we will try to do that but without Frank in our family and in our lives.'Frank McGarahan, 45, was out with relatives the night before his niece's christening when he saw the man with his girlfriend being attacked near a taxi rank.But as Mr McGarahan shouted at the gang of ten men to stop, they turned on him. In the fracas, he suffered a serious head injury.The father-of-two was the chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, the bespoke finance arm which caters for the bank's richest customers, and managed their combined assets of 133billion.On Saturday evening the family went out for dinner in Norwich city centre. His wife Alison and their two children, aged seven and four months, returned to their hotel but Mr McGarahan stayed out for another drink with two male relatives.They were waiting for a taxi home when the attack happened.A family member said: 'Frank was in a taxi queue with one of his younger brothers and another relative.Frank McGarahan's brother Tony lays a floral tribute outside his brother's family home in Hertfordshire'They were at the back of a queue waiting quietly to go back to their hotel when they saw an assault taking place on a young man and his girlfriend by a mob of nine or ten blokes in their early twenties.'Some other people in the queue were telling these guys to stop and Frank and one of his relatives did the same.'Out of the blue, both got attacked. Frank suffered serious head injuries.'Frank was a fair-minded person. He wouldn't see anyone treated unfairly. He just believed in a quiet life. He was just being a good citizen.'He believed in everyone getting on with their day-to-day business. He believed in fairness and decency.' More...      A group of men were seen running from the area after the attack. Detectives are scouring CCTV pictures of the city centre to try to identify the gang.Mr McGarahan's injuries were so severe that he was transferred to the specialist head injuries unit at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge.He died yesterday - and police started a murder inquiry. A postmortem examination is due to take place today.Forensics officers investigate the murder scene in NorwichMr McGarahan, from the village of Much Hadham, near Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire, married in 1999.He graduated in law from Southampton University in 1985, and worked at Deutsche Bank before moving to Barclays Capital as head of compliance.He later became managing director of the international investment branch of the high street bank and in 2000 he was made its global head of legal compliance.He was later made chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, the UK's largest wealth manager, which is in charge of assets in 21 countries. He was responsible for 7,700 staff.A Barclays spokesman said: 'As it is a matter for police investigation, I am sure you will appreciate that we cannot say very much.'We can confirm that he was the deceased and our thoughts are with his wife and family. They have asked for privacy at this time.'A family spokesman paid tribute to a 'fantastic family man'.'The family is deeply distressed and needs time to grieve. We would call on any witnesses to come forward and fully co-operate with the police.'Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley, of Norfolk Police, said: 'Norwich city centre is generally a safe place and there were a number of people in the vicinity of the incident.'We are very keen to hear from anyone who may have seen something or has any information.'Family members today paid tribute to Mr McGarahan outside his home in Much Hadham, HertfordshireThe city centre taxi rank where Mr McGarahan was attacked was just 200 yards from Norwich's main police station at Bethel Street.Last night it was reported that a bouncer from the Spearmint Rhino club - around 100 yards away in Dove Street - attempted to come to Mr McGarahan's aid and helped scare off his attackers.The club where men pay 15 for a personal performance by topless table dancers was closed last night.The taxi rank beside Norwich market is overlooked by several CCTV cameras which may have filmed the attack.A taxi driver said: 'It is a shocking thing to happen - but there are always a few idiots out on the streets of Norwich. It is as bad as anywhere else.'The rank is used by black cab drivers who mainly work independently. 'There are always people waiting to be picked up there in the early hours at the weekend.'Taxis never have to queue up so it is unlikely that any drivers would have seen what happened.'They just stop to pick up fares if they are driving past.'In 2004 a leading city banker was stabbed to death and his wife badly hurt during a burglary at their home.Legal and General bond dealer John Monckton, 49, and his wife Homeyra were attacked by two men in Chelsea, West London.The attackers forced their way into the mansion pretending to be postal delivery men.The couple's nine-year-old daughter, who was in the house, called police and later described the attack in harrowing detail in evidence to the court.Damien Hanson was later convicted of the killing of Mr Monckton and the attempted murder of his wife, in December 2005.Last year, a 47-year-old father was punched and kicked to death outside his home when he went to investigate youths vandalising his car.Garry Newlove, 47, died two days after confronting the gang in Warrington in August 2007.Here's what readers have had to say so far. Why not add your thoughts below?And the police take away a walking stick from a 76 years old pensioner. Always available for difficult jobs!- neha, LONDON, 30/9/2008 11:17Perhaps there could be a new law that classifies actions to assist a person in distress differently. In such cases, the penalties for the attackers would be higher, as if they had attacked a policemen. If this type of thing continues no-one will want to go out at night. or offer assistance to people attacked.- David Lee, stroud, 30/9/2008 11:1710 against 2??? These gutless dogs should be named and shamed and locked up.- A.N, London, 30/9/2008 11:15**yourComments**
