Frank McGarahan paid 'the ultimate price', his brother saidA floral tribute from cab drivers in Norwich has been laid at a taxi rank where a banker was fatally injured when he tried to stop an attack on a couple.Frank McGarahan, 45, of Hertfordshire, an executive at Barclays Wealth, died after the attack on Sunday. The tribute from the drivers reads: 'We taxi drivers salute you for your courage and bravery.' Norfolk Police are continuing to question three local men, aged in their early 20s, in connection with the case. Mr McGarahan's brother Tony said he had paid the 'ultimate price' for being a good citizen. Mr McGarahan was waiting for a taxi with his brother and a cousin at the time of the attack. His brother said the death was a 'mindless murder' and his family would 'never truly recover' from the loss. Tony said his brother 'did what was natural to him to try and help someone because they needed help'. 'He would not and could not stand by and watch a defenceless young lad and his girlfriend...being mindlessly attacked by a large group of grown men,' Mr McGarahan said. 'We will always be proud of Frank and we will never ever forget him. 'We will never understand how or why anyone could murder such a decent, caring and loving man.' Mr McGarahan said his family was caring for his late brother's wife and children who live in Hertfordshire. CCTV reviewedPolice said Mr McGarahan had been spending an evening out with friends and family when he saw a 35-year-old homeless Lithuanian man being attacked while he walked his dog with his girlfriend, 45, from Norfolk. A bouncer from a nearby strip club, Darryl Lawton, had his jaw fractured when he tried to break up the fight, police said. Det Supt Chris Hobley said: '[Mr McGarahan] witnessed an assault while queuing for a taxi on Guildhall Hill, after which he sustained a fatal injury. 'Officers are reviewing CCTV footage from around the city centre area and following up a number of lines of inquiry.' Barclays Wealth employs 7,700 staff in 20 countries and manages assets worth 133bn. 
