Detectives hunting the killers of a senior banking executive are today hunting for at least five men who are believed to have been caught on CCTV running from the scene of the street attack early on Sunday morning. Frank McGarahan, 45, the chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, in charge of assets worth 133 billion in 21 countries, was out with his brother and another male ahead of a family christening later that day in Norwich. As they queued for a taxi at the Guildhall Hill rank at 3am Mr McGarahan spotted a man being attacked by a group of youths and is believed to have shouted at the gang to stop. Police say he did not physically intervene. They then turned on him, inflicting serious head injuries. His brother was also injured as he tried to help as was a nearby doorman who suffered a fractured jaw. Mr McGarahan, the father of two young children, was taken to Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital before being transferred to Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge where he died. Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley, of Norfolk police, who is leading the investigation, said that he was following up a number of very positive and encouraging lines of inquiry. He added: The area was busy at the time of the incident and we are still very keen to hear from anyone who may have seen something or has any information. Tributes were paid today to Mr McGarahan, who lived in a quiet village in Hertfordshire. A Barclays spokeswoman said: The shocking and tragic death of Frank McGarahan means that all our thoughts are with Franks wife and family as they come to terms with the sad loss. Franks passing is also felt deeply by all his colleagues and friends at Barclays. He was universally respected and it is hard to overstate Franks contribution to the transformation of Barclays Wealth into the strong, global and leading wealth manager we see today. Police said Mr McGarahan had been on a quiet night out with relatives ahead of a family christening in the city later on Sunday. Officers are trying to locate a gang seen running from the area immediately after the attack. Mr McGarahan joined Barclays Capital in 1998, having previously worked at Deutsche Bank. He graduated from Southampton University in 1985 with a law degree. Barclays Wealth caters for the banks richest customers. 
