Chelsea could be down to the bare bones for Sunday's Barclays Premier League clash with Aston Villa after Didier Drogba joined a lengthening injury list.Drogba suffered suspected knee ligament damage in Chelsea's 0-0 Champions League draw with CFR Cluj on Wednesday night, leaving the field on a stretcher and the stadium on crutches with his right leg in a brace.Manager Luiz Felipe Scolari was already without Deco, Joe Cole, Michael Essien and Ricardo Carvalho. Ashley Cole sat out Wednesday night's game with a sore back while John Terry (back) and Alex (buttock) both finished it in pain.Scolari should get a clearer picture of where he stands over the next 24 hours but Chelsea do not boast an extensive squad and the potential loss of eight key players could be a major problem.An extended lay-off for Drogba, who was making only his third start after undergoing a knee operation in the summer, would leave Nicolas Anelka as Chelsea's only fit out-and-out striker.With Carvalho sidelined for the next fortnight, Scolari will be anxious both Terry, who was holding his back in the closing stages, and Alex recover for the weekend or Chelsea will be out of senior centre-backs.Scolari is at least optimistic that Ashley Cole will return to face Villa, though the long-term prognosis for Drogba did not look promising.The Ivorian appeared to jar his right knee as he stretched to reach a cross from Florent Malouda and immediately crumpled to the floor.The only up-side of a difficult evening in Transylvania was that Chelsea left with a point and not a defeat that could so easily have befallen them.'The result is OK given we didn't play well,' said Scolari. 'It was difficult for us. The players and I know that a point is OK. They beat Roma, they are confident, they're playing at home, they wanted to show to the people they are very good.'Editor's ChoiceNEW poems from some of Stroud's finest wordsmiths will accompany this year's Stroud Water Textile Festival.DJ JAGDISH Patel is one of Stroud FM's new radio presenters.WHY is it that three quintessentially English roles have gone to a couple of Americans and one Australian? Having just won two substantial Oscars this year it must be plain for any idiot to see that Britain has talent. So when this film's director Justin Chadwick says they were just perfect for the roles because 'they're great actors', it sticks in my craw. Though it is fair to say the Australian Cate Blanchett did a fine job as Queen Elizabeth I, I still think that it is insulting to Americans to assume they would be unable to cope with an unknown name in the lead, but it is an even greater insult to us. We have a treasure trove of talent in this country that is struggling to get noticed in a profession in which 88% are out of work. But we also have a myriad of big names as well, so shame on you Mr. Chadwick.SET in the early 1980s this film is based on the true story of hard drinking womaniser Charlie Wilson, who also had a penchant for coke. He was the liberal Democrat congressman from Texas said to have been totally responsible for organising the biggest undercover operation in the history of the United States. This involved supplying the Afghan Mujahideen with arms during the Soviet war in Afghanistan, the success of which unfortunately was the beginning of a very tricky future for the Afghan nation.
