 By Web Reporter THREE men are being questioned in connection with the murder of a banker set upon after confronting a gang attacking a homeless man. Father-of-two Frank McGarahan, 45, of Much Hadham died from bleeding to the brain in hospital on Monday after being injured in central Norwich in the early hours of Sunday. Police said on Tuesday night that three men - all in their early 20s and from the Norwich area - had been arrested. They are being held at police stations across Norfolk. Mr McGarahan was chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, a section of Barclays Bank which manages the assets of some of the world's richest people, and had been enjoying a night out in Norwich before a family christening. Police said he intervened when he saw thugs attacking a homeless Lithuanian man and his girlfriend. He was hurt after an 'exchange of words' with the couple's attackers, said Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley. Mr Hobley said Mr McGarahan, who had been for a meal and visited several bars, was at a taxi rank with his brother Kevin, who lives in Norwich, and a cousin when the incident happened. A doorman working at a nearby strip club went to the group's aid when he heard sounds of a disturbance. Darryl Lawton told the Mail newspaper that a gang of 12 thugs were, 'really laying into' the 45-year-old. He said: 'If I had been there just a few seconds earlier I could have saved Frank. 'They kicked me and punched me in the head and back. I took as much as I could, but I had to let go of the guy I was holding. When I turned around I could see that Frank was dead,' he told the newspaper. Police said Mr McGarahan was hurt at around 3am on Sunday and died in hospital yesterday without regaining consciousness. Mr Lawton suffered a broken jaw and Mr McGarahan's cousin also needed hospital treatment. His brother Tony McGarahan said: 'He was a very fair minded man. He had seen something right in front of him and he tried to help a young lad and his girlfriend who were being viciously attacked. 'It's terrible when a man cannot go out and have a quiet family meal on what should have been a very joyous occasion but ends up paying with his life trying to help someone out. 'He paid the ultimate price for trying to be a good citizen. 'At the core of Frank's beliefs was fairness and all of his life all he has tried to do is help people. There is no way he would stand by and see a young couple viciously attacked. He didn't and he paid the ultimate price. 'We are all devastated by our loss. Everyone who knew Frank remembers him as a caring, kind, considerate, generous and funny man. 'He was a fantastic father to his two young beautiful daughters, a loving husband to his wife, a big-hearted son to his mum and dad and a brilliant brother and uncle. He was simply a great family man.' A former neighbour of the family in Widford said: 'Frank and his wife were fantastic people. We knew them quite well - fed their cats and took their post in while they were on holiday, that kind of thing. 'We are in shock - I cannot understand it. If it can happen to someone like Frank it can happen to anyone. We are just so sorry.' A Barclays spokeswoman said: 'The shocking and tragic death of Frank McGarahan means that all our thoughts are with Frank's wife and family as they come to terms with the sad loss. Frank's passing is also felt deeply by all his colleagues and friends at Barclays. 'He was universally respected and it is hard to overstate Frank's contribution to the transformation of Barclays Wealth into the strong, global and leading wealth manager we see today.'
