Good oil on a prime announcement   Full Disclosure / Mark Hawthorne   March 3, 2009     THE Opes Prime tale of intrigue, and the company's ties with the underworld, has taken another twist with news that Mick Gatto is in London representing a group of concerned investors who want their money back.     Gatto's jaunt to Singapore last year turned into a media circus, but this trip has been done on the quiet. Indeed, Gatto and his partner in Arbitrations and Mediations, John Khoury, made it as far as Sydney Airport when Full Disclosure called them on Saturday. "I don't know where your mail is from, but it's good," Gatto said when asked if he was flying to London on behalf of Opes creditors.     "The trip is in relation to Opes, and we're just trying to get a 40 to 50 per cent settlement, and it should be happening in the next week. There will be a big announcement, and then we've done our job, sort of thing."     That "big announcement" relates to a settlement between ANZ Bank and Merrill Lynch with the Opes creditors threatening to sue over their seized share portfolios - a settlement rumoured to be between 40 and 50 cents in the dollar.     Khoury has been in contact with Opes Prime administrator Ferrier Hodgson and, on learning that a deal with the banks had been negotiated, the pair booked flights to London.     That the trip coincides with a rumoured London meeting between two other Australian business figures - Mihran "Mick" Shemessian and long-time associate Leo "The Gun" Khouri - is, according to Gatto, just coincidence.     The entry of Gatto into the Opes Prime tale has baffled and captivated onlookers, but it says much about the margin lender's client list.     When Gatto and Khoury travelled to Singapore to "extract a return" on behalf of their clients, Full Disclosure asked Gatto's barrister, Nicola Gobbo, if his clients included well-known Melbourne businessmen. "Some would be described as business people - if you very loosely used the term 'business people'," she said.     Gatto has been guarded about whom he is representing, but the source who tipped us off about his London trip says some of Gatto's clients were advised by Khouri to use Opes Prime accounts to margin lend against their stock portfolios.     Khouri's exposure to Opes Prime, including the accounts of his associates, is estimated at $50 million - which means a rather large cheque could soon be coming his way.     John Khoury denies that the trip to London is scheduled to coincide with a rumoured meeting between Leo Khouri and Shemessian.     "The team is going to London, but it's got nothing to do with him (Leo)," he said "It's just a pretty discreet meeting  with some of the parties involved in Singapore."     Shemessian has been dubbed "Mick Manynames" as his mining interests are held under at least nine different spellings and versions of his name.     Gatto's trip to London has made several people in Perth "nervous", according to The Age's source.     Shemessian is embroiled in court proceedings with former business partner Brett Matich. The pair are fighting for control of a stake in Cape Lambert Iron Ore, the mining explorer controlled by Perth Glory owner Tony Sage. Shemessian's Hong Kong-based company Power United - owned in the name Shmazian - owns 10.5 per cent of Cape Lambert and last year launched a bid alongside Russia's Evraz to take control of the company, which controlled $320 million in cash.     That bid was stymied by Matich, who obtained an injunction from the Supreme Court of WA to prevent Shemessian from selling or voting his Cape Lambert stock.     Matich and Shemessian are scheduled to square off in court later in the year. "The thought of Gatto and Shemessian meeting in London has made Brett rather nervous," quipped one mining figure.   Musical chairs     THE vacancy in the big chair at Telstra caused by Sol Trujillo's departure has caused jostling in the corporate world. Little wonder - Sol's remuneration of $33 million in cash and more than $5.5 million of shares for four years' work will have many desperate to be the next ex-boss of the telco.     Telstra chairman Donald McGauchie has hired corporate headhunter Egon Zehnder to scour the world for a replacement, but it seems likely that the powerbase at Telstra is going to shift from Sydney to Melbourne - the two most likely internal candidates live in Melbourne.     Telstra chief financial officer John Stanhope resides in Melbourne, while consumer marketing and channels chief David Moffatt can be seen pedalling his bicycle around Brighton. McGauchie is also a Victorian resident.     While internal candidates jostle for Sol's chair, one name that keeps popping up in dispatches is former eircom chief executive Rex Comb - another man who is well known in Melbourne.     Comb is the former chief executive of Babcock and Brown Capital, was managing director of Linfox and was the head of Mattel Asia Pacific.     According to a well-placed source, Comb headed overseas to run eircom for three years to get some telco experience.     Comb resigned soon after his Christmas holiday in Australia, and will head home to Melbourne with his family in April. Indeed, he actually cleared out his desk at eircom on the day Sol announced he was departing Telstra.   That figures     YOU have to feel for Solagran company secretary Peter Stedwell. Last month one of his errant emails ended up in Full Disclosure's inbox, and Stedwell joked that the board wanted him to get some typing lessons after the error.     Stedwell must wish he heeded his own advice. Solagran hastily issued an amended Appendix 4D to the Australian Securities Exchange after an error in its half-year results.     Just the small matter of adding an extra three zeroes to a number of figures. For the record, Solagran didn't have revenue of $303.8 million in the last half year, nor did it lose $2.53 billion. The correct numbers are $303,886, and a net loss of $2.53 million.
