MTIZ News below. Metiscan's Subsidiary Adds Former Greyhound Lines Executive to Its Board of Directors Date : 03/05/2009 @ 9:00AM Source : MarketWire Stock : Metiscan, Inc. (MTIZ) Quote : 0.02 0.0 (0.00%) @ 8:12AM Metiscan's Subsidiary Adds Former Greyhound Lines Executive to Its Board of Directors DALLAS, TX -- (Marketwire) -- 03/05/09 -- Metiscan, Inc. (PINKSHEETS: MTIZ), a leading provider of products and services that streamline the management of diagnostic imaging facilities, today announced the addition of Mary Glover to the Board of Directors of its wholly owned subsidiary Metiscan Managed Services, Inc. Glover will be responsible for providing technology oversight and strategic direction. "Mary brings us experience and leadership coupled with a passion for technology," commented Iain Shigeoka, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer of Metiscan Managed Services, Inc. "Her executive experience in information technology coupled with her business acumen makes her an excellent fit for our organization. Her strengths complement those of our existing team." Glover, a seasoned senior executive, brings a distinguished background of achievements in the implementation of information-rich business strategies and solutions and information technology support services. Her most notable accomplishments were defined during her tenure at a billion dollar intercity bus, Greyhound Lines, headquartered in Dallas, Texas. "Metiscan has extraordinary momentum and is positioned to be a leader in providing electronic health record software as a service for diagnostic imaging facilities," said Glover. "I am excited to be a member of their leadership team and I believe I am a good fit for their organization. I look forward to our collective future achievements." Glover has over 20 years' experience in strategizing and implementing information technology solutions in a variety of roles. She began her career as a software engineer with roots originating at Bank of America and Cap Gemini. At the end of 2009 she joined The Delta Companies (http://www.tdcpeople.com/) as their IT Director where she manages the technological strategic and tactical aspects for all six business units of their organization and all the companies that are under The Delta Companies. Her 18-year tenure at Greyhound Lines began as a programmer analyst, and rapidly brought her through the ranks to serve as Director of Systems Delivery, General Manager of Information Technology Services, and Vice President then Senior Vice President of Information Technology Services.
