FINANCE  By Christine Harper  Morgan Stanley is in talks with Citigroup Inc. to form a joint venture that would combine the brokerage units of both banks and give Morgan Stanley a 51 percent stake, according to a person familiar with the matter.   An agreement may be announced as soon as Sunday, said the person, who declined to be identified because the deal hasn't been completed.   Morgan Stanley would pay cash for control of the venture and would have an option to increase its ownership to as much as 100 percent in coming years, the person said.   With more than 20,000 financial advisers, the combined brokerage, which would be managed by Morgan Stanley Co-president James Gorman, would be the world's largest, ahead of the new combination of Bank of America Corp. and Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co.   The deal would provide Citigroup with cash in exchange for its Smith Barney brokerage and give Morgan Stanley a bigger presence in the business of providing financial services to people, an area in which the firm has been trying to expand.   The sale of Smith Barney 'is a first step in Citigroup's dismantling,' said William Smith, CEO and founder of Smith Asset Management Inc., a Citigroup shareholder. 'This is positive news.' The news came as Citigroup announced that former U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin plans to quit its board. Spokeswomen at Citigroup and Morgan Stanley, both based in New York, declined to comment.   Morgan Stanley, which was the second-biggest U.S. securities firm before its conversion to a bank holding company in September, would make the payment from its existing resources, the person said.   Citigroup, which is expected to announce a fifth consecutive quarterly loss when it reports fourth-quarter results this month, has received $25 billion from the U.S. Treasury Department as part of the government's rescue plan and $306 billion of guarantees for troubled mortgages and toxic assets. The bank's stock price fell 77 percent last year.   Citigroup chief executive Vikram Pandit told employees on a conference call in November that he didn't want to sell Smith Barney.   Instead, he and Chief Financial Officer Gary Crittenden said they wanted to sell businesses that weren't crucial to the bank's main operations. In July, the bank agreed to sell its German retail bank, Citibank Privatkunden AG &amp;amp; Co., for $6.6 billion, and last month, it sold a processing business in India with about 12,000 employees for $512 million. In a memo this week, Crittenden said that the bank had sold 21 businesses over the past year and that divestitures would 'again be critical in 2009.' Smith Barney has 13,500 financial advisers in about 600 offices in the United States, said Alex Samuelson, a spokesman for Citigroup. Global wealth management business had about 9 million U.S. client accounts as of Nov. 3, oversaw $1.32 trillion of client assets and generated $7.94 billion in revenue during the first nine months of 2008.   Morgan Stanley gained its retail brokerage in the company's 1997 combination with Dean Witter, Discover &amp;amp; Co. The business had 8,426 financial advisers at the end of November and $546 billion in total client assets and generated $6.3 billion in revenue during 2008 when the gain from an asset sale was excluded, according to a company report last month. 
