(Adds comments from CCB and BofA, analysts.)  By   Amy Or  Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES   HONG KONG -(Dow Jones)-  (BAC) confirmed Wednesday it raised US$2.8 billion by cutting its stake in China Construction Bank Corp. ( 0939.HK) to 16.6% from 19.1%.  People familiar with the situation said earlier Wednesday that Bank of America sold shares in Construction Bank, China's second-largest lender by assets after Industrial &amp;amp; Commercial Bank of China Ltd., at HK$3.92 each, or a 12% discount to Tuesday's closing price of HK$4.45.  Wednesday's sale follows Bank of America's failed attempt in December to reduce its holdings in Construction Bank, and comes as the U.S. lender grapples with its broad exposure to the battered U.S. housing market, rising credit-card delinquencies and other consumer problems.  Construction Bank said the sale was a 'normal market activity' due to the U.S. bank's own financial situation, and added it wouldn't affect their strategic partnership.  Bank of America spokesman   Robert Stickler said the bank was 'simply taking a little money off of the table.' The deal makes Bank of America the second foreign strategic investor in a Chinese bank to sell shares. People familiar with the matter said earlier UBS AG (UBS) unloaded its entire 1.33% stake in Bank of China Ltd. (3988.HK) on Dec. 31 for US$808 million. UBS will book a US$300 million gain from the sale in its fourth-quarter results.  Bank of America sold 5.6 billion Construction Bank shares at a fixed price of HK$3.92 each in an accelerated bookbuilding, which was completed in just three hours early Wednesday morning, the people familiar with the situation said. Investors allotted shares are subject to a lockup period of 120 days, they added.  The pricing is equivalent to 1.5 times Construction Bank's forecast price-to- book ratio for 2009. 'We believe these valuations are fair but not super attractive, considering that earnings risks for the Chinese banks remain on the downside and the remaining overhang from Bank of America's stake,' Citigroup Inc. said in a research note.  China Construction Bank shares were down 5.8% at HK$4.19 midday Wednesday. The benchmark Hang Seng Index was down 0.5% at 15,427 points.  Bank of America first attempted to sell its Construction Bank shares in mid- December, but people familiar with the situation said the deal that could have raised US$3.1 billion was pulled at the last minute. The South China Morning Post reported it was canceled after an objection from Beijing, which thought it wasn't the right time for a sale.  In November, Bank of America raised its stake in Construction Bank to 19.13% from 10.8% by acquiring 19.58 billion additional Hong Kong dollar-denominated H shares for US$7 billion from Central Huijin Investment Co., an investment vehicle of China's sovereign wealth fund.  The H shares are subject to a lockup until August 2011, but analysts said the stake increase paved the way for Bank of America to sell the other shares it holds in the Chinese lender.  Bank of America bought an 8.2% stake in Construction Bank's Hong Kong initial public offering in 2005 for a total of US$3 billion, and had gradually been increasing its stake. The IPO shares became tradable in October after the expiry of the lockup period.  The U.S. lender, which is preparing to integrate newly acquired Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., said it is cutting up to 35,000 jobs over the next three years. The cuts reflect both redundancies created by the Merrill acquisition and the 'current recessionary environment,' it said in December.  It recently cut its dividend after third-quarter net profit fell 68%.  Merrill Lynch and UBS handled Wednesday's placement, the people said.   -By   Amy Or  , Dow Jones Newswires; 852-2832 2335; amy.or@dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 01-07-090006ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
