(Adds background, updates stock quotes)  DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  Citigroup Inc. (C) and Morgan Stanley (MS) confirmed late Tuesday they will combine Citi's Smith Barney retail brokerage and Morgan Stanley's wealth- management operations in a joint venture.  Morgan Stanley will pay Citi $2.7 billion for Smith Barney, Smith Barney Australia and Quilter in the U.K. and take a 51% stake in the combined brokerage, the companies said after stock markets closed Tuesday.  The joint venture is the first step in a major reorganization of Citi in which the financial conglomerate will narrow its mission to focus on wholesale banking for large corporate clients and retail banking for customers in select markets. Details of the broader overhaul are expected to be announced when Citigroup reports fourth-quarter results later this month.  Tuesday's deal brings much needed cash to Citi, which has racked up more than $45 billion in write-downs and other losses stemming from the mortgage meltdown since the credit crunch began. The federal government also has pumped at least $ 45 billion into the company since September, and various agencies are helping Citi to backstop $306 billion in investments.  When the deal with Morgan Stanley closes, expected in the third quarter, Citi will recognize a $5.8 billion gain and will create about $6.5 billion of tangible common equity.  The combination of Smith Barney's roughly 11,000 brokers and Morgan's 8,000 would create the largest broker in the world. To be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, the joint venture won't include Citi Private Bank or Nikko Cordial Securities.  Morgan Stanley Co-President   James Gorman  will serve as chairman of the new company while continuing in his role at Morgan Stanley.   Charles Johnston  , most recently president of Citi's Global Wealth Management business in the U.S. and Canada, will serve as president. 'For Citi, the joint venture provides significant synergies and scale, substantially reduces our expenses and enables us to retain a significant stake in a company that immediately becomes the industry leader with real growth opportunities,' said Chief Executive Vikram Pandit.  The joint venture is expected to save about $1.1 billion, in part by consolidating such functions as technology, operations, sales support, product development and marketing.  After the third year of the joint venture, Morgan Stanley and Citi will have various purchase and sale rights, but Citi will continue to own a significant stake in the joint venture at least through the fifth year.  The joint venture marks a strategic shift for both companies - moving Citigroup toward a smaller, more focused business model, while Morgan Stanley will grow beyond its institutional roots to become a major player in the retail investment market. A few months ago, Morgan Stanley was the fourth-largest brokerage.  The recently married Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. and  (BAC) currently has the title of world's largest brokerage, with about 18,500 brokers.  The industry has seen a wave of acquisitions during the past few months. In addition to Bank of America and Merrill Lynch joining forces,  (WFC), which bought Wachovia Corp in October, has a broker force of about 15, 800.  Citi's planned moves essentially undo large pieces of the financial supermarket created when Citicorp and Travelers Group merged in 1998 to form Citigroup. The shakeup is intended to slice about a third of the assets from Citigroup's balance sheet, now roughly $2 trillion in size, a person familiar with the company's plans told The Wall Street Journal.  As part of the new plan, Citigroup executives are considering the possibility of creating what is known as a 'good bank-bad bank' structure, said people familiar with the plan. Under that structure, Citigroup would create a new corporate entity to house what it regards as its core businesses. The 'bad bank' would hold about $700 billion in assets, with the remaining $ 1.1 trillion considered core. The entity would face accounting-related complications, and Citigroup hasn't settled on the approach, people familiar with the discussions said.  Citigroup's shares fell 0.9% to $5.85 in after-hours trading, and Morgan Stanley's fell 1.4% to $18.60.  -By   Kerry E. Grace  and Kathy Shwiff, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5975; Kathy.Shwiff@dowjones.com  (David Enrich contributed to this report.)   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 01-13-091848ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
