One deal too many. That could be the epitaph of many CEOs -- Jerry Levin of Time Warner (TWX) and Ken Thompson of Wachovia (WFC) come to mind -- who built their companies through ever-bigger mergers and then watched those crowning acquisitions become their downfall. Now the question is: Will Merrill Lynch come to represent Bank of America (BAC) CEO Ken Lewis' Waterloo as well?   That question suddenly isn't out of the realm of possibilities following news that the Treasury Dept. is close to committing billions more in financial assistance to Bank of America, which was said to be stunned by Merrill's unexpectedly large losses in the fourth quarter. According to reports, Bank of America -- which has already received $25 billion in taxpayer funds -- privately warned Treasury in mid-December that it might walk away from the Merrill deal before shareholders voted, amid concerns that Merrill was becoming a financial black hole. Now comes news that Treasury is preparing BofA with another $10 billion in capital, fearing that if the deal unraveled it could trigger another panic on Wall Street. The move did create panic among Bank of America's long-suffering shareholders, who bid its stock down another 18.4% in trading on Jan. 15.   For the 61-year-old Lewis, the Merrill Lynch deal wasn't one he had to have. Thanks to Lewis' past deals for MBNA, U.S. Trust, and Countrywide Financial, Charlotte [N.C.]-based BofA had built an impressive banking franchise with leading positions in checking accounts, credit cards, and mortgages. But there was a certain poetic justice in acquiring Merrill Lynch, given that New York banks had long derisively viewed their North Carolina rival as the financial equivalent of a dinner theater troupe that didn't have the talent to play Broadway.   Dividend in Jeopardy  While Lewis couldn't resist the opportunity to acquire Merrill Lynch's massive brokerage force -- the legendary Thundering Herd of Wall Street -- the question is whether Lewis will get to enjoy the fruits of the deal before he retires, or worst case, were to be eased out by the board. Already, some shareholders are grumbling that Lewis' deals for Countrywide and Merrill were poorly timed and may be cases of good money chasing bad.   After a 66% drop in its stock price last year, BofA's shares are now down another 42% in January and are now trading at a new 52-week low of 8.15. Bank of America's directors have already cut the company's once-lush dividend in half, and Citi Investment Research (C) analyst Keith Horowitz issued a report earlier this week predicting further cuts ahead. Horowitz, who now believes BofA could lose $3.6 billion in the fourth quarter, is only modestly sanguine about 2009. Horowitz lowered his estimates for 2009 earnings to just 25% a share -- making it unlikely that BofA could sustain the current quarterly payout of 32% a share at a time when it's already scratching for capital.   According to a report by Friedman Billings Ramsey (FBR) analyst Paul Miller, the bank's tangible common equity ratio is now around 3.2% -- a little more than a third the level that regulators will demand in the future. Even with the Treasury infusion, that could necessitate an additional issue of stock, which would dilute existing shareholders even more.   Dumping Foreign Investments  For a sign of how deep Lewis may think Merrill's problems run, even as he was negotiating with Treasury, the Mississippi native was already raising cash. Lewis recently raised $2.8 billion from selling his treasured stake in China Construction Bank. Analysts at Deutsche Bank (DB) are now predicting that Lewis could be looking to sell BofA's stake in Banco Itau Holding Financeira, Brazil's largest bank by assets, for as much as $2.5 billion. 'If BAC is selling its equity stake in CCB, could it sell its equity stake in Itau?' Deutsche Bank analyst Merio Pierry wrote in a note. 'We believe it could, although management has not formally commented about it.' Apart from the unexpected losses at Merrill, there were previous signs that friction was building between the BofA and Merrill camps. While executive departures aren't uncommon after mergers, Lewis was counting on Merrill CEO John Thain to retain his top lieutenants to oversee the combined company's investment banking and wealth management divisions, two areas where Bank of America has never performed well. But the troops at Merrill, a gregarious lot by nature, have never cottoned to Thain and his stiff management style. Moreover, the departures of Greg Fleming and Bob McCann -- Merrill's top investment banking and brokerage executives, respectively -- suggest Bank of America is losing the very managers it had counted on to keep Merrill's best brokers from jumping ship.   Already, a number of Merrill's best-producing brokers have left to hang out their own shingles, and rival Morgan Stanley (MS) has been quietly wooing away the remaining Merrill brokers. What's more, Morgan's deal to combine its brokerage force with that of Citigroup's could create even more of a threat to BofA and Merrill Lynch. When McCann left, credit analysts at Standard &amp; Poor's [like BusinessWeek, a unit of The McGraw-Hill Companies (MHP)] called his exit a 'cause for concern,' given that 'Merrill's brokerage unit was likely the main attraction for [BofA] in completing the acquisition, and if brokerage attrition picks up, the acquisition becomes less valuable.' At some point, Lewis' vision that the combined BofA-Merrill Lynch will be a financial juggernaut is almost certain to be realized. In a Jan. 13 report, Ladenburg Thalmann (LTS) banking analyst Richard Bove noted that if Lewis can stem the recent losses in its investment banking, lending, and trading operations, BofA 'has $5 per share in earnings power without any growth in its franchise.' While noting that investors 'are rightly focused on the near-term at some point they will look beyond the valley and what they are likely to see is a relatively high profit mountain,' Bove wrote. But for Lewis, reaching that pinnacle could be a Sisyphean task over the next several years. 
