(The Charlotte Observer - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- BAC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Amid the banking industry's troubles last year, Bank of America Corp. chief executive Ken Lewis won praise for buying up weakened rivals.  Now, as the economy and financial markets continue to founder, Lewis is running into troubles of his own.  The Charlotte bank's stock is down 24 percent this year after a 66 percent drop last year. The board has already halved the bank's lucrative dividend, and analysts are expecting a further reduction. The bank is set to disclose fourth-quarter earnings next week and could announce a rare loss.  Lewis also has his hands full with the Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. acquisitions he forged last year. As part of these deals, the bank is cutting up to 42,500 jobs to reduce costs, and the layoffs are starting to hit home in Charlotte. The bank told state and local officials this week that it's laying off 139 workers in Ballantyne.  In addition, the Merrill purchase is stoking concerns of a destructive culture clash after top Merrill executives departed last week.  'I think he's in the struggle of his life,' one former Bank of America executive said of Lewis.  To be sure, Bank of America has been one of the stronger institutions in a downturn that has claimed rivals ranging from Wachovia Corp. to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., and the bank's board hasn't publicly expressed any concerns about his leadership. But investor pressure is likely to increase, especially with another dividend cut, said Charles Elson, director of the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.  'If I were on the board I would be looking at the situation extremely carefully,' he said.  Citigroup analyst Keith Horowitz this week said Bank of America could report a fourth-quarter loss of $3.6 billion as it takes further loan losses and securities writedowns. He also expects the bank to cut its dividend to 5 cents from 32 cents per quarter. The bank's shares fell nearly 7 percent to $10.65 on Tuesday after falling 12 percent on Monday.  Bank of America spokesman Scott Silvestri declined to comment on Lewis' job status as well as analyst reports on the bank. Lewis, in the past, has expressed confidence in Bank of America's ability to smoothly integrate mergers and to meet cost-cutting goals.  Lewis, 61, joined the bank in 1969 and soon became a key lieutenant to chief executive Hugh McColl Jr., who led the bank's acquisition crusade in the 1980s and 1990s. After succeeding his mentor in 2001, Lewis worked to integrate McColl's landmark 1998 BankAmerica-NationsBank deal before embarking on his own acquisition spree.  Espousing the goal to be No. 1 in the markets in which the bank competed, he spent more than $100 billion on big banks in New England and Chicago, credit card giant MBNA Corp., mortgage leader Countrywide Financial and brokerage titan Merrill Lynch. The goal was to create a financial services 'supermarket' catering to all of a customer's needs.  Lewis won praise for his strategy, but now it's showing some cracks. The bank's credit card portfolio is producing rising losses, and the housing market is still cratering. Analysts are worried about the bank's ability to absorb Merrill's 'Thundering Herd' of stock brokers. And one of the bank's chief competitors, Citigroup, appears ready to give up on the goal of providing a wide array of banking and investment services to its customers. Citi said Tuesday it's merging its brokerage unit with Morgan Stanley's to form a stock broker force bigger than the combined Bank of America/Merrill unit.  In a report last month, Friedman Billings Ramsey analyst Paul Miller raised concerns about troubled mortgage-related assets the bank acquired from Countrywide and Merrill. He also noted the difficulties banks can face in big mergers.  'Revenue and cost-cutting targets are tough to realize, merger integration is a distraction to management and rank-and-file workers, and culture clashes often result in the loss of key employees and intellectual property,' he wrote.  Another worry is that recent acquisitions have lowered the bank's capital levels, the cushion it needs to absorb future losses. The bank's tangible common equity ratio -- a measure of its liquidation value to total assets, excluding goodwill -- is now around 3.2 percent, but it may need to rise to as high as 9 percent, Miller wrote. The ways to increase this ratio -- issuing new stock and cutting the dividend -- hurt existing shareholders.  The Merrill deal closed Jan. 1, and the integration is well underway. The bank has named the upper ranks of executives in the combined company and on Tuesday confirmed that the combined brokerage will use the Merrill Lynch name and bull symbol.  Lewis, however, has long expressed trepidation about the difficulty of merging a commercial bank with a Wall Street firm, as high-paid, risk-prone investment bankers bump into lower-paid, conservative bankers. Last week, two high-level Merrill executives -- Greg Fleming and Bob McCann -- changed their minds about staying on at the company. Former Merrill CEO John Thain remains in a top post overseeing investment banking and brokerage operations.  While Bank of America wants to keep Merrill's top-producing stock brokers, it's looking to cut other employees as it seeks to reduce annual expenses by $7 billion. The bank has said it plans to eliminate 35,000 jobs in the combined company over the next three years. Those cuts follow plans to lay off 7,500 in the Countrywide acquisition. At the end of the third quarter, Bank of America and Merrill had a total of more than 300,000 employees.  The bank began by chopping at the top in December, eliminating about 20 high-level executives, some only two rungs below Lewis. Some of the executives were escorted from their offices, treatment that was unusual in the upper ranks of the company.  The cuts are now extending deeper into middle management and into investment banking and capital markets positions in Charlotte and elsewhere.  The 139 Ballantyne workers are in a financial-advising unit called Preferred Services, which is aimed at middle-class investors. The bank said in a Monday letter to Mayor Pat McCrory, which it is required to file, that notifications began Friday and that layoffs for the unit will be completed by March 10. One employee told the Observer that some workers were asked to leave the office immediately.  'I thought we'd be in better shape down in Charlotte because we're cheaper labor, cheaper real estate,' the employee said. The bank also said it is laying off about 85 workers at a Preferred Services site in Dallas.  Workers have said the cuts are stretching far into the ranks of Bank of America executives and veterans, and have complained that the bank isn't keeping them informed when colleagues are laid off.  'Morale is horrible,' said one executive. 'It's like walking around with a 100-pound weight around your neck. We may be the last bank standing, but it sure is not a pleasure to work here anymore.'  Silvestri, the bank spokesman, said the Merrill deal is on track and that the bank will discuss the merger further when it announces fourth-quarter earnings, scheduled for next Tuesday.  Staff Writer Christina Rexrode contributed.  To see more of The Charlotte Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.charlotteobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Charlotte Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.  For full details on Bank Of America Corp (BAC) click here. Bank Of America Corp (BAC) has Short Term PowerRatings of 7. Details on Bank Of America Corp (BAC) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
