   The original financial supermarket is dead.  Citigroup signalled the end of a decade-long experiment to create one-stop shopping for financial services - everything from consumer loans to investment banking - with yesterday's announcement that it was merging its Smith Barney brokerage into a joint venture with Morgan Stanley.  The deal, which will give Citigroup US$2.7 billion ($4.9 billion) in badly needed cash as it gives up control of Smith Barney, comes as the company still struggles in the aftermath of the mortgage and credit crisis.  There is speculation that chief executive Vikram Pandit, who for months supported Citigroup as a 'universal bank', will be taking further steps to simplify and streamline the company.  And many people on Wall St believe Citigroup could be headed for an even larger-scale dismantling if the federal Government - which now has a stake in Citi thanks to its recent bailout - has its way. 'I think within 12 months, Citigroup no longer exists,' said William Smith at Smith Asset Management, who owns Citigroup shares. He has been calling for a breakup of Citigroup for years, and believes the Government will force that fate in piecemeal fashion over the coming year.  Citigroup was the quintessential financial supermarket, cobbled together over decades by Sandy Weill - the former CEO who is both lauded for bringing Citigroup its biggest profits ever and criticised for creating an unsustainably massive, impossible-to-manage conglomerate. The idea behind the supermarket is that the average person can do all his saving, borrowing and investing with one company.  Citigroup had it all, the retail and business banking operations, the investment banking business, the brokerage, even Travelers, an insurance firm. Whether that one company does it better than a number of specialised companies does, though, has been the big question facing shareholders since the deregulation of the banking industry in the 1990s.  And Citi's announcement further undermines the idea that one company can handle such diverse businesses at once. To be sure, JPMorgan Chase's model is essentially a supermarket, too, but it does not have as large an international presence as Citigroup has had. Bank of America has many disparate businesses, too - including the recent Government-brokered acquisition of Merrill Lynch, the world's largest brokerage - but it maintains a strong focus on its US operations. Perhaps more importantly, analysts argue that these banking giants were managed and integratedmuch better over the years than Citigroup was. 'The problem with Citi is the model, the execution, the management,' Smith said. 'How do you go a decade without integrating?'
