NEW YORK  News that Bank of America needs another cash government cash infusion sent stocks falling Thursday as investors feared that the banking crisis of last fall may have returned.  The federal government is considering a fresh multibillion-dollar aid package for Bank of America to help it absorb losses at Merrill Lynch, according to a person with knowledge of the discussions, who spoke to  on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the discussions. The person said the new aid package could be modeled along the lines of the financial lifeline that was thrown to Citigroup Inc. in November.  Other media organizations have had similar reports of a potential aid package for the company.  The news, which comes amid expectations that Citigroup will be announcing a further streamlining because of its ongoing problems, has Wall Street worried that banks that received billions of dollars in government bailout money are again in trouble and will need more help.  Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. issued a discouraging outlook along with its earnings report. The huge banking company managed to avoid a loss, reporting better-than-expected earnings of 7 cents per share in the October-December quarter. Analysts had predicted the company would break even.  Still, Chief Executive Jamie Dimon called the quarter 'very disappointing.' The bank said it increased its reserves to cover potential loan losses by $4.1 billion. Higher loan losses are likely if the economy deteriorates further, which is a 'distinct possibility,' Dimon said. JPMorgan is the first big U.S. bank to release fourth-quarter earnings, and analysts and investors are looking at it for signs of how the rest of the industry may be faring. The bank, which bought failing Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. last year, is viewed as one of the stronger players in the industry, so results from other big banks could prove even worse.  In the first hour of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average, already down for six straight sessions, fell 131.34, or 1.60 percent, to 8,068.80.
