NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- A pessimistic outlook from organ Chase &amp; Co. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and new dismal data from Capital One Financial (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) Thursday foreshadow deeper and more protracted pain for credit-card issuers. The worsening trend in plastic, fueled by higher unemployment, means additional misery for financial firms already weighed down by red ink on everything from soured mortgages to bad bets on capital markets. organ, in comments on its fourth-quarter earnings, said it expected losses on credit cards to climb to 8% of such loans. Capital One reported poor monthly performance in its credit card debt securities. The combined news 'affirms that people are being too optimistic about unemployment and the over-leveraged consumer when assessing earnings of credit-card issuers,' says Scott Valentin, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets. 'If you own these stocks, you have to have a long-term view of when earnings start to normalize,' says Valentin. 'For a return to normalized earnings, 2011 is more realistic.' The root of the problem is that growing numbers of cash-strapped and jobless borrowers will be unable to make their monthly payments, forcing card issuers to squirrel away greater funds to absorb losses. Moreover, the losses come at a time when funding from debt markets remains frozen, meaning credit card companies have few avenues to tap - aside from federal funds - to raise additional capital. And with unemployment expected to tick higher amid the ongoing recession, a quick turnaround in credit cards appears unlikely. Earlier Thursday, organ reported credit card losses reached 5.29% of such loans in the fourth-quarter, in line with the company's previous guidance. But Chief Financial Officer Michael Cavanagh said losses from defaults on card payments could reach 7% in early 2009, climbing to 8% through the end of the year. This guidance is up a full percentage point from the third-quarter, when organ said losses would hover around 6% in early 2009 and reach 7% by year-end. Despite the revision to 8%, FBR's Valentin expects losses to come in even higher. Moody's Investors Service, one of three primary credit rating companies, concurred in a note Thursday, as it cut organ's debt rating. organ also more than doubled its loss reserve to $3.97 billion in the last quarter compared with $1.79 billion a year earlier. It is among the largest U.S. issuers of plastic, with $190.3 billion in credit card loans at the end of the fourth-quarter. A higher loss estimate will likely spell more pain for fellow card issuers because organ's book of such loans is considered better in quality than its peers. A monthly report card released Thursday on the performance of debt securities made up of Capital One's plastic also indicates a jump in loss rates on card loans. This loss of 7.71% could shave off Capital One's fourth-quarter earnings by as much as 6 cents per share as the firm adds to its loss reserves, according to FBR's Valentin, who also said in a research note the loss 'was above our expectations.' Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) is slated to report fourth-quarter earnings Friday, while Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) will post results next week. Bank of America, Citigroup and organ are the three largest U.S. card issuers. American Express Co. (AXP:AXP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , another large card issuer, known for its well-heeled consumer base, will report fourth-quarter results at the end of the month. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
