LONDON: Barclays, the British banking giant, said Wednesday that it was in the process of cutting an additional 2,100 jobs in its retail, commercial banking and credit card businesses.  The announcement comes just a day after the bank said it is cutting 2,100 positions at its investment banking unit, Barclays Capital, at its wealth management business and its fund management operation. That brings the total of planned job cuts at Barclays this year to 4,600, including 400 information-technology positions the bank cut in Britain last week.  The cuts come shortly after the $1.75 billion acquisition of a part of Lehman Brothers - a deal that Barclays' president, Robert E. Diamond Jr., hopes will vault the bank into the upper tier of global universal banks. This fall, Barclays' investment banking division in the United States absorbed 10,000 employees with the acquisition from Lehman Brothers, but 3,000 jobs were subsequently cut.  Graham Goddard, deputy general secretary of British trade union Unite, criticized Barclays for failing to fully communicate with staff about the total number of jobs at risk and accused the management of following a strategy of 'death by a thousand cuts.' 'We cannot continue with this situation of daily job cuts without any justification or explanation of the broader strategy for the bank,' Goddard said on Tuesday. 'In this economic environment it is not acceptable for Barclays staff to arrive at work each day with the dread that they could be next in what appears to be a lottery of job losses.' A spokeswoman for the bank said that the 'vast majority' of the positions at risk have already been communicated to its staff. 'We will take all possible measures to mitigate compulsory redundancies through redeployment, using natural attrition, releasing of contractors, closing vacancies and opening voluntary redundancy registers,' the bank said in a statement on Wednesday. The bank's global work force was 156,000 at the end of October.  Barclays Capital, the investment bank, will absorb a bulk of the job losses, 1,300 in total, while the wealth management unit will lose 500 positions and Barclays Global Investors 300.  The cuts are the latest to grip financial institutions on both sides of the Atlantic. Once high-flying banks, like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Bank of America, Credit Suisse and UBS, have taken a sharp knife to their investment banking divisions. With the outlook glum, analysts expect the trend to continue.  Most of the layoffs are in areas hardest hit by the market slowdown - fixed income and all areas related to the structuring and securitization of investment products.  While the cuts were to be expected, given the paring done by rivals of Barclays, they also highlight the challenge facing bank managers as the bank tries to expand at a time that institutions like Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are becoming more conservative and risk averse.  In the wake of Citigroup's expected dismantling, Barclays' aggressive push to become a diversified investment bank puts it in a small group that includes Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and, to a lesser extent, HSBC.
