JPMorgan Chase reported a $702 million profit for its fourth quarter on Thursday, topping forecasts for a quarter expected to be among the toughest in its history.  The bank posted more than $2.8 billion in losses on a range of business, from trading and corporate lending to credit card and mortgage lending as it confronted the worst housing and job markets in decades. Its investment bank was battered by the sharp downturn in the market and rising losses as it struggled to wind down a big securities portfolio.  James Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive and the recipient of lavish praise for preparing his firm for the crisis, conceded the quarter was rough. 'Our fourth-quarter financial results were very disappointing,' Dimon said in a statement.The firm's profit, which amounts to 7 cents per share, falls far short of the nearly $3 billion, or 86 cents a share, it earned at the same time last year. But analysts estimated on average that the firm would break even on a per-share basis, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. Revenue fell to $17.2 billion from $17.4 billion.  The report sent JPMorgan's shares higher in early trading. Minutes after the market opened, shares were up 2.5 percent, or 64 cents, to $26.55.  JPMorgan, which moved its earnings announcement up one week, is the first big bank to release its results in a fourth quarter likely to be steeped in red ink. And yet it is considered by many analysts and industry insiders to be better positioned than its rivals. For all of 2008, net profit was $5.6 billion, or $1.37 a share, down 64 percent from $15.4 billion, or $4.38 in 2007. Revenue for the year dropped about 6 percent, to $67.2 billion from $71.4 billion.  Citigroup, which moved up its earnings report to Friday, has begun the spin-off of its prized brokerage to offset billions of dollars in likely losses for its own fourth quarter  and it may still need a third government lifeline. Bank of America, which reports Tuesday, is seeking billions of dollars in additional government aid to comfortably absorb Merrill Lynch.  Shares in JPMorgan have fallen 37 percent over the last 12 months. But they have held up far better than those in Citigroup and Bank of America, whose stocks have fallen by at least twice as much.  Still, Dimon offered more gloom to come: 'If the economic environment deteriorates further, which is a distinct possibility, it is reasonable to expect additional negative impact on our market-related businesses, continued higher loan losses and increases to our credit reserves.' For JPMorgan, the quarter also showed the challenges of orchestrating two tough mergers at once. Dimon has taken advantage of the credit crisis to expand JPMorgan's businesses, snapping up Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual as they collapsed. Most of JPMorgan's pain was still concentrated in its corporate businesses, including investment banking and commercial lending, as the firm grappled with its mortgage trading book and loans made to private equity deals. The firm took $1.1 billion in charges on its mortgage exposures and a hefty $1.8 billion on so-called leveraged loans, which have been difficult for lenders to resell.  And with Washington Mutual, it is bracing for more losses tied to commercial real estate.  Consumer-lending businesses led to a $416 million loss, as the firm took a $3.3 billion provision for potential losses in mortgage lending.  The bank has also exercised caution as it heads into a recession. One belated step that JPMorgan took this week to curtail exposure to troublesome consumer debt was the bank's announcement that it would stop lending through independent mortgage brokers. Instead, the bank will extend loans through its own branches, following Bank of America and other rivals in cutting back on mortgages that historically have shown higher rates of default. The bank's asset management was dragged down by large market losses and the poor results of Highbridge Capital Management, a hedge fund it owns. In October, the fund cut 10 percent of its staff and saw as much as 13 percent declines in some of its funds. Highbridge investors, like those in scores of other hedge funds, have sought to withdraw much of their capital, forcing the investment firm to limit requests to avoid liquidating assets at fire-sale prices.  Dimon, one of the first to sound alarms as problems spread from home equity loans to mortgages, has been unabashedly pessimistic over the last two months. In an interview with CNBC in December, Dimon warned that his firm's business was 'terrible' in November and December. 'It will be a tough quarter,' he told the network on Dec. 11, sending shares in JPMorgan down 11 percent that day. Since then, the word 'terrible' seems attached to his description of the firm's earnings.
