The large fourth-quarter losses reported yesterday by Bank of America and Citigroup showed the depth of the recession during the last three months of 2008, while the details suggested that the economy continues to deteriorate.  Both companies reported that losses on a wide range of loans were not just increasing but accelerating, as customers of all descriptions struggle to make payments. Defaults on credit card loans rose to record heights.  The government has now invested more than $90 billion in the two companies, hoping to lift them and the broader economy simultaneously. But the rising losses threaten to outpace the government's efforts.  Citigroup, which reported a fourth-quarter loss of $8.29 billion, announced another round of restructuring. The company said it will segregate a number of units it hopes to sell, amounting to about one-third of the company, in a new entity called Citi Holdings.  The move is a combination of theater and substance. Citigroup and its shareholders will still own all of the business units until buyers can be found, not an easy task in the present economic environment. But Citi Holdings will have its own management team, allowing each half of the company to focus on its own needs, problems and opportunities. And the distinction may allow investors to start appraising the future.  The sales eventually would shrink Citigroup to about $1.1 trillion in total assets from $2.4 trillion at the end of 2007, the firm said. The remaining company will reclaim the Citicorp name and return to its historic roots as a comprehensive bank for large businesses around the world and a retail bank in select countries including the United States, Mexico and South Korea. 'Our competitive advantage is our global presence,' chief executive Vikram Pandit said on a conference call yesterday. He also thanked his employees for persisting through the company's struggles, saying, 'It is hard for people who are not here to understand the magnitude of change that we have gone through at Citi.' Bank of America, which reported a $1.79 billion fourth-quarter loss, said it needed another round of government assistance because of its acquisition of the troubled investment bank Merrill Lynch. Merrill lost $15.31 billion in the three months before the deal closed on Jan. 1. The government announced early yesterday it would invest $20 billion to help Bank of America absorb those losses and limit the company's losses on a portfolio of troubled loans.  Chief executive Kenneth D. Lewis yesterday defended his company against critics who said it should have renegotiated the deal with Merrill as its losses mounted. 'We just thought it was in the best interest of our company and our stockholders and the country to move forward with the original terms and timing,' Lewis said. The government's support for the merger has enraged critics outside the companies who complain that Merrill Lynch shareholders were essentially paid with taxpayer money, yet taxpayers may have little to show for this. The government chose not to take a large stake in Bank of America in exchange for the new round of assistance. 'To put it bluntly, it's disgusting,' said Eric Hovde, chief executive of Hovde Capital Advisors. 'Merrill Lynch shareholders are walking away with a good chunk of money for a company that was worth nothing. They're getting paid even though taxpayers are now going to have to step in and bail out Bank of America.' The losses for both banks were larger than expected because of the difficult economic environment. Consumers are stretched, and more people are out of work; home values continue to decline, undermining the mortgages and home equity loans that banks have extended to homeowners; businesses are stressed; and more than a year into the crisis, financial firms continue to lop billions of dollars of value from their books in acknowledgment that loans and assets aren't worth as much as initially estimated.  Bank of America said that the value of troubled loans and assets more than tripled during 2008, rising to $18.23 billion from just under $6 billion at the end of 2007. Over the course of the year, the company had to more than double the amount of the money set aside to cover loan defaults, increasing the reserve to $8.5 billion from $3.3 billion a year ago. 'Credit quality deteriorated further during the quarter as the recession worsened,' the Charlotte company said in a news release. 'Consumers continued to experience high levels of stress from declining home prices, rising unemployment and tighter credit conditions.' Citigroup said that the rate of losses on credit card loans continued to 'accelerate,' nearly doubling since last year, and had now reached 8.04 percent, exceeding the highest rate during the early 1990s. The rate of losses on mortgage loans hit 2.57 percent, just below the high point in the early 1990s.  For the year, Bank of America reported a profit of $4 billion on gains in earlier quarters. Citigroup reported a loss of $18.7 billion.  The shares of both companies are among the most widely held, often by investors who relied on the regular dividend payments. Bank of America yesterday slashed its dividend to a penny per share, down from 64 cents a year ago. Citigroup will also pay a penny a share, down from 54 cents. In 2007, the companies returned more than $23 billion to shareholders, ranking second and third among all U.S. corporations.  They will not come close in 2009.  Staff writer Howard Schneider contributed to this report.
