By Gavin Jones    ROME, Jan 14 (Reuters) - Italian industrial output fell a monthly 2.3 percent in November, data showed on Wednesday, a third consecutive steep drop pointing to a manufacturing sector mired in deep recession.    The median forecast of a Reuters' poll of 18 analysts had projected a smaller fall of 1.5 percent.    'This is in line with a very negative, deep contraction of GDP in the fourth quarter. That will be true for Italy, just like in the rest of the euro zone,' said Bank of America analyst Gilles Moec.    'We are in totally unusual territory in terms of the speed of the recession. I don't think I've ever seen that, actually, even in Italy where industrial production data is usually quite volatile... It is absolutely worrying.'    Employers' lobby Confindustria, which bases its estimates on monthly surveys of its members, said December's output would show a fourth sharp fall, of around 2.1 percent.    Italy's data followed grim output figures already published by its larger euro zone peers.    German output plunged by 3.1 percent month-on-month in November and France reported a 2.4 percent decline, as industrialised economies around the world reel from the effects of a global credit crunch.    Euro zone output, published after Italy's data, showed output in the 15 countries using the euro in November fell 1.6 percent following an indentical sized decline the month before.    On a work-day adjusted year-on-year basis, Italian output in November plunged 9.7 percent, the steepest fall since the series began in January 1991. Confindustria said December would be even worse, posting an annual decline of 12.4 percent.    Output in the first 11 months of the year was down a work-day adjusted 3.5 pct from the same period of 2007.    Car production, which has been particularly hard hit around Europe by the fall in demand, plunged an adjusted 42.8 percent year-on-year in November and was down 16.3 percent over the first 11 months.    'Our forecast was near the low end of expectations but this is even worse, and it's very important to note the steep downward revisions to October and September,' said Luigi Speranza of BNP Paribas.    National statistics institute ISTAT revised down October's data to -2.0 percent from -1.2 percent and cut September's result to -3.1 percent from -2.6 percent.    September's drop was the steepest since February 1990, at the start of that series.    'I now expect industrial output in the fourth quarter to have fallen about 6 percent, which will be a strong drag on overall gross domestic product,' Speranza said.    He estimated Italian GDP to have contracted by between 1.5 percent and 2 percent in Q4 and forecast that the euro zone's third largest economy would shrink by around 2.5 percent in 2009. (additional reporting by Phil Stewart)    (editing by Victoria Main; Rome newsroom; gavin.jones@reuters.com; Phone: +39-06-8522-4232)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
