By Paul Carrel    FRANKFURT, Jan 14 (Reuters) - German economic growth slipped to a three-year low in 2008, dragged down by a marked slowdown in exports that analysts expect to continue this year and bring about the country's worst postwar recession.    Preliminary data from the Federal Statistics Office showed German gross domestic product (GDP) growth slowed to 1.3 percent last year, the country's weakest performance since 2005.    In 2007, Europe's biggest economy grew by 2.5 percent.    The mid-range forecast in a Reuters poll of 28 economists had been for real annual growth of 1.4 percent.    A global downturn has battered Germany's manufacturing sector, sparking a record decline in exports in November and fuelling fears the economy could sink into a deep recession.    Since World War Two, the German economy has never contracted by more than one percent, but some analysts believe there is a risk it could shrink by three percent or more this year.    'There's no hope that we'll be positive (in terms of GDP) in 2009. It is likely to be worse. We're expecting a contraction of 2.5 percent,' said Alexander Koch at Unicredit.    To counter this risk, Chancellor Angela Merkel's government has assembled two economic stimulus packages worth roughly 81 billion euros ($107.7 billion) over two years.    The Statistics Office estimated the economy had contracted by between 1.5 and 2.0 percent quarter-on-quarter in the final three months of 2008, which would be the biggest quarterly contraction since German reunification in 1990.    The Office added that there was a statistical drag going into this year of around 1.5 percent. This implies that even if growth were flat during each quarter of 2009, the economy would still contract by that amount over the full year.    'This is a very, very bad starting position for this year,' said Holger Schmieding at Bank of America. He had forecast a 2.5 percent economic contraction in 2009.    'That's now in the optimistic range. A minus of 3 percent is now also realistic, despite the new stimulus programme,' he said. 'The package is structured in such a way that it is only set to take effect from the second half of this year.'    Exports rose 3.9 percent last year, with imports up by 5.2 percent. This meant net trade subtracted 0.3 percent from GDP. The last time net trade had a negative impact was in 2003.    Adjusted for working days, German 2008 growth was 1.0 percent, the Office told a news conference in Frankfurt.    For a table of data, double click on    (Writing by Dave Graham, editing by Mike Peacock) ($1=.7520 Euro)   Keywords: GERMANY GDP/    (dave.graham@reuters.com; +49 30 2888 5217; Reuters Messaging: dave.graham.reuters.com@reuters.net  )    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
