1) US$85Bn gov't bailout of AIG likelyUnnamed sources say the government is likely to put up US$85bn to help rescue AIG, preventing a wave of problems for banks around the world that would open the ugliest chapter yet of the financial meltdown that has slashed billion of dollars from global stock markets.Bankers and federal officials had decided a government bailout of AIG was the best solution to save it from collapsing. The plan would call for the government to seize up to 80% of AIG and remove its management.2) Barclays seen close to deal for Lehman assetsBritish bank Barclays intends to unveil a plan to acquire all or part of Lehman's investment banking and trading operations. Barclays President Robert Diamond has addressed Lehman investment bankers to inform them of his company's intentions, unnamed sourced claimed.The deal, which was expected to be announced by early Wednesday, would throw a lifeline to more than 9,000 Lehman employees whose future was uncertain after Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday. Lehman collapsed from massive exposure to risky real estate holdings.The third-biggest bank in the U.K. had withdrawn from weekend talks with Lehman about a possible outright acquisition. There have been reports that Barclays can pick up the assets it wants for about US$2bn to US$3bn. The deal must get approval from the bankruptcy court.3) Stocks end higher after Fed keeps rates unchangedA day after the Dow fell more than 500pts amid surging fears about the financial sector, investors alternately despaired and grew optimistic about the prospects for AIG. Meanwhile, the Fed's decision, while not popular with investors clamoring for a rate cut to boost market sentiment, appeared to sidestep the second-guessing about the health of the economy that can follow a cut in difficult times. Worries about the well-being of AIG intensified this week after ratings agencies downgraded the company's credit, in turn forcing the insurer to come up with more capital. Investors fear that a failure by the world's largest insurer would touch off a wave of financial turmoil.Varying reports that the company might be working on some type of loan, perhaps from the government, corralled some of the market's worries about the company and AIG finished well off its lows. The stock fell $1.01 (21%) to $3.75 after trading as low as $1.25.The Dow rose 141.51, (1.3%) to 11,059.02, after falling about 100pts, immediately after the Fed announcement. In corporate news, Goldman Sachs posted its sharpest decline in earnings since listing in 1999. The company said quarterly earnings fell 70% from a year earlier and that it saw a marked decrease in client activity. The profit results were better than Wall Street had been expecting, though revenue fell short. The stock fell $2.49 to $133.01.Morgan Stanley fell $3.49 (11%) to $28.70, then reported better-than-expected quarterly results after the closing bell.4) Fed shows tough love and holds key rate steadyThe Fed left its key rate at 2% for the third straight meeting. It marked the first meeting this year the FOMC, which sets interest rate policy, agreed unanimously with a decision.The prime lending rate for millions of consumers and businesses stayed at 5%. The prime rate applies to certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans. The Fed's key rate and the prime rate are at four-year lows.The Fed's view of economic and financial conditions, however, was dourer than its last assessment. Economic growth appears to be slowing as consumers hunker down and export growth cools off a bit, and "strains in financial markets have increased significantly," the Fed said.Over the last few months, the FOMC have signaled that its next move on interest rates would probably be an increase to fend off inflation. Given current economic conditions, economists are now saying the likelihood of a rate increase over the next 6 to 9 months has all but disappeared.Inflation should moderate later this and next year, the Fed said. It dropped language contained in its August assessment that some barometers of consumer and business expectations of inflation have been "elevated." That suggested slightly less concern about inflation even as the Fed made clear it would remain vigilant on this front.5) Oil prices sink below $92 on Wall Street tumultIt is widely expected that the economic downturn should guarantee more of the money-saving energy conservation measures of US consumers of the past year: Americans will cut back on driving, airlines will keep fewer planes in the air and U.S. manufacturers will be shipping fewer products. That in turn was expected to keep crude prices down.Light, sweet crude for October delivery fell $4.56 to settle at $91.15 a barrel on the NYME, after earlier dipping to $90.51, its lowest level since Feb. 8. 6) Big fall in energy pushes consumer prices downConsumer prices edged down 0.1% last month, the Labor Department reported Tuesday, a significant improvement from a 1.1% price spike in June and a 0.8% rise in July.Analysts said the August decline should be followed by more price moderation in coming months if prices continue falling. This will give the Fed more room to cut interest rates if needed to combat the current severe bout of market turmoil.The central bank met on Tuesday but decided to leave interest rates unchanged despite the dip in prices seen in the consumer inflation report. The Fed said in a statement that the risks of weak growth and higher inflation both remained "of significant concern."7) Singapore says Lehman unit needs approval for paymentsSingapore's central bank said on Tuesday the local unit of Lehman Brothers will need to seek its permission before it pays out its funds to third parties. The statement came after the SGX suspended new trading positions of Lehman in the securities and derivatives markets8) ADB warns financial crisis could hit Asia's economiesAsia's developing economies, the fastest growing in the world, should expand by 7.5% this year but financial convulsions in the West could hurt growth, the ADB said on Tuesday.The biggest risk was that the U.S. financial crisis would affect G3 economies indefinitely, hurting Asian exports and financial markets. "If the impact goes beyond 2009 that will be very, very negative for Asia."The Manila-based bank's latest 2008 growth forecast, worked out before Lehman Brothers collapsed and Merrill Lynch was sold in the worst financial crisis in the United States in decades, was only slightly lower than an 7.6% estimate in April.9) Singapore Keppel gets $878mln China waste projectsSingapore conglomerate Keppel Corp  said on Tuesday its environmental engineering unit has agreed to develop water and solid waste treatment projects in China worth about RMB6bn.Keppel Seghers' agreement with China's Guangdong GuangYe Environmental Protection Industrial Group is to develop the projects over the "near-term" for cities and counties across the Guangdong province, Keppel said in a statement.
