LONDON (AP)  Oil prices fell to $95 a barrel on Monday  after Hurricane Ike inflicted minimal damage to oil installations on the  Texas coast.  Federal officials said Sunday that the storm destroyed at least 10 oil and gas  platforms and damaged pipelines in the Gulf of  Mexico  only a small amount of the 3,800 production platforms in  the Gulf. Three years ago, back-to-back hurricanes knocked out more than 100  platforms. Power outages were slowing efforts to restart the refineries. Valero  Energy said only one of its closed refineries had power, and spokesman Bill Day  said he couldn't estimated how long it would take to resume production. However,  gasoline prices rose nearly 5 cents a gallon Monday, bringing the total increase  in the three days since Hurricane Ike slammed into Texas to almost 17 cents,  according to a nationwide survey.  Investors must absorb the bankruptcy filing at Lehman  Brothers and Merrill Lynch's forced sale to Bank of America for $50 billion in  stock. And perhaps most ominously, American International Group is reportedly  asking the Federal Reserve for emergency funding. The world's largest insurance  company plans to announce a major restructuring Monday. The swift developments  are the biggest yet in the 14-month-old credit crises that stems from now toxic  subprime mortgage debt. U.S. stocks fell moderately at the  opening bell Monday, then got worse, after the stunning reshaping of the Wall  Street landscape. Global stocks fared much worse as a feverish sell-off in  Europe and Asia turned markets sharply lower.    WASHINGTON  The  nation's industrial output plunged in August by nearly four times the amount  that had been expected. It's the worst performance since Hurricane Katrina  devastated the Gulf Coast in 2005. The Federal Reserve  reported Monday that industrial output dropped 1.1% last month, far worse than  the 0.3% decline economists had been expecting. The weakness was led by an 11.9%  drop in production of motor vehicles and parts, reflecting the hard times facing  the U.S. auto industry. The  U.S. manufacturing sector has been  battered by a prolonged housing slump and feeble demand for autos, due to the  weak economy and the big jump in gasoline prices this year.
