ByGREGORY MEYERSeptember 15, 2008;PageC1Just two months ago, $100 oil seemed like a distant and fond memory. Now it's back on the scene, bringing a mix of relief and trepidation.After a lone trade at $99.99 a barrel Friday, benchmark crude futures pushed lower Sunday even after Hurricane Ike forced widespread shutdowns of Gulf Coast refineries and oil platforms.Light, sweet crude for October delivery was at $99.09 a barrel late Sunday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down $2.09, or 2.1%, in a special early electronic-trading sessions scheduled in response to the storm.The move lower raised the odds that oil will close below $100 for the first time since March 4 upon its Monday settlement.Oil futures have slumped by nearly a third from their peak of more than $145 in July. While many forecasters say the world's long-term thirst for oil should keep prices at a simmer for years to come, they aren't ruling out a return to double digits for now."If the market could overshoot on the way up, it can certainly undershoot on the way down on bearish sentiment," said Harry Tchilinguirian, senior oil market analyst at BNP Paribas Commodity Derivatives in London.Sub-$100 crude won't necessarily be a boon for the stock market. Oil remains 25% pricier than a year ago, pinching consumers, manufacturers and transportation companies. Falling oil prices also reflect the slowdown under way in big economies, analysts say. Oil at $100, they say, is probably not cheap enough to let rich-country demand spring back.In the U.S., the world's most voracious oil consumer, evidence shows "consumers are both expecting the oil price to stay high and the economy to remain subdued," with drivers choosing more-efficient cars and driving less and businesses reviewing the way they handle stocks, manufacturing and shipping, the International Energy Agency said in a report last week.Whether $100 is a stopping point on the way lower or a new price floor will also depend on whether demand in emerging economies, much of it still shielded by government subsidies, holds up.The Energy Information Administration says crude will top $126 next year on average as consumption grows in China, India, Latin America and the Middle East. A cold winter this year could also drive up heating fuel demand -- oil use that's not discretionary.Feeding oil's climb beyond $100 a barrel this year was a mix of production disappointments and steadily growing global consumption. In 2007, world oil demand outstripped supply by 500,000 barrels, according to the International Energy Agency. Demand grew by one million barrels a day, while supply grew by a tenth of that amount. On Jan. 2, 2008, Nymex crude first touched $100.Instability in the stock and credit markets and the dollar's weakness earlier this year added to hard assets' appeal for investors. But in August, investment funds flowed into commodities at their slowest rate in more than two years, according to Barclays Capital.Eventually, high prices caught up with consumers in weakening big economies, with oil demand declining by a million barrels a day from last year in the world's most-industrialized countries.When new barrels pledged by Saudi Arabia also started filling tankers, the combination made a potent cure for record prices.As the downturn snowballed, even glaring supply threats didn't stem selling. Prices fell after Russia's offensive in pipeline-laced Georgia.Like Ike, Hurricane Gustav shut down virtually all oil production on the Gulf Coast yet prices declined several days in a row earlier this month."When the market is bullish, bearish news doesn't matter," said Hussein Allidina, head of commodities research at Morgan Stanley. "In same vein, when you're bearish it takes a lot to change the sentiment."After Hurricane Ike's landfall in Texas Saturday, 16 refineries in Texas and Louisiana responsible for nearly a quarter of U.S. capacity were either shut down, running at reduced rates or facing flooding. Still, the storm spared most refineries from major wind and water damage, though widespread power outages kept them from quickly returning to service."At this point the feeling is they kind of dodged a bullet there," said Peter Beutel, president of Cameron Hanover, an energy-risk-management firm in New Canaan, Conn.Write toGregory Meyer atgreg.meyer@dowjones.com
