Guardian.co.uk Stock markets around the world tumbled again today and the US dollar weakened as euphoria over America's $700bn (377bn) bailout plan for the financial industry evaporated.The FTSE 100 index had plunged by 3% by midday in another anxious session, losing almost 160 points to 5076.3.The FTSE was dragged lower by banking stocks. HBOS was the biggest faller on the index, tumbling 14% to 179.2p, while Lloyds TSB was down 9% at 251p, cutting the value of its all-share offer for HBOS.Royal Bank of Scotland lost 8.5%, and shares in the beleaguered buy-to-let lender Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley slumped 11.5% to 25p, a fall of 4p.The steep falls in banking shares came after the latest monthly data from the British Bankers' Association showed mortgage approvals in Britain plunged 64% to a record low, as the housing market ground to a halt. Just 21,086 people took out loans to purchase homes last month. Howard Archer at Global Insight described the figures as a "really dismal set of mortgage data".The slump in mortgage approvals revived worries that HBOS's takeover by Lloyds may not solve its funding problems. HBOS, Britain's biggest mortgage lender, agreed to an all-share takeover by Lloyds last week. Lloyds is offering 0.83 of its shares for each HBOS share. Analysts said there was also an outside risk that shareholders would reject the Lloyds offer, which needs 75% approval.&amp;nbsp;Alex Potter at Collins Stewart said: "If funding markets normalise, this business could look marginally cheap. If they remain frozen well into 2009 'new Lloyds' could react a lot like 'old HBOS'."&amp;nbsp;Global stocks had rallied on Friday when the rescue plan, drawn up by US treasury secretary Henry Paulson, was announced. But as in Asia overnight, the mood in Europe was negative today as the US dollar weakened and stocks on Wall Street suffered another tailspin yesterday.&amp;nbsp;The Bush administration's bailout package, which would allow the US treasury to buy toxic mortgage debts from crisis-stricken firms, is awaiting congressional approval which could drag into next week. Critics are concerned that the plan will push up the national debt, further weakening the already fragile US economy."There are still a lot of question marks on the bailout plan and the longer it takes to be approved, the more doubts the market will have," said Gerard Rigby, an energy consultant in Sydney.Amid growing uncertainty, the Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 3.3% to 11,015.69 last night.With Paulson and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke starting two days of congressional hearings today, fears over the bailout plan are also weighing on the dollar. Analysts at UBS said the uncertainty "will keep the dollar on the back foot for now". Paulson and Bernanke appear before the Senate banking committee at 2.30pm London time today.Against the yen, the dollar fell to a low of 105.17 today. The euro hit a high of $1.4826 against the dollar, while the pound bought $1.8527 this morning.Sue Trinh, senior currency strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Sydney, said: "What's weighing on the dollar is the question of how it will ultimately be financed. Details still remain lacking and there are concerns about a delay or talks running into hurdles in Congress."Oil prices fell below $108 a barrel after surging yesterday on hopes the plan would improve the outlook for energy demand. US light crude for November delivery dropped $2.17 to $107.20 a barrel. London Brent crude fell $2.16 to $103.88.Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng index slid 2.68% to 19,105.79, and China's Shanghai Composite index closed down 1.56% at 2201.51. Trading in Japan was suspended for a public holiday.
