Economic Times 9/16/08China cut interest rates for the first time in six years and allowed most banks to set aside smaller reserves as worsening credit-market turmoil and weakening export demand dimmed the outlook for economic growth. The People's Bank of China reduced the one-year lending rate to 7.20% from 7.47%, effective Tuesday, and lowered the reserve ratio at the nations smaller banks by 1 percentage point. The changes were in a statement on the central banks website on Monday. And these moves from Australia and New Zealand last weekWSJ 9/2/08The Reserve Bank of Australia cut its cash rate target for the first time in nearly seven years in a bid to avert an economic hard landing but signaled it will be cautious in cutting rates further.The central bank, as expected, lowered its cash rate target by a quarter of a percentage point to 7%. "The board will continue to assess prospects for demand and inflation over the period ahead, and set monetary policy as needed to bring inflation back to the 2% to 3% target over time," central-bank Gov. Glenn Stevens said.After defying global trends by raising interest rates earlier this year, the cut brings the reserve bank into closer alignment with a number of other major central banks that have cut rates as global growth has slowed. The Reserve Bank of Australia's cut was the first since December 2001 and came after 12 rate increases since May 2002.And New Zealand cut rates more then expected thats why the Kiwi cratered on the newsAFP 9/12/08Faced with a rapidly slowing economy, New Zealand's central bank cut the official interest rate by half a percentage point on Thursday, double the reduction forecast by analysts.A cut in the official cash rate (OCR) of a quarter of a percentage point had been widely expected.But Reserve Bank of New Zealand governor Alan Bollard went further and cut it to 7.5 percent from 8 percent, pointing to a "marked slowdown" in the local economy, and further deterioration in the outlook for the global economy."While domestic activity is likely to pick up late this year as a result of personal tax cuts ... we expect a prolonged period of household sector adjustment and below-average growth," Bollard said.And calls for a US rate cut CBC 9/15/08Look for the U.S. Federal Reserve to cut interest rates by one-quarter of a percentage point Tuesday as Washington grapples with the growing financial crisis on Wall Street, economists say.That would mean the Federal Open Market Committee, the key body deciding at what level to set U.S. interest rates, would push lending costs down to 1.75 per cent from the current level of two per cent."The market is pricing in a 25-basis-point cut to the Fed funds rate," said Sherry Cooper, chief economist with BMO Financial Group. One hundred basis points equals one percentage point.My comment: With the recent pullback in commodities and especially oil the authorities have put another deflation scare into the markets. This will give them the cover they need to begin the next round of monetary inflation. It was interesting watching the dollar go right up to the long term resistance line of 80 and kiss it before weakening again. If the index can't get above 80 and hold then a rate cut could mean another leg down in the dollar and a gold rally. Not a prediction but be aware of what is going on as the commodities are bombed out and the dollars straight up rocket ride appears to be out of fuel.
