         Okay, here we go. At last, the final installment.(Brings to mind, Space: the final frontier, doesnt it?...)When we last left our trepid (as opposed to intrepid, as Ive never been accused of resembling a Dodge) author, she had lifted the lid on a Pandoras Box of success as an inspirational writer: winning second place in a pretty major contest for a manuscript that was, basically, an experiment. That book ultimately went on to become my first published novel, the story of which could easily take up another three or four blog posts. But the impact of that sale, momentous as it was on the surface, worked some havoc into my previously well-ordered writing life and, I believeunfortunatelytook it off track.Part of that derailment happened because, as I mentioned, I internalize other peoples expectations to an extraordinary degree for a person whos normally the devils advocate in almost any situation. One of the great conflicts of my life, one I thought I was going to deal with in my first marriage, has been a longing to Just Belong Somewhere. To just Be One Of The Girls. Ive never really been that. Ive always been the one with the unique insights or the other angle or the voice of reason or even conscience. I tried to leave that brand of self behind and become the Perfect (Conventional) Christian Wife in that first marriage. It didnt workfor many reasons, none the least of which was that the man I picked for a husband wasnt, in the end, good husband material. But I so wanted to be a good little Maxwell Housewife (remember that commercial?) that I swallowed down a lot of who I really was, for a long time, in the desperate attempt to fit in. In the end, of course, none of it worked, because anytime we try to be something were not at the core, the core eventually pushes its way back up to the surfaceat which point we have two choices, and only one leads to a mentally healthy existence. :-)Unfortunately, some of us learn a good lesson in one aspect of our lives but then dont carry that lesson through to the whole. And thats what happened to me where my writing was concerned.Its hard to explain this without either writing thousands of words or sounding like some kind of wimp, but Ill try.Once upon a time, I was a happy secular romance writer. I believed I had found a place to fit in, a genre in which I was going to succeed, and a group of people who would cheer me on every step of the way. Thenthings started to change. I began getting repeated rejections and hearing repeated critiques that hinted that maybe I actually didnt write romance at all. Or at least not contemporary sweet romancewhich made me feel a bit unsteady on my writing feet. After all, if what youve been telling yourself you do for years and years isnt what youre actually doingis it the fault of your own perception, or is it bad advice? I honestly didnt know. I was getting advice from people who ought to knowwriters who wrote for lines I wanted to break into. I figured they were as good as anyone to give me a barometer of where I was going to fit in the genreonly they all said different things. Very different things.When I read my Golden Heart book first chapter to my RWA group, three Silhouette Romance authors point-blank told me, This is clearly your voice, and this is a Silhouette Romance.When I subjected my romantic suspense to various reads and readers, I got even more confusing feedback. That book has been called everything from a straight romance to a mainstream inspirational romantic suspense to a mainstream novel to womens fiction to a paranormal towell, you get the idea.One writer whose opinion I respect read some of my stuff and told me I ought to think about writing historicals, specifically Regencies, because I have just the hint of wry in my writing that would go well in that genreand a style that tends to the more lyrical and would suit the tone of a historical novel much better than a contemporary.And then out of nowhere, I came up with a chick-lit voicewith its accompanying comedic tonethat I found myself able to drop intoonce again, for short periods of time. (Not sure if I could maintain it for a whole book, but then again.)And then, of course, there was the inspy side to my writing. The spiritual side. The box into which I was getting shoved with ever more (gentle) force simply because I write clean, I write characters who go to church, and I had, in fact, published an inspyand everyone knows that you shouldnt try to sell too many radically different kinds of stories out of the gate, because if you do that, publishers wont know what your audience is, or your brand is, andAlong about this time, the romance genre took off in some completely off-the-charts directions, and I told myself, Well, clearly, I cant be a part of a genre thats going to do what this is going to do. So thats it for romance for me. I obviously dont write romance. I need to find what I do write.Only then the question posed itself: how was I going to decide that?Some people can only write one thing. Their voice is so clearly, so strongly one thing or the other, that you cant imagine them anywhere else. But apparently I am not that writer; Ive seen it for myself in the different kinds of writing I do for romantic suspense or woo-woo versus the sweet, funny, and innocent tone of my first book. But where was my strongest voice? Where was I most talented? And then, as a Catholic Christian, I started asking what I should commit to writingand where my voice should be used, and howIm sure you know whats coming. The moment that s word entered into the mental negotiations, I effectively paralyzed myself. I didnt know thats what I was doing; I had an uneasy feeling about trying to reframe my form of expression and the stories I told, but I increasingly began to feel like that was my duty somehow. I increasingly have come, in the last couple of years, to tell myself I need to write godlyor theres something off kilter in my Christian commitment. And I sure as heck didnt want my writing to be a bad witness!ButThe problem was, and is, that I never came from the place where my writing was ever supposed to be a witness in the first place. Yes, I believe I do everything for the glory of God; but previously, I considered secular writing perfectly okay, in that I never glorified anything ungodly. I may have dealt with ghostly voices, or spirits, or otherworldly manifestationsbut I never portrayed them as something a character based her faith life on. My writing may have had characters swear or use rough languagebut those were situations in which most people I know would have used those words. I wrote what I knew, I didnt write anything dirty, and I told a good storyand for years, that was enough.But thenI started wondering. And I started being convicted on all kinds of things Id been writingnot because they were necessarily wrong, but because they werent reflective of a spiritual persons writingor so I thought. My characters were ordinary people. But maybe they needed to be much more than that, if I were going to be true to my faith in my writing.Over time, as a result of selling one inspirational novel and being surrounded by loving, talented Christian writerscoupled with going to work in a Catholic publishing house where our entire mission is what the Church teaches and whyI came to believe that there were simply story types, storylines, and storytelling styles that I would no longer be able to use if I were to be a consistent Christian witness.With that, one brick went up in a creative wall.Then, I vowed Id never try to sell to Harlequin again, because they came out with an erotica line and I couldnt be a part of a house that would do that.And another brick went up.Then, I realized that many of my previous fellow genre writers were writing, in a word, smutand soon, I found myself having difficulty with more than merely not selling to Harlequin; I in effect couldnt even participate in a genre that could tolerate that anymore.And another brick went up.Then, I thoughtwell, Ive sold one inspy, so that means I may have a foot in the door of that market. But that then meant that I needed to make sure the spiritual content of my books was Christian, and made no bones about it. I needed to have characters who viewed the world through a Christian lensall the time. I needed to show them praying, to have them refuse to believe any spirit that wasnt testedto have them going to church and that be integral to the plot of the book.And another brick went up.Then, I began to noticeand bemoanthe lack of contemporary Catholic fiction out there. I was a good Catholic, I was a good writerthat must mean that I was supposed to start focusing my fiction on Catholic themes. I was not an evangelicalso what was I doing watering down the Catholic identity of the books? No, I needed to put in more Catholic references. I needed to put together my stories in such a way that people had no doubt where my characters stood.And another brick went up.Then, I realized there were really no outlets for publishing Catholic contemporary fiction. So here I was, in a Catholic publishing house, the perfect person to bring fiction into this placeonly that wasnt in their plans, and wont be for some time to come, if ever. So even if I wrote something good, solid, entertaining, and doctrinally steadyor if I knew someone who had, and desperately thought their book should be out theremy employer wasnt going to be the place where I could even edit that kind of book, much less publish one of my own.And another brick went up.Then, I went to ACFW with the idea that I could reinvent myself.That I could get an agent, or an editor, to take me on with something I already have, or something I could make fit if I needed to. And I proceeded to commit to doing so.And then I woke up tha...
