So even I got involved in the Cup today, mainly because after a Totally Shitty Day yesterday, Audrey had a Totally Easy Day today which involved a lot of feeding and sleeping, both of which require little movement from me and involve the ability to look at a television or quickly access the net.Yesterday MM noted our bets on his form guide and left it for me to follow. I told him this morning that I doubted I'd get to look at it but thanks. Of course come race day and I'm getting instructions on how to access our online betting account to place bets on Audrey's behalf. I picked Bubble Below in the 6th (it seemed appropriate somehow for her) and Dzzll...something... Dalzorkonl something... in the 10th. Former did a Jana Pittman at the Athens Olympics, but Dorkalvinl came first and netted Audrey a tidy 98.50. I am going to withdraw a $100 note from our account and put it in her Westpac VW Bug piggy bank for her to have. It currently has the $5 that my grandma gave to her for being born (Mum and I were cruelly amused that Grandma thought $5 bought anything other than a latte but it will mean a lot to Audrey when she's too young to have a concept of the value of money). I'm hoping that being a $100 note it'll just be too much for her to consider spending at once so she'll keep it for a while.I had a feeling Bauer would place in the race that stopped the nation, based somewhat on Offsiders on the weekend when someone made this offhand comment of not quite getting the Mad Rush obsession when Bauer as stable mate was a better distance horse or something of that nature. Plus Jack Bauer, but Jack takes 24 hours to do something that really should only take him about an hour, so I wouldn't consider him a winner, just a finisher. I had a look at the odds on Bauer and thought it worthy of a place flutter and asked MM to put a place bet for me. Turns out MM put an each way bet so when I was thrilled that my prediction of a place came true MM was not so thrilled as he lost out on a couple hundred extra bucks by half a horse nostril. I keep trying to reassure him that I'd have only spent it on baby clothes Audrey doesn't need so not to worry about it but I think it's the principle of it for him, especially as he picked the winner last year and made a packet.I also did that thing where I look at a funny horse name and think 'I would so put money on that horse if I had money to throw away' and then it wins with huge odds. This happened twice today with Hips Don't Lie (damn straight) and Juggle the Books. I try not to let it bother me as in the past when this has happened I start to think I'm on to something so bet on other horses with fun names and they always run shit. It's better to say 'Ah well I missed out on some cash there' than 'Ah well I missed out on some cash and was then persuaded to part with some cash I actually had'.All in all we came out ahead by about $30. It's never about attempting to make money for us, but it's really nice to know that you can have a day's worth of fun and at the end of it have not really spent any money doing so.
