          ...is significant for a variety of reasons. At least here in Australia, it is Melbourne Cup Day. The Melbourne Cup is the biggest horse race in Australia (to put it into perspective, our equivilant of the Kentucky Derby or Royal Ascot) - and this year's was the closest race in this history. It was unbelieveable, but this year's winner was "Viewed" - who won literally by a very small margin, and also giving legendary Australian horse trainer Bart Cummings a record 12th Melbourne Cup victory.In the United States of America, of course is the Presidential Elections - which should be interesting. I think Barack Obama looks quite a promising candidate (and obviously is considered the favourite), and could very well make history as the first African-American President of the USA. I also think he is perhaps the most progressive candidate (at least from a major party) ever to stand for office. John McCain on the other hand, in fairness, probably has the stigma of George W. Bush lingering above him, which certainly make his task of victory even more difficult - irrespective of what his policies are or his potential ability to lead the nation (even if I disagree with his point of view, might I add...). Also, I think the selection of Sarah Palin as his running mate, to say the least, backfired - given the fact that more attention seemed to be focused on her than him, and also some of the controversies in regards to her too. Also perhaps in McCain's case, the present situation with the global economy, the legacy of Iraq, and his age (given he's against a much younger opponent) have counted against him. But still, anything can happen at an election...Also today was quite good for me for a couple of reasons. For a start, the Reserve Bank of Australia announced a 0.75% cut in the official interest rate - which I'm happy about, because that means less for me to pay off my mortgage when I finally get the funds from the loan. In fact, in the past two months, Australia has had a 1.75% drop in offical rates - so obviously, I've picked a good time to enter the property market. Also in regards to my property, I received offical confirmation from the Office of State Revenue that I am entitled to, and will be receiving, the recently announced $14,000 First Home Buyers Grant (up from the previous $7,000 grant). I was lucky in that aspect, as there was a delay from the vendors of the property (who live overseas) to send over the paperwork to exchange contracts - it arrived right on the 14th of last month, the very day this new grant was announced - and I was lucky to scrap in!!! It just shows you that sometimes, fortune can run your way.Getting off the topic a little, because it is something that occured a couple of days ago, but I guess ties in a little with the smashing of racial stereotypes in particular fields - as aforementioned in regards to Barack Obama, but something I'd like to mention. I'm actually very happy to see Lewis Hamilton win the World Driver's Championship in the Formula One (even if it was VERY close in the points race to the line with Felipe Massa). He seems to be a fairly down to earth person (which seems quite refreshing in the domain of elite profressional sport - but just a pity that chick from that awful "girl group" The Pussycat Dolls seems to be throwing herself at him... but anyway...), and a great competitor and driver (given that he has done EXTREMELY well in only two seasons in Formula One) - but he has created history by becoming not only the youngest F1 World Champion, but the first black World Champion - which is a feat given that motorsports is all but virtually dominated by competitors of European or Caucasian decent (not to mention its all but male dominated too), and also sometimes seen as somewhat elistist. But fantastic to see it happen finally... now all we need is Danica Patrick to win the IndyCar Series and break down some further barriers on the gender front...          
