Wow! last night... I was not expecting it to go as well as it did!first-off, i couldnt think of what to wear, it was a comic book theme, but when i got there  barely anyone did comic book charctors.... so i walk in the door and get yelled at by the host and hostess ;)next, my date that i was going to take bailed so i called an old friend and luckly she was just finishing up taking her brother out trick-or-treating.so anyway i didnt know anyone there except a few people from last years party and the host and hostess. later my ex-manager showed up with his girlfriend and we started talking and meeting new people and remembering more people from last year and getting drinks pushed into our faces :))))).so we got drunk and had a blast and just listened to the other drunk people talk about random screwed up stuff, luckly i was a big hit at last years party and most people remembered me :) lol.so everything was super fun, now onto these past few months....PC Club closed out of the blue, then reopened two days later to close again out of the blue a month after. since then i was just enjoying not working and relaxing.A few months after PC Club closed I ran into a customer who came into pc club all the time and he offered me a job on the spot. Its been so much fun working there. I have been doing contracting work for companies like Starbucks, Sports Authority, Bank of America, Home Depot, and tons of other places. Last month they flew me to Cali in the bay area and I was down there working for a week before they sent me back. I got back from Walla Walla Washington yesterday morning from a project that last a few days.I bought a motorcycle. 1997 Suzuki Katana. Have been having a lot of fun riding that around but I still love driving my car a lot more.Over the past few months I regained a relationship with an old friend (old friend's exgirlfriend), then started 'dating' which was pretty weird, but it was fun and it seemed like it was a great run even for how short it was.Other than that, i think that covers most things. Just working and saving money for a car or house or something....not sure yet. Still having a blast hanging out with friends and just doing whatever, wherever.-James--
