WOMANIZER WOMANIZER YOU YOU YOU WOMANIZER YOU WOMAN YOU ZER WO YOU YOU WOMANIZER WOMZANIZER YOU YOU YEAH YOUThat's pretty much how the song goes.  Its actually not bad, hopefully Britney can make a comeback!  Is it just me, or is this CD coming out not very long after her last?Oh well.. I've been taking awkward naps lately.  Today I slept from like 9-10... POST MERIDIEM.  Man, I gotta sleep soon cause I have to wake up at 8am.  Tomorrow, we pilot the next lab!Also, I am pretty sure I am sick.  I always get sore and body aches when I get sick, and I have a sore throat.  I had to work through the fire and flames of me dragonfever.  I have to take whatever shifts I can get because I'm spending money, and not making it.  We need a black president up in this country, now!  Okay.. so what do I show you first.. Aha!  How about this stack of boxes I made at work (Staples) a few months ago?  I'm too lazy to count again, but there's like 30 boxes there and the height must have been like 14 feet or something.  Man, my mouse is seriously dying.  Today at work, I was feeling out different mouses to replace this one, but I think I just want to look for the same exact one.  I'm just so used to the weight and handle of this one and I am not willing to change. &amp;gt;: Alright, remember Pokemon cards?  Well, I loved Pokemon cards back in the day, and recently I saw how bastardized its become.  Charizard was my favorite Pokemon back then (Charmander was the first I chose).  Check it out:Okay this picture is huge, time for a cutOkay, those remakes aren't so bad.. right?  Well prepare to get fucked!LIGHTNING CHARIZARDS!?  Man.. Old Charizard was fine the way he was!  ;_;How about some pictures from Universal Studios?  Yeah, pictures!snoopy smoking a jDamnit, facebook maintenence stuff, I'll show pictures tomorrow.  Man I was thinking of something to write, and I completely forgot.  Totally should have done notes.  Uh.. My bank of america checks came!  They were NOT hello kitty as I had wanted :(.  God I hope my card is hello kitty still.  It hasn't come yet.Oh!  You know what grinds my gears?  People who don't buy products that have slightly damaged packagings.  This only applies to some cases!  If you're buying cereal and the box is damaged, but the bag inside is intact, TAKE THAT DAMAGED BOX.  If you're buying cereal and the bag inside is open, then don't buy it.  If you're buying a stack of dvd's and the plastic wrapping is damaged, BUY IT.  If the stack casing is completely cracked and discs are broken DONT BUY IT.  Don't be that jerk that puts the broken plastic one back.. YOU'RE GONNA RIP IT OFF ANYWAY!  Okay, last thing and I'll go to sleep.  Its late, but I'm not tired.  That nap was really powerful.  Here's what my computer looks like:My Desktop:My Browser:
