Ok So I realized that I haven't written at all in over a month.....not that it's a crisis since I try to keep in touch the old fashioned way with everyone.  But you know, somethings I'd rather write than say.Things got pretty bad for a while.  Long story short, everything was fine until Gio got hit with about 3 or 4 bills at once that totally drained him.  One of which is that Bank of America didn't update his account promptly, meaning when he checked it he had money in the account and there were no pending posts.  So he bought gas and and lunch and suddenly he's hit with $160 in overdraft fees for posts that posted late.  He called them up and they basically said he needs to be more responsible, blah blah blah, and they won't do anything about it.  That's technically Gio's business but what that means is that he can't help me with bills.  So I've paid the cable and electric so far by myself.  He had pulled out a cash advance the week before to pay for half the rest (b/c there was no physical way for me to pay it by myself) and then the bank thing happened.  It's been a little scary.  We had problems with food and everything is reliant on the paychecks coming in.  We're making it, the bills are getting paid, nothing's been shut off or anything- we just have to be VERY careful.  I credit our perseverance to the fact that we both grew up very poor and we have that survival instinct ingrained in us. But we have no room for luxuries like going to dinner or buying anything for ourselves until something budges.  Needless to say, Xmas is looking a little depressing.  We're hoping something will pick up before then.  I literally broke down in Wal-mart in the other day shopping with Gio, and those of you who know me well know how hard that is for me to admit.  I truly appreciate people's charity towards us, but I highly value being financially independent.     I'm looking forward to getting my test scores in and getting my certification so that I can stop working two jobs and try for a full time position with benefits.  Tutoring is ok, but only being paid monthly is just not going to work in this situation.  Not to mention I have to pay taxes on that money.  Right now that's not feasible at all.  I'm seriously thinking finishing up with this batch of kids and then quitting so that I can go on the hunt for a full time position and get more sub jobs at the same time and thus get paid regularly.  I've been having a lot of encounters lately.  As I was writing the last paragraph Gio's sword and stand just randomly fell over and made me jump.  It was right as a candle on my altar burnt out, too. Last night in the shower the water wouldn't run hot until I promised an offering to the Fay.  I think it's a good thing that we have visitors, and despite the anxiety of our financial problems I feel more in step with the universe than ever.  I'm noticing signs everywhere.  I'm taking the cosmic hint, so to speak. I feel oddly at peace. I am very happy Obama got elected.  It was nice to see someone I voted for win for a change.  So I hope he delivers on what he's promised. Regardless, I am actually looking forward to Xmas.  Halloween, Xams and Beltane are my favorite times of year.  I love the bright glittery things and winter wear and children getting excited and seeing everybody and baking and the smells! Oh, the smells!  Gio and I are thinking (thinking!!) of giving each other promise rings this year as a sort of "engagement".  (It won't be a diamond ring.)  Nobody get excited, it depends how things pan out in the money department.  We're also thinking of doing it Celtic handfasting style where we go a year and day and then have a ceremony. But who knows.  We're definitely in it for the long haul and we will get married eventually.   So, yeah.  That's the update.  Enjoy.
