Thursday, I went with my mom and my aunt Olga to La Gamarra, the district with the super cheap stores and stuff that is home also to La Parada - basically a giant sort of open-air flea market you will remember from my LAST trip's posts. La Parada is not a very super safe place, but I had my mom and I prepared with our purses across our chests and some of our money in pockets instead of all in one place. But, you see, mom has this thing with lapsing in to English when she's talking to me. She even asked a clerk in a department store a question in English yesterday! This makes you a target in certain places since, here, English = American = rich. So mom and I are in La Parada with Olga, we had just entered into the crazy zone about 5 minutes when Olga stopped to talk to one of her friend/merchant guys. Mom says "shit!" I turn around saying "What?" and see a guy in a white tee and a blue cap running off with mom's purse! He had pulled it, hard, with both hands and when mom turned in the direction the force, she saw him. I followed him up the little dirt hill that serves as a median for one lane of traffic in La Parada and the other. His cohorts - one of whom distracted my aunt by talking to her - were running with him. I was yelling "Detenlo! Ladron!" Which means, "Stop him! Thief!" To see a woman running up the hill shouting got the attention of motorcycle cops (the most common) at the other corner, so they were not far behind the action. I didn't run down the hill because I would have killed myself and the police rounded the corner he had taken first. Olga's friend/merchant was up there with me in just a minute and helped me walk down the hill. We followed to where the police were questioning some guys who were sitting at a table. They know that these guys work together to pass off snatched purses and hide them so that even if they are caught quickly, you can't narrow down who has it or where they put it. Friend/merchant guy called the police station to get some more people there. After some details and some talking - and mom very eventually getting there - mom positively identified the guy by his face. He was also wearing the same pants. I only noticed the shirt and cap - the easiest things to change. Mom has a great memory for things like this, so I didn't doubt her. We talked with the police, gave them details of what happened and what was stolen and they eventually took us all (including the 3 accused) to the Comisario of the district of La Victoria. Mom and I had to ride with officers on their Hondas, so it was actually sort of fun. We waited a bit, a few different officers came and asked us the same questions, got our full names and told us to cancel the bank card that was in there... good thing it was for Bank of America. We can't exactly make international calls from my dinky local cell phone. While we were waiting, I called the hostal and got my friend (and the receptionist) Fio to send a message to my brother so that he could watch mom's bank account since the card was stolen. Mom didn't want to bother him, but I figured it would be better to have to say "Nevermind" instead of "Oops." After maybe 45 minutes total, an officer took us outside to talk about how they are trying really hard to get the purse back since she is going back to the US and sometimes figuring this thing out is a big process. As we were talking a guy walked up who works Security and pals with the police and handed mom her purse in a small plastic bag! OH MY GOSH! YOU FOUND IT! Ensued. I had just told mom that the rest of the day after this was done was going to be good experiences... I just meant that I was going to buy lunch! We returned inside to dig through the purse and see what was missing. They had only kept the cash. It was probably 200 soles, which works out to about $75 or so. Not that bad. I mean, it sucks, but without the rest of her stuff, we would have had to replace her DNI (national ID) and have my family wire us money for the rest of her trip! We were lovingly badgered by the police for being in such a dangerous area, but said that we were not alone and my aunt has been coming alone for years! We asked them what kind of thanks or gift we could give them and the chattiest one said "A thanks is enough, ma'am" and shook mom's hand and she said all her million thank yous. Then he shook my hand and said "You could marry me to I could go (to the States)." "Uuuuuuuhhhhhhhh..." was my response. Mom said "She's single!" And I made like I was gonna smack her. He said he was just kidding and he was really married, which "saved me." Hilarity. We were escorted to the corner to get a cab home by the officer I rode to the Comisario with. They had offered to escort us around La Parada for the rest of the day to wherever we wanted to go (awesome!), but we just wanted to go home, have a drink and lie down! I called my aunt (she had continued on when we went to the Commisary) and told her everything was okay. Phew. What a day.Olga said that she was yelling after me "Jaemycita, NO!" when I started running. I heard mom yelling after me, but what else was I supposed to do?! I didn't catch him myself and couldn't have beat up 3 men if I did, but my running and screaming called the attention of people and authorities and we did recover the purse. Olga bought us some special yummies for us to share when we got back to her place and bought me a gift of some little lucky seeds "for my bravery." She said that this served as a warning to her and that she won't go there alone anymore. Prices there have risen 100% and so thieves are thieving more to make up for it. My mom's neck is a little hurt from the pull - which pulled open a metal buckle one the purse, but it was actually really lucky considering the possibilities. Everything turned out alright.What an adventure.  Who has more fun than me?
