     Toward the end of last week, the blogosphere was active with important blog entries warranting commentary. From Christians vs. atheists over at Rebecca Luella Millers A Christian Worldview of Fiction (http://rebeccaluellamiller.wordpress.com/2008/11/11/the-atheist-box/#comments) to Karen Balls, author and head fiction lady at Broadman and Holman Publishing, series (http://karenball.blogspot.com/2008/11/who-are-you-pt-2_13.html)on identifying and defining Christian fiction which was a springboard for author Cara Putmans blog post on the same topic (http://carasmusings.blogspot.com/ ), to Amys entry discussing reviews on Saturday (http://www.myfriendamysblog.com/2008/11/faith-n-fiction-saturday-reviewing.html#comments), its been a very interesting few days. If you have the time, I would urge you to participate in these particular posts because your comments would be welcome and even important.   Regarding Beckys post, I have yet to read a post by an atheist who isnt up front in attack mode while being condescending to us stupid, delusional, ignorant Christians. Becky Miller and Mike Duran in the past on his blog Decompose have demonstrated time and time again how patience is a virtue and diplomacy is an art form. Not so with me. I have little patience with arrogance no matter whos demonstrating it. Becky and Mike always show respect and intelligence in discussing the conflicting POVs but rarely receive it in return for their efforts. If debates attract you, go add your two cents worth.  Since Karen Ball is a respected professional in Christian publishing, having literally just about done it all in the biz, her interest in hearing what you have to say as Christian writers and readers is noteworthy. This is your moment to expound on all things CBAimpressions, dislikes, desires. Shes doing a series of posts, and each one allows those of us who participate in any part of Christian fiction to have a voice. I urge you to leave your comments if you havent already. Same things going on over at Caras blog.   Amy brings up important points regarding those of us whove stuck our necks out with negative reviews of our fellow Christian authors books. The common thread is no one enjoys it. However, the consensus of contributors to this discussion seems to feel that honesty outweighs the alternative of glossing over what the book lacks for them.   Over at The Masters Artist, Christopher Fisher has intended to apply his skills to reviewing a few Christian novels but has been thwarted from his hefty schedule by constant pain and impending back surgery. But he, too, brings some major considerations to the table of discussion (http://aratus.typepad.com/tma/2008/11/so-last-time-we-talked-briefly-aboutliterary-criticism-and-to-get-the-ball-rolling-iprovided-a-linktowhat-i-think-is-apretty.html#comments).   Ive told you before I dont consider my reviews anything but my opinion of a book Ive read. I only look at what either intrigues me or causes me to dislike the book. I try to be careful because if Im reading the book, its already been professionally published. I cant claim that accomplishment for either of my two self-published novels nor the five others which lie in stasis.    If you have the opportunity, take the time to leave some comments on these various issues. Your opinion is valuable and just might make a difference to someone.  Lord, thank you for hearts which are turned to you for instruction, those who value your response above all others, who desire to please you first. Help us all to keep you in the forefront of our words and actions. In the Name of Jesus, Amen.      
