After a fantastic day at Barclays Open on Saturday, I dragged my dad to come along with me on Sunday. I wanted him to experience the excitement of watching the game live and not infront of the telly.Since I had distributed all my passes, I'd have to pay for my dad's entry. I offered, but he was faster at drawing that S$50 from his wallet at the ticket sales booth.Father and daughter were there, just in time to watch Jeev Milkha Singh,      Padraig Harrington and Charlie WI tee off from the 1st hole. Next were Ernie Els, Thomas Bjorn and Simon Dyson. And we waited for Chapchai Nirat, Phil Mickelson and our very own Lam Chih Bing to tee off before making our way to the next hole.P Harrington and JM Singh walking towards their golf balls after teeing off.Ernie ElsNirat was playing a great game for the first 6 holes.His drives were long and powerful. Perhaps it was the heat, he kinda lost it, together with Lam and Phil.Chapchai NiratPhil MickelsonPhil, Nirat and Lam and their caddies.Lam struggled today. Although he had a few boogies, the crowd still loved him. Applause was given when he completed his 18th hole. One of the loudest cheer was for him!My dad and the beer I bought him.Lunch at Nogawa @ Sentosa Golf Club HouseToday, the sun was out in full force. I actually finished a bottle of water by the time I arrived at the 3rd hole. I was so warm and sweaty. It wasn't even funny.When we were done with the 9th hole, I told my dad I needed a drink badly. I went straight to the Harry's tent and bought us 2 ice cold Tiger beer and 1 bottle of 100 Plus.I brought my dad to Nogawa for lunch. It was rare for us to be spending time like that, so I thought it would be nice to buy him a good japanese lunch. Was surprised to see chef Kelvin from Le Meridien outlet there. We chatted for abit.After lunch, my dad suggested we continue watching the game. We parked ourselves strategically near the 18th hole and watched the last few pros finished the game.It was a fun day for me. I hope my dad enjoyed it as much!Oh, but now, I'm brown in colour - got 2 shades darker. My cheeks and nose are pink in colour. Haha! I suspect I'll be feeling the burning pain tomorrow. Oh no!Note: In case you were wondering, I switched back to my SE K800i for today in order to get better shots. BB Bold's camera cannot make it!
