More on DD  Market Activity  DuPont E.I. DE Nemours &amp; Company  DD  Corning Incorporated  GLW  The Hershey Company  HSY  Stocks in New York held steady slightly up for the day, with tech and financials at the forefront late Tuesday, after a mix of earnings and record-low economic data.  Despite depressing consumer confidence and housing price data, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 58.62 points, or 0.7%, to 8174.65, and the S&amp;P 500 gained 9.16 points, or 1.1%, to 847. The Nasdaq tacked on 15.44 points, or 1%, to 1506 in the session.  Financials were again at the forefront of the Dow's gainers, with an American Express(AXP Quote - Cramer on AXP - Stock Picks) earnings beat pushing it beyond large increases by Citi(C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) and Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks), while Netflix's (NFLX Quote - Cramer on NFLX - Stock Picks) 16% post-earnings rise aided the Nasdaq.  Investors also found upside in quarterly results from the likes of Tellabs (TLAB Quote - Cramer on TLAB - Stock Picks), U.S. Steel (X Quote - Cramer on X - Stock Picks), Hershey(HSY Quote - Cramer on HSY - Stock Picks), and Bristol Myers Squibb(BMY Quote - Cramer on BMY - Stock Picks).  On the downside, Verizon(VZ Quote - Cramer on VZ - Stock Picks) shares were falling some 5% after it reported earnings that were in-line-with to slightly less than expectations.  Add to that DuPont's (DD Quote - Cramer on DD - Stock Picks) weakness, plus Valero (VLO Quote - Cramer on VLO - Stock Picks) and Wall Street is reminded of the dire state of the economy.  In Valero's case, CEO Bill Klesse said Tuesday that due to the economic uncertainty, the company is 'severely reducing' its estimate for full-year 2009 capital spending, and could shutter refineries that it no longer wants to own if it is unable to them sell in the current economic downturn.  Meanwhile, the string of layoffs continued as Corning (GLW Quote - Cramer on GLW - Stock Picks) and Texas Instruments said they would cut more than 3,000 employees apiece, and The Wall Street Journal reported that IBM (IBM Quote - Cramer on IBM - Stock Picks) also sent layoff notices to more than 2,800 people in the U.S. last week.  
