Bank stocks were among the biggest gainers today after $190 billion was erased from the Australian stock market last week.The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index jumped as much as 6.1pc, or 241.6 points, to 4202.3 at the opening. But in afternoon trading, the index was at 4100.3 points, a rise of 139.6 points, or 3.5pc for the day, reclaiming less than half of Friday's 8.2pc rout.The Australian dollar leapt, gaining more than 4pc, or almost 3 US cents to 68.07 US cents before easing in early afternoon trading to US 65.75c. Against Japan's currency, it advanced 3.7 yen, or 5.7pc, to buy 68.80 yen, and traded recently at 65.55.The rallies may be fleeting, however, given the historic levels of volatility jolting markets and on-going worries about how much economies will be hit by the financial turmoil, said research manager David Spry of F.W. Holst &amp;amp; Co. 'The issues arising from the banking crisis are just not going to go away in the short term,' Mr Spry said. 'It's the aftershocks that are really hard to measure. No one really knows how this will transpire.' Prime Minister Kevin Rudd yesterday announced that all deposits in Australian financial institutions would be guaranteed for three years. The government also doubled to $8 billion the funds available to improve liquidity in financial markets.Mr Rudd said the guarantee is aimed at part in ensuring Australian banks would not be at a disadvantage if overseas rivals got government backing and capital injections, as is planned in Europe and elsewhere. European leaders overnight unveiled a combined effort to restore market confidence.Almost all sectors of the market were trading higher, with the financials leading the way, gaining about 7.8pc overall until they eased in the afternoon. 'The banks are definitely leading this market higher and it's all in reaction to the guarantee plans that have been announced by the federal government,' EL&amp;amp;C Baillieu director Richard Morrow said.Banking stocks were favourites, with ANZ Bank up 7.6pc, or $1.16, to $16.46 in afternoon trading.The Commonwealth Bank was up 4.3pc, or $1.70, to $41.25, NAB was up 7.2pc, or $1.50, to $22.30 and Westpac rose 6.7pc, or $1.35, to $21.54.Economic figures out today, though, underscore the fragility of domestic demand.Jobs advertised online and in newspapers fell 1.4pc in September, for the fifth consecutive month, according to the ANZ Bank. 'Heightened financial market volatility, falls in global equity and commodity prices, and uncertainty over the global economic outlook have intensified over the past month,' ANZ economist Warren Hogan said in a release. 'ANZ has revised forecasts for unemployment in Australia and now expects the unemployment rate to rise to around 5.75pc over the second half of 2009.' Official unemployment figures out last week showed the largest number of full-time job losses in more than two years, with the jobless rate rising to 4.3pc.With such economic gloom spreading, analysts cautioned that the morning's strong rallies may fizzle. 'There's a good chance it will head down again,' said James Drohan, private client adviser, at Ord Minnett. 'I don't think there has been enough definitive action by global leaders to give investors the confidence that they are looking for.' Mr Drohan pointed to falling commodities prices as evidence of the negative view that has pervaded markets.As investors look beyond the flurry of rescue packages and deposit guarantees, they will have to take into account the impact of much slower growth on companies' profits, analysts said. 'The current debacle is going to drive the global economy into recession,' said TD Securities global strategist Stephen Koukoulas in a note to clients over the weekend.The pace of banking activity is set to slow as the rescues devised hashed out by governments start to take financial institutions under their control.The International Monetary Fund already cut its 2009 global growth forecast to 3pc, the lowest in seven years, down from a 3.9pc expectation in July.Weaker lending will take the edge off economic expansion by making financing for businesses harder to attain. With companies unable to take out the loans needed to fund their plans, investors will begin to see smaller returns. 
