By Gillian Bullock, ninemsn Money October 2008The Aussie dollar has suffered a 30 per cent slump since its peak of US98c in June this year and many market watchers are reluctant to predict what will happen next.There are a number of factors at work putting pressure on our dollar, not least growing demand for the US dollar which means most other world currencies are getting hammered.It seems madness that the US dollar is in such demand when its economy is heading for recession and it is running a $500 billion deficit that is likely to double. But nevertheless it is seen as a safe haven.Brendan Rynne, chief economist at KPMG, says the flight of currency back to the US has a corresponding effect of weaker demand for other commodities.  There is demand for the US dollar (from the US) for their own purposes, says Rynne. And getting the US dollar back into the US is an overriding factor. Saul Eslake, chief economist at ANZ Bank says banks around the world are hoarding the US currency and dont want to lend. As a result non-US-dollar based countries are having to pay more for the US currency consequently it is moving up in value. But the US domestic demand for its currency is only part of the equation. Another key factor at work is that the Aussie dollar is viewed as a commodity currency, particularly given that 60 per cent of our exports are commodities. For its sins it is one of the most freely floated exchange rates in the world. The nexus with commodities is reflected in its fellow commodity currency the Canadian dollar which has dropped by 20 per cent against the greenback. As a commodity currency, the Aussie dollar is a global risk barometer. When there is appetite for risk it rises and vice versa. The worldwide recession, the expected downturn in demand for commodities and the recent falls in commodity prices have combined to put a serious dampener on the appetite for risk. Add to that the financial meltdown and its not surprising the Aussie is taking a battering. Its not all bad news however. A lower Aussie dollar is good for the farmers, the mining industry and tourism. And those investors with US investments are better off. While the US sharemarket has dropped a third in US dollar terms it is only down 15 per cent in Australian dollar terms.And for many the dollar was overvalued when it was close to parity with the greenback.At US98c it was very expensive, says Andrew Pease, investment strategist Australasia at Russell investments. The only real measure of the dollar is purchasing power parity. Thats where you work out a bunch of stuff in the US and Australia and then what exchange rate you would need for it to cost the same in both countries and US70c is the right level for Australia over time. So when it was US98c it was more expensive than it was cheap when it was US48c back in 2001. So where is the Aussie dollar heading? Thats probably anyones guess but US70c does seem to be in the general ballpark. Of course if you have already booked your overseas holiday when you thought you were going to enjoy parity with the US dollar, then theres not much you can do. Perhaps you should have locked in your foreign currency when the dollar was up there but who was to know it would freefall like it has? The only solace you can take is that at least it is not US48c although the way it is currently freefalling, maybe you should be locking in your US dollars now. 
