WELLINGTON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar was firm on Thursday as expectations rose that an amended $700 billion financial bailout plan will be put into effect after it was approved by the U.S. Senate. The kiwi, which had been dumped earlier in the week along with other high-yield currencies, remained in a tight range as investors were buoyed by progress on the rescue package. 'The passage of this bill, which will shore up confidence in financial markets, will be extremely positive in terms of those risks, but at the same time it's important to realise there is still that macro underlying theme of weakness,' said Shamubeel Eaqub, investment research director at Goldman Sachs JBWere. The U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passed a revised bailout package, but there remained uncertainty whether it would be passed by the House of Representatives, which rejected the original plan on Monday triggering a collapse in share prices around the world. At 0430 GMT the kiwi was at $0.6734/44 compared with $0.6699/05 in late local trade on Wednesday. The U.S. dollar climbed to a near one-year high against a basket of currencies, although it trimmed its gains as investors were still cautious. The kiwi was expected to remain driven by broader market themes of risk aversion and the direction of the U.S. dollar. Near term support for the NZ dollar was seen around $0.6670/80 with $0.6760 likely to cap any rise. The currency was unmoved by the latest ANZ Bank commodity price index for September, which showed the biggest monthly fall in 21 years of 4.9 percent, driven by further declines in world dairy prices. The fall was partly offset by a weaker currency. [nWEL222846] NZ bonds gained a bid tone after the passage of the U.S. rescue package, with yields, which move inversely to prices, shedding up to five basis points. The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond closed unchanged from the previous session at 5.78 percent. (Reporting by Gyles Beckford).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
