LONDON, Oct 1 (Reuters) - Commodity markets from gold to sugar rose on Wednesday as investors waited for a vote on a revised U.S. $700 billion rescue plan that lawmakers hope will unblock the log-jammed financial sector.The U.S. Senate will vote on the revised government bailout plan later on Wednesday. 'The $700 billion bailout is going to happen in some form ... and whereas financial securities are not the place to be -- commodities fundamentally are a great buy,' said Mark Mathias, chief executive at London-based Quantum Asset Management.The attempted rescue of the U.S. economy comes after months of financial turmoil, triggered by the slump in the housing market in the United States.Despite expectations of difficult months ahead for commodities, prices longer term will be supported, particularly for gold, often used by investors as a hedge against inflation and financial turbulence. 'Short term gold is a good buy -- but long term it's a must have,' Quantum's Mathias said.Gold gained 0.8 percent to $877.70 an ounce at 0958 GMT versus $869.95.Gold is expected to gain from the package, which will add to the U.S. budget deficit, aggravate inflationary pressures and ultimately weaken the dollar. 'The dollar is going to be a much weaker currency,' Mathias said, pointing to 'a monstrous amount of debt'. He said the only way the U.S. would be able to pay off the debt accrued would be if inflation erodes its value.The SPDR Gold Trust said its holdings rose 4.2 percent on Wednesday to a record 755.26 tonnes,from 724.63 tonnes as of Sept. 30..  U.S. light crude for November delivery rose to $100.85 a barrel, after rising $4.27 higher to settle at $100.64 on Tuesday in a relief rally. 'The world is facing an energy crisis and that is not going away because of a credit crunch ... emerging markets are going to continue to eat energy at a voracious rate,' Mathias said, referring to his bullish long-term view over the next 5 years.Oil's rebound comes after its steep tumble on Monday, when it dropped $10.52 in the second-biggest fall since April 23, 2003, as fear gripped financial markets after U.S. lawmakers rejected the bailout. 'Prices over the coming months look vulnerable to further weakness, as sentiment continues to plummet on a weakening demand backdrop,' said Mark Pervan, a resource analyst at Australia &amp;amp; New Zealand (ANZ) bank based in Melbourne.Oil has dropped from a record high $147.27 reached in July on signs that high energy prices and the financial crisis have cut into crude demand in top energy consumer the United States. At the same time investors -- who had rushed into commodities earlier this year as a hedge against inflation and the weak dollar -- sold their holdings.London Metal Exchange copper rose 2.7 percent to a high of $6,530 a tonne in earlier, before trading at $6,370.On Tuesday, prices fell to $6,170, their lowest since March 2007. Other metals also stabilised after steep falls. 'We see a bounce after the turmoil this week as we await the approval of the bailout plan,' Calyon analyst Robin Bhar said. 'If it passes we should expect a relief rally...But I don't think such a rally is going to be sustained,' he added. Coffee and sugar prices edged higher, boosted by a soft dollar, with the U.S. currency easing after a sharp surge on Tuesday. Coffee and sugar prices have dropped during the crisis as funds liquidated long positions.March raw sugar on ICE rose one percent to 13.80 cents a pound, still 13 percent below its contract high of 15.85 cents set in late August. December arabica coffee on ICE was up 0.7 percent at $1.3115 per pound.(Additional reporting by Nigel Hunt, Humeyra Pamuk and Nick Trevethan in Singapore, editing by Michael Roddy) Keywords: MARKETS COMMODITIES tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com jlwCOPYRIGHT
