SYDNEY (AFP) - Australian share prices rebounded almost five percent by noon Monday after the government guaranteed bank deposits following a breathtaking stocks plunge last week. The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 was up 191.1 points, or 4.8 percent, to 4,153.8, while the broader All Ordinaries surged 178.3 points to 4,117.8 with financials and mining shares leading Asia-Pacific's second largest market upwards. Banking shares opened sharply higher following Sunday's announcement by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd that the government would guarantee deposits held in Australian financial institutions for the next three years. The guarantee has boosted confidence but it is probably not enough to ensure a lasting change in market direction, ABN Amro Morgan private client adviser Bill Bishop said. 'They've demonstrated they're fair dinkum about this. This is the first really solid move for the market to get its teeth into and it's a wonderful bounce to give people a bit of confidence,' he said. The optimistic start followed last week's horror show on the stock market, which closed with the largest one-day pounding of share prices in 21 years. The Australian market shed 8.3 percent or more than 106 billion dollars (70.8 billion US) in value Friday, pushing losses for the week to a mammoth 230 billion dollars as the global financial crisis struck markets across the world. The government's intervention on Sunday, which was matched by a similar move in New Zealand, signalled a bid to stem the global tide of panic that has been battering local markets. Rudd also guaranteed the borrowings of Australian banks in international credit markets and doubled to eight billion dollars a scheme to purchase residential mortgage-backed securities to shore up the mortgage market. The move came amid a flurry of meetings between leaders of the world's major economies aimed at stabilising the turmoil that is threatening to throw the world into a deep recession. Australian banks led the rise, with the Commonwealth Bank up 6.2 percent to 42.01 dollars, National Australia Bank rising 8.4 percent to 22.55 dollars and ANZ Banking Group 8.5 percent higher at 16.60 dollars. Westpac gained 7.8 percent to 21.76 dollars while its takeover target St George Bank, the country's fifth largest bank, rose 9.4 percent to 27.55 dollars.
