MELBOURNE, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Australian shares rallied 5.5 percent on Monday, clawing back some of last week's 16 percent loss, with the top banks lifted after the government extended a blanket guarantee to all bank deposits. Australia and New Zealand Banking Group jumped 9.5 percent on the guarantee. National Australia Bank was up 9.1 percent and Commonwealth Bank of Australia 6.2 percent. Embattled investment bank Babcock and Brown shot up as much as 39.6 percent to A$1.41 while top miner BHP Billiton (News)  gained 6.5 percent to A$29.53. 'The market was looking oversold so it was ripe for a bounce, it just needed a bit of good news,' said David Cassidy, chief equities strategist at UBS. 'The banks are rallying very strongly this morning and the credit markets are also taking the news very well. The implicit government backstop is enforcing trust,' he said. Australia's benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index rose 216.6 points to 4,177.3 points from its close on Friday, when it suffered its heaviest one-day fall since the 1987 market crash with a loss of 8.3 percent. European leaders on Sunday further agreed to provide capital, insure or directly buy into new bank debt issues, in a move that may inject cash into the region, easing risk aversion and helping boost demand for global equities. That followed a weekend meetings in Washington with finance ministers and central bankers from the world's major economies to discuss ways to alleviate jammed credit markets and prop up the global economy. 'It looks like you're getting an increasingly coordinated global response in regards to the implicit government guarantees behind the various banking systems around the world. It's what the market was looking for,' said Cassidy. 'The banks are the focus today. The resources are bouncing quite nicely as well which is encouraging,' he said. New Zealand's benchmark NZX-50 index was up 1.6 percent at 2,849.28. STOCKS ON THE MOVE * Shares in financial group Suncorp-Metway Ltd rose 5.6 percent to A$9.79 after it said it was still considering its options on a possible sale of its banking and wealth management unit and would have talks with various parties in coming days. [nSYU005281] 0001 GMT * Valad Property Group recouped more than half its losses from last week, soaring as much as 87 percent after it said it was not in breach of any banking covenants and had no major debt expiring until 2009. Its net tangible asset backing stood at A$0.95, it said. The shares last traded up 51 percent at A$0.125. The comments came after Valad's shares plunged 75 percent over Thursday and Friday last week, after it said receivers had been appointed to three construction projects managed by Petrac, a customer of Valad Capital Services. 2352 GMT * CSL Ltd. stock lagged the market with a 0.4 percent gain to A$36.80. United States regulators were considering CSL's proposed takeover of Talecris Biotherapeutics over the weekend, with the Australian suitor expected to provide an update on the $3.1 billion deal today. 0001 GMT (Reporting by Miranda Maxwell).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
