THE Reserve Bank board meets today amid deepening market pessimism about the health of the global economy, which is battering Australia's sharemarket and currency.The sharemarket sunk to its lowest point in three years yesterday, following Wall Street's 1.5 per cent fall on Friday night in the wake of the US financial rescue package being passed by Congress. The S&amp;amp;P ASX 200 lost 155 points, or 3.3 per cent, to 4540.8 in a day of light trading because of public holidays in several states.Asian markets suffered a similar fate, with Tokyo's Nikkei-225 index losing 4.25 per cent and the Seoul market down 4.3 per cent.A rush to safety in currency markets also dragged the Australian dollar to a two-year low of US74.97c and a four year low against the yen of 77.47. The dollar has fallen almost 24 per cent against the greenback from its mid-July peak of US98.49c and has lost more than 8 per cent in the past week alone.Meanwhile, interbank funding costs in US credit markets last week soared to their highest point in decades, despite the $US700 billion bail-out package.Markets expect the Reserve Bank today to respond to the deteriorating global backdrop by cutting official interest rates from 7 per cent to 6.5 per cent, although banks are likely to absorb some of the expected cut to prop up their margins.An interest rate cut should stimulate the economy's long-term growth, but analysts said it would not quell the collapse in lending market confidence. Nor can lower interest rates offset sagging global growth.A senior economist at ANZ Bank, Katie Dean, said it had dawned on investors that the bail-out was not a silver bullet for the faltering US economy. 'It's probably going to be an extended downturn in the US, given that access to credit remains quite constrained,' Ms Dean said. Funding pressures and a string of bank bail-outs in Europe are also dampening the world economic outlook - a warning sign for Australian exporters. 'Demand for commodities such as oil and base metals will ease over the next few months, potentially quite drastically, and that's hitting our mining stocks,' Ms Dean said. BHP fell 2 per cent, or 63c to $29.79, its lowest since May last year. Rio Tinto lost 5 per cent, or $4.43, to $84.48.The manager of the listed Australian Leaders Fund, Justin Braitling, said many investors were lowering their commodity forecasts in response to a longer than expected post-Olympics slowdown in China. 'The commentary on China continues to suggest that the period of soft activity will continue well into next year, and that's not factored into the resource stocks,' Mr Braitling said. The Australian dollar is the other casualty of global growth fears with speculators ditching currencies of smaller countries for currencies of larger economies.
