 The U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) fell 129.80 points, or 2.4%, to finish at 5,320.40, in line with losses across the rest of Europe and a negative tone on Wall Street.  U.S. stocks opened negative Tuesday, extending steep losses made at the start of the week when financial-sector woes came back to the fore amid worries about more losses at Lehman Brothers (LEH:LEHNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) and of a bail-out for mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Negative sentiment towards the financial sector spread to Asia and then to Europe on Tuesday. 'There isn't a direct read-across [for the European financial sector] but it acts as a flash point and reminds everyone that there is still a problem,' said Mike Lenhoff, strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities. Brokers also made some changes to their ratings. Shares of Barclays (BCS:BCSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:BARC: news, chart, profile) fell 5.4% after a downgrade at Exane BNP, while shares of HBOS (UK:HBOS: news, chart, profile) lost 7.4% after a downgrade to add, from buy, by WestLB. The analysts at WestLB said that they believe there's a risk of a material deterioration in the U.K. economic outlook. Property developers were also under pressure, with shares of Hammerson (UK:HMSO: news, chart, profile) down 6.6%, and shares of British Land (UK:BLND: news, chart, profile) down 6%. Banks and property developers had been at the forefront of the latest recovery in equity markets after losing a lot of ground earlier in the year. Since mid-July, shares in Barclays have risen about 25%, while Hammerson shares have climbed around 6%, even after factoring in Tuesday's losses. Both have outperformed the FTSE 100 index, which is currently showing a gain of roughly 4% since July 16. BG Group up Still, there were a few bright spots, mainly in the more defensive areas of the market. Shares of utility Scottish &amp;amp; Southern Energy (UK:SSE: news, chart, profile) climbed 1%. Shares in clothing chain Next (UK:NXT : news, chart, profile) traded down 1.9% in the top index, a better performance than the overall market. Goldman Sachs took a brighter view toward several European retailers, with the broker seeing acquisition candidates in Next and others. It upgraded Next to conviction buy from neutral, Kesa (UK:KESA: news, chart, profile) to buy from sell and DSG International (UK:DSGI: news, chart, profile) to neutral from sell. Kesa shares lost 0.9%, while DSG shares also declined 5.3%. Both companies trade in the FTSE 250 index (UK:FTSE250: news, chart, profile) , which lost 256.40 points, or 2.8%, to close at 8,867.60. J.P. Morgan cautious on pubs Meanwhile, J.P. Morgan said it's cautious on pubs into 2009 but is warming to managed pub operators which it believes have better long-term prospects. It downgraded Greene King (UK:GNK: news, chart, profile) to neutral from overweight, Marstons (UK:MARS: news, chart, profile) to underweight from neutral, and Punch Taverns (UK:PUB: news, chart, profile) to neutral from overweight. However, it upgraded J.D. Wetherspoon (UK:JDW: news, chart, profile) to overweight from neutral, Mitchells &amp;amp; Butler (UK:MAB: news, chart, profile) to neutral from underweight, and the Restaurant Group (UK:RTN: news, chart, profile) to overweight from neutral. Greene King shares fell 5.7%, Marstons shares dropped 5.6%, and Punch Taverns fell 8.9%. Similarly, Wetherspoon shares lost 3.9%, Mitchells and Butler shares fell 5.9% and the Restaurant Group lost 2%. LONDON (MarketWatch) -- U.K. shares closed sharply lower Tuesday, with all but a handful of companies stuck in the red, led down by property companies and bank shares.
