 LONDON (Reuters) - The leading share index was little changed by midday on Friday, as gains in the banking sector after Royal Bank of Scotlands results were offset by losses in the miners and index-heavyweight Vodafone .RBS was one of the top gainers on the FTSE 100  after the company reported one of the largest losses in corporate history, but the loss was not as large as many in the market had feared, which sent the stock up 3 percent.At 11:43 a.m. the FTSE 100 was down 7.4 points, or 0.1 percent at 5,470.9 after falling 0.2 percent on Thursday, but was on track for a 2 percent gain for the week.The index is now down about 15 percent this year.RBS posted a first-half loss of 691 million pounds -- one of the biggest losses in corporate history, but smaller than expected -- after taking a 5.9 billion writedown on the value of risky assets. 'We continue to get news out of the banks that is perhaps not as terrible as some had feared, although you can look at it two ways. One way is the headline results are not as bad, but the outlooks given are really quite gloomy,' said Investec strategist Roger Cursley. 'On a different day, the market could have put a different spin on these results, so in a sense were trying to accentuate the positives a bit today,' .....continued belowstartsends he said. A Reuters poll of analysts gave an average forecast of a 1.2 billion pound loss for RBS.Other banks to feature among FTSE 100 gainers included HSBC , which was the largest individual positive weight on the index, rising 1 percent, while Standard Chartered was up 1 percent and HBOS was up 0.2 percent. 'It was widely expected there would be a loss for RBS, although it is significantly less than some analysts were predicting,' said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. 'It is one of those strange situations, and we saw it with Barclays yesterday and is rather a sign of the times, that while the figures are bad theyre not as bad as they could have been.' 'That sort of perverse logic is the reason the shares have lifted,' Hunter added. 'If you had to scratch for a positive, youd say its one more set of credit writedowns out of the way which must get us somewhere nearer to potentially turning the corner.' In other financials, asset manager Schroders was 1.5 percent lower after it said pretax profit in the first half of the year fell to 135.7 million pounds from 185.6 million pounds a year ago. Thursdays decision by the Bank of England to leave benchmark rates at 5 percent reinforced the view among investors that the central bank is unlikely to tighten monetary policy again this year.Although the economy is slowing, the prospect of steady policy is potentially supportive for interest-rate sensitive sectors such as financials and property stocks.However, with concern about slowing U.S. consumer spending after a cautious sales forecast for world number one retailer Wal-Mart on Thursday and a disappointing update from top insurer AIG , the mood in financial markets was wary.LONDON (Reuters) - The leading share index was little changed by midday on Friday, as gains in the banking sector after Royal Bank of Scotlands results were offset by losses in the miners and index-heavyweight Vodafone .RBS was one of the top gainers on the FTSE 100  after the company reported one of the largest losses in corporate history, but the loss was not as large as many in the market had feared, which sent the stock up 3 percent.At 11:43 a.m. the FTSE 100 was down 7.4 points, or 0.1 percent at 5,470.9 after falling 0.2 percent on Thursday, but was on track for a 2 percent gain for the week.The index is now down about 15 percent this year.RBS posted a first-half loss of 691 million pounds -- one of the biggest losses in corporate history, but smaller than expected -- after taking a 5.9 billion writedown on the value of risky assets. 'We continue to get news out of the banks that is perhaps not as terrible as some had feared, although you can look at it two ways. One way is the headline results are not as bad, but the outlooks given are really quite gloomy,' said Investec strategist Roger Cursley. 'On a different day, the market could have put a different spin on these results, so in a sense were trying to accentuate the positives a bit today,' he said. A Reuters poll of analysts gave an average forecast of a 1.2 billion pound loss for RBS.Other banks to feature among FTSE 100 gainers included HSBC , which was the largest individual positive weight on the index, rising 1 percent, while Standard Chartered was up 1 percent and HBOS was up 0.2 percent. 'It was widely expected there would be a loss for RBS, although it is significantly less than some analysts were predicting,' said Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. 'It is one of those strange situations, and we saw it with Barclays yesterday and is rather a sign of the times, that while the figures are bad theyre not as bad as they could have been.' 'That sort of perverse logic is the reason the shares have lifted,' Hunter added. 'If you had to scratch for a positive, youd say its one more set of credit writedowns out of the way which must get us somewhere nearer to potentially turning the corner.' In other financials, asset manager Schroders was 1.5 percent lower after it said pretax profit in the first half of the year fell to 135.7 million pounds from 185.6 million pounds a year ago. Thursdays decision by the Bank of England to leave benchmark rates at 5 percent reinforced the view among investors that the central bank is unlikely to tighten monetary policy again this year.Although the economy is slowing, the prospect of steady policy is potentially supportive for interest-rate sensitive sectors such as financials and property stocks.However, with concern about slowing U.S. consumer spending after a cautious sales forecast for world number one retailer Wal-Mart on Thursday and a disappointing update from top insurer AIG , the mood in financial markets was wary.Heavyweight Vodafone lost 1.7 percent after Goldman Sachs cut its rating to 'neutral' and took the mobile phone group off its 'conviction buy' list of preferred stocks.Commodity stocks came under pressure, but gas producer BG Group bucked the trend to add 0.6 percent after it said it had made a material new oil discovery off the coast of Brazil.But with U.S. crude prices falling 2 percent, BP and Shell lost 1.6 and 1.4 respectively. Lonmin was up 0.4 percent after the Financial Times said that M&amp;amp;G, the biggest shareholder in the London-based platinum producer, had rebuffed Xstratas hostile offer. Xstrata shares fell 1.9 percent. British Airways advanced 2.6 percent after the Daily Mail said the airline is planning to make an application early next week to the U.S. Department of Transport that could allow it to forge closer links with American Airlines .(Additional reporting by Michael Taylor; Editing by Greg Mahlich)
