Nice post, should bring about a decent discussion. For what it is worth here is my experience.  I row on the water and my winter training programme is therefore geared towards summer racing. It is almost exclusively volume rowing (rows of between 60 and 90 minutes) that is rate restricted (19) at this time of year. The intensity is largely down to the individual, but is meant to be UT2. I believe you get more benefit from rowing harder during these rows, but the trick is rowing hard enough to get maximum benefit from the session without compromising the next. The crux of the argument for long rows, as I understand it, is that long rows of an hour or more stimulate the development of more mitochondria in the muscles, meaning the muscles can work longer and harder before becoming anaerobic. It therefore seems sensible that as a 2k is mostly aerobic that a better aerobic base will make you faster. The tapering then gives you better lactate tolerance for the last few hundred metres when everything has gone anaerobic. Now obviously someone who does 10k a day will be very aerobically fit. What I dont understand is why the longer rows are meant to be that much better for developing aerobic fitness than a 10k. Perhaps JTB could add something here as he knows about all this jazz.    Training intensities. The old saying of listen to your body is a winner here. Use a HRM to show up whether your HR is higher than usual for the same pace. Works for me.  I find, at least where on water rowing is concerned, there is a belief that volume rowing is very important. However I think that much of this belief comes from seeing what the national squad do, which isnt relevant to the majority of club rowers. Having said that, even without specific tapering or interval work my 2k time has continued to drop on the back of long rows. Perhaps this is simply because there is capacity for me to get faster without changing my training programme. There obviously comes a point whereby a change is needed to stimulate progression. Personally, Im just happy to have a training programme to follow, even if there is one that could be better tailored to me, because without it Id be doing 2 x 5k everyday. I enjoy training, but Id rather not have to think about what training to do. Id love to have the discipline to do the Wolverine plan, but as soon as I see the numbers I get a serious dose of CBA (on top of the usual CBA!).  I think the question about weight training depends on your starting point. If you are already strong I dont think there is too much need beyond maintaining what you have. I have found weights have benefited my erg times but I am a lightweight.  Not sure whether that adds anything, but it is my experience.  
