Playa playaaaaaaaaaa...     An the special powers of findin girls with weed? well thats just awsome. Ive only ever found one bird that would smoke weed with me (its fucked round here everyones so up tight)..      Was my mates cousin aswell..      Night i met her was her 16th birthday party (i was 16 too), we got pretty fuckin drunk (had no weed at the time), i brought up the talk of weed an she was like you smoke?      I was like, you first, she said no an then asked me again an i kinda plafully said noo      she playfully said yehh you well do..      I was like fuck it, i might aswell tell her i cba seein someone who doesnt like me smokin anyway..  so i did, an she was like, well i dont smoke it, but if your offerin?      i said i didnt have any..      we got more drunk.      one thing led to another and wahey..      Anyway down to the point     ahah.. an you know you said you didnt wanna piss off your mate, well get this..     Ma mate was MAJORLY hungover an a bit groggy.. still half asleep i suppose everyone had only been asleep for aboutttt 4 hours max..     anyways hes sat an the couch an i walk up behind him, say his name, he turns his head, an i stick ma fingers under his nose an go &amp;amp;quot;Smell your cousin&amp;amp;quot; hahahaha     he was not happy.. anyone else he mighta hit me but from boxing matches in the past he knows i can nock him on his arse lol.. - one punch K.O. haha blood drips everywhere all the way to my kitchen lol.. to be fair though we had been drinkin the night of boxin an he was i bit worse than me..      funny times.. That was a fucking sick party. from what i remember anyways haha   i brought a litre bottle of bombay sapphire an me an two of ma mates cleared the fucker haha     bombay sapphire + all sorts of beer + shitty alcopops + apple sours = Worst hangover of my life and not being able to remember what id done AND not bein able to remember what the girl looked like hahaha an let me tell ya, that is not good cos alll you can think is, i hope i didnt have major fuckin beer goggles on last nihgt haha     D.   
