What is the difference between a depression and a 20 percent reduction in hours of work? We got to thinking about this and began to ask some intriguing questions which, we think, should be pursued. What is a depression?  There is some controversy over the definition of a depression, but it seems authorities generally list these essential features:  A fall in GDP of 10% or more. A fall in GDP for over 3 years. Very high unemployment - over 20% Deflation Asset / credit contraction  Depressions also appear to differ from a more typical recessions of the post-war period by proximate cause. According to the Economist: &#8230;a recent analysis by Saul Eslake, chief economist at ANZ bank, concludes that the difference between a recession and a depression is more than simply one of size or duration. The cause of the downturn also matters. A standard recession usually follows a period of tight monetary policy, but a depression is the result of a bursting asset and credit bubble, a contraction in credit, and a decline in the general price level. In the Great Depression average prices in America fell by one-quarter, and nominal GDP ended up shrinking by almost half. America&#8217;s worst recessions before the second world war were all associated with financial panics and falling prices: in both 1893-94 and 1907-08 real GDP declined by almost 10%; in 1919-21, it fell by 13%. The Great Depression, according to the Economist, was by far the steepest collapse of economic activity in American history - initially sustaining a 30 percent drop - but, surprisingly, not the longest - the record for that is still the 65 month depression of 1873-1879. The cause of a depression as defined by the Economist is interesting in that it is generally thought to begin in the financial sector with a fall in asset prices and credit availability. This diagnosis explains much of Washington&#8217;s preoccupation with propping up failed banks and guaranteeing the value of bonds and securities. Suppose a depression-like event began with the artificial tightening of money supply, as has been the case with recessions after World War II, and the implementation of National Security Council Memorandum 68. Obviously, in such cases, since the cause of the downturn is entirely artificial, it would be misleading to refer to the event as a depression: it is, in fact, a government engineered event as stated in the above article: &#8220;A standard recession usually follows a period of tight monetary policy&#8230;&#8221; But, to take this one step further, suppose this government engineered depression-like event began not with the policy driven tightening of money supply, but with the policy driven reduction of the labor supply, as in, for instance, the reduction of working time by 20 percent - from a five day 40 hour week to a four day 32 hour week. We have been told by policy makers, business and economists that such a reduction would be inflationary, i.e., that it would lead to higher prices, and no improvement in employment, but, there are some logical question which suggest the outcome would not be much different than a depression: deflation of asset prices and the prices of real goods, but without the massive and sustained unemployment of a depression. It would, in other words, pop the credit and asset bubble without throwing millions of working families into the streets. First: A reduction of working time by 20 percent is clearly not much different than 20 percent unemployment except in the source of the event:In both cases the economy experiences a twenty percent reduction in the number of hours of work. In our economy with an estimated 153 million participants in the labor force, a reduction of working time from 40 hours a week to 32 hours a week would mean about 1.2 billion fewer hours of working time per week. The same holds for an economy experiencing 20 percent unemployment. However, that 1.2 billion hours of reduced working time roughly translates into about 30 million people without work. (This crisis has seen the phrase, too big to fail, repeated so often, one would imagine banks grew our food, built our automobiles and homes, and cared for the sick and for dependent children. But, unemployment means destitution for millions of working families, and the labor market is the real institution in this economy which is too big to fail. It would seem then reducing working time, since it insulates more than one hundred million families for loss of jobs and income, is much to be preferred to handing Wall Street bankers capital to pay bonuses.) Second: Although we have no qualification in this area, except our experience investing and day trading, it seems logical that the market value of the total national capital must be in some way related to the hours it is employed during a given period of time: if those hours are reduced, and the national capital is being utilized at, say, only 80 percent of its former rate, we would expect the total fair value of the national capital should fall accordingly - leading to the kind of asset deflation seen in a depression. If there is asset deflation how likely are prices to rise overall? Third: What then happens to credit availability and the value of the existing stock of debt - which must be in some fashion related to the value of the national capital? Would this not lead to Paulson&#8217;s and Bernanke&#8217;s clogged pipelines in the credit market? What would happen to the value of bonds? Again, we are not experts on such things, and our support for shorter working time does not hang on some &#8220;right&#8221; answer, but, it seems probable that any reduction of working hours should lead to a general contraction of credit. The question is, again, given this credit contraction, how could a reduction of working hours be inflationary? Fourth: What effect would a reduction of working time have on US exports if the prices of goods and asset are falling? Shouldn&#8217;t this lead to more affordable American made goods for consumers in other countries as well? And. if so doesn&#8217;t this imply increased demand for labor - additional hiring to meet export demand? Fifth: We do agree with economists on one thing: Reducing hours of work would tend to push up labor costs. But, given a reduction in hours of work, isn&#8217;t this a favorable effect? In a depression companies tend to conserve capital by discharging workers and reducing labor and operating costs, and, this a real difference between depressions and reduced working hours: Shorter working time, while reducing hours of work, would tend to insulate the labor force from a generalized fall in real income. Although working families should experience some fall in nominal wages due to fewer hours of work, would not the deflationary effect on asset and goods prices lead, under certain circumstances, to an actual increase in the real wage? *** These are the questions we have based on our brief experience with the deteriorating economic conditions the global family faces in the present crisis, but we will leave you with one more thought: During all depressions prior to the 1930s the standard operating procedure for government was to balance the budget in line with tax revenues. This has since been replaced with countercyclical policy which has been tested in recessions, but never during a depression. And, there is a significant body of opinion which says it can&#8217;t work. Which is surprising until you recall it was the greatly increased demand by government for war materials and munitions and years of support for a mobilized and militarized labor force, followed by a virtual monopoly on industrials goods production following that war which finally broke the back of the Great Depression. At one point as much as forty percent of the US economy was devoted to the war. If that is the standard for government intervention to support asset and goods prices and economic activity in general, what does it take when, as now is the case, nearly forty percent of the economy is already government spending? 
