A GOLD Coast woman lied about dying of cancer and conned an 89-year-old dementia sufferer into giving her a $500,000 house, a court has been told.Welfare recipient Francesca Jean Marzella, 53, was arrested at Brisbane Airport on Saturday after returning from a European holiday. She faced Southport Magistrate's Court yesterday charged with fraud after she allegedly convinced nursing home patient Marguerite Stewart to sign over the title to her house which she then sold for just $350,000. Magistrate Brian Kilmartin said he was conscious of not pre-judging Marzella, but said the police report read like a tale of 'dishonesty from beginning to end'. Police alleged Marzella told staff at the Gold Coast's Homestead Aged Care she had been friends with Ms Stewart for 24 years before taking her on 'a day trip' to the Runaway Bay Commonwealth Bank to sign over a power of attorney. The pair also met a Justice of the Peace to arrange for ownership of Ms Stewart's house to be transferred due to reasons of 'natural love and affection'. It was not until her great-nephew David Stonely tried to pay bills on Ms Stewart's behalf that he realised what had happened. He later drove past her Hope Island home to find a Brisbane couple were moving in. Many of his great-aunt's possessions had been thrown into an industrial bin in the front yard. By the time police launched an investigation, Marzella was already overseas. Police prosecutor Senior Constable Christine Philp told the court Marzella had been exposed as a serial liar. 'She said she had known the complainant for 24 years but the nursing home log book only showed 12 visits over a two-month period (in all her years in care). They don't know each other at all,' she said. Marzella was also accused by police of 'severe dishonesty' over writing a fake address on her immigration form and telling Customs officials and police she was dying of cancer. The house sale is legal under Queensland law but police hoped Marzella could be forced to repay the $350,000. Marzella was released on $100,000 bail and will reappear in Southport Magistrate's Court, September 26. 
