 Beware the credit crunch! We're all feeling the pinch apparently, er, well, to be honest I haven't really noticed any difference.Food went up in price, then the supermarkets had a little price war and many items (if you're not too fussy about the major brands) are cheaper then they were in the economic 'haven' that was 2007. My weekly shop now costs on average s2 less than this time last year.The price of a pint has risen in a few pubs, but then it rises every year and it's always wildly varied from pub to pub. Anyway, if you're picky about your bar you can still get a pint for a couple of quid. Trade also seems pretty healthy in the boozers, since the smoking ban came in it's been pretty steady from what I've seen.If it wasn't for the incessant warnings of so-called financial experts I'd struggle to know there was an economic down-turn at all. Perhaps the luxury and organic items have shot up in price, but, to be honest that hardly effects the people who are on the breadline anyway.Does the crunch exist at all? Well if it does, somebody has obviously forgotten to tell Barclays' about it as I received a letter only last week inviting me to get a second credit card with an 'amazing' interest rate. My current card with them isn't full so why are they trying to encourage me to fill that one and then get a second one? That's hardly a crunch on my credit.The price of houses is coming down apparently, not that you'd notice looking at the classified ads. London prices are still woefully high and well out of the price range of anyone who would be affected by milk costing an extra 10p. Affordable housing makes me laugh who exactly are they affordable for?As a young professional (in estate agent terms) I am still a long, long way from being able to buy an 'affordable' box room. Unless prices half overnight the only property I'll be able to purchase is a garage and that'll take me about 20 years to pay off.I feel for people this winter who'll have trouble paying utility bills, but blame the gas and electric companies for this. Despite the alleged crunch they are all still making huge profits, which are apparently only 'down' on the astronomical ones of previous years.Those people have my sympathy. People who bought into the property market, buying ex-council houses to do up and sell at a massive profit or rent at extortionate amounts thus pushing London prices way out of the league of your normal family I have no sympathy at all for. I hope house prices continue to fall and then perhaps people will buy houses to actually live in rather than to feed their greed.Perhaps that's not the 'crunch' in action, perhaps Londoners have realised that a tiny studio flat on the edge of zone two just isn't worth s300k.
