HAMBLEN COUNTY, Tenn. (WVLT) -- Hamblen County taxpayers just spent over a million dollars to build onto their jail, but less than eight months later it's already so overcrowded that state inspectors say something has to be done.For decades Hamblen County has been adding jail space in a race to keep up with the growing inmate population.Crime doesn't pay, but taxpayers will have to if they want to add more jail space. Jail isn't supposed to be a pleasant place, but those who've spent any time here will tell you Hamblen County is one of the worst places to do time.Hamblen County Chief Deputy Wayne Mize says, 'Our population is running, on average, probably about fifty over every day.' The chief deputy says that number sometimes climbs to 75 over the limit. The temporary solution is to force some to sleep on the floor.Chief Deputy Mize says, 'Tempers flare. You have fights. The jailers have to deal with those situations every day.' What makes some taxpayers fighting mad is knowing this jail just added a brand new addition in February. Room for 68 new beds costs $1.2 million. Now, the county needs that many more again.Hamblen County resident Will Morrison says, 'Nobody wants to be taxed more than they are right now. Everybody just bought a new insurance company at AIG, so we're tired of buying things right now.' Hamblen County resident David Hampton says, 'There's a lot of vacant buildings around town. They ought to consider renting one of those of leasing out.' The county is considering that idea. The Youth Emergency Shelter is expected to vacate this building next to the jail sometime next year.Chief Deputy Mize says, We've had the Tennessee Corrections Institute tour that building to see if it would be an option for us and they said that every thing inside would have to be gutted and start all over, so I think it's going to be cost prohibitive.' That could mean building again. But overcrowding is not the only problem. Sewage often backs up. The chief says the only way to prevent inmates from clogging sewer lines is to replace 80 toilets in the older part of the jail with new filtered models.Hamblen County says the state inspector gave them until November 7 to come up with a plan to alleviate overcrowding. A committee plans to meet Friday to discuss solutions.In recent years neighbors like Grainger County helped out, but the sheriff there says his relatively new jail is full now.
