  It's not even Halloween, but this latest ride on the Wall Street roller coaster has been simply scary. By Thursday, the market was starting to swing up again from huge losses, but not before area stockbrokers spent days answering nonstop calls from customers worried sick about their life savings. By Friday, U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Ben Bernanke were crafting an even bigger bailout of the poisonous subprime mortgage debt that drove us into this meltdown. This would be the largest government intervention in financial markets since the Great Depression. Keep in mind, huge investment banks were putting a dollar of their money down and borrowing up to $30 or $35 to make profits in the risky-mortgage sector, and their gamble eventually failed. Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual were allowed to fail, but not Goldman Sachs, which Paulson used to head and may be saved by the proposed subprime debt bailout. The rescue of investment bank Bear Stearns and insurance giant AIG, the nationalization of mortgage lenders Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and now the apparent decision to use taxpayer dollars to clean bad-mortgage gambles off corporate balance sheets may all be necessary to prevent a world economic collapse. Paulson and company are, in effect, creating the world's largest hedge fund by moving the bad mortgage debt into the U.S. Treasury. American taxpayers now are truly the investors of last resort. But let's not pretend that these trillion-dollar bailouts won't feed inflation that will erode the earning power of working Americans, perhaps for decades to come. And how about insisting that the country's leaders be honest and estimate how much taxes will have to be raised to pay off these monstrous bailout bills? Even Uncle Sam is reaching the practical end of his ability to use his credit cards to finance federal spending. Horse bill: No voteThe bill that would send horse owners, handlers or veterinarians to federal prison for three years if they send a horse to a foreign slaughterhouse that sells the meat for human consumption got only a 10-minute hearing in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. The House Judiciary Committee did not 'mark up' the bill, and no vote was taken. The bill is sponsored by Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Mich., who chairs the committee, and Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind. Instead, the all-day hearing focused on an immigration bill. The horse slaughter bill may not come up again before Congress is scheduled to adjourn on Sept. 26. However, the ongoing economic crisis may force Congress to come back to Washington, D.C., for a 'lame-duck session' after the November elections. Scams du jourA sharp-eyed Montana-Dakota Utilities customer living on Howard Avenue in Billings got a refund for half of five months of gas bills. Craig Blom, who is on the MDU budget plan, noticed that his bills were rising when they should have been dropped as winter ended. This happened after MDU installed an electronic read transmitter on his gas meter, which allows the employee to read the meter from his truck. His monthly bills from March to July were nearly double those of the previous year. Luckily, Blom and his wife had saved their old paper bills. So he called MDU and disputed his bill. 'Over five months, they charged me a total of $511.40. My new bill was $257.40 and they credited me back $254. That's a big error.' MDU also gave him $11.05 after he asked for some interest. Blom said MDU told him that there are about 500 meters out of 46,000 in the Billings area that need one more programming step so they are give accurate numbers with the ERT technology. 'They know of only two of those meters that have had this problem in Billings, but we are reviewing all the bills on these older meters,' MDU spokesman Mark Hanson said from company headquarters in Bismarck, N.D. A gander at gas pricesHurricane Ike shut down one-fifth of the U.S refinery capacity, and areas relaying on pipelines from the Gulf region still have gas shortages. That's primarily the gas stations in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic states. Crude oil prices have been sliding for two months. However, after Ike and the latest bad economic waves hit, crude rose $6 a barrel and finished above $97 by midweek. Montana drivers paid a low of $3.68 in Hamilton last week for a gallon of regular and highs of $3.99 in Plentywood and $3.89 in Harlowton, according to www.gasbuddy.com. In Wyoming, Wheatland posted the lowest price, $3.25 last week. Sheridan drivers were paying $3.43, and regular cost $3.95 in Buffalo, the state's high price, according to the Web site. Laugh linesPeople seem to read Bibles more as they get older. Are they cramming for their finals and hoping God grades on a curve? Since people aren't likely to write letters to the FBI's 10 Most Wanted candidates, here's a suggestion: Instead of posing pictures and descriptions of the bad players at the Post Office, put their mugs on the stamps so mailmen can look for them when they deliver the mail. One computer tech was heard to describe himself this way: 'I've decided my personality is obsessive-compulsive, but I'm too lazy to work hard at it.'
