You don't have to be very bright to recognize that this country is going to hell in a handbasket. It may, in fact, be there already.  There are certain signs that the alert citizen could notice: empty restaurants, abandoned houses, airlines selling Diet Coke for $2 and people running for president with the claim that it's not their fault and they can do better. I know I could do better, because I know I couldn't do any worse. It is probably not possible to do any worse, which is reassuring in a weird sort of way.You probably consider it an event when your checkbook balances, which is a level (Economics 001) far below where we theoretical economists operate. (Alice hasn't tried to balance our checkbook for 25 years. She figures the bank is probably right, what with computers and all, so she watches Court TV with a clear conscience.)In the old days, old but within my memory, finances were pretty simple. Dad brought home his pay in cash, and Mom apportioned the money into jars for rent, groceries, clothes, insurance and savings. The goal was to run out of jars before running out of money. If not, you had to rob a Ball jar to pay a Mason jar, and you didn't want to do that. Today we have 401(k) plans, insurance of all kinds, pre-paid college plans, time payments for the 60-inch TV sets, bills for cable, for the six cell phones with unlimited texting and for the SUV parked in the garage since the gas station went to cash only. Compared to big-league finance, this is nothing. Take Lehman Brothers, for instance, which the government said it wouldn't because, as big as it is, it isn't big enough to worry about (unlike Merrill Lynch). It started with a single Lehman, who opened a general store in 1844, and wound up as a Wall Street investment house. The place had all sorts of ways to juggle money. It didn't manufacture anything, it didn't invent anything, it just finagled money, keeping a percentage of each finagle. If things went well, the CEO made tons of money (those percentages add up) and if things went badly, the CEO made tons of money. This may not make sense to you, but that's because of your lower level of economic sophistication. As you can see, this didn't create an incentive for hard work. That being the case, the CEO was often seen playing golf on his yacht (it's one really big yacht), leaving the store in the hands of people - I blush to say this - who don't even own yachts. Wouldn't you know it, they made bad choices by assuming that mortgages issued to people who were unable to pay would make really great investments. These financial institutions, some of them so large that their employees could populate a small town, began to collapse. Some of them were purchased by others, at fire-sale prices. The U.S. Treasury Department announced it would not bail out a certain institution, and then three days later reversed that decision on the basis that "it was too big to fail," a popular Wall Street mantra. Remembering that the government did nothing at the outset of the Great Depression, Treasury officials began to recommend doing everything - buying up bad mortgages, bailing out big companies and not-so-big companies, even another round of economic incentive checks. Elections, after all, are just a few weeks away. With uncertainty reigning, the decision to act came perhaps after messengers reminded some influential people that they still had payments pending for that penthouse in Monaco, the one with the attractive blonde in residence. The key here is that some people explained it better than others. Initially, President Bush and other politicians assured us that "the economic fundamentals are strong," a blatant lie. They rephrased that opinion after the happy pills wore off, so we're all on the same page today. The biggest failure to date is AIG, an insurance company so large that its demise could "turn us into a banana republic." It insures everything, including other insurance companies and even investments. If you are a really big investor, you can insure against losing money. The government offered $85 billion in loans (since escalated to $700 billion for the entire industry), despite the fact that the government is broke. With a national debt of $9 trillion and no ability to repay, the U.S. is essentially bankrupt by ordinary standards. They plan to print more money, which didn't work for ancient Rome. Things are getting a bit tight at home, even for us economic experts. We'll start balancing the checkbook again, just in case. We're buying the store brand of cat food for Butch (he'll never know), and I've notified Marie-Claire in Monaco that she has to be out of the apartment by the 30th.Desperate times call for desperate measures, you know. - John R. Agnew is a retired Fort Myers physician. He can be reached through mstephens@news-press.com. Please write Agnew in the subject line. 
