'We're pleased that the court recognizes the tremendous amount of work, skill and determination required to overcome significant obstacles in this complicated case and recover over $7 billion for defrauded investors,' said Patrick Coughlin, chief trial counsel for the firm that ran the litigation, Coughlin Stoia Geller Rudman &amp;amp; Robbins. The $7.2 billion in settlements is the largest ever in U.S. securities litigation. The second-largest was WorldCom's $1.6 billion, according to the Securities Class Action Clearinghouse at Stanford University.Shareholders eligible for a payout must have purchased Enron stock between Sept. 9, 1997 and Dec. 2, 2001, the day the company went bankrupt. Shareholders who bought stock before that time or after bankruptcy are not eligible.Firm spokesman Dan Newman said today that attorneys hope they can make a distribution by the end of the year, 'and the order approving the plan of allocation is a big step toward that goal.' The plan outlines procedures to distribute the settlement proceeds to about 1.5 million individuals and entities, such as pension funds. Investors who bought common stock during the span of eligibility stand to receive an average of $6.79 per share, while those who bought preferred shares stand to get an average of $168.50 per share.The plan generated some opposition, largely from shareholders who bought stock outside the span of eligibility. The lead plaintiff in the litigation, the University of California, argued that while it didn't satisfy everyone, it is fair and reasonable. 'This court agrees,' Harmon wrote in her order approving it.With the largest-ever settlement came the largest-ever request for attorney fees.The firm negotiated the fee with the University of California based on a percentage of money recovered. The $688 million, part of which will be funded by interest on the total settlements, is 9.52 percent of the $7.2 billion.Harmon called the university a 'highly sophisticated investor' that struck a fee agreement aimed at maximizing shareholder recovery, in this case more than 90 percent of the settlements. 'This litigation has been ongoing since the fall of 2001, over six years, and the record attests to a long, difficult fight that justifies honoring the fee agreement's 9.52 percent,' Harmon wrote. The bulk of the settlements, $6.6 billion, came from JP Morgan Chase, Citigroup and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. Smaller amounts came from Bank of America; Lehman Brothers; former Big Five auditing firm Arthur Andersen and its defunct global umbrella organization, Andersen Worldwide; LJM2, a former partnership once run by ex-Enron finance chief Andrew Fastow to conduct deals with Enron; and law firm Kirkland &amp;amp; Ellis. The only individuals to have settled for a collective $168 million were former Enron directors.Facing a bankrupt company when the litigation was filed weeks before Enron failed in 2001, the plaintiffs pursued deep-pocketed banks that did business with Enron. Specifically, plaintiffs said the banks played as major a role in fraud as Enron by crafting and financing dubious deals.While some settled for $2 billion or more each, three others  Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., Barclays and Credit Suisse First Boston  kept fighting. In March last year the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rewarded their tenacity with a ruling that rejected the plaintiffs' theory that the banks were primary players in fraud.That ruling said that at best, the banks aided and abetted fraud as bit players, and as such could be pursued by the Securities and Exchange Commission, but not in private securities litigation.The Supreme Court refused to review the case, so plaintiffs argued to Harmon that the three remaining banks are liable because they were so active in conducting deals with Enron and selling its securities that they had a duty to disclose what they knew about fraudulent practices.Harmon has yet to rule on that argument.Readers are solely responsible for the content of the comments they post here. Comments are subject to the site's  of use and do not necessarily reflect the opinion or approval of the Houston Chronicle. Readers whose comments violate the terms of use may have their comments removed or all of their content blocked from viewing by other users without notification. 
