 The turmoil on Wall Street played a lead role Wednesday in Missoula at a sitdown Bill LeBlanc and his wife held with their financial adviser.Gary, are any of your clients jumping yet? Jumping out the window? LeBlanc said he joked.LeBlanc, a statistician eight years from retirement, said the meeting lasted longer than usual - a full hour and a half. As he and his wife looked for reassurance their investments were sound, their adviser's cell phone rang and rang. The LeBlancs' worries stemmed from the recent failures of global banking institutions, which dealt blows this week to a weak U.S. economy already on the verge of recession. The Federal Reserve bailed out American International Group, the country's biggest insurer. Bank of America scooped up a faltering Merrill Lynch. And the latest upheaval comes on the heels of a national housing foreclosure crisis that is only worsening this year.Missoula felt the tremors this week in small but immediate ways. LeBlanc, for example, said he will push some of his investments from equities into bonds. Financial planners responded to a barrage of client phone calls that started Monday and hadn't relented by midweek. And at the Merrill Lynch branch downtown, employees were muzzled from talking with media.All pinches rather than slaps, but the current national crisis could put the hurt on Missoula later, said Patrick Barkey, director of the Bureau of Business and Economic Research at the University of Montana.Barkey said the financial services industry has been growing but remains a relatively small part of the local economy. So while the possibility that local branches will shrink is a concern, Barkey said it isn't his biggest fear. Rather, the availability of credit - or lack thereof - could hurt the local economy.The one that concerns me is the average business in Missoula that expects to be able to get credit on decent terms finds out for whatever reason that there's new restrictions and it's harder - and even maybe impossible, Barkey said.That means a small business with plans to expand could be curtailed. Or a bank might want to renegotiate the terms of a loan. Basically, he said, people who are good risks cannot get access to credit. That's the fear.I think we're going in that direction, Barkey said.That's a grim economic picture, but Barkey also said Montana so far has resisted the downward pitch nationally. After all, the state's financial health depends not wholly on Merrill Lynch but on a wide mix of things, including fishing seasons and wood products. Barkey said the most recent employment data look somewhat weak, but the economy in the Big Sky continues to buck the trend.It's beginning to feel a little bit more like a downturn here, but to my mind, the numbers have not yet indicated we're doing anything but growing, Barkey said.Nevertheless, investors are worried, and this week their phone calls have streamed into local financial institutions. At Wachovia Securities, Tim Roy said people have been asking if their portfolios are safe.We've sure been busy ... hand-holding and comforting investors, Roy said.The branch manager and certified financial planner said he cautions people not to make investment decisions when their emotions are running high. Their panic isn't altogether unfounded, though. Roy, in the business since 1984, has seen the boom and bust cycle come around before, and he said this bust looks particularly ugly.I think this is certainly one of the more major downturns that we've seen, Roy said.Wachovia serves mainly retired people, or couples and families planning for retirement. Roy said he will warn clients against overselling and also point them to silver linings.There are some market opportunities that get unveiled in these market downturns, Roy said.At D.A. Davidson &amp;amp; Co., branch manager Frank D'Angelo agreed and said investors need to position themselves for the upswing.The biggest risk investors face is being out of the market the first six months of a new bull market, D'Angelo said.Calls picked up this week at D.A. Davidson, too. D'Angelo said clients need to know that the fallout has been mainly limited to the financial sector, and many stocks outside that arena remain healthy.D'Angelo said the company offers some investments from companies under duress, but those companies have not been on Davidson's list of recommended investments. So are they telling clients to dump, say, Merrill Lynch?I think the short answer is that we rely heavily on our analysts and we recommend to our clients after we've done a due diligence, D'Angelo said.D'Angelo encouraged clients to be in touch with their financial planners during these stressful times. So far, he said, there's one big question on most people's minds.Quite frankly, they want to know when is it going to end? When am I going to start seeing some positive news come out of the markets? D'Angelo said.Not everyone is up for answering those questions. A receptionist at Merrill Lynch directed all inquiries to headquarters. At a local AIG office, an insurance agent did the same, saying the company is still paying claims and he'd had a few calls.An understatement?I'm not going to answer that. I'll just say I've had a few calls, he said.LeBlanc, who met Wednesday with his adviser, said he listens to financial analysts give conflicting reports. Some say the economy will improve soon enough, but he has more faith in those making darker predictions.I still see guys saying, It's not over yet. It's going to get even worse,' and I think that's right, LeBlanc said.Reporter Keila Szpaller can be reached at 523-5262 or at keila.s
