A HARD working Bexhill College student has been offered what she describes as her 'dream job' with Barclays on their retail development programme.When Danielle Bilsby decided that she wanted to work in the banking sector she applied directly to Barclays. After being invited to their Chelmsford offices, Danielle went through a tough interview process which involved group tasks as well as one to one interviews. She was told she would learn the outcome within a fortnight.'The next two weeks seemed to go on forever. Then on July 26 I received an email informing me that they would like to offer me a place on the programme. I cried with joy I was so happy! I had been accepted to train in my dream job,' beamed DanielleFrom studying ebusiness, graphics and word processing at Bexhill College, Danielle knew her future lay in the business world.The road to success has not always been a smooth one as Danielle explains.'I worked hard and successfully completed my course. I conducted my work experience at HSBC and undertook a variety of roles gaining a basic knowledge of retail banking. I enjoyed working in the bank environment. I knew from that moment onwards that it was the place for me. However, to begin with I struggled at college, I found it hard to settle in and concentrate but by adapting and changing the ways I studied I was able to overcome the hard parts and got through it. My tutors at Bexhill College were always on hand to help. I have learnt a lot about myself as well as business. This was due to my studies and experiences at Bexhill College'.The retail development programme is a fully sponsored three-year degree in management and leadership. In addition studying the candidates will undertake work-based learning as well as receiving a salary.For those who are considering their next step, Danielle said: 'Without the help and support of my teachers at college I would not have even applied for and been successful with my application. My advice to other students wishing to follow a similar path would be to believe in yourself, study hard and don't give up no matter how hard it gets. The rewards at the end are worth the struggle. I am very excited and enthusiastic about beginning the programme. I am all set to work hard and make sacrifices to take me all the way to the top.'
