 CATEGORY: International purchasing project of the yearWINNER: PZ Cussons (International)A spotless startPZ Cussons' first venture into category management on a global scale produced very strong results, Delwyn Cummack findsJudges described the work by PZ Cussons' global laundry category team as a 'truly worldwide sourcing exercise enabling delivery to multiple global locations. A blueprint for the future of the business.'The cross-functional initiative spanning three continents produced some impressive results for PZ Cussons, whose products include soap, toiletries and laundry products. Its global purchasing network was formed in 2004. This was the first move toward a global purchasing strategy involving all procurement teams. But it became clear collaboration with other functions was necessary to deliver business expectations. This led to PZ Cussons' first venture into category management on a global scale.Participants from purchasing and technical functions in the UK, Australia, Nigeria and Poland were involved in reviewing technical and commercial activity in the laundry category. Spend in this category exceeds 43 million, approximately 17 per cent of total group expenditure. The laundry category team was formed during the second half of 2006 and PZ Cussons undertook the first of its eight global tenders covering multiple operations in 2007. The project aimed to conduct a detailed review of spending on laundry powder materials, recommend a global sourcing plan, find strategic suppliers, review (and where possible standardise) raw material specifications and develop a cost model to calculate optimum formulation costs. It also aimed to increase technical and commercial knowledge sharing across the group.Christien Smith, head of purchasing at the company, says part of the success of the project has been the input from technical colleagues who 'were there from day one'.The project has resulted in a successful category review, with 93,000 metric tonnes of raw materials now purchased globally. Specifications for raw materials used in laundry products have been harmonised, representing 56 per cent of total volume bought across the project area and 1.5 million of potential savings have been identified through e-sourcing.The team also demonstrated how an aligned network can provide effective communication and teamwork across continents. The lessons learnt are now being extended into other product categories and internal activities.Smith says winning the award was 'a fabulous achievement for the team', and the project has been 'truly valued by the business in general'.John Pantelireis, PZ Cussons' global sourcing director, says he found it 'exceptional' that the achievements were made 'across three continents, three different cultures and in a short space of time and with some impressive financial results.'ALSO ON THE SHORTLISTG4S, HSBC, ReutersCATEGORY: CIPS Young Purchasing and Supply Management Professional of the YearWINNER: Tilly Harvey-Godfrey, AXA UKThe only way is upOverhauling AXA UK's professional services purchasing helped Tilly Harvey-Godfrey to clinch this award, as Jake Kanter reportsIt has been an excellent year for procurement's latest young gun. Not only has she been awarded CIPS Young Purchasing and Supply Management Professional of the Year, she has passed her graduate diploma in purchasing and supply and been head-hunted by one of the UK's largest banks.Tilly Harvey-Godfrey, professional services category manager at AXA, had not even stepped up to receive her award when she was offered a role at Lloyds TSB as a consultancy sourcing manager. She is expected to start in November and will look to build on what she has learnt at AXA. 'It feels like the right move, a good fit. AXA has given me a fantastic grounding, some mentors and coaches who have always been there to support me along the way.'During her time with the insurance firm she has overhauled the entire strategy for professional services, which has an annual spend of 23 million. This new strategy secured savings of 2.5 million.But she does not highlight this as the most significant of her achievements. Harvey-Godfrey is particularly proud of her part in co-ordinating a high-profile cross-functional procurement project to improve archiving, imaging and mailrooms across several AXA entities in the UK.The project achieved complete compliance with independent accounting and outsourcing rules and delivered savings of 750,000 last year alone. A further 5.3 million in cost reductions have been targeted for 2014. 'I was involved from start to finish and it was great to see tangible results. It was hard work but good to get your teeth into.'The award has helped contribute to what she describes as the best year in her career so far, although it took a while for the achievement to sink in. 'I woke up the next morning and thought, 'Did I win? Ah, yes I did!''It was a fantastic evening and winning gave it a very special edge. It was a bit of a surprise looking at the competition. I was very nervous sitting in front of the judging panel for my presentation, but they were the nicest people.'She says her experience managing a professional services category may have given her the edge over other nominees, because it involves different challenges. 'It's a relatively new category and you have to be very engaged with stakeholders. It all has to be managed without treading on anyone's toes.'The judges highlighted Harvey-Godfrey's 'drive and determination' and she is very open about her ambition.'I think the only way is up. I'd love to be a CPO at a large organisation and hopefully by that stage procurement will be on the board of directors.'ALSO ON THE SHORTLISTJoanne Leah, Allerdale Borough Council; Linda McLean, Sellafield; Eleanor Biddiscombe, WincantonCATEGORY: CIPS Purchasing and Supply Management Professional of the YearWINNER: Steve Morgan, SellafieldHigh energy leaderAn ethical and courageous approach in a tough industry resulted in the top accolade for Sellafield's Steve Morgan. By Paul SnellAs director of commercial and contract management at Sellafield, Steve Morgan has, the organisation says, 'brought procurement out of the darkness into the limelight' over the past four years.He has raised purchasing to an executive-level function, making decisions, saving money and earning praise for his 'high energy leadership' says managing director Barry Snelson.A former US Navy Rear Admiral, Steve has 30 years' experience at every level in purchasing and supply, including roles at the US Department of Defense and Department of Energy.Under his stewardship at Sellafield, competitive procurements jumped from 18 per cent to 92 per cent in three years, and his rebuilt function achieved savings of more than 200 million.His innovations included appointing a supply chain ombudsman (see page 28), a cost and price analysis team (saving more than 20 million in three years), and a procurement head of profession responsible for establishing professional standards and training requirements.In addition, his team reduced the number of deals awarded from 15,000 in 2004, to around 500 active contracts. Supplier numbers have also been cut from 14,000 three years ago, to 531.Although procurement funding at Sellafield has increased from about 450 million to more than 700 million, productivity has increased to such an extent that the workforce has been reduced by 20 per cent.Morgan rotates most personnel every two years to accelerate learning and innovation as well as individual careers. He is leading efforts to earn CIPS gold certification for Sellafield and has supported the formation of a CIPS branch in Cumbria.Morgan has also been heading shared services initiatives across the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA). As chairman of the Shared Services Alliance of seven NDA contractors, he has led efforts to consolidate procurement, financial services, IT, personnel and logistics into a single firm owned by all seven companies. The alliance has so far achieved 13.2 million savings, with further benefits of about 75 million identified over the next few years.Judges praised Morgan for his 'ethical and courageous approach to making things happen', for driving change in a tough industry and his role as a mentor for the rest of his team.Morgan paid tribute to his staff after picking up the award. 'I am thrilled. Although it was presented to me as an individual, it is a group prize that couldn't have been achieved without the input of the team. We've come a long way and are at the forefront of the nuclear industry, achieving respect at the level we deserve.'ALSO ON THE SHORTLISTRoger Simpson-Jones, London Development Agency; Julie Craig, Procurement for Housing
