FIRST-home buyer couples who save hard will collect up to $1700 a year from taxpayers in reward for their thrift. From October 1, the Federal Government will give would-be home owners 17 cents for every dollar they save in special new bank accounts to be unveiled today. The scheme is expected to cost taxpayers about $1.2 billion over the first four years, including administration. But property market entrants can only earn and withdraw the cash if they make contributions of at least $1000 a year for four years. If they find their perfect home in less than four years, the account balance will be transferred to their superannuation and can't be used towards the purchase. Couples must open two accounts - with both partners eligible for the bonus. A single first-home buyer who saves $5000 a year will be eligible to collect a maximum of $850 a year. Couples who save $10,000 a year will be eligible for a $1700-a-year taxpayer top-up. The ANZ and Commonwealth banks today will unveil full details of the First Home Saver Accounts, first flagged in May's Federal Budget. Account holders must be aged between 18 and 65 and the savings can only be used to buy a home. Buyers do not have to contribute every year but will only receive government top-ups in the years they do. Account balances are capped at $75,000, including government contributions and interest. Government contributions to the account are not taxed and interest on the account balance is taxed at a special rate of 15 per cent - lower than normal personal tax rates. First-home buyers must live in the house for at least six months after withdrawing and spending their money. The accounts do not replace the First Home Owner Grant scheme and home buyers will have to apply separately for the grants. The Government estimates that 220,000 people will open an account this year. About 730,000 would-be home buyers are expected to hold accounts by 2011, with a combined balance of about $6.5 billion. The Commonwealth Bank will pay 6.5 per cent interest a year on its account, while the ANZ will offer 7 per cent a year if savers meet a minimum deposit of $10 a month. AMP Bank will also launch an account on Monday, with a special introductory offer of 8 per cent for the first year. Westpac said it had no immediate plans to offer the accounts, while the NAB expects to introduce them soon. Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan said the scheme was the fulfilment of an election commitment. 'Saving a decent deposit for your first home is one of the biggest financial hurdles young Australians face these days, so the Rudd Government's First Home Saver Accounts will be a real help in making the dream of home ownership a reality,' he said. 
