GO ON, admit it. You felt a sliver of satisfaction watching those money-men who liked to be known as the Masters of the Universe, trudging out of failed bank Lehman Brothers with their possessions in a cardboard box.You weren't particularly moved by the tales of woe, of people who had to postpone their plans to marry, or to stop purchasing 30,000 bottles of wine, were you?Profit isn't a dirty word and it's not wrong to make money. But what is wrong is if the way you make that money impacts horrifically on innocent victims.The key decision-makers at Lehman's are men and women whose apparent collective greed and appalling lack of judgement will mean that your pension could go down the pan, that your kids won't be able to get a mortgage, and that thousands of people whose jobs are nothing to do with investment banking will topple into the abyss.Because of the absurd bonuses handed out to these people over the past decade, because of the second, third and even fourth homes they were able to buy, the cost of housing has sky-rocketed.But even they do not compare with some individuals who have earned their crust by spreading false rumours to manipulate share prices and ruining people's lives with their vicious, reckless, profiteering.Thanks to them, thousands of ordinary people who work for Lloyds Bank and HBOS now face redundancy, with all the misery that will entail.What really riles me, though, is when the suits start lining up, wagging their fingers and telling us that just because they've lost their jobs and vast, inflated salaries, the rest of us mustn't feel smug. Oh no. Or think it won't affect us too.That's the real joke. When DIDN'T their stupid, reckless decisions affect us? When DIDN'T ordinary people have to suffer the repercussions of the City's disgusting excess? From the decision to allow mortgages for seven times a person's salary, which jacked up house prices, to the decision to slice and dice the mortgage debt.Ever since I was in pigtails, fat-bottomed bankers and stockbrokers have appeared on TV to insist that we really need to ensure the people at the top are paid vast sums of cash because otherwise the company will fail, or jobs will go abroad or the sky will fall in.When it comes to their pocket, it's always the Chicken Licken scenario, isn't it? These people coin it in the good times. They coin it in the bad. And, when their greed, arrogance and cock-up management fail, they coin it all over again.Did Adam Applegarth of Northern Rock have to sell his fancy mansion and the car on the driveway when his bank went pop? No. He received a 760,000 payoff for his trouble. Plus a 304,000 pension. Even though, by the time it was announced, every taxpayer in Britain was paying for his failure.Over in America the government - which means the taxpayers - have just announced a bail-out of leviathan proportions. And not one of the people responsible for triggering it will either be prosecuted, or lose their home, car and future.The recession and the fallout from this week's financial firestorm will hit us all, don't worry about that. But in the meantime the lack of compassion for the people who brought it to us is justified as for once, they're the ones who are suffering first.
