HBOS - Lloyds TSB merger likely to push up mortgage rates Photo:  The concept sounds utterly tempting. Instead of selling your home in a tumbling property market, and getting thousands of pounds less than you hoped for, why not raffle the thing off, flogging tickets to thousands of people desperate for a 25 shortcut to the good life?Recent weeks have seen a rash of property raffles, garnering substantial amounts of media attention - in particular of a Devon country estate complete with lake and fishing rights, and a property in Cheltenham with contemporary spa room and subterranean cinema that was featured on the Channel 4 programme Grand Designs.But what looks like a win-win idea for buyers and sellers could end up planting you in some pretty tricky legal territory - indeed, it could even see you be prosecuted for running an illegal lottery.The problem is that it is illegal in the UK to raffle off prizes once they exceed a certain value. After that, the competition is deemed to be a lottery, and under the Gambling Act it is illegal to run a lottery for personal profit.Of course, it is perfectly permissible to run a competition for profit, provided there is an element of skill for participants. To this end, most of these property raffles require those taking part to answer a question. Lawyers are now debating whether some of the relatively simple quizzes used meet the requirements laid down in the Gambling Act. While some have passed muster, others have fallen foul: one woman has been charged by the police, while a man had to withdraw another raffle after getting a warning letter from his council. There is danger for ticket-buyers, too: while many of these competitions will have been set up in good faith, some may be scams in which you have no chance of a return on your 25 stake. Most of the competitions stipulate that the house won't be sold unless all the tickets have been snapped up. In such cases, a winner is still selected, but they will only pocket the cash raised from sold tickets, minus 'expenses'' and possibly a nominal donation to charity. With some sellers claiming that up to 35 per cent of the money raised will be needed to cover expenses, it is easy to see how the raffle can be a neat little money-spinner.Also, as most of the tickets sell for between 20 and 30, sellers have to offload many thousands in order to raise the required sum. Even with the oxygen of publicity provided by a national newspaper or TV programme, this is no simple task. 'Most homes will not attract nearly enough people to pay the promoter's costs and reach the market value of the property,'' says a spokesman from the financial website the Motley Fool. 'So the whole exercise will be relatively pointless.'' 
