 during the War of 1812, a pennant emblazoned with the words Dont Give Up the Ship flew from the masthead of the brig Lawrence. The ship was named for Captain James Lawrence, who had died in battle in Boston Harbor on June 1, 1813. The words on the pennant were those he uttered as he lay dying. On that September day, 28-year-old Commodore Oliver Hazard Perrys fleet of nine ships: USS Lawrence, Niagara, Ariel, Caledonia, Somers, Scorpion, Porcupine, Trippe, and Tigress, lay at a base he had established at Put-in Bay in the Bass Islands north of present-day Sandusky, Ohio. British Captain Robert Barclay attacked Perrys fleet with his fleet of six ships: HMS Detroit, Queen Charlotte, Lady Prevost, Hunter, Little Belt and Chippewa.Approaching each other in parallel battle lines  the engagement was the only traditional fleet action of the war  the two squadrons engaged each other at 11:45 a.m. Perry planned to close with the enemy as quickly as possible, because the British guns had longer range. But before Perry could close in, his flagship Lawrence took the brunt of the fighting from Detroit and Queen Charlotte, and by about 2:30 p.m. had suffered 84 dead and wounded. With 19 of his crew, Perry was rowed to the Niagara. Perry immediately sailed through the center of the British line, crossing the T and sending raking broadsides the length of Barclays two biggest ships. Barclay, who had lost an arm in the battle, was forced to surrender, thus becoming the first British commander in history to do so with his entire squadron.That afternoon, Perry wrote to General William Henry Harrison: We have met the enemy and they are ours. Two Ships, two Brigs, one Schooner &amp;amp; one Sloop. The battle at Put-in Bay was a turning point in the War of 1812, for in securing control of Lake Erie, Perry removed the British threat to the Northwest Territory. On September 23, Niagara sailed in support of Harrisons attack on Ft. Malden, Ontario, and then covered the Armys recapture of Detroit before going back to Presque Isle for the winter. The following year the Niagara captured four British ships on Lake Erie before returning again to her homeport where she was later intentionally sunk in Misery Bay, whose cold, fresh water acted as a preservative. She was raised in 1913, restored and put on exhibit at various ports along the middle lake for the Battle of Lake Erie centennial. Kept on permanent exhibit at Erie, she was restored again in 1939 and 1963. A replica of the brig built by Melbourne Smith for the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission was launched in 1988.Both the Niagara and its sister ship Lawrence were built by New York shipbuilders Adam &amp;amp; Noah Brown, who in 1815 had a hand in the building of Fulton Steam Frigate (a.k.a. Demologos or Fulton the First), which was the first steam-powered warship built for the U.S. Navy and the last ship designed by Robert Fulton. In 1818, they built Walk-in-the Water, an appropriate name for the first Great Lakes steamboat that ran passenger service between Black Rock, N.Y. and Detroit. Marine historian Howard Capella of the Smithsonian Institute wrote of shipbuilder Noah Brown regarding his building of the Niagara and Lawrence: The amount of work that Brown accomplished with about 200 men, without power tools, and in a wilderness during the worst winter months, makes some of modern [World War II] wartime production feats something less than impressive.Perry, who was born in South Kingston, Rhode Island on August 20, 1785, died at sea on August 23, 1819. His brother, Commodore Matthew Perry, is famous for opening Japan to U.S. trade in 1854. Brooklyn Daily Eagle 2008All materials posted on BrooklynEagle.com are protected by United States copyright law.Just a reminder, though -- Its not considered polite to paste the entire story on your blog. Most blogs post a summary or the first paragraph,( 40 words) then post a link to the rest of the story. That helps increase click-throughs for everyone, and minimizes copyright issues. So please keep posting, but not the entire article. arturc at att.netMain Office 718 422 7400
