UBS, the Swiss banking giant, was sued on Tuesday by one of its former top private-banking clients, Igor Olenicoff, as a federal investigation into its offshore services unfolds.Mr. Olenicoff, a billionaire property developer, filed his complaint against UBS and nearly a dozen current and former executives of the bank in federal court in Santa Ana, Calif., The New York Timess Lynnley Browning reports. The lawsuit accuses UBS, a small Swiss firm, and two private firms based in Liechtenstein and their employees of luring Mr. Olenicoff into becoming a client and a participant in a deceptive investment scheme intended to cheat the Internal Revenue Service of millions of dollars in taxes. The civil case is thought to be the first to be filed by a wealthy American client of UBS, which is under investigation by the Justice Department over whether it allowed its customers to evade United States taxes by hiding money offshore.The case is also notable because it contends that Mr. Olenicoffs former senior private banker, Bradley C. Birkenfeld, received a large settlement from UBS after complaining that it had encouraged its private bankers to violate United States tax laws.The suit contends that UBS turned over Mr. Olenicoffs name to the I.R.S. in about 2005, a move that would have been surprising for a Swiss bank that follows a centuries-old tradition of banking secrecy. Mr. Olenicoff is accusing the defendants of fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, among other things.UBS said it had not seen the complaint and thus could not comment upon it.Mr. Olenicoff has already run afoul of the tax code. In December, he pleaded guilty to criminal charges of tax evasion and lying on his tax returns, all in connection with his offshore private banking accounts. He agreed to pay $52 million in back taxes.Mr. Birkenfeld pleaded guilty in June to charges of conspiracy and tax evasion, and agreed to cooperate with the investigation into UBS.Federal investigators suspect that some UBS clients may have used offshore accounts to hide as much as $20 billion in assets from the I.R.S. Doing so may have enabled these clients to evade $300 million or more in federal taxes on income from those assets.In his lawsuit, Mr. Olenicoff said that he was the target of a scheme by UBS, the worlds largest private bank, to seek out and sign up wealthy Americans who wanted to put their money offshore into a Swiss bank. Mr. Olenicoff, who was born in Russia and emigrated to the United States decades ago, has an estimated net worth of $1.7 billion. Using offshore accounts is not illegal for United States taxpayers, but hiding income in so-called undeclared accounts is.Edward Robbins Jr., a lawyer for Mr. Olenicoff in the criminal case who does not represent him in his civil complaint, told The Times on Tuesday that his client was not backing off from his admission in December. Hes not blaming the defendants for this criminal act, he said.William King, the lawyer who filed the complaint, said that his client was basically misled by the bankers he trusted.The lawsuit, which seeks up to $500 million in damages, names more than 30 defendants, including Mr. Birkenfeld; Martin Liechti, a top UBS private banker; and Peter Kurer, the banks former top lawyer.It also names the other entities as having worked with UBS to help defraud Mr. Olenicoff and to help him defraud the I.R.S.  Neue Bank AG and New Haven Trust in Liechtenstein, and Union Charter in Switzerland, as well as their senior employees.The suit says that in about 1999, Mr. Birkenfeld, who at the time worked for Barclays, sought to trick Mr. Olenicoff into coming to UBS as a client by telling him that Barclays was getting rid of the part of its offshore banking business where he was a client. At the time, Mr. Birkenfeld was planning to join UBS and wanted to bring Mr. Olenicoff, then his star client at Barclays, there.  
