McCain will improve countryI am writing to set the record straight: The fact is, if George W. Bush's policies fail, John McCain will not continue them. I am tired of this liberal idea that John McCain will continue the same failed policies of George Bush, because the fact of the matter is this is far from the case. True, McCain will keep the U.S. in Iraq, but he will surely change course somewhat. He will have to to keep America Safe.This is a stark contrast from Obama, who will almost surely not keep America safe. Cut and run is never a safe strategy, and you would have to be fooling yourself to think this will work.And on the economy, there is no way that Obama will get our economy back on track, because he will allow his buddies in the Senate to continue to spend the taxpayers' money the same way they have been doing the past two years. The economic problems we have been facing the past two years have been the fault of both the Republicans and the Democrats, but only John McCain realizes this.Excessive spending is no way to fix an already failing economy. The point is: on every front, the clear choice in this election is John McCain. Experience, leadership, and the only ticket with a running mate with executive experience. As president, John McCain will cut spending, and get our economy, and our nation back on track. Vote McCain on Nov. 4!James NestorAikenU.S. will be better off under ObamaDo you know much about lemmings, those tiny rodents found in or near the Arctic? While many people believe that lemmings commit mass suicide when they migrate, this is not the case. Occasionally, large migrating groups will reach a cliff overlooking the ocean, jump off and start swimming, sometimes to exhaustion and death.'Lemming suicide' is a phrase used in reference to people who go along unquestioningly with popular opinion, with potentially dangerous or fatal consequences.See a parallel to this year's presidentail race here?Under the current Republican administration, we find our country facing the largest number of home foreclosures since the Great Depression, the collapse of well-known Wall Street institutions, rising numbers of unemployed workers as companies ship jobs overseas and 47 million Americans without health insurance. Internationally, respect for America has hit an all-time low and terrorist organizations are gaining in strength. In spite of everything, Republicans want you to vote to keep them in the White House! To quote Dr. Phil, 'How's that been working for you?'John McCain's positions on health care, education, the economy, foreign policy, the mortgage crisis and the Iraq War differ very little from Bush and the Republican Party. Hardly a 'political maverick' or 'reformer'!With 80 percent of the American people believing that the country is going in the wrong direction, why on earth would we vote for someone who is offering more of the same? Just ask yourself, 'Am I better off now than I was eight years ago?' If your answer is 'no', then vote the Obama-Biden ticket and get this country moving in the right direction!Molly McCluskeyAikenBarrett seeks alternative fuelsOn Thursday, Sept. 11, I began my day thinking of where I was on that day seven years ago, when the worst day in our history short of Pearl Harbor occurred.I also watched through the day, the news of the impending Hurricane Ike that was headed to the Gulf Coast.I received a call late Thursday from a friend in the fuel business who told me that the main pipeline in Louisiana that feeds the tank farms in North Augusta had been shut down and that I should hurry and fill my vehicles, because by Saturday, the price would be sky high and our area would probably run out of gasoline.That's when it really hit me how dependant we all are on that one type of fuel and that our whole local economy could come to halt without it.That's why we must re elect our Congressman Gresham Barrett. We must have leaders like Gresham, who will fight for us and help America become independent from foreign oil and also develop and use alternative energy sources.Please join me in November and let's re elect our congressman who will continue to fight for our future, Gresham Barrett.Don SprawlsAikenBabies don't get a choiceChoice? What about a baby's choice?Laurel Sherwood wants to talk to Sarah Palin about God. She needs to read her Bible. I cannot find a verse where God said you have a choice on what babies to kill and which ones should live. Mrs. Sherwood is right about one thing; we all should have choices, including babies.Travis YonceAikenPrime example of helping othersNana, as she is affectionately known to our five grandchildren, has been a dental hygienist for a local dentist in Aiken for the past 30 years. She genuinely cares and loves just about every one of her patients. Recently, one such patient, who happens to be in his mid 80s, had a very close friend that had passed away and had lived in Fayetteville, N.C. This elderly gentleman wanted very much to be able to pay his respects and attend the funeral in Fayetteville, but had no one to take him.In talking to Nana about this during his scheduled appointment, Nana said, I will take you to Fayetteville to attend your friend's funeral. His words were 'would you do that for me?' And the answer was, 'I certainly will.'The two of them left early Sunday morning and returned late Sunday evening.As I said above, Nana cares and loves her patients, and this is a prime example of her caring.She also is wonderful wife and grandmother.Roy MillsAikenDouble standard by administration?I was wondering whether the letter writers who frequently condemn 'socialism' are troubled by the Republican administration's bailout/takeover/nationalization of a major investment bank (Bear Stearns), a major insurance company (AIG), and two major home mortgage companies (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac)? One writer has referred to this Bush policy as 'socialist capitalism'.Is it OK to use taxpayers' money to help big corporations, but not OK to use taxpayers' money to help unemployed workers and sick children? Are CEOs making $45 million a year more deserving of government assistance than the 45 million Americans who have no health insurance? Do conservatives believe in socialism for the rich, and capitalism for the poor? The current economic crisis is a glaring example of what greedy, ethically-challenged speculators can cause when capitalism is not effectively regulated by government.
