BY lunchtime yesterday, about $40 billion had been wiped off the share market. The All Ordinaries was down 3.49per cent. The Commonwealth Bank was down 3.6per cent, ANZ down 3.75, Westpac down 4.48 and NAB down 7.05. MacBank shares had lost $5.73 or 16.89per cent while Babcock &amp;amp; Brown was down 20.65per cent.Kevin Rudd called a press conference - and announced that he had held a meeting about a meeting. The PM had sat down with Paul Bell, the president of the Local Government Association, and agreed to hold an unprecedented gathering of the nation's 565 local councils in the Great Hall of Parliament House on November 28. Another summit. And, just like in the Demtel ads, there was more. 'Local government delivers significant infrastructure,' Rudd said. 'We wish to be new partners in that with them.' And more. The PM repeated his pre-election promise for a referendum to give constitutional recognition to local government. That could be quite courageous: a referendum on that topic won just 33.61per cent support in 1988. Stand-alone referendums don't come cheap. The republic vote in 1999 cost more than $66million. A referendum bundled up with the next election would be far cheaper but could prove distracting. The benefits of infrastructure funds are more straightforward. The Government plans to start a local community infrastructure fund next year, the catchily christened Local Government and Local Communities Infrastructure Fund. It won't provide regional rorts: perish the thought. Instead, it will offer much-needed local facilities for local Labor MPs to open. The Government obviously thought it had a winner. The PM took a Dixer on the topic. So did Local Government Minister Anthony Albanese. Then Jason Woods, the Liberal MP for the Victorian seat of La Trobe, got to his feet. Was the Prime Minister aware that on Saturday, November 29, all 79 local governments in Victoria go to the polls? Why had the PM sought to disenfranchise Victorians by holding the summit on the eve of their local government election day when many council representatives would be likely to change the next day? Whoops. Perhaps the PM should have first had a meeting about the meeting about the meeting.
