   As people are gaining awareness to the recent events that occurred on Wall Street the way people conduct their lives is going to be significantly altered. Now that people are realizing that we are in fact in a recession and are heading towards a depression, people are going to change all aspects of their current decision making process. First off, the general public is awaiting the magnitude to which the $700 billion dollar buyout is going to affect their financial status. People are aware that things are happening, but not sure exactly where they are going to see it t directly on their lives. Not only on a individual basis but companies on a public sector are waiting in vigor to see what stems from the offset. Large and small businesses alike are waiting to see what the implications are going to be both in the short and long run. In order for any type of decision making to occur people want to know what will be the repercussions of every single decision they make. In regards to different industries that will be affected determines how that industry is playing the market. In regards to the medical industry the fact the insurance giant AIG was taken over by the government gives them assurance of coverage. However those involved in occurrences of medical malpractice in Philadelphia may be seeing the brunt in regards to the amount of settlements decreasing. Another issue in regards to the medical industry being impacted by the current economic state will stem from the outcome of the pre-emptive proposal. A Pre-Emptive doctrine has been proposed by Congress, which states ?FDA approval of drugs or medical devices pre-empts the ability for individuals to sue manufacturers for liability in state courts.? If the Supreme Court passes this piece of legislature the implications will affect medical malpractice and product liability cases tremendously. This proposal has been brought to decrease the amount of injury cases based on frivolous claims. If this proposal is passed, the people who will be hurt the most are those victims that have legitimate claims of medical malpractice in Philadelphia and product liability issues. The victims suffering from true instances of medical malpractice in Philadelphia may have their claims thrown out if they do not meet the necessary requirements for the Pre-emptive statute will kick in. There are two sides to every story in which both benefits and risks are going to be brought to attention to the Supreme Court that will make the final decision. If you or a loved one has been harmed by an instance of medical malpractice in Philadelphia, contact a medical malpractice lawyer immediately. For there may be time limitations placed on your case in which it is essential to get all your information to an attorney as soon as possible. Don?t let those who wronged you get away with what they have done and continue to do it to others. An experienced medical malpractice Philadelphia lawyer has the skills and qualifications necessary to stand up for you in a court of law and gain justice. 
