 (Agencia de Informacao de Mocambique/All Africa Global Media via COMTEX News Network) -- The Australian mining company Riversdale on Friday announced that it has completed its Coal Project Mining Study, for an open cast coal mine at Benga, in the western Mozambican province of Tete, and has delivered the study to the Mozambican government. The Executive Chairman of Riversdale, Michael O'Keefe, told a Maputo press conference that the mining study, if accepted by the government, would be the basis for granting Riversdale a mining concession at Benga.. He said that a detailed environmental impact study on both the mine and an associated coal-fired power station will be completed by December. Riversdale has told the government that the mine will ready to start production in 2010. It plans a production of 20 million tonnes a year. Direct capital investment in start-up costs, O'Keefe said, would be in excess of 800 million US dollars. He estimated that the mine will create 1,500 direct, permanent jobs, and 4,500 indirect jobs. Riversdale is just one of several companies exploring the coal reserves of Tete, regarded as one of last great unexploited coal basins on the planet. A short distance to the east of Benga the Brazilian mining giant, the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), has a concession with proven reserves of 2.4 billion tonnes of coal. Coal exports by Riversdale, CVRD and other operators in the area will exceed the capacity of the Sena railway that links the coal basin to the port of Beira, and the port terminal itself. Other options are being looked at, and O'keefe said Riversdale favoured taking the coal on barges down the Zambezi river. At the mouth of the river the coal could then be put on gigantic floating platforms, and taken onto the high sea, where it would be transferred to the holds of large ocean-going vessels. Riversale plans to export high quality coking coal from Benga, for use in the steel industry. This coal is very near the surface, and so Riversdale predicts that 'the prime hard coking coal from Benga will be among the lowest cost coking coal in the world'. O'Keefe predicted that the world price of coking coal will remain high, and that a price of 200 dollars a tonne 'is sustainable for some time to come'. This is because the expansion of coking coal production is lagging behind the growth in the steel industry internationally. Australia is currently the supplier of 60 per cent of seaborne coking coal - but it cannot expand rapidly enough to meet demand. Some of the thermal coal produced at Benga will be burnt in the power station, to produce 500 megawatts in its first phase. The Benga coal deposits account for less than five per cent of the area in Tete for which Riversdale holds exploration licences. O'Keefe said that over the next three years Riversale will spend 40 million dollars exploring all its other licensed areas. He praised the Mozambican government for its 'use it or lose it' policy towards licences. If a company does not use its exploration licence, the government will take it back. O'Keefe also announced the formation of an International Advisory Board to oversee development of the coal project, and to develop corporate social responsibility programmes in Tete. This board will be chaired by Casimiro Francisco, the current chairperson of Barclays Bank Mozambique. Among its other members are Oscar Monteiro, a former Minister of state Administration and founder of the Mozambican civil service college, ISAP, and financial export Michael Price. Riversdale will be represented on the board by O'Keefe, and Andrew Love. O'Keefe insisted that Riversdale wanted to work with Tete communities. 'Our mining study clearly states that there can be no successful mining operation in Mozambique without due consideration for the wider economic, environmental and social impact of mining activities', he said. 
