Deputy Prime Minister Nazm Ekren, who is in charge of coordinating the economy, provoked no end of merriment when he announced his government's recipe for weathering the financial storms we know to be ahead. Anyone who thought he might have opted for the traditional method of bolstering confidence at a time of crisis and asserting credibility by entering into serious talks with the IMF was in for an amusing surprise. The real answer, Ekren insisted, was a project intended to establish stanbul as an international financial center. Draw in foreign institutions at a time when the balances of liquidity are out of kilter and you'll be drawing in a rich source of funds, he told his audience, or words to that effect.The brokerage reports that circulated the next day could not conceal their mirth. 'Just because you manage to persuade Barclays to set up an office in stanbul does not mean it is going to start opening their wallets to Turkish companies,' one analyst told me in disbelief. The problem brewing for the government's handling of the economy is not that one minister has uttered a few banalities, it is that no one is standing up to reassure the markets that even though the ball is bouncing around like crazy someone, somewhere is trying to keep an eye on it.The one remark you hear most often is the political neutering of the one treasury minister who has an understanding of the markets. Mehmet imek, who worked for the nearly late, lamented Merrill Lynch, has been turned into minister with responsibility for 'good news' road shows. He is credited as knowing how to address investors' real concerns, but most believe his political superiors are not letting him have his say. The prime minister is regarded as having his eyes fixed not on the hard times ahead but postponing any serious crunch until after local elections next March. The steady hand on the tiller belongs to Finance Minister Kemal Unaktan, who has maintained budget discipline.Turkey's problem remains financing its $50 billion current account deficit. The usual sources for this -- foreign direct investment, corporate borrowing and portfolio investment -- are of course unreliable in a global crisis. Turkey's finance problem may be dwarfed by the liquidity shortage in the world's great financial institutions -- the US government has stepped in to bail out insurance giant AIG with $85 billion -- but this will not make the pressure any less severe. There is no expectation of an immediate 2001-style economic collapse. Turkey now has several self-correcting mechanisms. For example, there are many still holding foreign currency waiting for the Turkish lira to devalue further before diving back in. This in effect operates as a pressure valve. As the lira goes down, demand for lira goes up.On the other hand there is no room for complacency or for Turkey to be distracted by the sort of 'lipstick on a pig' controversies that seem to prevail elsewhere. Today's headlines will rightly focus on the sentencing in a Frankfurt court of the Turkish directors of a charity who abused the trust of their mainly ethnic Turkish contributors by siphoning off large sums which should have gone to promote good works. There should now be an inquiry to answer the accusation that some of the money found its way into government circles, as has been claimed. Turkey's ability to wrestle with corruption is as important as addressing the current account deficit. The prime minister has lashed out at the press group which has been doing the claiming, accusing it of using the 'Lighthouse' charity scandal to embarrass his government for venal motives. But he risks further embarrassment if his government does not demonstrate it is engaged with world events. The Doan group of companies has seen their share price fall after its tangles with the government. Countries have currencies(not share prices) and rates of growth. Turkey Inc. is also vulnerable.
