Gov. Sarah Palin weighs in on the economy in her interview with Sean Hannity. 'Certainly it is a mess, though, the economy is a mess,' she says. 'And there have been abuses on Wall Street, and that adversely affects Main Street.' The interview starts at 9 tonight on 'Hannity &amp;amp; Colmes' on . The second part will air at 9 p.m. Thursday. Fox News shared excerpts Wednesday afternoon.At the end of the chat, Hannity asks if Palin watched the '' skit with Tina Fey. 'I watched with the volume all the way down,' she says. 'I thought it was hilarious. I thought she was spot on.' But Palin adds, 'Again, didn't hear a word she said, but the visual, spot on.' What will Palin make of the sketch when she hears the sound? Back to the economy, Palin cites corruption on Wall Street as the cause for failing financial institutions. 'That's to blame,' she says. 'And that violation of the public trust. And that contract that should be inherent in corporations who are spending, investing other people's money. The abuse of that is what has got to stop.' ABC's Charles Gibson was the first journalist to interview Palin since Sen. John McCain selected her as his running mate. Hannity won the second interview. CBS' Katie Couric will question Palin later this month shortly before the vice-presidential debate. Otherwise, the McCain campaign has shielded Palin from the press corps.In talking to Hannity, Palin also gives her thoughts about the bailout of AIG. 'I do not like the idea, though, of taxpayers being used to bail out these corporations,' Palin says. 'Today it was AIG. Important call there, though, because of the construction bonds and the insurance carrier duties of AIG.' And Palin adds, 'But, first and foremost, taxpayers cannot be looked to as the bailout, as the solution to the problems on Wall Street.' Palin explains how she talked to her children about taking McCain's offer. 'It was a time of asking the girls to vote on it,' she says. 'And they voted unanimously, yes. Didn't bother asking my son, because, you know, he's going to be off doing his thing anyway. So he wouldn't be so impacted by, at least, the campaign period here. So [I] asked the girls what they thought, and they're like, 'Absolutely. Let's do this, mom.'' Filed under: ABC, CBS, , Katie Couric 
