OTTAWA - Stephen Harper's Conservatives have moved within reach of a majority, despite a series of gaffes by members of the party, according to results of an Ipsos Reid poll.'It seems like this relentless march by the Tories. They're not really making huge strides, but . . . obviously they're moving in the right direction,' said Darrell Bricker, CEO of Ipsos Reid Public Affairs.Photograph by : Brett Gundlock/National PostThe Conservatives have surged to 40 per cent in support, up two points from a week before, according to the poll, commissioned by Canwest News Service and Global National.Meanwhile, the Liberals have dipped two points to 27 per cent. The NDP jumped two points to 15 per cent and the Greens dropped one point to sit at 10 per cent nationally.'It seems like this relentless march by the Tories. They're not really making huge strides, but . . . obviously they're moving in the right direction,' said Darrell Bricker, CEO of Ipsos Reid Public Affairs.As always, weekly poll fluctuations should be viewed with caution, and there's a long way to go until election day on Oct. 14. The poll, conducted by phone from Tuesday through Thursday, has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.Nevertheless, the poll is notable for several reasons. First, it suggests a series of gaffes by the Conservatives might not have hurt them as much as expected.On Wednesday, Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz admitted joking about the listeriosis outbreak during a conference call with government officials last month. Harper has stood by Ritz despite a growing chorus of calls for his resignation.The misstep followed the suspension last week of Conservative party spokesman Ryan Sparrow, who suggested a dead soldier's father had criticized the Afghanistan mission for partisan political reasons. Also last week, Harper was forced to apologize for a party website animation depicting a bird defecating on Liberal Leader Stephane Dion's shoulder.'The gaffes don't matter. The only people they matter to are the people on the planes following the campaign. The public is not focused on them at all,' said Bricker.Instead, Canadian voters are increasingly focusing on the economy, he said. Global stock markets spiralled into a tailspin this week after Wall Street investment bank Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and insurance giant AIG had to be bailed out by the U.S. government.Meanwhile, a newly released report showed that Canadian housing prices slumped more than five per cent in August.Typically, economic turbulence tends to hurt political incumbents. But many Canadians view the Conservatives as the best choice to manage the economy, Bricker noted. 'When you take a look at who's best positioned on managing the economy in tough times, Harper's pretty far ahead,' he said.The regional numbers are also encouraging for the Conservatives. Traditionally, parties are believed to have a good chance of winning a majority once they cross the 40-per-cent threshold. But results of past Ipsos polls have suggested the Conservatives' magic number might be several points higher, because of their weakness in Ontario and in Quebec.But this week's poll results show the Tories gaining ground in both key battlegrounds. In Ontario, they have overtaken the Liberals and now sit at 41 per cent in support, compared with 33 per cent for the Grits. In Quebec, the Conservatives have moved into a tie with the Bloc Quebecois, at 29 per cent.Still, a number of undercurrents could eventually prevent a Conservative majority. The poll shows that Canadians are warming to that prospect, but 49 per cent still say they would be 'dissatisfied' with a Tory majority. Thirty-seven per cent would be satisfied and 14 per cent had no opinion.Meanwhile, while most Canadians agree Harper is a strong leader, a sizable number say they are uncomfortable with his leadership. Fifty-five per cent of respondents agreed with the statement that 'Stephen Harper may be a strong leader, but he's not the kind of leader that I'm comfortable with.''He's a fairly divisive character,' said Bricker. 'It comes back to the whole question of hidden agenda.'A late-campaign drive by the opposition parties to revive the 'hidden agenda' attacks of the last two elections could be effective, even though voters have heard it before, he said.
