Save This  Most Popular By Michael Gardner U-T SACRAMENTO BUREAUSeptember 25, 2008 KAREN BLEIER / AFP /  Text-messaging has rapidly become the communication of choice among young adults. SACRAMENTO  For California drivers who are all thumbs, your days are numbered. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger yesterday signed legislation that will bar drivers from text-messaging starting Jan. 1. Banning electronic text-messaging while driving will keep drivers' hands on the wheel and their eyes on the road, Schwarzenegger said in a statement. First, it was a ban on drivers using handheld cell phones. Next, lawmakers made it illegal for drivers younger than 18 to use any type of cell phone or text-messaging device. The new law takes restrictions even further by banning all drivers from reading, writing or sending text messages. Base fines will be $20 for the first offense and $50 for each subsequent violation. We live in a changing world and the law needs to keep pace, said Sen. Joe Simitian, D-Palo Alto, who carried Senate Bill 28. Technology is only as good as the judgment we should use. Text-messaging has fast become the communication of choice among young adults. The Nielsen Co., which tracks the industry, has reported that the typical U.S. mobile service subscriber sends and receives more text messages than voice calls. With great fanfare, Democratic presidential nominee Sen. Barack Obama last month used text messages to unveil his running mate, Sen. Joe Biden. Along with the increase in use, accidents  both horrific and minor  are on the rise that are attributed to drivers being distracted by texting. The issue drew national attention this month when it was reported that a Metrolink engineer was text-messaging shortly before authorities said his commuter train ran stop signals and slammed into a freight train in Chatsworth, killing 26, including himself. The California Public Utilities Commission responded by outlawing text-messaging while in control of a train. Text messages were sent and received on the cell phone of a 17-year-old driver moments before her SUV slammed into a pickup, killing five in Rochester, N.Y., in June 2007. In California, a driver confessed that he was text-messaging just before his truck struck and killed a Rocklin police officer northeast of Sacramento in October 2005. Several states already ban texting while driving, and about 20 others are weighing various restrictions. In California, Simitian's legislation drew bipartisan support, but still ran into opposition from Republicans who generally oppose laws that govern personal behavior. They argued that there are many driving distractions, from changing radio stations to smoking. CHP officers can already cite motorists under reckless-driving laws, they said. Where do you draw the line? Assemblyman Chuck DeVore, R-Irvine, asked during a floor debate in June. But Simitian, in an interview yesterday, countered that sometimes the state has to step in and protect the public. Isn't it just common sense? he asked. Unfortunately, common sense isn't all that common. California Highway Patrol spokesman Tom Marshall reported that officers have issued just 155 citations to teen drivers who were illegally texting since that law went into effect in July. Marshall noted that officers had to spot another offense before stopping teen drivers for texting because the law classifies the practice as a secondary offense. Simitian said that his law will change the classification to a primary offense for all ages, allowing the CHP to pull over drivers just for texting. The Insurance Information Institute reports that in 2006, 37 percent of teen drivers said that text-messaging was extremely or very distracting and 19 percent said that having friends in the car was distracting. Separately, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. last year found nearly 40 percent of drivers ages 16 to 30 acknowledged text-messaging while driving. In other action yesterday, Schwarzenegger signed a law barring companies doing business in Sudan from bidding on state contracts. Schwarzenegger said in a statement that the bill sends a message that California will not underwrite the horrors of murder and genocide in Sudan. An estimated 400,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been displaced in the African nation, according to the governor's office. Schwarzenegger also signed two bills in 2006 designed to discourage business investments in Sudan.
