The global economic crisis has helped to stave off an imminent leadership challenge. Jane Merrick and Brian Brady reportRelated ArticlesSearch Search GoIndependent.co.uk WebBookmark &amp;amp; Share'This is the moment to seize. The kaleidoscope has been shaken. The pieces are in flux. Soon they will settle again. Before they do, let us re-order the world around us.'One of Tony Blair's most famous lines, in his post-9/11 speech to the Labour conference seven years ago, could describe the turbulence the party has gone through this summer.This weekend, as Gordon Brown prepares for a decisive conference speech in Manchester, the pieces are suddenly settling into place, and  with the help of Mr Blair  the Labour world is being re-ordered.The Prime Minister has survived a mini-rebellion by MPs demanding a leadership contest and his action on the economy has caused a minor 'bounce' for Labour in an IoS poll today.Yet, after the intense activity of the summer, a powerful alliance of David Miliband and Alan Johnson has emerged and is now the most likely 'plan B', should Mr Brown be ousted from Downing Street.Mr Johnson, favoured by the left as a possible leadership contender, yesterday all but confirmed he would join the Foreign Secretary on a 'dream ticket' in the event of a contest.The move is a blow to senior aides to the Prime Minister, who had their own 'plan B' should their boss be turfed out: to mobilise Brownite support around Mr Johnson and 'stop Miliband' becoming leader.It also alarmed the unions, who will join attempts to stop Mr Blair's former policy chief taking control of the party. They were encouraged by Mr Johnson's silence all summer, which they seized on as evidence he could emerge as a humble consensus candidate to get Labour through to the next election. While ministers believe Mr Brown is safe for at least a week, they remain resigned to the fact that he must go by spring unless he transforms Labour's fortunes.The Glenrothes by-election, expected on 6 November, could trigger at least one resignation from the Cabinet, with one minister telling friends they are poised to step down.Mr Miliband's speech in Manchester tomorrow is emerging as just as important as the Prime Minister's on Tuesday. The Foreign Secretary will have only seven minutes to convince them that, while professing loyalty to Mr Brown, he is the Prime Minister-in-waiting.Yesterday, two lengthy profile interviews, in The Mirror and The Times, portrayed Mr Miliband as an ordinary family man as besotted with his wife Louise and two sons as with the intricacies of policy.Playing down his 'Brains' image in the Times magazine, he said: 'There's not much point being clever if you've got bad judgement. A big heart matters more than a big brain.'Photographs published in the magazine included one of the Foreign Secretary sitting at his laptop in the attic which used to be his childhood bedroom. He and his family now live in the house in Camden where the Milibands grew up. It left the impression among some Westminster observers that he was the 'little boy who never left home'.Mr Johnson turned from leadership contender to kingmaker when he told The Times: 'I couldn't even get deputy leader. That finished the little ambition I had inside me. I'm not interested.' Asked whether he would join the Foreign Secretary on a dream ticket, he said: 'Where he goes in the future is for the future, and I hope he goes a long way because I am a big fan of his.'Mr Miliband called on the party to unite around Mr Brown, but his positioning this weekend, together with Mr Johnson's declaration of support, shows that the Foreign Secretary's leadership bid is ready to be launched when the time comes.Mr Miliband will not wield the axe himself, but there remains the strong probability of cabinet ministers with nothing to lose telling Mr Brown he must step aside.MPs led by the Blairite Siobhain McDonagh and Jack Straw's allies Janet Anderson and George Howarth caused a minor disturbance a week ago when they publicly called for a leadership contest. Yet Downing Street is believed to have been behind their names being forced out into the open a week before the Labour conference  effectively running the plot on behalf of the disorganised rebels.The sense that the dissenting MPs were in disarray was emphasised when Jim Dowd, a former whip under Mr Blair, failed to get into the car sent by GMTV early on Monday morning to kick off day four of the attempted coup. Baroness Margaret McDonagh  Labour general secretary under Mr Blair and sister of Siobhain  was working the telephone to get rebels on to the airwaves, but their hearts didn't seem to be in it by Monday lunchtime.With the stock markets crashing, the Brown bunker decided to pitch the rebels' demands against the backdrop of economic crisis.No 10 also let it be known how Mr Brown intervened to push for the takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB. The strategy has worked, for now. The IoS poll shows that most people believe now is not the time for a debate about the leadership of the Labour Party when Britain is in the grip of an economic crisis.But, despite the attempts by Downing Street to take control, Mr Brown's fate is tied to economic events. He might not survive another stock market crash.At Cabinet last Tuesday ministers struggled to maintain eye contact with the Prime Minister as he said Labour needed to attack the Tories, failing to address his own difficulties.In an interview with the IoS today, Hazel Blears hinted that she could be involved in a delegation of cabinet members telling Mr Brown to go by suggesting there was 'another way through'.'I genuinely think at the moment that if we have a big bloodbath in the Labour Party... I would rather we didn't get into that sort of internecine warfare. If the party can find another way through and face its challenges, it will be in a better place.'Ms Blears also questioned whether Mr Brown understands voters by agreeing that he lacks 'emotional intelligence'.A survey of cabinet ministers by the IoS found that 18 out of 22 publicly insist Mr Brown is the right person to lead Labour to the next election. Four failed to respond: Ms Blears, Jacqui Smith, John Hutton and Ruth Kelly. This is half the number who failed to respond to a similar newspaper survey a week ago, which may provide some comfort to Mr Brown.As ever when the Prime Minister has experienced difficult weeks, the spectre of Tony Blair returned to the scene. He appeared on US comedian Jon Stewart's Daily Show to defend his friendship with George Bush, but in an interview with the BBC on Friday, claimed he didn't want to 'get involved' in commenting on British politics.'It's tough enough without me making it more difficult for the person involved,' he added.Mr Blair, who wanted Mr Miliband to run against Mr Brown in 2007, has advised the Foreign Secretary on his positioning for the leadership.Aware that Mr Miliband was criticised by supporters for ducking a contest a year ago, Mr Blair privately told his friend to 'go for it' before he wrote his inflammatory article in The Guardian at the end of July.Allies of Mr Brown were furious when the Prime Minister and his entourage arrived in Beijing for the closing ceremony of the Olympic Games last month and the place was 'overtaken by Blairites'.London House, the official outpost in Beijing for the 2012 Games, became a hive of networking for the Blair court in exile. Mr Blair and his family had been in the city for days before the PM turned up, and mingled at glamorous parties at London House with Tessa Jowell, the Olympics minister and a close friend of the former Prime Minister, who was rumoured to be privately drumming up support for Mr Miliband among MPs.While Mr Miliband denies plotting or preparing a leadership bid, in the eyes of the Brown camp the plot to unseat the leader was well under way.Back in Britain, Downing Street appears to have gone into full attack mode, flushing out MPs who were privately asking for a leadership contest and undermining Mr Brown's enemies.The reluctant rebellion failed to take off because the timing was driven by No 10. No cabinet minister publicly joined the revolt, although Blairites James Purnell and John Hutton refused to condemn their actions. They are joined by Ms Blears today, who describes the plotters as 'my friends' who are 'passionate' about the future of the Labour Party.For Mr Brown's allies, they must find a 'Plan C' to stop Mr Miliband inheriting the Labour leadership by default if the Prime Minister is toppled. Ed Balls is the likely Brownite candidate, and has been quietly accruing supporters for a future contest.The Foreign Secretary may be the little boy in his attic room, but with a likely running mate in Mr Johnson, can anyone stop Miliband?So what can they do for me?Why should people who've given up on party politics care about Labour? Cole Moreton finds out...Harry Potter's creator might still see Gordon as a hero, but his house elves are revolting. Meanwhile, the rest of the country thinks all MPs are a bunch of Muggles.The biggest force at the next election will be the millions who are totally fed up with party politics, who care about issues but don't trust politicians. As Labour holds its conference, we are entitled to ask: who the Hagrid are you, and what can you do for me?The leaderOnce upon a time there was a moody, magnificent Scot who guided Britain through a time of prosperity and gave out lots of gold to the poor. His wicked king made him wait and wait to rule, but in the end he took over. Riding high in the opinion polls, he called a snap election and won by a mile. The end. Almost. Except for the last bit.Gordon's enemies tell a different story: they say his Iron Chancellor mask fell off to reveal a dithering spendthrift with no idea how to lead. People outside politics may say it's insane to react to an economic meltdown by tearing your leader to shreds. But who is he? A serious 57-year-old son of the m...
