A year is not long in banking. It was only 12 months ago I was discussing the demise of Northern Rock with my fellow graduates over an overpriced beer in Canary Wharf. My career in the financial sector had started with a bang and has just ended with an implosion; Lehman Brothers - the invincible - is going under, and it is taking me down with it.I remember beaming on my first Monday as we were taken for drinks and a hefty tab was placed behind the bar. Times were good. Even with the mild irritation of a downturn in the markets in late 2007, I was still earning a substantial salary and received my year-end bonus. Most importantly I was on a career ladder, and an impressive one. Since Christmas, my belief in the firm never faltered. In fact, as I became more initiated into the culture, the invincibility of the firm only grew stronger in my head. Bear Stearns had lacked liquidity, and had been punished for it. I knew that was never going to be an issue for us - management told us so repeatedly. A few months into the job, a colleague took me down to the car park under our offices. His message was clear: keep your head down, and 10 to 15 years from now you can have your own Ferrari to park in your own Lehman parking space.As late as June, the operations department was categorically told we would receive a bonus at the end of this year. The Lehman model was working and the only reason our share price was suffering was some unscrupulous traders short-selling our stock and spreading vicious rumours. This unshakeable belief was reinforced when our stock price took a nosedive earlier this year, only for it to recover almost all its losses within days. Numerous memos came straight from the top: our liquidity is strong, our strategy is the right one, our risks are minimised. Over the last fortnight, my confidence began to waver a little, but I almost liked the idea of a takeover. If I lost my job I would get a redundancy package and pick up work elsewhere. But Monday brought an explosion, followed by an implosion. Lehman hadn't been sold. I rushed to work to be told there was a chance we weren't going to get paid. My head began to spin; I had just renewed the contract on my flat and had booked an expensive holiday. I looked up to see people in a state of despair; my situation was bad, but other people's were awful. There were partners to support, kids to feed, bills to pay. I knew couples that both worked at the firm, single mothers going on maternity leave soon, people with promising careers who had stretched their means last summer and now only had negative equity to show for it.Within hours, fear turned to anger. Someone had screwed up, and we weren't getting any answers. Eventually we were all called to a floor high up the building. Finally, an answer: there is no guarantee that you will get paid. The next day, some began the search for jobs. Others sat in silence, hoping that Barclays might still save us. A few walked around the office looking for Lehman branded bags, mugs and pens to sell on eBay. Groups of people flocked to the canteen to spend the money they had left on their internal purchasing cards. I heard of a trader who had upwards of 400 to spend in the few hours he had left. This year's graduate intake were told 'There are no contracts, there is no money, please gather your things and leave.' On Tuesday afternoon, the remaining employees were summoned to a meeting on the sixth floor. The chief administrator from PriceWaterhouseCoopers would be addressing the issue of our outstanding pay. Silence descended as our man - the only guy left in the building still wearing a tie - entered the pit. It was a menacing spectacle as the employees gathered around him. He spoke quietly and told us we were likely to be paid but probably not until the last day of the month. A predictable tactic. Even if they could pay us on Friday, why would they? PwC need people to stay and help wind up positions. As he finished speaking, the questions began. A man asked who would be paying his large mortgage payment, due to leave his account next Tuesday. Another wanted to know about childcare provision. After offering some brief answers, the speakers left. The crowd dispersed. It was then I realised how many lives had been screwed by the greed of a few.
