Stocks fluctuate as investors battle uncertainty Stocks fluctuate as investors battle economic uncertainty; Bank of America report boosts banks Sara Lepro, AP Business Writer Monday March 9, 2009, 12:02 pm EDT NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street struggled to find a direction Monday as investors were torn between hopes for the financial sector and pessimism about the broader economy's slide. AP - Joseph Mastrolia, left, of LaBranche &amp; Co. and Todd Ingrilli of ICAP Corp. work on the floor of ... Bank and energy stocks were higher, while many other industries, including consumer staples, were lower. Financial stocks rallied on a news report that Bank of America Corp. could raise capital in the private sector. Shares of major banks have been pummeled to multiyear lows amid growing concern that they don't have enough cash to cover future losses despite multiple government rescues. "Any bank right now that can raise money in the private sector, that is a major positive for the market," said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford. "It's another way to raise capital rather than the government infusing capital into the banks." Meanwhile, drugmakers Merck and Schering-Plough announced a $41 billion deal. Merck &amp; Co. has offered Schering-Plough shareholders $10.50 in cash and just over half of one Merck share for each of their shares. The price represents a 34 percent premium to Schering-Plough's closing stock price on Friday. While a combination between the two companies had long been speculated, news of the merger was nonetheless a good sign that big deals can still get done in this environment. There was still downbeat news Monday. Newspaper publisher McClatchy Co. said it plans to eliminate 1,600 jobs, or 15 percent of its work force, as it battles declining advertising revenue. Investors were also mindful of remarks from billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who said during an appearance on CNBC that the economy has "fallen off a cliff" over the past six months. He noted that consumers have changed their habits in remarkable ways. In midday trading, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 24.22, or 0.4 percent, to 6,602.72. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index slipped 0.05, or 0.01 percent, to 683.33, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 8.08, or 0.6 percent, to 1,285.77.
