 But the S&amp;P could keep falling.       Explanation on the Dow vs. S&amp;P     IP: 67.182.144.203    Posted on March 7, 2009 at 01:58:25 AM by Alpo      The DJIA is a "price-weighted" index. There are 30 stocks, and a single or multi-point move in any one of them is equal to any other. Example: (I'm not looking up market caps at 11 o'clock on a Friday night) Company X is a $100 billion company and Company Y is a $10 billion company. On Monday, one goes up 1 pt. and one goes down 1 pt. Assume all other stocks are flat. The Dow goes nowhere, with the two stock movements offsetting the other despite the disparity in the size of each company.     At the same time, both companies are in the S&amp;P 500. The 1 pt. move in Company X increases the market cap from $100b to $103b. The 1 pt. move in Company Y decreases the market cap from $10b to $9.5b. Because X was a bigger than Y, the market goes up based on the net increase of $2.5 billion despite the seemingly proportionate moves between the two companies. This is a "cap-weighted" index rather than a price-weighted one -- bigger caps influence the market more, in both directions.     My earlier thought was that the obvious proble areas in the Dow -- autos, financials, industrials -- have already been hammeered. (kinda lime me right now) The energy stocks, (XOM, CVX) the consumer staples (PG) the discounters (however you want to look at them) like McDonalds and Wal-MArt ,companies like 3M etc are much tougher nuts to crak than C or GM. Because C only has 1 pt. of downside remaining, the impact ot the DJIA is minimal -- it can't go negative. Alcoa has a max of 5 pts. of downside hre. GM 1.5 or whatever. To push the Dow substnatially lower, you've got to go after teh stocks that still have a "price" -- IBM, Exxon, McDonalds, etc. The fundamentals for those businesses are substantially differnt (and better, obvi) than those of the financials, autos, etc. Thus my conclusion that the next 50% that would take us to 3-4000 will be much more difficult than the prev 50% b/c you're dealing with completely different companies and fundamentals now.     None of this is to say we can't go lower or the bottom is in. Just saying that it will be tougher to push the Dow down another 20% from here relative to the last. It will take a lot more firepower to push the price of Coke lower than it did Bank of America IMO b/c the fundies are so very differnt.     Source:    http://b5.boards2go.com/boards/board.cgi?action=read&amp;id=1236409105&amp;user=mabee      BTW,  he doesn't explain, but the reason why the one DOW company didn't move the market ten times as much as the other would simply be the number of shares outstanding. 
