       Re: Ross Healy is currently on BNN and is more gloomy than ever- or is he being realistic   http://www.investorvillage.com/groups.asp?mb=6781&amp;mn=41901&amp;pt=msg&amp;mid=6817705    Lets face it folks - this market continues to get worse and worse as does the economic backdrop and unless the market very quickly rights itself, you can expect much much lower levels based upon historical precedents which are very limited but also very similar to what is taking place in the markets today - those being the Japanese collapse (90%) and the 29-32 collapse (also 90%). A 90% collapse in the Dow and S+P would result in levels of apprx 1500 on the Dow and 150 on the S+P. A similar figure for the TSX would be 1500. I have long held a target in the 4-6 range, being 400-600 on the S+P and 4000-6000 on the Dow and TSX but the continued collapse in virtually every US market icon with still not so much as a half decent clearing rally and the fact that the US markets are actually now worse off in equivalent terms than they were in the 1929-32 crash leads me to conclude that without a rapid and decisive change in direction, the markets are at a very much increased risk of the worst case sceanario meltdown.    Some might say there is no way the markets can go this low and to this I would reply - why not? Because something is down has nothing to do with the question of whether it can go down even more. Tell that to shareholders of Citygroup, Bank of America, AIG, Dow Chemical, GE, Prudential Insurance, Hartford Insurance, Metropolitan Life, Ford, Chrysler, GM, International Paper, Alcoa, American Express, JP Morgan, etc - you get the picture of course - the icons of American finance and industry and being shot left right and center with only a handful including interestingly enough the oil companies and Walmart and a few technology names which themselves have been hit but not as hard as the others.     Stock market collapses of the magnitude we have thus far seen, coupled with the collapse of the US housing industry and the after effects of these two collapses upon the financial infrastructure of the country and it's citizens has to have a profound impact on the economy which has not yet shown up in the statistics in terms of GDP but is showing up in a veiled fashion in the continuous barrage of statistics printing as the worst ever or the worst in a generation or the worst since records began etc.    There is also a very severe psychological impact of the twin collapses of the stock market and housing industry in the US in particular in terms of the wealth destruction of citizens who make up 2/3rds of the GDP of the North American economies. I am seeing this more and more among my own friends, most of whom are not directly connected to the stock market except through retirement or company pension plans.    And finally, in my own work in the stock market, I have continually observed in one indicator after another that levels have gone off the charts in terms in terms of historical precedent such that none of the historical precedents of sentiment or psychology have had any impact at all on the performance of the markets.    I am not saying we are going to have a depression nor am I predicting that the markets are heading to the levels noted above but I am saying that absent a major rally, very soon, the markets are likely to collapse in upon themselves and then those levels mentioned will not seem very far fetched at all. Be mindful of the fact that historic market collapses have occured during oversold, not overbought, markets. The current market is as oversold as it has ever been and is in real danger of collapsing if it does not bottom immediately.  
