Many of my clients and friends have been abit anxious and wondering if the US financial market meltdown is going to extend to Asia in particular Malaysia. This is in light of the bailout of financial/insurance biggie AIG(AIA-insurance arm). Many policy holders in HK and Spore have been lining up to surrender their AIA policies fearing the premiums they have been paying all this while would go up in smoke. Eventhough the AIA management has come out with statements stating their assets are more than enough to support their commitments to policyholders, nevertheless, this did not allay their fears. Personally, as far as Life insurers are concerned, I can tell you this is a cash rich business. The only concern is the percentage of funds they allocate to invest in equities, securities or bonds and where this alloction is invested in. If in the case of AIA, what is the exposure thru their parent arm(AIG in this case)?? Needless to say, any fund house who has exposure to the US sub prime issue and mortgage related instruments, then their investments would definitely be affected.In Malaysia, Life insurers can only invest 5% in foreign tools/markets so our exposure is minimal. Of course , earnings are affected  if our equity market is not performing well. However we have gone thru worse financial times especially in 1997 so we should be able to tide over this coming period. Dividends on life policies may be not be as attractive but this is no reason to surrender the policy as all life insurers have enough in cash reserve to meet any obligation and payouts.All insurance policies underwritten are direct obligations of a regulated business, governed by regulatory and capital requirements as stipulated by the Insurance Act and under the tight surveillance of the Bank Negara Malaysia.As with what happened in 1997, the worse case scenario would be policyholders will have to pay additional years of premiums for participating policies if they wish to execise the automatic premium non-forfeiture loans for the balance of the policy period.  Whatever the concern, it will be advisable to contact your respective servicing agents  or the insurer's head office for further clarifications.
