     AIG employees were playing with fire. Not all AIG employees. Not the people whoknew about Insurance. No, theburning bozos were people who manifestly did not know about Insurance. They knew about greed. They lit credit default swaps that in reality are Insurance but that Insurance Regulators will not interfere with(because they do not understand these products, either).See Edmund L. Andrews, Michael J. de la Merced, and Mary Willliams Walsh, &amp;quot;Fed in $85 Billion Bailout Plan ofFaltering Insurance Giant&amp;quot; p. A1, col. 6 (New York Times Nat'l Ed., Wed., September 17, 2008). And these particularAIG employees were so arrogant that they never understood the risks of danger to their Company,its Shareholders andits Policyholders. They worked primarily in AIG's London-headquartered &amp;quot;financial products group,&amp;quot; not in any of the many AIG Insurance groups. These people &amp;quot;sold credit-default swaps, complex financial contracts allowing buyers to insure securities backed by mortgages.&amp;quot; Jonathan D. Glater, &amp;quot;A.I.G. is Still Profitable, With a Wide Array of Enterprises&amp;quot; p. C1, col. 2 (New York Times Nat'l Ed., Wed., September 17, 2008), published Online with added byline for Heather Timmons. [Emphasis added.] AIG got a loan from theunelected officialsof the current regime who pledged the full faith and credit of the American Taxpayers. AIGgot this loan because of AIG's &amp;quot;financial insurance&amp;quot; operations, &amp;quot;which effectively requires [that] it cover losses suffered by other institutions in the instance ofdefaults of securities that they have purchased. That meansA.I.G. is potentially on the hook for securities that were onceconsideredsafe.&amp;quot; Andrews, de la Merced &amp;amp; Walsh, supra. Simply put, the Federal officials opted tobail AIG out because they recognized&amp;quot;how much fear remains about thedestructive potential of the complex financial instruments, like credit default swaps, that broughtA.I.G. to its knees.&amp;quot; Id. It is past time for Insurance Regulators to regulate. Credit default swaps are thinly disguised, poorly concealed Insurance. Now is the time to regulate these weapons of toxic destruction, before they regulate us who never made a cent from them and who are now called upon to pay on account of them. Please Read The Disclaimer.      
