Thought I'd give my 2 cents on what's going on in the financial markets. But of course to discuss the whole thing would require a book length posting, so I will just stick to the AIG situation.Bear in mind, that my opinion is worth exactly what you are paying for it.Parenthetical to this discussion, there are millions of people in the U.S. who own various insurance or annuity products with AIG subsidiaries. No individual with an AIG insurance productis or was ever at risk oflosing their money.The assets and capital backing these contractsis not available to the AIG holding company and by statute can only be used to pay these insurance obligations. Even if AIG had declared bankruptcy, contract holders were safe, and in fact the subsidiaries would have continued conducting business as usual. AIG is a huge company - at one time the biggest insurer in the world,with fingers in many countries (over 100)andmany different markets. And most of these businesses are very profitable. Their huge losses stem fromcredit default swaps (CDS's), and their inability to borrow money to finance their short term cash needs. Theyown loads of good assets, and many good subsidiary companies, but they were unable to borrow against those assets to pay their short term obligations.So now the company has essentially been taken over by the federal government, and byextension, the taxpayer. U.S. to Take Over AIG in $85 Billion Bailout; Central Banks Inject Cash as Credit Dries Up - WSJ.comThe U.S. negotiators drove a hard bargain. Under terms hammered out Tuesday night, the Fed will lend up to $85 billion to AIG, and the U.S. government will effectively get a 79.9% equity stake in the insurer in the form of warrants called equity participation notes. The two-year loan will carry an interest rate of Libor plus 8.5 percentage points. (Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is a common short-term lending benchmark.)The loan is secured by AIG's assets, including its profitable insurance businesses, giving the Fed some protection even if markets continue to sink. And if AIG rebounds, taxpayers could reap a big profit through the government's equity stake."This loan will facilitate a process under which AIG will sell certain of its businesses in an orderly manner, with the least possible disruption to the overall economy," the Fed said in a statement.It puts the government in control of a private insurer -- a historic development, particularly considering that AIG isn't directly regulated by the federal government. The Fed took the highly unusual step using legal authority granted in the Federal Reserve Act, which allows it to lend to nonbanks under "unusual and exigent" circumstances, something it invoked when Bear Stearns Cos. was rescued in March.This is probably going to turn out to be a good deal for taxpayers - abig two year interest rate and 79.9% ownership in a huge and mostly very profitable international insurer. Over the next several years parts of AIG will be sold off to pay for the losses and repay the taxpayer. The big losers are stockholders of AIG. Not only is the stock trading at around $2 a share, their ownership has now been diluted by the government taking 80% ownership in the Company. The owners (stockholders) are down the drain as far as their AIG holdings. And the many mutual funds holding AIG (almost all U.S. stock funds would own at least some stock) are also takingthe hit.While this is an unsettling situation, the intermediate and long term outlook is OK for everyone else. Obviously the federal reserve and treasury department viewed a government conservatorship (takeover) to be the lesser of two evils, compared to an AIG bankruptcy and then an effort to do an orderly unwind of AIG's successful subsidiaries while satisfying their debts.
