I recently bought an AIA Shield plan for my daughter and do not intend to do anything for the time being. Some of you may have existing AIA policies in place. What should you do? If you have been reading the news, the near-collapse of AIG and its rescue by the US Federal Reserve using taxpayers monies have resulted in a number of AIA policyholders surrendering their policies because they are afraid that they will lose all their monies. The Monetary Authority of Singapore has come out to reassure the public that this is not the case as AIA has sufficient assets to meet its AIA liabilities. AIA is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and their public response is asfollows: &amp;#8220;MAS has received queries from the public on the regulatory requirements which insurance companies have to meet, in particular, AIA Singapore. As with all insurance companies in Singapore, AIA is required under the Insurance Act to maintain statutory insurance funds, including an investment-linked fund. These funds are segregated from its head office and other shareholders funds. Within these insurance funds, AIA must maintain sufficient assets to meet all its liabilities to policyholders, which include participating policies and investment-linked policies. The value of these assets is not linked to AIA&amp;#8217;s or AIGs financial condition, but like all investments, their value may be affected by general market conditions. MAS requires all insurance companies in Singapore to manage their investment risks carefully and we are monitoring the situation closely. There are also queries on whether the financial condition of AIG would have an impact on AIA. AIA currently has sufficient assets in its insurance funds to meet its liabilities to policyholders. Policyholders should, therefore, not act hastily to terminate their insurance policies with AIA as they may suffer losses from the premature termination and lose the insurance protection they may need. &amp;#8220; In short, if you have any AIA policy, take three cleansing deep breaths, read and re-read the MAS&amp;#8217;s press release and continue with your life. If you are uncomfortable, then avoid buying new policies from AIA for the time being. Be well and prosper. Related articles by Zemanta  Feds Announce $85 Billion Bailout Of AIG Why AIG matters to you The FedRes Insures the Insurance Company  
