  I posted this on Women in Red, hoping for advice here too:      Unfortunately, when I divorced my home was forclosed on and I elected to file bankruptcy. I filed in June 08, was discharged in July 08. I did include a few thousand incredit card debt.      Two of my cards were Bank of America and Discover. At the time I filed, Discover was in collection, so I filed with the collection agency. Bank of America was not, so I filed with Bank of America.      I did have a bankruptcy atty at the time, but he has basically skipped town and there are all kinds of complaints over the internet about him. He is unreachable to assist with the following problem:      Both of those debt amounts are showing on my credit report. I called and briefly got the run-around with Discover...I'll call again to investigate further later. I decided to tackle the larget item first, the Bank of America balance.       Bank of America sold my debt to a third party ONE DAY before they got my bankruptcy filing notice. They "claim" they forwarded the information on to the third party, West Asset management. Mind you, I couldn't have alerted West Asset of bankruptcy, because I didn't know the debt was sold (the day prior supposedly.) Bank of America shows the balance was sold on my report- fine. But now West Asset is on my report for the entire debt. They are giving me a hard time about removing it. I'll talk to one person over there, and they'll say that they reported it to the agency to get remove the debt. I have filed dispute with the credit agency but am waiting to hear back. I started to relax, but then I got a call back from a previous person I had left a message with at West Asset...saying they weren't put on notice for the bankruptcy, and since they weren't, I still owe the balance.      This balance was included on my bankruptcy, period. There is no way I could have known West Asset got my debt one day before Bank of America received notice of my filing. Is this solvable? I am trying to hard to make good credit choices now...please tell me I'm not stuck with this debt (most of which was really my ex-husband's fault, he was a "big spender", get bored and go shopping on the card kinda guy while I'm at work (he worked evenings), but that's neither here nor there).      I get the impression the Discover debt is a similar situation, but I'm so overwhelmed right now I'm just trying to tackle the largest first. I'm so panicked...can they get away with this? What avenues can I take to get help?  
