All the same ratos that had allowed the issuers of synthetic (unbacked) credit to go to extreme leverages (from 25:1 for institutions such as Bank of America and Citygroup and up to 99:1 for Fannie and Freddie) are now working in reverse, evaporating credit much faster that it could be replenished. The money supply could double or tripple, yet it would still account only for a small portion of the value depreciation in real estate, bond markets and other sectors. The net of all the money and credit generation against evaporation is still a negative, which means deflation.  For every real dollar that gets wiped out, the bank has to track all of the fictional dollars it lent out and either call in the loans, or write off the losses. Reserve requirements that used to be fulfilled with highly liquid class 1 and class 2 assets (real estate) are now getting clobbered as banks refusing to admit losses, move the assets into hidden class 3 (where they supposedly hold the investment while it is appreciating in value). All banks are inherintly insolvent. Get this through your heads, people - all of them. Every single one. The last Swiss bank that was advertized as "non-leveraged" gave into temptation of credit expansion in 2006 to preserve its market share and competitiveness. After that point there was not a single solvent bank left in the world. None of them can honor their obligations and all of them would fail.   No organization in the US deserves the status of "too big to fail". If the synthetic steroid credit wasn't pumping up our economy, there wouldn't be any "too big to fail" bubble organizations.   Now our junky is looking for a quick fix - another hit of the bailout. Well, it ain't cure - it's more of the same disease that got us to where we are. Debts have 3 paths - they can be honored, written off (admitted as losses) or a combination of both (as a result of bankruptcy filing). There is more debt than there is money, so we know we only have options 2 and 3 left. Not everyone can be saved, and not everyone will be. Those that chose to expand modestly without relying on credit don't need rescuing, yet they're being punished the most through bailout money extortion.
