          &lt;RANT&gt;  So I have a Bank of America Credit Card, that I get point on. Every couple months or so I look at the on-line catalog to see if there is anything I want. I soon figure out that at 25,000 points I can cash it in for CASH at $1 for every 100 points. Value wise this seems to be the best value, since gift cards offer $1 for more than 100 points, and then they are only good at that store, plus looking up many of the items availabe for points, it seems it would be cheeper to wait get the $250 for 25000 points and then buy it.  I got my check Monday. Today I took it to a Bank of America store (they don't use the term branch anymore) and tried to cash it.   No can do.   Turns out the check from Bank of America Credit Cards is not the same as Bank of America that has stores in my neigborhood. Since Bank of America Credit Cards has no branches or Stores or customer accessable contact points, the only way I can cash this check, is to deposit it in my checking account.  So why not just deposit it? Well I will, but why I have to!? It is drawn from a Bank of America subcompany. Don't they trust the sister company?! That and my checking account is with a small credit union that has only a couple branhes. I am going to have to mail it to them, because I am not going to take a day off from work to deposit it. ...  - hrse   Date: 1/8/2009 4:41:38 PM   Number: 3228  In the Spring of 1972 I had a $500 check drawn on a Merrill Lynch Bank of American account at the Bank of America Wall Street Branch. I took the five hundred dollar check to the Ridgewood Bank of America Branch. The Branch manager would NOT CASH the Merrill Lynch check drawn on the Bank of America Wall Street Branch. I had my passport for identification as well as Drivers Lisc., DD214, and other papers.  Ever since Spring 1972  I HAVE ALWAYS REFUSED to do ANY BUSINESS with Bank of America . For any of my Business BAC "Sleeps with Fishes" -  The Godfather .  I had Merrill Lynch wire the funds to my Bank account at First Hawaiian Bank in Honolulu, Hawaii. Then cashed a check for $500 drawn on First Hawaiian Bank at CitiBank with no problem at all.  Score: CitiBank 1 Bank of America 0 - forever.  Kahuna, CFA                  
