  In my life time I have done a lot of stuff when it came to credit that I found later I would pay dearly for. At one time both Raymond and I had a pretty high FICO score mine was 825 and Raymond's was like 810.    When we bought our old house I bought it cheap dirt cheap and it took me four long hard dirty months to make it livable. In that time I charged up every credit line I had to the max. Then at the end after it was all fixed and livable, I went and applied for a HELC loan. We got it. Since I had maxed out the credit cards fixing it I did not get a great interest rate on the house. 7.9 not good. You see our FICO score had went down to 710-715 in 6 months. Another thing when I went to get homeowners that was jacked up too for the same reason. Well the house bills were paid off. In fact they appraised the house for 72.000. The two loans I had on the house only came to around 55,000.I needed around 30,000 to clean up my mess. But what we didn't know was the bank that gave us the HELC had put two different amounts into our credit report since they had raised the value of the house after the appraisal So it looked like we owed around 100,000 instead of 52,000 unless someone really studied the report carefully..     The next year after the other house wassettled and doing pretty well and we thought we had a buyer for it. We bought this house we now live in. I was able to get a lower interest rate on this house. 6.25. When our credit report came back it said that we were fine but we had to large of credit limit for our income. By then our FICO score was back up to around 725-750 At the timeI only had 1500.00 in credit card debt a balance left over from the move back to Kentucky from North Carolina. 6 months later another bank offered us 4.9 interest for a 30 years fixedand we refinanced this house. Dropping the PMI insurance and the lower interest rate made our payments go down by around 125.00 a month.    During the process of refinancing this house I got to talking to the loan manager He advised me that it would be a good thing to close some of the really old large limit cards we never used and some of the smaller cards and get us from having a credit line of around 225,000 down to around 100,000 This he said would make our report look much better. He said that our limit should not be more then 3 times our income a year. Then all this stuff with the other house happened and I just let it go for a while. The way things were going for a while I needed all the credit limit we had built up over the years to save both houses.     After Laurie moved in and I knew I had income coming in on the other house I went looking for cheaper insurance on that house. I had been paying 875.00 a year on the building. After running my credit I was quoted a payment of 385.00 a year on the same house FICO score was coming up.     We got a copy of our credit report and started really looking at it We found the bank mistake and ask them several times to correct it To this day it is not corrected but that is ok. The HELC is paid off. In the process of buying this house they rewrote the whole loan on the other house. To make it one mortgage instead of two and gave me half the down payment on this house using the sales contract on the other house as proof that we would have the money to pay it off. While this was going on the bank again wrote us a letter saying that our credit limit was to high for our income. Following the advice of the loan manage,one day we sat down and started calling people to cancel cards and close accounts.. First we did all the little ones Lowes, Home depot, Lane Bryant, King Size, Blair. Then we went to a couple of the smaller limit bank cards Junper, Discover Card, Bank of America,Wachovia, Anythingthat was less then 10,000 limit. We called Citi and was going toclose two of those. The company closed them butput the credit limit on to the two we were keeping open. There was a really old PNC we had that had a yearly fee on itwith a 35,000 limit and we closed that because of the fee.    Now we had lowered our credit limits down to around 125,000. which was a little overthree times our income a year.At this point we did owe on 6 cards and 5 of themwas pretty much sitting at 70% or higher in some cases. Real bad thing we were doing. Our score went down again. This time even lower then before. It barely was on 700-710.    In the last year I have been watching a lot of Carmen and Suzi and even old Dave a little and Carmen and Suzi agree that 35% of the limit on a card is good so that has been my aim. Which I am happy to report is at that point as of this month. I wish I had known of Carmen because I would not have closed all those accounts but she wasn't on TV then. Well the pass is the pass right can't redo it. Our score I just checked it this month is back up to 780-775 not in the 800's yet but close. It has taken it over a year to climb back that high.    Carmen says don't close old cards if someone tells you that youhave to much of credit limit just call the company and have it lowered. I have made a new rule in this house. Get out of debt. Take the cards and lock them up in a box somewhere not to be used and leave the rest alone. What is working don't mess with it.    Maybe someone will learn by my silly credit mistakes and save their selves a lot trouble.    Mary Ann                                      
