 Gordon I can sympathise with you as we are in a similar situation.      Over the years I have got myself into trouble through gambling, which is still a problem now, failed relationship with ex-fianc and the recent obsession with travelling overseas when I wasnt working and could not afford to pay for the travel. I kept getting one credit card after another and just this year alone I have added 3 new credit cards to the collection, and increased the credit limit on others, although I have been able to get rid of the Earth card and the high debt associated with it. I am not going to mention figures but the number of credit cards I have in my possession is greater than yours and my debt is higher.      It has gotten to the point where I have to work in Brisbane, whilst still living in Sydney, but even this is not helping as my pay does not cover the cost of rent, cost of commuting, everyday expenses and the minimum monthly repayment on my credit cards. Most months I make the minimum payment on one card then withdraw some of the money to pay the minimum payment on another card and so on.      I was lucky enough recently with some balance transfers from Amex that have reduced a fair amount of the interest to be paid every month but Amex no longer offers this feature. I am also able to utilise balance transfers on lower interest rates from CBA low rate MasterCard and Visa and HSBC low rate MasterCard.      When I have some spare money available, better if it is ~$5,000, I do a balance transfer from Bank West MasterCard to CBA MasterCard and then a balance transfer from CBA MasterCard to HSBC MasterCard and then a balance transfer from HSBC MasterCard to CBA Visa and then a balance transfer from CBA Visa to either Bank West MasterCard or Citibank Ready credit. This helps to reduce the interest rate as I am only paying 5.99% with CBA for 5 months and 6.99% with HSBC for 6 months on the ~$5,000. When the low interest period is over I repeat the exercise. It is not a perfect plan but it has helped to reduce the interest every month.       I have postponed any overseas travel indefinitely although I will keep some of my luxuries and continue to commute each week if only to maintain some of my sanity. I only use the Amex Gold credit card, for general expenses, and the Wizard MasterCard for cash advances when overseas. The other credit cards are just used to juggle the balance transfers. I am also trying to pay off the credit cards with the highest minimum payments each month and also the credit cards with the highest interest rates. If I reduce the minimum monthly repayment then I can pay off more of the principal rather than continue to pay interest only. And then by reducing the principal I will have a little more money to use for balance transfers and hopefully reduce overall credit card debt.      I have a spreadsheet with the position of each credit card at any point in time. How much I owe, interest rates, projected interest every month, projected minimum monthly payment every month etc. If I stick to the plan I can see when each of the cards will be paid off. The road ahead is not easy in fact it is very difficult. I dont know how long I will last and there are many hurdles and temptations, like gambling, along the way.      I am lucky in a way in that I have investment properties, yes with mortgage but the rent covers repayments, modest share portfolio and cash reserves. My parents keep telling me to come back home to Sydney, sell one of the investment properties and pay off credit cards and have a break from work. I can lead a comfortable lifestyle but it would mean no luxuries or travel overseas. But then there is no guarantee that I will not get into debt again. My thoughts at the moment are stay in debt to prevent getting into more debt. Does that make sense? It sort of makes sense to me.      I am not looking for sympathy or solutions to my credit card debt. I got myself into this mess and I will get myself out of it but thankfully I do not need to resort to bankruptcy. Good luck to all of us. 
