 Hehe, personally I think I really did turn my SSBB review from my personal opinions, into a pseudo-user review, mainly describing things about the game instead of going in-depth on what I thought about each thing.    I tried to cut back in my  latest review , and even left out a few things, didn&amp;#039;t go into too much detail on an aspect or two, etc. Hopefully people enjoyed that one a little more.    Long reviews are what I prefer to read really, as long as it flows nicely. I don&amp;#039;t read many books, so it is always nice to come across a pretty long, very well written review. I would like to know almost as much as I possibly can about the game, without spoiling too much, when I&amp;#039;m done reading a review. Of course it has to be an interesting read though. Short reviews can be helpful though. What I like to do to try to help out people that don&amp;#039;t have much time to read a large review, or cba to do it, is sum the main aspects of the game up at the end. I don&amp;#039;t think I did this very well in my SSBB review, but I think I did pretty decent in my Star Wars: The Force Unleashed one.    quote  Chad summing up the aspects of the game, as well as the review in his Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Review    Final Scores   Gameplay:  4.5 - The gameplay is fun and addicting. The moves you can do, as well as the places you will go are just amazing.   Graphics: 4.8  - On an HD television at least, the graphics were amazing, almost life-like.   Storyline: 4.4  - The story was great. It bridged the gap between episodes three and four quite nicely I thought.   Force Powers/Fighting Abilities: 4.5  - Well, this is the Force Unleashed, and I do think that the force powers were great. Though I personally would have loved to see some others involved such as Force Levitation.   Enemies/Bosses: 3.5  - Some were too easy or too hard. There was a diverse group of enemies, as well as a variation in bosses. However the AI of the enemies was horrible way too often.   Lasting Value: 1.5  - After beating it, you&amp;#039;ll honestly rarely want to pick it up again.  In the end, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a very good game. It is pretty well put together and has a high fun-factor. Unfortunately a few annoying tid-bits are involved, but other than that, and after you beat it, it isn&amp;#039;t one of those games that you&amp;#039;ll want to pick-up and play again over and over. However, because it is pretty short, and so you don&amp;#039;t have to spend a whole lot more money, I would highly recommend you renting this game if you are into either adventure games, or are a fan of the Star Wars series!  I think that provides enough information to a reader who knows almost nothing about the game, but doesn&amp;#039;t have a lot of time. Of course if they want to see my whole opinion of those aspects, they can read that part in the review.     
