ZURICH, Switzerland &amp; NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--  Announcement according to  15 WpHG:  Disclosure announcement transmitted by Business Wire.  The issuer is responsible for the content of this announcement.  Keyword: Merger/Acquisition  The Equities business of UBS Investment Bank announced today that it has entered into a binding agreement to purchase the commodity index business of AIG Financial Products Corp, including AIGs rights to the DJ-AIG Commodity Index. This commodity index business is comprised of a product platform of commodity index swaps and funded notes based on the benchmark Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index (DJ-AIGCI).  The purchase price for the transaction is $15 million, payable upon closing, and additional payments of up to $135 million over the following 18 months based upon future earnings of the purchased business. The closing is subject to a number of regulatory and other conditions. No assurances can be given that any such conditions will be satisfied.  About UBS  UBS is one of the worlds leading financial firms, serving a discerning international client base. UBS is a leading global wealth manager, a leading global investment banking and securities firm, and one of the largest global asset managers. In Switzerland, UBS is the market leader in retail and commercial banking.  UBS is present in all major financial centers worldwide. It has offices in over 50 countries, with about 37% of its employees working in the Americas, 34% in Switzerland, 16% in the rest of Europe and 13% in Asia Pacific. UBS employs more than 75,000 people around the world. Its shares are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE).  About AIG  American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.  
