NEW YORK, Jan. 14 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- XL Insurance, the global insurance operations of XL Capital Ltd (XL), today named Robert Finelli as its Energy Underwriting Manager in its Property group for the Americas.  According to John Gallagher, XL Insurance's Chief Underwriting Officer for Global Property: 'XL Insurance's reputation and experience in handling complicated industrial risks, like those faced by energy businesses, is well known. That reputation is further enhanced when we add someone of Bob's caliber to our Property underwriting team. We continue to attract the industry's top talent, which builds on our depth of underwriting expertise and industry knowledge.' Mr. Finelli joins XL Insurance from Arch Insurance Group where he was Senior Vice President for Technical Risk and managed day-to-day operations for a book of business which included oil and gas, power generation, process industries, chemical and construction risks. Prior to his tenure at Arch, he was Regional Energy Manager of the Latin American Division of AIG. He has also held positions with Protection Mutual Insurance Company and Factory Mutual Company. He has a Mechanical Engineering degree from New Jersey Institute of Technology. 'As underwriters, we aim to provide quality risk management guidance everyday,' said Mr. Finelli. 'I am so pleased to join the ranks of XL Insurance's property underwriting team whose depth of technical underwriting skill and industry knowledge is well known in the industry. XL Insurance delivers a well-rounded risk management approach to help clients protect their property risk and XL Insurance's underwriting prowess is further supported by its risk engineering and claims handling capabilities.' About XL Insurance 'XL Insurance' is the global brand used by member insurers of the XL Capital Ltd (XL) group of companies. More information about XL Insurance is available at http://www.xlinsurance.com. Through its operating subsidiaries, XL Capital Ltd is a leading provider of global insurance and reinsurance coverage and services to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies, and other enterprises on a worldwide basis. More information about XL Capital Ltd is available at www.xlcapital.com.  SOURCE XL Insurance 
