If the results so far are any indication, it could take insurer American International Group a long time to repay the government for its colossal federal bailout.  AIG has been trying to sell pieces of itself to raise cash, and yesterday it announced an agreement to sell a Canadian life insurance subsidiary for about $308 million. That was the fifth sale the company has arranged since its September bailout, and together they would barely put a dent in the company's debt to taxpayers. 'It's been a slow process thus far,' analyst Rob Haines, of the research firm CreditSights, said. 'The deal they did today is really just a drop in the bucket,' and before AIG can inspire confidence in its ability to repay the government, 'we're going to have to see much more than these little drips and drabs,' Haines said. The Federal Reserve has given AIG a $60 billion credit line, and as of last week AIG was using $39.2 billion of that. The company has five years to pay the debt, and in the meantime it will make partial payments with the proceeds from asset sales. The credit line is part of a larger federal rescue package for the insurer worth up to $152.5 billion.  Before the government renegotiated the bailout in November, AIG had two years to pay down a credit line of as much as $85 billion.  The five asset sales announced so far are too few and too small to support any conclusions about AIG's prospects, spokesman David Monfried said. 'The big assets that we'll be bringing to market over the coming months will be commanding in the tens of billions in some cases,' Monfried said. 'We do have a time horizon here that does not require us to move these assets at fire-sale prices, and will not do so,' Monfried said. Market conditions could hardly be less favorable. The most logical buyers for AIG's subsidiaries include other financial services companies, and their stocks have generally taken a beating, which reduces their buying power. In addition, there remains a shortage of financing for mergers and acquisitions.  AIG is in the early stages of gauging potential buyers' interest in larger assets such as life insurance companies based in Hong Kong and Tokyo, Monfried said.  AIG recently received and is now evaluating bids for one of its more valuable assets, an aircraft leasing business known as International Lease Finance Corp., according to a source who spoke on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are confidential.  In December, AIG announced an agreement to sell its subsidiary HSB Group, which insures businesses against equipment breakdown, to a German reinsurance firm for $818 million.  Also last month, AIG agreed to sell AIG Private Bank, a Swiss bank, to an investment company in Abu Dhabi. Based on exchange rates at the time, the deal was worth about $337 million.  In November, AIG announced the sale of its stake in Brazilian bank Unibanco for $820 million.  In addition, AIG has agreed to sell its interest in a joint venture called Tenaska Marketing Ventures, an energy company. The price was not disclosed.  The deal announced yesterday calls for the sale of AIG Life Insurance Co. of Canada to BMO Financial Group, whose operations include retail banking, investment banking and various forms of insurance.  AIG hopes to retain some core operations, such as its U.S. property and casualty business, and stay in business after shedding other assets and repaying the government. 'Our success is going to be determined by how much we get for these assets and how quickly we sell them,' AIG spokesman Nicholas J. Ashooh said.  If AIG can't sell business units quickly enough, their value could deteriorate, according to Moody's Investors Service, the credit-rating agency. The uncertainty surrounding the company could prompt customers to seek insurance elsewhere, Moody's analyst Laura Bazer said.  As part of the bailout, the government assumed about an 80 percent stake in AIG, which means it is in the taxpayers' interest for AIG not just to repay its debt but also to emerge from the process with some of its value intact.
