 The break-up of the highly successful partnership in July, immediately before the Barclays Scottish Open at Loch Lomond, caused the 27 year old golfer from East Kilbride several sleepless nights, given the high esteem in which he holds the Ayrshireman.But Warren felt the need for change after becoming consumed by self-doubt. advertisement 'I was going to the job every day feeling as if I was starting all over again,' he revealed yesterday. 'My short game, everything seemed to be deteriorating. I would feel that I was making progress then I would be back to square one.' Warren turned to another Scottish coach, Ian Rae, in an effort to rediscover the form and consistency that won him the 2006 Scandinavian Masters title and the Johnnie Walker Championship 14 months ago.A fourth-place finish in the KLM Dutch Open convinced Warren that he had done the right thing although he admitted: 'I still have more to do. Last week in the British Masters I played great for two days and was one off the pace at halfway, but my swing went at the weekend. 'However, I have greater consistency in my game and I am playing more and practising more. I have made a lot of changes to my setup because I was so out of line in terms of my balance which led to me developing bad faults.' Warren's relearning process will continue this week at the dunhill links championship where he will attempt to emulate the feats of three of his countrymen by becoming the fourth Scottish winner of the 4m tournament since its inception in 2001. 'The fact that the tournament has a history of home winners is an added incentive,' said Warren. 'It's also a massive tournament in its own right and one I would be proud to have on my CV.' Padraig Harrington, who is chasing a third dunhill links title, appeared to suggest that success in the majors should carry a health warning after complaining yesterday of feeling run down and physically drained.The 37-year-old Irishman's won back-to-back majors in the space of three weeks, when he captured his second Open and followed it up with victory in the US PGA; it has clearly taken its toll. He said: 'I have had two big highs and if you have a high, you have to have a low afterwards. Last year, after the Open I got sick twice because I had really overdone things and I don't want to lose another winter. 'Blood tests I had recently showed that I was low on antioxidants and that my white blood cells were too active. It basically showed that I am fatigued. 'But I would never not be here. I would crawl over to this tournament because it's one of the most enjoyable and one of my best opportunities of the year to win. Maybe I would be better off having more of a break, but I really do enjoy this week playing links golf.' Harrington, who is currently 180,000 ahead of Ryder Cup team-mate Lee Westwood on the money list, is targeting a second Order of Merit title after winning it in 2006. 'I have got two tournaments left, this and the Volvo Masters, and I think I have got to play really well in one of them to win the Order of Merit again,' he said. 'But no matter what happens, in 10 years time I will look back on 2008 and say that I had a great year because I won two majors.'
