Mike Sandlin of Nationwide Insurance spends his lunch hour at a Power Pump class at the Hampton Hill Athletic Club in Columbia.MAKING IT WORKTime it right. Take your lunch break early or late to hit the gym during nonpeak hours. Try 10-11 a.m. or 2-3 p.m. to have more equipment to yourself and less distraction from other gym patrons.Fitness experts advise getting your workout in early in the day.If you dont do it in the morning, it can always be taken away from you, said Anne Wright, owner of Hampton Hill Athletic Club.If you cant work out at lunch but have a hectic family schedule before and after work, try alternating with your partner. One of you can work out in the mornings and the other in the evenings.Get inspired. Diane Kemp, a 39-year-old executive assistant at BlueCross BlueShield in Columbia, participated in a national walk at lunch day last year with a co-worker. The two decided to walk together in the mornings before work two or three times a week. But when her co-worker opted to start exercising at home, Kemp decided to kick her routine up a notch and work toward getting toned.As a mother of two, her mornings and evenings are dedicated to her family. If I (exercise) at lunch, thats my commitment to myself, she said.Kemp works out five days a week during lunch, taking a company-sponsored class twice a week and working on weights and cardio on her own the other three days. This year, she has lost 7 inches from her waist and one pants size.Get a partner. Accountability can play a big part in sticking to a workout routine. Whether you pay a personal trainer or team up with a friend for a lunchtime walk, the other person will serve as a motivator.If they dont have that willpower, they need to find that accountability partner, Kemp said.Another way to stay motivated is to sign up for classes, she said. The same people go and they give you a call if youre not there.Make working out a habit. Thats the one thing I try to tell people  that the hard part is getting started, said Becky Baker, who works out at the Nelson Mullins employee gym. But once you get started and keep at it, it becomes habit. You just have to stick to it.Toinette Reed, owner of Brickhouse Gym, said the first two weeks are the most important in establishing a routine.Your body kind of adjusts after a two-week period, she said.Reed said making a habit out of other lifestyle changes such as getting enough sleep and eating properly will help your body respond faster.
