I'm far from being the president of the Kevin Federline Fan Club (there is a fan club and the site has nearly 600,000 views: www.kevinfederlinefanclub.com) and I would be hard pressed to name so much as one of K-Fed's song, I think the first one was called Papa Zow or something like that. However, even I can admit that as much as he is an annoyance across the board, from his ridiculous behavior to his gold digger status to his seemingly endless number of public appearances from his feuding with the WWE Champ John Cena on national television to his cameo appearances on game shows such as 1 vs. 100, we need to give the guy a break.What possible reason can any of us come up with that a man that has never amounted to a greater level of fame than a back-up dancer for Pink and his ex-wife and mother of two children Britney Spears should have been granted so much public attention by the mass media? Us, it is our fault that the man not only became internationally known, but also the running joke of the last two years. And you know who is laughing the most? It's K-Fed, about $50 million worth of hysterics, even if it does come at the expense of his pride and very identity.With the recent uproar caused by the 30 second Nationwide Insurance commercial set to be played during the Super Bowl, representatives from the fast food industry are adding just one more thing to K-Fed's growing resume of disappointment.After reports of the commercial (which shows a daydreaming K-Fed thinking about stardom, but working as a fry-cook) hit the internet an almost immediate uproar surfaced in the fast food industry, one so powerful that the National Restaurant Association sent a heated statement to Nationwide that said that the ad was a 'direct insult to the 12.8 million Americans who work in the restaurant industry.' Apologetic but unrepentant, Nationwide refused to pull the commercial, insisting that it hadn't intend to insult anyone except for K-Fed himself.And as much as the public- and Nationwide for that matter- might think that the ad is just making another joke- albeit a very funny joke- at the expense of the washed up rapper, the fact is that K-Fed willfully agreed to do the commercial. How much he was paid for the commercial is unknown to this writer, however, the fact still stands that through all that has happened in the life of the know dubbed Fed-Ex he has either still stated as materialistic as he possibly can while still remaining in the national spotlight,1Below are the top articles rated and ranked by Helium members on: by Jon GrilzI'm far from being the president of the Kevin Federline Fan Club (there is a fan club and the site has nearly 600,000... read moreby Nicolette MontanoIn a recent visit to People's Magazine's website, there was an article talking about how fast food workers are furiou... read moreAdd your voiceKnow something about Reactions to Kevin Federline's Super Bowl commercial?We want to hear your view. Write now!
