AN EALING man has been given a prestigious business award. Jamal Salloum, 38, and his business partner Nilesh Soneji, 41, were handed the Lloyds TSB Southern Jewel Award in healthcare for their successful opticians practices. The pair trained together after graduating as opticians in 1990, and started their first Dolland and Aitchison franchise in 1994 in Hammersmith. Mr Salloum, who came to the UK from the Palestinian West Bank in 1987, and now lives in Lynton Avenue, West Ealing, with his wife and two children, said: To receive this award is absolutely fantastic for us. I think they have looked at our performance and seen how committed we are to customer service, and it is nice of them to recognise our success. Last year the pair opened a second store in Teddington, but Mr Soneji, who lives in Preston Road, Harrow, said the pair would not look to open another outlet at the moment. He said: We really want to concentrate on consolidating the two shops. At the moment what we want is to build up the Teddington branch to build up our customer base. Its important to us to concentrate on customer service, and what we want to do is to get repeat customers as that is important to us. Mr Salloum came from the Palestinian city of Ramallah in the West Bank in 1987 to study optometry at Islington College. However, just after he left a war broke out which prevented him going home while he studied. He said: I was worried if I went back I would not be able to get back here to finish my studies. My family are all still there, but I settled here and started a family. We went over for the first time in nine years earlier this year and it was a really great occasion. Mr Soneji was born in east Africa, but his parents were forced to flee during the military coup of Idi Armin in Uganda. They were split up and he went with his mother to India while his father came to the UK. He said: It took nine years before my father could bring us over here. I was nine when I first entered education, and I couldnt speak a word of English, so I just kept my head down and worked hard. Everybody has some sort of obstacle to overcome as they are going along, and it is how we do this that really matters. 
