Now what could be getting your goat today, onliners? Trams! Never...oh, and the polis, and banking...for a wee change. The first day of tram works on The Mound left commuters frustrated.Just imagine the drop in air quality from all those idling buses pumping out heavy particulates that hang at street level.IncandescentDo feel a bit sorry for all the gullible people on the buses though. It ain't quick, it ain't cheap, and it's not reliable. A car can route around all this, a bus can't. allknowingThis morning was a complete joke, if this is how it is going to be until April I can see the 75 buses on Princes Street sitting there empty for the next six months. Absolute joke.NotAgain...surely!!!!,I've just been along Princes Street (on foot) and it is like the rush hour already, just one great long line of buses nose to tail. thehitmasterI am in shock to the disruption that the Mound closure has caused. I am livid! My journey time has now doubled and this has to continue for 6 months, it now takes 1hr to get from Leith to the West End.GrrrrrrrrrrrrrrI hope that the present financial crisis will soon have an adverse effect on the trams/tram works. Personally I can't wait for this ridiculous project to become a total failure. Down with Labour and down with trams. Peter " very disappointed/concernedSpeculation that the HBoS/Lloyds TSB deal might fall through drew ire...This is getting ridiculous. I cant find a bank I can trust with my money. If Lloyds pull away (which I think is likely) no-one will want the old banger which is HBoS. A biscuit tin, under the bed. The Genuine Mario Antoinette Getting away from the global economic crisis, some doubts were raised at the news that crime figures have dropped.This is absolute rubbish. The reason crime has 'dropped' is because people do not bother reporting crime. The police ain't interested in attending reported crime and doing something about it. I reported assault, abuse, and breach of the peace last year " and guess what " I am still waiting for them to attend.Gorgie_TonyIf it's not worthy of front page news you've got no chance of the doughnut munchers responding, unless it's happened to somebody they know and they're right on to it! zicoandrogerI wonder how these figures compare with those of solved cases in relation to exceeding the speed limit?Alternative (High-Octane) Fuel HeadThere are a few well protected groups, the usual suspects, but for most of us the police service is pretty poor. There are more police on the streets than ever before, paperwork is at an all time low, so what exactly do they (police) do all day?The JudgeHow about reducing their exorbitant pay and bring them in line with services that actually do a good job like nurses, paramedics and firemen. After all they are the ones that save lives.JamboMowgDearie me " crime might be down, but knee-jerk cynicism certainly isn't.Wee KeefThey sit, wait and ambush anyone driving 32mph to get their 'numbers' and they wonder why people are cynical.'Xena " Warrior Princess,
