By Chikako Mogi    TOKYO, Nov 6 (Reuters) - Japanese government bonds rose on    Thursday as a slide in Tokyo share prices revived investors&amp;#039;    appetite for safe-haven government debt securities.    The Nikkei share average extended losses to fall more than 5    percent, hurt by a firmer yen and after U.S. stocks sank on    dismal economic data on Wednesday that offered further evidence    of a slumping economy.    U.S. Treasuries gained on the U.S. stock market decline.    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s natural that JGBs are getting a boost from the slide in    share prices,&amp;#039; said Chotaro Morita, head of Japan fixed-income    strategy research at Barclays Capital.    He said investors, who had sat on the sidelines when global    financial market turmoil intensified in September and October,    were looking to buy bonds for their portfolio allocations for the    second half of Japan&amp;#039;s business year now that financial markets    have regained some calm.    &amp;#039;Japanese players such as regional banks can&amp;#039;t take the risk    in credit or stock investments while lending remains sluggish, so    they have little option but to turn to JGBs for investment,&amp;#039;    Morita said.    December 10-year JGB futures rose 0.78 point to    138.01, after hitting a high of 138.16, nearly a full point on    the day. Volume was low at below 13,000 contracts.    The benchmark 10-year yield fell 3 basis    points to 1.495 percent while the five-year yield    fell 4 basis points to 0.885 percent. The two-year yield was    unchanged at 0.545 percent.    The benchmark Nikkei slipped 5.7 percent after rising    to a three-week closing high on Wednesday. The Nikkei had climbed    11 percent over the past two days.    Traders and analysts said shorter- and medium-term maturities    were underpinned by the Bank of Japan&amp;#039;s rate cut last week, the    first in seven years.    Despite the rate cut, money market rates, particularly on    terms out to a week and beyond, remained high as market liquidity    remained tight due to players&amp;#039; reluctance to lend, traders said.    The BOJ was expected to further bolster its funding measures    as demand for cash picks up before the year-end.    The tightness in money market rates was limiting a fall in    short- to medium-term JGB yields, analysts said.    &amp;#039;Once money market rates stabilise and the impact of the rate    cut is felt, yields in short- to medium-term JGB maturities will    have more scope to fall,&amp;#039; said Tatsuo Ichikawa, fixed-income    strategist at RBS Securities.    Traders said the Ministry of Finance&amp;#039;s issue of 200 billion    yen ($2.04 billion) in 40-year JGBs on Friday was unlikely to    have much impact on the broader market as the bonds were    primarily targeted at insurers and pension funds.    U.S. economic data released on Wednesday showed that a key    gauge of the service sector fell to the lowest since the index    was launched in 1997, while U.S. private employers made their    deepest job cuts in six years. The data foreshadowed weakness in    the key U.S. jobs data due on Friday.    ($1=97.89 Yen)    (Editing by Chris Gallagher)    (chikako.mogi@thomsonreuters.com; Reuters Messaging:    chikako.mogi.reuters.com@reuters.ne  t; +81-3-6441-1871 )    Keywords: MARKETS JAPAN JGB    Double-click on brackets for following items:    JGB historical auction results    JGB benchmark data from JBTC   brokers &amp;#039; broker    JGB composite data from Reuters    JGB long and super-long sectors (OTC)    JGB medium-term sector (OTC)    JGB futures composite    Japanese debt Speed Guide    Yen currency/swaps/derivatives Speed Guide    JGB closing prices/yields from brokers&amp;#039; broker    Lead 10-year JGB futures on TSE    10-year JGB futures on TSE (day session)    10-year JGB futures on TSE (night session)    10-year JGB futures on LIFFE    10-year JGB futures on SIMEX    10-year JGB future options on TSE    Tokyo Mitsubishi Securities yen bond index    TIFFE euroyen futures    SIMEX euroyen futures    CME   euroyen futures    Yen OIS from Meitan Tradition    Yen OIS on BOJ meetings from Meitan Tradition    Yen OIS from Totan Capital    Yen TIBOR (Tokyo interbank offered rate)    Yen LIBOR (London interbank offered rate)    Yen interest rate swaps contributed    Yen interest rate swaps from Totan Capital    World yields summary    (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for:  * 3000 Xtra    : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com  * BridgeStation: view story .134  * Reuters Plus: from your WebDSS screen For more information on Top News, visit http://topnews.reuters.com)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
