NEWS    - South Korea to pump $11 billion in economy    - Rate cuts seen in euro zone, Britain, Australia    - Asian stock markets up 6 pct, Europe seen up too    - China manufacturing sector weakens in Oct, CLSA survey    shows. India at 3-   year low, another survey says.    -  Australia Oct manufacturing at 16-month-low, retail    down;interest rate expected to be cut to 5.5 pct    -  Britain&amp;#039;s Brown expects Saudi Arabia to eventually give    money to the IMF to prop up struggling economies    MARKETS    - Oil near $69, reversing losses    - U.S. dollar at 99.43 yen; euro at $1.2880    - Asian shares up; MSCI stock index ex-Japan up 5.15 pct    (Japan closed for holiday)    QUOTES    &amp;#039;The focus this week is clearly on some of the major central    banks and it is hard not to see the disease that started in the    United States spreading to other economies.&amp;#039; - Robert Rennie,    chief currency strategist at Westpac in Sydney.    &amp;#039;Some weeks back, what were needed were coordinated global    policy responses. Though there have been a few wobbles and maybe    less coordination than ideal, it is difficult not to look back    and consider that we are moving in the right direction.&amp;#039; Patrick    Bennett, Asia foreign exchange and rates strategist with Societe    Generale in Hong Kong.    COMING EVENTS    Monday, Nov. 3    MARSEILLES, France - Eurogroup of finance ministers meeting.    HELSINKI - Head of IMF mission to Finland holds news    conference on fund&amp;#039;s annual country review.    WASHINGTON- U.S. Commerce Dept issues Construction spending    for September    Tuesday, Mov 4    SYDNEY - Reserve Bank of Australia holds monthly policy    meeting    (Compiled by World Desk, Singapore +65 6870-3815    Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 0515 GMT    (Full coverage of the financial crisis)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
