NEWS    - Asia shares hit three-week high; investors see Obama win    ending some market uncertainties    - BOJ governor warns against cutting rates too far    - ECB&amp;#039;s Stark sees weak growth well into 2009, possible    disinflation    - U.S. consumer bankruptcies soar in October    - Obama may rewrite Greenspan-era rules of finance    - Key bank-to-bank lending rates hit 5-month lows    - Britain, euro zone rate cuts expected this week    MARKETS    - Europe shares set to fall after six days of gains    - Nikkei sees highest close in 3 weeks on exporter gains, Obama win    - Dollar recovers after steep slide; worst seen over for won    - Oil off 3 pct as investors take profit after recent spike    QUOTES    &amp;#039;The knee-jerk complacency rally in Asia to an Obama win is likely creating an opportunity to sell. The bottom line is economic fundamentals in the U.S. are deteriorating faster than the market can keep up with. And there is very little an Obama administration can do to shield Asia from the effects of this downturn.&amp;#039; - Kirby Daley, Newedge Group in Hong Kong.    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s growing clear that the recession is going to have a shelf life unlike the last recessions in both scope and duration.&amp;#039; - Doug Kass, founder and president of hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s a vote for change and has to inject a degree of optimism that America can again reinvent itself.&amp;#039; - Rob Henderson, head of market economics with National Australia Bank in Sydney.    EVENTS    Wednesday, Nov 5    LONDON - Bank of England (BoE) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting    TRUJILLO, Peru - Start of two-day APEC finance ministers&amp;#039; meeting    Thursday, Nov 6    JAKARTA - Bank Indonesia Board of Governors; meeting    FRANKFURT - ECB Governing Council meeting, followed by interest rate announcement 1245 GMT.    LONDON - BoE MPC announces interest rate decision 1200 GMT    REYKJAVIK - Icelandic central bank publishes Monetary Bulletin 2008/3    (Compiled by World Desk, Asia, +65 6870 3815)    Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 0830 GMT    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
