By Kevin Plumberg    HONG KONG, Nov 17 (Reuters) - Most Asian stocks fell on Monday as hopes for substantial global financial policy changes faded after a weekend meeting of world leaders failed to produce concrete measures, causing investors to continue to seek safety in U.S. dollars.    Oil prices also sank, slipping below $56 a barrel to within striking distance of last week&amp;#039;s 22-month low after policymakers from both emerging and developed economies who met in Washington chose to leave individual governments to tend their own backyards. Many are struggling to cope with the worst financial crisis in 80 years, with Japan joining a growing list of economies sliding into recessions.    Financial markets and economies remained locked in a vicious circle, with weakness in one affecting the other.    Investors for their part remained focussed on slashing any form of risk in their portfolios and hoping more interest rate cuts that markets are betting on will eventually improve sentiment.    &amp;#039;It is possible for the negative growth to continue in the second half of the fiscal year,&amp;#039; said Tatsushi Shikano, senior economist with Mitsubishi UFJ Securities in Tokyo, about prospects for the Japanese economy. &amp;#039;The economy abroad, especially the United States, is slowing down and it is likely that exports will remain weak.&amp;#039;    The MSCI index of Asia-Pacific stocks outside of Japan  fell 1.6 percent, extending last week&amp;#039;s 9.7 drop. Year-to-date losses have piled up to around 57 percent.    Tokyo&amp;#039;s Nikkei share average recovered slightly, up 1.2 percent, as the yen fell and as long-term investors snapped up cheap stocks.    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group stock fell 1.9 percent after Japan&amp;#039;s third-largest bank posted on Friday a 51 percent decline in quarterly profit because of bad loans.    Hong Kong&amp;#039;s Hang Seng index slipped 0.6 percent in choppy trade, with shares of Hong Kong Exchanges &amp;amp;amp; Clearing  the biggest percentage loser as investors expected withering volumes to hurt the company&amp;#039;s bottom line.    Airline stocks such as Air China, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines rallied on hopes they will get government cash injections to cope with high costs and weak demand.    The yen cut its gains against the euro and the U.S. dollar after a report showed Japan&amp;#039;s gross domestic product shrank by 0.1 percent in the July-to-September period and government officials said the situation could worsen further.    However, with the process of widespread risk reduction still very much intact, dealers did not expect the yen to stay down for long.    The U.S. dollar slipped 0.1 percent to 96.94 yen, and the euro was off 0.4 percent to 121.79 yen.    U.S. light crude for December delivery fell $1.28 to $55.76 a barrel, near the $54.67 a barrel low it hit on Thursday, its weakest since January 2007.    &amp;#039;G20 leaders may have urged fast action to deal with the global financial crisis, but concern over the weakened international economic outlook still weighs heavily,&amp;#039; said David Moore, a commodities strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.    The Group of 20 world leaders agreed Saturday to a raft of fiscal and monetary steps to rescue the global economy, but it was left to individual governments to tailor their response to their particular circumstances.    (Additional reporting by Fayen Wong in PERTH and Fang Yan in SHANGHAI; Editing by Lincoln Feast) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL    (Reuters Messaging:kevin.plumberg.reuters.co  m@reuters.net Email: kevin.plumberg@thomsonreuters.com; +852 2843-6370)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
