LAUREN AND CHASELast week I got a call from my best childhood friend, Tiffany. It was late, around midnight, so I instantly thought "what's wrong?" She told me my dear friend and once roommate Lauren, her brother was in a boating accident and had been missing for over 48 hours. Your whole body freezes when you hear news like that. Chase and some friends had just taken a ride on a lake in Texas to celebrate being done with finals.  His friends set up a Facebook site urging people to pray for the missing Chase, only 23 years old, which quickly grew to over 5000 members. Almost a week later, his body was found in the lake.When death comes like this, so suddenly, stealing the life of a young guy just out having fun,  it's very hard to believe it was this soul's "time to go." It becomes harder, at least for me, to believe that "everything happens for a reason," and that God, or the universe, or whoever you believe in, has a master plan. But, as Derrek told me, if this death was just a pure accident, a truly random event, then that would mean there is no order to our universe at all ... something even harder to swallow. When I look at the way nature functions, I can only believe there is order and a grand scheme being played out each day. The human body, an amazing machine that functions without effort ... that too makes me believe in a higher power and that there is a reason for everything.But then a death like this catapults a huge boulder into the smoothly moving gears of my mind and I question all I believe and wonder ... is every event just a random happening on this big ball flying through space? No. It can't be, right?Please pray for my friend Lauren and the Bergfeld family and everyone who knew and still loves Chase. Meditate, send out energy, do what works for you and help this family unit heal and understand this time in there lives.Friends have set up a memorial fund for the family. Donations can be made at any Bank of America location.Chase Bergfeld Memorial FundBank of America2900 West Davis St.Conroe, Tx. 77304(936) 539-0299You can also donate at:http://chasebergfeld.blogspot.com/With Gratitude for Living Each Day~L~
