 THE WORST companies to be helpful.  I fought for FOUR YEARS after taking their advice to pay as they researched a fraudulent account balance!  I had even hired a lawyer and got NO WHERE!  Almost 2 weeks ago I decided to call Senator Bill Nelson with my problem, he assigned a person to work on my problem.  Within TWO DAYS I got a call that they will FINALLY pay me back all my money.  Almost $8,000.00 worth.  True I don't have the check in my hand, but after ALL I've been through with them, all FIVE times I sent them ALL the documentation about the account, after I finally STOPPED paying them because they told me it was an "inside job" and turned me over to a credit bureau, I never let up!!  Last Thursday "Ivy Daley" called and told me she was sending the requisition to pay the amount to me.  I told her she had no more than TWO WEEKS and it's back to Billy Boy for me!  I told her I had taxes to pay at the end of this month and NEEDED a time to expect the check because I would have to withdraw money from my IRA.  She said I should give her a couple of days and suggested I not withdraw any funds just yet.  I plan to give her a call tomorrow and "bug" her one more time!!  Nelson's office told me that BOA is almost the WORST company when it comes to dealing with this stuff!  Remind them about the BAILOUT money, and the extra money BFEE paid after the approval!  THEN remind them of their NFL Extravaganza that cost almost 1 million dollars, where the sole purpose was for them to find new accounts to sign up with them.  Bug them and hit them hard!  It took me a long time, but I hung in there and I KNOW FOUR years is a long time... but it does look like I will finally get what is due me!!  RIGHT NOW is a perfect time to call their bluff... they are soooooooooooo crooked!  I did settle for only the amount I paid, but did tell them I was the BIGGER person because in actuality I felt they owed me double for all the stress and sleepless night they caused me.  Punitive damages if you will!  Some here say pay.... I SAY NO!!  I HATE THEM, and they will lie about so many issues and you need to be strong and call them on it!!!  PM me if you want personal numbers I have acquired through this process!    
