          New to this forum but thought I would share--my Tier 1 General visa was just issued yesterday!  My timeline went something like this, in case you&#039;re curious:   -submitted my online application/paid my fee on Dec 19th.    -had my biometrics taken on Jan 23rd/mailed off my supporting documents the same day (shipped USPS priority/registered mail)  -received the following email on Jan 29th: ------------ Dear Applicant  Your application has arrived safely at the New York office and is currently being processed. The estimated processing time for your application is 5/10 working days plus mail time, however no guarantee is given. Sometimes it is necessary to make additional enquiries on an application which will extend the processing time.  You will receive another e-mail advising you of the outcome of your application in due course.  Please note that we are unable to answer status enquiries unless we have exceeded the estimated processing time. ------  -received the following email the next day,  Jan 30th: ------- Your Tier One General visa has been issued today. Please note that policy states we can only issue visas up to 3 months from todays date, accordingly your visa will begin on 30/04/2009. We are unable to issue any further in advance than this date. -------  -received one final email on the same day letting me know that my visa was being sent overnight by UPS (it&#039;s currently en route to Boston and I expect to sign for it this afternoon).   I am quite impressed with how quickly they got to my application.  I have a whole separate post about how hard it was for me to collect my supporting documents (especially with Bank of America, definitely have some good tips for people on that front).    But the reason I&#039;m posting now is that I want to know what I should be working on now *before* I actually move.  I have spent so much time over the past 6 months getting this application ready that I haven&#039;t really thought much beyond that.  My situation is this: my boyfriend moved back to the UK last July and we have been doing long-distance since.  I am planning to work here in the US through the end of June and then join him sometime in July. We plan to stay for a month in his current apartment that he shares with roommates and then find a place of our own in August.    I know I need to look over my visa when it arrives to make sure everything is accurate.  Is there anything else I should be aware of?  I am considering applying for jobs from the US and trying to get some interviews lined up before I quit my job (really hate to be out of work in this economy).  I also am thinking of visiting him in March, *before* my visa is set to start.  Will I have any trouble getting through immigration at this time?  Will there be any problems with me going over multiple times to interview in May or June once my visa has started, before I have permanently settled there?    Additionally, I know my visa is good for three years, but we do plan on living together permanently/getting married at some stage.  Is there anything we can do once I am there to make it easier for me to switch visas at some point?  Should we start a joint-checking account, etc?   Anything else I should be aware of that would be helpful?     
