 OBJECTIVES As a person with knowledge of takeovers and mergers, the author has always brought up to his superiors the viability of strategy formation regarding the analysis of these topics and at times fails to understand the reasons or logic behind certain strategic implementations imposed on it. By delving into this project paper, the author intends to have better insights into how takeovers and mergers are thought up, formulated and then imparted down into the subsidiaries of the company or organization. The author hopes to have an in-depth understanding as to how the process of takeovers and mergers enable companies and organizations to compete effectively and profitably in this era of internationalization where competition is extremely intense. In order to reinforce the learning objectives, two key focal issues were focused upon i.e. innovation and diversity. Innovation was discussed with regard to takeovers and mergers among companies and organizations where it was renowned for its developmental capabilities to constantly innovate. Diversity came under strategic thinking and formation as the author considered the diverse culture, political climate, economic surroundings, social environment, technological settings, government policies and legal systems in order to better understand the issues being discussed. INTRODUCTION Companies today have to be efficient, flexible and profitable. Without these factors, it would be very difficult to compete in the global economy. Aside from participating in strategic alliances to fully enhance the resources they need to become competitive, many companies now evolve and expand through mergers or acquisitions. Among the most important merger and acquisition deals in recent years are Daimler-Chrysler, Chase-J.P. Morgan, SKB-Glaxo, NationsBank-Bank of America, and Deutsche Telekom-Voice Stream. Although global economic and market conditions are unpredictable, the future provides the best conditions for the continuation of merger and acquisition processes ( 1993, 1994, . 1989, . 2001). Some businessmen argue...           
