Carson mall work at crossroads over funding [Daily Breeze, Torrance, Calif.] Knight Ridder/Tribune    "Business News " Feb. 19 --MORE CARSON NEWS  Proposal to cut council salaries is dropped  Mayor Jim Dear withdraws foreclosure help A mall developer is asking the city of Carson for $69 million upfront, citing difficulties in obtaining financing for the project from Wall Street. The developer is running out of cash for remediation work at the former landfill site that will be home to The Boulevards at South Bay, a massive retail and housing development. But with the freeze in the credit markets, the developer has been unable to secure financing to keep the project going. The project could be at risk of coming to a halt. "They are basically running out," said Clifford Graves, the city's redevelopment manager. Without the subsidy upfront, Graves said, "our guess is they would stop operations, and that would be the worst of all worlds." The city agreed to commit $110 million to the project in 2006. That subsidy was increased to $120 million last year after it became clear that the real estate market had soured. But as the deal was originally structured, the city's investment was to come after the developer completed various stages of the remediation work at the site, which has been vacant for more than 40 years. The city's full subsidy would only kick in once the site was clean, in order to protect its investment. In the meantime, the developer, a consortium of Hopkins Real Estate Group and LNR Property Corp. , intended to secure credit from Bank of America to fund the work. But as the credit markets dried up last fall, the developer found itself unable to get financing. The developer has continued to pay for the remediation work out of its cash reserves, but that money is running low. Graves worked with the developers and the city's consultants to rework the agreement to provide $69.5 million upfront. That would expose the city to significantly greater risk than was originally contemplated. In exchange, the developer agreed to pay up to $16 million back if the project is not generating revenue by 2016. The City Council was expected to approve the deal Tuesday night, but instead asked for a delay to learn more details. The deal will be on the council agenda again March 4 . Rita Boggs, a council candidate, said she was encouraged that the council had postponed considering the new agreement. "We can't go in and bankrupt the city in order to keep (the developer) afloat," said Boggs, who sued unsuccessfully to block the construction of homes on the landfill site. "If it means stopping work for the time being, then maybe it has to stop." The council, however, seems inclined to do what it takes to keep the project going on the huge parcel alongside the San Diego (405) Freeway. "I think the worst thing that could happen would be for us to have a half-remediated site," said Mayor Jim Dear. "That would be a terrible thing for Carson." The city would fund the remediation with redevelopment cash, and by issuing bonds against the portion of its sales tax revenues that is committed to redevelopment work. Such funds cannot be used to pay for general fund expenses, like the Sheriff's Department and park programs. The city is asking voters for a utility-users' tax to close a $5 million general fund deficit. If approved, that tax would expire in 2016. Longer term, the city is banking on The Boulevards at South Bay to balance its books. Once it is open, the mall could generate up to $5 million a year in sales tax, which would go to the general fund. Though the developer expects to open the project as early as 2012, there would be no penalty for a two-year delay. gene.maddaus@dailybreeze.com To see more of the Daily Breeze or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.dailybreeze.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Daily Breeze, Torrance, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc. , 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.
