Volunteer group CASA fights illicit debt [The Oklahoman, Oklahoma City] Knight Ridder/Tribune    "Business News " Feb. 25 --A volunteer agency that helps abused and neglected children is disputing thousands in unauthorized credit card debt. The Oklahoman has obtained from the Oklahoma CASA Association two Bank of America credit card statements totaling more than $26,000 in past due balances. The statements bear of the name of Anna Naukam, who was fired as the association's director in October. Interim CASA Director Sheryl Marseilles said she doesn't know what the charges are for, but at no time was Naukam authorized to obtain credit lines on the group's behalf. She said the agency has been approached by bank officials about paying the debt but is disputing it. Marseilles said the debt went undetected by agency officials because credit card statements were being mailed to Naukam's home, not to the agency. The Oklahoman's calls to Naukam were not returned. The state auditor's office in November launched an investigation into discrepancies in the organization's financial records. Terri Watkins, auditor's office spokeswoman, said auditors are reviewing agency financial records back to 2002. Oklahoma CASA Association board members suspected trouble about a year ago when there were problems obtaining financial reports, President Sheila Baker said. At this time, it appears all CASA programs statewide have received the money intended for them, Baker said. "We're anxious to sit down with the auditor and get to the bottom of this," Baker said. "Then we can concentrate on doing what we do -- help children that need us." To see more of The Oklahoman, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.newsok.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Oklahoman, Oklahoma City Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc. , 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.
