A response to the Editor...  "Dear Editor,  I read your recent editorial calling for the ban of assault weapons with great interest. There was a time when I agreed 100% with the concept of banning some of these firearms. That was before I became a father of a young child. That statement may sound odd but having owned both hand guns and high capacity, semi-automatic rifles (what some folks like to hype by labeling "assault weapons"), I gained a great understanding of the threats posed by various kinds of firearms.  I am convinced that our kids would be much safer if all pistols were replaced by these so-called "assault weapons." Because children can actually pick up, manipulate and point pistols at each other, it is these kinds of weapons that account for nearly all accidental shootings. There are virtually no incidents of accidental deaths or injuries involving assault rifles. This is because they require adult levels of strength and dexterity to manipulate the firearm (disengage safety, load, insert and properly seat the magazine, cock the action and lift the rifle up in such a way that the muzzle leaves the ground). It just isn't really possible for young children to perform this entire process to its most feared conclusion.  Additionally, the actual crime stats reflect that "assault weapons" are rarely used in crimes (less than 1% according to FBI statistics). In the Miami incident cited in your editorial, witnesses described the suspect pulling an AK47 from his waistband. It isn't possible to carry a 9+ lb. AK47 in your waistband without losing your pants on the way to your destination. So what we very likely had was a misinformed, and likely terrorized victim attempting to ID a firearm and inadvertently calling what was very likely a large pistol caliber firearm an "AK47." This term now seems to be used as a generic descriptor for any scary looking firearm that doesn't appear to be a small pistol.  Another high-profile case, the Hollywood Bank of America shootout occurred in a state that had a ban on "assault weapons" in place. In that case, the criminals didn't care about the law and yet none of the law abiding citizens caught up in the fray had high-capacity rifles available to them. So a shootout that could have ended in 2 minutes if one citizen had been properly armed, lasted 44 minutes and resulted in multiple injuries.  It is often said that these "powerful" guns can't be used for hunting and therefore shouldn't be legal. If you visit a gun store and ask to see the rounds used in various hunting rifles and compare them to those from the "assault weapons", you'll find that numerous, common hunting calibers are much more powerful and can travel greater distances.  So if your agenda is to restrict rights by responding to a hyped up threat without giving weight to the facts, by all means ban these wicked, evil, mean looking guns. If you actually want to reduce crime, focus on the illegal sale and distribution of hand guns. If you actually want to reduce the threat to children, sponsor a gun trade in where law-abiding citizens can trade their handgun in for an AK47.  Name Address Phone #s"   Fellas, please take 2 minutes write your reps about the Assault Weapons Ban at:  http://www.capwiz.com/nra/dbq/officials/  and make this your sig line too if you value the cause.  
