 BOSTON, BUSINESS WIRE -- g8wave, Anheuser-Busch and The Barclays, the first of four PGA TOUR Playoff events for the FedExCup, have teamed up to give golf fans a chance to win a variety of exciting prizes. Fans will be encouraged to text message to win prizes ranging from a chance to play at Ridgewood Country Club, host venue for The Barclays, to VIP packages to New York Giants and New York Yankees games. Additionally, dozens of Michelob Golf prize packs will be given away. The promotion kicks off in mid-July and will be promoted point of sale and in pack. Prizes will be given away daily leading up to the tournament being played August 19th to the 24th. The Barclays, which will kick off the PGA TOUR Playoffs for the FedExCup, will be played at historic Ridgewood Country Club in Paramus, NJ. The world's top golfers are expected to play, including Phil Mickelson, Vijay Singh, Sergio Garcia and defending champion Steve Stricker. 'Golf fans everywhere understand how thrilling it will be to watch the best players in the world begin the PGA TOUR Playoffs for the FedExCup here at The Barlcays' Executive Director Peter Mele said. 'We are excited that g8wave and Anheuser-Busch are helping us find additional ways to build the excitement.' About g8wave g8wave (gate-wave) is a world leader in the planning, creation, and execution of effective mobile marketing campaigns, branded community applications and content distribution strategies. The culmination of over 40 years in converged media, the company was created by the forty year-old Phoenix Media/Communications Group. For more information about g8wave., visit www.g8wave.com. About the PGA TOUR The PGA TOUR is a tax-exempt membership organization of professional golfers. Its primary purpose is to provide competitive earnings opportunities for past, current and future members of the PGA TOUR, Champions Tour and Nationwide Tour; to protect the integrity of the game; and to help grow the reach of the game in the U.S. and around the world. Tournaments are being held in nine countries outside the U.S. and in 37 states. The PGA TOUR's web site address is www.pgatour.com and the company is headquartered in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Contacts: g8wave Jeff Ostiguy, 617-450-8601 Vice President jeff@g8wave.com Copyright Business Wire 2008. All Rights Reserved 
