  By Lewine MairThe good news is that Lee Westwood, who handed in a 67 to the 64s of Thongchai Jaidee and Alexander Noren on the first day of the Barclays Scottish Open, is feeling 'a bit under the weather'. That was precisely his state of health in the days leading up to the recent US Open where he finished third behind Tiger Woods and Rocco Mediate.Pre-US Open, Westwood had tonsillitis.Yesterday, he said his legs were 'weak'. Yet, in such circumstances, he was not worried about the situation. Quite the reverse, in fact. 'Yes,' he chuckled, 'I'm almost pleased to be feeling bad. It could be a good omen.' Westwood's four-footer to finish with a 66 horseshoed round the cup but, over the day, he did everything well. 'Nothing,' he said, 'breeds confidence like good results and, at the moment, the shots are flying in as I picture them. If I miss the green, I'm getting up and down not easily, but comfortably. I'm not leaving myself too much work to do and I'm starting to feel good on the greens.' He was quick to shake off the suggestion that his game had moved to 'another level'. That was a remark which took him back, with a jolt, to 2000, the year he won the Order of Merit and promptly decided that if he were to start winning majors, he would need to change his swing. He embarked on changes and plummeted to 75th on the money list. 'There isn't another level,' said Westwood, who won the Scottish Open in 1998. 'I made that mistake back in 2000. I looked for another level and it cost me three years of my career. So that other level is a fallacy.' His manager, Chubby Chandler, was able to expand. 'Lee,' he said, 'has reached the point where he's working along the right lines on all fronts. He will get better simply by carrying on doing what he's doing.' Jaidee, when he first came to Europe, would have been hopeless in the kind of wet conditions which prevailed for most of yesterday, the reason being that he could not play in waterproofs. In Thailand, they never have to because the rain in those parts is usually torrential and accompanied by lightning. Eventually, he started practising in waterproofs and, even though his fellow Thais would ask, 'Are you crazy?' it worked. Angel Cabrera, who is one behind Jaidee and Sweden's Noren, is as wily as they come. Not for him wasting time on end-of-round interviews with the press and TV. With an apologetic shrug, he explains that he cannot speak English - and that though he will have been chatting away perfectly adequately with his colleagues on the course. Yesterday, this winner of the 2007 US Open left word that his driving was excellent and that he liked the way he is playing going into the Open.Wales' Garry Houston was six under with five to play before finishing on five- under. In his first 13 holes, the Welshman had bagged five birdies along with an eagle at the 18th where he holed his second. To win here would be a good way into the Open, an event for which he has failed to qualify for 13 years in a row.Andres Romero's fine scoring will have people pricking up their ears. Last year, this richly gifted Argentine came from nowhere to finish third in the Open before winning the Deutsche Bank Players' Championship of Europe the following Sunday.In the space of two weeks, he had climbed from 114th on the money list to 29th. Yesterday, he finished on 68, one behind Graeme McDowell. The latter, after a short lull following his win in Korea, has been playing better and better in the run-up to the Open.Ross Fisher and Oliver Wilson were two more to enjoy a thoroughly encouraging day. With a couple of holes to go, these players of the moment were both ahead of the third member of their group, Phil Mickelson. This, of course, was only one round of golf but it was still going to add up to a nice little fillip for the pair if they kept it going.As you would expect, Colin Montgomerie contrived to do something newsworthy in his 69. On the day of his wedding here in April, he held a golf tournament for his guests at which he joined each party as they played the short eighth.Then, he prided himself on making 14 pars and four birdies. Yesterday, he walked off with a three-putt bogey.
