 It is a decade and a half since Toronto's sports fans have cheered on a team of world-beaters, but the city punches well above its weight when it comes to the potential for selling bank services to pro athletes, say global sports finance experts from HSBC Private Bank. 'If you look at hockey and turn the clock back 20 years, you didn't have all the European athletes,' said Marc Cevey, head of private banking at HSBC in Canada. 'The sport's world is very different now, and that has led to a growing complexity of needs for these clients. In the past, their financial-services requirements were looked after in their home country but now you've got more athletes going overseas, having an offshore and onshore status, and so on.' Such stars as Ital ian Andrea Bargnani of the Raptors, Nik Antropov of the Maple Leafs and Kazhakstan, and Carl Robinson of Wales and Toronto F. C. all call Toronto home. Between the rosters of the Blue Jays, Maple Leafs, Argos, Raptors and one-year-old Toronto F. C. of , the city's sports teams employ athletes from 22 countries.The global sports group at HSBC -- widely considered the world's most international bank -- is specifically targeting Toronto because 'it might be the most cosmopolitan sports city in the world,' said Mark Pannes, who heads the specialist sports group at HSBC's headquarters in London and in Geneva, where there are plenty of tax incentives for the mega-rich. 'You are looking at a critical mass in the city every year of about 150 athletes,' said Mr. Pannes, former head of marketing at the New York Knicks. Pro-athletes have a high churn and often come to the private-banking group with no previous relationship. 'They are not old-family money. They have a number of needs, and they tend to need them all at once.' HSBC's private bank also has specializations in the entertainment industry and for artists. But the constant churn of new sports stars makes the specialist line of advice even more lucrative. And there are also all those peripheral sports figures -- the horse-trainer, the Formula 1 car mechanic, the NBA team doctor -- who also earn high salaries and have international careers, and whose earning power doesn't come to an end in their mid-thirties.Mr. Pannes estimates professional spectator sports -- from PGA golf to Euro 2008 soccer to Formula 1 -- generate revenue of about $260-billion a year from gate receipts, memorabilia, sponsorships and broadcast rights. Canadian revenues in 2007 were more than $2-billion, with Toronto alone generating more than $700-million, according to HSBC's estimates.While athletes take home only a portion of that, their slice is often the biggest. As a result, competition for sports clients is intense, with such big international banks as Barclays, Citigroup, UBS and Credit Suisse all in the market. Local banks can take a piece of the domestic market, too. But the HSBC executives contend their bank has an advantage because its wider international network makes HSBC an obvious choice for sports stars operating on the world stage.
