 The George Washington Carver Birthplace Association (CBA) and the Community Theatre of Southwest Missouri (Stone's Throw Dinner Theatre) is pleased to jointly announce that on Saturday, Aug. 9 and Sunday, Aug. 10, 2008, two benefit performances of Listening to the Still Small Voice: The Story of George Washington Carver will be staged. The one-person play was written and will be performed by CBA executive director Paxton J. Williams. The production that since 2000 has been performed over 100 times in 17 US states and in England concerns the life of the famed scientist, educator, and humanitarian--George Washington Carver. As the actor travels from Civil War-era Missouri, to Carver's laboratory, to the halls of Congress, he will enact the trials, tribulations, and ultimate triumph of the 'Wizard of Tuskegee.' The audience will learn how Dr. Carver, born into slavery, affected and was affected by such historical figures as Eleanor and Franklin Roosevelt, Booker T. Washington, Henry Ford, Henry Wallace, the boll weevil, Thomas Edison, Will Rogers, Josef Stalin, and Mahatma Gandhi. The story of a humble, spirited man who did the best he could to serve humanity, and "fill the poor man's empty dinner pail" will be unfolded. Stone's Throw's Betty Bell says: "We are so pleased that this production on the life of Dr. Carver and the live auction will be used to jointly benefit the Carver Birthplace Association and Stone's Throw Dinner Theatre. Many of us at Stone's Throw had the pleasure of seeing Paxton in the role of Hoke Coleburn in our production of 'Driving Miss Daisy,' and as Tom Robinson in our production of 'To Kill A Mockingbird." 'I am told that Dr. Carver acted in plays while at Simpson College, and so I think he might be pleased that a theatrical event is being used to support both the organization that he gave his encouragement to, that continues to do so much good (CBA), as well as an organization promoting the arts he so loved (Stone's Throw).' Williams is a graduate of Iowa State University, Carvers alma mater, and the Universities of Michigan and Birmingham (UK). While in England, Paxton was on staff at The Drum, the UK's largest arts centre devoted to the promotion of African, Afro-Caribbean, and Asian arts and culture. He currently is completing an adaptation of Shakespeare's Othello to be performed by a cast of three. Tickets must be ordered in advance, and are $12.50, with proceeds evenly divided. Reservations currently are being accepted by calling the theatre at (417) 358-9665. If any individual or organization would like to donate items or services for the live auction, please contact Stone's Throw Board member Betty Bell by Friday, Aug. 1 at (417) 358-7268 or by e-mail. Stone's Throw is located at 796 S. Stone La., Carthage. 
