  Several current and former Unadilla and Vienna officials have been indicted by a Dooly County grand jury.Unadilla City Council members Dexter Eugene Whitaker and Tony Lamar Lester, former City Council members Jeffrey D. Minor and Bobby G. West, former Unadilla Police Chief Leonard Smith and Unadilla City Administrator Ronnie Brand were each indicted on a theft by taking charge, according to an indictment filed Monday with the county's Superior Court clerk.The men are accused of using city funds Feb. 9, 2007, to write a check to Smith that was purported to be a 'personal loan,' an action outside the group's authority, according to the indictment.Whitaker, Minor, Lester and West violated their oath of office by transferring city funds to Smith without authority and violated the Open Meetings Act by agreeing to transfer the money during a telephone conference without giving required advance notice and a public forum for a decision, according to the indictment.Whitaker and Smith also are charged with conspiracy to defraud a political subdivision. The two agreed to use a city police vehicle to drive to another county to obtain Unadilla funds for Smith's benefit, according to court records. The indictment alleges that the act was theft of city property.Last year, Smith was sentenced to five years in prison for claiming simultaneous work hours at both the Unadilla and Fort Valley police departments. Allegations surfaced in April 2006 that Smith, then employed full time at the Fort Valley Police Department and part time as Unadilla's chief, was being paid to be on duty for both agencies during the same hours.In a separate case, Vienna Mayor Pro Tem Eddie Daniels was indicted on charges of insurance fraud, false statements and theft by deception.Daniels is accused of filing a false claim with Nationwide Insurance on Feb. 27, 2005, and taking $3,700 from the company two months later, according to the indictment. Prosecutors allege that he did so knowing he had lied to a police officer about being behind the wheel of a green Honda Civic that was involved in a traffic collision when he wasn't driving at the time of the crash.Contacted at his home Tuesday afternoon, Daniels denied the charges filed against him. He speculated that people in town conspired to get him into trouble, fearing that he would run for mayor. 'There is a bit of conspiracy going on,' he said. 'It was a plotted deal.' Daniels did not run for mayor in Tuesday's election, and he said he has contacted a lawyer about the charges filed against him. He declined to comment further.Denise Fachini, district attorney for the Cordele Judicial Circuit, said the men involved in both cases were instructed to turn themselves in Monday. She declined to comment about specifics of the cases.Each of the men excluding Smith, who is being held at Wayne State Prison, had been released on bond by Tuesday afternoon, according to the Dooly County jail.Messages left for Minor, West and Brand were not returned Tuesday. An attempt to reach Minor and West at Unadilla City Hall was unsuccessful. Phone listings for Whitaker and Lester were unavailable.To contact writer Amy Leigh Womack, call 744-4398.  
