 Sark Estate Management is celebrating a year of investment and redevelopment in the island.The company has also unveiled its plans for the next five years. But not all are convinced the development is a good idea. Anyone who hasn't visited Sark since last summer can easily see what a year of building work and renovation has wrought on the Avenue.Sark Estate Management looks after a number of properties in the island on behalf of the Brecqhou residents, Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay. The brothers are investing heavily in developing tourism businesses, in particular renovating hotels.Kevin Delaney from Sark Estate Management said: 'We'll refurbish the interiors without impacting at all of the characters of the hotels. But really bring them up to the standard that modern day travellers would expect. What we're hoping to do or what we aim to do is to really follow the recommendations of Dr Spence's recent shipping review where he tells us that tourism is the engine that drives Sark's economy, so we very much concur with that view.'Those working on the Barclays' projects value hugely the promise of sustained, reliable employment and income. But all the renovation hasn't gone down well with some islanders, either because they're worried about over-development, or because they are concerned about the influence the Barclays' land holdings and wealth may give them. Mr Delaney says there will be no inappropriate or excessive building.'That would be abhorrent to us. We've come to Sark because of the beauty of Sark. And I reiterate: we will work with the buildings that are here. We bring our funding, our expertise and our time. And with the people of Sark, with the labour force that's available to us we'll do a good job. We'll bring these up to a lovely standard. To start developing all over the place, you would absolutely lose the charm of Sark.'The divide that's become apparent in Sark between those who welcome and those who oppose the Barclays' investments may stand for now. But Sark Estate Management believes many of the doubters can be convinced in the long-term.
