 In a bid to increase market share, credit unions across Washington have banded together and launched an unusual marketing push to nab bank customers. The "Change is Beautiful" campaign is the latest salvo in an age-old battle: Credit unions tout their not-for-profit status, which allows them to offer better interest rates and lower fees. Bankers contend that credit unions should pay the same taxes as banks.The campaign comes as many banks are suffering from the housing market downturn and consumers are skittish about money - timing the credit unions claim is merely coincidental, not an effort to take advantage of banks' woes. To emphasize their difference from banks, the credit unions launched an offbeat "viral" ad campaign that uses web videos - not TV or print ads - to generate interest. Seattle's Big Bang Electrical, which created the campaign, set up a "Change is Beautiful" website and hired actor Carl Weathers - best known for his role as Apollo Creed in the "Rocky" films - to star in videos that focus on Weathers' "musings," rather than the credit unions' mission. A link at the bottom of the webpage takes the user to a site promoting Washington state credit unions.If you are already a Puget Sound Business Journal subscriber please create or sign into your bizjournals.com account to link your valid print subscription and have access to the complete article. Off and running: Experience aided a quick launch.Local niche: Focusing on the local has helped her beat big boxes.Integration pays: A new business model sent sales soaring.New homes: Company lands deal to look for earth-like planets.Coverage cuts: Small businesses pinching pennies cut health insurance.Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!Carol Jenkins Neil never intended to be an entrepreneur. She also never intended to be a nurse - until her father fell ill. Neil, who worked for 10 years at TV stations around Jacksonville, Fla., decided to pursue nursing after seeing doctors struggle to find what was wrong with her father. 
