  Posted:   Updated:BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) - Buffalo's finest have asked a judge to stop the city from eliminating some of the take-home vehicles assigned to law enforcers. Jim Schwann said, 'It is a benefit to these individuals. They took the position because a car was provided.' The police union is arguing officers would be hurt personally and financially by turning in their take home cars, so their attorney asked a county judge for a temporary injunction, until the case can be decided on its merits. Buffalo Police Benevolent Association President Robert Meegan said, 'I mean, is the officer to say, 'well I do not have transportation to get in tonight, to go to that homicide scene, so therefore, just leave the body there, laying in the street, until tomorrow when I do come in?!'' The union also contends the unmarked take home vehicles also means the officer is on duty 24-7. But city attorneys say with skyrocketing gas prices, the twenty take home cars Mayor Byron Brown is taking back will save taxpayers money. Corporation Counsel Alisa Lukasiewicz said, 'A determination was that several of the vehicles that individuals were taking home really do not need to be take home vehicles, because it is a disservice to the taxpayer.' The union is not challenging Mayor Brown's authority to take back the cars, they contend it is a benefit that is subject to collective bargaining. Under the union contract, certain positions are entitled to take home cars. But the union argues those officers in the lawsuit have had their cars for so long, they are considered benefits that can only be taken away by negotiation. Attorney for the city Joshua Feinstein said, 'There is nothing in the CBA Collective Bargaining Agreement that grants these individuals a car. This is in contrast to inspectors who are guaranteed a car under the CBA. These particular individuals are not.' Meegan said, 'The city has been used to trying to steal from police officers. They have stole salary. Now they intend to steal cars form officers that have had them for years upon years upon years. For the city to argue that it is not a benefit? I don't know how they can sit there with a straight face.' Erie County Judge Timothy Drury issued an order basically leaving the car debate 'status quo,' until the case goes to arbitration later this month. You will recall the city is taking back 35 of its 85 take home cars to save money, with twenty of those vehicles coming from the police. Story by Al Vaughters, WIVB.Previous Story: 2:24 p.m., July 14, 2008BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) - The battle over city take-home vehicles is set to head to court Monday. Buffalo's police union is fighting Mayor Byron Brown's decision to slash the number take-home cars. More than a dozen police department employees are scheduled to lose their vehicle privileges Monday. The mayor announced on July 3rd, he was cutting the number of take-home cars as a way to save on the city's fuel costs. Despite those cuts, the mayor is keeping his own take-home car.Previous Story: 11:56 a.m., July 13, 2008BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) - Buffalo's police union is heading to court over Mayor Byron Brown's decision to cut take-home cars. The case will go before a judge Monday. That's the same day more than a dozen police department employees are set to lose their vehicle privileges. The mayor announced on July 3rd, he was slashing the number of take-home cars as a way to cut the city's fuel costs. Despite those cuts, the mayor has kept his own take-home car.Share your opinions responsiblyOpinions that are derogatory, attack other users, offer unsubstantiated facts or are offensive in nature will be removed as defined by our . We reserve the right to remove any offensive or off-topic remark or thread. To mark a comment for review by a moderator, click Report Abuse. 
