Two U.K. citizens who allegedly helped Houston-based Kellogg Brown &amp; Root (KBR)  bribe Nigerian officials have been indicted for violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Jeffrey Tesler, 60, of London,  England, and Wojciech Chodan, 71, of Maidenhead, England, were indicted on Feb. 17, 2009 by a federal grand jury sitting in Houston.  The Justice Department didn't announce the indictments until after yesterday's arrest of Tesler by British police, who acted at the request of U.S. authorities. Chodan has not been arrested but faces an outstanding U.S. warrant. The DOJ said it will try to extradite Tesler and Chodan from the U.K. to stand trial in the U.S.Tesler, a lawyer in London, and Chodan, a former employee and consultant of KBR's U.K subsidiary, were charged with one count of conspiracy to violate and ten counts of violating the FCPA. They face up to 55 years in prison if convicted on all counts. The indictment also seeks forfeiture from them of more than $132 million.The indictment says a joint venture that included KBR entered into a series of consulting contracts with a Gibraltar corporation allegedly controlled by Tesler. The joint venture paid the company about $132 million for Tesler to use to bribe Nigerian government officials. The bribes went to Nigerian officials in exchange for contracts for the joint venture to build liquefied natural gas facilities on Bonny  Island, Nigeria worth more than $6 billion. The joint venture, known as TSKJ, was equally owned by KBR, Technip, SA of France, Snamprogetti Netherlands B.V. (a subsidiary of Saipem SpA of Italy) and JGC of Japan.Among the details in the indictment: In August 2002, a KBR representative, using money KBR provided to Tesler, "delivered a pilot's briefcase containing one million U.S. dollars in one-hundred dollar bills to the [Nigerian] Official at a hotel in Abuja, Nigeria, for the benefit of a political party in Nigeria." And in April 2003, a KBR representative "delivered a vehicle containing Nigerian currency valued at approximately $500,000 to the hotel of the [Nigerian] Official in Abuja, Nigeria, for the benefit of a political party in Nigeria, leaving the vehicle in the hotel parking lot until the . . . Official caused the money to be removed."Last month, KBR pleaded guilty to violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. It agreed with the DOJ to pay a $402 million fine. KBR and its former parent company, Halliburton Company, also agreed to pay $177 million in disgorgement to the Securities and Exchange Commission to settle the FCPA offenses. KBR's former CEO, Albert "Jack" Stanley, pleaded guilty in September 2008 to conspiring to violate the FCPA and to mail and wire fraud charges. He has been cooperating with prosecutors. His sentencing is now scheduled for Aug. 27, 2009.   The DOJ said it had help in the case from "authorities in France, Italy, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, including in particular the Serious Fraud Offices Anti-Corruption Unit, the London Metropolitan Police and the City of London Police."The indictment against Tesler and Chodan contains only FCPA charges. Usually the DOJ adds other criminal counts, such as money-laundering, mail and wire fraud.  Relying strictly on alleged antibribery offenses will test the jurisdictional reach of the FCPA over foreign citizens who apparently were not in the U.S. at any times relevant to the charged conduct.In the indictment, Tesler and Chodan are alleged to be "agents" of an issuer and domestic concern within the meaning of the FCPA. (See  15 USC Section 78dd- 1, 78dd-2, and  78dd-3) The FCPA says a foreign company or person is subject to the FCPA if it, he or she takes any act in furtherance of a corrupt payment while within the territory of the United States. See  78dd-3(a), (f)(1). But the DOJ takes an expansive view of this provision.The government's position --untested in court -- is that there's FCPA jurisdiction whenever a foreign company or national acting as an issuer's or domestic concern's agent (wherever they are) cause an act to be done within the territory of the United States in furtherance of a violation. (See the United States Attorneys' Manual, Title 9, Criminal Resource Manual 1018 Prohibited Foreign Corrupt Practices (November 2000 here.)) The indictment says Tesler and Chodan used "means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce" to pay or arrange the bribes to Nigerian officials, principally by sending some of the money through U.S. bank accounts.Another unusual aspect of the indictment is the use of the forfeiture remedy against Tesler and Chodan. (See 28 USC Section 2461, and Title 18 USC Section 981 (a)(l )(C), "all property, real and personal, which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to the violations.") There is no allegation that Tesler and Chodan kept the bribe money provided by KBR for themselves -- in this case $132 million. Instead, they allegedly helped make arrangements for it to be paid to Nigerian officials. But now the U.S. government says it wants them to hand over the money or property derived from it. Jeffrey Tesler was identified in KBR's 2007 annual report. British and French authorities investigated him two years ago but didn't file any charges against him. In 2007, British authorities searched his London office at the request of  U.S. officials.  He is listed as a consultant to a small North London law firm called Kaye Tesler &amp; Co. Among other things, the firm offers anti-money laundering training.The DOJ's March 5, 2009 release can be downloaded here.The federal grand jury's February 17, 2009 indictment of Jeffrey Tesler and Wojciech Chodan can be downloaded here..
