Fumo saga ends with convictionMonessen Valley Independent, PAThe once-powerful former Democrat state senator of Philadelphia was convicted 31 years ago on 15 federal mail fraud counts. It was part of the same case that, the year before, also nabbed the  fella Mr. Fumo succeeded in the  1st Senatorial District, ... Dresden HEALTHMom Charged With Throwing Billiard Ball At Teenage SonTampa Tribune, FL... escalated to the point that she threw the billiard ball at him. Deputies said in the affidavit that as a result of the mother's actions, the teenager ran out of the house, made suicidal threats and was hospitalized under the Florida Mental Health Act. Dresden HEALTHAP Business NewsBrief at 4:11 pm EDTInsurance News Net (press release), PAMortgage fraud reports up 26 percent WASHINGTON (AP) _ A mortgage industry group says there were a record number of mortgage fraud incidents last year, and Rhode Island made its first appearance as the nation's top fraud hot spot. ... Dresden HEALTHIowa senator wants public apology from AIGInsurance News Net (press release), PACharles Grassley suggested on  Monday  that AIG executives should take a Japanese approach toward accepting responsibility for the collapse of the insurance giant by resigning or killing themselves. The Republican lawmaker's harsh comments came during an ... Dresden HEALTHMaytas seeks more time for Metro Rail financial closureSINDH TODAY, PakistanMaytas came under cloud after Ramalinga Raju in January this year admitted Rs.78-billion (Rs.7800-crore) fraud in Satyam. There are allegations that he diverted the money to Maytas owned by his son B. Teja Raju, but Maytas has denied it. ... Dresden HEALTHGrants DirectorThird Sector, UKAn understanding of developing trends within the social care and health environments is highly desirable. To apply please send your CV and covering letter saying why you would like the post and what qualities you have that would make you the ideal ... Dresden HEALTHAP Entertainment NewsBrief at 10:14 am EDTInsurance News Net (press release), PAAP Online Reports: Natasha Richardson in critical condition MONTREAL (AP) _ British actress Natasha Richardson is in critical condition in a Montreal hospital after being severely injured in a skiing accident in Quebec, according to published reports. ... Dresden HEALTHEurope's 25 RichestWirtualna Polska, PolandThe Czech Republic's Petr Kellner moves up the ranks thanks to his smart bet to sell his stake in his CZIH insurance company to Italian giant Generali last year, valuing company at $5.6 billion at height of insurance boom in Eastern Europe. ... Dresden HEALTHPawsPlus Announces Double-Digit Sales Increases for VETCO ...Market Wire (press release)VETCO's affordable pet health care attracts a wider range of clients in tough economic times as consumers look for ways to save money on their licensed Veterinary care. VETCO offers consumers a fresh approach to the traditional pet hospital model. ... Dresden HEALTH  ...
