Madoff seeks to keep NYC penthouse and $62M in bonds and cash ...Minneapolis Star Tribune, MNBy LARRY NEUMEISTER , AP AP Source: GM may buy Delphi steering operations NEW YORK - Bernard Madoff is seeking to keep a $7 million Manhattan penthouse and an additional $62 million in assets, saying they are unrelated to the fraud that authorities say ... in UNUM US News &gt;IMF on PDICBusiness Mirror, PhilippinesWith just about P3 billion in capital contribution from the national government, The Philippine Deposit Insurance Corp. (PDIC) is deemed in need of more capital, especially in view of the Legacy Group of banks failure. This capital-raising exercise was ... in UNUM US News &gt;Leaders must deliver on efficienciesCourier Mail, AustraliaBut the state kept spending and borrowing, initially in a mad scramble to catch-up in long-neglected areas of essential services - from health to water, roads and education - but more recently, the Government has said, to protect and create jobs. ... in UNUM US News &gt;Can Heart Scan Save Your Life?NBC Washington, DCInsurance companies don't cover these scans for go reasons. Primarily, they do not show perfusion, only calcifications. A better way to go, which is covered by insurance, is a nuclear stress test, which will show deficiencies in perfusion foll . ... in UNUM US News &gt;AgStar earnings dropPost-Bulletin, MNAgStar posted double-digit percentage increases in loan volume, crop insurance  revenues and operating income. But AgStar also reported the year-to-date average daily balance of loans/leases outstanding has increased 19 percent. ... in UNUM US News &gt;Bail out working, AIG soon  wont be too big to failScappleFace (satire)... any time by clicking the Columns link at the top of the page. by Scott Ott, Examiner Columnist The Treasury Department announced today that the bail out of AIG Insurance, which began in September under the Bush administration, is working better ... in UNUM US News &gt;Contra Costa County considering health care cutsMonterey County Herald, CAContra Costa County officials are considering cutting health care services for illegal immigrants and jail inmates as a way to reduce costs. Health officials have proposed a plan they say would save about $6 million a year by ending the county's ... in UNUM US News &gt;Please help Greenpeace fight against the destruction of whales.  Click here for more information &gt;
