Devicor Medical Products Actively Seeking First AcquisitionPR-CANADA.net (press release), MontenegroTom Daulton, the former Cardinal Health executive recently tapped  to head Devicor Medical Products, LLC, announced today that Devicor is actively seeking its first acquisition as it begins building a market-leading medical device company in the highly ... Cayucos HEALTHFed considers how to lift country out of recessionMonterey County Herald, CA... International Group Inc.bailed at four times by the US government  to the tune of more than $170 billionpaid $165 million in bonuses to employees who worked in a division that has been blamed for the insurance company's near collapse last year. ... Cayucos HEALTHCongress looking at huge taxes on AIG bonusesWBT, NCNew York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said the company had paid bonuses of $1 million or more to 73 employees,  including 11 who no longer work for the failed insurance giant. As lawmakers raised their voices on TV, administration officials moved to ... Cayucos HEALTHCardinal George Urges Catholics to Tell Administration: Keep ...PR-CANADA.net (press release), MontenegroCardinal Francis George is urging Catholics in the United States to tell the Obama Administration to retain Health and Human Services regulations governing conscience protections for health care workers. This is vital to keep the government from ... Cayucos HEALTHNY Attorney General Gets Tough with AIGToTheCenter.com, NYNew York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo joined the  enormous wave of outrage against fledgling insurance giant AIG. Cuomo issued a subpoena to acquire a list of the names of executives slated to receive $165 million in bonuses. ... Cayucos HEALTHTroubled Florida banks jumped more than 70 percent, agency saysTCPalm, FLAccounts in a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are protected to a point. Congress has temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100000 to $250000 per depositor through Dec. 31. A takeover by the FDIC is the most dramatic way ... Cayucos HEALTHDeepika Padukone to endorse chewing gum OrbitMangalorean.com, IndiaIt is for the first time that the brand has partnered with a film actor to promote oral health benefits, a statement said. "Deepika's association with Orbit will synchronise well with the brand and its objectives. We believe that this association would ... Cayucos HEALTHHolding on to your talent in hard timesNew Zealand Herald, New ZealandOne organisation that has to struggle with paying less than the commercial rate for staff is the Mental Health Foundation. Its CEO Judi Clements says her organisation attracts many good people because they are given a satisfying and supportive work ... Cayucos HEALTHTask Force Recommends Using Aspirin to Prevent Cardiovascular ...PR-CANADA.net (press release), MontenegroThe Task Force reviewed new evidence from the National Institutes of Health's Women's Health Study published since the last Task Force review of this topic in 2002, including a recent  meta-analysis of the risks and benefits of aspirin and found aspirin ... Cayucos HEALTH  ...
