After 5 months with no job, woman clings to hopeCNN InternationalAs a manager with a life insurance settlement company, Sury was not too worried at first. Knowing the economy was bad, Sury still believed she would find a job because she has so much to offer a company. "I had high hopes and dreams and never in my ... Broadmoor HEALTHAIG policyholderMarketplace, CAQuestion: I'm the beneficiary on  a traditional life insurance policy (ie the basic AIG business) on the lives of my parents who are still alive. What protections are there on the beneficiary in various scenarios that might happen to AIG including ... Broadmoor HEALTHIronshore Names Kostro as Vice President of New Underwriting UnitInsurance Journal, CAPrior to joining Ironshore, Kostro spent over 19 years in the commercial insurance industry where she held various casualty underwriting and management positions. Most recently, Susan was Vice President of Casualty at Lexington Insurance Co.  where her ... Broadmoor HEALTHNew CEO to take helm at AARP; continues work on health care that ...WHNT, ALBut its new CEO says the group's central issue of health care reform makes it an advocate for every age group. "This is an issue about the American dream," said Barry Rand, who takes over the 40-million-member AARP on April  6. "We either reinforce the ... Broadmoor HEALTHLawmakers offer new tools in financial fraud fightMSN MoneyWASHINGTON (AP) - Lawmakers appeared eager to provide fresh funding and possible new authority to law enforcement agencies pursuing fraud in the financial  crisis, as government officials on Friday detailed efforts to counter rising abuses with already ... Broadmoor HEALTH$1 trillion deficits seen  for next 10 yearskwgn.com, COThe latest figures, even worse than expected by top Democrats, throw a major monkey wrench into efforts to enact Obama's budget, which promises universal health care for all and higher spending for domestic programs like education and research into ... Broadmoor HEALTH  ...
