     A bank that many economists have deemed too big to fail also has an eye for detail. Citigroup Inc., the New York-based financial services company, filed a complaint on Feb. 27 to boot an alleged "cybersquatter" its attorney says used the Citibank.org domain name illegally.  Janet Hajek, of counsel in Greenberg Traurigs intellectual property and technology practice group in Washington, D.C., represents Citigroup. Hajeks complaint states that a Nepalese registrant used a Canadian domain-name registrar called Rebel.com to claim rights to the Citibank.org domain name and operated a Web site at Citibank.org advertising a business that competes with Citigroup. The compliant goes on to say that Citigroup has suffered, and continues to suffer, irreparable harm to its reputation and goodwill from the ongoing use of the Citibank.org domain name. That Web site, apparently, has since been taken down.   Citigroup owns the CITI and CITIBANK trademarks and uses similar domain names such as Citi.com, Citibank.com, and Citibankonline.com for its online banking Web sites. According to the complaint, Citigroup wants the Public Interest Registry in Virginia, where the Citibank.org domain name resides, to reregister the disputed name under Citigroup Inc. using the companys registrar of preference.   The complaint also states that Citigroup brings the suit under the in rem provisions of the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, essentially suing the domain name itself, because the plaintiff cant get personal jurisdiction over the foreign registrant. Although the jurisdiction problem may limit Citigroups options for relief, with so much firepower pointed at the Citibank.org domain name, no attorney has yet filed to represent it. The case, Citigroup Inc. v. Citibank.org, was assigned to Judge Liam OGrady of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia.    Greenberg Traurig is no stranger to these sorts of controversies. Paul McGrady Jr., a shareholder in the firms media and telecommunications practice, literally wrote the LexisNexis-anointed book on domain-name disputes. Its called McGrady on Domain Names: A Global Guide to Disputes, Registration, and Maintenance.     
