Top Story It appears that a successful coup has been carried out in Madagascar as an aide tells reporters that President Marc Ravalomanana will step down and hand over power to the military. A formal declaration is expected soon.Soldiers loyal to opposition leader Andry Rajoelina occupied the empty presidential palace in the capital Antananarivo yesterday after Ravalomanana fled the country. Roajoelina will move into the presidential office today. The African Union will hold a meeting in two days to discuss the situation in Madagascar.FP's Elizabeth Dickinson has background on the turmoil in Madagascar here and here. Middle EastIsrael and Hamas failed to reach a deal for the release of captured IDF soldier Gilad Shalit. The U.S. says it shot down an Iranian drone over Iraqi territory last month. U.S. troops accidentally killed a 12-year-old Iraqi girl with a warning shot at a police checkpoint. AsiaThousands of Pakistanis celebrated after the reinstatement of Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudry. But another crisis could be brewing. North Korea has reopened a key border crossing to the South. Sri Lanka is refusing to accept any conditions on a proposed IMF loan. AfricaWhile visiting Cameroon on his first trip to Africa, Pope Benedict XVI said that distributing condoms is not the answer to fighting the spread of HIV.Refugee camps in Darfur are struggling after the expulsion of international aid groups. Political violence is escalating in Sierra Leone. EuropeRussian President Dmitry Medvedev said Russia is launching a $140 billion military buildup. He has clearly not been reading Travis Sharp.Finland's Nokia, the world's largest cell phone company, is cutting 1,700 jobs worldwide. Irish and Northern Irish political leaders will meet with President Obama at the White House in honor of St. Patrick's Day. Northern Ireland's increasing violence is expected to be on the agenda. AmericasObama vowed to "pursue every legal avenue to block" bailed-out insurance giant AIG from paying executive bonuses. El Salvador's new leftist president said he is looking forward to working with Washington. In retaliation for restrictions on Mexican truckers in the United States, the Mexican government is putting tariffs on 90 American products. ALEXANDER JOE/AFP/Getty Images 
