 SunTrust Mortgage Inc. ranks first in customer satisfaction among the nation&amp;#8217;s mortgage-origination businesses, according to J.D. Power and Associates. Atlanta-based SunTrust received an overall score of 790 of 1,000 possible points in Power&amp;#8217;s primary mortgage origination study. Atlanta Business Chronicle Here&amp;#8217;s my take on SunTrust . . . Being based in Atlanta real estate along with SunTrust for what seems like a lifetime, I must concur that the folks at SunTrust are real pros. My association was more in construction loan originations where SunTrust stabled the crme de la crme of the Atlanta builder population. As a matter of fact when a buyer of a new home wanted to know about the financial stability of a builder, we could say &amp;#8220;they are a SunTrust builder.&amp;#8221; The punch line being that you could only get construction loans from SunTrust if you didn&amp;#8217;t need the money.That was in the good old days. Now builders have no money and can&amp;#8217;t beg, borrow or steal a construction loan or a buyer.SunTrust also carried the same conservative mortgage lending philosophy for home mortgages. They were not very competitive as a mortgage lender, at least to the off-the-street customer. But their conservative underwriting guidelines probably saved them from much of the stress from the subprime fallout. The point being that SunTrust dealt with the upper echelon borrowers and was well paid for their service.Congratulations to SunTrust.The rest of the story is that Wachovia (obviously prior to) ranked third with a score of 786 and Bank of America came in fifth with 764 points. Last year Wachovia was first. What a difference a year makes.The average score was 757.The study measured customer satisfaction in four areas:Problem resolutionInteraction with the loan representativeApplication approvalClosingClick here to see the results for each of these categories. The results are based on responses from 4,256 consumers who originated mortgages in the year ending in June.From J.D. Powers press release:"The study finds that customers have higher levels of satisfaction and are more committed to their lender when the loan officer takes the uncertainty out of the mortgage origination experience by setting expectations, proactively communicating and maintaining personal contact with them during the loan process. For example, customers have considerably higher levels of satisfaction when their loan officer provides a time frame for their application approval. "Similarly, customers are more satisfied when status updates are provided, last-minute requests for information are limited, mortgage servicing options are discussed, and when loan officers meet with customers in person and attend the closing. In addition, customers who report being highly committed to their lender as a result of a superior origination experience are two and a half times more likely to recommend the lender to others and to use the lender for another mortgage. These highly committed customers also use twice the number of additional financial services with their lender, on average, compared with customers with lower commitment levels.&amp;#8220; 'Many customers blame financial institutions for the current economic situation, and many also have doubts about their futures,' said Tim Ryan, director of the financial services practice at J.D. Power and Associates. 'In such an uncertain environment, it becomes especially important for lenders to re-establish trust with customers through the loan officer relationship. About one-half of mortgage customers express some level of doubt about whether their loan representatives are acting in an ethical and honest manner and in their best interest, which indicates an opportunity for higher levels of satisfaction through an improved customer-lender relationship.' &amp;#8221;The study also finds that customers can improve the quality of their experience when obtaining a mortgage by keeping the following guidelines in mind: As part of the selection process, ask whether the loan will be sold or its servicing transferred&amp;#8212;and if so, how billing, payment, and escrow management might be affected. Ask for a full explanation of the entire process from application to closing (e.g., what the steps are, what will be required, expected timeframes). Discuss the initial estimate of closing costs in detail, and determine which of the costs could change and why. Request updates or status reports at key junctures in the process&amp;#8212;for instance, when preliminary approval has been given or when the appraisal is complete.Prior to closing, ask to review and get an explanation of the following: the closing document; final closing costs; and billing and payment options. Customer satisfaction was higher for 2008 than 2007, attributed to lower customer expectation.   
