Singapore is ripe for an economic renaissance  by attracting bankers from all over the world, writes a Financial Times columnist.  I am not sure all those people who lost a fortune on Lehman Brothers products sold in Singapore would welcome an invasion of bankers and their money-making schemes.  But though Singapore leaders now blame toxic US mortgages for the global economic mess, Singapore sovereign wealth funds bought shares in banks dealing in those mortgages. As I mentioned in my previous post, the New York Times reports: Bank of America had considered purchasing Merrill some 10 months ago but found its mortgage exposure too unpredictable.  But the Singapore sovereign wealth fund, Temasek Holdings, bought about 10 percent of Merrill for $5 billion between December and February. And later it raised its stake to 13-14 percent by investing another $3.4 billion, including the $2.5 billion it received from Merrill Lynch for earlier losses, reports Bloomberg. Bankers will love Singapore, says the Financial Times columnist.  Singapore can offer excellent infrastructure, an attractive if occasionally oppressive climate, excellent housing, a nice airline for reaching the far corners of the earth and an eager ear to new business ideas. All of that talent in New York, London, Amsterdam and Frankfurt can offer Singapore the bodies and brains it requires to create the new entrepreneur class it desperately needs. The government authorities may not want to market it this way but Singapore could position itself as a spiritual, tropical outpost with super high-speed broadband for bankers who want to find themselves and chart a new career trajectory    Like virtually every other city on earth at the moment, Singapore is also hoping to woo top creative talent (architects, fashion designers, animators and digital illustrators - - this means you) to diversify its economic base and potentially to inspire the next generation of Singaporeans to think about the sort of careers that were once off the national curriculum.   Yet rather than focusing on building a hothouse for creative minds, Singapore should bring in all the best financial whizz kids and play to its great national strength -- service. Marry all those under-utilised MBAs to work on a new strategy that also gives them a little licence to indulge their more artistic side as well and Singapore could be ripe for an economic renaissance If Singapore could own service, education and training as a key element of its national brand, it would fill a niche that only Japan can currently lay claim to.  Its certainly an idea worth exploring as long as Singapore can find a way to stop the bankers from getting their more hare-brained schemes off the ground.      
