At the OMMA and MIXX events last month we heard the message loud and clear  engaging users through social media is the future of marketing.  The Managing Partner of Publicis&amp;#8217; VivaKi, David Kenny indicated never in his career has he seen a more effective medium for building brand affinity.  Panel after panel mentioned the value of social marketing. Yet surprisingly few seemed to know how to ask the next question or take a next step. The Web is shifting from a solitary experience to a social one.  Today there are over 500 million members of social networks worldwide.  Users spend hours engaged on social networks connecting with friends, meeting new people, viewing photos, playing games, etc. Banner ads on social networks can still play a role in building awareness for a brand, as a broad media buy with a social network can have broad reach.  But there&amp;#8217;s a significant revenue gap between brand awareness and brand affinity. What Happens After the Click? Even Facebook, with its engagement ads, seems to be falling short.  Less than 10 minutes into the Sheryl Sandberg-led Facebook panel at Advertising Week, when asked what the next big thing will be on Facebook, what did the group of agencies on the panel say?  Branded applications. Everyone is asking the same questions  what happens after a user clicks on my ad?  What is the user experience AFTER the click? Is the user taken to a page outside Facebook?  That&amp;#8217;s where most ads go.  The problem is that most users don&amp;#8217;t WANT to leave Facebook.  So they come right back to where they were. And if you&amp;#8217;re lucky enough for them to stay, congratulations, but you&amp;#8217;ve taken the user out of the environment where they&amp;#8217;re able to easily communicate and share your brand with their friends.  What&amp;#8217;s social about that? So instead follow Facebook&amp;#8217;s advice and send them to a brand Page.  But what does the user do on the page?  How compelling is the post-click experience?  Without some investment the user will likely see a rather generic page, hardly differentiated or strongly branded, with little to engage with.  Hopefully the user becomes a &amp;#8216;fan&amp;#8217; of the brand, but why would the user return?  How are users empowered to share brand messages with their friends?  Has the Page not only built brand awareness but grown brand affinity? Creating Social Opportunities Or perhaps you take the plunge, follow the advice of Publicis&amp;#8217;s David Kenny and the agencies on Facebook&amp;#8217;s panel, and you build a branded application to engage users in a social context.  The application is viral so users naturally share with friends.  With the branded application the reach of the media buy is extended as each user shares with their friends, so even after the ads stop there is an active community of advocates sharing brand messages that not only build brand awareness but build brand affinity within their social circles. The best solution for brand marketing on social networks combines a media buy for reach with a compelling application to provide branded engagement.  Applications that build on the developer platform as a marketing channel for brand messages have the power to not only grow brand awareness but also build brand affinity.  Applications that provide utility and entertainment, when shared with friends, not only spread brand messages, but the social connections help brands build brand affinity within the community on the social network. Ultimately, successful applications empower users to become brand advocates, sharing their brand affinity with friends. Kevin Barenblat is co-founder and CEO of Context Optional, a leading social marketing company providing scalable solutions for brand marketing on social networks.  This year the company has worked with over twenty Fortune 500 brands such as Bank of America, Kraft, Ford, McDonald&amp;#8217;s, Kellogg&amp;#8217;s and Electronic Arts on Facebook, MySpace, Bebo, and the iPhone. Imagery provided by iStock/kutaytanir ---Related Articles at Mashable   All That's New on the Web:Social Media Marketing Summit is Almost HereHear Chris Brogan Speak at the New Marketing SummitHear Seth Godin and David Meerman Scott at the Inbound Marketing SummitAttend SMX Social Media Marketing: Mashable Readers Save 15%MySpace is Old, MySpace Marketing Isn&amp;#8217;tSocial Network Ad Spending to Reach $2.5 Billion in 2011Affiliate Summit Social Media 2008 is in Two Weeks            
