Economists react to the Chinese governments new plan to boost spending to reverse a slowdown in economic growth. The governments Chinese-language statement announcing the plan can be found here.  &amp;#8211;The world is expected to put more pressure on China to come up with money, and more money, to rescue the global economy. China&amp;#8217;s position has been that keeping its own growth strong and stable is China&amp;#8217;s best contribution to the global economy. By announcing such a huge fiscal stimulus, China is showing the world that 1) it is really serious in terms of keeping domestic growth strong; 2) China need to keep and spend the money at home to keep its own growth strong. -Frank Gong, J.P. Morgan &amp;#8211;Considerable uncertainties over the ultimate size of the stimulus still remain despite the headlines that are being quoted in the press. Certainly, this announcement does not imply the government will spend 4 trillion yuan of extra investments over the next two yearsThe 4 trillion yuan investment cost is a gross concept in the sense some of the investment would have been made without the stimulus package anyway. The amount of extra investments involved is still not clear at this point. -Song Yu, Goldman Sachs &amp;#8211;China has the ability to finance the fiscal spending as public debt is only about 20%. We expect China to run a fiscal deficit of 2.5% of its GDP in 2009-10 We reiterate our view that despite the rapidly slowing demand (both domestic and external) in China, expansionary government policies in China could prevent growth from falling below 8.0% in 2009. -Ting Lu and T.J. Bond, Merrill Lynch &amp;#8211;Its speed, not size, that matters. There is still a risk that an increasingly market-driven economy corrects faster than the fiscal package can be implemented. We need to see evidence in the coming months that the fiscal package is either spurring demand or bolstering sentiment. -Ben Simpfendorfer, Royal Bank of Scotland &amp;#8211;There will be some lag before the actual spending and its multiplier effect work through the economy. We expect that the stimulus&amp;#8217; impact on the economy will become more visible in the second half of 2009. Nevertheless, the package amounts to a significant boost to investment from what would otherwise be the case in 2009, and it implies a significant fiscal deficit over the next two years. More measures are likely to be formulated and included in the budget for 2009, to be approved by the National People&amp;#8217;s Congress in March, including tax reduction measures, in our view. -Wensheng Peng, Barclays Capital &amp;#8211;Increasing government investment in public housing is placed at the top of the 10-point plan, and we believe this could easily reach 100 billion yuan in 2009. We have long held that reinvigorating housing investment is critical to stimulating domestic demand, and that the government will have to increase its own spending to help increase supply in the lower and middle end of the residential property market. The governments spending alone will unlikely pull investment of the overall housing sector, and credit and land policy support would be needed to encourage more private sector investment in the mass market. -Tao Wang, UBS &amp;#8211;Andrew Batson
