The insurance sector in India is ready for two major reforms: first, an increase in foreign direct investment (FDI) from 26 per cent to 49 per cent and second, freedom of product design.  Once the insurance industry was opened to private players in 2000, several joint ventures with foreign insurance companies were formed in India, including Tata AIG, ICICI Lombard, Iffco-Tokio and HDFC Chubb.  In all these joint ventures, the foreign companies equity participation is restricted to 26 per cent. The Finance Minister had announced in the 2006 Budget that FDI in the insurance sector would be increased to 49 per cent. The minister recently got Cabinet approval for this, so it is likely to become law very soon. Let us consider the implications.  As private companies increase their business, they have to increase their capital as well to meet the additional solvency margin requirement. More than anywhere else, this is needed in the case of life insurance companies, as the industry has shown exponential growth since the opening of the sector, thereby creating a need for more capital. In all these ventures, the management of these companies was mostly left to the foreign companies. Therefore, it was too much to expect the silent Indian partner to infuse additional capital into these companies, especially with none of them making net profits so far. The foreign insurer wanted to infuse additional capital but did not have statutory permission. Hence, the enabling provision will allow foreign insurers to bring in more capital.  In any case, all these companies have to dilute the Indian partners holding by 2010-11 by entering the market with an IPO. All these companies have been looking at top line growth, which will facilitate better valuation, thereby enabling larger premium for their IPOs. Hence, it is fair to expect the Indian partner to offload additional holdings to the foreign partner only at a premium today. Considering the present turmoil in the financial markets, which has affected all the global insurers, those who have partnerships here are pressed for additional funds. So it is a vital question whether they are willing to invest more money now, especially when the local partner will be expecting to make a premium on a venture that is yet to make profit. Due to pressure on premium rates, all the insurance companies are making huge underwriting losses which, combined with the downward trend in the investment market, does not allow them to get a good income. Hence the scenario for at least a year is quite bleak from the point of making profits. It is anybody's guess how many partners will be willing to increase equity.  However, it makes no difference as far as the common man insured is concerned, as the entire entity is regulated by Irda.  Meanwhile, freedom in pricing of insurance, except for vehicles, has been in effect since 1 January, 2007. This has been a bonanza for all consumers, more so for large industrial houses, which take fire and engineering policies in a big way. These two segments have attracted unprecedented discounts in the premium rates resulting in negative growth of fire premium in 2007-08. In the current financial year also, this trend continues and the consumer enjoys further reduction in rates.  In the absence of another alternative to compete in the marketother than pricingthe insurance companies are forced to reduce rates continuously. Hence they have been pleading with the regulator to be permitted to design policies. This has not been allowed so far. On 7 November this year, Irda announced initial liberalisation in some types of policies including fire and motor accidents.  This first dose of liberalisation should be followed by full-scale liberty in designing any policy. We introduced brokers in the insurance market back in 2000, to design specific policies to suit the requirements of different consumers. Unless this freedom is allowed, the broker cannot play the professional role expected of him.;  The author is CMD, Oriental Insurance  feedback@outlookmoney.com  In the absence of ways to compete, other than pricing, insurers have to reduce rates continuously. They need freedom to design policies  
