2. Insurers' investments take a hit as financial crisis worsens  Mark A. Hofmann  American International Group Inc. was not the only insurer to suffer significant financial damage as a result of the economic downturn.  AIG, of course, went to the brink of bankruptcy before being rescued by the federal government. But by the end of the year, other insurers took steps to tap federal resources as well.  In fact, Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. bought a Florida savings bank to qualify for up to $3.4 billion in federal bailout funds. Hartford reported a $2.63 billion third-quarter loss.  A dozen major U.S. commercial property/casualty insurers reported a $34.06 billion loss for the nine months that ended Sept. 30, according to a Business Insurance survey.  Even excluding AIG's $37.63 billion loss, the remaining insurers reported a 73.2% drop in net income, to $3.57 billion, compared with the year-earlier period. Two other insurers also reported losses while the remaining nine reported double-digit declines in net income.  Elsewhere, Europe's three largest reinsurers saw their third-quarter earnings plummet due to poor investment returns and heavy catastrophe claims.  Munich Reinsurance Co., the world's largest reinsurer, saw its profit for the three months ending Sept. 30 plummet by 99% to e12 million ($16.9 million), while rival Swiss Reinsurance Co. posted a 304 million Swiss franc ($277.2 million) loss for the three-month period. Hannover Reinsurance Group slid to a loss of e142.8 million ($201.4 million) for the period.  Despite the losses, property/casualty insurers tended to fare better than other financial institutions, including life insurers. Except for AIG, most property/casualty insurers weren't greatly affected by the subprime mortgage meltdown. But insurers tend to invest in fixed-income securities, such as corporate and municipal bonds, both of which have dropped in value as the financial crisis worsened.  Property/casualty insurers in general remained leery of participating in federal bailout plans. Although some life insurers attempted to qualify for federal backup, the property/casualty industry's major trade associations remained steadfastly opposed to having property/casualty insurers seek the federal aid available to other financial institutions as the year drew to a close.  
