(Adds comments by China Merchants Bank, last three paragraphs)  By Zhou Xin  BEIJING, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Chinese insurance firms should focus on improving their own businesses and supporting efforts to stimulate the domestic economy, not on buying cheap assets overseas, the industry's top watchdog said on Saturday.  A manager at China Life (2628.HK: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) (601628.SS: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), the world's biggest life insurer by market value, told Reuters last month that the firm was interested in buying Asian businesses of American International Group Inc (AIG.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz).  AIG, once the world's biggest insurer, is putting its non-essential assets up for sale after receiving a $152 billion bailout from the U.S. government to avoid bankruptcy as it reels from the global credit crisis.  Asked at a financial forum whether insurers should venture outwards by buying assets of insurers such as AIG, Wu Dingfu, chairman of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, said: 'In my personal opinion, it looks tempting, but if you really do it, there will still be lots of difficulties involved.' Wu said that there had much discussion over the issue, and some domestic insurers had proposed making such purchases. 'The conclusion is, at present, domestic insurers should grasp the opportunity to get their own things done well,' he said. Chinese insurers still have many things to improve in their own businesses, including basic infrastructure such as information technology systems, corporate governance, and providing better services so as to support the domestic economy, Wu said. 'It looks like we have lots of money, but actually there are many places to spend it. At this critical moment, the money should be spent where it can be put to best use,' he said. BUYING MORE STOCKS  Wu encouraged insurers to put more of their money into China's stock markets, which have taken a battering this year in the wake of the financial crisis and China's own economic slowdown.  Wu noted that insurers had only around 8 percent of their assets in shares, well below a government-mandated limit of 15 percent that he suggested was itself flexible. 'Even for the 15 percent, we could still raise it a little bit,' he said. Continued...  The global recession manifests itself in big and small ways, most gloomy, some quirky and often reflecting the inventive human spirit. Full Article  A selection of our best photos from the past 24 hours. Slideshow  Did we in the media do our job in reporting on the run-up to the economic crisis? Now that the depth of the crisis is becoming clearer around the world, are we keeping things in perspective? Blog  Reuters.com:  Intern
