  NEW YORKInsurer American International Group Inc. said Wednesday it purchased $16 billion of complex financial instruments in an effort to further reduce its exposure to insurance guarantees written against them.   AIG bought about $16 billion in investments known as collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, through a financing company set up by the insurer and the government to help relieve AIG of its exposure to the riskiest portion of the credit markets.   By purchasing the CDOs, AIG has eliminated its exposure to insurance-like contracts, called credit default swaps, written to cover defaults on the CDOs. 'It's a positive as it further reduces AIG's exposure to losses on its credit default swaps portfolio,' AIG spokesman Nicholas Ashooh said.   CDOs are securities backed by pools of mortgages or other assets. They have plummeted in value since the credit crisis erupted more than a year ago as investors fled all but the safest forms of debt. Credit default swaps are essentially contracts that insure against the default of bonds and corporate debt such as CDOs. Sellers of swaps, such as AIG, are obligated to repay customers if the value of the underlying bonds or debt declines.   By purchasing the underlying bonds, AIG has eliminated the need to make payments on the swap contracts it wrote.   The writing of swaps contracts was one of the reasons why AIG nearly collapsed in September before it was bailed out by government loans. An Advertisementinitial $85 billion loan package AIG received from the government in September was later replaced with a $150 billion loan package.   Part of that package was set up to help AIG purchase CDOs in an effort to terminate swap contracts on what are considered the riskiest CDOsthose backed by residential mortgage-backed securities. The government and AIG set up a company called Maiden Lane III LLC that purchases CDOs to eliminate swaps contracts. The $16 billion in recently purchased CDOs are now held in the Maiden Lane entity.   The $16 billion purchase was the second made this month by AIG and the government. On Dec. 2, $53.5 billion of CDOs were purchased to cut AIG's exposure to other swaps contracts it had written.   AIG still has $12.3 billion in remaining exposure to the risky CDOs through swaps contracts.   Under the government lending agreement, Maiden Lane will hold the CDOs until they are paid off or default. Ashooh said that most of the CDOs are still performing and meeting payment obligations.   As Maiden Lane III receives cash from the CDOs, the money is first used to repay the government's portion of the loan. Once that is repaid, AIG's funding for Maiden Lane III will be repaid. Any additional money made on ownership of the CDOs will be split between the government and AIG, with the government receiving two-thirds of the excess capital and AIG receiving the rest.   Shares of AIG rose a penny to close at $1.56. 
