 Angry eBay sellers labelled the auction site &amp;quot;monolithic and dictatorial&amp;quot; at a conference convened today to help the competition regulator decide whether to allow eBay to force all sellers to use only PayPal for accepting electronic payments.      The conference was supposed to give eBay and the aggrieved sellers a final chance to persuade the Australian Competition and Computer Commission to accept their view, however, eBay virtually refused to participate in the discussion.      The ACCC already signalled its intentions to reject the policy earlier this month on the grounds it would lessen competition in the online payments market and deny consumers choice.      The regulator is now accepting further submissions from the public before its July 3 deadline, after which it will make a final decision.      The controversial policy will mean all items must be paid for using PayPal - which eBay owns - or cash on delivery/pick-up. Direct bank deposits, cheques and money orders will all be barred.      The policy, which will increase fees for sellers because PayPal charges them for each transaction, was originally slated to come into effect on June 17 but eBay has since postponed the move until after the ACCC has made its final decision.      At the conference today, sellers rejected eBay&amp;#039;s claims that PayPal was significantly safer than other payment methods and insisted that eBay allow them choice over what payment method they used.      &amp;quot;I think that if they were allowed to perform this kind of a restricted trading arrangement, then two years from now when you go to Woolies to get your groceries, you&amp;#039;re going to have to use a Woolworths credit card, and you&amp;#039;re going to have to pay them for the privilege,&amp;quot; said Bill Gessner, who has been a casual eBay trader for over four years.      In addition to hundreds of sellers, The Reserve Bank of Australia and the Australian Bankers Association wrote to the ACCC to complain about eBay&amp;#039;s proposed policy. But only sellers chose to speak at the conference today.      eBay Australia managing director Simon Smith, visibly frustrated by the number of barbs fired in his direction, read from a prepared statement and would not answer any further questions.      Smith did not present any new arguments to the ACCC, saying again that the eBay policy was driven by the need to enhance security.      He said buyers were four times less likely to end up in a dispute with a seller if they used PayPal to pay for an item. He argued that without the PayPal-only policy both eBay and sellers would lose out because people would leave eBay.      In response, seller Anthony Green said: &amp;quot;The reality is that a payment method is only as safe as the person making the payment.&amp;quot;      Dale Clapperton, chair of the online users&amp;#039; lobby group Electronic Frontiers Australia, said people would not leave eBay altogether if they were defrauded on the site. Instead, they would rationally opt for a different payment method in future and didn&amp;#039;t need their hand forced by eBay.      Graham Bowen, an eBay seller who flew down from Queensland to read a statement signed by 1860 eBay users, stressed that people should be able to select a payment method on their own. If other methods were locked out, PayPal would have no incentive to keep its fees low.      &amp;quot;It is interesting to note that there has been no outcry among eBay users to have enhanced security, let alone to have PayPal as the only effective method of payment,&amp;quot; he said.      &amp;quot;It is the Australian way to support having choices - I am seventh generation by the way - which as the ACCC has pointed out, we&amp;#039;re well able to make for ourselves.&amp;quot;      Green noted that, already, all material on eBay&amp;#039;s site conveyed the message that payment methods other than PayPal were not safe and did not have appropriate fraud protections.      &amp;quot;This is tantamount to tricking buyers into believing they have no alternative but to use PayPal,&amp;quot; Green said.      Many sellers complained that PayPal&amp;#039;s customer service was lacking. They warned that overseas-based PayPal, unlike banks, did not have an overarching watchdog buyers could contact to complain or appeal decisions.      Some sellers questioned whether eBay and PayPal had the financial reserves to withstand a &amp;quot;run on the bank&amp;quot; should a large number of users choose to pull money out of their PayPal accounts at once.      Clapperton compared eBay&amp;#039;s policy to a Ford car dealer forcing a buyer to have their car serviced only at authorised repair shops.      &amp;quot;eBay&amp;#039;s argument seems to boil down to the fact that their users aren&amp;#039;t smart enough to choose the best payment option according to how eBay define what the best option is, and therefore for their own good that choice must be forced upon them,&amp;quot; he said.      Original link:  http://www.smh.com.au/news/biztech/e...e#contentSwap1  
