The Montgomery County Planning Board has accepted a 5.8-acre addition to Rock Creek Regional Park in Derwood. The land was a gift from Thressa C. Stadtman, a biochemist who worked at the National Institutes of Health.  Stadtman's late husband, Earl R. Stadtman, was regarded as one of the great biochemists of the 20th century. He died in January. Both Stadtmans were at NIH for more than half a century.  The property adjacent to Rock Creek Stream Valley Park along Mill Creek was valued at more than $1 million in January 2006, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission said in a statement. Features of the land include mature forest, steep slopes, flood plain and wetlands, and a perennial stream, parks officials said.  The site also includes a locally significant modern movement house built in 1961 and about 1,000 azaleas planted by Earl Stadtman. Thressa Stadtman will continue to live in the house.  Parks officials said the tract will be named the Stadtman Preserve and will be permanently protected from development. Montgomery County police and the FBI are investigating the robbery of a Germantown bank. Soon after the Bank of America branch on Germantown Road opened yesterday morning, a man passed a threatening note to a teller that demanded money. He obtained an undisclosed amount of money and walked out the front door, according to police.  The man was described as 5-foot-6, 160 pounds and in his 40s. He wore jeans, a gray-and-green plaid long-sleeve shirt and a light-colored baseball cap.  Police said the robbery is not related to a series of recent bank robberies that they believe have been committed by the same person.  Anyone with information about yesterday's robbery is asked to call the department's anonymous tip line at 301-279-8000. A District man was killed in a shooting Friday night near a furniture store in Temple Hills, authorities said yesterday.  Taij D. Payne, 31, of the 2900 block of Pomeroy Road SE was found in the 2300 block of Iverson Street. He was shot in the upper body and pronounced dead at the scene, said Cpl. Mike Rodriguez, a police spokesman. Detectives have not identified a suspect or motive in the slaying, Rodriguez said. A Landover Hills man was killed Thursday night less than a mile from his home while riding a minibike with no headlights in the dark, police said.  Richard Jenkins, 23, of the 4100 block of 70th Place collided with a Chevy Trailblazer that was making a right turn on Annapolis Road near 68th Place.  Jenkins was thrown from the bike and was pronounced dead a short time later at a hospital, said Cpl. Mike Rodriguez, a police spokesman.
