           AIG scrambles for cash as Fed holds US rate steady  September 17, 2008 - 6:07AM Source: ABC  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Liquidity fears: An AIG office in London Photo: Reuters  Insurance giant American International Group (AIG) has been told it has just 24 hours to raise up to $100 billion to ensure its liquidity.  The warning from New York&amp;amp;#039;s Governor David Paterson came after the downgrading of AIG&amp;amp;#039;s credit rating sent its share price into freefall.  Global markets slid again overnight with investors unnerved by the risk of a full-blown global financial crisis despite huge cash injections from central banks.  But Wall Street rallied later in the day and this morning the Dow industrials closed up 1.3 per cent on growing speculation the US Government would come to AIG&amp;amp;#039;s rescue.  The Federal Reserve held US interest rates steady, opting to soothe rattled financial markets with central bank lending and saying it was worried both about economic weakness and price pressures  But there are still fears that AIG - once the world&amp;amp;#039;s biggest insurance company - is about to become the latest high-profile victim of the credit crunch which is ravaging markets around the world.  The company&amp;amp;#039;s shares fell more than 20 per cent on Tuesday after losing 60.8 per cent on Monday.  If AIG failed, it would be twice as big a backruptcy as Lehman brothers and would potentially affect tens of millions of policy holders worldwide.  The US central bank left the interbank overnight federal funds rate at 2 per cent, where it has been since April.  World markets tumbled again overnight with investors unnerved by the risk of a full-blown global financial crisis despite huge cash injections from central banks.  In London, the FTSE 100 index fell nearly 179 points, or 3.4 per cent.  In Russia, trading was suspended late in the day after the main stock index fell by more than 11 per cent.  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin announced that the Government was pumping in billions of dollars to quell fears over its liquidity.  Asian shares plunged, hit by a wave of selling in the financial sector. Tokyo&amp;amp;#039;s Nikkei share average slumped 4.95 per cent to its lowest level in three years.   Yesterday Australia&amp;amp;#039;s ASX 200 index closed 1.4 per cent down.  
