SYDNEY, Sept 4 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar steadied above one-year lows against the U.S. currency on Thursday as investors took a breather from an aggressive sell-off, although growing worries about the global economy would keep it subdued.    * Those concerns saw investors unwind long commodities/short U.S. dollar positions. The U.S. dollar held near eight-month highs against the euro  on expectations that growth in world&amp;#039;s largest economy would outstrip the eurozone.    * By 9:25 a.m., the Aussie dollar  was at $0.8336/37 against the U.S. dollar, edging up from $0.8289/92 late here on Wednesday, having fallen to a one-year low of $0.8233 in offshore trade.    * The Aussie has lost over 4 percent since the start of the week, hurt by a slide in commodities prices and the prospect of domestic rate cuts. Australia is a big exporter of natural resources and booming demand for commodities has supported the country&amp;#039;s growth in recent years.    * But second-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) was subdued, with household consumption hit by the global credit crisis and record high oil prices. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) lowered the cash rate by 25 basis points earlier this week and investors are pricing in a good chance of another reduction next month.    * Australian July trade figures will be released at 11:30 a.m. (0130 GMT) and exports are likely to have outpaced imports. A Reuters poll showed market forecasts centred on a trade surplus of A$108 million. Estimates ranged from a deficit of A$500 million to a surplus of A$500 million.    * The Aussie remained in sight of five-month lows against the yen  as risk appetite continued to suffer amid a bleak outlook for global growth. Falling stocks dragged the Aussie to 89.52 yen offshore, it lowest since March 24, before it recovering to 90.32 yen on Thursday.    * Australian bonds were flat to slightly lower, lagging U.S. Treasuries which were buoyed by safe-haven inflows and as weaker oil prices continued to ease inflationary expectations.    * Three-year bond futures  were flat at 94.395, while the 10-year bond contract  edged down to 94.32.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by )    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
