       China impoarting oil and reduction sin Mexico and others.Oil price jumps $25 in a day By Javier Blas and Chris Flood in London   Published: September 22 2008 21:15   Last updated: September 22 2008 23:05  Crude oil prices jumped $25 a barrel on Monday  the largest one-day rise  as financial investors betting on falling oil prices were forced to cover their positions ahead of the expiry of the current benchmark futures contract.  The jump to an intraday high of $130 a barrel  a rise of about $40 a barrel from last weeks low  was exacerbated by a weakening US dollar and data showing weaker supplies from Mexico, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia in recent weeks and surging imports by China.  EDITORS CHOICE The Short View: Oil and dollar - Sep-22Roc Oil wary of predators as shares decline - Sep-23AIG woes reverberate in commodity markets - Sep-16Oil leads retreat across commodity markets - Sep-16Turmoil pushes oil down 4% - Sep-16Full coverage: Oil - Sep-15Investors who had bet that oil prices would continue falling were forced to close their positions ahead of Mondays expiry of the October oil futures contract at the New York Mercantile Exchange, traders and analysts said. The process is known as short covering.  The investors had little option but to cover their short positions at any price. If the positions had not been closed, they would have to take physical delivery of barrels of oil.  But in a highly unusual statement, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main regulator of US commodity markets, said it was closely monitoring the large surge in oil prices for signals of market manipulation.  CFTC enforcement staff will scour todays trading activity to determine whether anyone engaged in illegal manipulation activity, said Stephen Obie, head of the regulator division of enforcement.  Constanza Jacazio, an oil analyst with Barclays Capital in New York, said that the weakness of the US dollar had also supported crude prices.  Traders in New York said at least one hedge fund was facing losses after being caught on the wrong side of the oil price move.  Michael Wittner, global head of oil research at Socit Gnrale in London, said: Somebody had to have a very good reason to continue buying in such an extraordinary fashion and the most likely logical explanation is that they were desperate to get out of a short position.  After surging $25 to $130 a barrel, the October contract settled at $120.92 a barrel, up $16.37 on the day.  The previous one-day record was set last June, at $10.75 a barrel. The November futures contract, from Tuesday the benchmark, settled at $109.37 a barrel, up $6.62 a barrel on the day.  The jump in oil prices led an across-the-board rise in commodities, with gold soaring above $900 a troy ounce.  The Reuters-Jefferies CRB index, a raw materials benchmark, closed up 3.9 per cent, extending a 10.8 per cent increase from last weeks low. Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2008  Print articleEmail articleOrder reprints Delicious reddit Digg Facebook stumbleupon Yahoo! Buzz More from this sector Posco upbeat on quarterly earnings  Centrica must wait for its consolation prize Sinosteel wins approval for Murchison stake Viability of extraction questioned Nigerian militants halt attacks EDF set to launch bid for US group  RWE backs out of Russian TGK-2 deal View from the Top - Tom Albanese, chief executive of Rio Tinto Heritage Oil in talks on disposal of assets Buffett moves too fast for EDF Buffett in $4.7bn deal for ConstellationLatest Companies news Plea to extend shorting ban Krawcheck departure sparks Citi shake-up Money market funds suffer huge outflows Freddie and Fannie bank losses grow Buffett injects $1bn in Constellation battle WaMu persists in search for a buyer Challenge to iPhone heats up MUFG to buy up to 20% of Morgan Stanley  
