WELLINGTON, Sept 1 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar  fell towards recent one-year lows on Monday after a fresh bout of investor risk aversion triggered a further unwinding of carry trade positions in the high-yielding kiwi.    Asian stocks fell broadly on Monday, tracking sharp losses for U.S. tech stocks at the end of last week, prompting investors to reduce risky leveraged positions in the New Zealand currency.    It also had to contend with a firmer U.S. dollar, particularly against sterling after Britain&amp;#039;s finance minister gave a gloomy assessment of the UK economy [ID:nLU732328].    With no major local data due before the central bank&amp;#039;s interest rate decision on Sept. 11, the kiwi will continue to be driven by overseas trends, said BNZ currency strategist Danica Hampton.    &amp;#039;In the near term we&amp;#039;ll be looking to see what happens with oil and U.S. dollar sentiment, and ultimately all eyes are on the RBA (on Tuesday),&amp;#039; Hampton said.    At 0500 GMT the New Zealand dollar was at $0.6958/62 compared with $0.7050/60 in late local trading on Friday. It traded a local range of $0.6944 to $0.7000.    The kiwi hit a one-year low just above $0.68 last month.    The prospect of domestic interest cuts helped drive the kiwi&amp;#039;s retreat, with a likely rate cut in Australia on Tuesday also weighing down on sentiment.    The Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to cut rates by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent, its first cut in seven years.    The kiwi struck a two-and-a-half week low of 75.19 against the yen  as investors unwound carry trades funded in the cheap Japanese currency.    New Zealand&amp;#039;s central bank is widely expected to deliver a further cut in its 8 percent cash rate on Sept. 11, after easing policy for the first time in five years in July.    U.S. markets are closed on Monday for the Labor Day holiday, which may limit offshore activity in the New Zealand currency.    New Zealand bonds eased slightly, cooling after four days of gains, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond , which moves inversely to the price, one basis point higher at 6.00 percent.    (Reporting by Adrian Bathgate; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
