 Wed Sep 17, 2008 1:09pm EDT   * FTSEurofirst 300 closes down 2 percent  * Financials slump despite AIG bailout  * HBOS slides further despite takeover bid from Lloyds  LONDON, Sept 17 (Reuters) - European shares tumbled for a third straight day on Wednesday as investors dumped financials, worried that a credit crisis could claim more victims after the failure of Lehman Brothers (LEH.P: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and the bailout of insurer AIG (AIG.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz).  The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares fell 2 percent to 1,070.10 points, the lowest closing level since May 2005. The benchmark is down more than 8 percent this week and on is track for its worst week in more than six years. The index has lost 29 percent this year.  Banks took the most points off the index, with HSBC (HSBA.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Banco Santander (SAN.MC: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) falling by 4.6-10.4 percent.  British lender HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) slipped 19 percent despite saying that it was in advanced talks to be bought by rival Lloyds TSB (LLOY.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz). HBOS has now lost more than 47 percent of its value in the last three days on worries about funding.  ...  The cost of borrowing overnight dollars spiked above 10 percent, betraying a deep lack of trust in the inter-bank lending market in Europe.    Miners suffered because of a broader market sell-off and a decline in key base metals prices, although gold prices rose as investors sought a safe haven.  BHP Billiton (BLT.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Anglo American (AAL.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Vedanta Resources (VED.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Kazakhmys (KAZ.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Xstrata (XTA.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Antofagasta (ANTO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Rio Tinto (RIO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) fell between 1 and 11 percent.   Across Europe the FTSE 100 .FTSE index fell 2.3 percent, the German DAX .GDAXI slipped 1.8 percent and the French CAC 40 FCHI dropped 2.1 percent.  BARCLAYS STANDS OUT  British bank Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), which is buying Lehman&amp;#039;s U.S broker dealer business, rose 3.2 percent to stand out in a sea of red.  Elsewhere macroeconomic signals were also gloomy.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Europe&amp;#039;s largest economy will not escape unscathed even though the impact of the global market turmoil has been moderate so far.  And the number of Britons claiming unemployment benefit rose for a seventh consecutive month in August and by its biggest amount since December 1992.  ...  But analysts said the focus continued to be squarely on financials as uncertainty prevailed after the folding of Lehman and the travails of AIG.  &amp;quot;There&amp;#039;s no transparency, We don&amp;#039;t know about funding, the cost of it and the size of the problem,&amp;quot; said Cazenove&amp;#039;s Winder.   /...  http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idCALH615498...   
