SYDNEY, Sept 1 (Reuters) - A private measure of Australian inflation stayed stubbornly high in August with a sharp pullback in petrol prices masking an otherwise broad-based increase in cost pressures.    The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute monthly inflation gauge rose 0.1 percent in August, after a 0.4 percent increase in July. However, if a retreat in petrol prices was excluded, the gauge climbed 0.6 percent in August, equalling the record monthly rise for the series.    &amp;#039;Inflation remains stubbornly high with the monthly gauge being a shock once account is taken of the obvious fall in petrol prices,&amp;#039; said Joshua Williamson, a senior economist at TD Securities.    &amp;#039;Inflation pressures remain elevated despite the clear slowing in the economy,&amp;#039; he added.    There was some easing in the annual measure of inflation, which dropped back to 4.2 percent for the year to August, from 4.6 percent in July.    Don Harding from the Melbourne Institute said the result pointed to a rise of almost 1.1 percent in the government&amp;#039;s consumer price index for the third quarter. That would leave the annual pace at 4.3 percent, still well above the Reserve Bank of Australia&amp;#039;s (RBA) 2 to 3 percent target band.    TD&amp;#039;s Williamson said the central bank was still likely to cut interest rates at its monthly policy meeting on Tuesday given a clear slowdown in domestic demand and the tightening effect of the global credit squeeze.    &amp;#039;That said, expectations of further interest rate cuts may come under question given the persistence of price pressures,&amp;#039; he argued. &amp;#039;We now seriously doubt the scope for more than two or three 25 basis point rate cuts.&amp;#039; The RBA is widely expected to trim its key cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent on Tuesday, the first easing in seven years.    Contributing most to the overall increase in the inflation gauge in August were price rises for fruit and vegetables, insurance and gas and other household fuels.    The rises were partially offset by falls in the prices of automotive fuel, and overseas holiday travel and accommodation. Even with the sharp fall in August, petrol prices were up around 25 percent over the year.    The price of rental accommodation was also a major contributor to inflation having risen 14 percent over the year.    There were price increases for 44 expenditure groups compared to falls in just 11, while 35 were unchanged.    Excluding volatile items like fuel, fruit and vegetables, the inflation gauge rose 0.3 percent in August while the annual pace eased to 3.7 percent from 4.9 percent in July.    The trimmed mean measure of underlying inflation rose 0.2 percent in August, while the annual pace slowed a tick to 4.3 percent.    (Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
