LONDON , Sept 5 (Reuters) - The interbank cost of borrowing three-month dollar, euro and sterling funds eased on Friday, according to the British Bankers Association&amp;#039;s latest daily fixing, but the dollar spread widened.    Six month rates for euro held at their highest since early August as the market mulled planned changes, announced on Thursday, to the European Central Bank&amp;#039;s liquidity rules.    Three-month London interbank offered rates (Libor) over anticipated central bank rates -- Overnight Index Swap (OIS) rates -- for sterling and euro narrowed. For the latest Libor fixings, click on [ID:L5656727]    Six-month euro Libor held at 5.16375 percent, while the six-month dollar Libor/OIS spread was close to a record wide of 107 basis points.    The spread is seen as an indication of banks&amp;#039; inclination to lend to each other -- a wider spread suggests tougher lending conditions.    The ECB unveiled tougher rules on the assets that banks can submit as collateral after concern the rules were open to misuse [ID:nL4331226]. Financial institutions will now have to put up more collateral to borrow the same amount.    &amp;#039;We believe the changes that were announced are not particularly dramatic: they will lead to an increase in cost for banks, as potentially an additional 25 billion euros to 45 billion euros of securities will need to be funded,&amp;#039; Barclays Capital said in a note.    UniCredit global chief economist Marco Annunziata said the net impact of the changes would make life harder for those banks that rely most heavily on the central bank&amp;#039;s funding facility and might increase liquidity tensions in the markets.    (Editing by Ron Askew) Keywords: MARKETS LIBOR    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
