 U.S. Futures Contracts Fall With the Dollar       By KEITH BRADSHER, NY Times      Published: September 15, 2008      HONG KONG ? Futures contracts on American stocks nose-dived along with the dollar on Monday in Asia, dragging down the half-dozen stock markets in the region that were open. Asia?s biggest financial markets were closed for a major holiday.      The dollar fell sharply against the euro, yen and British pound in currency trading in Singapore, one of the markets that was open on Monday. But trading was extremely light and highly volatile in stock, bond and currency markets around the region with many investors on holiday and those who were at their desks still watching every news report from New York as Lehman Brothers announced it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and Merrill Lynch agreed to sell itself of Bank of America.      Traders waited anxiously for the European and New York markets to open.      The Standard &amp;amp; Poor?s 500 index that expires in December plunged 3.7 percent on Monday morning, the latest indication that American stocks could fall sharply at the opening following Lehman?s announcement.      Treasury prices rallied in thin trading as the interest rate on two-year Treasuries dropped by a third of a percent.      It was the sharpest rally by Treasuries since January as investors sought the safety of American government debt and concluded that the Federal Reserve is now more likely to cut interest rates further in an attempt to help ailing American financial institutions and the American economy.      The dollar plunged to $1.444 to a euro by mid-day in Singapore, from $1.422 in late trading on Friday in New York. The yen strengthened 2 percent to 105.47.      But traders and analysts were wary of drawing conclusions about broader market trends because the volume of trading was so thin.      ?Asia?s having a very quiet day,? said Peter Redwood, the director of Asian currency and economic research in the Singapore office of Barclays Capital.      In the longer term, he said, the latest difficulties in the United States are likely to hurt Asian markets. ?This is an increase in risk globally,? he said, adding that this was, ?unambiguously negative for Asia and for capital outflows from Asia.?      The Australian and New Zealand stock markets opened with modest losses on Monday, and the Australian market was even briefly up 20 minutes after it opened. But selling intensified as markets opened as well in Singapore, Taipei, Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur.      By early afternoon, the New Zealand and Thai markets were each down 1.4 percent, the Australian market was dropped 2.4 percent and the Singapore market had fallen 3.1 percent.      The sharpest drops occurred in economies with the closest economic and political ties to the United States. In Taiwan, the Taipei market declined 4.1 percent by early afternoon, and in the Philippines, the Manila market dropped 4.2 percent.      Markets were closed on Monday in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Seoul and Shanghai in observance of a holiday that the Chinese call Mid-Autumn Festival and the Japanese know as Respect for the Aged Day. With roots in traditional harvest festivals, the holiday is an occasion like Thanksgiving in the United States, with a particular emphasis in Asia on family gatherings.
