TOKYO, Sept 12 (Reuters) - The yen edged up against the euro and other major currencies towards its highest levels in more than two years, as investors nervously waited for more news about Lehman Brothers ahead of Japan&amp;#039;s long weekend.    The dollar stayed near a one-year high against the euro, amid growing fears about a slowdown in the global economy, especially outside the United States.    The yen had slid sharply in late New York trade on Thursday on reports that Lehman Brothers was in talks about a possible sale, with Bank of America or Barclays named as potential suitors.    The reports drove a last-minute rebound in Wall Street shares on Thursday and helped Tokyo&amp;#039;s Nikkei share average to rise more than 1 percent at one stage.    But the fragile state of Asian stock markets kept investors risk averse and away from carry trades, in which the low-yielding yen had been used to fund investment in higher-yielding currencies and assets.    &amp;#039;Intensifying worries about the global economy, especially emerging markets, are what&amp;#039;s driving the market, pushing up the dollar and the yen with its low risk premium&amp;#039; said Hideki Amikura, deputy general manager of the forex section at Nomura Trust Bank.    &amp;#039;And more news about the fate of Lehman Brothers could make market moves even more volatile,&amp;#039; said Amikura.    Traders said news that could alleviate worries about the spread of U.S. financial sector woes would soothe risk aversion and prompt investors to sell the yen back.    The Washington Post reported on Thursday that the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve were engineering a sale of Lehman Brothers through a consortium of private firms. [ID:nN09324233]    The newspaper said the announcement of a Lehman sale could come before Asian markets open on Monday. Japanese markets will be closed for a national holiday.    The euro edged down 0.1 percent against the yen to 149.95 yen after rebounding sharply from Thursday&amp;#039;s low of 147.52 yen hit on trading platform EBS, the lowest since August 2006.    The yen edged higher across the board, pushing the New Zealand dollar, one of the high-yielding currencies favoured in yen carry trades, down 0.6 percent to 69.95 yen and back towards Thursday&amp;#039;s low of 68.49 yen, its weakest in more than two years.    The kiwi dropped 0.6 percent to $0.6524 as the domestic retail sales fell in July and reinforced views that the nation&amp;#039;s central bank will lower interest rates further after chopping them to 7.5 percent on Thursday. It touched a two-year low of $0.6438 in the previous day&amp;#039;s trade.    Traders said a deteriorating global economic outlook and a jump in market volatility convinced U.S. investors to close their overseas investments and secure cash, giving a boost to the dollar.    The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3994 after rebounding from a one-year low of $1.3882 hit on Thursday, helped partly by comments by European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet that inflation remains the bank&amp;#039;s key focus.    The dollar edged up 0.1 percent against the yen to 107.20 yen.    Data on Friday showed Japan&amp;#039;s economy shrank a bit more than initially estimated in the second quarter, underscoring concerns that it is slipping into a recession, hurt by the global economic slowdown.    bh    -    bhx    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
