SYDNEY, Sept 2 (Reuters) - Australian approvals to build new homes slipped in July beneath the weight of higher mortgage rates and rising building costs, adding to already widespread expectations of a cut in interest rates later on Tuesday.    Yet, seperate figures on government spending showed a solid rise last quarter, which will add to economic growth and lessen the risk of a contraction in gross domestic product (GDP).    All of which argued that any rate cuts from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would be delivered in small increments.    &amp;#039;The impending easing cycle is aimed largely at loosening financial conditions as the RBA tries to avoid turning a soft landing into something more sinister,&amp;#039; said Su-Lin Ong, a senior economist at RBC Capital Markets.    &amp;#039;That challenge points to a modest easing cycle.&amp;#039;    Markets fully expect the central bank to trim its key cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent after its monthly policy meeting, the first cut in seven years.    The central bank announces its decision at 2:30 p.m. (0430 GMT) in a short statement, which will be scoured for clues on the prospect of further easing. Investors are pricing in a cash rate of 6.5 percent by Christmas.    The case for further cuts seemed to be supported by the figures on building approvals which showed a drop of 2.3 percent in July, confounding forecasts of a flat outcome.    The weakness was tempered by a sizable upward revision to June, which now shows a rise of 2.2 percent compared to an initial drop of 0.7 percent.    TWO SPEED ECONOMY    Still, a key measure of new house approvals was down 5.3 percent in the year to July even as the country faces a chronic shortage of housing to meet a rapidly growing population.    &amp;#039;There looks to be an accelerating downdraft in housing which plays to the argument for a speedy rate cut,&amp;#039; said Brian Redican, a senior economist at Macquarie. &amp;#039;Households are suffering.&amp;#039;    Yet booming demand for Australia&amp;#039;s commodity exports from China and India has showered cash on other parts of the economy. Business profits expanded at the fastest pace in seven years last quarter, supporting wages and the government&amp;#039;s tax take.    That led to surprisingly strong business investment and firms even upgraded already bullish spending plans for the coming year.    Data out on Tuesday showed spending by the public sector also rose a surprisingly strong 1.4 percent in the second quarter to A$59.3 billion ($50.3 billion).    Since public spending accounts for just over 20 percent of Australia&amp;#039;s A$1 trillion economy, that implied a solid contribution to economic growth in the second quarter.    This should lessen the risk that the GDP report would show a psychologically damaging fall when released on Wednesday.    Analysts generally look for growth of around 0.4 percent in the quarter, which would see the annual pace slow to 2.9 percent, from 3.6 percent in the first quarter.    &amp;#039;The mix of tight financial conditions, high petrol prices and low confidence has wrought some damage,&amp;#039; said Michael Blythe, chief economist at Commonwealth Bank.    &amp;#039;But the GDP data should also confirm that Australia is better placed than most to deal with the negatives,&amp;#039; he added. &amp;#039;In particular, a sharp rise in the terms of trade means a transfer of income from the rest of the world to Australia is underway.&amp;#039;    (Editing by James Thornhill)    .    lw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
