NBC Sports.com's Tom Curran went on the offensive, assailing ESPN.com's Stephen A. Smith over comments Mr. Quite Frankly made regarding the election of DeMaurice Smith as the executive director of the NFLPA.Curran writes:"If it were still 2005, Stephen A. would be correct. But it's not. And ignoring - or being oblivious to - the fact that Upshaw beat the retiring Tagliabue about the head and neck in the most recent CBA negotiations is inexcusable for a columnist in a national magazine (and for whichever editor didn't catch it).There's a work stoppage on the horizon because the NFL owners - who have been accustomed to having an extreme upper hand - are getting soaked by salaries and peeing away millions on first-round picks who never rise past the level of scrub.In 2005, the NFL's salary cap was $85 million. This year's cap? It's $127 million. A cool $42 million spread through a roster means - theoretically - close to a million extra per player. Top 5 picks now make so much in guaranteed money (approaching $30 million) teams can't give their slots away."The most ironic part of that passage is Curran lambasting Stephen A. Smith and ESPN (two institutions I have zero use for, by the way) for ignoring a perception, not a fact. Because the fact is that when the late Gene Upshaw was running the show at the NFLPA, many players, both current and former, felt as though they didn't have a voice at the negotiating table, and that Upshaw didn't do enough on certain issues.   Smith, as much as it pains me to write this, is dead on about that, and Curran even acknowledges it.Curran asserts that the players' concerns should be mitigated by how much the salary cap has risen since the current CBA was ratified in 2006, and he's right that the salary cap has sky-rocketed.But what Curran fails to mention (because he is credulous hack) is that the salary cap is not a fixed number. It is based on the percentage of Projected League Revenues, minus league-wide benefits, divided by 32. In non-legalese, that means the players receive a percentage of the total amount of revenue the league expects to make, minus benefits, divided by the 32 NFL teams.   So while the salary cap has risen to a number so high (or lofty, if you're Peter King), the 2009 figure is merely representative of 57.5% of the total revenue the NFL, i.e. owners, expects to generate. The "strides" Stephen A. Smith thinks DeMaurice Smith can make is in regards to the amount of a contract that's guaranteed and, more importantly, addressing the health needs of former players, which were two important issues players felt Upshaw ignored.  Tom Curran fails to see this, which is why, quite frankly, Tom Curran is a joke.
