Thank you Amy, Sonya, Amanda, and Cheryl for all the lovely comments and posts on facebook.  It made my day.  It makes me feel very loved and missed reading all of them.  It took me about an hour to go through them all, but I laughed a lot! We had a busy weekend.  We drove up to Galion on Friday evening and stayed at my mother in laws.  We went to Cindy's memorial service on Saturday.  It was nice, a lot of people came.  We ate and talked and had a good time.  Olivia had a GREAT time.  She played with 4 dogs and ran around and just had fun.  She gave Bruce a kiss for the very first time. She is scared of him and usually doesn't want anything to do with him, but she must have sensed he was sad.  It made his day when she gave him a little peck on the cheek.  We let go about 30 balloons in honor of Cindy. Bruce had a butterfly balloon and before he released he said "You watch, this balloon is going to get stuck in tree and it will be Cindy's way of telling me she is watching over me"  Sure enough, his balloon was the only one that got stuck in a tree!  He is doing ok, he has his ups and downs which is expected.  Amanda: The day after Christmas Cindy was in a car accident.  She hit a tree and the people who found her called 911 and she was sent to the hospital.  They found she had a brain aneurysm, a stroke, a brain tumor, and Type I Diabetes.  She was in ICU for 7 weeks before being moved into a nursing home.  She lasted in the nursing home for 4 days before being sent back to ICU.  She was toxic. She ran a fever of 106 and had no brain activity and barely had a blood pressure reading.  She was taken off of life support on the 26th. She survived an hour before passing away.We went to the circus today.  It was fun too.  We left my mother in law's around 9:30, got home around 12:30, dropped Huck off and got to US Bank Arena a little after 1.  The circus started at 1, so we missed only a few minutes.  Olivia hasn't felt well at all today.  She said she wanted to go to the circus even though she felt bad. She felt asleep halfway through it and is still sleeping now. She has a fever and she threw up once (in the middle of the night lastnight)  She has drank a little and ate a few crackers, but I think the best thing for her now is to sleep.  Hopefully she will feel better by tomorrow.I might be back a little later on to post more....if not, have a good week!
