i just wanto cry at the moment. i dont know why. everthing seems to be fucking up. again. make zadie smile day?didnt think so.owell, was worth a try i gues?this life sucks atm.things are GAYGAYGAY!i wanto go away, far away, and not come back.im sick of this life right now.and i feel like actuall shit too cause i drank way too much yesterdayy munn.im giving up drink btw. the future?dont know, its blurry.not a clue whats going to happen, where im going to end up.and tbh, the state of mind that im in atm i dont care.fuck everything innit.theres no point in giving a shit, when the world is going to piss in your mouth every 5 seconds. ewieee, world piss. what would you do?what would i do?what am i going to doo?im so fucked, its not good.not literally, buh you know.i thinkim going to be sick again. and would you beleive it has taken me this long to suss out the bullshit stuation i seem to be in atm?whatta twat.is it just me, or do the things you put the most effort into always end up being the thing to fuck you over the most?i think ive broken my fucking nose, its killing me. and there is a massive bruise on it. and i was fucking oh my gosh.dont you hate flashbacks?i really cant hardly remember anything you knoww.it suckss. and as usual, i dont think that anyone is talking to me. not that i care. i cba with sillyness. if you ask me, i have got bigger things to fucking worry about then who wants to be my mate, and who dont,get the fuck on with it munn, either your there or your not.whichever way, i hate to say it, i couldnt give 2 shits.its not like i havent been on my fucking own before and had the rest of the world dislike me. i know who i need, and ive got them.so suck dick mate. stop going on like your a somebody, when your a fucking no body. and unlike you, come to my face and i will tell you exactly what i think of you.thats if you wantoo know.arghh, allow letting you wind me up this much.fucking wastee. i dont wanto be the girl that laughs the loudest.i am lol. "the silence scares me cause it screams the truth"pink.oh soo tru. i beleived in you, i helped you, i laughed with you, i cried with you, i dont stupid things with you, i fought with you.i could have fallen for you.im glad that i didnt.cause boy would i feel like a twat.life is so not fair.and i swear if im left alone with my thoughts for any longer im going to have a breakdown.am i an alcaholic if i say i need a drink?i want one but im well to hungover to get pissed atm. and im ment to bee giving up.why the fuck is it always me that ends up getting myself into these situations.?its never anyone else.maybee im the common denominator. well obviously. i need a job mateee. really badly. i wanto do mechanics, buh i got laughed at when i told people that.is it really that bad?okay im off.i suppose ill shit the fuck up now.probably going to dedicate the next hour of my life to running a laavvvlyy bubble bath and turning my phone off. sounds like a plan dont it huh?oh and before i forget too metion,can anyone make me a CD if i give them the cd en a list of songs to put on it?blah blah blah.FUCK IT!
