Now it begins. After a long-awaited one-day rally that relieved investors of some of their worry and altered the tone on Wall Street, Wednesday&#8217;s outcome will begin to address whether markets can build on those gains, and whether any subsequent rally turns into a longer-lasting rebound for the broader market. The S&#038;P 500 gained more than 5% Tuesday, the eighth time this has happened in one day since October 2007, according to Bespoke Investment Group. On other occasions, the market has been unable to sustain a rally, which leaves many an investor skeptical. &#8220;Should we see higher prices over the next week or so, the more important question will be whether we are dealing with anything more than an oversold bounce,&#8221; writes Prieur du Plessis, executive chairman of Plexus Asset Management in Durbanville, South Africa.    Get those rally caps on. (AP Photo, 1996)  Volume was undoubtedly a positive for the market Tuesday. More than 2.17 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, and 2.09 billion of that represented advancing volume. If this can be sustained in coming days and weeks, it would suggest a healthier market. But in order for an upward trend to be established, a greater number of stocks need to rise above their 50-day moving average, more institutions need to start buying (which will beget more buying), and so on and so forth. Meanwhile, headed into the open, it appears the banking stocks will get another jolt after Citigroup led the way on news that it was profitable in the first two months of 2009. Shares of the struggling bank were up 17 cents to $1.62, while Bank of America gained 45 cents to $5.24 a share. &#8220;News that banks operating earnings may be turning positive after several negative quarters is certainly reason for joy,&#8221; writes Ed Yardeni, of Yardeni Research. &#8220;Nevertheless, there is still a high risk that earnings will disappoint depending on mark-to-market losses on securities and rising provisions for bad loans.&#8221;         
