The Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Technical Analysis team came out with a report this morning that managed to both argue for and against the recent move higher in share prices. They cant be all wrong! Technicians are a fascinating group. They read charts, draw lines, calculate various market measures, such as up and down volume, and use that information to figure out where the market is headed. Earnings, dividends, the Federal Reserve  none of those things really matter to a chartist. Its easy to scoff at this approach, but enough people believe in the efficacy of technical analysis that its not prudent to ignore. According to the BA-ML technicians, the market has been building a base since October and the process will take many months during which we will have exciting rallies as well as tests of market lows. While upbeat, it also uses 1937-38 as a comparison, which isnt exactly a cheery time frame. On the plus side, expanding trading volume is confirming the recent upward move, as measured by BA-MLs Volume Intensity Model (VIM  get it?). Also there is near-term selling exhaustion, another positive, unless the buyers suddenly get short of breath. The report says that cyclical stocks and technology stocks have the best technical positions to benefit from the rally.  But before counting the chickens, BA-ML cautions that the market is respecting resistance at the 800 level on the S&#038;P 500. If the market bursts past 800, the next point of resistance would be at 840-880. Also, the financial sector, while showing some positive signals, has still not completed its own basing process. That means the chart readers arent convinced that the trouble in financial stocks is over, despite the excitement surrounding the latest toxic asset plan unveiled Monday morning. While I find technical analysis difficult to fully embrace because it eschews fundamental issues, it is an enjoyable way to think about the market. It makes the trading day seem more like a ferocious battle with resistance lines and support positions.  And, in many respects, thats a pretty accurate way to think about the marketplace. It is an arena of competing ideas and arguments. The technicians believe they can divine these discussions by looking at the charts, lines and other more complex technical indicators. Perhaps they can. Given how the market is fighting at the S&#038;P 800 level this afternoon, as the BA-ML report predicted, certainly is an intriguing datapoint.        
