Lewis Wickes Hine Boys Keep Swinging June 29, 1916Hanging around the saloon -at 5 p.m. in Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts Ilargi: The longer the theater of the absurd continues in Washington, Connecticut and Manhattan, the more it becomes clear that America is not a nation where people are equal, no matter how many times anyone may quote the initial intentions to this end phrased by the founding fathers. There is a ruling class in what some still claim to be a democracy that gets away with breaking the laws of the country, including the constitution, on a daily basis. In this, there is no difference with China, Myanmar or any other oligarchy, other than in the pictures painted by media and spin doctors, which in reality depict nothing but illusions. On Wall Street, the government's regulatory agencies, from Congress to the SEC, habitually look the other way or are implicitly complicit. One dollar one vote means that whoever has the money also has the power, political and military. If you're one of the boys, you can get away with anything. And I mean anything. I'll say it once again: this is not a financial crisis, this is a full-blown political crisis. And nobody recognizes it. There is no reason for anyone to go hungry or live on the street. Those are choices made by a society. Boys keep swingingHeaven loves yaThe clouds part for yaNothing stands in your wayWhen you're a boyClothes always fit yaLife is a pop of the cherryWhen you're a boyWhen you're a boyYou can wear a uniformWhen you're a boyOther boys check you outYou get a girlThese are your favourite thingsWhen you're a boyBoysBoysBoys keep swingingBoys always work it outUncage the coloursUnfurl the flagLuck just kissed you helloWhen you're a boyThey'll never clone yaYou're always first on the lineWhen you're a boyWhen you're a boyYou can buy a home of your ownWhen you're a boyLearn to drive and everythingYou'll get your shareWhen you're a boyBoysBoysBoys keep swingingBoys always work it outDavid BowieHedge Funds and the Global Economic Meltdown How long can this short-covering rally last? Some of the recent rally in the market's most beaten-down stocks, such as financials, may be the result of investors covering short positions, raising questions about the long-term endurance of the move higher. "I think particularly with the big rally in financials, we're seeing a lot of short covering," said Ken Tower, market strategist at Quantitative Analysis Services. "Fundamentals haven't changed enough for financials to really generate that much enthusiasm." Investors who short a stock are essentially betting that its price will fall -- first borrowing the shares from to sell them, and then buying them back at a hoped-for lower price. When the shares are returned to the broker, the difference is the short seller's profit. But if the price rises, as has been the case with many financial stocks this month, they are forced to "cover" their positions by buying shares.Financial stocks have outperformed the broad market during March, helped by some positive statements from Citigroup and Bank of America Corp. about their year-to-date performance. The Financial Sector SPDR Fund, an exchange-traded fund that tracks financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, has gained 14% this month, outpacing the 6.7% rise in the broader S&amp;P. "It's safe to say at least 50% or more was due to short covering. But it's not 100% and that's the good news," said Charles Gradante, co-founder of the Hennessee Group, which manages $1 billion in assets and advises investors in hedge funds. "That positive news was the other half of the rally," he said. Gradante's firm has been advising clients start investing in the financial sector, saying banks should start to benefit from all the money the Federal Reserve is pushing into the economy by buying mortgage-backed securities and other bonds. They could also benefit if policymakers loosen mark-to-market accounting rules.Some of the companies that have rallied the most in recent weeks also are the companies that topped the list of most-shorted stocks. Citigroup ranked third on the most-shorted roster among NYSE-listed companies at the end of February, according to the most recent data made available by New York Stock Exchange. American International Group was at No. 5, while the Financial Select SPDR Fund, Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Bank of America all were among the top 10 shorted stocks. Shares of Citi and E-Trade Financial have risen 46% and 56% each this week. On Thursday, the market failed to hold early gains. The S&amp;P 500 finished down 10 points at 784. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 85 points to 7,400 and the Nasdaq Composite fell 7 points to 1,483. Stocks rallied sharply on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve surprised markets, saying it would buy $300 billion in Treasurys from the open market. Yet, the market was already on a winning streak since March 10, with the broad S&amp;P 500 gaining over 16% in just eight sessions.A short-covering rally, especially in a sector that's been beaten down such as financials, isn't normally given much credibility in terms of lasting power by investment professionals. "Certainly, financials saying that things were looking up at the start of this rally led to people that had been short [to cover their positions]," said Dan Greenhaus, market strategist at Miller Tabak. The roller-coaster ride in Citigroup's stock, meanwhile, has created havoc among investors betting its stock would plunge. Earlier this month, shares had dropped below $1 a share, or 86% off its Dec. 31 close, on the heels of a late February announcement that it would convert some preferred shares to common stock. That boosted the U.S. government's direct ownership in the banking company to 36% but signaled a dilution in the value of common stockholders' shares. Citi shares have more than doubled since then.Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit said the plan created a "large technical short" in its shares "that should be lifted once the conversion is completed." Its late-February plan calls for converting about $52.5 billion preferred shares into common stock. A few weeks ago, Citigroup and other bank stocks came under pressure after hedge funds bought the preferred shares of Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo &amp; Co. while shorting their common stock. Fears that the U.S. government would have to take over some of the country's biggest banks, wiping out the value of their common stock, gave investors a window to short the common stock but buy the preferred shares. These tend to hold their value more in a liquidation. But now "that trade is unwinding, where hedge funds are covering their shorts, buying shorts back and selling the preferreds," Gradante said. Citigroup shares Thursday jumped as much as 26% after saying it reached a definite agreement with private preferred shareholders to convert $12.5 billion of those securities into common shares and was seeking permission for a reverse stock split, before reversing lower on word of a big bond sale. Short selling has been rising, NYSE data show. Short interest rose to 14.624 billion in the two weeks ended Feb. 27, up 3% from the prior two weeks and the highest level since the week ended Nov. 28. Still, short-selling is probably not the end of the story for this recent rally in stocks.Greenhaus, along with other strategists, believes sellers had also just exhausted themselves. The S&amp;P 500 fell 25% since the start of the year through March 9, and by then sellers just weren't finding anyone to sell to anymore. "The news out of the financials sector was the fuel that many had been looking for anyways," he said. "There's only so much of a 10-day rally that you can attribute to short covering. There were some people that were just coming into buy." The S&amp;P 500 has gained 4% this week. Some of those gains may stem from an uptick in sentiment that a recovery in the economy and in stocks is underway. "I think optimism is real and something that's starting to percolate up throughout lots of different contacts," from money managers to business executives, said James Hedges, president of LJH Global Investments, an investment advisory firm that focuses on alternative investments. Banks warned on commercial property black hole A "black hole" in the US commercial property market is set to put further pressure on troubled banks, the head of leading private equity firm Apollo Management has warned. Leon Black, founder of the firm, said the extra costs of cleaning up the US banking industry could total as much as $2,000bn, putting further strain on the economy. He said the woes of the commercial property had not yet been reflected fully on bank balance sheets. "You have the black hole of commercial real estate and that hasnt happened yet," said Mr Black in a wide-ranging interview on FT.com. "There you are sitting with $4 trillion of debt and you know not all of its bad but a lot of it is diminished and that really hasnt yet been addressed."He warned it would be 12 to 18 months before there are lasting signs of US economic recovery. Apollo, a firm established in 1990 that combines buy-out activity with investing in the debt of troubled companies, is in better shape than many of its competitors. It has at least $13bn to invest at a time when it is almost impossible to raise new money. Largely because the banks are not providing financing and the capital markets are not open, Mr Black conceded that "conventional private equity right now doesnt exist ... Conventional buy-outs are really not on the table right now". Mr Black warned in February that traditional buy-outs were "essentially dead for the time being" and claimed "the big public-to-privates are gone the way of the dodo".During the boom years, which ended abruptly in 2007, Mr Black took advantage of cheap and flexible debt to buy companies, pay his investors dividends and then sell these acquisitions as he did with Intelsat. Now, as some of the companies he owns, such as Harra...
