The 'Clix tournament was fun, Keith came up with a scenario that he called "Dead Clix Walking!" I took a box full of 'Clix that I thought would be fun to play. I finally settled on a martial artist-themed team: Bronze Tiger Elektra (Human), with the Infiltrate feat Gamora Iron Fist Ronin and Scandal SavageIt turned out to be a good team, despite the lack of figures with Telekinesis, which would have been VERY nice for advancing figures across the board. I went 2-1 for the day (one win, one loss and a bye - for a win) and got the Fellowship prize: Edward Nigma LE figure.After the tourney, I hurried home to watch...   Baltimore Ravens at Tennessee Titans       13 - 10   The AFC #6 Seed Baltimore Ravens, following a short week - they played on Sunday - went to LP Field to take on the AFC #1 Seed, Tennessee Titans.I missed the first quarter, due to a scheduling conflict with a 'Clix tournament. Fortunately, there were only two scores: A Titans' touchdown, followed by a Ravens' TD.The second quarter saw a little more action, including a helmet-jarring Ray Lewis tackle. Samari Rolle picked off a Kerry Collins pass three minutes into the quarter, but Baltimore wasn't able to convert and turned the ball overs on downs. The Titans proceeded to march the ball downfield, all the way to the Baltimore 17 yard line... and then fumbled the ball. Baltimore held onto the ball and ended the quarter tied 7-7.After a couple of fruitless drives by both teams early in the third quarter, Titans' kicker Rob Bironas missed a 51-yard field goal. This gave Baltimore good field position, but they were unable to capitalize on it. Again. The third quarter was also scoreless.The fourth quarter opened with a Ravens' field goal, which the Titans answered, two drives later. Matt Stover tacked on another three points for the Ravens with 00:57 left in the quarter, putting Baltimore ahead 13-10. The Titans went four-and-out on their final drive, with 00:12 left on the clock, allowing Joe Flacco to take a knee... and the Ravens take home a win.This was fairly typical of a Ravens-Titans game - low score, lots of defense and a LOT of attitude. There were sixteen or seventeen penalties, between the two teams, most of them belonging to Tennessee. With the penalties, miscues and turnovers, the Titans effectively shot themselves in the foot and snatched defeat from the jaws of victory.With this win, the Ravens will play in the AFC Championship against the winner of tomorrow's San Diego-Pittsburgh game.  And now the Panthers are hosting and playing - if you can call it that - the Arizona Cardinals in Bank of America Stadium. I don't know what happened to them since last week, but this hardly looks like the Panthers team I've seen in the past few weeks.Originally published at Random Access.&amp;raquo; Click here &amp;laquo; to leave any comments.
