I have stated my points here before and have a hard time not flaming McCain, much less Palin, but I will just put up a couple of McCain Quotes and also information on his support of deregulation.      A few McCain Quotes on Iraq before we went in.      ?Because I know that as successful as I believe we will be, and I believe that the success will be fairly easy, we will still lose some American young men or women.? [CNN, 9/24/02]      ?We?re not going to get into house-to-house fighting in Baghdad. We may have to take out buildings, but we?re not going to have a bloodletting of trading American bodies for Iraqi bodies.? [CNN, 9/29/02]       ?But the point is that, one, we will win this conflict. We will win it easily.? [MSNBC, 1/22/03]      In 2002, McCain introduced a bill to deregulate the broadband Internet market, warning that &amp;quot;the potential for government interference with market forces is not limited to federal regulation.&amp;quot; Three years earlier, McCain had joined with other Republicans to push through landmark legislation sponsored by then-Sen. Phil Gramm (Tex.), who is now an economic adviser to his campaign. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act aimed to make the country&amp;#039;s financial institutions competitive by removing the Depression-era walls between banking, investment and insurance companies.       That bill allowed AIG to participate in the gold rush of a rapidly expanding global banking and investment market. But the legislation also helped pave the way for companies such as AIG and Lehman Brothers to become behemoths laden with bad loans and investments.       McCain now condemns the executives at those companies for pursuing the ambitions that the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act made possible, saying that &amp;quot;in an endless quest for easy money, they dreamed up investment schemes that they themselves don&amp;#039;t even understand.&amp;quot;       The above are not my comments but quotes and or Newspaper reports, the below is my opinion.      I am not saying McCain is a Bush puppet, I don&amp;#039;t think that at all. I just think he has supported and advocated the same policies, not because because he supporting Bush, because he believes this was the way to go. These are the policies that have led to the situation we are in now. I previously argued that the Democrats shared a blame in the war because so many voted for it and they are not completely blameless but they were basing their votes on information supplied by the Bush Administration massaged to force the view they wanted. And at the time in the shadow of 911, every one was afraid to have their patriotism challenged. So they went along and I am sure almost all of them regret it.       MCCain on the other hand was one of the main cheerleaders of that war. Its going to be easy. He said. Is that an example of the experience he brings to the job?      For me it is about accountability. No McCain is not a Bush puppet. He is certainly his own man. I don?t remember Bush saying it would be easy. I don?t remember Bush singing Bomb Bomb Iran. The Republicans put us in the war. The War and the drain on our economy has a lot to do with the economic crisis we now find ourselves in. The deregulation of the banks obviously is also a huge factor. I am quite sure that most of the people who benefited reduction in regulations were Republicans. I don?t think McCain is a Bush puppet, I think he is probably very similar and probably worse.      The Republicans talk about accountability with regard to the budget. They talk about cutting spending. But they never do.       You all know I couldn?t stand Aretzios, but some of his arguments had merit. Future wars over resources were a prediction of his. The Republican administration has dragged our economy into the dirt. They have done such a good job of that that they are dragging the rest of the world with it. What sort of reactions and actions do we get from the rest of the world. If the rest of the world hates us(and many do), they have every right to when you take into account the actions of the current Republican Administration, and again yes it W at the Tiller but McCain is helping row the boat.  I may be being melodramatic, but 6 months ago who thought we would be where we are now?       McCain is a friend to the Environment when compared to Bush, and I do believe that?s important, but otherwise I see little difference.      Do I think Obama can fix this massive economic morass the Republicans have put us in? Its pretty doubtful. Can McCain fix it? That is even more doubtful. Will the same policies that got us in this mess get us out? Again I say its about accountability. Do we reward the Republicans for putting us in a senseless war in Iraq and for dragging the World economy into a slump that we have no idea how deep it will get or do we try something else? I vote for something else. Like I said I believe in accountability and to elect McCain says to me we don?t give a f*** about accountability. Its not f***ed enough, f*** it up some more.      But considering its October and the next President won?t take office until January it?s a pretty good bet that by the time he takes office conditions and our options will have changed and I don?t think they will have changed for the better.      --   &amp;quot; &amp;quot;A Man must have a Code&amp;quot;   The Bunk       &amp;quot;Its what a war is. Once you in it you in it.&amp;quot;  Slim Charles       &amp;quot;That Halibut is good enough for Jehovah!!! &amp;quot;  Mathias, Son of Deuteronomy of Gath
