     Making Sense of Our Financial Mess    October 2, 2008 - by Charlie Martin   Really, what the general public has got to be asking after the financial news of the last week is wha hoppen?  accompanied by grogginess, head shaking, and animated birds circling their heads, chirping.  It started ten days ago, with a series of events that had the result of freezing the credit market. What that means is that banks and other financial institutions stopped lending one another money and people started moving away from money markets and similar kinds of accounts  the savings accounts of really big companies  and moving their money into Treasury bills. They were so frantic to get out that, for a short while, Treasury bills were down to  zero yield . This is pretty much the definition of fear on Wall Street: they were so worried about losing money that they were willing to lose money.  If this goes on, heres what  could  happen.  We depend on credit lines more than most people realize. Credit lines dry up: businesses that depend on them grind to a stop. That means: grocery stores start to empty  they depend on short-term credit to buy food for the shelves; paychecks bounce, or arent delivered at all  many companies, especially very big and very small ones, use short-term credit to pay payroll against receivables. People will be out of work.  When something similar happened in 2000 in Argentina, within a few months Argentina had 25 percent unemployment and middle-class people were reduced to recycling cardboard and picking rags in order to get money to eat. Were talking Great Depression here: bread lines and soup kitchens.  Now, that hasnt happened yet. Faced with the possibility of a new Depression, Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Hank Paulson, secretary of the Treasury, got their attention wonderfully focused; the last weeks have been spent laying out a plan and attempting to sell it.  Before we talk about that, though, lets talk about what  did  happen.  Basically, it was a run on the bank, like happened at [1]  IndyMac  a few months ago, like the one in  [2]  Its a Wonderful Life  . People started asking big financial firms for cash, until they ran out of cash; because the markets werent working and credit wasnt available, the big financial firms didnt have it. This frightens people, and markets dont like fear.  So how did it happen?  The history of this really starts back in the 70s. For various apparently good reasons, Congress in its wisdom decided that banks and lenders should sell mortgages they would not have ordinarily done. Sometimes, the reason they didnt sell the mortgages was very possibly racial prejudice; sometimes it was the banks observation that some neighborhoods seemed to do better than others (so called  redlining ); and sometimes it was for reasons of creditworthiness and income. In any case, the [3]  Community Reinvestment Act  passed in 1977 during the Carter administration and was revised in 1995 during the Clinton administration. Whatever the desirable qualities of these laws, the net effect was to make home mortgages, over all, more risky.  As [4]  Wikipedia  correctly says (as of September 25, 2008, at least):  Part of the increase in home loans was due to increased efficiency and the genesis of lenders, like Countrywide, that do not mitigate loan risk with savings deposits as do traditional banks using the new subprime authorization. This is known as the secondary market for mortgage loans. The revisions allowed the securitization of CRA loans containing subprime mortgages. The first public securitization of CRA loans started in 1997 by Bear Stearns. The number of CRA mortgage loans increased by 39 percent between 1993 and 1998, while other loans increased by only 17 percent.  The 1995 revision of the Act allows lenders other than banks to get into the business of offering home mortgages, and allows both banks and these other lenders to offer these  subprime  mortgages while  securitizing  them. Securitizing means the loans were collected into a financial instrument like a bond and sold on an open market. These collections of securitized loans are called  mortgage-backed securities , usually abbreviated as MBS.  Why would you do that? The answer is that it was an attempt to reduce the risk: a single mortgage could fail or not, but a lot of mortgages collected together should always be worth as much, or nearly as much, as the face value of the bond. If a few mortgages failed, it didnt matter to the bond, because the face value included an allowance for some failures.  Still, some people felt the risk was too high, so another innovative financial instrument was invented, called the  credit default swap , or CDS. In a CDS, I insure my MBS by finding another company, like AIG, to effectively write me an insurance policy: if certain things happen to my MBS that make it have less value, AIG promises to pay me the full value of my MBS in cash, swapping it for the MBS itself. (A credit default swap works like this: since I believe in the good  credit  of the issuer, Ill let you pay me a small fee, with the promise that if the issuer  defaults , Ill  swap  the full amount in cash for the security.&amp;amp;nbsp; In other words, if something bad happens to the bond, Ill buy it back from you, paying cash for it.)  So now weve got three of the four big dominoes: higher-risk mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities built from those loans to reduce the risk of holding these higher-risk mortgages, and credit default swaps to insure the holders of the MBSs.  Now we get to the fourth and final domino: between late 2000 and 2002, major failures of companies like Enron and WorldCom led Congress to pass the [5]  Sarbanes-Oxley Act . Part of the Act was to force companies to use fair value accounting  to carry certain securities at what they were currently worth, instead of book value. In November 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board codified this with [6]  FAS 157 , which effectively imposed an accounting rule called mark-to-market accounting. Enron and WorldCom had exploited older accounting rules to give an artificially high value to some securities they owned; that let them continue to show good results even as the dot-com boom busted. With mark-to-market, you couldnt do that: a company had to value any securities it held at their  current  market value, whatever it was.  Now we have all the dominoes lined up. Heres what happened: eventually, for various reasons, the housing market stopped going up. House values stopped growing and in fact started decreasing. At the same time, interest rates started to go up as the Federal Reserve Bank thought inflation was becoming a danger. So people who had bought these special subprime mortgages saw their variable interest rates go up, and with them the house payments; at the same time, their houses were worth less. It got to be hard to refinance them and people started losing their houses to foreclosure. As default rates went up, the assumptions about the value of the MBSs didnt make sense any more, so they started to lose value. One day, someone decided to sell their MBSs, even if they took a loss, because they were too risky.  At that moment,  everyone  who held an MBS had to revalue it at the lower value.  Then someone else decided to get out of MBSs; it happened again. At this point, the credit rating agencies noticed that the companies who held these MBSs were losing paper value because of mark-to-market, and reduced the companies credit ratings.  Reducing the credit rating is one of the events that can trigger a CDS: companies that held CDSs started demanding their cash, swapping them for the securities themselves as the contract required. The companies that issued the CDSs wanted to raise more cash and tried to sell the MBSs; this pushed the price down more, causing more markdowns, more CDS claims, and more sales, until suddenly companies like AIG had immense demands for cash, against their new ownership of a bunch of mortgage-backed securities they couldnt sell. (They were illiquid.) At this point weve got, in effect, the classic run on the bank I discussed in my recent article on [7]  IndyMac .  That pretty well gets us to Wednesday, September 17. The Fed reacted, at first, in the usual way it responds to a run on a bank (although AIG wasnt strictly a bank), by taking it over and opening the Federal Reserve vaults to provide cash. (Thats why its the Federal  Reserve  Bank; ever wonder?)  The only thing was, now no one really knew who was still solvent and who else had immense problems because of CDSs  they  held  CDSs arent regulated or traded on a normal market. Banks wouldnt loan money to one another; then the banks started pulling money out of money markets, which serve much the same function that your savings account does for you. But those are themselves backed with something besides cash   Lets take a short side trip here: theres always a trade-off in any loan or bond: the harder it is to get to your money, like a longer-term certificate of deposit, the more the bond will pay; the more risk on a loan, the more the interest rate. So a money market account pays out more or less like cash in a savings account; money markets make a profit by putting most of that money into Treasury bills that dont pay off for months or years.   are themselves backed with something besides cash. Now theres a  second  run on the bank, as if the Bailey Building and Loans problems caused a run on Mr. Potters bank. People start trying to cash in their money markets; the prices of Treasury bonds drop and suddenly theres no cash left.  At that point, banks are no longer lending cash to one another and banks dont have any more cash to lend. The credit market is locked up.  Thats how we got to the night of the 18th.  Bernanke, being a profound student of the Great Depression, must have been having his own visions of bread lines and soup kitchens at that point,...
