Individual Global Investor submits:Economic data from the  Reserve Bank of    Australia yesterday showed the first quarterly decline in Gross Domestic  Product ((GDP)) in more than eight years.  The decline was 0.5% in the fourth quarter of 2008  (ending December) as compared to the third.   This was "unexpected" because Australia had  largely been expected to sidestep the worst of this global  recession and it has so far.  Similar numbers for the US and Japan are -6.2% and -13%  respectively.  When compared to the same quarter in the prior year (the other way of looking at GDP), the numbers are a bit less scary: Should it be surprising  that the Australian economy is beginning to contract?  No.   In general, the Australian economy is composed of two sectors:  resources and financials.  The dynamics of the Australian economy is not unlike that  of Canada.  Take a look at the major index of Australian Stock  Exchange ((ASX)), the S&amp;P/ASX200; two thirds of the market value  of this index is made up by financial, materials, and energy  companies.  Like  Canada, the Australian banks and financial firms have been smartly regulated and have largely avoided the mortgage mess in the US and the structured financial products that have brought down the likes of Citi (C), Bank of America (BAC), and the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS).  There has been a fair bit of colossal destruction of shareholder wealth in the Australian financial sector such as Babcock &amp; Brown (symbol BNB on the ASX), a lesser investment bank, and Centro Properties (CNP.ASX), both down more than 99% since their 2007 highs. All things considered, though, banks such as Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA.ASX), Westpac (WBC.ASX), and the National Bank of Australia (NAB.ASX) have all held up reasonably well.  Their success or failure going forward will depend on how  well the domestic economy holds up.  Australia has no subprime; the RBA has not moved to panicked zero interest rate policies like its Anglo-Saxon brethren; the unemployment rate is still at 4.8%.Complete Story &raquo;    
