Nick Goodway and Joe Murphy   14.11.08       LONDON bankers were facing a new wave of redundancies today as  Britain headed for 20,000 job losses in five days.       Citigroup is to send redundancy notices to 10,000 workers worldwide, many in Canary Wharf, while Royal Bank of Scotland is to shed 3,000 investment bankers, including hundreds in the City, within a month.      In addition, Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks are to axe 350 jobs next year, the union Unite said today.      The scale of the cuts means 20,000 jobs have gone across the country since Monday as the economic downturn strengthens its grip and sends unemployment soaring.      In just a week some of the country&amp;#039;s biggest names  including BT, Virgin Media, GlaxoSmithKline and Taylor Wimpey  have slashed jobs. The cuts have prompted predictions that unemployment will hit two million by Christmas and three million next year.      Not since the recessions of the early Eighties and Nineties have so many large-scale job cuts been announced in such a short space of time across such a wide range of industries.       Unemployment in Britain rose to 1.83&amp;amp;#8201;million this week, its highest level in the 11 years since Labour came to power.      Citigroup will start handing out redundancy notices staff mainly in its investment bank. The Wall Street and Canary Wharf-based bank has lost more than $20&amp;amp;#8201;billion in the past year. Managers have been ordered to cut departmental wage bills by at least 25 per cent.       Royal Bank of Scotland, which is being partly nationalised through a 20&amp;amp;#8201;billion government bail-out, is to make its job cuts over the next four weeks. They are all likely to come in its investment banking division, Global Markets.    The cull will see significant losses in the City. Many casualties are expected to be in what was ABN Amro, the Dutch bank which RBS took over shortly before the credit crunch. High Street operations including its NatWest offshoot are not expected to be affected but with RBS expected to make the first annual loss this year more jobs may be under threat. More banking job cuts are expected with Morgan Stanley due to lose 10 per cent of its worldwide workforce of 4,500. That could lead to about 250 jobs going at its Canary Wharf offices.      One City economist, who asked not to be named, warned the tide of job losses was only the beginning. This is going to get much, much worse, he said.       Many financial markets are totally closed. If you have hundreds of people effectively sitting around doing nothing, they are going to get canned.      He spoke as the Eurozone economy was declared to be in recession today. It&amp;#039;s everywhere, said another economist. Wherever you look around the world, countries are either in recession or about to go into recession. The employment market will reflect that.      Australia and New Zealand Banking group today confirmed that it plans to cut at least 500 jobs in management.      Northern Rock cut 1,300 jobs in August and the Lloyds TSB-HBOS merger, part of the Government&amp;#039;s 37&amp;amp;#8201;billion bail-out, is expected to bring thousands of job losses. Computer and software giant Sun Microsystems, which has offices around the UK including two in the City and one in Camberley, Surrey. today announced 6,000 jobs will go worldwide.      New Star Asset Management has also announced 50 London job cuts. BT announced 10,000 job losses yesterday with up to 7,000 in the UK. Virgin Media is planning to shed 2,200 posts, yellow pages publisher Yell is cutting 1,300 jobs and housebuilder Taylor Wimpey is losing another 1,000.
