More than 49billion was wiped off the FTSE 100 yesterday with the index closing at its lowest in six years.   Demands for fresh bailouts for financial giants HSBC and AIG sparked a rout in global stocks.   The bad news from both sides of the Atlantic pushed the Footsie down 204.26 points to 3625.83, the first time it has closed below 3,700 since April 2003, just after British and U.S. troops began rumbling into Iraq.   Record: HSBC is asking investors for 12.5billion to shore up its finances after revealing its profits plunged 62 per cent last year  Investors switched into panic-selling mode after HSBC, previously viewed as one of the strongest banks in the world, outlined details of its giant 12.5billion shares issue - the biggest cash call in British corporate history.   The bank said it needs the additional funds as a buffer to see it through the recession. More... The TRUTH about Fred the Shred's pension: Now banker is accused of misleading MPs over 700k a year deal   How top five HSBC bankers pocket 32m... despite 60% plunge in profits    Wall Street stocks hit 12-year low as insurer AIG unveils recordbreaking 43.8bn loss  HSBC revealed the fundraising as it reported a 68 per cent fall in annual profits to 6.6billion after it took a whopping 7.5billion charge on its failed U.S. sub-prime finance business. HSBC shares closeddown by almost 19 per cent - down 92.25p to 399p.  The bad news kept on coming as U.S. insurance giant AIG scored an emphatic own goal with the biggest quarterly loss in American history of 44.2billion and then revealed it had taken a government bailout of 20billion. American mortgage giant Freddie Mac, which has also already been bailed out by the Government, said it had received more taxpayer-backed funding of up to 25billion. Experts said the combination of the latest bail-outs spooked investors globally.   The U.S. index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, continued its slide yesterday, opening down more than 2 per cent, dipping below 7,000 for the first time in over 12 years.   The precipitous market falls follow warnings over the weekend from iconic investor Warren Buffet, who said the U.S. economy would remain a 'shambles' this year and beyond.   David Jones, chief market strategist at City spread betting firm IG Index, said: 'While it is very easy to get sucked into the spiral of doom and gloom in markets like these, the problem facing investors is that there really is negligible positive news out there.'   Darren Winder, an equity strategist at investment bank Cazenove, said: 'The capital-raising from HSBC is obviously a major market issue. But more generally it is the weakness of the U.S. market from Friday that is weighing heavily on the markets.'   Investors are also concerned about this week's interest rate decisions from the Bank of England and European Central Bank. Both are expected to cut rates by another half point, bringing borrowing costs to a new low of 0.5 per cent in the UK.   The BoE is also expected to press ahead with plans to begin quantitative easing, which is a way of increasing the money supply into the British economy to ward off the threat of deflation.   There are also significant worries among economists that this week's U.S. jobs data for February could be far worse than previously thought.   Here's what readers have had to say so far. Why not add your thoughts below?  When all this bounces back, and it will eventually, there are going to be some very very rich speculators.   No prizes for guessing who they might be.  - R. James, Expat, Portugal, 02/3/2009 18:30 Hong kong &amp; shanghai banking corporations exposure to the us housing market was said to a level above sub prime,if this was so then it might go some way to explain the dilemma at AIG today.If hsbc did need further funds beyond the proposed rights issue i'think the chinese could come up with some cash.  - robert lang, havant,hants, 02/3/2009 18:19  This Oscar goes to Sir Goodwin for his part in 'The Sting' This Oscar goes to the Government for creating 'Sumbag Millionaires' - john wood, Merseyside, 02/3/2009 17:57 Click on the icon below an article to save to your favourite stories file
