WHEN the near-collapse of one of the country's biggest banks and a subsequent merger which threatens thousands of jobs are seen as helping the Prime Minister's position, you know how bad things have got. But that's the reality of Gordon Brown's plight. Instead of the dithering which characterised the Northern Rock affair last year, at least the Government has given the impression of acting decisively in the HBOS-Lloyds TSB merger. And the very fact that HBOS apparently came so close to collapse may have given Mr Brown an added boost by convincing some MPs to pull back from demanding a change in leader during such turbulence. After a summer of frenzied speculation over Mr Brown's position, and an attempt to force a leadership contest by his own MPs, it must have come as something of a relief to have something other than talk about his future on the front pages in the days before the annual party conference. How different it was 12 months ago when he rode the crest of a wave. How dearly he must wish he had gone ahead with that early election now " or been decisive enough to stamp on the speculation before it reached the fevered levels that sparked the beginning of his woes. Back then, in Bournemouth, it was difficult to find any conference delegate willing to puncture the bubble of party unity. Yet as this year's conference starts in Manchester, we're braced for blood on the walls and skirmishes between different factions in a party which looks increasingly at war with itself and rudderless. If the Prime Minister is to prolong his tenure in Downing Street, there are two clear goals he must achieve over the next five days. Firstly, reasserting his leadership and convincing the party to stop the damaging infighting and back him. And secondly, re-establishing what the party stands for and convincing the public that he has the ideas and policies that will ease their economic pain "in the short term, as well as in years to come. The task is a mammoth one. To say the Prime Minister's conference address on Tuesday needs to be the speech of his life does not do it justice " this needs to be an oration that ranks alongside Abraham Lincoln or Martin Luther King. In truth, even that may not be enough to save Mr Brown. The way some in the party turned on those asking for nomination papers may have inflicted wounds which cannot now be repaired without a change at the helm. Defeat in the Glenrothes by-election this autumn could be the point of no return. To have any chance of avoiding that, he needs to start talking in a language the public can understand. When families are worried about the price of a litre of petrol and the cost of a loaf of bread, talking global economics offers little hope of things getting any easier. For all Labour suspicions about David Cameron's background, the Tory leader is far more comfortable talking to the man in the street. A dose of honesty and humility would work wonders, too. When Mr Brown has spent the last decade claiming sole responsibility for economic stability, it is simply not credible to wash his hands of all blame for the current turmoil, however much external factors are at play. Admitting some of the mistakes made over the past year is also an important step " apologising for the 10p tax debacle should be at the top of the list. Next he needs to produce a vision that sets out what the Labour Party stands for. Labour MPs were stunned during the 10p tax row as voters said they were no longer sure what, or who, the party stood for. Ministers mock Tory talk of social justice, but Mr Brown has only himself to blame if voters find appeal in the new Conservative talk. And, above all, now is the time to heed calls from colleagues to be bold. People have been stunned by the size of rises in food, fuel and energy bills. Yet the answer to a 30 per cent hike in your gas bill is a discount on insulation which you might be able to get fitted next spring. And as a first-time buyer struggling to get on the housing ladder, you are offered a temporary stamp duty exemption on properties up to 175,000 when in London you're lucky to find a one-bedroom flat for less than 200,000. Is it any wonder voters are unimpressed? Why not introduce longer-lasting reforms to stamp duty that better reflect house prices? He could reverse the unfair decision to apply huge tax rises for the most polluting vehicles on cars bought before the increase was agreed. And with demands for a windfall tax on energy companies due to give Mr Brown a conference headache, perhaps he needs to secure more from the generators to fund something more tangible for people feeling the pinch this winter. A disorganised rebellion may not be enough to get rid of the Prime Minister yet, but discontent within the Cabinet is mounting. The next few days will be crucial in determining if he can stage an extraordinary recovery, or whether his fate is already sealed.
