Hundreds of holidaymakers at Bristol International Airport were among 300,000 people left angry and disappointed after the biggest ever collapse of a tour operator in Britain.In a shattering blow for the travel industry, XL Leisure Group called in the administrators at 3am yesterday after rescue talks broke down.The failure of the country's third biggest tour operator leaves almost 100,000 tourists stranded without flights, mainly in America, the Caribbean and Mediterranean.The Civil Aviation Authority and rival airlines have been organising the industry's largest ever 'air-lift' to get holidaymakers home.As many as 200,000 other customers have now been left with worthless tickets.And passengers' frustrations have escalated further after rumours that the tour operator has been trying to refinance its 200 million debts, after previous backer Barclays got cold feet, came to light. The company had continued trading until it went bust, it is thought bosses were hoping a 'white knight' investor would save them.Passengers who tried to check in at Bristol for the 7am Tenerife flight and the 6.40pm Heraklion flight were told it was cancelled. About 150 people were booked on each flight.The 4.20pm arrival from Tenerife yesterday and all 10 flights to and from Bristol over the weekend have also been cancelled.The luck of a group of nine divers who won a luxury diving holiday to the Red Sea ran out  yesterday they were on their way home to Calne, Wiltshire, from Gatwick Airport.Ted Weeks, 58, said he and his friends at Calne Divers had won a holiday to El Gouna, Egypt, for eight, but had clubbed between them to pay for the ninth person.He said: 'We're a bit miffed. We've been looking forward to this trip for 11 months now. It's been really hard for the nine of us to find a week that we could all get off work so it's taken this long to go.'He said he realised that XL had gone into administration before he left but had decided to go to the airport anyway.He said: 'The whole thing was booked with XL.'We've been told there's no chance of us going now so we're all off home. We're all going to go for a curry tonight instead. It's not really the same though.'BIA chief executive Paul Kehoe said administrators turned up yesterday morning to formally advise the airport that the company had ceased trading.Mr Kehoe said: 'There is an XL base here, there are clearly staff who will be affected by this decision. The other operators, like Ryanair, easyJet, Thomas Cook, are rock solid, it looks like it's business as usual for all the others.'The unfortunate demise of XL may help the other operators. It may be those passengers might want to fly with other carriers.'Meanwhile, stranded holiday maker Thomas Barrell, 28 from Clifton, slammed the tour operator for ignoring the plight of thousands of tourists. He was one of 87,000 people trapped abroad, being in Majorca when friends in Bristol, told him about the company's demise.Yesterday IT service manager Mr Barrell was planning to pay for a ticket home if he was still stranded by the end of today. He said: 'I have been calling the company's hotline but there is a message saying they are busy all the time. The people at the hotel don't have a clue what is happening either. At the moment it looks like I am going to have to pay for a flight back to the UK. I am very angry about the situation, these things don't happen over night.'Mr Barrell purchased the holiday to Palma for himself and his friend on sunfaze.com at a cost of 610 each.Paula Phelps, who lives in Chepstow, wrote on a website forum: 'My family and I were due to travel to Orlando with Travel City Direct in October.'As recently as this Monday they took more money off me to upgrade the car and luggage capacity. Absolutely gutted this morning, especially on hearing that as we paid by debit card we have no come-back there.'The Civil Aviation Authority and other travel companies launched an operation to help holidaymakers stranded by the collapse.Rival airlines British Airways and Ryanair offered to help bring stranded XL holidaymakers home. Ryanair offered the CAA the use of one of its spare Boeing 737-800 aircraft for the next fortnight. BA said it would extend special one-way fares to XL customers stranded in Florida, the Caribbean, Israel, Egypt and all European destinations. It is also offering discounted tickets to those who booked holidays through XL but had yet to travel.Budget airline easyJet offered stranded passengers a rescue flight at 75.Phil Wyatt, chief executive of the XL Leisure Group, based near Gatwick, said: 'We have made every effort to refinance the principal debt of the group but, despite significant interest, the group was unsuccessful. More recently, record oil prices and a worsening economic environment has meant our economic requirements have increased and our efforts have been overwhelmed.'Spencer Davis, cabin crew with the XL Leisure Group for five years, said: 'There are a lot of people who woke up this morning without work.'
