 staff in the Halifax area of West Yorkshire where one of the early 'permanent' societies was formed in 1853 and initially known as The Halifax Permanent Building and Investment Society.It originally operated from a room over a shop in the town's Old Market and in 1913 was established as ther UK's biggest building society. Workers leaving HBOS's headquarters in Commercial Street at lunchtime were still digesting news of a prospective merger with Lloyds TSB. One woman member of staff said: 'No one has job security anymore. When you used to work for the Halifax, it was a job for life. Those days are gone now.' HBOS customers in Yorkshire were reacting stoically to the banking crisis with no repeat of the queues that formed outside branches of the Northern Rock when its financial problems surfaced a year ago. People using HBOS in Leeds city centre felt there was no immediate need to panic as news of a possible merger with Lloyds TSB broke. Richard Bonham, 31, a theatre director from Leeds said: 'Personally I don't have any savings here but I have them in a different bank, spread it around and not have all my eggs in one basket. I own my house so I don't need to worry about a mortgage.' Susan Tusker, 60, who retired recently, said: 'I'm worried about my lump sum pension that I only put in last year, but I'm not going to panic yet because I think people are making it out to be worse than it is. 'I am concerned and I checked on it last week but I will leave it at the moment - if things are bad six months down the line that will be my panic button.' Val Rose, from Pudsey, West Yorks., said: 'We are a bit of a scaremongering country and we create a lot of panic. It's not an immediate problem so I haven't cleared out all my accounts just yet. 'Normal people don't have to worry, it's only the very rich who have stocks and a lot of cash to lose should be panicked. I can't hear alarm bells ringing yet.' The mood was similar at HBOS branches in the centre of Sheffield. One man emerged smiling from the High Street branch, explaining: 'Worried, me? Why should I be worried? I've just bought a load of Halifax shares at a knockdown price.' At the branch on The Moor, Dennis Pett, 83, a retired toolmaker, said: 'When I got a mortgage with the Halifax 52 years ago you had to save first and prove you could pay a mortgage then it still wasn't easy to borrow money, now they throw money at people whether they can afford to repay it or not.'
