Cheryl CairaThe mood of customers outside one branch of Halifax Bank of Scotland (HBOS) yesterday was one of uncertainty and apprehension.In Bridge of Allan, local residents visited the bank, hoping for some reassurance on the future of their savings.Sandra Simpson, 57, was frustrated by the lack of information surrounding the merger. advertisement She said: 'I'm not happy that HBOS has been taken over. The workers need information, but so do the customers. 'We've not been told anything at all about what we need to do with our accounts or our mortgages. My mortgage is with HBOS so that's why I've been in just now to talk about the situation as to what I do next. 'I've got a lot of money tied up in the bank. I'd be very sad to think that I'd be losing the people I've come to know. 'Customer service here is great and we've had it for many, many years. I think in banking we need personal one-to-one service. 'We are losing an awful lot, I'll be sad to lose HBOS. I am thinking of looking around and going somewhere else.' Bruce Gauld, 49, was concerned about the possible loss of his local branch, but felt relieved that his finances now seemed more secure. He said: 'The staff are very informative and helpful. It's good to have our own bank in Scotland and it would be a shame if we lost that. It's always good to have a choice. The bulk of my savings are in HBOS and also my mortgage, so as long as that's secure, you sleep easier at night, don't you? 'You think about the staff that work in the bank as well, you've got to look after their jobs.' Chris Sinclair, 32, also an HBOS customer, said: 'I don't think the takeover is a good idea. 'I just don't trust Lloyds. They're a bit more personal in HBOS - you're on a first name basis in there.' Jo Sauvory, 42, a customer at the Lloyds TSB branch in Bridge of Allan, just yards away from the HBOS building, was shocked at the speed of the takeover. She said: 'One minute they were talking about it and the next minute it happened. The monopoly on the banking industry could be an issue. 'With the economy as it is, long term I could see that it could cause problems when it comes to applying for mortgages in the future. There are obviously other branches of HBOS and Lloyds TSB, so there is going to be at least one branch here. 'I can't see that anywhere will be without a branch, I wouldn't have thought that's what they'll do. If it saves someone from going out of business, it's got to be better than going out of business altogether.' Anne Roberts, 56, also a Lloyds TSB customer, was positive about the merger. She said: 'I don't think it'll affect the bank's services in general. I think interest rates may change, but it depends what time scale you're talking about. As a saver, I feel relieved.' 
