Tens of thousands of British holidaymakers have been stranded by the collapse of the UK's third largest tour operator.XL Leisure Group, based in Crawley, West Sussex, called in the administrators early this morning after the failure of last minute talks with its financial backers - Icelandic investment group Straumur and Barclays. Its , leaving an estimated 85,000 people stranded abroad, while a further 200,000 have made advance bookings with the company, many of whom will lose out.The company, which employs 1,700 people worldwide, flies to more than 50 destinations across Europe and Africa and sells through tour operator brands including The Really Great Holiday Company and Aspire Holidays.The Civil Aviation Authority said it is trying to arrange flights to bring XL's customers back to the UK.The first indication that anything was wrong for many holidaymakers came as they reached the airport this morning to discover that their flight had been cancelled. Other airlines are reporting a massive increase in demand for flights as XL customers try desperately to make alternative arrangements.The company is the latest travel firm to be forced under by the twin pressures of rising fuel costs and tough financial markets. . 'The Companies entered into administration having suffered as a result of volatile fuel prices, the economic downturn, and were unable to obtain further funding,' administrators Kroll said in a statement.As stranded passengers try to get home, there are likely to be many more thousands of XL customers worried about whether they will get any money back from their bookings.Customers who booked through four tour operators - The Really Great Holiday Company, Kosmar Holidays, Freedom Flights, and Aspire Holidays - are protected under the Air Travel Organiser's Licenses (ATOL).A spokesman for ATOL described the group's collapse as 'a huge failure' and urged holidaymakers to be patient. 'With XL Airways no longer operating we are having to bring in substitute aircraft to bring people home. We ask people to be patient while we organise that ... bear with us, this is a huge failure. Our priority is the stranded passengers abroad and getting them back to the UK. 'Clearly if people do incur some additional costs, if they are delayed in their return, then they can put a claim in to the CAA under the ATOL scheme.' In a statement, rival travel company TUI - owner of Thomson and First Choice - called on the government to strengthen the protection given to holidaymakers when they book their trips. 'In the current environment where the price of oil has increased substantially, we are continuously seeing airlines with less than robust business models failing,' said Peter Long, chief executive, TUI Travel. 'This week alone both Futura and now XL have had to suspend or cease operations. Unfortunately, many people believe that they will be protected when this arises and this is not the case.' 'Scheduled airlines, low cost airlines and online intermediaries, unlike tour operators, are not bonded which leaves their customers stranded or unable to get their money back in the event of failure. We at TUI Travel, as the leading European leisure travel company, will help where we can but it is time that the government realised that there needs to be a level playing field for all providers of overseas leisure travel arrangements.' XL Leisure includes XL Airways UK Limited, Excel Aviation Limited, Explorer House Limited, Aspire Holidays Limited, Freedom Flights Limited, Freedom Flights (Aviation) Limited, The Really Great Holiday Company, Medlife Hotels Limited, Travel City Flights Limited and Kosmar Villa , all of which have been placed into administration.
