 THE dollar was marginally softer late yesterday after a rebound in its US counterpart pulled the high-yielding commodity currency back from recent record highs.The US dollar benefited from a turnaround in US equities markets on Wednesday on better than expected results from US bank Wells Fargo and a fall in the price of oil. The Aussie is expected to consolidate gains of the past week but remain capped around its recent 25-year high of US98.49c. The dollar closed locally at US97.65c, down slightly from Wednesday's US97.78c, and at Y102.63, up from Y102.13. St George Bank senior markets economist Besa Deda said that while the firmer US dollar presented some headwinds, the Australian unit was unlikely to break out of its upward technical channel towards fresh 25-year highs. 'I wouldn't be getting too downbeat on the Aussie even with some further declines, and parity still looks a possibility,' she said. The dollar could lose another one to two US cents and remained well positioned for a run to parity with the US unit, Ms Deda added. Contributing to the Aussie's heavier tone yesterday was a continued shift in expectations towards Reserve Bank of Australia interest rate cuts. This followed RBA governor Glenn Stevens' comment on Wednesday that domestic demand growth was moderating in line with the central bank's expectations. Australian bond futures were mixed, with short-end bonds weakening after global share markets continued their recovery, while longer-dated bonds fell on expectations of lower interest rates. The September three-year contract was one tick lower at 93.58, while 10-year futures rose 1.5 ticks to 93.7. As a result, the spread between three and 10-year bond yields has fallen slightly deeper, to about negative 12.5 basis points, from negative seven on Wednesday. But the spread remains much closer to flat than it was in late June when it was about negative 38 basis points, and market participants were pricing in a 60 per cent chance of a quarter percentage point RBA rate rise this year. Credit market participants have now almost completely eliminated pricing an RBA rise this year and are now looking at a 44 per cent chance of a cut in the next 12 months. Lehman Brothers chief economist Stephen Roberts said there was scope for the Aussie dollar to pull back in the medium term. 'If this rebound we're getting in US equity markets gains much pace and leads to some improvement in the US dollar, it would be very surprising if we don't see commodity prices coming back to some degree,' Mr Roberts said. 'That might start to bring the Australian dollar down.' Dow Jones NewswiresFor Toby Hassall's commodities wrap, go to www.theaustralian.com.au/business. Boardroom Radio 
