 LONDON (Reuters) - The bluechip index ended higher to snap three consecutive sessions of declines on Tuesday, as merger activity boosted British Airways while banks and oil shares both weighed. The FTSE 100  index was up 6.6 points, or 0.1 percent, at 5,319.2, after falling to 5,261.4 earlier in the session. The benchmark index is down 17.6 percent for the year to date.On the upside, British Airways led the way, gaining 6 percent after it said it was in merger talks with Spains Iberia . A tie-up would create the worlds third-biggest airline, which could form the basis of a three-way transatlantic tie-up and trigger a fresh wave of industry deals.Oil shares were the biggest drag on the index, as U.S. crude prices fell to $121 a barrel. BG Group and Shell shed 1.4-3.1 percent. BP also reversed earlier gains to dip 2.5 percent despite reporting better-than-forecast quarterly profits. Banks also featured on the downside after Merrill Lynchs $5.7 billion (2.88 billion pounds) third-quarter writedowns raised fresh concerns over the embattled sector.Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HBOS and Standard Chartered were down between 1.7 and 5.1 percent.Adding to the banks gloom, Merrill Lynch .....continued belowstartsends said in a research report to clients that it was raising its additional possible writedown estimate for European banks to $58 billion from $22 billion. 'Its been another largely uneventful day for the London index although there have been some pockets of excitement amongst the usual suspects,' said Jimmy Yates, a dealer at CMC Markets. 'Banks are still acting as something of a millstone for the FTSE 100 again with the downbeat outlook from across the Atlantic dominating sentiment here,' he added. 'And with the sector having rebounded hard over the last couple of weeks, theres arguably some profit taking potential here to be wary of too.' Among other advancers, heavyweight Vodafone rose 3.1 percent after shareholders voted overwhelmingly to support a 1 billion pound share buyback the company announced last week after its stock crashed on a weaker-than-expected trading update.On the macro front, approvals for home loans in June hit their lowest since records began and retail sales fell at their fastest pace in at least a quarter century. 'We are heading into a backdrop of a UK economy which is clearly suffering. We even have the prospect that the Bank of England might raise interest rates some time in the near future. Its not going to help the market. Its a toxic combination of events,' said Peter Dixon, UK economist at Commerzbank.U.S. consumer confidence crept higher in July from the previous months 16-year low however, as worries over inflation receded slightly.Compass Group , the worlds biggest caterer, tacked on 6.3 percent, one day after posting third quarter profit margins and revenues, excluding acquisitions, in line with the levels seen in the first half.Traders said the rebound was down to positive broker comment.LONDON (Reuters) - The bluechip index ended higher to snap three consecutive sessions of declines on Tuesday, as merger activity boosted British Airways while banks and oil shares both weighed. The FTSE 100  index was up 6.6 points, or 0.1 percent, at 5,319.2, after falling to 5,261.4 earlier in the session. The benchmark index is down 17.6 percent for the year to date.On the upside, British Airways led the way, gaining 6 percent after it said it was in merger talks with Spains Iberia . A tie-up would create the worlds third-biggest airline, which could form the basis of a three-way transatlantic tie-up and trigger a fresh wave of industry deals.Oil shares were the biggest drag on the index, as U.S. crude prices fell to $121 a barrel. BG Group and Shell shed 1.4-3.1 percent. BP also reversed earlier gains to dip 2.5 percent despite reporting better-than-forecast quarterly profits. Banks also featured on the downside after Merrill Lynchs $5.7 billion (2.88 billion pounds) third-quarter writedowns raised fresh concerns over the embattled sector.Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HBOS and Standard Chartered were down between 1.7 and 5.1 percent.Adding to the banks gloom, Merrill Lynch said in a research report to clients that it was raising its additional possible writedown estimate for European banks to $58 billion from $22 billion. 'Its been another largely uneventful day for the London index although there have been some pockets of excitement amongst the usual suspects,' said Jimmy Yates, a dealer at CMC Markets. 'Banks are still acting as something of a millstone for the FTSE 100 again with the downbeat outlook from across the Atlantic dominating sentiment here,' he added. 'And with the sector having rebounded hard over the last couple of weeks, theres arguably some profit taking potential here to be wary of too.' Among other advancers, heavyweight Vodafone rose 3.1 percent after shareholders voted overwhelmingly to support a 1 billion pound share buyback the company announced last week after its stock crashed on a weaker-than-expected trading update.On the macro front, approvals for home loans in June hit their lowest since records began and retail sales fell at their fastest pace in at least a quarter century. 'We are heading into a backdrop of a UK economy which is clearly suffering. We even have the prospect that the Bank of England might raise interest rates some time in the near future. Its not going to help the market. Its a toxic combination of events,' said Peter Dixon, UK economist at Commerzbank.U.S. consumer confidence crept higher in July from the previous months 16-year low however, as worries over inflation receded slightly.Compass Group , the worlds biggest caterer, tacked on 6.3 percent, one day after posting third quarter profit margins and revenues, excluding acquisitions, in line with the levels seen in the first half.Traders said the rebound was down to positive broker comment. Vedanta Resources rose 2 percent as the India-focused metals group posted a 6.3 percent rise in first-quarter core earnings as higher output outweighed weaker zinc prices and rising costs. 'In due course this market goes lower,' said Richard Cunningham, analyst at Alecto Financial. 'Its a tricky one but we take the view that when you see strength in the markets, it tends to be an opportunity to be selling (and) not to be subscribing to the idea that weve finished the downtrend.' (Additional reporting by Dominic Lau and Atul Prakash; Editing by Malcolm Whittaker)
