 (RTTNews) - Tuesday morning, the New Zealand dollar showed mixed trading against its major counterparts. The kiwi showed weakness against the euro and the yen, but traded higher versus the Aussie. The New Zealand currency thus dropped to a multi-week low against the yen and climbed to an 8-day high versus the Aussie. Against the US currency, the NZ dollar recovered from a 4-day low.Against the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar extended its Asian session downtrend during early European trading on Tuesday. At about 5.35 am Eastern Time, the kiwi-yen pair touched a multi-week low of 80.24, compared to 80.99 hit late New York Monday.Managers at large-scale Japanese companies were less optimistic about business conditions in June, the Bank of Japan's latest tankan survey showed. The headline diffusion index in the central bank's quarterly survey of corporate sentiment showed that conditions among large manufacturers worsened to 5 in June from 11 in the March survey. Most economists were forecasting a decline to 3 in the diffusion index. It marked the third straight on-quarter decline, and sent the index to its lowest reading since September 2003.Following the Tankan report, the Japanese Economy Minister Hiroko Ota said the economy needs careful monitoring but added she doesn't think it will slow down drastically. 'The bad tankan results are clearly reflecting the recent high material costs and a slowing down of the U.S. economy,' Ota said at a regular press conference.Against the Australian dollar, the New Zealand currency showed strength in early deals on Tuesday. At about 3.15 am ET, the kiwi climbed to an 8-day high of 1.2552, compared to 1.2583 hit late New York Monday. Currently, the Aussie-kiwi pair is quoted at 1.2570.As widely expected, the Reserve Bank of Australia kept the overnight cast rate target unchanged at a 12-year high of 7.25% for a fourth straight month as a slump in stock markets, record gasoline prices and a drop in employment decrease consumer confidence and force companies to trim spending. The central bank last raised the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point in March 2008, the fourth increase in seven months.
