 The domestic bond market closed firmer as dealers focused on the troubled US mortgage sector, and dismissed the minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's July board meeting. At 1630 AEST, the yield on the Commonwealth Government March 2019 bond was at 6.310 per cent, down from Monday's close of 6.415, while the June 2011 bond was at 6.462 per cent, down from 6.573 per cent. On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the September 10-year bond futures contract was at 93.705, up from yesterday's close of 93.600, while the September three-year contract was at 93.530, up from 93.430. The Australian bond market closed firmer for the first time since Thursday as dealers kept their minds on America's troubled lending sector. Confidence in the US finance sector tumbled overnight as consumers queued up outside branches of IndyMac Bancorp, which was seized by US regulators on Friday. The US Treasury and US Federal Reserve are jointly propping up large mortgage finance providers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Westpac senior market strategist Damien McColough said worries about slower global growth spurred a rally in US and Australian bonds. 'It's all about risk aversion and the change in focus to growth implications and ongoing issues in the US housing market and the banking sector.' The Australian bond market had opened firmer on Tuesday, taking its lead from US Treasuries. Mr McColough said the back-end of the curve enjoyed a stronger rally, because the futures contract price action was more responsive to global credit concerns. The bond market was little impact the RBA released the minutes of its July 1 board meeting, at which its members had voted to keep official interest rates on hold at 7.25 per cent for the fourth successive month. 'The Reserve Bank minutes - essentially they just confirmed what was already known,' Mr McColough said. The RBA minutes cited easing domestic demand pressures as on reason while rates were left on hold this month. 'On balance, while members remained concerned about the current rate of inflation and the uncertainties about the outlook, the increasing signs that demand was slowing suggested that the existing policy was exerting the appropriate degree of restraint,' the RBA said. The Australian bond market could rally tonight if US retail sales data for June shows any sign of weakness. On Wednesday, RBA governor Glenn Stevens is due to speak about economic challenges at a charity lunch in Sydney. With local June quarter consumer price index data due on July 23, Mr McColough said the market would be listening for clues on whether the RBA would tolerate high inflation amid concerns about the slowing pace of growth. 
