 THE credit squeeze is taking its toll on business, with sales, profits and confidence dropping to their lowest level since 2001.Companies are starting to slash their employment plans as forward orders vanish, according to the National Australia Bank's monthly business survey. 'The Reserve Bank should keep interest rates on hold and watch these tighter financial conditions flow through the economy,' the NAB head of Australian economics Jeff Oughton said yesterday. 'The way we think it will pan out, they will be looking at interest rate cuts before the end of next year.' The bank's monthly measure of business confidence has been weakening since September. But its measure of business conditions, which assesses trends in profits, sales and employment, had remained strong. Many economists believed the drop in confidence was a temporary funk from which the economy would soon recover. However, Mr Oughton said the seven percentage point plunge in the business conditions index in the past month showed real economic growth was weakening. The index has fallen to zero, where companies experiencing weaker conditions equal those with improving results. Mr Oughton said business was facing a series of shocks, of which the loss of customer confidence was the most immediate. 'The biggest fall in business conditions has been in durable goods retailing, with items such as household appliances and cars, as well as personal and recreational services.' Business was also suffering from higher interest rates and reduced availability of credit, while the cost of many inputs, particularly energy, had soared. 'This is making business begin to re-assess the outlook as current conditions prove weaker than was expected,' Mr Oughton said. The downturn has been experienced across the board. For the first time in six years, all industrial and service business sectors - even the mining industry - have cut their employment plans. NAB expects unemployment to rise over the remainder of the year, possibly rising from its current 4.4 per cent to 5 per cent in the course of next year. The NAB survey is followed by the Reserve Bank, which pays particular attention to its measure of spare capacity in the business sector. It has partly justified its interest rate rises over the past year - to a 12-year high of 7.25per cent - by using the NAB survey to show spare capacity is at record lows. However, over the past two months the level of capacity utilisation has dipped from a record level of 84 to 83 per cent. The index of forward orders, which points to the outlook over the next six months, has fallen for three consecutive months and now stands at negative 3, showing more companies are suffering falls in orders than increases. Matthew Johnson, senior economist with finance broker ICAP, said the survey's measure of the fall in employment showed that the cutbacks in job advertising in recent months reflected a real collapse in the demand for labour. He said the NAB survey had a good record of a reasonably accurate assessment of the economy. 'What it is telling me just now is that the economy is slowing quite rapidly.' However, he said it was premature to talk of interest rate cuts. 
