 Stagflation, that ugly word combining the ugly combination of economic stagnation and high inflation, is afoot in New Zealand, confirmed by this morning's release of an influential business survey.The New Zealand Institute of Economic Research (NZIER) has just published its Quarterly Survey of Business Opinion for the June 2008 quarter. It shows a 'picture of negative economic growth and strong, persistent inflationary pressures' - stagflation underway. This research - which looks ahead to what business plans to do over the next few months - is an important factor when it comes to the Reserve Bank making its decision on official interest rates.Statistics New Zealand recently reported that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell by 0.3 per cent in the March 2008 quarter. 'Indicators of domestic trading activity from the latest QSBO suggest economic activity declined further in the June quarter and is likely to decline again in the September quarter which will make it three quarters of negative economic growth in a row,' says the NZIER. On a seasonally adjusted basis, the survey showed a net 18 per cent of firms reported a decline in their own activity and a net 18 per cent expect their trading activity to fall in the next three months. 'These figures are at their most negative since June 1998 and December 1982, respectively.' While economic activity is clearing falling, inflation pressure is still strong, says the survey. 'While there has been a notable easing in the difficulty finding labour, other indicators of inflation (capacity utilisation, pricing and cost experiences and intentions) suggest that strong inflationary pressures will persist, which will increase the Reserve Banks discomfort in relation to pricing intentions and inflationary expectations.' It's not all bad news in the survey though. Although indicators of activity dropped sharply in the latest survey, indicators of confidence about the general business situation improved slightly. 'They remain near low levels compared with historical experience, however. On a seasonally adjusted basis, a net 54 per cent of firms expect the general business situation to deteriorate in the next six months. This compares with a net balance of 56 per cent of firms which expected a deteriorating business situation in the March survey. The 56 per cent figure was the highest expecting deterioration since December 2005.' On the employment front, a net 6 per cent of firms intend to decrease staff over the next three months, compared with a net 3 per cent of firms that actually decreased staff in the past three months.Chief economist at ASB Bank, Nick Tuffley yesterday said the 'QSBO' survey received 'very close attention' from the Reserve Bank, as the details gave a lot of insight into both short-term activity trends as well as how the ground is shifting on the inflation front.He predicted the message from the latest survey was 'likely to be weak activity and reducing capacity constraints, but tempered with signs that cost pressures such as energy are generating greater desire to attempt to raise prices to recover the impact.' But at a retail level there would be 'very little scope' to pass on higher costs in a market of weakening demand and 'extreme price sensitivity.'
