 INTEREST rates are likely to remain steady as prices continued to rise in the June quarter, with inflation at its highest levels since the early 1990s.Inflation pressures accelerated during the three months to June, lifting the annual rate to 4.5 per cent and well outside the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) target band of between 2 and 3 per cent. Australia's trimmed mean consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.2 per cent in the June quarter, for an annual growth rate of 4.3 per cent, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said today.The Reserve Bank considers the average of the weighted median CPI, which rose 1.0 per cent in the June quarter, with an annual rise of 4.5 per cent, when determining interest rates. Adelaide's trimmed mean CPI rose 1.3 per cent in the June quarter to reach 4.6 per cent annually - second highest among other capital cities behind Brisbane which rose 1.7 per cent to hit an annual rate of 5.1 per cent. The most significant price rises were for deposit and loan facilities (+9.5%), automotive fuel (+8.7%), rents (+2.2%), hospital and medical services (+4.0%), house purchase (+1.0%), furniture (+3.1%), and spirits (+6.1%). However, the cost of other financial services (2.9%), fruit (7.4%), vegetables (6.5%), domestic holiday travel and accommodation (2.0%) and electricity (1.4%) offset those increases. Market economists had expected the average of the two measures to rise by 1.1 per cent in the June quarter for an annual rate of 4.4 per cent. The headline CPI rose 1.5 per cent in the June quarter, for an annual rate of 4.5 per cent. ANZ economist Riki Polygenis said the RBA was more likely to keep interest rates on hold at 7.25 per cent, as it waited for a slowdown in domestic demand to bring down price pressures. 'The Reserve Bank will be on hold for the next few months but it's too early to call the peak in inflation,'' she said. 'The lag between economic activity and inflation is 18 months.' 'Inflation will stay above the target band for some time.' With The AustralianMore to comeShare this article  
