 Starbucks announces it will close 600 storesStarbucks Corp. said Tuesday it will close 600 company-operated stores in the next year, up dramatically from its previous plan for 100 closures, a sign the coffee shop operator is still feeling the pain from the faltering U.S. economy.Starbucks said in a statement that 70 percent of the stores to be closed were opened after the start of 2006. The locations set to close include ones that 'were not profitable and not projected to provide acceptable returns in the foreseeable future,' it said.About 12,000 workers will be affected by the closings, which are expected to take place over the next year, according to Valerie O'Neill, a spokeswoman for the company.O'Neill said most of the employees will be moved to nearby stores, but she did not know exactly how many jobs will be lost.OMAHA, NEB.E. coli link results in Nebraska Beef recallNebraska Beef Ltd. is recalling nearly 532,000 pounds of ground beef produced in the past two months because the meat has been linked to an outbreak of E. coli illnesses.The federal government said late Monday that some of the Omaha-based company's beef was sold by grocer Kroger Co., and investigators traced the meat to Nebraska Beef after 38 people in Ohio and Michigan became ill. Kroger already recalled beef it sold in those states.Much of the beef that Nebraska Beef is recalling was sold to wholesalers or other processing companies, so it may be difficult for consumers to determine if they have any of the beef.Beef involved in the recall went to businesses in Nebraska, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas.Nebraska Beef was not Kroger's only beef supplier.BANGKOK, THAILANDOil prices rise above $141 a barrel in AsiaOil rose above $141 a barrel in Asia on Monday as expectations of a weaker dollar spurred investors to seek refuge in dollar-denominated oil futures as a hedge against inflation.'The main factors behind the rise today are the U.S. dollar remains fragile and geopolitical tensions, particularly surrounding Iran,' said David Moore, a commodity strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. 'That's unsettling for the oil market.'Light, sweet crude for August delivery rose $1.60 to $141.81 a barrel in Asian electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, midday in Singapore.DETROITGM holds off Toyota, but June sales fallGeneral Motors Corp. soundly beat Toyota Motor Corp. in June to retain its traditional U.S. sales lead, but GM sales still dropped 18.2 percent during a dismal month for most large automakers.Toyota's U.S. sales fell 21.4 percent, while Ford Motor Co. said it sales tumbled nearly 28 percent.GM's shares bounced nearly 6 percent higher in afternoon trading Tuesday after sinking to their lowest level in more than a half century during Monday's session.The nation's biggest automaker on Tuesday reported selling 262,329 vehicles for the month, compared with Toyota's 193,234. Some industry analysts had expected Toyota to beat GM in the U.S. for the first time, but both companies were hurt by a sluggish economy and poor sales of trucks and sport utility vehicles.Toyota car sales fell 9.4 percent in June while its truck sales were off 38.8 percent.GM's car sales sank 21 percent in June, while its incentive-boosted truck sales were off 16 percent.Be the first to comment on this story!You must register and be to post a comment.We encourage your comments, but we ask that you keep them civil and appropriate.Please read our rules of engagementBy clicking on 'Post Comment' you acknowledge that you have read the Terms of Service and the comment you are posting is in compliance with such terms. Be polite. Inappropriate posts may be removed by the moderator. Contact site Administrator
