 The Australian and New Zealand dollars fell for a third day as prices of commodities the nations export declined.The New Zealand and Australian dollars were the second and third-worst performers, respectively, among the 16 most-active currencies against the US dollar on speculation that slowing economic growth will spur their central banks to cut interest rates. Traders also sold New Zealand's currency as the yield spread between 10-year New Zealand and US government bonds narrowed to the least in almost eight months.''We may have seen a peak in the Australian dollar with the positive factors that have worked so strongly to see the currency gain, starting to reverse,'' wrote London-based Stephen Koukoulas, head of global foreign exchange and fixed-income strategy at TD Securities Ltd., in a research note.Australia's dollar dropped to 97.07 US cents in afternoon trading in Sydney from 97.60 cents late in Asia yesterday. It reached a 25-year high of 98.49 US cents on July 16, and headed for a fifth weekly advance, its longest winning run since Oct. 12. The currency traded at 103.23 yen from 102.95 yen.New Zealand's dollar declined 0.8% to 76.28 US cents. It touched a six-week high of 77.60 US cents on July 16, and was poised for a second weekly advance. The currency bought 81.10 yen, from 81.09 yen.The Australian dollar fell to as low as 96.78 US cents, the weakest since July 15, after the USBloomberg Constant Maturity Commodity Index of 26 commodities dropped 2.1%, taking its loss this week to 6%.'Degree of Restraint'Commodity prices influence the Australian and New Zealand dollars because raw materials account for 60% of Australia's exports, while sales of commodities including lumber make up 70% of New Zealand's overseas shipments.Rising dairy prices fanned the terms of trade index, which measures the amount of imports New Zealand can buy from a fixed quantity of exports, to a 24-year high in the first quarter, according to government data.The Australian currency's decline began this week after Reserve Bank of Australia Glenn Stevens signaled on July 16 that borrowing costs were high enough to curb rising prices. Minutes from the RBA's July 1 meeting released on July 15 showed current policy was ''exerting the appropriate degree of restraint.''Interest-rate betsA Credit Suisse Group index based on interest-rate swaps indicates the RBA will lower its 7.25% benchmark interest rate by 11 basis points in the next 12 months. Trading suggested expectations for a 2 basis point increase at the start of the week. The RBA typically moves rates by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point.
