 LONDON (Reuters) - The top share index closed 1.3 percent lower on Tuesday, driven down by sharp falls in heavyweight commodity stocks that tracked crude and metal prices lower, while banks continued to struggle.The commodity-heavy FTSE 100  was down 72.2 points at 5,440.5 after gaining 1.9 percent on Monday. The benchmark index has fallen about 16 percent this year.Mining shares slipped with a decline in key base metals prices, and oil shares fell sharply after crude prices slid nearly 4 percent. BP lost 3.4 percent, Royal Dutch Shell dropped 2.3 percent and gas producer BG Group slipped 4.4 percent.Banks, the sector worst hit by a global credit crisis that has slowed the global economy and led to massive writedowns and capital increases, remained in the doldrums.Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HSBC , HBOS , Lloyds TSB , Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester shed between 1.0 and 2.8 percent.Analysts feared the economy could slide into a recession, with the British Chambers of Commerce saying that unemployment could rise by as much as 300,000 by the end of 2009.Latest economic figures also painted a grim picture for the U.S. economy. Data showed on Tuesday that pending sales of previously-owned U.S. homes plummeted 4.7 percent .....continued belowstartsends in May, against economists expectations of a 2.8 percent fall. And bank Barclays unit Firstplus, a provider of homeowner loans, planned to stop lending to new customers next month due to slowing demand. 'The majority of our clients have been adopting the strategy of selling into any strength rather than trying to predict a turn in a bear market,' said Andrew Turnbull, director at Blue Index CFDs. 'After sharp falls in U.S. trading last night due to potential rights issues at Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, we have experienced further uncertainty in the UK, with concerns over the likelihood of a full recession being imminent,' he added. Credit worries had resurfaced on Monday after a Lehman Brothers report said a pending accounting change could force Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to raise a combined $75 billion in capital.But U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Tuesday that the central bank may extend emergency lending for big Wall Street investment banks, easing worries about the financial services sector.Miners were the biggest losers on the FTSE 100. BHP Billiton , Rio Tinto , Anglo American , Xstrata , Vedanta Resources , Lonmin and Eurasian Natural Resources fell between 3.5 and 6.8 percent. 'Traders are clearly far from convinced that the worst is behind us,' Jimmy Yates, dealer at CMC Markets, said in a note. 'And with the cautionary note over the health of businesses that was sounded by the British Chamber of Commerce, any hesitation to go on buying off the lows is hardly a surprise.' LONDON (Reuters) - The top share index closed 1.3 percent lower on Tuesday, driven down by sharp falls in heavyweight commodity stocks that tracked crude and metal prices lower, while banks continued to struggle.The commodity-heavy FTSE 100  was down 72.2 points at 5,440.5 after gaining 1.9 percent on Monday. The benchmark index has fallen about 16 percent this year.Mining shares slipped with a decline in key base metals prices, and oil shares fell sharply after crude prices slid nearly 4 percent. BP lost 3.4 percent, Royal Dutch Shell dropped 2.3 percent and gas producer BG Group slipped 4.4 percent.Banks, the sector worst hit by a global credit crisis that has slowed the global economy and led to massive writedowns and capital increases, remained in the doldrums.Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HSBC , HBOS , Lloyds TSB , Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester shed between 1.0 and 2.8 percent.Analysts feared the economy could slide into a recession, with the British Chambers of Commerce saying that unemployment could rise by as much as 300,000 by the end of 2009.Latest economic figures also painted a grim picture for the U.S. economy. Data showed on Tuesday that pending sales of previously-owned U.S. homes plummeted 4.7 percent in May, against economists expectations of a 2.8 percent fall. And bank Barclays unit Firstplus, a provider of homeowner loans, planned to stop lending to new customers next month due to slowing demand. 'The majority of our clients have been adopting the strategy of selling into any strength rather than trying to predict a turn in a bear market,' said Andrew Turnbull, director at Blue Index CFDs. 'After sharp falls in U.S. trading last night due to potential rights issues at Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, we have experienced further uncertainty in the UK, with concerns over the likelihood of a full recession being imminent,' he added. Credit worries had resurfaced on Monday after a Lehman Brothers report said a pending accounting change could force Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to raise a combined $75 billion in capital.But U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said on Tuesday that the central bank may extend emergency lending for big Wall Street investment banks, easing worries about the financial services sector.Miners were the biggest losers on the FTSE 100. BHP Billiton , Rio Tinto , Anglo American , Xstrata , Vedanta Resources , Lonmin and Eurasian Natural Resources fell between 3.5 and 6.8 percent. 'Traders are clearly far from convinced that the worst is behind us,' Jimmy Yates, dealer at CMC Markets, said in a note. 'And with the cautionary note over the health of businesses that was sounded by the British Chamber of Commerce, any hesitation to go on buying off the lows is hardly a surprise.' With pressure growing on regulators and the broader banking sector to avoid a repeat of the damaging collapse of rival lender Northern Rock last year, the sources said six clearing banks had agreed to back Bradford &amp;amp; Bingleys underwriters. B&amp;amp;B was down 19 percent at 34 pence, below its planned rights issue price of 55 pence, after hitting record lows. Marks and Spencer shares bounced from a 7-1/2 year low on speculation the British retailer might become a bid target, although billionaire Philip Green denied market talk he was buying a stake. Shares closed up 6.7 percent.(Additional reporting by Dominic Lau and Michael Taylor; editing by Elaine Hardcastle)
