 (Reuters) - Britain's top share index rose 1.4 percent early on Wednesday, tracking gains in the U.S. and Asian markets, as relatively stronger than expected results and companies' positive outlooks lifted sentiment.By 0749 GMT, the FTSE 100 .FTSE was up 72.4 points at 5,391.6, after ticking up 0.1 percent on Tuesday to snap a three-session losing run.Miners were the best performing sector after Xstrata (XTA.L: Quote, Profile, Research) said it expected 'significant' stronger second-half performance across its portfolio after posting a 1.1 percent fall in first-half mined copper output and a 6.1 percent fall in mined nickel production.Xstrata was up 3.7 percent while BHP Billiton (BLT.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Rio Tinto (RIO.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Anglo American (AAL.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Lonmin (LMI.L: Quote, Profile, Research) Vedanta Resources (VED.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Eurasian Natural Resources (ENRC.L: Quote, Profile, Research) added 1.5 to 4.2 percent.Copper producer Kazakhmys (KAZ.L: Quote, Profile, Research) strengthened 1.8 percent after it said it saw a recovery in second-quarter copper cathode production after weather problems in the previous quarter, but output was still down 1.4 percent year-on-year. 'It's more like relief at the moment,' said Justin Urquhart Stewart, director at Seven Investment Management. 'We just reached the clearing in the woods, but it looks like a very thick forest on the other side.' Banks were among the standout gainers, lifted by a rise in U.S. financials overnight. Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research),  (RBS.L: Quote, Profile, Research), HSBC (HSBA.L: Quote, Profile, Research), HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Standard Chartered (STAN.L: Quote, Profile, Research) were up between 0.3 and 3 percent.Lloyds TSB (LLOY.L: Quote, Profile, Research) shed 4.4 percent after it said first-half profit fell 70 percent from a year ago as it took a 585 million pound hit from its exposure to risky assets and adverse volatility in its insurance arm. [ID:nL0580177]Also in the financial sector, Admiral Group (ADML.L: Quote, Profile, Research) soared 8.5 percent. The UK car insurer said the outlook is 'encouraging', and it was confident it can maintain 'good' ancillary income despite the consumer downturn and expects current growth levels to continue throughout 2008.Aviva (AV.L: Quote, Profile, Research) climbed 5.8 percent after the insurer reported a 12 percent rise in first-half profit and announced a long-awaited deal to reallocate surplus assets held by two with-profit funds. [ID:nL0606051]Peers Prudential (PRU.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Standard Life (SL.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Old Mutual (OML.L: Quote, Profile, Research) strengthened 3.2 to 5.2 percent.RESULTS, OUTLOOK BOOSTNext (NXT.L: Quote, Profile, Research) advanced 2.4 percent despite reporting a 6 percent fall in first-half underlying same-store sales, in line with forecasts, and expecting a similar decline in the second half. [ID:nL0580916]Rexam (REX.L: Quote, Profile, Research), the world's biggest drinks can maker, surged 4.7 percent after it posted a 61 percent leap in first-half profits and said there was no change in its expectations for the second half. [ID:nL0580454]Confectionery giant Cadbury (CBRY.L: Quote, Profile, Research) put on 0.9 percent after posting a 46 percent rise in first-half profits and saying it was confident for 2008 with sales growth seen at the top of its target and margins ahead of the market consensus. [ID:nL9216387]Oil shares also gained, with BP (BP.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Royal Dutch Shell (RDSa.L: Quote, Profile, Research), BG Group (BG.L: Quote, Profile, Research), Tullow Oil (TLW.L: Quote, Profile, Research) and Cairn Energy (CNE.L: Quote, Profile, Research) up 0.9 to 2.1 percent. (Additional reporting by Michael Taylor; Editing by Paul Bolding) 
