 INFLATION rose to its highest levels since the early 1990s today but economists are not tipping an immediate movement on interest rates.The headline consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.5 per cent in the quarter from the March quarter, taking the annual pace of inflation to 4.5 per cent, the Reserve Bank of Australia said today.The market had expected a quarterly increase of 1.2 per cent and an annual rise of 4.3 per cent. A string of economic data and private-sector surveys show the Australian economy is slowing amid official rates at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent for four months. Retail banks have also raised their mortgage rates independent of any official move. Core inflation, which strips out volatile items and is the RBA's preferred measure, rose 1.1 per cent on the quarter and jumped 4.4 per cent on the year. The core results were in line with market expectations. Despite annual inflation being well above the Reserve Banks 2-3 per cent target range, analysts expect official interest rates to remain on hold next month. Australia's trimmed mean consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.2 per cent in the June quarter, for an annual growth rate of 4.3 per cent, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said today. The Reserve Bank considers the average of the weighted median CPI, which rose 1.0 per cent in the June quarter, with an annual rise of 4.5 per cent, when determining interest rates. The most significant price rises were for deposit and loan facilities (+9.5 per cent), automotive fuel (+8.7 per cent), rents (+2.2 per cent), hospital and medical services (+4.0 per cent), house purchase (+1.0 per cent), furniture (+3.1 per cent), and spirits (+6.1per cent). However, the cost of other financial services (2.9 per cent), fruit (7.4 per cent), vegetables (6.5 per cent), domestic holiday travel and accommodation (2.0 per cent) and electricity (1.4 per cent) offset those increases.Market economists had expected the average of the two measures to rise by 1.1 per cent in the June quarter for an annual rate of 4.4 per cent. The headline CPI rose 1.5 per cent in the June quarter, for an annual rate of 4.5 per cent. The Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens said last week that consumer inflation might rise further before it started to come down. Wages growth remained contained and demand was moderating, said Mr Stevens, adding that the chances of keeping inflation low over the medium term were good. On the information available at present, we still expect inflation to fall back to 3 per cent by mid 2010, and to continue declining gradually thereafter, Mr Stevens said. 
