 HOME lending growth has suffered its biggest decline since the 1991 recession while inflation continues to soar, confronting the Reserve Bank with the dilemma of a slowing economy and simultaneously rising prices as it meets today to set interest rates.The slump in home loan growth led a general slowdown in credit, with increases in total borrowing at a three-year low and personal loans growing at their slowest pace in six years. Economists predict the Reserve Bank will keep the official cash rate steady at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent today but are divided about whether borrowers can expect further rate pain over the next six months. Some expressed concerns that the higher inflationary expectations would feed into wage claims, creating the risk of a wage-price spiral. Soaring petrol prices and rising rents caused by a tight housing market are feeding inflationary expectations. Oil has sparked a second round of financial turmoil after the international credit crunch sparked by the US sub-prime mortgage crisis. It is expected to create further turbulence in coming weeks after the international crude oil price hit a record $US142 a barrel yesterday - a move likely to drive Australian petrol prices to $1.70 a litre within weeks. After a week of international turmoil, the Australian share market yesterday finished the financial year with a fall of 0.4per cent, capping the worst financial year for the Australian stock market since 1981-82. For the financial year ending June 30, the S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 lost almost 17 per cent, carving more than $400 billion off investors' wealth. The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute monthly inflation gauge for June, released yesterday, rose 4.8 per cent in the 12 months to June, the biggest annual increase in the 5 1/2-year history of the series. Inflation, according to the series, has been at or above 4 per cent for the past five months - and above the Reserve Bank's 2-3 per cent comfort band since September. Nevertheless, ABN Amro chief economist Kieran Davies said it was possible the Reserve Bank had come to the end of its interest rate rises. 'The news on inflation hasn't been good, particularly with oil prices continuing to climb, but the credit figures show borrowing is responding to higher rates,' Mr Davies said. 'I think the very abrupt slowdown in borrowing would make the RBA more comfortable with waiting it out at this point.' However, he said some lenders might raise rates even without movement from the RBA, citing funding cost pressures. ANZ deputy chief economist Tony Pearson said the central bank had tough decisions ahead. 'It's not a clear-cut case for the Reserve Bank,' he said. 'The danger is that although growth appears to be slowing in the economy, people may well want to embody higher food and fuel prices in their wage claims. If that happens, you start to get into a wage-price spiral, which would be anathema to the (Reserve) bank. 'So we believe there's still a significant risk that the Reserve Bank, putting all that together, will raise rates again.' Mr Pearson said the RBA was unlikely to raise rates today, but might do so next month, after official inflation figures for the June quarter were released. 'The other thing to remember, is that although we've seen a slowing in the first half of the year, we're going to get some pretty solid tax cuts from July 1,' he said. 'So you may well find that you get a lift in retail spending and consumer confidence.' Reserve Bank figures released yesterday revealed that housing credit grew by 10.6 per cent in the year to May, the slowest annual rate since August 1991, when home loan take-up grew by 10.3per cent. Home borrowing levels, which rose by 0.6 per cent in May, dropped for the third month in arow. CommSec equities economist Savanth Sebastian said rising living costs, decade-high interest rates and dwindling share market returns were turning consumers off borrowing. 'We believe there are certainly no rate cuts coming, but if there is a rate hike it would have to be very close to the end of the year,' he said. Household budgets have been hit hard at the petrol pump in the past year, with the price of fuel up by 25 per cent. And low vacancy rates have put the squeeze on renters, who have had to endure a 14 per cent increase in rents. The two categories contributed 1.8 percentage points to the yearly 4.8 per cent increase in inflation, the TD Securities survey revealed. TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson said it was little surprise inflation remained high in June, given the 'extreme jump' in petrol prices. Additional reporting: Dow Jones, AAP
