 The Australian dollar soared to a fresh 25-year highs against the US dollar after minutes from the country's central bank July policy meeting showed it remained concerned about stubbornly high inflation. The minutes showed that while the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) was growing confident policy was tight enough to restrain inflation in the future, there was enough uncertainty to keep rates at 12-year highs for some time to come. In late trade, the currency was at $0.9748/53 against the US dollar, up from $0.9684/89 late here on Monday. It struck a 25-year high of $0.9758 as the US dollar was bogged down by worries about the health of the financial sector despite a rescue package for the two top US mortgage finance companies. 'The Aussie has stretched to a new post-float high in the wake of these minutes and fresh downward pressure on the U.S. dollar,' said Besa Deda, senior currency strategist at St George. 'Financial markets were possibly looking for minutes that were more dovish on inflation. These minutes reiterated previous RBA commentary that they expect inflation to be high in the short term. The next key level between here and parity for the Australian dollar may be $0.9840.' All eyes are now on Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke who delivers his semi-annual monetary policy testimony to the senate later in the day and his comments will watched for clues on the interest rate outlook. Financial markets have slashed the chances of a rate hike in the US on the back of the renewed troubles in the financial sector which has seen one bank collapse and the government coming to the rescue of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac . The currency traded just below a three-week high against the low-yielding yen despite the financial market jitters, suggesting investors were growing more confident about leveraged carry trades. Japan's central bank on Tuesday kept rates unchanged and cut economic growth forecasts, helping the Australian dollar to maintain its favourable rate differentials. It also held firm near seven-year highs against the New Zealand dollar after data there showed a surge in inflation for the second quarter, but failed to douse speculation of a rate cut as early as this month. Australian bond futures were supported by safe-haven flows with investors staying away from equity markets, especially bank stocks which took a further beating on global credit concerns. The weakness in stocks and the tightening global liquidity conditions have in turn lessened the risk that the RBA will have to hike again, even if coming inflation data are very high. Three-year Australian bond futures rose 0.090 points to 93.525, while the 10-year bond contract added 0.100 points to 93.70. 
