      Despite yesterday&amp;#039;s win, and West Ham&amp;#039;s best start to the Premier League for 9 years...    Quote - News of the World   SLAVEN BILIC is ready to quit Croatia and take over at West Ham.  Upton Park boss Alan Curbishley earned himself a temporary stay of execution as his side thumped Blackburn 4-1 on Saturday.  But despite making it two wins from their first three games  their best Premier League start for nine years  time is running out for Curbishley.  West Ham are convinced that Bilic, 39, would be prepared to leave Croatia after their World Cup 2012 qualifying clash with England in 10 days.  West Hams win over Blackburn lifted the intense pressure Curbishley has been under.  Curbishley and the club have clashed in recent weeks over transfer policy, especially the 8million sale of Anton Ferdinand to Sunderland.  Sport Of The World understands there is also growing concern among board members about Curbishleys tactics, man-management and lack of knowledge in the overseas transfer market.  The boards view is compounded by the growing discontent amongst Hammers fans who have failed to take to Curbishley.  Bilic is the No 1 candidate to replace him.  Although he played for the Hammers for just over a year in the mid-nineties, his passionate style earned him cult status and his charismatic leadership of Croatia has brought him to the attention of several clubs.  Bilic, who plotted Englands downfall in the Euro 2008 qualifiers and has a get- out clause in his contract, will find it hard to resist the lure of a Premier League job. He currently earns just over 100,000 a year but could command between 1.5m- 2m.  Meanwhile, Curbs is still chasing 5m- rated midfielder Stephen Appiah from Fenerbahce and trying to tie up a loan deal with Sweden striker Henrik Larsson.    However the BBC say...    Quote - BBC Sport   Everton have made a 500,000 bid to bring former Celtic and Manchester United striker Henrik Larsson, 36, to Goodison Park. (Sunday Mirror)  But West Ham have emerged as favourites to sign the Swedish striker for 1m. (News of the World).                             
