A package of radical measures to get British banks lending more is due to be hammered out at the weekend in an attempt to prevent the recession souring into an even more serious downturn.   Amid a growing sense of urgency, ministers are working on proposals paving the way for fresh capital injections into banks, for relaxation of rules on balance-sheet strength and for government guarantees of toxic assets on bank balance sheets.   Treasury and Bank of England officials are bracing themselves for a hectic weekend as Alistair Darling tries to finalise measures in time for an announcement early next week.   The latest push came as bank shares slumped to lows not seen since the 1980s and as a warning was given by Capital Economics that UK banks would be forced to cut lending to householders and businesses by 400 billion in the next few years unless action was taken.   A reduction of that size, equivalent to 30 per cent of total national output, would be cataclysmic.   Vicky Redwood, of Capital Economics, said: It would put us into Depression territory. Gordon Brown yesterday promised action to reopen frozen financial markets and confirmed that measures to deal with the toxic assets of banks are being urgently considered.   With industry leaders such as Richard Lambert, the Director-General of the CBI, demanding ambitious efforts to restart lending to business, some ministers hope that a package could be ready for publication as early as Monday before Barack Obama's inauguration the next day as US President.   Banking chiefs are likely to be consulted over the weekend, as they were when the banks were recapitalised in October.   Credit Suisse, which is advising the Treasury on the measures, has been shuttling between UK bank chiefs in an attempt to agree the rough outline of a deal.   The Treasury and Downing Street are cautious over whether a deal can be finalised by Monday, and sources said that an announcement later next week looked more likely at this stage.   A source close to the negotiations told The Times that Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of England, is pushing for a swift agreement, while Mr Darling is insisting that maximium care be taken before committing the taxpayer to risks. The source said: It's not about saving the banks this time, it's about saving the economy. According to another source close to the negotiations, the Government could inject fresh cash into some banks in return for preference shares.   However, the banks would pay a much lower interest rate on the shares than the penal 12 per cent that was agreed in the last 37 billion bailout.   Ministers are also considering relaxing capital rules, to let banks temporarily run down their capital cushions.   A third element would be the ringfencing of toxic assets on bank balance sheets, which would then be partly guaranteed by the Government.   Ultimately this could be the precursor to the creation of a state-owned fund that would buy the assets outright from banks, the bad bank option. Mr Darling is also expected to act to break the stalemate in wholesale financial markets by offering guarantees worth tens of billions of pounds to help companies raise money.   Capital Economics said that state decrees forcing banks to lend or full-scale nationalisation might be the only solution.   British banks were set to lose 85 billion over the next three years, completely wiping out the 50 billion of fresh capital raised as part of the October bailout.   Bank shares fell yesterday on fear of further capital-raisings and ahead of the expiry of the short-selling ban at midnight last night.   Wall Street jitters over fresh losses in Citigroup, which reports fourth-quarter figures today, and Bank of America added to the gloom.   Shares in Royal Bank of Scotland fell by 4 per cent to 39.9p as it emerged that Sir Philip Hampton, the chairman of J Sainsbury, was being lined up to succeed Sir Tom McKillop as chairman.   Sir Philip would give up his Sainsbury role if he accepted the job. 
