Very smart to buy C right now! The bank could get a huge influx $10 Billion of pre-tax money that it badly needs. The news of the merger scared people yesterday, but it could be very good: NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of Citigroup Inc. (C) reversed earlier declines, trading up 4.1% recently, as the bank confirmed it's in discussions with Morgan Stanley (MS) over its retail brokerage unit. After falling 17% in Monday's trading session, the banking giant appeared headed toward another steep slide Tuesday, falling as much as 9% premarket, as investors remained nervous about potential fourth-quarter losses and the uncertainty over the plan for Smith Barney. But after Citi said in a release Tuesday that it was discussing a deal with Morgan Stanley, shares began to recover, and were recently trading up 4.1%, or 22 cents, to $5.82. The bank said it couldn't guarantee any agreement and didn't give any specifics on the deal, which could create the largest broker in the world. Sandler O'Neill analyst Jeff Harte said in a Tuesday morning note that the sell-off was overdone and while he remained unsure of the Smith Barney deal, the upsides could be important to Citi. "While ambiguity abounds, with unconfirmed transaction details and lacking Smith Barney disclosures, we estimate that C could record a pretax gain of nearly $10 billion," Harte said, noting that the gain would be combined with an estimated $64 billion in asset reductions and could "give a much needed boost to [Citi's] common equity levels." CNBC reported Tuesday that the deal will be announced after the close Tuesday, the latest stage of the dozens of reports from media outlets that have appeared since late Friday. The Wall Street Journal previously reported the deal would call for Morgan Stanley to pay Citigroup about $2.5 billion to bring its ownership stake in the combined brokerage to 51%. The uncertainty over who would benefit most from the deal, however, seemed to plague shares, at least earlier in the week. "The sentiment towards these names is so darn pessimistic that you aren't going to get anybody to commit to anything before the numbers come out," said one trader at a midsized Wall Street firm earlier Tuesday. "If they are giving away one of their prime assets to raise capital, it shows they just must not have a handle on the rest of the books." Expectations that Citi also will report earnings next Thursday that are much worse than previously expected also weighed on the shares as some analysts said they now predict billions of more dollars in losses. "It is now believed that Citigroup will lose $10 billion or $1.30 per share," Dick Bove of Ladenburg Thalmann wrote Tuesday morning. "The consensus number just a few days ago was a loss of [74 cents] per share." Other bank stocks also recovered from much of earlier declines Tuesday that had been driven by spreading fear of widening losses. Regional banks Sovereign Bancorp Inc. (SOV) and Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB), as well as banking giant Bank of America Corp. (BAC) had all fallen more than 4%, but were recently down 2.9%, 1.8% and 3.7% respectively. Some analysts are now predicting losses for Bank of America and Fifth Third when the two report earnings in the coming weeks. Other recent gainers include City National Corp. (CYN) and Sterling Bancshares Inc. (SBIB), which were up 2.3% and 4% in recent trading, respectively. Both stocks were listed by Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods as regional banks "to own - if you must." The firm said the banks have more cushion against credit losses than peers, are more likely to earn their dividend, and less likely to need to raise capital. -By David Benoit, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2472; david.benoit@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/nae/al?rnd=yl3e0jP09cP315g3He22hA%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 01-13-09 1238ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 12:38 011309
