Banks gird for commercial property collapse By Tim Catts - January 12, 2009 12:01 AM ET Spike in loan defaults could batter balance sheets; Citi, Barclays each sitting on $20 billion in commercial mortgage-related investments Banks had to slash the value of their holdings in residential mortgage-backed securities aggressively last year as the U.S. housing market collapsed and home prices fell. Now, a looming spike in commercial real estate loan defaults could cause even more pain. Though securitization of commercial mortgages all but stopped last year as credit markets tightened and the global economy slipped into a recession, more than $230 billion in bonds backed by the loans were issued in 2007, according to Commercial Mortgage Alert, a publication tracking the industry. As the commercial real estate market withers, banks holding the securities could be forced to take big write-downs, further battering already bruised balance sheets. Some of the biggest financial institutions have huge, potentially troublesome commercial real estate stakes, Standard &amp; Poors data shows. Based on information in their most recent financial reports, Citigroup and Barclays each had more than $20 billion worth of commercial mortgage-related investments. Merrill Lynch, acquired by Bank of America last year, had some $19.7 billion in such investments, according to S&amp;P. The commercial real estate markets increasing weakness could lead to a big jump in the default rate on those securities, Fitch Ratings said in a report last week. Worrisome stuff. Indeed, default rates for securities issued over the past few years, when the real estate market was at its zenith, could increase two-and-a-half times, from 0.6% last year to 1.5% in 2009. Loans originated at market peaks experienced from 2005 through 2007 will face increasing defaults as real estate performance declines during the stressed economic climate of 2009 and beyond, said Fitch Managing Director Eric Rothfeld in a statement. More defaults could lead banks to write down their commercial real estate loan and CMBS holdings. Such a scenario would seem to be a lock. As companies buffeted by the sour economy laid off workers, scaled back or cancelled plans to expand and put off new investments in office space in the second half of last year, rents fell and demand for newly constructed buildings evaporated. Some who borrowed to build or buy commercial real estate may find it hard to pay back that debt now. After several years of strong and often spectacular growth, transaction volume declined precipitously in 2008 and market fundamentals began to weaken as a lack of capital and a lack of confidence forced investors and corporate tenants to the sidelines, NAI Global, a commercial real estate group, reported in its year-end review of the market. Banks worldwide have reported write-downs and credit losses of $741 billion since mid-2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. George.
