       I know there have been a bunch of posts about this slimeball over the past day in regard to that utterly ridiculous office renovation while his firm was imploding, but another thing that caught my eye in this NY Times article is that AFTER the BA offer, Merrill traders started buying mortgage paper again in the belief that things 'bottomed' and apparently lost another FIVE BILLION dollars..  Regards, John   Thain Resigns Amid Losses at Bank of America   Published: January 22, 2009   His Wall Street pedigree seems impeccable. A top job at Goldman Sachs. The chief of the New York Stock Exchange. Finally, the reins of the stock markets thundering herd, Merrill Lynch.  But in less than 15 minutes on Thursday, the charmed career of John A. Thain was derailed.   Three weeks after his foundering brokerage firm was sold to Bank of America for $50 billion in stock, Mr. Thain was pushed out by the banks chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, who is struggling to contain the damage from his banks daring gamble on Merrill Lynch.   Gaping losses at the brokerage firm forced Bank of America to seek a second financial lifeline from Washington last week, leaving Mr. Lewiss bank, the nations largest, facing an uncertain future.  Mr. Lewis, who had pressed ahead with the acquisition at the urging of federal regulators, is now fighting to right his troubled empire and safeguard his job.   The tension between the two men had been building since mid-December, when the implications of Merrills latest losses  $15.3 billion during the fourth quarter alone  began to sink in.   But despite the mounting losses, Merrill Lynch rushed to pay annual bonuses to its employees before its deal with Bank of America closed on Jan. 1. Those payments are now under investigation by the attorney general of New York, a person briefed on the investigation said Thursday.   For Mr. Thain, the end came on Thursday in his office at Merrill Lynch, which, according to CNBC, he lavishly refurbished last year with an $87,000 rug and a $68,000 credenza. Mr. Lewis had flown to New York from Charlotte, N.C., where Bank of America is based, to deliver the bad news. After a brief conversation, Mr. Thain agreed to depart.   Mr. Thains exit, the latest in a series of prominent departures from Merrill, caps the stunning downfall of a brokerage firm whose name, for many people, is synonymous with Wall Street.   But for Mr. Thain, the development is also deeply personal. For a time, he was seen as the Clark Kent of Wall Street, the mild-mannered executive with a square jaw and glasses who had kept Mother Merrill from following Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy. Some even mentioned him as a possible successor to Mr. Lewis.  Then a different picture began to emerge. Mr. Thain, who is 53, drew criticism from both outside and inside Merrill Lynch for suggesting in October that he be paid a large annual bonus, said by individuals briefed on the matter to be $30 million to $40 million. In December, the individuals said, the figure dwindled to $10 million and in the end, he received no bonus at all. He later denied having asked for one.   When Merrill Lynch alerted Bank of America in mid-December that its losses were ballooning, Mr. Lewis did not hear the news from Mr. Thain, who around that time left for a skiing trip at his second home in Vail, Colo.  Recent reports that Mr. Thain had spent $1.2 million to redecorate his office caused Mr. Lewis to further question Mr. Thains judgment, according to a person close to Mr. Lewis.   Another frustration for Mr. Lewis may have been the decision by Mr. Thain to make an earlier-than-usual bonus payout to Merrill employees, just three days before the merger closed, and before Bank of America could do anything to prevent it.  The office of Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, is examining the payouts, which a person inside the office characterized on Thursday as large, secret last-minute bonuses.  Bank of America named Brian T. Moynihan, its general counsel, to succeed Mr. Thain as head of Bank of Americas wealth management and corporate and investment banking divisions.   Mr. Thains departure from Merrill is a turnabout for a man who, not long ago, was hailed as Merrills savior. He took the reins of Merrill Lynch in late 2007, after the ouster of E. Stanley ONeal, who had presided over the firms disastrous push into mortgage investments.  But Merrills seemingly intractable losses tried even Mr. Thain, who has a reputation for keeping his cool. Last summer, fuming over another grim quarter for the firm, he halted a meeting with his chief financial officer and hurled a chair against the wall, shattering a nearby glass panel, according to people briefed on the meeting.   To purge Merrill of its toxic assets, Mr. Thain ended up selling billions of dollars of soured investments for pennies on the dollar. He initially resisted suggestions from some board members that he sell the crippled brokerage firm, but reached out to Bank of America in September as the collapse of Lehman threatened to engulf Merrill.  At a news conference announcing the merger, Mr. Lewis praised Mr. Thain. Mr. Lewis said Mr. Thains new role had not been decided, adding: Thats a credit to John. It usually does not happen that way. And it was never about him, it was always about the deal.  But after Merrill appeared to be safely in Bank of Americas arms, Merrills traders began buying risky mortgage assets, thinking that the market had bottomed out, according to two people familiar with the firms trading. Merrill also began to run up losses on equity derivatives and other instruments, they said.  By the end of 2008, Merrill had lost an additional $5 billion in the markets, marking the first time since Mr. Thains arrival that the firms losses had moved beyond the mortgage investments that predated his tenure.   Last week, Mr. Thain declined through a spokeswoman to comment on whether he had misrepresented Merrills risks at the time of the merger. On Thursday, a spokeswoman said he did not wish to discuss his departure.   Given the losses at Merrill, the government injected an additional $20 billion into Bank of America last week and agreed to backstop losses on about $90 billion of worrisome assets on Merrills books. The government will also help cover losses on about $30 billion in assets at Bank of America, which is bracing for more credit card and auto loan defaults.  Winthrop H. Smith Jr., a former executive whose father was a founding partner of Merrill Lynch, said Mr. Thain was dealt a bad hand and played it as best he could.   It is so easy to be a back-seat driver and second-guess, and unless you walk in the shoes of the person at the time you dont really know, Mr. Smith said.  Now it is up to Mr. Lewis to prove the vocal critics of the merger wrong. Bank of America is struggling with mounting consumer credit losses, and the challenges of digesting Merrill Lynch and Countrywide, the troubled mortgage lender Bank of America acquired last year.  
