JPMorgan Chase posts surprise profit Analysts expected the bank to break even. But earnings fell sharply from a year ago, while CEO Jamie Dimon warns of "very difficult business climate." By David Ellis, CNNMoney.com staff writer Last Updated: January 15, 2009: 7:21 AM ET JPMorgan Chase Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon called the bank's 76% plunge in profits "very disappointing." What's next for Citi? More Videos NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- JPMorgan Chase reported a profit for the quarter Thursday, even as the company suffered a hit in its investment banking business and was forced to set aside a chunk of cash for looming loan losses. The New York City-based bank said net income fell 76% to $702 million, or 7 cents a share during the fourth quarter, from $2.97 billion, or 86 cents a share, during the same period a year ago. The results beat expectations, however, as analysts were forecasting that the company would break even for the quarter, according to Thomson Reuters. Helping offset the results was a one-time gain of $1.3 billion, related to its purchase of the failed savings and loan Washington Mutual last year. Excluding this, JPMorgan Chase said it would have reported a loss of 28 cents per share during the quarter. Revenue fell 1% to $17.2 billion, missing analysts' expectations of $18.8 billion. Investors appeared to be encouraged by the news. JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500) shares rose 1% in pre-market trading Thursday. Nonetheless, JPMorgan Chase chief executive officer Jamie Dimon, who had warned about the company's lackluster performance weeks in advance, called the results "very disappointing." He faulted the company's investment banking business, which suffered a net loss of $2.4 billion during the quarter. Also contributing to the profit decline was a sharp increase in the company's loan loss reserves, which climbed by $4.1 billion during the quarter. "JPMorgan Chase's management team is working diligently to manage through this very difficult business climate, and to position the franchise to benefit when the economy eventually recovers," he said in a statement. Dimon also offered a cautious tone for 2009. "If the economic environment deteriorates further, which is a distinct possibility, it is reasonable to expect additional negative impact on our market-related businesses, continued higher loan losses and increases to our credit reserves," he said. JPMorgan Chase is the first among the nation's biggest banks to report fourth-quarter numbers. Citigroup (C, Fortune 500) is widely expected to report a sizable loss when it releases its results on Friday. There are reports that Citi will also unveil a major restructuring plan Friday. Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500) is expected to post a profit when it delivers its results next week, but there are growing concerns about how BofA will deal with losses at its recently acquired Merrill Lynch unit. According to a Wall Street Journal report, the government is said to be working in finalizing a deal to give the bank more financial assistance to help it digest the Merrill deal.
