Bank of America gets $138bn lifeline By Sundeep Tucker in Hong Kong Published: January 15 2009 23:44   Last updated: January 16 2009 15:59 Bank of America will on Friday receive $20bn in fresh capital from the US government and a guarantee on most of a further $118bn of potential losses on toxic assets. The emergency bail-out will help to cushion the blow from a deteriorating balance sheet at Merrill Lynch, the brokerage BofA acquired earlier this month. The capital injection comes the day after US lawmakers voted to release a second tranche of funding under the $700bn troubled asset relief programme (Tarp), and just hours before BofA reported a fourth-quarter loss of $2.39bn  its first loss since 1991. Merrill Lynch lost a record $15.31bn in the quarter, though its results are not included in BofAs figures. The results came as rival Citigroup confirmed it would break itself up by separating higher-risk US consumer finance and securities businesses from its global commercial banking operations in an attempt to ensure its survival. The bank reported a fourth-quarter loss of $8.29bn. The BofA rescue package is on top of the $25bn the bank received from Tarp funds last October, and underscores the depth of the financial difficulties affecting the worlds leading banks. A US housing crisis and credit-led recession has thrown the balance sheets of its top financial institutions in turmoil. Under the terms of the deal BofA will receive $20bn in exchange for preferred stock paying a dividend of 8 per cent. BofA will absorb the first $10bn loss on a pool of $118bn of toxic assets and the Treasury and FDIC the next $10bn. Ninety per cent of losses beyond that will be absorbed through a loan from the Federal Reserve. The assets are largely mortgage-related securities inherited from Merrill Lynch. In return for the financial assistance, BofA has agreed to cut its dividend to 1 cent a share from 32 cents and cap executive pay. The guarantee on toxic assets mirrors the $300bn backstop provided by the US government last November to Citigroup, which is also scheduled to report its fourth quarter earnings on Friday. Asian stock markets rallied on the news from Washington, with Japans Nikkei average climbing 3.1 per cent. European bank shares were also lifted. Shares in BofA itself were 1.1 per cent lower to $8.23 in early Wall Street trading. The intensified government support for banks came after a day of market turbulence on both sides of the Atlantic on Thursday that saw Ireland nationalise its third-biggest lender while BofA shares fell 18 per cent and Citigroup dropped 15 per cent. The market turmoil was fed by rumours that a big US bank such as Citi could be nationalised. Sheila Bair, head of the FDIC, played down such speculation, telling reporters: Id be very surprised if that happened. The Senate earlier voted 52-42 to approve the second half of emergency Tarp funds following intensive lobbying on Capitol Hill by officials from Barack Obamas transition team. Mr Obama, who had threatened to veto the bill if the vote went the other way, promised Democratic waverers that he would use up to $100bn of the second tranche in a sweeping effort to help struggling homeowners. We will implement smart, aggressive policies to reduce the number of preventable foreclosures, said Lawrence Summers, who will head Mr Obamas National Economic Council, in a letter to lawmakers on Thursday. Lawmakers from both parties praised Mr Obama for having consulted them extensively and given undertakings that disbursement of Tarp II would be more transparent and accountable than the first half. Ireland nationalised Anglo Irish Bank after the share price of the countrys third-largest lender had collapsed in recent days amid reports of large-scale withdrawals. Additional reporting by Neil Dennis in London, John Murray-Brown in Dublin and Francesco Guerrera in New York. Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2009
