Deal Journal brings you two full comments from a representative for former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson as a response to information given regulators by Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, including testimony by Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis.  The WSJ&#8217;s Liz Rappaport first revealed that Lewis testified that he was pressured by Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to avoid disclosing the government&#8217;s bargain to inject money into Bank of America in return for following through on the acquisition of Merrill Lynch. The issue is what Paulson said and when he said it, and why.  Paulson told Cuomo&#8217;s office that he made the threat to remove Bank of Americas management and board at the request of Mr. Bernanke, according to Cuomo&#8217;s letter. Our colleagues also reported in February that a Federal Reserve official called Lewis, threatening to remove Bank of America&#8217;s management at least three days before Paulson gave the same warning. The Fed, as BofA&#8217;s primary regulator, actually did have the authority to remove management.  Paulson initially asserted to Cuomo&#8217;s investigators that he couldn&#8217;t answer questions about the threat to Mr. Lewis (of losing his job and his boards jobs) because he was speaking on behalf of Bernanke and the Fed had asserted privilege over those conversations, says a person present at the interview. He later answered.  This privilege is something the Fed evokes to protect confidential information that banks provide to their regulator.  Cuomo&#8217;s letter stated in part: In an interview with this Office, Secretary Paulson largely corroborated Lewis&#8217;s account. On the issue of terminating management and the Board, Secretary Paulson indicated that he told Lewis that if Bank of America were to back out of the Merrill Lynch deal, the government either could or would remove the Board and management. Secretary Paulson told Lewis a series of concerns, including that Bank of America&#8217;s invocation of the MAC would create systemic risk and that Bank of America did not have a legal basis to invoke the MAC (though Secretary Paulson&#8217;s basis for the opinion was entirely based on what he was told by Federal Reserve officials). Paulson provided two responses, which contrasted slightly with each other. The first said:  Their discussions centered on the Fed lawyers&#8217; opinion that the merger contract was binding, and the US Treasury&#8217;s commitment to ensuring that no systemically important financial institution would be allowed to fail. Secretary Paulsons words were his own. Chairman Bernanke did not instruct him to indicate any specific action the Fed might take. By referring to the Feds supervisory powers, Paulson intended to deliver a strong message reinforcing the view that had been consistently expressed by the Fed, as Bank of Americas regulator, and shared by the Treasury that it would be unthinkable that Bank of America take this action for which there was no reasonable legal basis and which would show a lack of judgment.  In a separate conversation, Secretary Paulson said he could not provide a letter because there was not yet a specific action plan and he believed that Treasury releasing a vague letter reiterating Treasury&#8217;s public commitment to prevent systemically important institutions from failing would not help Bank of America but would instead rattle markets by creating more questions than it answered. Questions of BofAs disclosures were left up to Bank of America. The second statement followed a couple of hours later:  To clarify the earlier statement, Secretary Paulson does not take exception with the Attorney General&#8217;s characterization of his conversation with Ken Lewis. His prediction of what could happen to Lewis and the Board was his language, but based on what he knew to be the Fed&#8217;s strong opposition to Bank of America attempting to renounce the deal.        
