And the biggest nightmare Tuesday was State Street, which reported a 71% fall in fourth-quarter earnings to $65m, and said unrealised losses on investments had risen to $6.3bn at at 31st December (increasing by some $3bn in Q4). As fears grow that the firm may be required to raise additional capital, the firm's stock took a hammering, losing over 59% of its value.   Bank of New York Mellon also reported fourth-quarter earnings Tuesday, which fell 88% to $61m. The firm's stock fell 17.25% Tuesday.  MarketWatch reports that, according to Friedman, Billings, Ramsey analyst Paul Miller, Bank of America may need more than $80bn in new common equity capital to support the high level of assets on its balance sheet. The firm's stock closed down 29% at $5.10 Tuesday, hitting its lowest level since 1990.  And as we hear conflicting rumors about whether Citi will keep or sell Japanese brokerage firm Nikko Cordial Securities, it is well to remember that Citi purchased the Japanese firm in a $18bn deal a couple of years back. Citi's stock fell another 20% Tuesday to $2.80-a-share, giving the US company a market cap of just $15.26bn. Citi has also declared a 1 cent per share dividend on its common stock, the maximum permissible under the terms of the US government bailout.  Bloomberg reports that Deutsche Bank has had to come out and deny press reports that it has suffered losses in its US hedge funds CQ Capital and Distressed Opportunities. The bank says that it has no capital tied up in the funds, which are for institutional asset management clients.  And BNP Paribas's stock continues to be under pressure Wednesday, after falling to a decade low Tuesday on fears that it, too, may have to raise additional capital.  The Wall Street Journal reports that SocGen chairman Daniel Bouton and CEO Frederic Oudea, and Credit Agricole CEO Georges Pauget have all confirmed that they will not be taking bonuses for their work in 2008.  Reuters reports that TD Securities has laid off around 70 staff in its Australian unit, and will close its Tokyo office, with the loss of 17 jobs. The news agency also reports that hedge fund Magnetar Capital has closed its London-based risk arbitrage desk, with the loss of 7 jobs.  Sad to report, too, the death last weekend of Edmund de Rothschild, the former chairman of NM Rothschild. He was 93.  Finally, the only bit of good news we could find this Wednesday. French bank SocGen has come out and said that its expects to post a $1.54bn 2008 full-year profit, and that its investment banking unit will probably break-even in the fourth-quarter.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend.
