(Editor's Note: The following predictions were solicited from the staff and editors of other publications across SourceMedia. In addition to publishing Health Data Management, SourceMedia produces a wide array of financial and business publications.)   The year just passed has been one of the most remarkable on record for the financial services industry. Indeed, for many market participants, the changes witnessed over the previous 12 months were once thought inconceivable. Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, two iconic names on Wall Street, are no more. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were seized by the US government, Merrill Lynch was absorbed by Bank of America, and Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are now bank holding companies. The housing industry has imploded, politicians and regulators are chomping at the bit to reverse how Wall Street does business, and investors are downright spooked.   But we already know all that.   Less clear is how these dramatic shifts on Wall Street and in Corporate America will impact businesses and investors this year. With that in mind, we offer the following prognostications. Some will prove accurate, others may not, but given where we are in the current business cycle, they're all worth considering.   IT executives will be watching their budgets -- especially when it comes to nonessential hardware purchases, such as PC upgrades --- but they will spend on technologies and services that make their organizations more efficient. This includes server virtualization products, on-demand (hosted) software services, green IT initiatives, and data management improvement efforts -- including master data management, predictive analytics and business intelligence projects. Other technologies that will be increasingly deployed in 2009: Web services, enterprise mash-ups, unified communications, and social networks. IT managers, however, will continue their struggle to digest and control employee usage of social networking and other Web 2.0 tools. (DM Review)   In a year that saw nearly every aspect of the capital markets turned upside down, perhaps no industry was more impacted than this one. Besides the crumbling of household names on Wall Street, events conspired against the remaining firms in a way that will leave those institutions less able to take on risk. At the same time they'll find themselves more beholden to regulators. Earnings derived from investment banking operations will be down dramatically this year, not only in some of the more exotic sides of the business but in traditional deal-making and stock issuance, too. While the bulge-bracket banking universe has shrunk, Wall Street is beginning to see consolidation among middle-market firms, a trend that is likely to continue. (Investment Dealers' Digest)   Mergers and Acquisitions  The market for M&amp;A will likely remain stalled in 2009, as both acquirers and targets sit on their hands in what has become an uncertain market. As the economic picture dims, neither side can find any comfort in forecasts, which makes modeling deals extremely difficult in all but a few sectors. Industries such as retail, publishing, energy, manufacturing and homebuilding could be marked by distressed activity, while a few select areas, such as healthcare, could experience more traditional M&amp;A interest from both strategic acquirers and private equity buyers. Alongside the uncertainty facing dealmakers is a financing market that remains essentially shut down. Deal pros, by and large, don't anticipate the debt markets will begin to show signs of life until there's more clarity about the economy. (Mergers &amp; Acquisitions)   Private equity firms are expected to be largely focused on restructuring their own portfolio companies because of the recession and crippled debt markets. Despite lower valuation multiples that create acquisition opportunities, the lack of credit coupled with continued high seller expectations will reduce the number of leveraged buyouts. Transactions will get done, especially involving smaller companies and corporate business units, but industry observers expect that financial sponsors will compensate by structuring transactions that aren't dependent on debt, as well as look towards investing in distressed debt, restructuring and bankruptcy acquisition opportunities. In addition, fundraising activity will slow because institutional investors have less capital to allocate towards the alternative investment asset class. Corporate acquirers and sovereign wealth funds, meanwhile, will gain the upper hand in the M&amp;A business. Cross-border acquisitions will draw interest from private equity firms, but investments in emerging market countries will be more muted next year as even well-developed emerging market countries grapple with the fallout from the US recession. The theme throughout next year will be a flight to safety. (Investment Dealers' Digest) 
