After little more than a decade, the model of the modern financial superpower is collapsing.  As Citigroup considers a plan to break itself apart, it is essentially seeking to unwind the epochal 1998 deal that gave it life. And it means the unwinding of the dream of Sanford Weill to create a one-stop financial shop, which encompassed virtually every kind of banking and brokerage service under the sun.  Other banking giants still roam the U.S. financial landscape, including JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and the combined Wells Fargo-Wachovia. But none has been so closely identified with the universal banking model, one that analysts and investors seem increasingly willing to consign to the trash heap of history.  It is often cliche to describe any particular deal as a watershed, as one that rewrote the rules of the game. But what was announced on April 6, 1998, was just that: the merging of Citicorp, the largest U.S. bank, with Travelers, a panoply of financial services that spanned from insurance to brokerage to investment banking.  It also returned Weill - a serial deal maker who climbed up the ladder at American Express, only to start over again with a small financial company called Commercial Credit - to the forefront of U.S. finance.  In the process, the birth of Citigroup tore down a 64-year-old tenet of American finance, the separation of commercial and investment banking as defined by the Glass-Steagall Act. After the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, banks in the United States could offer virtually any type of financial service imaginable.  And so Weill and his brief co-chief executive at Citigroup, John Reed, combined Citicorp, a bedrock of commercial and consumer banking, with Travelers, which Weill built out of parts as disparate as the Travelers and Primerica insurance companies, the Smith Barney brokerage and the Salomon Brothers investment bank.  Yet within a few years after Citigroup was born, the financial model it embodied proved too ambitious. In 2002, Citi spun off Travelers' property and casualty insurance business, which was weighing on its parent's stock price.  The rest of the story is well known at this point, as the lashing together a jumble of disparate businesses was a task too difficult for three chief executives: Weill, his successor Charles Prince 3rd and now Vikram Pandit. And it has now tarnished the reputation of a once-revered Treasury secretary, Robert Rubin.  While Citigroup overcame legal challenges raised by the likes of Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general who would go on to become governor, it fell prey to the capricious whims of the mortgage markets it dove into to reap huge profits.  It is only after tens of billions of dollars in losses and several government interventions that Citigroup is finally calling it quits on the dream of the universal bank.  Other financial giants that arose after Weill's colossus, like JPMorgan under William Harrison 3rd and Jamie Dimon and Bank of America under Kenneth Lewis, remain. But both through their actions and through internal discussions, Citigroup executives have made it clear that they consider only one to truly work.  Unlike Citigroup, which inherited Smith Barney from Travelers, and Bank of America, which sealed its takeover of Merrill Lynch weeks ago, JPMorgan has not owned a brokerage. Nor has the company shown particular interest in seeking one, despite having struck deals for the investment bank Bear Stearns and the savings and loan Washington Mutual at fire-sale prices. While JPMorgan has survived the financial turmoil of 2007 and 2008 better than most, analysts and industry insiders expect the company to report weak earnings on Thursday, if not a loss.  Lewis of Bank of America has made it clear that he is holding firm to the concept of the universal bank. By acquiring Merrill, he gained what Bank of America has long lacked: a top-flight investment banking franchise and what until this week has been the world's largest army of brokers.  At least both companies - and especially JPMorgan - have been hailed for their management, something that has never been said of Citigroup. Dimon and his team, in particular, have won accolades for steering through the minefield of subprime mortgages. Time will tell whether his company can weather the cavalcade of other debt problems.  But for now, one thing is clear: The markets have finally closed over the fragments of the House of Weill.  
