Escalating credit costs forced Bank of America Corp. to report a $2.39 billion fourth-quarter loss Friday, hours after it convinced the federal government it needed a multibillion-dollar lifeline to survive the absorption of Merrill Lynch's hefty losses.  Bank of America also attributed the loss to write-downs and trading losses in the company's capital markets business but said most of its core units remained in the black. Retail and wealth-management segments posted profit, and the bank saw narrower losses in its investment bank during the quarter. The results don't reflect the $15.31 billion loss Merrill Lynch suffered.  Bank of America's fortunes are tied to Orange, Sullivan and Ulster counties, where the giant operates 29 branches and has $726 million in deposits. Some 8.4 percent of all deposits in the three counties are held at Bank of America, behind only TD Bank and KeyBank.  After a marathon negotiating session, the Bush administration agreed early Friday to give Bank of America an additional $20 billion worth of fresh capital to help it stomach the losses at Merrill Lynch, which the company acquired Jan. 1. The funds are in addition to $25 billion in TARP rescue funds Bank of America has already received.  The new infusion means Bank of America has now taken $45 billion of government aid, the same amount as Citigroup Inc. In connection with the package, Bank of America slashed its quarterly dividend to a penny from 32 cents, agreed to further limit executive pay and work more intensively to modify the mortgages of distressed homeowners.  The government's agreement with Bank of America mentions 'enhanced executive compensation restrictions' but doesn't elaborate. However, Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., who heads the House Financial Services Committee, last week issued an outline of his proposal to attach strings to spending the rest of the bailout money. It would slap strict limits on executive compensation including a ban on any bonuses for the 25 highest paid executives.  Lawrence H. Summers, a top aide to Obama, sent a letter to House and Senate leaders Thursday detailing plans for the remaining $350 billion in bailout funds, including a requirement that 'executive compensation above a specified threshold amount be paid in restricted stock or similar form that cannot be liquidated or sold until the government has been repaid.'
