The clamour for a sweeping bailout of the UK banking industry intensified last night after two Wall Street powerhouses plunged deeper in the mire.  Stricken giants Citigroup and Merrill Lynch ran up staggering losses in the fourth quarter as the U.S. economic crisis wiped tens of billions of dollars off their portfolio of toxic debt.  The gigantic losses sent Barclays plunging by almost 25 per cent or 32.4p to an all-time low of 98p amid growing fears over its own pool of opaque debts.  Panic station: Two of the New York traders who handle Citigroup  Wall Street's deepening crisis has raised concerns that Britain's high street banks are plunging headlong into their own bad debt catastrophe.  As auditors put the finishing touches to year-end accounts, the suspicion is that UK lenders will be forced to reveal mammoth hits to their piles of toxic assets.The mounting losses underline the need for a rescue package comprehensive enough to unblock wholesale lending markets.  Bankers, ministers and officials at the Treasury and the Bank of England will be working through the weekend to hammer out a programme - which could be unveiled as early as Monday.  However, confusion still surrounds what form the bailout will take. Sources say the solution currently favoured in official circles is some form of guarantee over interbank lending.  Under plans being considered by the Treasury, the government would underwrite hundred of billions worth of debt backed by mortgage. The programme could also be extended to credit card debt and loans to businesses, said sources.  The aim would be to revive the home loans market and put a floor under the plunging property market.  More importantly, fresh loans could be extended to viable businesses, scores of whom going out of business every day because of the credit drought.  But banking sources say the more likely solution would be to create a bad bank to take toxic loans tied to sub-prime mortgages.  Although highly complex, this would cleanse balance sheets across the industry and give banks the confidence to begin lending to each other again.  The crisis at Merrill forced new owner Bank of America to proffer the begging bowl for the second time in a matter of months.  Washington is pouring a further 13.5billion into the group and is guaranteeing 80billion in losses on loans in a bid to keep the financial juggernaut afloat.  And having spun off its prized stockbroking division earlier this week, Citigroup is breaking itself in two to stave off collapse.    Read later  Email to a friend  Share this article:  View allAdd your comments  Comments (0)  No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts?  Click to rate     Rating  Add your comment  Name: Email: Your email address will not be published Town &amp; Country: Your comments:  Make text area biggerYou have 1000 characters left.  Remember me - this will save you having to type out your name, location and email address when you next leave a comment.  Terms &amp; conditionsClear Submit Content  
