NEW YORK  John Thain resigned under pressure from Bank of America on Thursday after reports he rushed out billions of dollars in bonuses to Merrill Lynch employees in his final days as CEO there, while the brokerage was suffering huge losses and just before Bank of America took it over.  Merrill Lynch Chairman and CEO John Thain, left, listens as Bank of America Chairman and CEO Ken Lewis speaks during a news conference Sept. 15 in New York.  AP FILE PHOTO   BEBETO MATTHEWS  The bonuses were paid before Bank of Americas acquisition of Merrill became final on Jan. 1, and while Bank of America was privately telling the government that Merrill was losing so much money that the deal might fall through unless it could get more federal bailout money.  Bank of America later received an additional $20 billion from the government, in part to offset the unexpected Merrill losses. The brokerage lost $15 billion in the fourth quarter and more than $27 billion for the year.  The bonuses, typically paid in January, were instead given in December and totaled $3 billion to $4 billion, the Financial Times reported Thursday. Bank of America would not confirm the size of the bonuses.  Scott Silvestri, a Bank of America spokesman, noted that Merrill was still operating as an independent company at the time the bonuses were paid. Had Thain not acted early, it would have been up to Bank of America to pay or reduce the bonuses later.  Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis flew to New York on Thursday to meet with Thain, and within hours the spokesman issued a terse statement saying the two had mutually agreed that his situation was not working out and he would resign.  The government helped orchestrate the acquisition of Merrill by Bank of America over the same weekend in September that another investment bank, Lehman Brothers, went under, setting off the most intense period of the financial crisis.  The government also promised last week to guarantee about $97 billion in losses on Bank of Americas troubled assets, most of it coming from Merrill Lynch.  Thain himself did not accept a bonus last year. Nor did four other top executives at Merrill: its president and chief operating officer, its president of global wealth management, its chief financial officer and its general counsel.  Thain, 53, is a former head of the New York Stock Exchange and a former chief operating officer of investment bank Goldman Sachs. He had been named head of a wealth management division of the merged businesses of Merrill and Bank of America.  
