Market Folly: In his previous post, he sat down to explain how contango affects the crude oil ETF's and ETN's that many investors and traders usually play, including USO, OIL, &amp; DBO. This next piece is a follow-up post to that topic. So, before beginning, make sure you check out: 'How Contango Affects Crude Oil ETFs &amp; ETNs.' Next, he takes a look at how to play crude oil using those same ETFs &amp; ETNs. Here is the article:  Objective  This article provides some straightforward insight as to how a retail trader/investor can implement a directional play on the price of crude oil. Included is a discussion of the manner in which the forward market for crude oil can cause crude oil ETF returns to deviate from spot market returns. This article is not intended to be authoritative, comprehensive, or highly technical. It is simply a compilation of previous discussions on the topic (with some added elbow grease and my version of common sense). Readers should be aware that much of the material in this article has been discussed previously here and here. Certain elements of this article are pulled directly from these sources.  Note  When I first wrote about the effects of forward curves on crude oil ETFs, the crude market was in steep contango and the discussion attracted widespread attention. More recently, the crude curve has flattened somewhat and it may appear to some individuals that the curve shape has become less of an issue to retail speculators. I have a different view. I believe that sharp volatility in the shape of the curve makes it imperative that retail crude speculators understand how curve adjustments can affect their positions. This topic is not dying, but rather garnering added importance.  Introduction - Retail Investors Cannot Trade Spot Crude Oil  I have a friend with fairly extensive stock trading experience who generates most of his technical market analysis using the S&amp;P 500 futures contract. When it comes time to transact, however, he will swing over to the cash market and trade an ETF such as SPY (S&amp;P 500) or a leveraged ETF such as SSO (2x the S&amp;P 500) or SDS (2x the inverse of the S&amp;P 500 - a double short). Although he and I share the same trading objectives (to capture a directional movement in the S&amp;P 500), I choose to generate my technical analysis using the precise instrument which I expect to trade. In my case, SPY (or SSO or SDS if I desire leverage). I am confident in my approach because I know the instrument I am trading exhibits an extremely tight relationship to movement in the S&amp;P 500 cash market. Simply put, I trade SPY because is a highly dependable proxy for replicating the spot market of the S&amp;P 500.  Unfortunately, traders or investors wishing to implement a directional play on crude oil lack access to a tradable instrument, which tracks spot crude oil in the same manner that SPY tracks the S&amp;P 500. Instead, we must choose from an array of instruments which are structured with the intent of tracking crude prices, but with flaws relating to the fact that crude oil (unlike the S&amp;P 500) is a physical commodity for which spot trading is limited to those who can transport, store, or produce crude oil.  Crude Oil Futures  The Curve  Fortunately, despite our lack of access to the crude oil spot market, there is a highly liquid market for futures contracts which reference crude oil and, the price of these contracts exhibits volatility which generally resembles the movements in the spot market. Many traders transact directly in crude oil futures contracts, electronically or in the futures pit. These traders rely on the fact that they will never have to physically handle the commodity itself. They can simply close out their futures positions prior to expiration and net out the difference between their entry and exit price.  The fact is that trading in crude oil futures (which expire monthly) is spread out over several months, even years. The price of crude for delivery at future expiration often varies substantially from month to month. At times, prices in future delivery months are progressively higher than in the nearest delivery month (contango), and more often than not, the opposite is true (backwardation). Many futures traders have specialized knowledge of the day-to-day shifts in supply and demand fundamentals and they are comfortable projecting price movements at specific points along the forward curve. The typical retail investor probably lacks the skill-set needed to profitably exploit, forward curves in a sophisticated manner.  Introducing Crude Oil ETFs/ETNs  For the retail crude oil speculator who is incapable of trading crude oil futures, there are tradable ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds) and ETNs (Exchange Traded Notes) which employ futures contracts in pursuit of the general objective of tracking the price of crude oil. A typical crude oil ETF will hold long positions in WTI (West Texas Intermediate) crude oil futures contracts. As with most futures traders, these funds employ leverage, putting up a small portion of the capital to buy the contracts. The rest of the funds assets are invested in money market instruments, which generate a modest amount of interest income for the fund.  ETFs  The Roll  In theory, the existence of crude oil ETFs enable individuals to implement a single equity trade to express a view that crude oil prices will either rise or fall in the future. Unfortunately, this objective is compromised by the existence of a forward curve in the crude oil futures market.  Because of the forward Curve, any ETF referencing crude oil cannot simply rely on ownership of the existing front month (closest to expiration) futures contract. To remain invested at all times, it must periodically sell its existing futures holdings and roll its exposure to a futures contract expiring in a more distant month.  ETFs  Return Components  With crude oil ETFs, the technical result of utilizing crude oil futures for the NAV (net asset value) return is dependent on three variables:  Changes in the spot price of crude oil  Interest earned on un-invested cash,  The roll yield,  which is a function of the spread between the price of the contract being sold and the price of the contract being entered.  In contango markets, the roll yield will be negative because the fund must pay up to enter the more distant contract, and the opposite is true in backwardated markets. Furthermore, the precise timing of the forward roll can have a material impact due to the propensity of the expiring contract to experience high volatility in the days immediately prior to expiration.  Roll Yield  ETF Return Illustration  Let us consider the case of a hypothetical crude oil ETF that provides exposure to the front month crude oil futures contract, with the exposures rolled forward as expiration approaches.  To illustrate the concept of the roll yield, assume that the 2009 spot return on crude oil is +20%. But, assume that persistent contango in the market results in a cumulative roll yield of -15 %. In these circumstances, the combined return of a crude oil based ETF might be in the ballpark of +5%, a far cry from the +20% return generated in the crude oil spot market.  As illustrated, contango in the crude oil market may cause ETF returns to lag spot market returns. Not surprisingly, a flat/stable forward curve would result in a minimal roll effect. On the other hand, a backwardated curve may cause the ETF to outperform the spot market.  Roll Yields  A Source of Tracking Error  The variability of roll yields coupled with the shifting slope of the forward curve should dispel any notion that the return on crude oil ETFs will track the spot market of crude oil in a predictable manner. The managers of the crude oil ETFs and ETNs are fully aware of this issue and they make no claims regarding their ability to replicate spot crude returns. They merely claim to attempt to track a return benchmark that is comprised of crude oil futures contracts, thereby providing traders/investors with some ability to participate in directional movements in the price of crude oil. (Note: This situation is analogous to an issue, which exists with certain leveraged (non-oil) ETFs that have proven to be extremely deficient in terms of tracking their benchmark indices in volatile markets. These instruments have strictly adhered to their stated strategies and objectives, but have failed to achieve the imaginary objectives of many careless traders.)  ETFs/ETNs  Examining the Fine Print  Included below is some language directly out of the prospectuses of some of the more popular crude oil ETFs and ETNs. Notice that the managers willingly acknowledge the issues related to forward curvature and the roll yield impacts on returns. This segment of analysis will focus on the three most popular crude oil instruments in existence today: an ETN (OIL) and two ETFs (USO &amp; DBO). Many of the issues raised herein are applicable to all crude oil ETFs and ETNs, although leveraged ETNs (such as PowerShares DB Crude Oil Double Long ETN (DXO)) involve complications, which are not analyzed here.  ETF versus ETN  Counterparty Risk  No discussion of crude oil ETFs would be complete without some mention of the important difference between an ETF (Exchange Traded Fund) and an ETN (Exchange Traded Note). With an ETF, the assets of the fund secure holders, so the credit worthiness of the fund manager firm is not a relevant consideration. If the manager collapsed into insolvency, the ETF would be unaffected, except for the possibility of a change in management (which is not an important consideration in the case of a fund, which is passively managed in order to match a specific benchmark). In contrast, owners of an ETN are unsecured creditors who receive a mere promise to pay equivalent to the value of the underlying assets.  Let's simplify this distinction. If a given ETF and a given ETN have the same exact net asse...
