U.S. stocks bounced around the flat line in a volatile session Friday as a tumble for the financial sector because of another round of government intervention was masked by a rally for defensive sectors like utilities and health care. Traders said the expiration of equity options, which leads triggers closing of positions in the stock market, accounted for the dizzying gyrations. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently off 7 points at 8204, but it's swung in and out of positive territory all session, down as much as 102 points and up as much as 128 points at different junctures. 'Today is expiration,' said Joe Saluzzi, one of the founders of agency brokerage Themis Trading. 'That always adds a little flavor to these things.' Bank of America tumbled 15% after reporting a $1.79 billion loss and receiving a $20 billion injection of government funds to help absorb losses from recent acquisition Merrill Lynch. The largest U.S. bank by assets was once seen as a strong hand in the financial crisis, and in mid-September was confident it could digest Merrill Lynch without government assistance. Another bank that was a buyer during September, taking over some of Lehman Brothers Holdings operations, Barclays saw its shares fall 26% to $6.24. The Times (of London) newspaper reported Friday that the U.K. government is considering fresh measures in the to get banks lending - including capital injections. Barclays and HSBC Holdings have so far refused government cash, which would likely be 'dilutive' for shareholders. Citigroup fell 3% after some morning gains after the government moved to back $400 billion of its assets. Citigroup also reported an $8.29 billion quarterly loss and said it would split into two business units, with one made up of brokerage and retail asset management, local consumer finance and a special asset pool. 'There will be some price to pay for all of the things the government is doing right now. You can't just wave a magic wand and everything is better,' said Barry Ziskin, chief executive of Z-Seven Fund. The capital injection into Bank of America and the guarantees for them and Citigroup are 'still treating the symptoms,' said Michael Darda, an economist with MKM Partners in Greenwich, Conn. 'The underlying cause is falling home prices and highly leveraged households,' he said. Darda ran some data on the last 'bottom' for financial stocks, and the broad market after a banking crisis, January 1991. Back then, the inventory of houses on the market was far less than it is now, and interbank borrowing rates were much closer to Treasury rates. In other words, the banks are still working their way through this crisis. And some traders are beginning to mistrust 'bailout rallies' as 'artificial bottoms,' as was the case earlier Friday. They are reluctant to buy into these moves until the stock market can rally on something other than a report of government intervention. 'With government bailouts, the market reacts positively at first - and then a couple of weeks later, we realize this is an even bigger mess than was before,' said Saluzzi. The broad Standard &amp; Poor's 500 was recently up a point at 845, as its financial sector recouped an earlier 6% loss. The only two categories up were utilities and consumer staples, which are both traditional safe-haven bets. Other market yardsticks moved from early gains to losses. The small-stock Russell 2000 was off 2 at 461. The technology-oriented Nasdaq Composite Index tacked on 3 to 1515. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
