WASHINGTON: The US government extended a new lifeline on Friday to Bank of America, injecting another $20 billion in capital and guaranteeing $118 billion in shaky assets to help it weather the ongoing financial crisis.  he latest bailout for the largest US bank by assets is aimed at helping Bank of America absorb broker Merrill Lynch, which faced a meltdown last year as the credit crunch intensified.  A joint statement by the US Treasury, Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) said the government would invest $20 billion in the bank, on top of a $25 billion injection last year under the Troubled Asset Relief Programme (TARP).  Additionally, the government "will provide protection against the possibility of unusually large losses" on $118 billion of assets backed by residential and commercial real estate loans, which have been frozen due to the housing meltdown and credit crisis. The banking giant will pay the government a dividend of eight per cent on the investment and agree to limits on executive compensation. The bank also agreed to implement a "mortgage loan modification programme" to limit foreclosures that have been rising, threatening to undermine a recovery in the housing sector."The objective of this programme is to foster financial market stability and thereby to strengthen the economy and protect American jobs, savings, and retirement security," Treasury said.The bailout comes with US authorities scrambling to avert a further collapse in the banking sector that could deal another economic blow. A similar deal was announced last year with Citigroup. But some analysts were skeptical."Like Citi, Bank of America has now received more in bailout money than it's actually worth," said Barry Ritholtz at Fusion IQ. "How this can ever be a profitable investment?"Bank of America appeared healthy enough to buy up troubled mortgage lender Countrywide Financial last year as well as Merrill Lynch. But Robert Brusca at FAO Economics said the bank "simply bit off more than it could chew."BofA has already received $25 billion in capital injections from the TARP, a US financial bailout fund set up to help rescue mainly banks reeling from financial turmoil triggered by a home mortgage meltdown.  That included $10 billion for the investment brokerage firm Merrill Lynch, which BofA bought in a deal that closed January 1. BofA will absorb the first $10 billion of losses and the US taxpayers will cover the next $10 billion.
