With former Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain now called on to testify as New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo begins his investigation into the $4bn in bonuses granted to Merrill staff last month (dubbed BonusGate by wags), The Financial Times has reported that some Bank of America staff, who have yet to bag their 2008 bonuses, are likely to have their payouts locked in until 2011 (presumably in deferred equity). According to the newspaper this relates to staff who receive bonuses over $50,000. A BofA spokesperson called the media report 'not entirely accurate', but declined to elaborate further to clarify the matter.  There is growing anger among Bank of America staff who feel that their own bonus pot will be smaller because of the $15.31bn losses Merrill sustained in the fourth-quarter, and yet Merrill staff, who were advised of their bonus numbers first, may end up walking off with substantially bigger payouts. The FT quotes one unnamed BofA executive who said: 'This is going to cause uproar'. In truth, BofA is between a rock and a hard place. Clearly the noise around the Merrill payouts is unwelcome, but there's not much that BofA can do to pacify its own legacy staff - BofA has its own capital constraints, and politically, there is no way that US taxpayers, lawmakers and the bank's stockholders will tolerate bigger cash bonuses being paid out now.  One banker told Here Is The City: 'This is lunacy. Thain and (BofA CEO Ken) Lewis should have sorted this bonus issue out. It was always going to be a thorny issue, given the different compensation structures at the two firms, and the fact that Merrill was likely to post heavy fourth-quarter losses. These guys were merging their businesses. Surely they should have been working together. This was all so avoidable, but Thain and Lewis appear to have been asleep at the wheel. It now looks like blowing up big time in both their faces'.  And although Bank of America's board came out Wednesday and expressed support for Lewis and his management team, this issue is escalating and many feel that more heads will roll before it is over.   In the meantime, Bloomberg reports that a Zurich-based UBS spokesperson has confirmed that the bank's 2008 bonus pool will be less than $1.75bn, which represents a fall of over 80% on 2007.  Finally, The New York State Comptroller's office has calculated that cash bonuses paid to Wall Street securities firm employees fell 44% last year (from $32.9bn to $18.4bn).  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend.
