(The Charlotte Observer - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- MJP   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Bank of America Corp. chief executive Ken Lewis has recommended that his board of directors award him and his top lieutenants no 2008 bonuses, saying the company's performance was 'well below any of our expectations,' the Observer has learned.  The Charlotte bank joins a host of other financial institutions, including Wachovia, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, in eschewing bonuses for top executives in an atrocious year for the industry. Bank of America and other banks that received federal bailout money are under particular pressure to withhold yearend payouts.  Lewis told eight direct reports of his decision around the holidays and confirmed it in an e-mail sent to them Monday afternoon. A bank spokesman confirmed the authenticity of the e-mail. The recommendation needs board approval, which Lewis said was likely.  'This was a difficult decision because we have worked hard and made progress on many projects that will create value for our company in future years,' he said in the e-mail, citing the acquisitions of Countrywide Financial and Merrill Lynch as well as a successful LaSalle Bank integration. 'Nonetheless, we are a pay for performance company.'  The final numbers are not in yet, but Lewis said it's apparent 2008 performance was below expectations. Shareholders have already suffered, he noted. Their shares fell by 66 percent during the year, and the board halved the bank's lucrative dividend.  'It is only fair that our most senior executives, who have been rewarded in past years when our company and stock price performed, should now share in the pain as performance has lagged,' he said.  Bank of America has reduced the target for year-end bonuses for other employees, Lewis said. Of the 10 'bands' of Bank of America employees, half are eligible for year-end bonuses. Higher-ranking employees will take larger reductions this year, Lewis said.  'Clearly, 2009 will be another challenging year,' he said. 'But I am confident that we will continue effectively to build and integrate our businesses to differentiate Bank of America in the marketplace when economic conditions improve.'  Lewis received a $4.25 million bonus for his 2007 performance, as part of about $17 million in total compensation. Through the first nine months of 2008, Bank of America made $5.8 billion in profits, down from $14.7 billion in the same period of 2007. The bank reports fourth-quarter earnings later this month.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, which bought Charlotte-based Wachovia last month, has not disclosed bonus plans for CEO John Stumpf, who received a $4.2 million payout in 2007. Wells spokeswoman Melissa Murray said the board of directors makes that decision, typically in February.  Wachovia said last month that outgoing CEO Bob Steel and his top reports would not receive bonuses for 2008.  As for other employees, the bank said it will significantly reduce the pool for this year's bonuses, which 'will pay an average of 20 percent of incentive targets.' That decision has irked employees in businesses that performed well in 2008.  Staff Writer Christina Rexrode contributed.  To see more of The Charlotte Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.charlotteobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Charlotte Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.  For full details on Bank Of America Corp (BAC) click here. Bank Of America Corp (BAC) has Short Term PowerRatings of 3. Details on Bank Of America Corp (BAC) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
