CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- A crucial quarterly board meeting Wednesday could increase pressure on Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Ken Lewis to make sure his acquisition of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. works. Lewis has been criticized in recent weeks after the company reported a $2.39 billion fourth-quarter loss, its first quarterly loss in 17 years, and increasing difficulties with the Merrill Lynch purchase. During the October-December period, Merrill Lynch lost more than $15 billion, and it paid out year-end bonuses days before the deal was closed and as Bank of America was seeking billions of dollars in additional government bailout money.   As the bad news has mounted, some analysts have questioned Lewis' job security, although the company has given no indication he's in jeopardy. Others, though, feel his job is safe for the time being.   The bank's directors may not want to let go of a leader who has succeeded in the past. Moreover, several have long-standing relationships with Lewis. 'He's pretty tight with the board,' said Bert Ely, a banking industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. 'Remember, they all went along with the Merrill acquisition.' If the board feels something must be done, one compromise could be to strip Lewis of his chairman's title. But that could be seen as a sign that Lewis is on the way out, Ely said, undermining his leadership.   On the other hand, if Lewis were to be removed as CEO role, assuming the board thought a change is necessary, 'I think it would be important to keep him at some capacity (as chairman) for experience purposes,' said Jason O'Donnell, a bank analyst with Boenning &amp; Scattergood Inc. But even analysts who believe Lewis will keep his job say he and his company will be under greater scrutiny. 'Ken Lewis' reputation has risen and fallen with Bank of America's stock price,' said Bart Narter, a bank analyst at consulting and research firm Celent.   The bank's stock has been among the hardest hit in the financial industry. It has lost almost 60 percent of its value since its Merrill deal went through at the beginning of the year. The stock is down nearly 85 percent from one year ago; it closed Tuesday at $6.50, up 50 cents, or 8.33 percent.   Many analysts have said Lewis must now spend his time working through the Merrill acquisition and trying to restore the company's credibility and earnings. 'The deal has been done. The challenge today is they have to make it work,' Ely said. 'For as long as he is CEO, the board is going to be very supportive of him.' But Lewis is still under a great deal of pressure, wrote Nancy Bush, an analyst with NAB Research, in a research note Monday. 'We foresee whatever remaining tenure he may have as being concerned with dealing with the company's various regulatory minders and dealing with Merrill integration issues,' Bush wrote. 'We cannot rule out the possibility, however, that the roles of chairman and CEO might be separated and a new CEO named in the near term, as we think that it is highly unlikely that large shareholders and other important constituencies are going to be happy with the preservation of the status quo.' A Bank of America spokesman declined to discuss the board's agenda or whether it plans to meet at the bank's Charlotte headquarters or offsite.   The meeting is set to take place just a day after Bank of America's chief administrative officer, J. Steele Alphin, was subpoenaed by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo amid an investigation into year-end bonuses Merrill Lynch paid executives just before being sold to Bank of America.   Merrill's former CEO, John Thain, was also subpoenaed. Thain took over as head of the combined company's wealth management unit before resigning last week amid reports of the bonuses being paid days before Merrill was to close its sale to Bank of America and report a $15 billion fourth-quarter loss.   At the same time, Bank of America was seeking more federal funds to help it absorb the mounting losses at the New York-based investment bank it acquired. It got $20 billion, on top of the aggregate $25 billion the two companies received last fall.   The Merrill Lynch acquisition is certain to be discussed Wednesday. 'I think they need to deal with the public relations problems they created,' said Gary Townsend, president of Maryland-based private investment group Hill-Townsend Capital. 'Lewis can at least promise that because it does nothing to enhance investor or customer confidence.' 
