By Daryl Loo and Olesya Dmitracova LONDON, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley gave up a chunk of its office space in the Canary Wharf business district on Thursday as London's property sector continues to struggle with the impact from the credit crunch. The U.S. investment bank has exercised an option to break its lease for a quarter of its office space in Canary Wharf from Feb 2010, 10 years before it was due to expire, the landlord's parent Songbird Estates said. The 345,500 square feet of space, spread over six floors at 20 Cabot Square, is currently occupied by its back-office staff, a Morgan Stanley spokesman said. 'This move represents part of our multi-year strategy to consolidate our space requirements in our two larger, wholly-occupied buildings: 25 Cabot Square and 20 Bank Street, our new European corporate headquarters,' Morgan Stanley said in a statement. London's commercial real estate market, geared heavily towards financial services, has been struck particularly hard by turmoil in the industry, dragging property values down by a record 27 percent in 2008. Analysts are expecting properties such as offices and retail space to lose as much as another 16 percent in value in 2009, while rents could drop another 12.5 percent as vacancies rise. Songbird shares closed down 3.5 percent, against the broader UK market which lost 2.5 percent. The office landlord said that after taking account of the space Morgan Stanley is giving up, Canary Wharf Group's portfolio would be 95.7 percent let, down from 99.7 percent. NOT EXODUS Tenants frequently negotiate a break clause in their contracts midway through the lease term, to ensure they have the option to relocate. Songbird said that it does not expect many more tenants to exercise this option. 'It's not an exodus from Canary Wharf,' said Songbird Group Secretary John Garwood, pointing out that Morgan Stanley continued to lease 546,500 sq ft at 20 Bank Street, and to own and occupy the 448,500 sq ft building at 25 Cabot Square. 'Even if all the break clauses were exercised, the average unexpired lease term for Canary Wharf is still 15.6 years and that would be one of the longest in the sector,' he said. Still in the balance are offices currently occupied by Merrill Lynch, another U.S. investment bank which was bought by Bank of America last September. 'We don't know yet what their intentions are. We've got no indication as yet,' Garwood said, adding that it was not in negotiations with Bank of America. Japanese bank Nomura signed a new tenancy agreement earlier this month that will keep it resident at the former Lehman Brothers' European headquarters in Canary Wharf for at least another two years.  
