Fleming, who was to lead unit at merged company, is taking a teaching post at Yale.  rrothacker@charlotteobserver.com  Greg Fleming  Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co.'s former president is leaving Bank of America Corp. a week after the Charlotte bank acquired the New York investment banking giant, the bank confirmed Thursday.  Greg Fleming, who had been set to lead the combined corporate and investment banking unit, is taking a teaching job at Yale University. He is the latest high-ranking former Merrill executive to depart after initially agreeing to stay on. On Monday, Bob McCann, picked to lead the combined brokerage unit, said he was leaving.  The loss of top executives is not surprising because Bank of America is known for imposing its cost-conscious culture on the companies it has acquired. Bank of America chief executive Ken Lewis has long expressed trepidation about buying investment banks because of the potential for clashes.  The announcement comes as Bank of America begins layoffs within the combined corporate and investment bank. A spokesman declined to provide details but said the cuts are part of previously announced plans to eliminate up to 35,000 jobs companywide over three years as part of the Merrill Lynch takeover.  Bank of America's investment banking presence in Charlotte, which includes a trading floor in uptown's Hearst Tower, could take a substantial hit in the layoffs, said a source familiar with the bank's operations. The bulk of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch's investment banking operations are in New York and elsewhere.  Fleming was a Merrill Lynch veteran who had been passed over for the CEO post in 2007. Instead, Merrill Lynch's board chose outsider John Thain to replace the ousted Stan O'Neal as the firm reeled from massive mortgage-related losses. Fleming was a top Merrill Lynch dealmaker who has advised Charlotte-based Wachovia, now part of Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co., on some of its big purchases.  Thain has stayed on at Bank of America as president of global banking, securities and wealth management. Thain will not replace Fleming, a sign he is consolidating his management team, a source familiar with the situation said. The bank also saves money by eliminating big-salaried executives from its ranks.  Moody's Investors Services on Thursday lowered its debt ratings for Bank of America, citing the greater challenges Bank of America faces in acquiring Merrill Lynch during difficult economic conditions. Moody's senior vice president David Fanger said the bank's capital position remains relatively weak, leaving it a modest cushion to absorb future loan losses and securities writedowns.  Melding operations with an investment bank also is more difficult than absorbing a traditional retail bank, Bank of America's specialty, Fanger said.  Investment banking and wealth management businesses are heavily reliant on their personnel and their client relationships, he said. This increases the risk of customer defections and franchise impairment as a result of a poor integration.  Bank of America's shares fell more than 1 percent on Thursday to $13.54.  Subscribe to The Charlotte Observer &amp;amp; Earn Miles.  
