'In all cases, where actual losses are involved, I'm inclined to say that when a new investment has shrunk by 10%, it's time to stop, look, and listen. I think it usually ought to be sold-out, and the loss taken. I'm almost inclined to say, dogmatically, sell it out before trying again,' Loeb advised his readers, concerning wagers in the stock market that turn sour, due to unexpected and unforeseen events.  A once-in-a-century financial crisis has brought some of the world's largest banks to the brink of insolvency, and quasi-nationalization, choking-off credit to wide swaths of the private sector, and threatening to throw the world economy into its deepest and longest recession since the 'Great Depression' of the 1930's. Global stock markets have been mauled by the fallout from the 'credit crunch,' losing roughly $32-trillion of market value from peak levels reached in October 2007.  'The Arab world has lost a total of $2.5-trillion in the past four-months, as a result of the global financial crisis,' admitted Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammad al-Sabah on Jan 19th. Declines on foreign stock markets accounted for $600-billion of the losses, while Arab investors were also hurt by sharp declines in oil revenues, declining value of property investments, and other repercussions of the global downturn. Still, ignoring Loeb's empirical rule of limiting one's losses to 10%, when they inevitably arise, due to unforeseen events, was an expensive education.  In the second half of 2008, the OPEC oil reference price plummeted 75% from a record high of $140 /barrel in July, to as low as $34.50 /barrel in December. Persian Gulf property prices also crashed as the credit crisis engulfed the financial markets. Consequently, investor sentiment turned negative and the efforts of Arab Gulf kingdoms to stimulate their economies and boost investor confidence failed. The UAE stock markets absorbed the biggest blow, shedding 72.4%, Saudi Arabia's TASI lost 56.5%, and Kuwait's lost 38%, during the past year.  In a desperate attempt to stop the slide in oil prices, Saudi Arabia removed 1.7-million barrels per day (bpd) of oil from the world market in the second-half of last year, to 8-million bpd, and Saudi oil chief Ali al-Naimi said on January 13th, the kingdom will cut an extra 300,000 bpd of supply in February. But the combination of declining oil prices and production cutbacks is expected to trim OPEC's oil export revenue to $440-billion this year, down sharply from the $962-billion in 2008, when the OPEC cartel raked-in from oil exports, according to the EIA.  China's trade surplus climbed 13% to a record $295-billion last year. But Beijing will spend 4-trillion yuan or ($586 billion) of its surplus cash on domestic stimulus projects this year, to cushion its economy from a hard landing. China's exports, the key engine of growth for its economy, have plunged from a +22% growth rate a year ago to -2.8% in December. One-third of the 45,000 factories in the major export cities of Dongguan, Shenzhen and Guangzhou have shut-down, idling millions of workers, and forcing Beijing to spend more money to create new jobs.  Bonds are Safer than Stocks during Deflation  According to Mr Loeb, 'Successful investing is a battle for financial survival. Investing is fundamentally, an effort to obtain a rental from others, for the temporary use of one's capital. One should attempt to conserve the purchasing power of money, through the purchase or retention of fixed interest and principal obligations (i.e. bonds), including cash and a government promise to pay, only during cycles of deflation, and various forms of equity holdings, only in cycles of inflation.'  Joseph Yam, chief of Hong Kong's central bank, warned of a second round in the financial crisis on Jan 21st. 'The effect of this round will be even more widespread and have a huge impact on the world's financial markets. We have a difficult year ahead,' he said. Today, central banks are slashing interest rates to historic lows, in a desperate race to head-off the scourge of deflation, favoring high-grade bonds.  With the US stock market suffering its worst year since the 1930's, the Lehman Treasury bond index posted a gain of 14.6%, its best performance since 1995. Ten-year US-Treasury yields started the year at 4.03% and closed at 2.20%, after trading near 4.11% as recently as October. Practically all of the gains happened in the last two months of 2008, as deflationary signals became more visible.  The two biggest foreign buyers of US Treasuries over the past 15-months have been the Arab oil kingdoms, ($245-billion), and China, ($233-billion). But with dwindling external surpluses, and big economic troubles at home, the Arab oil kingdoms and China's government could be absent from this year's Treasury auctions. How will the US-Treasury finance the 2009 budget deficit, which could eclipse $2-trillion, including massive bank bailouts and big stimulus packages?  Shell-shocked investors in the US-stock market were badly burned last year, and are now sitting on a record $3.85-trillion in money market funds. However, the Federal Reserve has driven the fed funds rate into a target range of zero to 0.25%, and has vowed to keep interest rates pegged near zero for a long period of time, probably through 2009. Taxable yields on money funds have tumbled to a pitiful 0.60%, after annual operating expenses are deducted.  The idle cash parked in US-money market funds is nearly equal in size to China's FX reserves and the SWF's of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia combined. Would holders of US-money market funds agree to buy long-dated Treasuries, in order to finance the deficit at historically low interest rates? Or should investors turn to higher-yielding, high-grade corporate bonds, especially for companies with strong balance sheets, and little debt coming due over the next few-years, - a better investment than stocks, if the US-economy is hobbled by an extended period of deflation.  Barclay's High-Grade Corporate Bond Index, (US-symbol: LQD), has recouped most of its losses from the post-Lehman bankruptcy shakeout, including its $5.60 annual dividend payments. Still, buying corporate bonds is not without risk, especially if the Dow Jones Industrials tumble below the November low of 7,500, ushering in a 'Great Depression,' and increasing the odds of company defaults. Also, corporate notes might sink under the weight of $2-trillion of fresh Treasury debt this year.  The plunge in the US Treasury's 10-year yield to 2% was preceded by a stunning collapse of commodity markets, especially for base metals and energy. In the span of just six-months, the Dow Jones Index of 19-exchange traded commodities, swung from a annualized +40% gain in July, to a stunning -41% loss in December. Volatile swings in the commodity markets are often seen as leading indicators for producer prices, and ultimately, the consumer price index.  The US-Consumer Price Index (CPI) fell 0.7% in December, the third-straight monthly decline, capping a year in which prices advanced only 0.1%, the weakest 12-month reading since December 1954. Gasoline fell 17.2% and accounted for almost 90% of the decrease in headline CPI. If commodity markets can't recover in a meaningful way in the months ahead, the CPI and producer prices (PPI) would begin to show outright signals of deflation seeping into the broad economy.  On Dec 18th, Dallas Fed chief Richard Fisher said the US-central bank would take whatever steps necessary to avoid that outcome. 'We stand ready to grow our balance sheet even more should conditions warrant. At the current time, the biggest concern is deflation and the Fed can worry about inflation later. We have to do everything we can to lift the economy up and prevent deflation from taking hold.'  On Jan 15th, Chicago Fed chief Charles Evans said, 'With the United States is in the midst of a serious recession, it could be useful to purchase significant quantities of longer-term securities such as agency debt, agency mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities,' he said. Thus, the Federal Reserve is expected to be the buyer of last resort for the upcoming supply of US-Treasury debt, by running its electronic printing press at billions of dollars per hour. The biggest risk for today's buyer of Treasury-notes is that the Fed might be successful someday, in reviving inflation.  Longer Period of Deflation and Depression ahead  If a long period of deflation and depression lies ahead, then a best case scenario one might expect is an 'L' shaped economic recovery, after stock markets finally reach the elusive bottom. The lethal 'credit crunch,' engineered by the top-tier US-banks, has led to the massive destruction of 2.6-million US-jobs, which in turn, is fueling a downward spiral, where unemployment depresses consumer spending, retail sales, and business investment, which in turn, lead to further layoffs.  The US-economy has little chance of a sustained recovery unless President Barack Obama purges the management of the elite banking cartel that has brought this great calamity upon millions of innocent American workers. Former Treasury chief Henry Paulson handed out $200-billion of taxpayer money to the big-banks, with no strings attached, and no stipulations to increase lending to the private sector.  Banks have also raised $115-billion by selling FDIC-guaranteed bonds since Nov 26th, enabling them to rollover their debts coming due at super-low rates, while leaving the rest of corporate America high and dry, and worried about defaulting on their bonds, in the event of an economic depression. In order to preserve precious cash, companies have resorted to slashing capital spending and their payrolls.  Obama will have a 'strong message for the bankers,' adviser David Axelrod said Jan 19th. 'We want to see credit flowing again. We don't want them to sit on any money that they get from taxpayers,' he warned. Obama's approach is in sh...
