DUBLIN (Reuters) -- Ireland defended its dramatic move to nationalize Anglo Irish Bank, as fears over its impact on an already wounded economy hiked the cost of protecting against a sovereign default to record highs.  Dublin abandoned plans to inject $2 billion into the commercial lender and opted instead to take it over amid fears it could collapse. 'The worse thing that can happen from Ireland's point of view is that a bank can fail. If a bank fails the damage to the country, the reputational damage to the country, in trashing deposits and refusing to honour obligations, would be enormous,' Finance Minister Brian Lenihan told national radio on Friday.  But analysts warned exposing the taxpayer to Anglo's property portfolio would ramp up an already expanding debt pile, putting strained public finances under even more pressure.  The cost of protecting Ireland's debt against default hit record highs and spreads on credit default swaps for Germany, Spain and Austria also hit new peaks. 'These events are traumatic and painful for each of you, for shareholders and staff and I apologise on behalf of myself and the board,' Donal O'Connor, Anglo's new chairman, told outraged shareholders at a meeting in Dublin's city centre.  Anglo, a former poster boy for Ireland's 'Celtic Tiger' boom, stunned the industry last month when its then-chairman Sean FitzPatrick admitted he had repeatedly misled shareholders about the amount of money he had borrowed from the bank.  O'Connor said FitzPatrick had 84 million euros worth of outstanding loans as of September rather than the 87 million euros stated previously. The other directors, most of whom have resigned, had loans of 95 million euros.  Ratings agencies have already warned that Ireland's exposure to the banking sector and its economy facing its worst recession on record this year could affect its AAA credit rating.  Brian Lucey, an associate professor of finance at Dublin's Trinity College, said he expected national debt to double. 'As time has gone on it has become abundantly clear that there are so many unexploded land mines in Anglo that the government had to throw something on it ... Unfortunately they have thrown the Irish economy on to these exploding bombs.' The bulk of Anglo's loan book is property-related but despite a 35% drop in commercial property prices last year and no support in sight, O'Connor said Anglo was sticking to its guidance for loan loss provisions to range from 0.8 percent to 1.2% of the book over the next three years.  Analysts welcomed a removal of the uncertainty surrounding the future of Anglo, whose shares were suspended.  But the rest of the sector was rattled with Allied Irish Banks down 14% at 1.668 euros, Bank of Ireland down 4.4% at 0.86 euros and Irish Life &amp; Permanent nearly 4% weaker at 2.165 euros.  Lenihan said the top two lenders AIB and Bank of Ireland, which unlike Anglo Irish have significant retail operations, were well capitalised and would not need to be nationalised.  The government plans to inject 1 billion euros into both AIB and Bank of Ireland and will underwrite their plans to raise a further 1 billion euros each in capital.  Lenihan also said the government may examine the possibility of creating a 'bad bank' to park toxic assets now held on lenders' balance sheets.  One Dublin-based analyst said Anglo Irish would be a perfect vehicle for such a plan, which has been mooted by the head of the Federal Reserve as a way of retooling the U.S. bank sector. 'When we have severe economic downturns a lot of losses for banks come from the commercial property side of things and Anglo, given that is its speciality, is actually probably a very good vehicle,' said the analyst. Ireland was already forecasting a jump in its general government debt to GDP ratio to 53% this year from 41% last year and 25% in 2007, when cracks first started to appear in the domestic property market.  The Irish government tied the state to the fate of the banking sector last October when it agreed to guarantee all deposits of major Irish lenders and foreign banks with a significant Irish presence.  The amount covered, up to 485 billion euros, is more than twice the country's annual GDP. First Published: January 16, 2009: 7:51 AM ET
