In one of the most dramatic days on Wall Street, the US Government threw a lifeline yesterday to Citigroup and Bank of America, which could leave American taxpayers on the hook for up to $373 billion (254 billion). The rescue came as Citigroup split itself in two while Merrill Lynch, which was taken over by Bank of America (BoA), reported a $15.3 billion loss for the fourth quarter. BoA made its first quarterly loss for 17 years.   Citigroup announced its fifth consecutive quarterly loss and hinted that the departure of Robert Rubin, the former US Treasury Secretary, who resigned as a director last week, would not be the last from the board.   The drama began when the US Government acted to put a floor under BoAs plunging share price by agreeing to inject $20 billion into the group and to underwrite the losses on a further $118 billion of its most toxic assets. The $20 billion injection will come from the US Governments $700 billion Troubled Assets Relief Programme (Tarp) and will make the Administration the banks largest shareholder with a 6 per cent stake.   Any money that the Government pays to cover losses on the $118 billion portfolio of toxic assets that it has guaranteed will be funded separately by the American taxpayer.   BoA also reported a $1.79 billion loss for the fourth quarter, compared with a profit of $268 million the year before. The result did not include the contribution of Merrill Lynch, which houses the majority of the newly merged groups most toxic assets and produced a $15.3 billion loss for the fourth quarter compared with a $10.3 billion deficit the year before.   Citigroup, which last year was still ranked as the biggest bank in the world, plans to split itself into two businesses: Citicorp will house its retail and investment banking operations while Citi Holdings will house the brokerage and asset management units.   The group announced an $8.29 billion loss for the fourth quarter, compared with an $8.9 billion deficit the year before, and disclosed its own government rescue package. That will mean that Citigroup absorbs the first $39.5 billion of losses on a designated $301 billion package of the banks most high-risk assets. The Government will assume 90 per cent of any other losses on those assets, which are mostly bad loans and securities backed by residential and commercial mortgages.   Citigroup hinted that there were further senior level changes to come at the bank. There has been a series of top level moves including the decision last week by Mr Rubin to resign from Citigroups board after criticism for his role in leading the bank to the brink of collapse. Richard Parsons, the chairman of Time Warner, who was described yesterday by Citigroup as its lead director, said: The Citigroup board of directors is committed to strong, independent corporate governance at all times but especially in the challenging conditions we face today. He added: There has been one announced departure from the board. Together with other anticipated departures, this gives us the opportunity to reconstitute the board. Kenneth Derr and Franklin Thomas, who are both in their early seventies, are expected to be among the directors to depart. Citigroup declined to comment on whether they would leave and if the reshuffle would include the departure of Sir Win Bischoff, Citigroups British chairman.   Shares in Citigroup ended down 8.6 per cent at $3.50 in New York last night. They had lost close to half their value over the previous two days. BOAs stock closed down 13.7 per cent at $7.18. 
