 Morgan Stanley &amp;amp; Co. has hired Wachovia Corp.'s former general bank head, Ben Jenkins, as the New York investment bank looks to build its retail banking operations, according to sources familiar with the situation.   Details about Jenkins' new role weren't available this evening. Jenkins and Morgan Stanley representatives could not be reached for comment.   Jenkins, Wachovia's former vice chairman, becomes the latest Wachovia executive to join Morgan Stanley. In November, the firm named Cece Sutton head of its retail banking operations. Former Wachovia colleague Jon Witter is her chief operating officer.   Earlier today, Morgan Stanley confirmed former Wachovia executive Will Howle also will hold a senior position in the firm's retail banking operation. As part of Wells Fargo's takeover of Wachovia, Howle had been named chief operating officer for the San Francisco bank's eastern retail banking region.   The hiring of Sutton and Witter in November led to speculation that Morgan Stanley could base its retail banking operation in Charlotte. Lately, there's been talk in the real estate community that the firm is scouting the city for office space. Morgan Stanley spokeswoman Christy Pollak declined to comment.  After converting to a bank holding company last year, Morgan Stanley is looking to add deposits because they are a more dependable way to finance operations. By basing operations in Charlotte, the firm could tap talent shed by Wells Fargo and Bank of America, which are both looking to cut costs after big deals.   Some experts, however, have said Morgan Stanley might buy another bank to build deposits and likely would base its operations in that bank's hometown. . @Nyx.CommentBody@  Disclaimer  The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting.  Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer.   If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. 
