 Bank of America today announced that Brian Moynihan has been named  President of Global Banking and Global Wealth and Investment Management.  (Logo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20050720/CLW086LOGO-b )  Moynihan replaces John Thain who is leaving the company.  The company also said that Tom Montag will continue to run Global Markets  and will now report to Ken Lewis, Bank of America chairman and chief executive  officer. Montag will also become a member of the Management Executive Team,  which sets strategy for the company.  Moynihan has been General Counsel of Bank of America. He will occupy that  role while the company searches for his replacement. Previous to the merger  with Merrill Lynch, Moynihan ran Global Corporate and Investment Banking for  Bank of America. Before that, he was President of Global Wealth and Investment  Management at the company.  'Brian Moynihan is a strong manager and one of those people who can  effectively envision strategy and execute,' said Ken Lewis, Bank of America  chairman and chief executive officer. 'He has excelled at everything we have  asked him to do.' Lewis emphasized that the change in leadership in no way  reflects a significant change in direction for the Global Banking or wealth  management units.  'Those organizations, which formed the heart of Merrill Lynch, will  continue to serve their clients as world class financial service providers,'  Lewis said. 'We are quite happy with their performance since the merger.'  Lewis added that, 'Tom Montag is getting a well-deserved promotion. He has  provided strong leadership during our transition so far, and we believe that  Global Markets will in the future be a significant profit center for our  company.'  Moynihan, 49, continues to report to Lewis and be a member of the  company's Management Executive Team. He joined Bank of America in 2004,  following Bank of America's merger with FleetBoston Financial. At Fleet, he  led Brokerage &amp; Wealth Management after leading Fleet's Internet strategy.  Before that, he directed the corporation's strategic development for six  years, overseeing all mergers and acquisitions. He joined Fleet Financial  Group in April 1993 as Deputy General Counsel.  Montag, 52, joined Merrill Lynch as executive vice president and head of  global sales and trading in 2008, prior to the company's merger with Bank  of America. Before that, he was with Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., where he was  co-head of the global securities business and a member of the company's  Management Committee and Equities/FICC Executive Committee. During his 22  years with Goldman Sachs, Montag was co-president of the firm's Japanese  operations and co-head of Asian FICC and Equities, before becoming co-head of  the global securities business. Earlier in his career, Mr. Montag ran the  firm's global derivatives business.  Bank of America  Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions,  serving individual consumers, small and middle market businesses and large  corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and  other financial and risk-management products and services. The company  provides unmatched convenience in the United States, serving more than 59  million consumer and small business relationships with more than 6,100 retail  banking offices, nearly 18,700 ATMs and award-winning online banking with  nearly 29 million active users. Following the acquisition of Merrill Lynch on  January 1, 2009, Bank of America is among the world's leading wealth  management companies and is a global leader in corporate and investment  banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving  corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. Bank  of America offers industry-leading support to more than 4 million small  business owners through a suite of innovative, easy-to-use online products and  services. The company serves clients in more than 40 countries. Bank of  America Corporation stock is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average  and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  www.bankofamerica.com  SOURCE: Bank of America  CONTACT: Investors,  Kevin Stitt,  Bank of America,  +1-704-386-5667;  Lee McEntire,  Bank of America,  +1-704-388-6780;  Reporters,  Bob Stickler,  Bank of America,
