The number of North Carolina workers who want a job but can't find one remains at an all-time high, with nearly 400,000 of the state's residents out of work, according to statistics released Friday.  The jobless rate hit 8.7 percent in December _ the highest level since the recession of the early 1980s, when the rate reached 9 percent in June 1983. The national unemployment rate was 7.2 percent, marking the 11th straight month North Carolina's rate was above the national average, according to the Employment Security Commission of North Carolina.  In November, the state posted a 7.8 unemployment rate. In December 2007, when economists say the recession began, the rate was a mere 4.7 percent. 'We've had two really bad months,' said Michael Walden, an economist at North Carolina State University. 'The recession started later in North Carolina than it did in other parts of the nation. We were doing really well. What it (the data) says is that the recession is now in full force here.' His predictions are grim: He expects the jobless rate to hit 10 percent this year amid the state's volatile manufacturing industry _ an economic sector that gets hit hard during recessions _ and the financial industry's tumble.  Since this time last year, unemployment has increased by nearly 185,184 people, the data shows.  Gov. Beverly Perdue, who came into office this month facing an expected $2 billion state budget shortfall, said the statistics were sobering. She said the data reflects 'the impact the global economic crisis is having on North Carolina,' and vowed to help get people back to work.  The manufacturing industry was among the hardest hit, losing 39,800 workers since the recession began in December 2007, a change of 7.4 percent. Walden said manufacturing is especially vulnerable during recessions because people and businesses can often postpone buying manufactured goods when finances are tight. 'If you think your furnace is on its last legs, you can probably still get a few more months out of it. It's an up and down economy,' Walden said. State leaders have worried that North Carolina's job market will continue to get worse in 2009 as the large banking industry prepares to shed jobs.  Tens of thousands of people work in the Charlotte area for Wachovia Corp., recently acquired by San Francisco-based Wells Fargo &amp; Co., and Bank of America Corp., which recently acquired Merrill Lynch. Bank of America has said it plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs across the company over the next three years, and Wells Fargo also plans layoffs. 'That's another shoe that will drop,' Walden said. 'Wachovia has 20,000 jobs in the Charlotte area alone. When we have those job cuts that are expected, it would have a big affect on the state's unemployment rate.' But layoffs are hard to predict, said commission spokesman Larry Parker. 'The banks are getting bailed out left and right, but we haven't seen that affect the financial services sector in North Carolina yet,' he said. 'Just because a company announced layoffs, it doesn't mean that number will be reached.' The professional and businesses sector, which includes all businesses that provide services _ from lawyers and accountants to landscapers and architects _ also took a big hit last year, nearly identical to the manufacturing industry's numbers.  It was the hardest hit industry in December, reporting 11,400 lost jobs, or 2.4 percent. Parker said that largely could be attributed to part-time and contract workers who lost their jobs.  But there are bright spots. Walden said the health care industry continues to do well, and the employment commission's statistics indicate growth in education fields.  Since December 2007, educational and health services have added the most jobs with 18,100, a 3.5 percent increase. The sector also had the highest over-the-month gain in December, adding 1,000 jobs. 'Health care is different. A large number of its revenue doesn't come from the individual, it comes from insurance and the government. And health care can't really be postponed,' he said. Government reported 2,600 more jobs since December 2007, for a 0.4 percent increase. No other industries tracked by the commission reported a net gain for the year.  ___  On the Net:  Employment Security Commission of North Carolina: 
