There are clearly some dark times ahead for the US.  We are in the midst of a gripping recession, everyone's 401k now just seems like a 4k, unemployment is skyrocketing, the deficit for this year could hit $1 trillion, and we are still involved in two wars... clearly things are going to suck for a while.So, what's the new government going to do in the first 100 days, and what would a president-elect Cam do?What Obama will probably do:Pass another stimulus package to give most Americans $1000 or so, bail out Detroit's automakers, and freeze foreclosures for 90 daysTry to provide universal health care coverage for all AmericansStart the drawdown in Iraq and transition focus to AfghanistanStart the "Green Revolution" in hopes of creating jobs, reducing dependence on foreign oil, and addressing climate changeHere's what a president-elect Cam would do:I would go to the mortgage lenders (like Countrywide, Bank of America, JP Morgan, etc) and tell them to provide two lists - one for every vacant foreclosure and one for every occupied foreclosure.  I would then tell them they have a one time opportunity:  We will buy every property on the vacant list for 50 cents on the dollar.  After we buy them, we will tear down any single family homes, recycle as much as possible of the home, and turn the vacant lot into green space that is handed over to the local city government.  We would then offer everyone in an occupied home the opportunity to refinance at a reasonable (6%-ish) rate, with no fees OR the opportunity to sell their home to the government (via a bank agreed upon short sale) for 50 cents on the dollar.  This would instantly start to raise home values by massively reducing supply, increase green space in cities, allow people to escape without having their credit destroyed, and allow the banks to finally clear out their inventory of homes.  It would also create jobs for the people who would be tearing down all the old homes.  Obviously condos can't be destroyed (b/c we still have people who have paid in the buildings).  So we would turn all government condos into rental housing to be administered by the local city government.  This would allow for the cities to make up for lost tax revenue.Offer every American government sponsored "emergency" health coverage for a reasonable fee.  It would cover non-chronic illnesses and emergency care (e.g., injuries, emergency operations such as appendectomies, etc).  It would not cover appointments and preventative medicine, nor chronic illnesses (like cancer or AIDS treatment or prescription drugs), but if people could get cheap government protection against the big ticket items like emergency room visits, then they could get access to cheaper "regular" insurance that didn't cover these items.I agree that we need to rapidly draw down troop numbers in Iraq and Afghanistan.  I would completely withdraw from Iraq, and only keep a modest number of troops in Afghanistan, while working to get a true UN mandate to build an international peace-keeping forceI would mandate that all cars have higher fuel efficiency through whatever means and mandate that companies try switch from coal fired to natural gas fired powerplants (or wind/solar/tidal farms) within 20 years.  The government would subsidize this by allowing for all costs to be completely tax deductible. So, what about the stimulus?  Sorry, but I'm not going to give you that $1000... Why not?  First, of all, it does not address the root of the problem - the housing crisis.  With the housing crisis going on, people will not lend anyone money, they will not lend companies money, and house prices will go down until they hit rock bottom levels and foreclosures cost us trillions.  If you are underwater on your mortgage, you'll use that $1000 or so, maybe to catch up on payments, but then in another month or two, you're late on your payment again and your real problems are still there.  You'll lose your home, and that $1000 will just be sitting in a bank somewhere, not helping anyone.  Also, that $1000 won't create jobs, it will just stop jobs from being lost so quickly in sectors like retail... once that stimulus spending stops, it's bye bye, Ms. Cashier at Banana Republic.  Right now, Countrywide has $3.3 billion in foreclosures listed on it's website (20,000 homes).  That's about $160K/home.  We would give them $80K/home on average, and for $3.3 Billion would have cleaned out one of the biggest players.  For the $300 Billion a stimulus package would cost, we could get more than 350,000 homes off the market... to give you an idea of how much that is, that would eliminate 1/3 of all foreclosed homes in the US... another $300B would get rid of the next 1/3... so, for less than the bailout package, we just solved 2/3 of the problem, and with inventory reduced that much, home prices will rise, giving people an opportunity for sell at a breakeven price.This would stop home prices from falling and fix the banks' balance sheets in one fell swoop. 
