i hate to say i told you so, but this is what happens when we have big businesses controlling our country. things go badly. it's just that simple. two days ago the representatives from 3 of the country's largest auto manufacturers went to washington to ask congress for bailout money. they took their private jets. no, really. they came begging for money on their private jets. can't we at least pretend to be poor? it's not like these guys are celebrities and can't fly commercial airlines because of the paparazzi. if the ceo of Ford sat right down next to me on a plane, i wouldn't have a blessed clue who he was, in fact, i'd probably steal his airplane nuts. i think most people would feel the same way.sure, big businesses employ lots of people. in my opinion however, and as is being illustrated by the financial situations of these businesses,&amp;nbsp; the risk of allowing this is too great. america used to be cool when it had tons of small businesses. some of them flourished, and sure, having a couple stores or restaurants all over the country so everyone can enjoy your great food/widget is fine. and some of them failed too, and their creators admitted it, and graciously stepped aside to make room for new entrepreneurs with ideas the public might prefer. what happened to this philosophy? since when should a business not be allowed to fail? isn't this at base (im afraid to say this) a republican value? you tried your hardest and failed miserably. either try harder, or move out the way. maybe these auto companies and failing banks should be allowed bailout money. maybe they should fail. maybe they should get their hands into other businesses besides car making, like Berkshire Hathaway (in the fortune 500 top 10!) who makes fruit of the loom underwear, creates pampered chef food and cooking pots, and owns geico insurance (huh???)i don't know enough about economics to say whether or not america should learn the hard way (the hard way being not lending money to these companies and letting tons of employees be laid off). what i do know is that this shouldn't have happened. we're not talking about a single mother with 3 kids on welfare with no skills and no guidance asking for money. we're talking about major businesses with enough legal counsel and financial advisors to fill the city of baltimore. we're talking about people who have made billions and billions of dollars through the years. we're talking about companies who are still involved in legal battles (AIG-largest insurance company in the WORLD) over "misappropriation" of 20 billion dollars-oops! how did this all happen? this shouldn't have happened.&amp;nbsp;see? you as an american, DO make a difference-it just took you being really really poor to do so. 
