I don't like to see my mom cry. And if someone makes her cry then they got a problem with me too. I love my extended family, even the ones that I have hardly gotten a chance to know. I would love to get to know all of them actually, but there is not enough money and time in this lifetime to do all those things. They especially should understand this, of all people. I will defend my mother because she is the most kindhearted, well-intentioned person I have ever met or will ever meet. When they start accusing my mom of things that they have no idea about is when I get angry. Both my mother's side and my father's side of the family consist of 7 brothers and sisters. And since as far back as I can remember both of their families have always held this enormous amount of tension towards us. In our family we are the outcasts. We have never been super close really to anyone and I'm fine with that. I've realized the closer you are with extended family, sometimes the worst off you are. It breeds a lot of jealousy and competition. My mother and father are the two most hardworking, humble people I know. Everything we have we have gained through our own sacrifices. We have never asked for welfare, we have never asked from help from any of our family, not once, when easily we could have done both. Growing up, we lived in a shitty ass apartment full of cockroaches and the four of us managed to live on an income that probably one person could not have lived on. I don't know how we did it but we did. All my clothes up until probably 6th grade came from the Salvation Army. And so when any of my family comes up to my parents and starts attacking them saying that we never help them out; that we have so much money; that we are selfish, is when I get fucking pissed off. We aren't the bank of america. We have helped all of them in sometime or another tremendously both financially and emotionally and they always feel like we owe them something. We're helping you help yourselves. We have all that we have because we have struggled for years. Life isn't fucking easy and they, being full ass grown adults, should know better and stop acting like childish, premature teens. And if someone starts attacking my mother with ignorant bullshit that they really know nothing about well then, I'm not really sure I ever want to get to know you.
