Executives from American International Group (AIG), the insurance conglomerate that was recently bailed out by taxpayers to the tune of $150 billion, held a party back in October.  It cost over $440,000 and was held at the 5-start St. Regis Resort.  They spent over $139,000 on rooms, over $147,000 on banquets, and $3,000 for in room dining.  And because these executives have had a rough few weeks, they spent over $23,000 at the spa.  Yeah, our taxpayer money was going to help support these junkets. Now, our friends at AIG decided to get frugal.  According to Brian Ross of ABC News, instead of wasting $440,000, they decided to meet in secret at the luxurious Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak Resort and waste just $343,000.  But they saved on signage at least: they told the hotel to take all references of AIG down, including all logos and signs, and they instructed staff never to use the word AIG.  Apparently some AIG executives are getting harassed by taxpayers...go figure.Don't you think some hotel staff member, worried about his or her job in this economy, is going to pick up the phone and rat them out?  Well, that's exactly what happened.   Who's the moron that thought they could keep this a secret?  That guy needs to be fired along with the rest of these clowns.I know, I know you say...Mark, you're always telling us to think positive, live a life of abundance and not of scarcity, and think BIG.  Well these folks certainly thought big alright.  But as I said before, when the village calls and asks where its idiot went, let them know he was at the Squaw Peak Resort working with AIG.  Ok, now back to the real world most of us live in...The financial markets were under pressure today after disappointing results reminded investors that consumer confidence is weak.It was no surprise to those in the housing industry that another homebuilder announced some disappointing news.  Homebuilder Toll Brothers Inc. said that revenue plunged 41% to $691 million, with net signed contracts dropping 27% last year.  Robert I. Toll, Chairman and CEO, said: "Unfortunately, the preliminary signs of stability we had discussed in early September, during our 2008 third quarter earnings call, were upended by the past month's financial crisis. Results of this crisis -- accelerating fears of job losses, a large decline in consumer spending, a significant capital crunch, increased credit market disruption, and plummeting stock market values -- all contributed to drive our cancellations up to 233 units."There are fewer folks sipping $5 coffee these days.  Starbucks reminded everyone that when a recession hits, folks are just fine with the fat guy from Dunkin Doughnuts making the coffee.  Starbucks Corp. announced that there were no bucks coming in over the quarter.  It earned $5.4 million versus the year ago period's $158.5 million. So the media convinced Americans that Obama can lift a mountain over his head with one arm and make a perfect pitcher of Kool-Aid with the other.  Let's see if the media can make the sheep believe that now that Obama is president they can spend more money and live in style never to worry about their financial problems again.&amp;nbsp; Since so much of our modern world is based on pure emotion and momentum Let er ripThe banks messed up bigtime. High powered execs got greedy. Lazy politicians can't make up their minds. This is all true, but what I know for sure is that CHANGE is happening faster today than EVER before. Change is all around us.  It's everywhere we look.  I've always made it a habit to embrace it and NOT push it away.  So come on let's see what YOU can do.I know one thing for sure, If the villiage idiot still works at AIG, and idiots out there that think just like him, idiots that are going to continue to spend like idiots, most folks are just going to continue to go broke.&amp;nbsp; They're broke thinkers!&amp;nbsp; I have no problem taking their money!After I round house kick 'em in the face with my ninjitsu jedi swift kick kung fu chawwwwwwww!P.S.&amp;nbsp; marquee mark doesn't sleep, he waits.P.P.S. marquee mark put humpty dumpty back together again, only to roundhouse kick him in the face. Later he dined on scrambled eggs with all the king's horses and all the king's men. The king himself could not attend for unspecified reasons. Coincidentally, the autopsy revealed the cause of death to be a roundhouse kick to the face. There is only one King! MUUAH -ah -ah -ah ahhhhhh!P.P.P.S. Marquee Mark sold his soul to the devil for his rugged good looks and unparalleled house flipping abilities. Shortly after the transaction was finalized, He roundhouse kicked the devil in the face and took his soul back. The devil, who appreciates irony, couldn't stay mad and admitted he should have seen it coming. They now play poker every second Wednesday of the month.&amp;nbsp;
