rather than have yougo to the overnight summaryalthough you shouldlet TB point out two sets of headlines:  *Gulf Citizens Beg for Bailouts as Stock Rout, Oil Slump Spell End for Boom *Panic Strikes Hungary, Poland Borrowers as Banks Cut Dollar, Franc Loans  There is a reality check you dont needthe Gulf depends on handouts from the governmentmeanwhile their sovereign wealth funds are investing in U.S. and European financial stocksand losing their shirtsovernight they pumped in money to Barclays which avoided a U.K. capital infusionthat cannot be good for stability in the Middle East. Then there was this set of headlines:  *U.S. Auto Sales Probably Fell For 12th Straight Month as Credit Tightened *Consumer Spending in U.S. Probably Fell in September as Job Losses Climbed  This caught TBs eye because he BARTed to the City last night to have dinner with a friend (Greens at Fort Masonvegetarian and not only is the food incredible, but it has the best view of the Golden Gate TB has ever seen from a restaurant), and as usual he took along his sheaf of reading material for the ride. Readers know that TB likes John Mauldin and his latest Outside the Box had an 18 page Annual Forecast 2008 by the Stratfor Group. It was so comprehensive that TBs head is still spinning and he never did get through the entire piece.   What shocked him however was their prediction that the worst is over in the U.S. financial markets but they fully expect Europe to get much worse as Emerging Markets growth slowsand then this:   The American recession will probably be over by years end, but Europes will likely stretch through most of 2009.  With all due respect, we havent even had the ECRI declare we are in recessionyou noted how the stock market rallied on Q3 GDP (Advance) being down just 0.3% when consensus was -0.5%. Now go back and reread those two headlines. With credit tight, even if we have fixed the problemwhich TB does NOT believe, as we are still trying to solve it by putting out fires instead of addressing the entire problem.  Do you honestly believe the consumer will be backby the end of the year no less? Remember those six credit cards that the average American hasmostly tapped outwith high payments and home equity?forget it! Remember the watch word last year after the stock market peaked? Our economy will slow but the rest of the world will carry us. Well, that fizzled. Also, remember that oil and gas prices would rise for as far as the eye can see due to peak oil and rapidly increasing global demand. Of course, TB warned you that that was BUNK! That the surge in commodities prices was not due to increased demand (with the exception of Rough Rice due to Malaysia having that huge typhoon destroy the rice paddies and the price is still high per a friend who is a custom blender of grains and former commodities trader who is still shaking his head). Rather, it was due to $60 billion of public pension fund money moving into commodities index funds which in turn did commodities swaps with major banksthink JPMorganChase. JPM in turn using an obscure CFTC rule (and distorting it as it applies only to the underlying commodity), purchased all the contracts they needed with no limit unlike all other players including speculators and commercials! When the CFTC finally got it thru their collective skulls they had to have approached the banks and warned them off or else they would publicly change the rulesand you saw how quickly prices dropped at that point. Gasoline is no problemfirst, people have shifted to mass transit or are driving less as we knowalthough Europeans think we are nuts complaining about $5 gas. If they could they would buy it all up and ship it home. Last night TB saw not one but two gas stations in SF at $2.995 a gallonwhen was the last time you saw that??? But food prices are another thingfirst is the conversion of corn for ethanola stupid concept whose time has went (as Leo Carillo, the Cisco Kids sidekick, Pancho would say). But more importantly producers have reduced the size of packages elevating the price per ounce so that even if they cut the prices you will pay more than you did at the onset. This happens every time without fail.  True, we wont have unemployment at Great Depression levels but thanks to Wal-Mart and others (which Jim Cramer lauded last night), wages are going nowhere so how does one reduce debt and increase consumption at the same time. Do we honestly think this will be a green Christmas? The worst thing is that after throwing trillions of dollars at this and in the end it will be, what will we have solved? Nothing! We will have FIXED it but not solved itlike putting your finger in a dikeit works until you get tired of standing there then comes the onslaught.  There is only one permanent way to solve our spending spree problems and that is to save. Unfortunately, that unleashes a whole set of new problems as it means paying off bills and credit cards first so you can save in the first placeand saving in stocks sure hasnt worked over the past ten yearstwice! This implies even lower consumption and that means lower corporate earnings and thus more layoffs, like AmEx (p/e 10x) announced yesterdaylaying off 7,000 workersyet the stock ralliedas did Visa and Mastercard who will not see increased transactions but fewer and smaller ones and are still trading at p/es of 20x and 16x respectively!   So it escapes TB how we can be out of a recession by yearend that we havent officially even enteredeven though Martin Feldstein, Chairman of ECRI says we are in one, but unofficially. Do any of you doubt we are in a recession? Do you believe it will be shallow and short? You decide. Lets hope we dont get a lot of tricks todayonly treatsbut that sure is asking a lot these daysthe pain is excrutiating.   Just listened to Larry Kudlow in an objective (sic) interview with John McCain who once again invoked Joe the Plumberthere are no Joe the plumbers, John! They dont make $250,000 a yearand in fact their small businesses dont GROSS $250,000 a year which isnt even at issueTB heard last night that about $80 billion of taxes each year go uncollectedand small businesses are known for understating incomesome as much as liar loans were overstated. TB has to think McCain believes we are stupid or why else would he repeat this. The other day a friend wrote that Biden said they were only going to raise taxes on those making $150,000 or morepullease! Do they really want to lose this election? The problem is you spread a rumor like that and the next thing it is all over the internet. What he said was that 95% of people earning under $150,000 a year would get a tax cutand what the Obama site said is that only those making more that $250,000 ($200,000 if single), would see a tax hike (which is actually restoring it to where it was when Bush cut taxes which widened the wealth gap). But it is fun to take numbers and throw them out because they must be true, right? Dont take TBs word, or the GOPs word try going to www.factcheck.org and see how many distortions are out thereand outright fabricationsthis is getting disgustins. We deserve more.    Have a terrific weekend!  TB   Trader Bill thinks it is clear to anyonereading these missivesthat they aremerely commentaries&amp;#8230;as he sees it&amp;#8230;and do not necessarily reflect theviews of anyone other than his own. Information is gatheredfrom sources he has found reliable, but no guarantees of accuracy are implied.These are merelyobservations of events in the marketplace offering in an attempt to offer anon-mainstream viewpoint. Hope you find it useful. CopyrightTBD Capital LLCOctober 31,2008. 
