AIG, the world's largest insurance company, is at it again. In October, the group spent a whopping 440,000 dollars on excessive pampering of executives....big banquets, manicures/pedicures and luxurious trips to the spa, to name a few of the recreational activities the executives splurged on. This, after the company begged the government for a bailout to help them during this financial crisis. After receiving 85 billion dollars and a boatload of negative criticism for their reckless spending, AIG said they wouldn't let it happen again....until now. A month later.After receiving a reworked bailout plan in the neighborhood of 150 billion dollars, the company's promise to stop "all nonessential conferences, meetings and activities that do not clearly maximize value and service" was completely ignored. A series of seminars at another resort in Phoenix exemplifies that this corrupt company is not abiding by the rules and can't be trusted. The employees of the resort/hotel were asked to keep the seminars secret and one hotel worker, on a Good Morning America segment featuring a hidden camera, wouldn't even speak the words. (although one worker did confirm the "secret" AIG seminars) Of course AIG is defending its spending, saying this type of "wooing" of clients is necessary. Really? When you are drowning in debt? And if you have nothing to hide, why are you keeping these seminars secret and forcing hotel employees to a code of silence?My question is this----Why are Americans not screaming out at the top of their lungs about this type of injustice? Why aren't CEO's of corrupt companies like AIG being held accountable for activites that should be considered criminal? That money is OUR money, the taxpayers, and while many of us may be losing our jobs or homes, those well-paid AIG executives and clients are kicking back while a immigrant, who's probably a paycheck away from homelessness, is giving their old, withered scaly feet a pedicure. While you are wondering where you will get the money to feed your children or how to pay your medical bills, that AIG employee that was aided in the bailout is enjoying a trip to the gym before a cocktail party or a big banquet. WHAT IS WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE? I think these horrible people need to pay for their immoral behavior and the injustice they are commiting against the hardworking, honest people in this country. I think the CEO of AIG should be FORCED to resign, no matter what kind of policy is in place to keep him entrenched in the company. I think that all those ridiculous bills and expenses should be paid back, every cent, by those executives who enjoyed those unnecessary priviliges. All the top executies, along with the CEO should be fired and replaced and denied any golden parachute that they are bound to get upon leaving. And not only that, each of them should serve time for STEALING money from the taxpayers of this country. If Martha Stewart had to serve time for the ridiculous sentence she received, then these lowlife, greedy monsters should spend 2 or 3 years in jail. It's time to make examples of these corporate thieves who rob this country and walk way from it with a simple slap on the wrists. If we don't get a grip on this time of outright theft, we are on the course for complete economic failure. This type of unethical behavior at the top of corporate America can't continue. Speak up America! PLEASE!!!!!!
