TOP SECRET TRANSCRIPT OF PRESIDENT BUSH AND PRESIDENT-ELECT OBAMAS FIRST MEETINGBush: Barack. Please sit down. First, let me congratulate, yall.Obama: Thank you, Mr. President.Bush: Now you call me George. Were on the same team.Obama: I appreciate that. You know what I want to know first?Bush: Of course I do. Same thing I wanted to know when I first got here. No, there are no aliens at Area 51.Obama: Thats disappointing.Bush: We keep em here in the White House basement next to Cheneys cage so he can throw rocks at them.Obama: My cousin is locked in the basement?Bush: Sure is, ever since the whole shotgun thing and if I were you, Id lock your friend Joe the Biden down there too. Theres a whole lot of problem gone for you right there.Obama: Wait a minute. Go back. There are space aliens in the basement?Bush: Oh, space aliens? The space aliens we keep at Guantanamo Bay. But, thats not important right now. The important thing is that I know you fully understand the main purpose of this office.Bush/Obama together: The Harvard/Yale Full Employment Act (sound of palms slapping)Obama: Can we do the count?Bush: You do the call and Ill respond.Obama: Okay, outgoing president.Bush: Thats me. Im a little bit Haaaahvad, a little bit Yale!Obama: Incoming President.Bush: You. Theres Hahhhhhvad in your past.Obama: Bill Clinton.Bush: Wild Bills a Yalee. Throw in Hillary for good measure, too. Another Yale grad.Obama: Clintons predecessor.Bush: Thats my pop. A Skull n Bones Yalee!Obama: The Supreme Court.Bush: Ummm, six Hahhhhhhvads and two Yalees!Obama: Wait, thats only eight of nine.(Barely audible sound of beer can opening)Bush: I know, but Cheney says that was Fords doing. He nominated that old guy, Stevens, in 75.Obama: But, Ford was fromYale! What was he thinking?Bush: What can I say? But youll get to put in another Harvard guy soon enough. If you get to pick four or more of them, make sure you give us another one fromYale, though.Obama: I love it. While the press is all focused on politics as usual, Ill slip in more  Harvard alums. Frankly, I could care what he believes as long as hes wearing crimson underwear.Bush: Careful, Barack. It could be a woman. You want the press jumping down your throat so soon?Obama: Ooops. Please dont tell Michelle I said that.(Barely audible sound of fist bump).Bush: Now, lets look at policies. We got the Iraq problem. Obama: Im on it. Dont worry. Were not leaving until Bank of America, McDonalds and Burger King all have franchises.Bush: Good. You got it. Now, we also got the Iranian nuclear problem.Obama: You old dog. You can say nuclear perfectly well.Bush: Of course I can. You think after eight years I couldnt learn how to say it? I just like messing with the presss heads. Gets them all excited and they dont pay attention to what you are talking about.Obama: I have to remember that.  Say, you know how I sometimes flatten out the end of  America. Maybe that will be my thing. Sort of hypnotize them with it.  Bush: Now youre thinking. Hey, one last thing. Take this.(barely audible sound of paper being opened)Obama: Whats this?Bush: Thats bin Ladens address. If there is some big problem you just cant handle, you may have to send Petraeus over with some boys to take em out. But, this is our big show, so make sure you only use it when theres a real crisis that you have to get the countrys mind off? Personally, I never had to use it.Obama: But why didnt you play this card last month when the economy was collapsing.Bush: Because, my friend. Thats was McCains problem. (undesignated sound of beer can opening and an aaahhh sound). And hes not even Ivy League. Now, if youll excuse me. I have to start writing Scooter Libbys pardon papers. Hes another Yale boy, you know.
