Looking back, the Obama campaign was flawless and too good to be true. It was the kind of "love at first sight" that creates unintended consequences.It was smooth and slick. It was like one of those Sunday night BBC dramas that my wife loves to watch.  (I'd rather watch sports but she loves them!)It didn't hurt that the US news media enjoyed the play and fell in love with the lead actor. In this case, the play critics became cheerleaders for the actor.What happens after you watch the BBC drama? You go back to the real world. In our house, it means going to sleep and checking up on the boys here and at Texas A&amp;M. (Why aren't you home yet? Did you finish your studying?)BO now faces a challenge that none of his predecessors ever faced. He has to live up to the character figure that his campaign created. We have never seen a US presidential candidate have this impact on crowds.Many of my readers have seen this in other countries. (Obama and the Politics of Crowds )We have never seen this kind of irrational adoration in the US before. My parents saw it in Cuba. My Venezuelan friends are seeing it with Chavez. Some of our older friends may remember Peron and Argentina. It's the story of the orator, the irrational crowds and the disappointment that always follows.Have you noticed some of the headlines today?Check this from the liberal but honest Washington Post:"The Post provided a lot of good campaign coverage, but readers have been consistently critical of the lack of probing issues coverage and what they saw as a tilt toward Democrat Barack Obama. My surveys, which ended on Election Day, show that they are right on both counts."My Go! Are you telling me that the media was in the tank for Obama?From the UK, we get this one:"Everyone, from Australia to Kenya, seems to think Obama will improve their lives. They should prepare for disappointment."How can you please people who jump up and down and say "yes we can"? Aren't they a bit irrational to begin with?  How can you satisfy the German lady who said that Obama was going to improve her life?  How can you please an irrational human being? You can't!  How is Obama going to create jobs in Germany anyway?  Isn't Germany's stagnant and high unemployment a conseqence of the kind of economics that Obama wants us to have in the US?It gets better. The Telegraph from the UK tells us the obvious:"He now has to make that permanent by showing that America, in what he calls its "leadership" of the world, can construct a foreign policy that causes other normally supportive nations to be, well, normally supportive, without America rolling over. George Bush found this impossible. I wouldn't bank on St Barack finding it much easier.There are some nasty people on the planet - Mr Medvedev is but one of them - and St Barack will find that the minute he squares up to them (if he squares up to them) a lot of other nasty people will come out of the woodwork to oppose him. Barack Obama is only human, you know!"Is that so? By the way, let me add this to the previous point.Bush was not the first president who found it difficult to work with the Europeans. Clinton couldn't get the Europeans or the UN to do a thing about Bosnia. This is why he had to go around the UN and send US troops under the NATO flag.It's true that there were other countries in Bosnia mission. However, it was primarily the US doing all of the heavy lifting.Clinton couldn't get the UN Security Council to do a thing about Iraq. This is why Clinton had to bomb Iraq unilaterally over and over again. Unilateralism? It did not start with Bush.  Obama will learn the painful lesson: The Europeans don't have troops or much of a disposition to do anything serious.The Europeans just want to sit in their outdoors cafes and criticize the US. Ironically, they enjoy that freedom of expression because the US Mediterranean Fleet is parked nearby to protect them.We saved the best for last:"LIBERAL GROUPS ROLL OUT THEIR WISH LISTS"! What's on their list:"Gays serving openly in the military. Voting rights for more ex-convicts. Paid sick days and family leave for most workers.Feminist leaders want Obama and the new Congress to address pay inequity for women and pass the Freedom of Choice Act, which would overrule many state-level restrictions on access to abortion."Can you blame these liberal groups? Didn't candidate Obama promise them all of this? Didn't candidate Obama say that he would repeal all abortion restrictions across the country, such as parental notification for teen girls getting an abortion?On Friday afternoon, Pres-elect Obama answered questions. Did you notice the stock market numbers? They kept dropping as he spoke.Coincidence? Perhaps. Unfair? Probably.However, this is what happens when you elect a cartoon character and expect him to deal with real world problems.He can't fulfill expectations. No human being can!Bill Katz was a guest on our radio show. He's been around a lot longer than me. Today, he posted something sobering about Obama:"I was struck by the photos of Mr. Obama at his press conference yesterday, with his "team" behind him. All those gray-haired white guys. It looked like something out of...Bushdom. I wouldn't have been shocked to see Dick Cheney walk across the stage.The moral: "Change we can believe in" is quickly giving way to solving real problems with real solutions, regardless of the yearnings of "the world" or even moveon.org."I was struck by BO's constant references to how tough it's all going to be.It won't be easy. This is going to be hard. Don't expect miracles. This is what "yes we can" sounds like these days!Again, the good news is that Obama ran a perfect campaign. He was so good at reading from the teleprompter. It was all style with zero substance!The bad news is that Obama created a character that he can't live up to. The Oval Office is about making incredibly difficult decisions that generate dissent.Welcome to the real world, specially those of you who voted for change!  
