It happened just recently. The manager from this backpacker hostel sent an email, declining my booking, and accusing me for having a &amp;quot;clearly hostile personality&amp;quot;. Hear my story: I sent an enquiry to this hostel, requesting a female-only dorm. The manager sent back an email to me, requesting for a credit card details so that they would secure the booking. Mr John, the manager, said he would not charge directly to the card, and full payment needs to be made on arrival. Then I submitted a carddetail. [I've got a card in NZ, for a few hundreds of NZD which I use to book all tours and transportations, and of course, hostels]. He then sent an email saying that my card was declined [should be because my total bookings exceed that amount].  That's when I suspect what was going on and ask him what actually happened. Because he said he would not charge the card, but just for the garantee. I then typed: &amp;quot;then why did you charge my card back then? [you wouldn't know that card is over limit unless you have tried charging right?--then what amount did u put?]Sorry if I ask too many questions...but please just clarify for transparency ;)Thanks,&amp;quot;  and the reply I got was not merely a clarification but a harassment:&amp;quot;we check card to make sure it can be charged then decline it.i have now cancelled your booking as you would not be suitable person for this backpacker as you have a clearly hostile personality which does not mix with a friendly backpacker environment.cheers-john at nextstop.&amp;quot; This ruined my good impression I started to have towards kiwi (New Zealand people) All I did was asking for a clarification of what he did to my credit card details. The process of giving the card details is not even secure...and if you read my letter, I was not being any hostile to him. I feel HARASSED by John, the manager from Next Stop Dunedin Backpackers.  --i have contacted ANZ to check the transaction, the bank said they actually charged 46$ and have not reimbursed back--this is a bad sign--I'm so upset T__T
