Now we are hearing from the next in line for government help, Chrysler and GM saying that they need billions to keep from having to file bankruptcy.  Don&amp;#8217;t you people see what is going on here?  First it was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac&amp;#8230;..getting a bale out.  Then it was AIG insurance, and now it is the Big Three Auto Makers, though tonight on Fox I didn&amp;#8217;t hear of Ford mentioned.  But here is the problem here people.  Hand-outs make for people who get the welfare mentality, and if we help out the auto-makers, then get ready because the next one in line will suddenly show up and start demanding that the government bale them out also.  Where is this all going to end?  It will end with the United States and her citizens going totally and completely bankrupt, with no way to help anyone.  The taxpayers pockets are not bottomless.  We cannot and do not want to do this.  Let this go into bankruptcy.   We cannot keep doing this.  Bankruptcy laws were put in place to protect this from happening.  If the big three file bankruptcy, sure there will be those who lose their jobs, but, the downsizing and trimming of all the fluff that comprises the big three will be gone, and the three will be more efficient and better equipped to face the future.  Right now for GM there is an amount of about 1600 dollars per car to pay for the benefits of the workers.  Honda, who has American plants, and has American workers has only about 250 per car to pay for employees benefits, and Honda is doing pretty good.  Bankruptcy, is not always a bad thing.  It can help companies who are out of control, get their control back.  As for the government helping here?   I say no.  The government should stay the hell out of this, and every other one coming down the pike.  Because people, mark my words here&amp;#8230;.there are others, if we keep going down this road.   God Bless America God Bless our troops always God Bless my readers, my listeners on BTR and my viewers on You tube&amp;#8230;.  -Robert- 
