By Bob Massi Attorney/FOX News Legal Analyst In January 2009, a new administration enters the White House, bringing with them the ideals, obligations, and promises that come with any change in leadership. The publics expectations for a new administration are high and range across many issues: the troops abroad, the need for energy independence, concern for the environment. But there is no doubt that the economic crisis imperiling the American dream is the most pressing order of business. In the wake of imploding financial institutions, the average citizen has been hit with an economic landslide that has crushed dreams of a comfortable retirement, steamrolled the proud achievements of small business owners, and decimated the promise of financial security for the middle class. In short, the American Dream of financial success and a comfortable life through hard work and careful planning is flirting with extinction.  There has been a lot of talk about the greedy Wall Street executives that prospered as Main Street suffered, and there is no doubt we must take a long, hard look at the types of oversight applied to those we trust with our investment dollars. Although I do not believe that big government should step in to run our industries through legislation, I do believe some type of regulation is crucial. But no government should legislate morality and so I also believe that the American public must play a critically role as a catalyst for a larger change that will do more to shore up our shaky financial systems more permanently than any multi-billion dollar bailout. It is up to the citizens of this country to set the tone for consequences for those who violate the moral code of our society. People who commit petty robbery are sentenced to prisons, yet the corporations and executives who profit at the expense of small investors, pension holders and homeowners are rescued&amp;#8211;even rewarded&amp;#8211;as those who have been damaged are told they must make sacrifices and continue to struggle on. The tide of damaging greed that has breached our defenses and swept away a lifetime of gradual gains and small, but important, successes for millions of citizens has also swamped the moral compass of our society. Consider the message sent by the actions of beleaguered insurance giant AIG: Just days after the firm&amp;#8217;s government-sponsored $85 billion bailout (which has recently ballooned to a $150 billion dollar bailout), AIG held a week-long retreat for company executives at the &amp;#8220;exclusive&amp;#8221; St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, CA. Records show that the insurer spent almost $500,000 on perks for its associates in a single week, According to the receipt from the St. Regis, the eight-day company retreat was a lavish one &amp;#8212; $139,000 was spent on hotel rooms, while even more money &amp;#8212; $147,301 &amp;#8212; was spent on banquets. Another $23,380 was spent on undisclosed spa treatments and another $6,939 was spent on golf. A full $9,980 was spent on room service and food and cocktails at the hotel lounge. That a corporation chose to offer a lavish retreat for its best producers in the face of precarious business is not necessarily so surprising in the world of corporate culture. But I am disappointed in the salesmen and women who chose to participate in this blatant display of denial. What sacrifice were they making? Skipping a massage? Having one less round of golf? The participants at this conference were not big corporate executives; but they measured their success in the face of economic disaster by how much a bankrupt company was willing to spend on them. I dont begrudge anyone making a lot of money. Thats what the American dream is built on. But when we have high ranking men and women executives who literally drain millions of dollars from companies and get the direct benefit, while stocks decline and people who are making minimum wage lose jobs, we must reconsider what we believe about parity and true achievement in this country. And make no mistake: the problem is not solely on Wall Street. Its not just bankers and Fortune 500 CEOs that are guilty of seemingly boundless greed. It is far more pervasive. Athletes, actors, even 15-year-old Disney stars, all rake in hundreds of millions of dollars annually in salaries, endorsements and merchandising. Many of these highly paid folks are unproven commodities who claim success based purely on acquisition of wealth and have become admired by society based solely on the material trappings they have acquired. What we must realize is that we, as the general population, and avid consumers of celebrity of all kinds, play a significant part in this equation. The Baby Boomer generation has been unparalleled at perpetrating greed and materialism. For years, our economy has run on the notion that success based on money is far more desirable than success based on values. When people can justify actions like these, there is something wrong with the moral fiber of this country. I have to think the participants at AIGs retreat were smart individuals. For them to believe that a bailout was going to cure the problem was like believing aspirin is going to cure a brain tumor. In fact, while solving the economic crisis, is something that I will leave to people smarter than me, I completely disagree with the bailout. I believe that this country needs to be humbled, and face and subdue its greed. I believe we should be prepared to have to suffer this for our children. I dont want to have to explain to my grandkids why an athlete makes $100 million over five years, while the teacher who teaches him every day, or the nurse at the hospital cant get a raise. As a lawyer that serves a largely middle class population  but also reports on the most high-profile cases in the countryI see every day that what the average American does is just as important to the fabric of society, as the daily activities of many executives, politicians, and athletes. And so as the next president takes office, and begins to repair Americas economy, I want all of us to hold him, and all of our lawmakers and law-enforcers, to the morals, values, and standards that are meant to define our great country, but that seem to have become as eroded as the value of our retirement accounts. The people must send a message: through lawyers, elected officials and all the way to the highest office in the country, that greed cannot trump law and morality and we will no longer tolerated corporate disregard for individuals in the interest of pure profit. We must never forget that the United States of America was founded on the notion of individual rights and the promise that all citizens are created equal. You must remember that where your rights stop, another other persons rights begin, and none of us are entitled to special privileges or benefits until we have honestly earned them. Share This Posted in Politics&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;     
