Rating Fifth Third Bancorp: A Zombie of a Different Kind Following my report on the viability of the top 12 U.S. banks, a number of readers have suggested that I missed Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB). Im happy to report that it wasnt an oversight: The reality is that Fifth Third  with $120 billion in assets  didnt quite make the cut, since its actually not one of the top 12 U.S. banks. But given the high level of reader interest in our report (which ran Wednesday), I thought it was worth a look. Alas, while it isnt one of the top 12 banks, Fifth Third is another Zombie, lurking in the undergrowth, seeking new victims (investors). A regional bank based in Cincinnati, Fifth Third has operations in the Midwest, most notably in Ohio and Michigan. It also has some operations in Florida. At first glance, it looks like SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) or Regions Financial Corp. (RF), both of which I classified as Walking Wounded, one of the four ratings I created to classify the banks health, and the rating thats a notch higher than the dreaded zombie label, which was affixed to the worst banks in the group. (The ratings, from worst to first, are: Zombie, Walking Wounded, Risky but Proud, and Hidden Gems.) However, while the pattern of Fifth Thirds 2008 operations was similar to SunTrust's and Regions', the Ohio banks results were significantly worse. Both Regions and Fifth Third reported losses for 2008 ($5.6 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively) after substantial goodwill write-offs. But Fifth Third also notched a $1.2 billion loss for 2008  before goodwill write-offs, while Regions Financial made a $300 million profit. Fifth Third has slashed its quarterly dividend to a nominal 1 cent per share. There are, however, some positive aspects to note. For instance, much of Fifth Thirds fourth-quarter loss was due to its transferring $1.3 billion of troubled loans to held-for-sale status, causing an immediate write-off that worsened published results, compared to its peers. On balance, however, Fifth Thirds situation is worse enough than Regions  its closest Big-12 analogue  that I concluded belonged in the Zombie category, as opposed to the Walking Wounded. Having said that, however, let me say that I have considerable sympathy for the bank and its management team. Citigroup Inc.s (C) zombification came from unintelligent aggression over a period of 30 years, inventing many of the current financial crisis most-toxic products (such as auction rate preferred stock). And Bank of America Corp.s (BAC) zombification came from  not one, but two  catastrophically foolish acquisitions within a year: Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Inc. In Fifth Thirds case, there was no malice  Fifth Third did not invent any of the unsound idiocies that have caused global financial markets to collapse, nor did it go on an aggressive acquisition binge. Fifth Third was simply concentrated in two of the most economically troubled states  Ohio and Michigan. In early 2008, Ohio had the highest rate of mortgage defaults in the United States  not because of its speculative frenzy in 2005-06, but because it had an exceptionally high proportion of borrowers whose ability to afford a mortgage was marginal. U.S. President Barack Obamas stimulus plan, targeted towards lower-income households and hard-hit areas, may help Fifth Thirds business more than it will help other banks, in which case Fifth Third could edge back towards recovery. But as it stands now, the bank has one foot in the grave, qualifying it for Zombie status. http://seekingalpha.com/article/121874-rating-fifth-third-bancorp-a-zombie-of-a-different-kind?source=wl_sidebar
