Treasury close to agreeing housing plan By Krishna Guha in Washington - Published: February 13 2009 00:55   Last updated: February 13 2009 00:55 US bank stocks rallied on Thursday after reports suggested the administration was homing in on an anti-foreclosure plan that would involve the government subsidising a reduction in monthly payments for overstretched borrowers. The Treasury department refused to confirm or deny the accuracy of the Reuters report, which said the relief would be available to all borrowers who met a needs-based test. Officials said the plan had not been finalised. However, they told the Financial Times the government was likely to use $50bn set aside from the troubled asset relief programme to meet monthly payment reductions. The Treasury could provide relief to banks with portfolios of problem mortgages by structuring the scheme in a way that provides financial support for lenders to offset some of the lost payments. People involved in the process said the Treasury was likely to base its policy on a scheme championed by Sheila Bair, head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This plan reduces monthly outgoings to a maximum of 38 per cent of income, which may become the standard for the government scheme. Under the original FDIC plan, pioneered at IndyMac, a bank that was taken over by regulators before it was sold to investors, loan modifications would only be offered to borrowers whose loans were in arrears. Policymakers were concerned about this rule giving an incentive to fall behind on payments in order to qualify for relief. The attraction of a standard affordability test is that it would not encourage people to fall behind. The downside is that it would involve the government subsidising some borrowers who would have stayed on top of their loans anyway  increasing the overall cost to taxpayers. Ms Bair had proposed incentivising banks to cut monthly payments by agreeing to share the loss if the loan subsequently went back into default. But officials at the Treasury and the Federal Reserve argued for upfront subsidies, on the grounds that the cost to the government would be easier to quantify. Experts say the foreclosure relief programme is also likely to involve cash payments for servicers to increase their capacity and incentive to modify loans used to back securities sold to investors. The main uncertainty is whether there will also be measures to reduce outstanding principal in cases where the value of a mortgage now exceeds the value of the underlying home. Fed research suggests this phenomenon  also called negative equity  is likely to be a big driver of defaults and foreclosures, though other analysts in the government disagree. The Fed recently adopted a standard to favour writing down the principal on loans it co-owns where the loan to value ratio exceeds 125 per cent. George.
