Most students get into debt, but a few simple budgeting sums can ensure things dont get out of hand, says Amy McLellanRelated ArticlesSearch Search GoIndependent.co.uk WebBookmark &amp;amp; ShareBudgeting: some are born to it, others have it thrust upon them as overdraft charges start to bite. The key is to get on top of things right from the beginning. Work out exactly what youve got coming in  student loan, any grants and bursaries, parental contribution  and then tot up your outgoings. As a rough guide you should budget between 6,500 and 7,500 per academic year to cover living costs such as rent, energy, food, clothes, books, transport and socialising. Most universities have online budget planners to get you started.Remember the hidden costs of livingDo you know how much a load of laundry costs to wash and dry? What about a TV licence? Make sure your budget includes insurance too: student digs can be targeted by opportunistic criminals.Think long termDont get carried away when your student loan hits your bank account. The first few weeks of term will quickly make a dent in the lump sum as rent gets paid, book lists arrive and a round of giddy socialising begins. It looks like a lot of money when you get it in September but it has to last until January, warns Barbara Wooden, senior welfare adviser at Northumbria University.Spend wiselyShop with friends to share the costs of common items such as cooking oil, salt and loo roll and steer clear of expensive brands: go for supermarket value ranges. Learn to cook, too: frequent takeaways add to your waistline and quickly subtract from your bank account. Make good use of college and public libraries rather than buying books; if you have to make purchases, go down the second-hand route.Stay informedMake sure you know whats going in and out of your bank account to avoid nasty surprises. Students dont live a nine-to-five lifestyle so register for internet and telephone banking so you can get access to your accounts at times that suit you, says Catherine McGrath, director of current accounts at Lloyds TSB.Ditch the carFrom petrol to insurance, its a crippling expense. Most student accommodation is within walking or cycling distance of the main campus and even those further afield can take advantage of discounted student travel on buses and trains.Make a little extraMost students end up working part-time to supplement their income. Most jobs are minimum wage but look out for better paying opportunities: some universities pay 10 an hour for students willing to take on admin or ambassadorial roles, while private tuition can pay even more. The recommended maximum is 16 hours a week.Dont struggle in silenceIf your debts are getting out of control, speak to your university student-finance advisers. They will be able to help with budgeting.Interesting? Click here to explore further
