The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.Released : Tuesday, September 09, 2008 4:00 AMSep. 9--Jennifer Stevenson didn't realize she was getting a new cell phone carrier until she noticed the bright pink T-Mobile sign on the building at 4161 Sycamore Dairy Road.Stevenson thought maybe SunCom had moved. But the Fort Bragg resident soon learned that the sign on the building -- and the merchandise inside -- has changed as a result of T-Mobile's $2.4 billion acquisition of SunCom, which was first announced in September and completed in February.T-Mobile USA announced Monday that it had officially launched the T-Mobile brand and service in former SunCom markets throughout North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.'Our commitment to customers, existing and new, is that you will find a happy home with T-Mobile,' the company's chief customer and operations officer, Sue Nokes, said in a statement. 'We've invested millions to build out local networks. And we have a proven track record of bringing dynamic new offerings to market that make it easy and convenient to keep important people close -- no matter how near or far they are.'Since the acquisition, T-Mobile has invested more than $100 million in strengthening the network in the Carolinas and Puerto Rico to give customers a stronger signal in a wider area, according to a T-Mobile.Former SunCom customers will be receiving detailed information on their transition to T-Mobile this month. Meantime, general information has been posted for former SunCom customers on the Web site verygoodday.info.'As a SunCom customer, you automatically became a T-Mobile customer,' the site says. 'No need to do a thing. You keep the same number and, for most, the same phone.'The site does note that all Hiptop device customers need to upgrade their phones to a new Sidekick.T-Mobile's Web site lists 33 retail stores in North Carolina. In addition to one on Sycamore Dairy Road, which was busy Monday afternoon, there are locations in Lumberton and Laurinburg.Mohammed Masood, with Clinton-based CBA Mobile, used to sell SunCom at Cross Creek Mall but has switched gears to T-Mobile. CBA's kiosk in the mall's Macy's wing has already unveiled its T-Mobile wares.Masood said a second CBA kiosk in center court is likely to open Monday. CBA Mobile also has a location in west Fayetteville near in the same Raeford Road shopping center as Wal-Mart.To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.Provider:Knight-Ridder / Tribune Business News / Fayetteville Observer, The (Fayetteville, NC)
