THE Bank of Scotland's historic headquarters on the Mound, dating back two centuries, will survive any takeover by Lloyds TSB, it was promised last week, with the building serving as the Scottish headquarters for the combined bank. But major players in the Scottish art world are wondering  and worrying  what will happen to what is contained inside it.The bank's collection of Scottish art, showcased in the grand Victorian rooms, is older than the building. With about 100 artworks, it ranges from 18th-century masterpieces by Sir Henry Raeburn through to works by the Scottish colourist, Samuel Peploe. In recent years, HBOS has also been a serious customer for contemporary Scottish art. With the Mound's refurbishment, the bank set about building a modern corporate collection under the guidance of Sir Brian Ivory, a bank director and chairman of the National Galleries of Scotland. This spring, for example, the bank bought Echo, by the painter Alison Watt, for a reported 50,000.'People are quietly wondering what's going to happen,' said Richard Ingleby, director of the Ingleby Gallery, which represents Watt and several other artists whose work has been bought by HBOS. 'It's good stuff, thoughtfully bought, the way it's been put together in there.'Lloyds TSB, like HBOS, has been a major sponsor of Scottish arts, but almost uniquely  certainly unlike HBOS and its major industry rival, the Royal Bank of Scotland  it has no corporate collection worthy of the name.In Susan Rice, the arts-minded Lloyds TSB Scotland chief executive, 'they have got one of the most visually aware bankers that ever walked the planet', Mr Ingleby said. But the company is known for driving a hard bargain in sponsorship deals and its corporate taste tends towards the populist  it is currently backing the exhibition of Vanity Fair photographs at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery and supports the landscape painting competition overseen by the artist Jolomo.The Mound building reopened in 2006 after a major refit following the Bank of Scotland's merger with Halifax. Top Scottish architect Malcolm Fraser was hired to 'rediscover' the 19th century rooms.HBOS also opened a new museum on the Mound, with displays that have included 1 million in cancelled 20 notes. Lloyds TSB Scotland has its own company museum, at Roswell in Dumfries, in the cottage where the Rev Henry Duncan first took deposits from his parishioners, laying the foundations for the Trustee Savings Bank, the institution which merged with Lloyds in 1995.Would these museums merge, or compete, in an environment where cost-savings are likely to be the order of the day? What will happen, on a much larger scale, to arts sponsorship in Scotland, where HBOS invests 1.5 million a year, and Lloyds TSB slightly more? A Lloyds TSB spokeswoman could give no guarantees yesterday over a deal that might not be signed before the beginning of next year, if at all. But she said of the HBOS art collection: 'I don't think people need to be worried. The Scottish history and culture of banking is very important to the new entity.'Rice, a previous chairwoman of the Edinburgh International Book Festival, has stressed her bank's long-term commitment to the arts after it has managed to ride the financial crisis better than many. She has also said the two institutions have quite similar cultures.Already, however, the question of how sponsorship might work has gone up for discussion at group level, the spokeswoman said. For example, both banks are major donors to the National Galleries of Scotland, with six-figure sponsorship deals tied to different exhibitions.HBOS put more than 400,000 into its TotalArt deal to back big shows by Andy Warhol, and this November, the German artist Gerhard Richter. The bank sponsored the Degas exhibition in 2003, and gave money to the Weston Link project revamping the facilities at the Mound sites. Lloyds backed a year of photography at the galleries in 2003-4, including the Mario Testino exhibition, along with The Age of Titian in 2004. It sponsored an Icons series including shows by Warhol, Francis Bacon and Henri Cartier-Bresson. How would such deals be structured if both were in the same 'Lloyds Halifax' group? An NGS spokeswoman said it was taking a 'wait and see attitude'.'We have to hope that given our good relationship with both organisations, that will continue in some form or other,' she said. 'Maybe they will have a bigger budget  who knows?'However, it is HBOS's contemporary buying programme that will be most closely watched. 'They commissioned leading living Scottish artists to make new work, made for the building,' said Mr Ingleby. 'They did it seriously.'It ranged from works by painter Callum Innes to a film by Dalziel + Scullion, and two sculptures by William Turnbull. 'They were planning to make it an ongoing thing,' said Mr Ingleby. 'It wasn't just a decoration, filling up the space. It was to move around and go out on loans.'The importance of corporate collections to Scottish art has been underlined by the Fleming Collection, one of the finest private collections of Scottish art and a London showcase for the country's best artists. Originally conceived as a corporate collection in 1968 for Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd in the City of London, since 2000 it has belonged to The Fleming-Wyfold Art Foundation, made safe under a plan conceived years in advance. By contrast, Lloyds' boardroom art is described in derisory terms by dealers as 'frankly terrible', though Rice's own collection is said to include works by the Turner Prize winner, Howard Hodgkin.The landscape prize jointly run with Jolomo, the popular painter John Lowrie Morrison, may be aimed at supporting old-fashioned painting skills, but it has not endeared sponsor Lloyds TSB to contemporary art aficionados. A recent show in the bank's George Street headquarters was devoted to art inspired by the Olympics  it is a major supporter of London 2012. From Edinburgh's leading contemporary gallery, doggerfisher, HBOS has already bought works by well-regarded Scottish contemporary talents including Moyna Flannigan, Louise Hopkins, and Nathan Coley.The gallery's director, Susanna Beaumont, said: 'Who knows what will happen? I don't want to second-guess what they will do.'But she added: 'It's hugely important that something is headquartered here that shows an understanding and support of what happens here.' Raeburn and Nasmyth the masters in fine HBOS galleryTHE HBOS collection predictably includes its fair share of bankers' portraits, but they are a cut above the average. Works by Sir Henry Raeburn include a magnificent full length portrait of Henry Dundas, the first Viscount Melville, a bank governor from 1790-1811, and another of Sir William Forbes of Pitsligo, banker and friend of Sir Walter Scott. In more modern terms there is a double portrait of Sir Jack Shaw and Sir Bob Reid, governors, by the sought-after Israeli artist Avigdor Arikha, who also painted the Queen Mother. There is Lord Clydesmuir, chairman of the British Linen Bank, incorporated into the Bank of Scotland, by Alberto Morrocco; and former governor Bruce Patullo, by Stephen Conroy. 'They are part of the identity of a very important piece of Scottish history. They do show a capitalist organisation that was aware of the arts and willing to commission artists,' said Duncan Thomson, former keeper of the Scottish National Portrait Gallery. 'It's a fascinating collection, with some really major paintings.'Predictably, there are also a lot of views of Edinburgh, frequently featuring the proud Mound building, but they include landscapes by the Scottish master Alexander Nasmyth. The collection includes works by contemporary artists, not least Echo, by the painter Alison Watt, which was bought earlier this year for a reported 50,000.The bank commissioned new works by Scottish artists for the newly refurbished head-quarters on the Mound, ranging from works by Callum Innes to a film by the Scottish artists Matthew Dalziel and Louise Scullion, and two sculptures by the Scottish artist William Turnbull.HBOS's tie-up with Lloyds could put the Scottish bank's investment in contemporary work at risk, discovers Tim Cornwell
