- The Most Powerful Woman on earth, Angela Merkel, is hell bent on challenging the Happiest Countries on Earth, such as Vanuatu, Costa Rica, Columbia and Dominica of Panama. Countries which have always featured high on the Happiest Planet Index. In Aug 2008, Forbes Magazine announced their 11th annual list of the top 100 most powerful women in the world. The magazine's criteria for power are based on a composite of public profile, how often the women were mentioned by the paparazzi and how much financial clout the women wielded. Women however, hold only 15% of the top corporate jobs. Less than 3% of USA's largest companies have female chief executives and only one out of six company directors are female. The magazine has estimated that the women on the list have command of something like $26 trillion dollars. The women appear to be defined by their jobs, rather than by who they are. It is also reported that some collect an annual pay of $11 million plus. Past career, job title, accomplishments, as well as the amount of money the woman controls, are all taken into account. The magazine drew comparisons between the different financial industries the women operate in, in order to attempt to assess the women's position on an even playing field.  Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany, tops the list in 2008 for the third time in a row  Second was Sheila Bair, head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp  PepsiCo's Indra Nooyi came in third, gaining two positions over last year  Angela Braly head of the health insurance WellPoint retained fourth position, same as last year  Condoleezza Rice, U.S. Secretary of State came in seventh  Ho Chin, Temasek Holdings and wife of the Prime Minister of Singapore, was No. 8, dropping from 3rd place last year  Gail Kelly, head of Australian Westpac Bank came in No. 11  Hilary Clinton, with the highest media profile, ranked 28, dropping three places from last year  Oprah Winfrey ranked 36, dropping all the way from 8th position last year  First Lady Linda Bush ranked 44 Angela Merkel has been nicknamed the 'Iron Lady', following in the footsteps of ex British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, even down to having a similar agenda. Vice Premiere of the People's Republic of China, Wu Yi, who held third place last year, is also known as the 'Iron Lady'. Wu Yi, having been in the top rankings, since 2004, has dropped from view this year. Maybe it's because she resigned her position in March. Angela Merkel is crusading to get the governments of the world to join a Tax Cartel, in order that a heavy-handed fist can be brought to bear on all tax havens. The recent purchase, by Merkel, of confidential client data of alleged tax evaders, stolen from a Lichtenstein bank, has highlighted Merkel's crusade. It is alleged the Lichtenstein bank sold the same material several times over, netting the bank a tidy profit. As tax havens play an important role in driving the tax rate down in high-taxed countries, Merkel's crusade could cost the world more than her crusade is worth. Without the alternative competition afforded through tax havens taxes would soar.About YouMe Support Foundation Dr Wendy and her husband Rick are CEO's of YouMe Support Foundation (http://youmesupport.org). Through a Blue Moon Opportunity, world first, they are offering Seachange Lodge Resort (http://seachangelodge.com) as an Internet Raffle. This could be your one chance to completely change your lifestyle. It is worth a few minutes of your time to check it out at http://winaresort.com
