the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans ruled that fraud cases previously brought in a Texas state court against Enron's former leaders and more than a dozen financial institutions accused of playing a role in the company's collapse should be allowed to proceed.In late 2001, the Houston law firm of Fleming &amp;amp; Associates filed seven securities-related lawsuits in Texas state courts on behalf of several hundred clients against various Enron-related defendants, according to the documents. The federal court, which already had jurisdiction over various Enron-related cases, known as the 'Newby' cases, then issued an order prohibiting Fleming from filing any new Enron-related actions without leave of the court. In 2005, Fleming's leave to file lawsuits against Enron-related defendants for fraud in Texas courts was denied by the federal court. Former Enron lenders, which could now face claims, include Bank of America (nyse: BAC - news - people ), Credit Suisse First Boston, Barclays (nyse: BCS - news - people ), JP Morgan Chase (nyse: JPM - news - people ) and Lehman Brothers (nyse: LEH - news - people ). According to the court's ruling, the statue of limitations has been reached for some claims. However, claims with a four-year statue of limitations will be allowed to proceed. The claims for common law fraud and fraud-on-the-market, statutory fraud, and aiding and abetting common law fraud will also be allowed to proceed to the district court.Enron's book-cooking corporate scandal is what most remember about the company that was once recognized as the seventh-largest in the world. Hazily explained sales growth contributed to its scale; between 1996 and 2000, Enron reported an increase in sales to $100.8 billion, from $13.3 billion. In December 2001, Enron filed for bankruptcy after publicly announcing in October that it had incurred a $683 million loss and was taking a $1 billion after-tax charge in the third quarter of 2001. When reports surfaced in November 2006 that Enron was on the brink of implosion, the company's stock went from $90 per share to just pennies in a single day. Shareholders lost their shirts and eventually the guilty executives lost their freedom, including the now deceased former Chairman Ken Lay, who was sentenced to 20 to 30 years in prison. Andrew Fastow, the chief financial officer of Enron, pleaded guilty to fraud in 2004 and is now serving a six-year prison sentence. In the 2006 trial that skewered the company's culpable management, Jeffrey Skilling, Enron's former chief, was sentenced to 24 years and four months in prison, and fined $45 million in 2006. (See ) Enron claimed bankruptcy in 2001, but it is still a company, and its new business is settling its old debts. There were substantial assets when the deflated company filed and Enron currently has just under 100 employees and one office in Houston. Meanwhile, on Monday U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon in Houston ruled that plaintiffs in another Enron lawsuit were entitled to $688 million in legal fees--the largest award in a securities case. Eligible shareholders whose Enron holdings became worthless when the company went bankrupt will receive $7.2 billion in settlements under a distribution plan approved by the federal court.
