In yesterday's New York Times 'Week in Review,' Patrick Healy wrote a piece headlined, 'Let's Call a Lie A Lie...Finally. ' It was not, however, a piece by a political reporter urging his peers to call a lie made by a candidate a lie (I, too, was fooled by the 'Let's'). Rather it was a piece by a political reporter observing that 'once considered politically out of bounds, the word 'lie' --stated blunty and unapologetically -- has had its unveiling in the 2008 campaign' by, largely, the Obama campaign asserting that the other guy is lying, often.Healy does not directly address what a campaign repoter's role should be in dealing with candidates' lies and/or accusations that their opponent is lying (what can we possibly do?) but he does, I suppose, show us what he considers his role to be:On Thursday, for instance, an Obama spokesman denounced, as 'another flat-out lie from a dishonorable campaign,' a McCain television advertisement citing a newspaper report that Franklin D. Raines, the former leader of now-disgraced Fannie Mae, was advising Mr. Obama on housing issues.I'm just giving you a 'for instance.' You know, of how one campaign responded to a claim made in an opponent's ad. You know. One campaign ran an ad claiming one thing. The other campaign called it a lie. On to my next paragraph...Healy did find an expert who addressed the obvious 'What now?' aspect of Healy's overall observation that, Wow, the 'L-word' is getting used a lot lately by one of the campaigns:'When politicians ignore a lie and it doesn't go away, they can be tainted, and when they deny it, they can sound defensive,' said Geoff Stone, a University of Chicago law professor and an informal adviser to Mr. Obama. 'Americans need someone who many people watch who has credibility and can be an independent arbiter -- a Walter Cronkite, say -- and there isn't one.'Today's Murrow or Cronkite... Someone who many people watch who can be an independent arbiter. Riiiight. But... who?A few pages further along in the 'Week in Review' (in a column by Frank Rich):You know the press is impotent at unmasking this truthiness when the hardest-hitting interrogation McCain has yet faced on television came on The View. Barbara Walters and Joy Behar called him on several falshoods, including his endlessly repeated fantasy that Palin opposed earmarks for Alaska. Behar used the word 'lies' to his face.'...In our news culture, Behar, a stand-up comic by profession, looms as the new Edward R. Murrow.'Posted by Liz Cox Barrett  at 07:48 AM   Permalink   Comment on this postFor anyone who has ever asked himself, 'What's David Brooks thinking?'Brooks...admits he is something of a throwback. 'This is going to sound pretentious, but I try to be a 1950s public intellectual in 2008, in 800 words.'Just for fun, fill in the blanks, but imagine it's Brooks's co-New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd talking: 'This is going to sound ____, but I try to be a ____, in 800 words.'Posted by Liz Cox Barrett  at 07:35 AM   Permalink   Comment on this postFri, 19 Sep 2008An ad for a panel hosted by Mediabistro:Posted by Megan Garber  at 04:09 PM   Permalink   Comments(1)Call it the Goldilocks approach to political journalism. Many campaign-related articles we read are too cold (informative, maybe, but not terribly readable); many others are too hot (readable, maybe, but not terribly informative). The ones that strike a balance in their temperature--like 'Moo,' Timothy Egan's masterful treatment of Sarah Palin's gubernatorial record, currently the most-emailed story on nytimes.com--are, to borrow a description, just right.Posted by Megan Garber  at 03:43 PM   Permalink   Comment on this postThe Associated Press retracted two government-issued photographs last night after a photographer in Texas alerted the agency that the photos in question appeared to be doctored.Bob Owen, chief photographer of the San Antonio Express-News, notified the AP that the photos of two deceased soldiers, who died in Iraq on Sept. 14, were nearly identical. Upon examining the photos, Owens noticed that everything except for the soldiers face, name, and rank was the same. The most glaring similarity, Owen told CJR, was that the camouflage patterns of the two uniforms were perfectly identical.After inspecting the photographs, the AP confirmed that the images were, indeed, Photoshopped, and issued eliminations on the two photos.The elimination reads:The content of this image has been digitally altered and does not accurately reflect the scene. No other version of the photo is available.The photos were released by the U.S. Army at Fort Stewart in Georgia. Officials at the base could not be reached for comment.Id like to think that the media holds itself pretty accountable and we try really hard to keep high standards, Owen said. Obviously the army, and the government, doesnt see anything wrong with that [photo altering] at all.Posted by Megan McGinley  at 02:16 PM   Permalink   Comment on this postNewly posted on Slate is an essay--a kind of analysis-meets-memoir--about Growing Up Alaskan. It's a nice piece, evocative and full of rich detail, that paints a portrait of both the particularities and peculiarities of a culture that, apparently, it's now our patriotic duty to be fascinated by. The essay is by turns touching and probing, and certainly worth reading.Which is perhaps why Slate's editors slotted the essay as today's lead story, giving it prominent play on the site's homepage, complete with a massive photo and a snappy, attention-grabbing headline:Except...all the promises of 'weirdness'(!) and 'strange'ness(!) and all that are a little too snappy. The piece doesn't, in the end, mock Alaska; its point isn't to point out 'how strange Alaskans really are'; rather, like an episode of Northern Exposure that plays out in prose, its point is to celebrate Alaska's quirkiness. And ultimately to celebrate what the essay's author, Jim Albrecht, deems a cultural 'sense of responsibility for the welfare of one's neighbors.'And yet: 'Bridge to Weirdville' (ha!). And the glib pronouncement that 'you have no idea how strange Alaskans really are' (ha!). Followed by another telling tease: 'All the Juiciest Bits from the New Dick Cheney Book' (ha! and: ooh...!).From a marketing perspective, anyway, this is great packaging. How could any reader not give the piece a click? What red-blooded American wouldn't want to learn more about the kookiness and laughable craziness of our tundra-dwelling countrymen?Except, of course, the piece doesn't match the packaging. The home page promise of Alaska-attacking hilarity is greeted by, alas, a relatively sober, if occasionally amusing, essay on the landing. Looks like we might have another case of page-view sellout on our hands.Posted by Megan Garber  at 02:03 PM   Permalink   Comment on this postThe McCain campaign has a new ad out attacking Obama's legislative record. It begins with a voice-over:'On the biggest financial issue of the day,' the phantom voice declares, 'Barack Obama would not say if he supported or opposed the government-backed rescue of insurance giant AIG.'Well. The voice, it turns out, belongs to Fox News's Major Garrett. And, this morning, Politico's Michael Calderone reports, the network sent a cease-and-desist letter to the McCain campaign:'We demand that you immediately remove Mr. Garrett's voice from this ad. As Mr. Garrett is a non-partisan news correspondent covering the Obama campaign for Fox News, it is highly inappopriate [sic], among other things, of your campaign to use him in your ad.'One could point out a strain of irony in the indignant tone of the letter, particularly given the fact that the line between 'accountability journalism' and anti-Obama bias is a fine one in the Garrett comment in question. Still, though, kudos to Garrett et al for taking a stand against campaign stooge-ery.Posted by Megan Garber  at 01:02 PM   Permalink   Comment on this postPEJ releases research results that are fairly shocking: In the nine months leading up to the current Wall Street crisis, coverage of the economy'which includes themes such as gas prices, banking industry troubles, the housing crisis, and retail sales'filled only 9.3 percent of the total news hole. Andeven more shockingin the month leading up to the meltdown, 'press attention to the U.S. economy was at a low point for the year.' That low point would be 4.8 percent of the media newshole.By comparison? The week of August 18-24, Veepstakes speculationempty conjecture that, as Clint noted on Campaign Desk, was essentially meaningless in the endfilled a whopping 42 percent of the news hole.Posted by Megan Garber  at 12:11 PM   Permalink   Comment on this postIf you, as I did, thought that John McCain's appearance on The View last week was as awkward as the show's 'Red, White &amp;amp; View' segments could get...well, think again. Because, this Monday, the Ladies of the Curved Couch will host...Bill Clinton.Yep: Barbara and Bubba, side by side! Watch out, Senator McCain...your Awkward Moments Per View Segment world record could be in jeopardy!Clinton will ostensibly be guesting on the show to talk about the Clinton Global Initiative. (Remember that? The organization that's fighting AIDS in Africa and developing microfinance to fight poverty and founding schools in developing countries and generally making everyone forget about Monica Lewinsky? The organization that had everyone thinking Clinton was saving the world, or at least his own legacy, before 2008 primary antics made them think he might actually be more angry and petulant and possibly racist than he is messianic? Yeah, that thing.)But--this being The View, and all--Clinton probably won't end up spending much time talking about developing nations while on the couch with the Viewers. He will probably end up talking about Barack Obama. And, if the ladies are feeling extra-sassy, about where he stands on the 'boxers or briefs' debate.Either way, we can pretty ...
