This week the prime minister and his chancellor were fending off calls for a windfall tax on energy companies.Trade unions, a significant number of delegates and plenty of backbench Labour MPs want to see immediate cash help for disadvantaged and vulnerable householders this winter and kept up the pressure at the party conference in Manchester.Government ministers had been hoping that the turmoil in the financial markets, Brown's intervention to push for the takeover of HBOS by Lloyds TSB and the emergency ban on short selling of shares would take some of the heat out of the debate on energy prices.Yes, the conference was very interested in the ramifications of the global credit crisis - and the role of regulation - but that didn't mean that spiralling gas and electricity bills had been forgotten, though.At last week's Liberal Democrat party conference in Bournemouth there was plenty of debate about energy and environmental issues at fringe meetings but less from the platform than might have been expected.Opposition to coal and nuclear remains strong (though not universal) and it was clear that the party had not dropped its plans to scrap the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (Berr) to help bankroll lower taxes.More pervasive were the continuing complaints that individuals trying to 'green' their energy supply were underwhelmed by what was on offer in terms of grants for equipment and by the sort of price they could expect to get by selling power back to the electricity network.Back at the Labour conference, environment secretary Hilary Benn spent a lot of time insisting that going green and improving energy efficiency was still very high on the administration's agenda. Benn said: 'As the credit crunch and rising bills affect family budgets across the country, we're all taking another look at what really matters. And some people may well be asking: where does this leave going green and cutting carbon emissions?' Benn insisted: 'We don't have to choose between saving money on energy bills and saving the planet. We can do both. They both depend on taking the same steps. And it is low carbon, energy-efficient households and businesses that will be best placed to prosper.' The environment secretary is on the record as claiming that fuel bills could be reduced by about ?5 billion a year if lofts and cavity walls were insulated properly. Turning off appliances and lights would also help. 'Green policies are not about making life more difficult for people or raising money,' said Benn. 'On the contrary, our aim is to help and encourage people to save energy in the short term - and save money while they are doing it - and to help Britain to move to the low carbon economy we will need for our economic future.' Business secretary John Hutton was back banging the drum for a new-build nuclear programme last week.He said that the need for new reactors in the UK was 'a no-brainer' in respect of energy security but also in terms of jobs and the country's industrial economy. Insisted Hutton: 'Insecure international sources of energy underline the case for a diverse mix. We are determined to get new nuclear up and running as soon as possible - securing clean low carbon energy and helping to keep the UK's lights on.' He added: 'I know many manufacturers across the country already have the skills and expertise needed to build power stations, but more needs to be done to create and support a globally competitive UK supply chain focusing on high value added activities to take advantage of the UK and global nuclear renaissance.' He was also partly dismissive of a report from Fells Associates that predicted the UK was heading for possible rolling blackouts because replacement generation capacity was not being commissioned fast enough (see news, page 9).One of the authors of the report was professor Ian Fells, a long-time critic of government energy policy. The business secretary argued that: 'Fells understates what the government is already doing to secure our future supplies and increase our energy independence.' Hutton stressed: 'We do not underestimate the task we've got on our hands. Securing future energy supplies for the UK is a matter of national security and so we are not going to rule out any radical options.' Meanwhile, the government has metaphorically patted itself on the back after announcing the first auction of carbon trading allowances under the European Union's Emissions Trading Scheme.Treasury minister Angela Eagle claimed: 'The UK is leading the way across Europe in efforts to cut carbon emissions and ensure companies work now to put in place the long-term solutions to tackle climate change. Auctioning carbon allowances will create greater incentives for companies to reduce emissions and provide stability and transparency in this emerging market.' Roger Milne 
