If McCain had thought that playing the gender card would benefit his campaign, he was wrong. What made Hillary Clinton a dependable and ideal candidate was not the fact that she was a woman. Merely glimpsing at her political track record, one can see that she has had significant exposure to the national political scene  both in the White House and representing New York in the Senate. Palin, on the other hand, is not only a poor choice for a candidate, she is also a poor representation of the 21st century woman.That being said, Palin doesnt deserve all the slanders shes receiving, and claims like her inability to juggle a political career and a family are uncalled for. Such remarks are sexist and would not ever be considered had Palin been a man and head of the family. However, as I asserted previously, if McCain had only chosen Palin for the fact that shes a woman, it was a poor choice indeed.Palin is no means a substitute for Clinton. The only trait the two women share is that Palin also lacks the genetic property of a Y chromosome. Though some may be surprised to find Gloria Steinem, an avid feminist, vehemently opposing Palin, Steinems claims are not against Palin for what she represents but rather for Palins incompetence as a candidate for VP and for her stance on the issues. Palin has zero foreign policy experience, her title tax cutter is patently absurd considering that Alaska has no sales tax, deriving much of its revenue from oil profits. Furthermore, Steinem puts forth the claim that Palin is more of a show horse than a work horse.From what Ive seen of Palin, the two mantras that I associate with her are vote for a hockey mom and abstinence-only. The witty asides she delivers (like the only difference between a hockey mom and a pitbull is lipstick) only demean what it means to be a woman. I think that women who juggle having a career and a family do indeed face challenges on a day-to-day basis. I, however, dont believe that being able to do this automatically makes Palin capable of juggling serving the United States of America and a family. Just because Clinton can do it doesnt mean Palin can too.The repeated emphasis on Palins domesticity and easy maternal smile only irks me. The contrast between Palin and Clinton could not be any more stark  painting Clinton as a frigid she-wolf and Palin as Betty Crocker seems to be McCains tactic. The question is, can Betty Crocker really run the United States of America?The recent economic crisis only makes me more wary of Palin. In the span of a week, Lehman Brothers has filed for bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch has thrown in the towel by agreeing to be bought by Bank of America and even AIG, one of the biggest insurance companies in America, only exists today because of an $85 billion government bailout.What does Palin have to say to all this besides that its a mess and just needs some shakin up and fixin? Well, Palin, you better be ready to do some shakin up and fixin yourself. Considering that this is the same woman who admitted that the Iraq War is not one of her priorities, I think that America needs to brace itself for some shakin up of its own. Now lets just cross our fingers and hope that the Wall Street debacle is not a metaphor for the fate of our nation under a McCain/Palin administration.Maggie Liu is a member of the Class of 2012.
