[I have limited Internet connectivity -- duh -- and so I'm just going to experiment with posting a couple of photos really quickly. Later on I'll try to get a bunch more shots posted to the blog and explain what it is that we're looking at. Things are getting worse in Galveston. Only good news is that running water returned in the hotel this morning. Not hot, mind you, but still running. A cold shower never felt so good.]Previous: Not Quite Joel  Add Achenblog to Your SiteBe the first to know when there's a new installment of Achenblog! This widget is easy to add to your Web site, and it will update every time there's a new entry.CommentsPlease email us to report offensive comments.Fire in the flood, always seems so wrong. That's how the Grand Forks Herald went down (speaking of Pulitzer).Headed back for the others.Posted by: frostbitten   September 15, 2008 4:33 PMYikes. Hope you got some sleep, Joel.Posted by: Curmudgeon   September 15, 2008 4:41 PMThese are better than most shots I've seen on a half-dozen media slide shows. Good work. I'm forwarding them to my stilt-home friends in Cedar Key.Posted by: Shiloh   September 15, 2008 4:44 PMWhat a mess. Mother Nature beats up Father Time.Glad to hear you got a shower, Joel.Posted by: eidrib   September 15, 2008 4:58 PMIs the fire photo somewhere other than Galveston? The ground seems too hilly for a sandbar.It sounds as though Galveston will be mostly closed for months--the hospitals might reopen with the rest of the city off limits except to workers.Did the post-1900 raising of Galveston's ground level help reduce flooding this time?The Post's photographers have done a great job of getting into non-affluent Houston area neighborhoods.Posted by: Dave of the Coonties   September 15, 2008 5:01 PMIn an off-kit, ask the boodle move:I hold AIG life insurance. My original company -- had the policy since I turned 21 -- sold to AIG in about 1992. The Whole life policy has a significant chunk of savings change, which I skillfully ignore as it is my rainy, rainy, rainy (think Galveston) money.So, boodle-finance whizzes: what may happen to we policyholders of AIG paper?
