  Quoting from&amp;amp;nbsp; [germex] :   Hi Street, as I said in the beginning, the problem is so complex (and so impossible to analyze without looking at other subjects, too) that it is really impossible to describe.  As an example for the far reach of related subjects, look at (google) &amp;amp;quot;H.A.A.R.P.&amp;amp;quot; - what it stands for (officially) and what others have to say about it.&amp;amp;nbsp; Then look for comments on the hurricane Ike and what people have to say about it. There are clear statements, saying that this hurricane couldn&amp;#039;t have happened naturally. After that, you fill in the blanks...  P.S. And don&amp;#039;t forget what the Bible tells us about these times, and that a nuclear bomb and an expert pilot are still missing...   I would not use the Bible as quote, because all prophecies are based on analogy, and symbols, nobody can put his/her finger on it and say this is what the Bible predicts, only the trend and no specifics.       Our Newspaper headlines are full of the Lender&amp;#039;s woes over in the United States and its spillover to the United Kingdom, now that HBOS of Britain is in talks to be acquired by their competitor, Lloyds TSB.   Saving Private America ... cost so far? = US$905 billion.  $85 billion load to AIG to give the insurance giant breathing space to sell off assets to raise capital.  $87 billion financing to Lehman Brothers via JPMorgan Chase, so units of the bankrupt investment bank can continue to trade.  $200 billion for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to shore up the mortgage finance giant&amp;#039;s capital.  $29 billion to finance JPMorgan Chase&amp;#039;s buyout of Bear Stearns,  $200 billion of outstanding loans to banks.  $300 billion for the Federal Housing Administration.   $4 billion in grants to local communities to help them buy and repair homes abandoned due ot mortgage foreclosures.   Wow ! what a full load of money paid to capitalise some defunctive groups for nothing !  This is counter-productive, and just scratching the surface, not solving the problem at its cause. Like symptomatic relief for the dying patient with cancer.   As I mentioned, the root problem are as complex:   No savings by the American people, the poor are getting poorer and the rich getting richer by tax cuts, and interest rate cuts. Rich people simply move their money to foreign banks for higher interest, or cross bank interest.   Job loss due to several reasons: More expensive to produce in US, factories are moving to cheap labor markets. The unacceptance of US goods by the group of countries that are against US foreign policies, in Iraq and towards Iran.  Productivity has fallen, more people are out of jobs than those actively employed.  Inflation is catching up with the US, in the environment of rising fuel oil and food prices.   Joyce      
