SEOUL, Dec 8 (Reuters) - South Korean banks will contribute 8 trillion won ($5.5 billion) to a 10 trillion won fund that will be formed to stabilise the local bond market, to help ease a credit squeeze at home, an industry association said on Monday. In a meeting hosted by the Korea Federation of Banks, the chief executives of Kookmin Bank, Shinhan Bank and five other lenders also agreed to refrain from issuing domestic bonds, including certificates of deposit, so that market interest rates could go down. 'Chief executives of banks at the meeting shared the view that banks had to make every effort to have money circulate in financial markets, now that the economic slump and slow exports are hitting small- and medium-sized companies,' they said in a joint statement. State-owned Korea Development Bank would pump 2 trillion won and Kookmin Bank inject 1.03 trillion won into the new fund that the government announced last month. Other banks in South Korea, including Citibank and SC First Bank, owned by Standard Chartered, will contribute the remainder of the $5.5 billion, while insurance companies and brokerages have also been requested to participate into the fund. In another effort to provide liquidity to the corporate sector, banks have extended debt maturity for one year for 27 out of 30 construction companies applying for a payment reprieve programme. The programme has been in place since April. The heads of major domestic banks have decided to call on the government and monetary authorities to continue drawing up measures to revive corporate lending and for banks to maintain a solid financial status, according to the statement. South Korean banks have planned to raise a combined 7 trillion won later this year via the sale of subordinated bonds to lift capital ratios from a 7- year low. KB Financial Group, parent of top domestic retail bank Kookmin, said last Friday that it would sell 500 billion won worth of bonds to absorb new shares to be sold by the bank this month. ($1=1459.9 Won) (Reporting by Kim Yeon-hee, Additional reporting by Lee Chang-ho; Editing by Jonathan Hopfner) ($1=1459.9 Won) Keywords: BANKS KOREA/FUND (yeonhee.kim@thomsonreuters.com; +82 2 3704 5646; Reuters Messaging: yeonhee.kim.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
