Compiled for Reuters by Media Monitors. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW (www.afr.com) -- The chief executive of department store David Jones , Mark McInnes, said yesterday the upmarket retailer's card agreement with American Express would not be affected by declining consumer spending. Mr McInnes also said David Jones would not change the co-branded card's recently criticised A$99 annual fee, but the interest rate applicable on the card will be reduced following recent official rates cuts. Page 43. -- Steelmaker BlueScope Steel yesterday entered a trading halt as plans to raise A$300 million were organised. The funds are to be used to help pay down A$400 million in debt due early next year, despite managing director Paul O'Malley assuring investors on October 30 that such a move was not being considered. BlueScope has also refused to comment on speculation that the planned sale of the company's iron sands project in New Zealand had fallen through. Page 44. -- Underwear, clothing and footwear wholesaler Pacific Brands is to cut dividends by 65 percent this year. The funds will instead be used to help pay off some of the company's A$740 million of debt. Confidence in Pacific Brands has been undermined by the downturn in the retail environment and the unexpected departure of chairman Pat Handley on November 27. Shares in the company yesterday fell by 6 percent to A55 cents, a record low, after trading at A$3.37 a year ago. Page 45. -- Litigation funder IMF yesterday said it plans to fund a class action by shareholders against diversified miner OZ Minerals for failing to disclose the maturity date of US$560 million debt. The mining company only revealed the need to refinance the debt three days before a critical deadline on November 25, when it had not been able to reach an agreement with lenders. OZ Minerals is now in an extended trading halt, and is not expected to resume trading until next year. Page 46. - - THE AUSTRALIAN (www.theaustralian.news.com.au) -- Macquarie Group yesterday issued an update to investors, warning of weaker profits from the main businesses of the investment bank during the current year, saying 'we expect the full-year result to be well down on the prior year.' Macquarie said its investment banking area, part of Macquarie Capital, would be most affected, with over 100 jobs cut during the past week.  Macquarie's lower profit outlook was partly offset by recent wins of mandates to advise Qantas Airways and Coca-Cola Amatil on their current negotiations. P 19. -- Law firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques has abandoned merger talks with Britain's Clifford Chance due to the international financial crisis. The talks are thought to have been ended by mutual agreement, and are not believed to have failed over any other cause than the volatile economic environment. Mallesons chief executive partner Robert Milliner yesterday said the firm's strategy of overseas growth would continue, particularly into Asia, where the firm has strong presences in Hong Kong and China. Page 19. -- The new chief executive of Fairfax Media, Brian McCarthy, may restructure management roles at the group, possibly installing former Rural Press executives to top positions. Mr McCarthy was the chief executive of Rural Press before its takeover by Fairfax last year and was known for keeping down costs in the organisation. The board of Fairfax will meet today in Sydney and are expected to formally announce Mr McCarthy's position and discuss plans for reducing the company's A$2.5 billion of debt. Page 19. -- The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) yesterday said it would produce a discussion paper in the second quarter of next year on the principles which should govern executive pay. The regulator said it will not focus on the levels of compensation, instead concentrating on how remuneration is structured and 'in particular, on the incentives built into these arrangements.' APRA executive member John Trowbridge also said remuneration practices had played a role in creating the international financial crisis. Page 21. - - THE SYDNEY MORNING HERALD (www.smh.com.au) -- Lachlan Murdoch has acquired a 14 percent shareholding in distressed toy and children's clothing company Funtastic . Antium, the investment vehicle of the 37-year-old son of global media tycoon Rupert Murdoch, revealed yesterday that it had paid between A14 cents and A15 cents a share for the 'passive' stake. The move came four months after Funtastic deflected a A$132.4 million takeover bid from private equity player Archer Capital. The toymaker is the biggest local distributor of brands including Disney and Bratz. Page 27. -- Qantas Airways has narrowly avoided a rejection of its application to secure an extension of its code-share agreement with South Africa Airways (SAA).  The Australian national carrier's application was approved only because rival airline Virgin Blue revealed plans to fly to South Africa, the International Air Services Commission has said. The IASC consent came despite concerns expressed by the Australian competition regulator that the arrangement between Qantas and SAA may be detrimental to competition. Page 28. -- Lead and zinc miner Perilya has said it is confident that the move by Chinese group Shenzhen Zhongjin Lingnan Nonfemet (Zhongjin) to take a controlling stake in the West Australian company would be approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Zhongjin will buy 197.67 million shares at A23 cents each to acquire a 50.1 percent shareholding in Perilya. 'There is a prospect of a better or higher offer but the Zhongjin placement is the best alternative in front of the board,' Perilya managing director Paul Arndt said yesterday. Page 29. -- The impending appointment of Fairfax Media senior executive Brian McCarthy as chief executive of the publishing group has fuelled speculation that chairman Ron Walker may be on the way out. Observers cited Mr Walker's strong support of David Kirk, who was recently removed as chief executive after ballooning debt weighed down on Fairfax Media's share price. But Mr Walker, who intends to seek a further three-year term next year, is not expected to be challenged by key shareholder John B Fairfax, onlookers said. Page 29. - - THE AGE (www.theage.com.au) -- The governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, Glenn Stevens, yesterday said China would not act as a support for the Australian economy, as some have expected. Speaking to the Australian Business Economists, Mr Stevens said it was possible the growth of China's gross domestic product had already fallen 'noticeably below the 8 percent pace embodied in various forecasts for 2009.' Despite this, Mr Stevens said that he had 'quiet confidence' regarding Australia's future. Page B1. -- The chief executive of the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), Brian Cassidy, yesterday told a Melbourne court he now believed the ACCC had promised Richard Pratt that a document admitting to illegal price-fixing would not be used against him. Mr Cassidy said he changed his mind after receiving advice from the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions. Mr Pratt, founder of Visy Industries, has been charged with giving false and misleading evidence to ACCC investigators. Page B1. -- Tabcorp chief executive casinos Walter Bugno has complained about a Queensland Government decision to raise taxes on gaming machines in casinos, saying 'Tabcorp should have been consulted on these tax increases before they occurred.' However, Queensland Treasurer Andrew Fraser said discounted tax rates casinos had been given to help fund their development were not intended to be permanent. Mr Fraser also said the rates casinos would now have to pay would still be below what clubs and hotels pay. Page B3. -- Diversified miner BHP Billiton last month shipped its lowest amount of iron ore out of Australia in nine months. BHP exported 10.1 million tonnes from Western Australia during November as demand from China continued to fall. The company last month announced that it would defer 5 percent of its shipments for the current year. BHP may be forced to cut production by 25 percent next year, according to analysts at Merrill Lynch. Rival miners Vale and Rio Tinto have also seen reduced sales. Page B3. - - Keywords: DIGEST AUSTRALIA BUSINESS .Keywords: DIGEST AUSTRALIA BUSINESS . Keywords: DIGEST AUSTRALIA BUSINESS (Sydney Newsroom +61-2 9373 1800; sydney.newsroom@reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
