GE Money Australia and New Zealand will sell its Wizard Home Loans brand and franchise network in Australia to Aussie Home Loans for an undisclosed amount.  As part of the deal, Commonwealth Bank will acquire up to $4 billion of mortgages originated by Wizard.  GE Money will continue to service all existing loans that it is retaining in the normal way.  Aussie Home Loans will acquire the franchise distribution network of Wizard, which is 33 per cent owned by CBA and includes 160 outlets and 300 mortgage advisers.  Aussie's executive chairman John Symond said the acquisition would add a retail channel and distribution capability to Aussie's existing operations and was 'great news for the consumer'' amid a shrinking non-bank sector.  GE Money bought Wizard in 2004 and will continue to earn an income stream from the loans it is retaining, Mr Cutter said.  'This is an important part of our strategy to allocate capital more selectively for a reasonable return on investment.  'The extreme volatility and greatly increased cost of funds on the global and local wholesale markets have made this withdrawal from the home lending business necessary.  'This sale is consistent with GE's strategy to reduce GE Capital to approximately 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the global business,'' he added.  GE Money's parent, US-based General Electric, had been on a campaign to offload assets within its financial services arm this year after heavy falls in profit at GE Money.  GE Money its local arm, which has 3 million customers, will focus on retail store finance, credit cards, personal loans and insurance, sold through our retail partners, branches and online direct channels.  The sale of Wizard to Aussie Home Loans is expected to be completed by the end of February 2009, with transition details to be determined in January.  CBA said the Wizard mortgages portfolio it will buy meet strict lending criteria and are 100 per cent mortgage insured.  Commonwealth Bank will acquire $2 billion of loans by the end of February 2009, and is in discussions with GE Money over acquiring an additional $2 billion of loans.  
