Article from:   Dow Jones Newswires  WESTPAC plans to raise $2.5 billion through a share placement to institutional investors to bolster its capital position amid continued volatility in global financial markets.  The lender also said it will take a $500 million adjustment for its recent acquisition of St George Bank, and flagged another step up in provisions for the 2009 financial year following high profile corporate collapses.  Sydney-based Westpac plans to sell shares at a fixed price of $16 a share, a 10.5 per cent discount to its last traded price of $17.88, a person familiar with the situation told Dow Jones Newswires. That offer price will mark the stock's lowest point since the start of 2004.  Westpac is the latest Australian bank to raise capital in an institutional share placement.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia issued $2 billion shares in October to help fund its acquisition of BankWest, while last month National Australia Bank recently raised $3 billion through an institutional placement to bolster its capital position.  Still, Westpac's placement weighed on the sector and the broader market as investors speculated on which other companies may consider a share issue to bolster capital.  By late morning, ANZ shares were down 2.6 per cent, NAB down 3.5 per cent and CBA was down 6.5 per cent.  'The spotlight moves from Westpac being at the bottom of peers in terms of Tier 1 to CBA,' said an analyst at a major brokerage.  'The stock had a big day yesterday, and now you look at it and it is at the low end in terms of Tier 1, and the question is 'will they do something similar?''  He said it was harder to see ANZ and NAB needing to boost capital, given they had higher Tier 1 ratios.  Westpac, which recently became Australia's biggest bank by market capitalisation following its takeover of St George, said its fully underwritten placement will add around 92 basis points to its Tier 1 capital position to around 8.32 per cent, above its 6.75-to-7.75 per cent target range.  Westpac said: 'The capital raising further increases Westpac's capital resources, enhances its balance sheet flexibility and will position the organization to capture organic growth opportunities.  It will raise up to $500 million more through a retail share purchase plan, it said.  The bank said the merger with St George, which was completed on December 1, is tracking in line with expectations, but it has 'conservatively allowed' for $500 million in fair value and acquisition adjustments. It is in the process of revaluing St George's assets and aligning accounting policies, with the $500 million figure factoring in a worst-case scenario.  Westpac said its performance in the first two months of the 2009 financial year has been 'sound' with overall trends in earnings consistent with that experienced in the second half.  But it said the first two months have been impacted by higher impairment provisions, including top-ups to provisions for previously announced exposures including Allco Finance Group and ABC Learning Centres, which were put into administration by banks.  The higher provisions also include one unidentified corporate downgrade.  Westpac shares have been suspended while a bookbuild is conducted.  The placement has been fully underwritten by JPMorgan Australia, UBS, and Morgan Stanley Australia Securities.  Separately, ANZ and Westpac will price US dollar-denominated government guaranteed bonds in New York trading tomorrow (AEDT), a market participant said.  The expected offerings will bring to a climax weeks of speculation surrounding which Australian bank would utilise the government's term funding guarantee, and at what cost.  Pricing for the new type of debt has been a critical point of focus for investors and bank treasurers, who have been keenly awaiting a formal offering to steer future debt sales.  ANZ, which will price before Westpac, is offering investors a two-year floating rate tranche, with price guidance in the area of 70 basis points over US dollar Libor, the market participant told Dow Jones Newswires.  The bank is also offering three-year fixed-rate notes, with price guidance in the area of 100 basis points over mid swaps.  The offering will raise in excess of $US1 billion ($1.4 billion), and the book is currently being built in the Asia session today, and will continue in Europe and US trading hours.  And CBA is to launch a government-guaranteed five-year, and non-guaranteed three-year bond issue later today, a person familiar with the matter said today.  The bank is offering investors a five-year, Australian-dollar-denominated, government-guaranteed bond with price guidance around 120 basis points over the relevant swap rate, the person said.  
