MELBOURNE: The credit crunch is likely to get worse before it gets better for Australian companies, as foreign lenders retreat and Australian banks keep tighter control over whom they lend to.  The top Australian banks are all gearing up to shoulder a bigger lending burden, having raised about $14 billion in debt and equity over the past three months, seeing opportunities as foreign banks step back.  Australian and New Zealand companies have more than $24 billion in debt due in 2009 within the realm rated by Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, which includes the global miner Rio Tinto.  Rio Tinto, with $8.9 billion due, and the coal-to-groceries conglomerate Wesfarmers, with 3.5 billion Australian dollars, or $2.4 billion, due, make up about half the total refinancing need. 'Those refinancing pressures are building,' said Anthony Flintoff, S&amp;amp;P's senior director of corporate ratings in Australia. The rating agency warns that while the need is not too large in 2009, the burden will be much bigger in 2010, as a lot of debt that was refinanced this year will come due, as will leveraged buyout debt from three to six years ago. 'You've got these coincident factors that are going to make that the really difficult year, if conditions remain as they are,' Flintoff said. Bank executives say that depending on how sharply foreign lenders pull back, Australian banks will be hard-pressed to fill the breach. That would force more Australian companies to raise equity, cut capital spending or cut dividends. 'We've seen more foreign banks withdrawing from business lending' because 'foreign bank head offices dictate capital allocation,' said Paul Dowling, principal analyst at the Sydney-based banking research firm East &amp;amp; Partners. 'Domestic banks will not be able to take up that slack entirely,' he said, adding that Australian banks were already under pressure to supply credit.  The property sector and businesses exposed to discretionary consumer spending might be most vulnerable. 'Foreign banks have sizable exposure to real estate, and if they decided to pull back from that sector, it would be a challenge,' said Joseph Healy, executive general manager for business and private banking at National Australia Bank.  In the retailing sector, Wesfarmers is considered to be facing the most pressure, having bought the major Australian supermarket group Coles and the retailers Target, Kmart and Officeworks for 19 billion Australian dollars at the top of the market last year.  If it runs into problems refinancing its debt, it might have to cut capital spending, which would set back its turnaround plan for the Coles business and clip earnings growth in turn. It is also vulnerable on coal earnings, which are expected to slide in 2009.  The company has indicated it wants to tap the Eurobond market for as much as 
