 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   FXJ, PEM, PBG, HVN, BSL, WBC,   AAP 2008-12-09   Automatic teller machine operator Customers Ltd expects revenue to be boosted by changes to fee structures that mean it will no longer have to share ATM fees with banks.  The new structure, starting on March 3, and to be enforced by the Reserve Bank of Australia, will mean ATM operators such as Customers will get all the withdrawal fee users are charged, according to chief executive Tim Wildash.  Currently, a $2 fee charged at a Customers' ATM is shared equally with the account holder's bank.  With the reform, the whole $2 will go to the ATM operator.  As part of the change, ATMs will disclose beforehand how much a person is to be charged for a withdrawal. 'We're expecting a bit of a drop off in usage as people are shown the fee,' Mr Wildash told AAP. 'There will still be a significant boost' in the company's revenue, he said.  Customers signs contracts with shops, cafes and hotels to have an ATM on their premises.  The company currently has 5,500 machines around Australia for 21 per cent of the market, which is about the same as rival operator Cashcard Australia Ltd.  The company grew revenue 90 per cent to $80.4 million for the 12 months to June, although the loss from continuing operations doubled to $12.1 million as ATMs were replaced and due to interest expenses on debt.  Shares in Customers have not fallen as far as the broader market tumble this year as investors look forward to the boost in earnings coming from the ATM fee reforms.  The stock gained five cents, or 4.17 per cent, to $1.25 at 1201 AEDT. They have declined 26 per cent this year, compared with the 45 per cent slump in the All Ordinaries index.  Customers is aiming to increase revenue through advertising on its ATMs and offering additional services such as pre-paid mobile phone recharging and operating branded machines for banks for a fee.  David McIntyre
