Westpac is to take its balance sheet-boosting measures to almost $4 billion after tapping its institutional investors for $2.5 billion yesterday in a move which reflected the high cost of buying its smaller rival, St George Bank.  The decision by the Sydney major to raise additional capital took the amount of new funding recently harvested by the Big Four banks to more than $12 billion as they deal with rising bad debts, greater lending pressures and acquisition opportunities.  Westpac's move also highlighted the growing gulf between three of the majors - itself, ANZ and National Australia Bank - and the Commonwealth Bank, which is now considered by the market to have the lowest level of the best form of funding, Tier One capital, in the banking sector.  The Commonwealth saw its share price hammered in response to Westpac's successful share placement, falling by more than 8.5 per cent - or $2.80 - to $30, as investors indicated that it, too, would follow its rivals by topping up its funding needs.  With ANZ and NAB having raised $6.4 billion between them since their first-half results, to boost their Tier One levels to 8.43 per cent and 8.25 per cent respectively, Westpac and the Commonwealth were seen as the two laggards.  But yesterday's offer by Westpac of 156 million new shares at $16 a share - a 10 per cent discount to its last traded price of $17.88 - changed all that.  The issue, which was fully underwritten by JPMorgan, UBS and Morgan Stanley, has raised Westpac's Tier One strength from 7.35 per cent to about 8.3 per cent after taking into account the St George deal.  That will leave the Commonwealth stranded at 7.5 per cent, said analysts at Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs JBWere, both of whom forecast that it will soon raise $2 billion from shareholders.  Such a move will come on top of the $2 billion of new money the Commonwealth gathered from the market in October to help pay for its acquisition of Perth's BankWest.  Westpac's $16 billion merger with St George, completed just over a week ago, was cited by market watchers as one of the key reasons for the bank's decision to go the market at this time.  Deutsche Bank said the additional money reflected what it considered to be the real cost of St George's purchase, with $1.5 billion of the sum needed to recapitalise the bank at the stronger levels Westpac required.  Nonetheless, such was the demand for the new Westpac stock that the bank's advisers had to scale back bids from mainly domestic fund managers. In doing so, the bank resisted the temptation to raise more than the $2.5 billion and will, instead, offer $500 million of new shares to its retail shareholders.  Those moves will follow the recent underwriting of its dividend reinvestment plan that raised nearly $1 billion.  Support for yesterday's placement was boosted by Westpac's disclosure that its earnings performance for the first two months of its latest financial year was in line with the 3 per cent growth seen in the second half of the year. However, it also indicated that it would take higher first-half bad debt charges as a consequence of the failures of Allco Finance Group and ABC Learning Centres and a write-down of loans to another unnamed troubled corporate, understood to be Babcock &amp;amp; Brown.
