A last minute intervention by John Symond saw a joint bid by his Aussie Home Loans business and the Commonwealth Bank snatch Wizard Home Loans from the grasp of National Australia Bank, it emerged yesterday.  NAB's announcement last week that it was in advanced talks with Wizard's owner, GE Money, to buy one of the last remaining big non-bank home loan suppliers alerted Mr Symond to the prospect that a Commonwealth Bank-backed deal could deliver Aussie's one-time rival into his hands.  The purchase of Wizard, thought to have cost $30 million for its brand name, 160 franchise retail outlets, the services of 300 mortgage advisers and up to $4 billion of mortgages, is the first significant deal to be done by the two since Commbank bought a 33 per cent stake in Aussie in August.  Mr Symond approached the bank about a possible joint approach to GE Money within hours of NAB's statement to the ASX on December 17.  The two subsequently agreed that Aussie would take the front-line part of the Wizard business and Commbank would acquire as much as $4 billion worth of the company's existing book of mortgages, which were sitting on GE's financially stretched balance sheet.  NAB had intended to acquire all of the same operations in a deal to rival Westpac's purchase a year ago of another top non-bank home loan provider, RAMS, which became the first big victim of the global financial crisis that subsequently restricted Wizard's operations.  But its ambitions were scuppered by an announcement on Wednesday by GE, Aussie and Commbank that will see Wizard remain, for the time being at least, an independently owned mortgage provider run at arm's length from the big banks.  NAB confirmed on the same day that it had been out-bid and had ended its talks with GE. 'It was a great opportunity for us to really get some of the scale we were looking for,' said a delighted Mr Symond, who retains control of Aussie through a majority shareholding.  He has yet, though, to decide whether or for how long the Wizard brand name will be retained and will look at combining it into Aussie's network. Alternatively, it could be dropped altogether, ending Wizard's association with cheaper home loans.  Mr Symond has, however, asked Mark Bouris, Wizard's founder and its chairman for the past four years since its acquisition by GE Money in a $400 million deal, to stay on as an adviser to the combined business.  CommBank it has initially acquired $2 billion worth of existing mortgages for several million dollars and will look at buying the rest shortly. Its involvement will allow the Aussie-owned Wizard to refinance the home loans of thousands of its customers who are paying above the standard mortgage interest rates offered in the market because of the credit crunch pressures on GE Money's finances. 
