SYDNEY, Dec 9 (Reuters) - Australia's second-largest lender, Westpac, is raising A$2.5 billion ($1.66 billion) in shares to bolster its balance sheet as bad-debt charges rise and it looks to bed down a recent major acquisition. Westpac launched on Tuesday a fully underwritten share issue, saying the money would take its tier-1 capital ratio to around 8.32 percent after taking into account its just-completed $9 billion takeover of rival St George Bank. 'The capital-raising further increases Westpac's capital resources, enhances its balance sheet flexibility and will position the organisation to capture organic growth opportunities,' the bank said in a statement. Westpac is offering the new shares at A$16 each, a 10.5 percent discount to its closing price on Monday, and is taking advantage of a rally in financial stocks over the past few days. 'They picked a couple of up-days and decided to put their issue out there. It's not unexpected. You do these things when you can and the best time to do it is after a couple of good days when the general sentiment is resonably good,' said Angus Gluskie, portfolio manager at White Funds Management. Westpac, formerly the country's fourth-largest lender, took over the fifth, St George, in an all-share deal that stands as Australia's biggest ever bank merger, creating a lender with total assets of A$500 billion, Thomson Reuters data shows. National Australia Bank (NAB) is still the biggest lender with A$564.6 billion, the recent data shows. Westpac shares were halted from trade on Tuesday, pending the institutional share issue, which is being underwritten by investment banks JP Morgan, UBS and Morgan Stanley. Westpac's fund-raising follows a A$3 billion share issue from NAB last month. (Reporting by Mette Fraende, writing by Mark Bendeich) ($1=A$1.51) ($1=1.510 Australian Dollar) Keywords: WESTPAC/ (Wellington newsroom tel 64 4471 4234, fax +64 4 4736 212, wellington.newsroom@reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
