NATIONAL Australia Bank has missed another acquisition opportunity in the local financial services sector after Commonwealth Bank and Aussie Home Loans snapped up the assets of Wizard Home Loans with an 11th-hour bid.  Under the terms of a sale deal negotiated with Wizard's parent GE Money, Aussie will acquire the the brand and distribution network of Wizard, while CBA has purchased a $4 billion mortgage book.   NAB has been in talks to buy parts of the Wizard operation since the middle of the year and was viewed as the frontrunner to snare the company's assets.   CBA and Aussie refused to disclose how much they had paid for the assets, which were acquired by GE in 2004 as part of its $300 million acquisition of the Australian Financial Investments Group(AFIG).   GE is likely to book a capital loss of more than $200 million on the sale because CBA and Aussie are believed to have paid less than the net asset value of the businesses.   The credit crisis has ruined GE's previously bold plan to become a leading global provider of home loans.   One of the big goals was to roll out the Wizard business in the Indian mortgage market. But, those ambitions were extinguished earlier this year when the credit crunch inflated the company's funding costs.   Mike Cutter, the chief executive of GE Money in Australia and New Zealand, said the Wizard sale was consistent with GE's new strategy to reduce its exposure to financial services activities. ''This is an important part of our strategy to allocate capital more selectively for a reasonable return investment,'' he said. ''The extreme volatility and greatly increased cost of funds on the global and local wholesale markets have made this withdrawal from the home lending business necessary.''   The purchase of the Wizard mortgage book caps off an active year of asset buys for CBA, which include BankWest and a minority stake in Aussie Home Loans.   NAB, the most acquisitive Australian bank in the 1990s, is believed to be eyeing a move on Suncorp Metway next year.   GE will retain control of the AMS wholesale mortgage subsidiary which is also part of the AFIG operation. 
