 Westpac Banking Corp will raise $2.5 billion from a placement of shares to institutional investors to strengthen its balance sheet and position it for organic growth opportunities.  The bank's stock was placed in a trading halt on Tuesday ahead of an institutional bookbuild for the placement.  The extra funds will add about 92 basis points to Westpac's capital ratios and boost its Tier 1 capital to around 8.32 per cent, on a pro-forma basis.  Westpac, which recently took over St George Bank, had said in October that its Tier 1 capital target range was 6.75 per cent to 7.75 per cent.  However, due to the current highly uncertain environment the bank also said it would operate above that range 'from time to time.' Westpac also said on Tuesday its performance in the first two months of fiscal 2009 had been sound and that the overall earning trend was in line with its fiscal 2008 second half performance. 'The first two months have been impacted by higher impairment provisions, including the top-up to provisions for previously announced exposures, including Allco and ABC Learning, as well as for one corporate downgrade,' it noted. Westpac said its decision to raise $2.5 billion from a share sale took into consideration more challenging hybrid debt markets.  It also considered opportunities for growth, the impact of a slowing economy and further deterioration in credit conditions. 'Demand for Westpac's balance sheet is expected to increase in the coming period including from the maturity of corporate bonds and a reduction in foreign bank capacity for Australasian corporates,' it said. 'Decisions to extend funding will need to meet Westpac's normal lending criteria and be within acceptable company and industry limits.' Westpac's merger with St George was completed on December 1.  It said the St George portfolio continues to perform in line with expectations and its finding from due diligence conducted ahead of the takeover. 'Following the merger, Westpac has conservatively allowed for $500 million in fair value and acquisition adjustments,' the bank said. 'This placement also provides Westpac with the flexibility to manage these potential adjustments.' Westpac said the placement, which is fully underwritten, will not be increased.  After the placement, Westpac will also offer its retail shareholders the opportunity to participate in a non-underwritten share purchase plan.  The plan offers eligible ordinary shareholders registered by the close of business on Monday the chance to subscribe for up to $10,000 worth of shares.  Westpac reserves the right to scale back applications under the plan if total demand exceeds $500 million.
