Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Ltd has sold $175 million in new shares to become the latest lender to bolster finances during the economic slowdown.  The regional lender also said it will buy stakes in wealth managers IOOF Holdings Ltd and Australian Wealth Management Ltd, who are in negotiations to merge, which would see Bendigo hold eight per cent of the combined company.  Shares in Bendigo slumped over seven per cent after the regional bank sold 17.5 million shares at $10 each, 15 per cent lower than Monday's closing price of $11.74.  The stock fell 87 cents, or 7.41 per cent, to $10.87 as of 1258 AEDT.  The bank, now the country's fifth biggest by market value, raised $80 million through a sale to retail shareholders and a further $95 million via a placement with institutions.  Bendigo's capital raising follows those by the major banks as they raise their forecasts for bad debt exposure.  The most recent was Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd, which raised $1.65 billion on its second attempt last week. The first raising was scrapped because the bank increased its bad debt forecast after the completion of the share sale.  'Our loyal shareholder base has always been a great strength of this company and we are delighted with their support,' Bendigo chairman Robert Johanson said.  'We are also pleased to welcome some new institutional investors as shareholders in Bendigo and Adelaide Bank.'  Bendigo had offered each of its retail shareholders up to $7,000 in new shares.  Goldman Sachs JB Were was the share placement's lead manager.  Bendigo said it also intended to acquire 3.7 million shares in IOOF, and 20 million shares in Australian Wealth Management, for $32 million.  The acquisition will see Bendigo take approximately an eight per cent stake in the companies subject to the completion of a merger between the two targets.  The bank aims to increase its exposure to the superannuation market, which has assured growth because of Australia's compulsory contributions. Australia's pension savings are the fourth biggest in the world.  'Bendigo is always exploring opportunities to grow and expand, including alliances and acquisitions that provide a strategic fit and offer improved and lasting returns for shareholders,' the bank said in a statement.  'Bendigo is currently exploring a number of opportunities, including loan portfolios that will strengthen individual business units,' Mr Johanson said.  
