BankWests besieged UK parent was planning to scale back its $1 billion east coast expansion even before Commonwealth Bank lodged a $2.1 billion takeover bid for the lender.  The revelations that London-listed HBOS was starved for funds when Commonwealth pounced came as the competition watchdog yesterday gave the all-clear to the $2.1 billion takeover of the former WA State bank.  In concluding a takeover was unlikely to substantially lessen competition in the market, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said it had received evidence that BankWests expansion plans were to be significantly scaled back as a result of the funding difficulties experiences by its UK parent.  The ACCC considered information provided by BankWest that its aggressive pricing was driven by its east coast expansion strategy and therefore would not continue because of the cessation of these plans, the watchdog said in a statement.  BankWest had repeatedly insisted its east coast rollout was on track and on schedule despite the escalating woes of its parent, which suffered a 90 per cent fall in its shares after a disastrous 4 billion ($9 billion) capital raising this year. Those woes culminated in a life-saving 12 billion takeover by Lloyds TSB in October, with the UK Government later stepping in to prop up the pair.  ACCC chairman Graeme Samuel said yesterday HBOS-Lloyds would have been unable to sustain BankWest in its current form for much longer.  Suffice to say it became clear that absent to the acquisition BankWest would continue but in a far more constrained state than prior to the financial crisis, he said.  But Mr Samuel warned the Big Four banks against viewing the ruling as a green light to take over other regional banks.  The ACCCs views regarding the likely competitive effects of this proposed acquisition are specific to the circumstances of this acquisition, he said. (We) will closely analyse the competition implications of any further proposed acquisitions of regional banks.  Confirmation that the ACCC will not oppose the BankWest takeover means the approval of the prudential regulator and Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan are the only remaining hurdles to Commonwealths bid, which also includes the acquisition of HBOS Australias wealth management arm, St Andrews.  Sources close to both banks said much of the legwork had already been done behind the scenes to ensure a rapid transition once all approvals were in place. The acquisition could be completed by the end of the year.  Meanwhile, a question mark has been raised over the future of HBOSA chief David Willis, with both Commonwealth and its target refusing to confirm whether Mr Willis would have a role with the merged entity.  Commonwealth could also announce a new chief executive for BankWest, which is currently headed by Simon Walsh.  Commonwealth shares lost 5 per cent, or $1.50, to $28.50.
