SANTA CLARA, Calif., Dec. 9 /PRNewswire/ --  Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) announced today that it has begun organizing in anticipation of conducting its capital campaign with the goal of opening in the first quarter of 2009 as Pacific CommonWealth Bank, which will provide small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) in and around Santa Clara County the same financial products and service typically available only to large companies.  A new kind of bank specifically designed by financial services professionals to advocate for the local SMB community with commercial and deposit services, Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) will focus on:  -- Providing creative solutions to satisfy the banking needs of very local small business segments -- Serving clients with greater personal and professional attention than competitor banks -- Delivering faster turnaround times and more efficient service than competitor banks -- Maximizing technology enhancements to ensure service excellence  After receiving regulatory approval to organize on July 24, 2008, Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) formally incorporated July 31, 2008. Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) expects to conduct its capital campaign during the fourth quarter of 2008.  Composed of financial services veterans, the proposed Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) team brings its experience to this new venture: Staff-level team members have worked in financial services for an average of 27 years, while Officer-level executives have on average 30 years of experience in the financial services industry.  'Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) fully believes that local small- and medium-sized businesses deserve equal access to top-quality commercial banking products and services. We believe that by supporting local SMBs today, we are investing in the economic health of our community and its people as it grows in the long-term,' said Sven N. (Nord) Hastings, proposed President and Chief Executive Officer. 'Far beyond connecting to the SMB community, Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) aims to connect its clients to each other with the hope of creating a unique network and valuable resource.'  For additional information, please contact an Organizational Officer of Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) at 408.370.2589 or visit the website at http://www.pcwbank.com.  Forward Looking Statements  In addition to the historical information contained herein, this press release may contain certain 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning and subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Bank's organization, management or future operations. When used herein, the words 'anticipate,' 'believe,' 'estimate,' 'expect,' and 'intend' and words or phrases of similar meaning, as they relate to the Bank and its organization, management or future operations, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although the Bank believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. The reader of this press release should understand that all such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that might cause such a difference include, among other matters, changes in interest rates; economic conditions including inflation and real estate values in California and the Bank's market areas; governmental regulation and legislation; credit quality; competition affecting the Bank's businesses generally; the risk of natural disasters and future catastrophic events including terrorist related incidents; and other factors disclosed under 'RISK FACTORS' in the Bank's Offering Circular. A copy of the Bank's Offering Circular may be obtained, without charge, by contacting an Organizational Officer of the Bank at the contact numbers listed above. The Bank does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any of these forward-looking statements, whether to reflect new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  Contact: Organizational Officer Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization) 408.370.2589   www.pcwbank.com  SOURCE Pacific CommonWealth Bank (In Organization)  
