THE sale of Wizard Home Loans to Aussie Home Loans and Commonwealth Bank for $26 million - a whopping $474 million discount to the price paid by GE Money in 2004 - reflects the crippling conditions in non-bank lending.  It also signals the start of the next round of consolidation in mortgage broking, regional banking and the non-bank lending market.  The remaining non-bank lenders, Resi Mortgage Corp, First Mac, Pepper Home Loans, Better Choice Home Loans, Beat Home Loans and a few others are expected to either close down or merge as credit conditions worsen.  Speculation is rife that listed mortgage broker Mortgage Choice will be the first of a series of takeovers. Its share price dived 75 per cent to 70c in the past year, and its market cap is now less than $100 million.  Others including Australian Finance Group, the biggest mortgage broker in the country, are under pressure to diversify and combine with smaller players after the banks cut commissions by up to 40 per cent in the past few months.  In the regional banking sector, Suncorp, Bendigo Bank and Bank of Queensland are also tipped to merge as the dislocation in capital markets, falling asset prices and pressure to re-capitalise makes it increasingly difficult to compete with the bigger banks. This year Commonwealth Bank bought BankWest and Westpac bought St George.  More credit unions and building societies are also believed to be considering merging to compete with the bigger players.  The upshot is that the big banks will get bigger and the smaller players will disappear, leaving competition sadly wanting.  The Big Four banks have already doubled their market share in the home loan market from 45 per cent in 2007 to about 90 per cent at the end of November 2008.  This figure is expected to keep increasing as securitisation markets remain shut for the foreseeable future.  For customers, the diminished competition will mean that banks have regained pricing power over savings accounts, credit cards and - most significantly - home loans.  To date, regulators have done nothing to stop this, having already waved through Westpac's $17.5 billion merger with St George and Commonwealth Bank's $2 billion merger with BankWest. There is little doubt that customers benefit from having more banks, not fewer.  Lenders that have reduced their presence or exited include Majestic Mortgages, Macquarie, Bluestone Mortgages and Virgin Money. The latter went so far as to put a note on its website: 'The cost of money is currently so high that we're unable to offer the great value home loans we're known for. So we've teamed up with online brokers eChoice who can help find you the right home loan for wherever you're at.'  Symond said 2009 would see more consolidation as credit markets remained closed and the non-banks continued to get smashed. 'They can't lend money, they can't secure liquidity and in mortgage broking the banks cut commissions by 30 to 40 per cent over the past four to five months,' he said.  He said the decision to buy Wizard was based on scale. 'This is a big volume, low margin business and we are on the lookout for further acquisitions,' he said.  The merger will boost Aussie's market share from about 3.5 per cent to 6 per cent, making it the biggest non-bank lender.  It is not known whether Aussie Home Loans will keep the Wizard name on the 160 Wizard shopfronts or rebadge them Aussie or a combination of both names.  Aussie founder and major shareholder John Symond said a decision on the name would be made by the end of February.  'We started talks a couple of weeks ago, so it is the fastest acquisition in history and there are a lot of details to be worked out,' he said. Wizard founder Mark Bouris will be retained as a consultant while Aussie and Commonwealth Bank, which owns 33 per cent of Aussie, work out the strategy for Wizard.  The $26 million sale figure says as much about how desperate General Electric was to exit the Australian market as it does about just how far financial markets have deteriorated.  GE Money paid Bouris and James Packer up to $500 million for Australian Financial Investments Group, which includes Wizard and a third-party business, in 2004. The third-party business is in run-off after failing to find a buyer, and its Wizard subsidiary in New Zealand is similarly in run-off.  As a point of comparison, Wizard has 200 branches across Australia and captures a mortgage market share of just over 2 per cent, while RAMS Home Loans holds a similar market share and was sold in a fire sale to Westpac late last year for $140 million.  GE Money expanded aggressively in Australia and New Zealand in the past decade, spending about $2 billion buying enterprises including Wizard, the credit card business of Coles and the hire-purchase interests of AGC.  It is now withdrawing - fast. In the latest filings with ASIC, GE Money Australia's mortgage operations posted a net loss of $5.7 million for 2007, compared with $70 million in the previous year.  ASIC documents show that Wizard posted an $18 million net profit in 2007, down from $20 million in the previous year. It is widely tipped to make a loss in 2008.  It is understood that problems emerged at Wizard around the time of the sub-prime crisis, when the cost of debt increased, mortgage lending started falling, and its US parent sent draconian directives to branches to tighten up credit policies and reduce risk.  Wizard franchisees started to become resentful of the poor trailing commissions and upfront fees, the tightening credit policies imposed on them from the US and a lack of consultation on rate and fee increases.  In an attempt to make the merger as smooth as possible, Bouris has been retained as a consultant - for an unspecified period - and Wizard franchisees have been promised improved terms and conditions, particularly in terms of trailing fees and the ability to expand into broking and other product offerings.  
