The federal opposition says the latest economic data proves the government has squandered the strong economy it inherited and its stimulus plans have failed.  The national accounts showed gross domestic product dropped 0.5 per cent in the December quarter - the first negative result in eight years.  Over the year to December, GDP rose 0.3 per cent.  The September quarter GDP was unrevised at a rise of 0.1 per cent, meaning the economy had avoided a 'technical' recession of two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd on Wednesday said the government's first $10.4 billion economic stimulus package in December had cushioned the impact, saying Australia was among the top five performing economies in the world.  But Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull said Australia was travelling better than other countries because of the strong economy the government inherited when elected to office in 2007 - a position that has now been squandered. 'The fact is, we went into this downturn in a relatively strong position, and that's why we are still relatively better off than others,' Mr Turnbull told reporters. 'But Mr Rudd can't claim credit for that. He can't take credit for the hard work the coalition did in government. 'What he has to be judged on is simply this test - has he made things better or worse? 'And it is clear beyond any doubt that his poor economic decisions have made a difficult situation worse.' Mr Turnbull said Wednesday's GDP figures proved the Rudd government's economic stimulus packages had failed to sustain economic growth. 'If ever there was a time that people were going to spend the $10 billion cash handout, it was the handout ... given two weeks before Christmas ,' Mr Turnbull said. 'You can see from these figures, exactly as we predicted last year, the vast bulk of it has been saved. 'It produced very little bang for the buck.' Mr Rudd said the figures reflected the effects of the global recession on 17 advanced economies. 'Australia cannot continue to swim against the global economic tide,' he said. 'Australia can reduce the impact, cushion the impact, of the global economic tide but we cannot stop it altogether.' 'Had the government not introduced the stimulus package at the end of last year the impact on Australian jobs and the Australian economy would have been worse,' Mr Rudd said. 'This underlines the government's resolve to continue to take whatever further action is necessary to underpin growth and jobs in the future.' Asked whether Wednesday's news meant a technical recession was likely, Mr Rudd said the government would do what was necessary to get through the crisis. 'We believe we have a strategy which will see Australia through this crisis and we are embarked upon that strategy,' Mr Rudd said. All governments, businesses, unions, workers and the community had to work together until the world market was properly stabilised, he said.  Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan says the contraction in global demand has been 'savage' but is adamant Australia will emerge from the financial crisis stronger than ever.  He said the effects of the government's $42 billion economic security package were yet to flow through to the economy.  Mr Swan said the federal government and the Reserve Bank of Australia had acted swiftly to support economic activity and jobs precisely at the time in the December quarter when there was a very sharp global contraction. 'There is absolutely no doubt that things in this country would have been far worse had the government not acted when we did with the economic security strategy announced last October,' he said. Mr Swan said there was a lot of stimulus to flow through the economy in the coming months. 'We're still yet to see the full impact of the economic security strategy,' he said. 'It began to flow through the last three weeks of December, it will flow (in) the early parts of this year.' Mr Swan said the $42 billion nation building and jobs plan will provide substantial fiscal stimulus. 'I've heard some throwing around a line that somehow the government has spent all this money and it hasn't had the impact. 'The fact is the $42 billion package hasn't begun (to flow) and it is designed to flow through over the next two years, precisely as it turns out at the time it is needed.' Mr Swan denied that the figures showed that a large part of the government's $10.4 billion stimulus package had gone into people's savings.  The main reason for the boost to savings was the 300-basis points cut in interest rates for the period in question, he said. 'I think the principal cause of the increase in the savings rate ... are people who are at this stage saving the benefit that has come to them through a very substantial reduction in their mortgage repayments,' he said. However, Mr Swan conceded some of the economic security strategy may have ended up in savings accounts. 'Yes it may be that there is some part of the economic security strategy which has been saved, and we said at the time that wouldn't be a bad thing.' Mr Swan said it was inevitable that what was happening in the rest of the world would have a dramatic impact in Australia.  He said when growth contracted, it had human consequences. 'You could see it in the eyes of those people who were retrenched from Pacific Brands the other day. You can feel it and hear it in the voices of people you talk to,' he said. 'It means a very significant economic challenge for our country.' The ACTU says the latest national accounts figures are grim news for workers.  The peak union body's president, Sharan Burrow, urged employers not to make things worse with 'short-sighted' decisions to cut jobs in the wake of the economic downturn. 'We know that many businesses are under severe pressure from the slump in demand,' Ms Burrow said in a statement. 'They need to be talking to their employees and their union representatives about ways to retain jobs.'
