SYDNEY, March 10 (Reuters) - Australian job advertisements plunged by a record in February while firms reported the toughest trading since the recession of the early 1990s, arguing strongly for yet lower interest rates and further fiscal stimulus.   The dire readings from a brace of private surveys on Tuesday will only fuel worries that official labour figures due on Thursday would show a long-awaited turn for the worse.   'The readings on employment are lower than any since June 1991 and imply considerable job shedding,' said Alan Oster, group chief economist at National Australia Bank (NAB).   Analysts already feared the labour report would show a drop of around 20,000 in February, with the jobless rate rising to 5.0 percent, the highest in almost three years.   The grim news puts renewed pressure on the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to resume easing at its next meeting in April, having surprised many by skipping a chance to ease this month.   Bill futures firmed on the data, showing a good chance the central bank will cut its key cash rate to a fresh record low of 2.75 percent next month. The RBA has already eased by 4 percentage points since September as the economy slipped ever closer to recession.   'Our reading of the RBA's recent 'non-move' is as an attempt to preserve ammunition for a time when things get worse,' argued Oster. 'We are strongly of the view that the RBA is paused, not finished.' He sees rates bottoming at 2 percent late this year.   NAB's monthly survey of over 400 firms found employment intentions fell by the most in the history of the series in February, with that index down 10 points to -27.   NAB's measure of business conditions dropped 9 points to -20, a level not seen since 1992. Sales and profits both slid, while forward orders dropped 7 points to -27.   A GROWING CONCERN   'The forward orders situation is increasingly a concern,' said Oster, who fears the economy will shrink again this quarter.   Gross domestic product (GDP) fell 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, when compared to the previous quarter, and another contraction this quarter would officially put Australia into recession.   NAB's survey did find an improvement in confidence, with that index rising 10 points to a still-recessionary -22, as the retail sector looked forward to more fiscally-inspired demand.   The first payments from the Labor government's A$42 billion ($26 billion) fiscal stimulus package are due later this month.   That did nothing for hiring intentions, however.   A monthly survey of job advertisements from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp showed ads sank 10.4 percent in February from the month before, to an average 161,583 a week.   That was the largest fall since the combined newspaper and internet series began in 1999 and left total ads down 39.8 percent on February last year.   'The trends in job advertising in Australia suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate is likely,' said Warren Hogan, ANZ's head of Australian economics.   He sees the jobless rate reaching 6.5 percent by the end of this year and 7.5 percent by mid-2010.   The survey showed the number of job advertisements in major metropolitan newspapers slid 25.2 percent in February, more than wiping out January's 12.3 percent bounce. Ads were down 55.4 percent on February last year, the biggest drop since this series began in the mid 1970s.   'The current downturn in the economy is likely to last throughout 2009, with little prospect of a meaningful recovery before 2010,' said Hogan. 
