9:55 am TWN, By Jean-Marc Mojon, AFP DAR ES SALAAM -- Millions of Africans face being thrown back into poverty and conflict by the global financial crisis, the International Monetary Fund chief warned Tuesday, calling for urgent action. We meet at a critical juncture in history for Africa, IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn told the opening of a conference in the Tanzanian capital to discuss ways of easing the crisis' impact on Africa.   And the threat is not only economic, there is a real risk that millions will be thrown back into poverty, he said.   This is not only about protecting economic growth or household incomes, it is also about containing the threat of civil unrest, perhaps even a war. It is about people and their futures, he said.   The global financial crisis, that might now be called the great recession, provides a sobering backdrop to our conference. The IMF expects global growth to slow below zero this year, the worst performance in most of our lifetimes.   Even though the crisis has been slow in reaching Africa's shores, we all know that it's coming and its impact will be severe, he said.   Conference host President Jakaya Kikwete said the current crisis poses the greatest danger to Africa's development in recent history.   The IMF chief said tumbling trade, declining remittances and dwindling foreign investment were piling pressure on Africa.   He predicted African growth of about three percent in 2009, half the rate forecast last year.   Even this could be too optimistic if the crisis deepens, he said.   Some private financial institutions in advanced countries have received more financial support than the entire African continent, Strauss-Kahn pointed out, referring to the massive bail-outs handed to private firms such as US insurance giant AIG or Royal Bank of Scotland.   At a time when the international community is finding hundreds of billions of dollars for crisis resolution, I cannot accept that we will not be able to find hundreds of millions for low-income countries, he said.   Adding to the doom and gloom at the conference, the first such meeting to focus on Africa, former UN chief Kofi Annan described the current economic threat as the economic equivalent of a tsunami.   African banks had invested little in the so-called toxic assets that ignited the crisis and the continent was relatively spared by the first phase of the global downturn last year.   Africa is now on the front line, said Annan, attending the conference in his capacity as chair of the Africa Progress Panel.   The IMF has warned that a decade of gains by the continent  where half the countries now have single-digit inflation and fiscal deficits below five percent  risked being wiped out.   Annan made a series of proposals aimed at tackling the continent's woes.
