KOLKATA: Most banks may choose to keep their interest rates unchanged till the end of the fiscal. This, despite the fact that Reserve Bank of India signalled banks to reduce lending rates further to stimulate credit demand.  As per the early indications from the country's top bankers, banks would go slow in reducing lending rates. If at all, banks would go in for token reduction in rates, to appease the banking regulator and the North Block.  Top bankers said that although RBI has sent a strong signal by reducing both the repo and reverse repo rate by 50 basis points (bps) each, banks are unlikely to gain directly in terms of their cost of funds. So, banks would perhaps hold back decision on rate cuts till RBI reduces cash reserve ratio, which is widely anticipated now by a section of the market.  Even Suresh Tendulkar, the Prime Minister s Economic Advisory Council chairman, said that banks are now flush with funds and rate cuts may not help as banks are overcautious. Interestingly, he made his observations on Wednesday before RBI announced the latest monetary measures.  Reacting to RBI moves, Uco Bank chairman and managing director SK Goel said: Banks are sitting on excess rupee-liquidity. Banks are not borrowing funds from RBI and therefore, the reduction in repo rate will not directly benefit banks. RBI has lowered the repo rate to 5% and reverse repo rate to 3.5%. The repo rate is a rate at which banks borrows from RBI. Banks lend to RBI at reverse repo rate.  Mr Goel indicated that Uco may reduce interest rates by merely 25 bps. Uco is expected to take a decision on Friday. Meanwhile, United Bank of India (UBI) has reduced its benchmark rime lending rate (BPLR) by 25 bps to 12.5% with effect from March 5. UBI has also realigned its deposits rates in different maturities.  Bank of Baroda has indicated that it may reduce lending rates by 50 bps from April this year. Allahabad Bank chief KR Kamath said: 'RBI has given a strong signal for reducing rates. We will however wait for a while and see how other banks are reacting to this.'  A top executive with Dena Bank said: 'The decision on lending rate reduction will largely depend on how we manage our cost of funds. Our asset liability committee will take a call soon after examining the market condition.'  Citibank managing director and India head for commercial relationships, Teshwinder Singh, however, expected that banks in general will take the cue from RBI and reduce rates. Reduction is lending rates should be in tanden with reductions in deposit rates, he said.  Interestingly, since the announcement of the RBI s third quarter review in the last week of January, just about 11 banks have reduced their BPLRs ranging from 25 bps to 125 bps. However, all public sector banks and several private sector and foreign banks have reduced their BPLRs in the last few months following several rounds of key interest rate cuts and CRR cuts.  
