SYDNEY: Australian consumer sentiment was subdued in March as a threat of recession fuelled fears of job losses, although monetary and fiscal stimulus brightened the long-term outlook.  Aggressive interest rate cuts and generous government handouts seemed to give consumers enough confidence to buy more houses in January, with demand for mortgages rising for a fourth straight month.  This could only be interpreted as a strong vote of confidence that current policies are providing a strong foundation in the longer term, said Westpac chief economist Bill Evans.  A survey of 1,200 people by Westpac and the Melbourne Institute showed its index of consumer sentiment fell 0.2% to 85.6 in March. That followed a 4.6% drop in February and left the index 3.4% down on March last year.  But the third straight monthly decline was milder than many analysts had expected given the avalanche of grim economic news.  The survey, released yesterday, was taken last week when the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) passed on a chance to cut the 3.25% cash rate at its monthly policy meeting, preferring to wait and assess the impact of recent cuts.  Data released that week also showed Australias economy suffered its first quarterly contraction in eight years.  On the face of it this is a surprisingly good result, said Westpacs Evans. Normally we would have expected a solid fall in the index given the stream of negative news.  The big surprise came with the outlook for the economy over the next five years, where the surveys index jumped 15.2%.  Government data showed the number of home loans rose 3.5% in January from a month earlier. Encouraged by government grants, the share of loans to first home buyers rose to 26.5%, the highest since 1991.  Households are looking forward to the first payments from the Labor governments A$42bil (US$27.6bil) stimulus package, which are due this week and will roll on through April. It follows an earlier A$10.4bil package announced last year.  The significant stimulus has already led to a surge in government borrowings, but Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner said yesterday that projected debt levels were manageable at about 5% of gross domestic product.  Expectations of bonus government welfare payments probably prevented a sharper fall in confidence, said Helen Kevans, economist at JPMorgan. In our view, though, a large portion of these one-off payments will be saved, not spent.  Indeed, the survey found people were more worried about losing their jobs than at any time in the last 10 years.  Reuters  
