The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) could cut rates again in coming months, particularly if the resilience seen recently in the economy starts to falter, economists say.  On Tuesday, the RBA left the cash rate at 3.25 per cent, a 45-year low, with its board citing major initiatives in domestic monetary and fiscal policies in the past few months.  Commonwealth Banksenior economist John Peters said the RBA's decision was a close call, considering that market economists had been split on whether the central bank would ease again.  'It was a line ball but we think the big picture view that they have not finished yet,' Mr Peters said.  'The economy here is showing a lot more resilience than certainly the North American, European and Japanese economies.'  Mr Peters said recent strong data including capital spending, retail sales and construction work done displayed the economy was not tanking like fellow industrial economies.  'It looks like the economy so far has dodged the recessionary bullet,' Mr Peters said.  The central bank has paused to take in the impact of the stimuli in the local economy before moving again, Mr Peters said.  'There is 400 basis points in easing in the cycle, which is probably not impacting to a substantial degree yet,' he said.  'We see another half a per cent to three-quarters to come in the next few months, which would take the cash rate to 2.50 to 2.75 per cent.'  RBC Capital Marketseconomist Su-Lin Ong said she was a little surprised that the RBA left the cash rate unchanged in what was probably a very close decision.  'I suspect the RBA at this juncture is in a wait-and-watch mode,' said Ms Ong, who had predicted a 50 basis point cut before the decision.  'They are encouraged that there are some signs of traction for monetary stimulus here, lending some weight to them holding fire for now.'  Ms Ong said the RBA was concerned about the slowing global economy, and rates were likely to fall to 2.5 per cent eventually.  'I suspect they are leaving ammunition just in case the global backdrop takes another turn for the worse, which is looking inevitable,' she said.  'This is a pause, it's not the end of the easing cycle.'  ANZ Banking Group chief economist Saul Eslake said the RBA's decision was in line with RBA governor Glenn Stevens' testimony before parliament on February 20, when he presented an upbeat outlook on the local economy.  Mr Eslake said how the labour market fared as the economy slowed would be a large consideration in determining future monetary policy moves.  'Although the statement doesn't say this explicitly, I think there is also a concern on their part to have something in the tank which they can they pull out as and when the unemployment rate climbs further,' Mr Eslake said.  'Tactically, they probably do want to be in a position where they can respond as the unemployment rate eventually reaches five or six per cent.  'If they end up cutting the cash rate to one per cent before unemployment has started to rise a lot then they will be in a position where it looks as though they are sitting there not doing anything when unemployment goes up.'  Mr Eslake said he expected the cash rate to bottom out at 2.5 per cent, but added that it would take time to get there.  'While there is a case for doing something (this month), they obviously took the view that there was no hurry,' Mr Eslake said.  Kinetic Securities chief economist Clifford Bennett now expects the RBA to leave rates on hold for the rest of calendar 2009.  'We believe the entire rate cutting cycle is now complete,' he said.  'Today's decision should be seen as more stimulatory than another rate cut would have been,' because it signalled confidence in the economic outlook.  'The decision of the RBA to remain on hold is highly supportive of the Australian dollar, and equity markets.'  
