THE $11 billion avalanche of one-off payments to families, farmers, carers, students and taxpayers begins flowing today, throwing shopkeepers what they hope will be a lifeline.  The otherwise bleak National Australia Bank business survey records a rebound in business confidence (albeit to the level that applied in the 1991 recession) driven, according to the bank, by 'improved retail and wholesaler confidence' ahead of the hand-outs. 'The sectors most likely to benefit from the hand-outs are the ones with improved expectations,' said NAB chief economist Alan Oster.  'But it is noteworthy that these expectations are not being driven by improved conditions. Retail conditions deteriorated in February.'  The NAB business conditions index slid to a new low not seen since June 1992. The bank says there was little in the survey to suggest it had bottomed.  Forward orders and employment expectations have fallen to their lowest level since June 1991.  A separate Access Economics report released today says the earlier $8.7 billion stimulus payment granted retailers 'a reprieve', but even so, 'the economic backdrop continues to get uglier and these measures are likely to only result in real retail spending treading water'.  'The bonus payments in the nation-building package will provide a support for retailers, but against an underlying deteriorating trend,' said Access director David Rumbens. 'Retail recovery might have to wait until 2010-11.'  Both Access and NAB expect unemployment to peak at 7.5 per cent, above the Government's forecast of 7 per cent. Official figures out tomorrow are expected to show that the rate climbed to 5 per cent in February.  The ANZ's job advertisement count plunged a further 10 per cent in February, to be down 40 per cent over the year. Newspaper job advertisements are down 55 per cent over the year.  'This is the worst outcome on this record,' said ANZ economist Warren Hogan.  'It suggests the downturn is likely to last throughout 2009, with little prospect of a meaningful recovery before 2010. It suggests the economy entered recession in late 2008 and remains in recession.'  In Parliament, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd defended the stimulus payments by saying, 'Whetherit is the International Monetary Fund, the Business Council or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, every responsible mainstream business organisation stands up with the Government to say that in this time of national economic emergency, a global economic recession which is washing across Australia, this is the time for governments to engage in temporary deficit and temporary borrowing in order to provide economic stimulus.'  Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull said there was no evidence that the December $8.7 billion cash splash had created 'a single job'.  The NAB is now forecasting that the Australian economy will contract 1 per cent this year, about the same as the global economy. It expects the US to contract 2.75 per cent.  
