PRIVATE health insurers have been given the go-ahead to increase premiums by an average of about six per cent from April 1 this year.  Federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon announced the increase today - premiums rose by an average of 4.99 per cent last year.   The hikes come as the Reserve Bank meets tomorrow with another interest rate cut deemed certain by economists and Treasurer Wayne Swan warned today deteriorating economic conditons among our major trading partners could hurt Australia.  Mr Swan said seven of Australia's 10 major trading partners were now in recession and Australia could no longer be immune from the impact this would have on its own economic growth.  The health funds had warned premiums could rise by as much as 10 per cent, arguing the Rudd government's changes to the Medicare levy surcharge last October would spark an exodus of members.   But in the three months to December 2008, private health membership grew by 54,000 people, or 0.1 percentage points, to hit its highest level in seven years.   Under the changes to the surcharge, the income levels at which the tax kicks in for people without private health insurance rose from $50,000 to $70,000 for singles, and $100,000 to $140,000 for couples.   Some 44.8 per cent of Australians have private health insurance.   Ms Roxon acknowledged the six per cent increase would put a strain on household budgets. 'Any increase puts pressure on families,' she said. 'However, the government was determined to restrict increases to the minimum necessary to meet legal requirements, including maintaining the solvency of insurers.' Ms Roxon said she knocked back applications for larger premium increases from several funds. 'Without that close scrutiny, premium rises would have been higher for up to eight million Australians,' she said. 'This year's increase is the result of increased benefits paid to patients, rising health service costs, and investment losses from the global financial crisis.' The increase would on average raise the cost of a combined hospital and general treatment policy (ancillary or extras) for a family by about $3 a week, after allowing for the 30 per cent rebate.   Premiums rose by an average of 6.63 per cent in the last five years of the Howard government, Ms Roxon said.   Medibank Private will lift premiums by an average of 5.74 per cent, which equates to about $1.40 a week.   A Medibank spokeswoman said that with the fund's health costs running at nine per cent and utilisation continuing to climb, the increase was responsible. 'Medibank is endeavouring to shield members from the full impact of rising costs through responsible management and smart purchasing of health services,' she said. 'With global economic conditions producing investment losses and a slowdown in membership growth, 5.74 per cent represents a prudent balance between ensuring we can cover the costs of claiming and keeping health insurance affordable.' Meanwhile, the central bank is tipped to cut interest rates to a record low level in March, as the effects of the global downturn threaten to really hit the domestic economy.   Thirteen of 16 economists surveyed by AAP expect the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to cut the cash rate after tomorrow's monthly board meeting.   The median forecast was for a 50 basis point rate cut, which would take the cash interest rates to a record low of 2.75 per cent when the RBA announces its decision at 2.30pm tomorrow.   The RBA has already slashed interest rates by 400 basis points since September.   Interest rates fell to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent in February following a 100 basis point rate cut.   A 50 basis point cut this week will send the cash rate under the all time low monthly average rate of 2.89 per cent seen in January 1960.   While domestic business data is still strong, many economists say deteriorating conditions among Australia's key trading partners will weigh on the domestic economy in future months.   More optimistic analysts say the recent run of rate cuts and $52 billion in federal government stimulus programs will support local demand.   RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong said a 50 basis point rate cut in March was a close call, with the RBA near the end of its easing cycle. 'It's going to be a close decision,' she said. 'It's pretty clear from the RBA that they are very reluctant to cut any more, but the reason we think a move is justified is the global downturn has worsened since the last board meeting.' Forecast strategist Mike Katz said the RBA would cut by 50 basis points in March before unemployment levels rose sharply. 'The labour market has held up so far,' he said. 'The RBA will want to get rates as stimulatory as possible before that pessimistic data starts to be released.' UBS senior economist George Tharenou said the prospect of a technical recession - measured by two consecutive quarters of negative economic growth - in the first half of 2009 justified the need for a 50 basis point cut this week. 'We expect the RBA to lean against the deteriorating global backdrop and try to support domestic growth and limit the extent of the downturn,' he said. However, ANZ economist Riki Polygenis said the economy was yet to feel the full effects of the large RBA rate cuts since September and that reinforced the case for a smaller 25 basis point rate cut in March. 'We think now the RBA clearly has rates at an expansionary setting,' Ms Polygenis said. 'It's a good idea for them to keep some in reserve in case the economy deteriorates more sharply later in the year.' Australian Bureau of Statistics data released last week showed capital expenditure by business surged six per cent in the December quarter, a much better result than market forecasts for a three per cent decline.   AMP Capital Investors chief economist Shane Oliver, who is also tipping a 25 basis point cut in March, said while the Australian economy was holding up well, a slowdown in the economies of the nation's key trading partners would prompt the RBA to keep cutting rates. 'On the one hand, domestic demand is stronger than expected ... but the global case has been unrelentingly bad and far worse than the Reserve Bank have been factoring in for their figures, particularly countries we trade with like Japan, South Korea and China,' Dr Oliver said. Japan, one of Australia's biggest trading partners, is experiencing its worst recession in three decades, with a slowdown in the global economy causing its exports to fall by 46 per cent in the year to January.   The Australian government has already announced two fiscal stimulus programs, worth a combined $52 billion, to shield the economy from the effects of a possible recession.   From April, farmers, students and low to middle-income earners are due to receive $900 cheques as part of a $12 billion fiscal allocation from the Rudd government's second $42 billion stimulus package.   RBA governor Glenn Stevens told a parliamentary hearing in Canberra earlier in February that big rate cuts, fiscal stimulus programs and a weaker Australian dollar would help support domestic demand in 2009.   Citigroup managing director of economics Paul Brennan said the his remarks indicated rates would be left on hold in March. 'They probably want to keep their powder dry for the bad news in the local economy over the next six months,' Mr Brennan said. Commonwealth Bank chief economist Michael Blythe, who also expects rates to stay on hold in March, said the large rate cuts at the end of 2008 were already working to stimulate consumer spending and the housing market. 'Recent RBA commentary seems to imply they have a desire to take a step back and allow time for what they've done to flow through,' he said. ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said while the RBA was likely to cut rates by 50 basis points in March, there was a good chance rates would be raised again by the end of 2009. 'There's very little justification to hold the cash rate that low for so long,' he said. Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan said today that Australia's economic growth would be affected as the nation's major trading partners struggle with recession.   He said about seven of Australia's top 10 trading partners are now in recession. 'This will have a dramatic impact on growth in Australia in the December quarter,' he said in Sydney.   While Australia was not immune to the effects of the global financial crisis, the government had moved to lessen the damage, Mr Swan said. 'This is why the government put in place last October our economic security strategy - to cushion Australia from the impact of what has become quite a savage global recession. 'It's very important as we go through this period to understand that if you're going to be in any country in the world in this situation, Australia is where you'd want to be, but we're certainly not immune from this global recession.'  What is this?   
