SYDNEY, March 10 (Reuters) - Australian business conditions in February were the toughest since the recession of the early 1990s, a survey showed on Tuesday, with falling sales and profits leading firms to cut employment at an ever faster pace.   The grim report will add to pressure for further economic stimulus, after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) skipped a chance to ease at its March policy meeting.   The monthly survey of over 400 firms from National Australia Bank found employment intentions fell by the most in the history of the series, auguring ill for the official jobs report due on Thursday.   NAB's measure of business conditions dropped 9 points to -20, a level not seen since 1992. Sales and profits both slid, while the employment index sank 10 points to -27.   'The readings on employment are lower than any since June 1991 and imply considerable job shedding -- which is clearly much worse than is so far evident in the (government) statistician's estimates,' said Alan Oster, group chief economist at NAB. Analysts expect the official labour report to show a drop of around 20,000 in February. The jobless rate is seen rising to 5.0 percent, the highest in almost three years, from 4.8 percent in January and a trough of 3.9 percent in February last year.   NAB's survey did find an improvement in confidence, with that index rising 10 points, albeit to a still recessionary -22.   'That is very much driven from improved expectations in the retail and wholesale sectors,' said Oster. 'In turn, those sectors are the ones most likely to benefit from the next round of Government cash handouts.'   The first payments from the Labor government's A$42 billion ($26 billion) fiscal stimulus package are due later this month.   Yet firms also reported a further drop in forward orders, with that index down 7 points to -27.   'The forward orders situation is increasingly a concern,' said Oster, who fears the economy will shrink again this quarter.   Gross domestic product (GDP) fell 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, when compared to the previous quarter, and another contraction this quarter would officially put Australia into recession.   As a result, Oster felt the central bank would have to cut interest rates again.   'Our reading of the RBA's recent 'non-move' is as an attempt to preserve ammunition for a time when things get worse,' argued Oster. 'Clearly they also want time to see the outcome of their past actions and the government's upcoming second round of cash payments.'   'We are strongly of the view that the RBA is paused, not finished,' he added, and sees rates bottoming at 2 percent late this year. 
