: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  THE Australian economy's rapid deterioration is likely to force the Reserve Bank to resume cutting interest rates as soon as next month.  With the economy shrinking sooner - and faster - than expected, investors and economists said a cut was back on the RBA's April agenda.  Only 24 hours earlier this looked improbable, when the Reserve's Governor Glenn Stevens indicated rates were on hold for the time being.  Not only is the RBA likely to cut sooner, it may go lower for longer.  'The April RBA board meeting is live,' ANZ Bank's head of Australian economics and interest rate research Warren Hogan said yesterday.  While that is good news for home owners - already enjoying the lowest mortgage rates since Robert Menzies was Prime Minister - it is a direct result of bad news on the economy.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics yesterday revealed that real gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 0.5 per cent in the December quarter, when predictions were for growth of 0.2 per cent. It is the first time the economy has contracted in eight years.  NSW recorded the weakest economic performance, along with South Australia.  The GDP figures were so bad and so surprising the share market fell more than 1 per cent in the half hour after the release of the data at 11.30am, and the Australian dollar shed nearly US1c.  The nation will be in a technical recession should the next quarterly GDP figures also be negative - now the prevailing view among economists. 'The downturn has arrived,' NAB senior economist David de Garis said.  The economy grew at an annual pace of just 0.3 per cent in 2008, the slowest rate since 1991, when Australia was last in the depths of recession.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said it was impossible for the economy to 'swim against the tide' of the global recession, while Treasurer Wayne Swan said the result was 'sobering'.  'There is absolutely no doubt that things in this country would have been far worse had the Government not acted when we did with the economic security strategy announced last October,' Mr Swan said.  But economists said the Government would probably have to provide further financial support to keep activity from stalling.  'We anticipate a further substantial fiscal stimulus from the Budget in May,' Westpac's head of economics Bill Evans said.  HSBC's chief economist John Edwards said: 'One comforting thing is that while we had a pretty weak December quarter, we came out of it without a major decline in employment.  'Employers have had so much trouble finding good people over the past five or six years that they are reluctant to let them go.'  The RBA defied predictions by leaving interest rates unchanged on Tuesday.  Yesterday the likelihood of a 50 basis point cut shot back to 97 per cent. The market also predicted rates were much more likely to fall to 2 per cent. They are currently 3.25 per cent.  
