THE Reserve Bank of New Zealand gave the economy a further boost today, cutting the official cash rate by another 50 basis points to a record low 3.0 per cent, but said it now expected the rapid easing of monetary policy to slow. Reserve Bank of New Zealand governor Alan Bollard. Picture: Bloomberg 'As economic activity troughs, we expect the rapid easing of monetary policy to slow. Any future cuts will be much smaller than observed recently,' said Reserve Bank governor Alan Bollard in his quarterly monetary policy statement.   Mr Bollard said he doesn't expect 'to see in New Zealand the near-zero policy rates of some countries' as it needs to retain competitiveness in the international capital markets. 'We will assess the need for further cuts in the OCR against emerging developments in the global and domestic economies and the responses to policy changes already in place,' he said. Mr Bollard told journalists after the announcement that the RBNZ's current projections were consistent with the OCR troughing at 2.5 per cent, although he wouldn't rule out 2.0 per cent if economic conditions worsened.   On the back of Mr Bollard's comments, the market has now moved to price in another cut of 25 basis points in April and again in June.   Mr Bollard said today's move brings RBNZ's cuts since July to 525 basis points, 'taking interest rates to very stimulatory levels'. The central bank opted for aggressive easing after New Zealand slipped into a recession early last year for the first time in more than a decade.   Economists agree the central bank will now likely pull back to some degree as it monitors the situation. 'Much lower rates are unlikely with special regard to maintaining competitiveness in global capital markets,' said Goldman Sachs JBWere senior economist Shamubeel Eaqub.   UBS Senior Economist Robin Clements said if the world looks like it is stabilising and/or the domestic economy shows some signs of responding to the collective economic stimulus, then the central bank could drop back to cuts of 25 basis points in April and 25 basis points in June. However, 'at this stage we stick with our existing view for another 50bp easing next month, largely on the basis that if it is deemed to be necessary to cut rates at all, it will likely require 50bp to make a difference i.e. better sooner rather than later,' he said. The New Zealand dollar strengthened after the rate decision, trading at US51.32c compared with US50.62c prior to the announcement. Bonds sold off, with yields rising between 5 and 8 basis points. Swap rates initially rose between 8 and 16 basis points before settling back to between 4 and 9 basis points higher.   Economists also agreed, however, that the RBNZ may be overly optimistic regarding the international financial situation and when it expects the New Zealand economy to begin to pull out of recession.   Mr Bollard said that while monetary and fiscal policy responses have been substantial in many countries, 'we still expect the adverse economic forces generated by the crisis to remain dominant throughout 2009'. He said the impact of difficult trading conditions was showing clearly in reduced export revenues, weak business sentiment and sharply curtailed investment and employment.   However, while Mr Bollard was more pessimistic about 2009 he was guardedly upbeat about 2010.   In the 12 months to March 31, 2009, the economy is now forecast to contract 2.2 per cent, then to grow 3.2 per cent the following year, compared with an expected contraction of 0.3 per cent and growth of 2.7 per cent in the December forecasts.   The economy is then expected to expand 4.6 per cent in the year to March 2011.   Mr Bollard said stimulatory interest rates combined with a large amount of stimulus from fiscal policy, together with the sizable exchange rate depreciation, will act to support the New Zealand economy. 'Therefore, we expect to see activity troughing in the middle of this year and then gradually picking up thereafter,' said Mr Bollard. He cautioned, however, that 'the scale of the global financial crisis is such that there is great uncertainty about future economic developments'. As a result, the recovery may occur later and be more protracted than anticipated, he said.   ASB economist Jane Turner said the central bank's growth outlook was 'optimistic given the nature of the credit crisis and the expected downturn in trading partner demand'. While she is now picking the official cash rate to trough at 2.5 per cent, she said the RBNZ will likely have to revise down future growth forecasts and therefore 'there remains a possibility of the cash rate still going to 2 per cent'. 
