SYDNEY, March 10 (Reuters) - Australian job advertisements in newspapers and on the Internet plunged by a record in February, a survey showed on Tuesday, suggesting a significant rise in unemployment was on the horizon.  The slide will only fuel worries that official employment figures on Thursday would show long-awaited weakness, adding to the case for further cuts in interest rates.  The survey from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp  showed the total number of job advertisements sank 10.4 percent in February from the month before, to an average 161,583 a week.  That was the largest fall since the combined newspaper and internet series began in 1999 and left total ads down 39.8 percent on February last year. 'The trends in job advertising in Australia suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate is likely,' said Warren Hogan, ANZ's head of Australian economics.  He sees the jobless rate reaching 6.5 percent by the end of this year and 7.5 percent by mid-2010.  Analysts expect the official labour report to show the jobless rate rose to 5.0 percent in February, the highest in almost three years, from 4.8 percent in January and a trough of 3.9 percent in February last year.  The survey showed the number of job advertisements in major metropolitan newspapers slid 25.2 percent in February, more than wiping out January's 12.3 percent bounce. Ads were down 55.4 percent on February last year, the biggest drop since the series began in the mid 1970s.  Advertising on the Internet dropped by 9.4 percent, on top of a 7.3 percent decline in January, to average 153,059. That was 36.4 percent lower than the same month last year. 'The current downturn in the economy is likely to last throughout 2009, with little prospect of a meaningful recovery before 2010,' said Hogan. Which is one reason why investors anticipate further cuts in interest rates even though the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) signalled its desire to pause by skipping a chance to ease at its policy meeting this month.  Markets are pricing in a cash rate near 2 percent later this year, from the already record low of 3.25 percent currently. The RBA has cut the rate by 4 percentage points since September as the economy slipped ever closer to recession. (Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by James Thornhill) 
