Article from: AAP  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  THE dollar has opened higher for a sixth straight day after better-than-expected economic data and positive US equity markets kept the currency above $US0.6600.  At 7am AEDT, the dollar was trading at $US0.6616/20, up from yesterday's close of $US0.6598/02.  It was the strongest start to the local session since February 10, when the unit began the local trading day at $US0.6783/87.  During the offshore session, the unit moved between a low of $US0.6566 and a high of $US0.6617.  The dollar remained above $US0.6600 for most of the offshore session after the release of positive housing data in the UK and US, as well as an improvement in a key German economic survey.  A rally on US equity markets late in the New York session gave the dollar further support.  Bank of New Zealand currency strategist Danica Hampton said the upbeat economic news helped support risk appetite.  'We've seen, on balance, the economic data has tended to surprise on the upside so I think that's helped investor confidence a little bit,' Ms Hampton said from Wellington.  UK government data showed house prices fell 3.9 per cent in the three months to January, which was lower than the 5.2 per cent recorded in the three months to October last year.  In the US, the number of housing starts increased for the first time in eight months in February, rising 22.2 per cent in the month.  The German ZEW survey of investor confidence rose to minus-3.5 index points in March, up from minus-5.8 points the previous month.  In New York, the S&amp;P500 index and NASDAQ both climbed more than three per cent, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up about two per cent.  Ms Hampton said growing expectations of a Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) interest rate cut in March limited any potential move higher.  'I think there is increasingly, in the wake of yesterday's RBA minutes, talk about a possible rate cut at the next meeting,' Ms Hampton said.  'I think that just tempered appetite a little bit for the Aussie.'  In terms of local economic data, the Westpac-Melbourne Institute indexes of economic activity for March was due for release today.  Ms Hampton said she expected the local currency to trade between $US0.6580 and $US0.6620 during today's local session.  'There is a risk it might break above that if we do see Asian equities take off again, but in the absence of that I think we'll probably just be trading sideways,' she said.  
