The Australian dollar opened higher in early Wednesday trading.  The rise followed a Citigroup announcement that it had operated profitably in the first two months of 2009 lifted investor sentiment towards higher risk assets such as equities and commodity-based currencies, prompting an unexpected rally on Wall Street.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6436/40, up from Monday's local close of $US0.6382/86.  During the overnight session, the unit moved between $US0.6385 and $US0.6475.  In a memo to staff, Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit said the US bank had been profitable for the first two months of 2009 and was having its 'best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007'.  Wall Street rallied on the news.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 5.7 per cent and the S&amp;P 500 index was 6.3 per cent higher.  A corporate dealer with online currency trader OzForex, Darren Richardson, said investor confidence rose following the Citigroup announcement, lifting demand for equities and commodity currencies.  'It was an internal memo from the head of Citigroup, saying they will be posting a profit in the first quarter of 2009,' Richardson said from Toronto.  'That strong potential result for Citigroup saw financial stocks higher.  'People were moving away from the US dollar safe-house buying trade and there was an increase in risk-appetite trades.'  Richardson said the Australian dollar rise had been constrained by falls in commodity prices, particularly oil and gold.  'That has contributed to the breakdown in the Aussie dollar in the later part of the session,' Richardson said.  Local data due for release on Wednesday includes the Westpac/Melbourne Institute survey of consumer sentiment for March and housing finance commitments for January.  Markets forecast approvals for home loans to rise three per cent in January, following a 6.4 per cent increase the month before. The Australian Bureau of Statistics releases the data at 1130 AEDT.  The Australian data would have minimal impact on the local dollar, however, Richardson said, with market sentiment to be taken from the performance of Asian equities on Wednesday.  Richardson forecast the Australian dollar to trade between $US0.6400 and $US0.6450.  
