THE Australian market looks set to drop into new negative territory today, pulled down by a slumping US share market and fears of a creeping nationalisation of ailing bank Citigroup. Brokers work the floor of the New York Stock Exchange at the trading post of Citigroup There is also uncertainty about what change, if any, the Reserve Bank of Australia board will make tomorrow to official interest rates at its monthly meeting. Observers predict a range of options: from the RBA pausing at 3.25 per cent to analyse the effect of its recent actions, to a 100 basis point cut.   The March futures contract on the S&amp;P/ASX 200 index dropped at the weekend by 40 points to 3276, cracking the 3300 support level that had been the baseline for two modest rallies since November 20.   The Dow Jones Industrial Average shed 119 points on Friday to cap off Wall Street's worst February since 1933, a drop of 12 per cent in the four-week month and reaching a low not seen since April 1997. Despite the falls on Wall Street, CommSec chief economist Craig James believes the Australian market is 'not following the US religiously'. Although the market might be down 15-20 points, there were plenty of good reasons for investors to return to the market, he said.   The RBA was likely to pause tomorrow when it met, Mr James said, with a significant amount of stimulus recently applied to the economy. 'We think they have a good reason to sit on the sidelines as they have consistently cut rates since September last year. 'At some point they are going to have to pause -- the amount by which interest rates have been cut in such a short space of time is unprecedented.' Mr James said he had heard that plenty of companies were in 'pretty good shape' to weather the downturn and that many were benefiting in the environment.   Smart ones would look to take market share from competitors in the downturn, he said, and many firms had spent time and money hiring talent in the past year. 'The last thing they want to do is exit them straight away,' Mr James said. NAB Capital head of research Peter Jolly said the RBA could afford to cut 50 basis points from the cash rate, although there was much uncertainty about tomorrow's meeting.   A cut of 50 points would allow for a further reduction in mortgage rates, Mr Jolly said, which could see the standard variable mortgage rate at between 5.3 and 5.4 per cent -- the lowest since the 1960s.   The economic data from last week were quite good, Mr Jolly said, and the Reserve could choose to leave rates where they were. 'The economy is soft, it is not falling off a cliff,' Mr Jolly said. 'If they wanted to do nothing, they could justifiably do that.' Gross domestic product data for the fourth quarter will be released on Wednesday and both Mr Jolly and Mr James said Australia could post a small positive number. 'Australia has some chance of making itself unique as numbers everywhere (around the world) have collapsed,' Mr Jolly said. 'Although it feels like the data is old, I wouldn't dismiss it, even if it is flat or reveals small growth. It does highlight how Australia has weathered the downturn.' In its quarterly report due tomorrow, government commodities forecaster ABARE is expected to downgrade forecasts for the nation's mining and energy revenue as the global economic crisis stunts demand growth and prices.   In its previous quarterly report, released in December, ABARE dropped its 2008-09 forecast for resources exports from $180 billion to $159 billion and said it expected a gradual global economic recovery late in 2009.   Since then, however, production volume estimates for coal, the nation's biggest export earner, and base metals have been slashed further, prices have remained depressed and prospects of a global recovery have become more distant. 
