The Australian dollar traded near a one-month high as equities rallied, prompting investors to buy higher-yielding assets.  The dollar touched the highest in two months versus the yen as stronger-than-forecast home starts in the US and prospects of increased stimulus spending by the Bank of Japan fueled optimism the global economy may be stabilising.  ''The Australian dollar looks pretty solid with equities performing well,'' said Paul Milton, chief foreign-exchange dealer at Societe Generale Australia. ''There seems to be firm selling interest around the 66.30 US cents area, which might cap the Aussie in the short-term,'' he said, using the currency's nickname.  Australia's dollar was at 66.15 US cents in afternoon trade from 66.19 cents late in New York yesterday. It earlier touched 66.30 cents, near the one-month high of 66.38 reached March 16. The currency fell 0.3% to 65.05 yen and earlier bought 65.50 yen, the most since Jan. 8.  The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index has rebounded 15% from a 12-year low on March 9, triggered by optimism that the worst of the financial crisis was over after Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. said they were profitable in the first two months of the year.  The dollar is trading close to its 100-day moving average of 66.25 US cents and could retest February highs on a sustained break above that level, Westpac Banking Corp. wrote in a research note yesterday.  Moving average  ''The Australian dollar has failed to make a sustained break above the 100-day moving average since the onset of the downtrend in the middle of last year,'' wrote a team led by Sydney-based Robert Rennie, chief currency strategist at Westpac.  A move above that level ''would pave the way for a test of the early February highs around the 68 US cent level and potentially beyond to early January highs around the mid 72 cent level,'' they wrote.  Australian government bonds were little changed with the yield on 10-year notes at 4.35%, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
