CONFIDENCE in shares and property -- staples of Australian investment -- is at its lowest level ever, as risk-averse investors dump their savings into bank accounts.  The Westpac-Melbourne Institute Consumer Sentiment Index report shows that just 6.7 per cent of Australians believe it would be wise to invest their savings in shares, down from 7.9 per cent a year ago and a new low for the 34-year survey.   Before the global financial meltdown, an average of 20 per cent of Australians felt the equity market was their best bet.   Property, once the darling of local investors, also appears to beout of favour. Only 15 per centof Australians say it is the wisest place for their money, compared with an average of 24.3 per cent since data collection began in 1974.   However, investors' preference for property is up slightly since December, when it hit a record low of 13.4 per cent.   When combined, confidence in shares and property has fallen to its lowest level of 21.7 per cent, compared with an average of 39 per cent for the survey.   During the 2004-07 bull market, the combined preference for shares and property reached highs of 50 per cent, as equity markets rose consistently and property prices boomed.   Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the sharp drop in confidence showed how risk-averse most investors had become. 'It is saying investors are concerned about the future. They have become extremely risk-averse and that is obviously in response to devastating losses on shares and property,' he said. More than $490 billion has been wiped from the value of local listed stocks in the past year, with Australia's benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 index down more than 37 per cent.   It closed 1.9 per cent higher yesterday, at 3244.4.   The economic turmoil has also hit investor confidence in superannuation, with only 2.9 per cent of Australians considering it the right place for their money, down from 5.3 per cent this time last year. This follows an average loss of 21 per cent from the balances of Australian default superannuation funds last year.   Mr Evans said consumers now preferred to pay down debt and put their money in banks, rather than investing in the tumultuous share market. 'Bank deposits have pretty much doubled from 15 per cent to 32.8 per cent. Paying down debt used to run around 10 per cent, but that has gone to 23.4 per cent,' he said. However, an increasing number of Australians -- 7.7 per cent -- are spending their savings, suggesting the Rudd Government's message that purchases will stimulate the economy is getting through.   In December, only 3.8 per cent believed spending their savings was a wise move.   The Westpac-Melbourne Institute report shows overall consumer sentiment fell slightly, from 85.8 points in February to 85.6 points in March, amid fears of a recession and job losses.   The index remained below 100 points, the level at which pessimists outweigh optimists, for the 14th straight month. 
