The Australian dollar has closed higher despite giving up some of its overnight gains following softer commodities prices.  At 1700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6472/73 up from Wednesday's close of $US0.6430/33.  During the day, the unit moved between $US0.6469 and $US0.6523.  Nomura Australia chief economist Stephen Roberts said traders fled to the US dollar following weaker commodities prices.  He said a less than expected interest rate cut in New Zealand also hurt the Australian dollar during intraday trade. 'A negative factor has been a softness in commodity prices which have been mostly softer over the past 24 hours and the Bank of New Zealand has cut their cash rate, but less than expected, to 50 basis points,' he said. 'That carried into the Australian dollar temporarily ... keeping the Aussie in a tight range in the course of the trading day here.' The Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut its official cash rate to 3.0 per cent from 3.5 per cent at its board meeting on Thursday.  Locally, the Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force report showed the nation's jobless rate at its highest since March 2005.  The unemployment rate was a seasonally adjusted 5.2 per cent in February, up from 4.8 per cent in January. '(The report) was so mixed,' Mr Roberts said. 'The initial reaction was employment was better than expected because it rose a touch, but the underlying themes running throughout the report were really pretty weak.' 'In any case, the unemployment rate is rising fast.' He said the Australian dollar will probably suffer slightly in Thursday night's (AEDT) trade following the release of US retail and inventories data. 'Sales have been falling faster than inventories which is a problem for the growth outlook in the US,' he said. 'The risk is that you're going to get a pretty soft set of readings and that may just cut into the optimism that has built into the US equity market. 'If that's the case, then risk aversion comes to the fore again and the Aussie dollar is likely to soften a touch.' At 1600 AEDT, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index was at 54.9, up from Wednesday's close of 54.8.  2009 AAP Brought to you by 
