CANBERRA -(Dow Jones)- Australian retail sales growth will likely remain anemic until at least the second half of next year - despite the impact of recent federal government stimulus - as consumers trim back spending amid a rapidly slowing domestic and global economy, according to consultancy Access Economics.  The Canberra-based think-tank said Wednesday that inflation-adjusted real retail sales will likely rise by 0.8% in the year ending June 30, 2009, followed by growth of just 0.2% in 2009-10.  Although Access Economics expects a A$41.5 billion fiscal stimulus package unveiled by the federal government last month to help retailers 'tread water' in the March and June quarters, the risks are firmly skewed to the downside as unemployment rises and asset prices fall. 'The real pain on profits and on jobs is just around the corner,' Access Economics Director   David Rumbens  said in a statement. 'Overall, our expectation is that the next 18 months will see a flat real retail sales profile,' he said. The forecaster noted that the Reserve Bank of Australia's recent aggressive easing in official interest rates to a 45-year low of 3.25% has benefited the mortgage belt across Australia.  However, job losses 'will temper any flow on effects for retailers', with Australia's unemployment rate forecast by Treasury to rise to 7% by the June quarter of 2010. 'That means a big loss of labor income, and will serve to keep consumers ultra cautious with any spare cash they may have,' Rumbens said. Access Economics expects consumers to save, rather than spend, the majority of the cash bonuses unveiled in the latest stimulus package. Of the around A$12 billion in one-off cash payments, it expects just A$500 million to be spent in the March quarter and A$1.6 billion in the June quarter.  A key risk to retail sales in the period ahead is the housing market. If house prices fall dramatically, rather than the expected modest retreat, the outcome for retailers will be 'notably worse' than currently forecast, Rumbens said.  On average, house prices fell by 3% in 2008 and Access Economics expects a further retreat of around 5%-10% in 2009.   -By   Rachel Pannett  , Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-6208-0901; rachel.pannett@ dowjones.com   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-09-092142ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
