Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan says the contraction in global demand has been savage but is adamant Australia will emerge from the financial crisis stronger than ever.  Mr Swan said the effects of the government's $42 billion economic security package were yet to flow through to the economy.  The national accounts showed gross domestic product dropped 0.5 per cent in the December quarter - the first negative result in eight years.  Over the year to December, GDP rose 0.3 per cent.  The treasurer said on Wednesday said the inevitable impact of the global recession was clearly evident in the data.  But he said the federal government and the Reserve Bank of Australia had acted swiftly to support economic activity and jobs precisely at the time in the December quarter when there was a very sharp global contraction.  There is absolutely no doubt that things in this country would have been far worse had the government not acted when we did with the economic security strategy announced last October, he said.  Mr Swan said there was a lot of stimulus to flow through the economy in the coming months.  We're still yet to see the full impact of the economic security strategy.  It began to flow through the last three weeks of December, it will flow the early parts of this year.  Mr Swan said the $42 billion nation building and jobs plan would provide substantial fiscal stimulus.  I've heard some throwing around a line that somehow the government has spent all this money and it hasn't had the impact, he said.  The fact is the $42 billion package hasnt begun (to flow) and it is designed to flow through over the next two years, precisely as it turns out at the time it is needed.  Mr Swan denied that the figures showed that a large part of the government's $10.4 billion stimulus package had gone into peoples savings.  The main reason for the boost to savings was the 300-basis points cut in interest rates for the period in question, he said.  I think the principal cause of the increase in the savings rate... are people who are at this stage saving the benefit that has come to them through a very substantial reduction in their mortgage repayments, he said.  However, Mr Swan conceded some of the economic security strategy may have ended up in savings accounts.  Yes it may be that there is some part of the economic security strategy which has been saved, and we said at the time that wouldn't be a bad thing.  Mr Swan said it was inevitable that what was happening in the rest of the world would have a dramatic impact in Australia.  He said when growth contracted, it had human consequences.  You could see it in the eyes of those people who were retrenched from Pacific Brands the other day.You can feel it and hear it in the voices of people you talk to, he said.  It means a very significant economic challenge for our country.  Mr Swan said this placed the responsibility on government to do all it could to buttress growth and support businesses and employment.  Our responsibility in this environment is to do everything we can to cushion the Australian people from the full impacts of this global recession, he said.  If we don't do that it will be longer, it will be harder and it will have even more tragic human consequences.  Mr Swan said the decline in economic growth will have an impact on the May budget.  There will be further flowthroughs I should imagine ... and that is a measure of the magnitude of the events we're dealing with, he said.  It does have implications for priorities in the budget.  That's why we are going into a temporary deficit principally, nothing to do with the spending of the stimulus packages, although that is a small bit on top.  Mr Swan said the government was still committed to implementing the emissions trading scheme by 2010.  The sooner we act on this the least cost it actually imposes and the greater certainty it gives to investment in our economy.  
