 UK bank HSBC made a massive cash call while European shares slip on AIG loss news. By Reuters March 02, 2009 * AIG scores record U.S. quarterly loss  * HSBC calls on shareholders for $18 bln  * Euro zone manufacturer data shows recession biting  * AIG woes pump up dollar on safety buying  * European shares down sharply   (For more on the financial crisis, click)  LONDON, March 2 - European share markets dived as insurer AIG posted the biggest quarterly loss in U.S. corporate history and heard it would get another multi-billion-dollar U.S. taxpayer handout, while UK bank HSBC made a massive cash call.  Despite the fall in shares across Europe, the dollar spiked up to a three-year high as investors got wind on Sunday of the U.S. government plans to throw a new $30 billion lifeline to American International Group.  AIG, which has already had $150 billion in taxpayer aid, announced a near $62 billion fourth-quarter loss, making its fifth consecutive quarterly loss and bringing the total loss over that timeframe to more than $100 billion.  Traders said news of yet another handout to financial meltdown casualty AIG had sent foreign exchange investors scurrying for perceived safer assets, such as the dollar, while financial shares led European shares down to six year lows. 'The AIG bailout is being looked at closely - there is so much uncertainty out there about how many more bailouts there will be and the dollar at the moment is the main beneficiary,' CMG Markets analyst James Hughes said.  As part of the latest bailout effort, the Fed will reduce a $60 billion credit facility in exchange for taking a preferred interest in AIG subsidiaries American Life Insurance Company and American International Assurance Company Ltd. The credit line will not fall below $25 billion.  BRITAIN'S BIGGEST RIGHTS  HSBC's cash call was Britain's biggest rights issue, tapping shareholders for $18 billion to fix a balance sheet hurt by the global financial crisis.  Europe's largest bank made the cash call at a deep discount to Friday's closing share price after annual profit more than halved as it absorbed the impact of soaring U.S. bad debts.  In a rueful statement HSBC said it was closing most of its U.S. consumer finance business as it puts an end to its $14.8 billion purchase of Household six years ago, by writing off most of the value of the sub-prime business. 'With the benefit of hindsight, this is an acquisition we wish we had not undertaken,' HSBC Chairman Stephen Green said.  Further banging home the impact of worldwide economic slowdown, data showed euro zone manufacturers had their worst month in at least 12 years in February, while outside the 16-nation bloc British manufacturers cut jobs and output at a record pace as export orders dried up.  The already tough environment faced by factories in the euro zone got worse last month, blowing aside signs of stabilisation at the start of the year and reinforcing the case for yet more government and central bank action to boost confidence. 'In January there were signs of stabilisation and that gave some hope that a bottom may have been reached. This and other surveys cast doubt on that and suggest Q1 growth in the euro zone could be as bad as Q4, which was pretty disastrous,' said Dominic Bryant at BNP Paribas.  Data provider Markit said the PMI was consistent with manufacturing output and employment falling at annual rates in the region of 12 and 5 percent respectively, suggesting a dire rate of economic contraction in the current quarter.  Meanwhile France was poised to cut its economic forecasts and concedes that GDP is likely to fall 1.5 percent this year rather than grow, spelling more pain as over 300,000 people are thrown out of work. 'Look for more weakness in GDP in the current and next quarters,' said Kenneth Broux, economist at Lloyd's.  EURO INFLATION UP  Euro zone inflation staged a surprise rebound in February, an estimate showed, but economists said it would soon fall again and the case for a deep European Central Bank interest rate cut on Thursday remained intact. 'Inflation is still on track to turn negative over the summer months and remain well below 2.0 percent throughout 2010, suggesting that the ECB will cut rates to zero, or thereabouts later this year,' said Ben May, economist at Capital Economics.  (Reporting by Reuters bureaus worldwide; Additional reporting by Paritosh Bansal and Jason Subler; Editing by Guy Dresser)   By: Keiron Henderson  Copyright 2009 Reuters.  As per UBM LLC's agreement with Reuters, this story will be removed from this site after 30 days.  digg_skin = 'compact'; digg_topic = 'business_finance'; digg_title = ''; digg_bodytext = 'UK bank HSBC made a massive cash call while European shares slip on AIG loss news.';   Past IssuesSubscribe Past IssuesSubscribe Past IssuesSubscribe
