AUSTRALIA-ECONOMY/ (WRAPUP 1):WRAPUP 1- * Inventories dive in Q4, could tip Australia toward  recession  * Manufacturing activity slumps to record low in Feb  * New home sales climb 8.3 pct in Jan as rates fall  * Market split on chance of RBA rate cut this Tuesday  SYDNEY, March 2 (Reuters) - Australian firms ran down inventories at the fastest pace in 22 years last quarter, dramatically increasing the risk of an outright contraction in the economy and adding to the case for a rate cut this week.  Monday's figures from the government also showed company profits sank 6.5 percent in the fourth quarter, while a private survey showing Australian manufacturing activity hit record lows in February as demand slumped.  'The figures were awful,' said Rob Henderson, chief economist markets at nabCapital. 'We calculate that inventories took around 1.3 percentage points from growth. Without a huge rise from net exports, gross domestic product will be negative.' Inventories fell 1.9 percent in the fourth quarter to A$120.4 billion ($76.2 billion), confounding expectations of a 0.3 percent rise and marking the biggest drop since 1986.  This represented a subtraction from GDP of around A$3.6 billion, or about 1.3 percentage points, when analysts had looked for a drag of just 0.2 percentage points. That was a hard blow since GDP had been expected to have risen by just 0.1 percent in the quarter, from the previous quarter. The data is due on Wednesday, just a day after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) holds its monthly policy meeting.  'It's ugly on the face of it,' said John Peters, a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank. 'It means all the risks are to the downside and GDP could be substantially weaker now.' The Australian dollar fell to a one-month low, although traders said it was focusing more on global risk factors than the data.  Bill futures slipped on a media report suggesting the central bank would leave rates on hold this week.  The risk of a sizable fall in GDP could prompt the central bank to cut its 3.25 percent cash rate at its meeting on Tuesday, even though it has been hinting at a pause after lowering its cash rate by 400 basis points since September.  WHY WAIT?  'We had thought they might skip March and move again in April,' said Peters. 'But with numbers like these, and dismal news abroad, you have to wonder why they would wait.'  The market has sharply scaled back the prospect of a rate cut this week, in part due to media speculation the RBA had decided to wait and gauge the impact of past stimulus.  Lower mortgage rates are helping stabilise the housing market. Figures on new home sales on Monday showed an 8.3 percent jump in January, while demand for home loans has also improved.  But both the European Central Bank and the Bank of England are expected to ease at their policy meetings on Thursday.  Japan, Australia's single largest export market, saw its economy shrink by an annualised 13.7 percent last quarter, while United States economy contracted by 6.2 percent, the sharpest drop since 1982.  Australia's Treasurer, Wayne Swan, sounded like he feared the worse when talking to reporters on Monday.  'We now have a situation where seven out of our top 10 trading partners are in recession, this will have a dramatic impact on growth in Australia in the December quarter,' he said.  An industry survey showed Australian manufacturing activity slumped to record lows in February with weakness in new orders and output leading to an alarming fall in employment.  The Australian Industry Group/PriceWaterhouseCoopers Performance of Manufacturing Index (PMI) slid 4.9 points to 31.7 in February, far below the 50 threshold separating growth from contraction.  'The growing impact of the global crisis is now being felt acutely by the manufacturing sector,' said Ai Group chief executive Heather Ridout. 'Demand for exports has fallen and domestic, business and consumer confidence is very fragile.'  NO DEFLATION HERE  To further complicate the rate outlook, a private gauge of Australian inflation surged in February as weakness in the local currency fed higher import prices.  The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute monthly inflation gauge rose 0.7 percent in February, on top of a 0.8 percent jump in January. That was the biggest back-to-back increase in the six-and-a-half year history of the series.  The high result suggested the danger of deflation in Australia was a distant one and could be seen by the central bank as one reason to skip an easing this week.  'As a result, the RBA may pause in the interest rate cutting cycle as it waits for the current fiscal and monetary stimulus to work through the economy,' said Stephen Koukoulas, global strategist at TD.  'That said, the catastrophic global economic climate means that at some stage, further RBA rate cuts will be needed.'  (Editing by Neil Fullick)  Copyright 2009 Reuters, Click for Restriction
