 Worries about the depth of the global downturn, spurred by more bad news about major financial institutions, fed further safe-haven buying of the U.S. dollar on Monday. The dollar index (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which measures the currency against a trade-weighted basket of six global counterparts, rose to 88.825 in recent trade, up from 88.166 late Friday. The index posted a gain of 2.2% in February. Concerns were amplified as the U.S. government moved to inject as much as an additional $30 billion into foundering insurance giant American International Group (AIG:AIG Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) .  Meanwhile, global banking giant HSBC Holdings (HBC:HBC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) said that it will shut its U.S. consumer-lending business and that it needs to raise billions more from shareholders.  'There is a keener edge to concern about the global economic slump this morning which has led to a stronger start this week for the U.S. dollar (particularly versus the emerging markets) in a re-surfacing of the haven-buying trend of the past few months,' wrote strategists at Brown Brothers Harriman. The Japanese yen, which had seen its status as the world's ultimate safe-haven currency called into question last month, was also higher amid global uncertainty Monday. The dollar traded at 97.71 yen, compared to 97.53 late Friday, rebounding from an earlier slide. The dollar gained 9.6% versus the yen last month, however, as attention turned to Japan's worsening economic outlook. The dollar held onto gains after a report a showed U.S. consumer spending and personal incomes came in better than expected in January.  Also, the Institute for Supply Management reported that U.S. manufacturers said business worsened again in February for the 13th straight month, but the pace of the decline didn't accelerate as expected. 'Investors continue to flock into the safety of the low-yielding U.S. dollar and Japanese yen,' Kathy Lien, director of currency research at Global Forex Trading, wrote in an email. 'Although the U.S. economy is still very weak, investors expect the country to recover first,' she wrote. 'The potential for the being the first country to recover is confirmed by the mild improvements in the ISM manufacturing, personal income and personal spending data.' The euro lost ground after European Union leaders refused over the weekend to consider a coordinated bail-out package for troubled Eastern European economies. 'The foreign exchange market's perception of the summit should be clear: The EU again has proven that it is unable to manage a coordinated response to the crisis,' wrote strategists at Commerzbank. Eastern European currencies slumped, which in turn put pressure on the euro, analysts said. Growing fears about the exposure of euro-zone banks to Eastern European economies wrestling with high levels of foreign-denominated debt put the single currency under pressure last week. The Polish zloty lost 2% versus the euro to trade at 4.740 per euro, while the Hungarian forint was 2.2% lower at 306.80 per euro. The Czech koruna was 0.3% lower at 27.917 per euro, after being down more than 1% earlier. The euro, meanwhile, fell to $1.2597 versus the dollar, down from $1.2668 in North American trade late Friday. The single currency fell 0.6% versus the Japanese currency to 123 yen. The World Bank and other multilateral lenders on Friday unveiled a $31.2 billion package to support Eastern European banks and business lending in the region.  The EU leaders, meeting in Brussels, rejected a call by Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurscany for a roughly $240 billion support fund for Eastern Europe. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany and other EU members were willing to aid Eastern European countries on a case-by-case basis. 'We have shown in particular with Hungary that we help countries in need. And we will do so further, particularly through the international institutions,' Merkel said, according to The Wall Street Journal. But she also said that 'the situation is very different' in some of the affected Eastern European economies, adding: 'We cannot compare Slovakia nor Slovenia, with Hungary.' The Commerzbank strategists said the refusal of EU leaders to back an aid plan further underlined worries about euro-zone exposure to Eastern European woes, while also raising questions about the ability of the EU to come together to help distressed euro-zone members. 'The mounting risks make the euro quite a parlous place to invest in,' they wrote. The British pound was on the defensive, sliding to $1.4047 versus the dollar from $1.4306 late Friday. Britain's already hard-hit factory sector accelerated its decline in February, with production and employment dropping at a record pace as the recession took a growing toll on larger manufacturers, according to the CIPS/Markit U.K. manufacturing purchasing managers index.  The gauge fell to 34.7 from a reading of 35.8 in January. Economists had forecast a slide to 35.2. A figure of less than 50 signals contraction, while a figure of more than 50 indicates growth. Deborah Levine is a MarketWatch reporter, based in New York. is a reporter for MarketWatch in London.
