         There&amp;#039;s a head of steam building up towards doom and gloom which is, in my opinion, highly undeserved.  There&amp;#039;s no doubt that recent events have made most investors as sick as a parrot. The reason for this is blatantly obvious. The fall in share price. But if I have stressed anything over the years in my rambles and tales it is the importance of the long term. The long term means just that.....decades. I&amp;#039;m sorry if you have bought Lloyds shares at a certain price hoping to sell at a higher price for you are bound to be depressed at a share price around 1.60. But and I make no apologies for saying this.....this is the risk you take for equity based investing centred around changes in share price only. This is the risk you run when you part with your money and are then entirely dependant on &amp;#039;market forces&amp;#039; and &amp;#039;unforseen events&amp;#039; to dictate your financial wellbeing. In the short term market forces are entirely driven by emotion and irrationality....in other words:greed and fear. Not to mention seismic world events way out of any kind of control of the individual. In the long term seismic events pass and the world carries on mostly as before and most well thought out long term investment plans go on to recovery. It is a fact however, that private individuals who experience this kind of volatility usually retire hurt vowing never to return to shares. There is no doubting the fact that value will usually out providing you have a long term plan and strategy which can at worst cushion the blow of severe downturns and at best make the most of profitable good times. It may seem a strange time and indeed it may be an unpopular sentiment to express at present but the accumulation--by reinvestment of dividends--of more shares over the decades gives a high degree of downside protection and a sound platform from which to benefit from any future upturn. Short term share price speculators have every reason to be depressed right now. Long term investors who have no plans to cash in at such low levels have every reason to think positive.    Let&amp;#039;s look at Mike&amp;#039;s questions:-      Why hasn&amp;#039;t Daniels explained why LLOY needs government money?   The Government and the FSA have decided to make the UK banks fatten their capital cushions to the extent whereby they are virtually bomb proof.  They are factoring in a doomsday scenario that includes depression conditions including major defaults across the whole of the corporate/retail sectors. The possibilities of this happening depend on your take of how bad things might get. FWIW, I don&amp;#039;t think things will get any where near this bad. And neither does the Government. I wouldn&amp;#039;t argue against banks having to have stronger cash reserves however, so all in all it must be a good thing. Much is being made about Barclays not  subscribing to Government cash. There is the point of view that although they need cash and plenty of it, the fact that Barclays capital was very instrumental in dealing in the rubbish that has brought about this current situation may have influenced their thinking. Some say it smacks of higher management seeking to preserve their positions by seeking the cash elsewhere.   Why did he raise the interim dividend and pay it in cash?   Because  Lloyds increased their profits in the first half of the year and  were making solid headway in all business areas. And the Lloyds modus operandi has been--and will be again--to reward shareholders by paying good dividends.   Why didn&amp;#039;t he try and raise any capital via his own shareholders like Barc is doing?   Earlier this year Barclays raised 4 billion with the backing of Sovereign wealth funds. It remains to be seen whether they can raise the 9 billion or so it is estimated they need to meet the FSA&amp;#039;s new guidelines. There may be conditions or circumstances relating to the HBOS takeover which entail Daniels  accepting the Government&amp;#039;s input.    Why has he agreed to take on the huge liabilities of HBOS and thereby accepting 40% nationalisation?   Because he recognises the huge business advantage that a super bank will create in the longer term. The general consensus is that Lloyds may be weakened by the HBOS takeover. The fact remains however, that if the deal goes ahead shareholders could be owners of one of the strongest and most profitable banks in the UK which will be allowed to ignore competition rules.    Why has the share price dropped if all this is to benefit his shareholders?...;)   Because all of this is mired in uncertainty and the City does not like uncertainty. The fact of the matter is that Lloyds is a well capitalised--and will be even better capitalised very soon--bank expanding on all fronts. It is contemplating taking over a less than well capitalised bank the combination of which will result in a bank with huge potential.      Why has he become the Government&amp;#039;s Stooge?..;)   Maybe it&amp;#039;s the twinkle in his eye and his laid back American drawl. Or maybe it was just his horse riding technique that impressed. Also he smokes. Maybe it&amp;#039;s the way he inhales with a flourish with one eyelid half closed that did it for him!   How long before LLOY shareholders will get any sort of dividend?..which was so close to Daniel&amp;#039;s heart and all importany in his association with LLOY?   Who can say? But with a super bank operating on healthy profit margins Lloyds may be able to pay the government its dues sooner than people think. Don&amp;#039;t forget that Northern Rock has paid back double what was thought inside a year. Pay the debts first then reward the shareholders. It may come faster than many anticipate. If your investment horizon is ten years or more and you reinvest your dividends when they are resumed, I see no reason why you should be too depressed right now. Look at your holding like you would an endowment policy. Forget about it and let the years take the strain. Too much daily fussing and fretting over something you cannot control is no way to long term wealth.   Am I some kind of fruit cake in saying this? Particularly now? Possibly so. But as long as Lloyds survives and stays in profitable and expanding business for the years ahead the chances are high you will share in that success.   All the best  JIm                  
