 Scylla, some good points but you also miss a few key elements. May I share experience from the 97 Asian flu and emerging market crisis? BTW, I used to work for Swiss bank as an analyst and on the equity derivatives desk, then  the institutional desk of Lehman&amp;#039;s fixed income in Hong Kong in 1996, and from my convertible bond/warrants desk perch at Nikko watched the unraveling of the Asian equity and debt markets, and then left the biz.       And I would second the recommendation to read Bill Gross&amp;#039; view.       Lessons I learned the hard way in 1997/98   #1 - corporate credit ratings mean jack in times of financial stress. Right now, the global economy is on the abyss. A company that was historically triple-A may not be now. Reality and the credit rating agencies have quite a lag. To use an extreme example, how long did Lehman&amp;#039;s keep it&amp;#039;s credit ratings even though tehy always been the firm on the edge and it was painfully obvious last summer they were struggling.       #2 - credit ratings on bonds mean jack shit in times of finanacial stress. Go back through any crash in history and bond floors don&amp;#039;t hold. Something they don&amp;#039;t teach you for your Series 7. Think of it this way, all bonds have a deep out of the money short put option imbedded. In good times, that short put is so out of the money that it&amp;#039;s meaningless, in bad times you crash though the theoretical bond floor and suddenly that short put is being exercised. I wrote a feature article on the lessons of convertible bonds in the Asian Crisis for the International Finance Review.       #3 - assuming that the credit rating agencies like Moody&amp;#039;s and S&amp;amp;amp;P etc truely value the risk is asinine. Unfortunately, most of the Street got caught out by this. The rating agencies are hugely culpable in this mess. Again, to think of it simplistically, the first $500B in  CDO&amp;#039;s was probably a good do for everyone, but at some point the volumes went over a critical mass and the assumptions for that first $500B were no long valid. Buddy of mine at UBS said that they had hundreds of risk managers on the beach looking at grains of sand when the Tsunami hit. That shit never would have been allowed at Swiss Bank Corp, who&amp;#039;s risk control was legendary but dismantled because it prevent greater profits once the SBC/UBS shotgun marriage took place.       If you go back to your AA bond example. You&amp;#039;ll notice in the last 6 months that 2 different AA rated bonds with virtually identical terms and maturies have most likely traded significantly differently. That&amp;#039;s because they are both based on different underlyings. In times of stress one AA company or bond is not fungible with another. Again, goes back to what works in a bull market does not necessarily hold true for a bear.      #4 - You&amp;#039;ve got the right framework with your fire sale (clearing level), market price and hold to maturity price. However, these bonds can not be clearly valued. Just ask AIG, who wrote so much insurance on stuff they thought would never be called. The bonds are made up of variables of essentially individual debt - such that even with a big pool one can&amp;#039;t with a strong degree of confidence in these economic times be able to predict what the maturity price will be. That&amp;#039;s a big reason why the bonds are illiquid.       Three reasons why we are not at clearing price levels: First, no one can value these bonds to maturity value with any kind of confidence. Second, assuming these bonds can be valued to maturity, the big holders of these bonds know they are truely (instead of theoretically) bankrupt if they change the mark to market to the clearing levels or real maturity value. Third, massive systemic risk - if the global economy really &amp;amp;quot;craters&amp;amp;quot; in McCain parlance, then whatever value you have for the bonds now is going to be further haircut.       What the government needs to do is first create a liquid market at clearing levels as a buyer of the last resort. In other words, if the mark to market/theoretical value/value to maturity of debt is 50 cents on the dollar, then the government should haricut that offer 40 cents (and get concessions like warrants, compensation caps, etc from the companies that tap into the pool). This starts the market back on the way to liquidity.      Foolsguinea - I would definately agree with that view. The government needs to make it really painful for the firms that have this radio active waste taken off of their books. 
