NEW YORK: Even now, with the recession deepening and markets on edge, Wall Street analysts say it is a good time to buy.  Still.  At the top of the market, they urged investors to buy or hold onto stocks about 95 percent of the time. When stocks stumbled, they stayed optimistic. Even in November, when credit froze, the economy stalled, and financial markets tumbled to their lowest levels in a decade, analysts as a group rarely said to sell.  And last month, as the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index suffered their worst January ever, pulling down shares around the globe, analysts put a 'sell' rating on a mere 5.9 percent of stocks, according to data from Bloomberg. Many companies have taken such a beating in the downturn, analysts argue, that their shares are bound to bounce back.  Maybe. But after so many bad calls on so many companies, why should investors believe them this time? When Internet stocks imploded in 2000 and 2001, Wall Street analysts were widely scorned for having fanned a frenzy that had inflated dot-com shares to unsustainable heights. But this time around, credit rating agencies, mortgage companies and Wall Street bankers have shouldered much of the blame for the Crash of 2008, and few have publicly questioned the analysts who urged investors to buy all the way down. 'Analysts completely missed the boat again with the subprime and credit crises,' said Jacob Zamansky, a securities lawyer who represents investors. 'They should've given some early warning signs to investors to bail out, or at least lighten up their portfolios. That warning never came.' Instead, many recommendations urged investors to hold on to their shares, or double down, as the bloodletting worsened.  On Oct. 8, as Congress and the Treasury Department frantically tried to calm the plummeting markets, a Citigroup analyst upgraded Bank of America to 'buy.' Since then, Bank of America shares have fallen 77 percent.  That same month, Jeffrey Harte, a top-rated analyst at Sandler O'Neill &amp; Partners also lifted Bank of America to 'buy,' from 'hold,' and came back a month later and gave Citigroup the same upgrade, according to Bloomberg. 'Our ratings are based on 12-month price targets,' Harte said. 'Given the nature of economic cycles and, really, the focus of the new administration, I did expect and still do expect that the sector will improve considerably over the long term.' With every wrenching decline, stocks seemed only to be better and better bargains to the most bullish market watchers, and their 'buy' ratings seemed to reflect a hope that the market would soon turn a corner.  One analyst at Davenport &amp; Co. called the aluminum maker Alcoa a 'strong buy' on March 24, data from Bloomberg shows, when its stock was a buoyant $35 a share and commodities prices were rising. He then affirmed the rating 14 times as metals prices plunged, manufacturing dried up, and Alcoa shares fell more than 70 percent. 'You can look back and say you were wrong as you go back and try to do a post-mortem on things,' said John Rogers, director of research at the market research firm D.A. Davidson &amp; Co. 'I don't think there's ever 100 percent accurate predictive expertise. I wish there was.' In July, Rogers put a 'buy' rating on Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron, an engineering and construction company whose stock had fallen sharply during the first half of 2008. The rebound Rogers had hoped for never came: The stock plunged 65 percent more.  Rogers said he had not expected oil prices, then hovering near $145 a barrel, to dwindle to $40. He had not expected Chicago Bridge &amp; Iron to hit snags on British natural gas developments. And he had not expected such a broad economic downturn. 'If I had a rewind button and I could have done it, I would have downgraded on the day it peaked,' he said. 'I was wrong on that, and I think any analyst would have to acknowledge that.' In their defense, analysts point out that most regulators, economists, journalists and investors failed to foresee this financial catastrophe. And the worsening economy did prompt a cut in their 'buy' recommendations. Investors, for their part, may have simply been following the lesson that had been beaten into them time and again during the bull years of the last decade: Buy cheap, because the market will always go up. 'The market went up, up, up and up. You were rewarded for saying, 'Don't worry, be happy,'' said William Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital, a money management firm in Issaquah, Washington. 'Each time the market went down was a new opportunity to buy the stock even cheaper.'
