,  BAC ,  C ,  GM ,  TRMP ,  WMT (Cramer's Pick) ,  DAI  More on BAC  Market Activity  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  Daimler AG  DAI  Stocks in New York continued to post big losses Tuesday morning as more dour economic data and corporate news dragged down the market.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently falling 247 points to 7603, and the S&amp;P 500 was down 31 points at 796. The Nasdaq was lower by 53 points at 1481. All were off more than 3%.  On the Dow, Bank of America (BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) was losing 8.8% and Citigroup (C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) was down 8.6%. Also sliding was GM (GM Quote - Cramer on GM - Stock Picks), which dropped more than 11%.  President Barack Obama is expected to sign the $787 billion stimulus package into law on Tuesday and to flesh out a plan to help distressed homeowners avoid foreclosures on Wednesday, but that wasn't doing anything to inspire buying.  One reading on economic activity, the New York Federal Reserve Bank's Empire State manufacturing index, was much worse than expected, at negative 34.65, vs. a forecast of negative 22.2. The new reading is a record low, but it's not a shock, writes Tony Crescenzi, chief bond analyst at Miller Tabak and a contributor to RealMoney.com.  In essence, the New York region played catch-up in February, says Crescenzi. 'If there is one message from the Empire survey not available in other data, it is the idea that weakness in technology spending deepened in February, as the New York Empire survey's resilience was in part because the New York region represents the new economy well, as opposed to other regions,' which rely heavily on traditional manufacturing.  Meanwhile, earnings gave a mixed picture. Wal-Mart (WMT Quote - Cramer on WMT - Stock Picks) said that its fourth quarter profit fell 7.6% as it suffered from a strong dollar, but still managed to beat analyst expectations after discounting a settlement charges. Wal-Mart was the only positive component on the Dow, with shares rising 3%.  
