Is it time to ignore the hoo-ha over bonuses and buy the banks? Some already think so. Last week, the global bank sector rallied by almost 10 per cent, with Bank of America jumping by a third. Barclays of the UK has more than doubled in the past two weeks. Investors, however, should be wary for three reasons.  First, banks may not yet be cheap enough in spite of the sector falling by three quarters from the peak in many countries. In global financial crises dating back to 1987, Credit Suisse calculates the average trough in price to tangible book value was about 0.5 times. European banks are trading on 0.7 times, Japan's are a tad higher while US banks are still over 1 times book. What is more, in previous crises when governments were forced to buy bad assets, as in Sweden and Norway, prices fell as low as 0.15 times tangible book.  The second problem is dilution. Assume that countries with the most extreme housing bubbles, such as the US and the UK, end up with writedowns equivalent to a 10th of gross domestic product while other developed countries suffer total losses equivalent to 2 per cent. Also assume that some 60 per cent of these writedowns remain on banks' books rather than, say, those of insurers or other financials, and that the sector shrinks itself so that leverage ratios equal the lowest achieved over the past decade. On that basis, Credit Suisse reckons global banks need to raise $800bn of new capital, about a third of current US and European shareholders' equity.  By far the biggest risk, however, is that the sheer weight of events overtakes this kind of analysis. The nationalisation of many banks remains possible. Unpalatable as this may be, it could offer a faster path to recapitalisaton and a resumption of normal lending than the current muddling through. Countries such as the US, which announces the latest incarnation of its troubled asset relief programme today, and the UK still seem to be opting for the halfway house of life-support. The decision for investors, however, is the same either way. Sell  To e-mail the Lex team confidentially click here OR To post public comments click here 
