BOSTON (MarketWatch) -- Beaten-down regional banking stocks soared Wednesday afternoon after U.S. regulators released some of the details of the stress tests being conducted on banks' troubled balance sheets. The agencies said they expect to complete the assessment process as soon as possible, but no later than the end of April 2009. The SPDR KBW Bank ETF  (KBE:  KBE  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  was up more than 7% in a late-session rally. Fifth Third Bancorp  (FITB:  FITB  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  jumped more than 40% heading into the closing bell and SunTrust Banks Inc.  (STI:  STI  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  gained nearly 30%. Elsewhere in the bank sector, Citigroup Inc.  (C:  C  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , Bank of America Corp.  (BAC:  BAC  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , Marshall &amp; Ilsley Corp.  (MI:  MI  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , Regions Financial Corp.  (RF:  RF  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  and KeyCorp  (KEY:  KEY  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  were all up at least 10% in recent trading.  Print  Disable Live Quotes  Subscribe to RSS  More Market Pulse  7 minutes ago  17 minutes ago  21 minutes ago  Top stories  51 minutes ago  1:42 PM today  2:22 PM today  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2009 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
