My colleague David Kathman recently wrote an article defending asset allocation and I wholeheartedly agree with his take. Asset allocation is alive and well, and it was investors' expectations that were out of whack. Still, during the bear market's darkest hours in October and November, some of the asset classes behaved in ways that surprised even the most ardent supporters of asset allocation.  Of the biggest surprises was the behavior of iShares iBoxx $ Investment Grade Corporate Bond (NYSEArca:LQD - News). While the stock market was crashing, this investment-grade bond fund was likewise taking it on the chin. Sure, risk spreads were rising across the board and the bond market was dysfunctional, to put it mildly. But the depth of the drop seemed out of sorts with the likelihood of the corporate-bond sector suffering broad-based defaults.  It turns out that in my assessment of risk I had made an error in oversimplification that plagues many ETF investors. While doing some further digging into LQD I was shocked to find out that 44% (by my count) of the fund's bond holdings were in financial companies (like Bank of America (NYSE:BAC - News) and Citigroup (NYSE:C - News)) and General Electric (NYSE:GE - News). The same companies make up approximately 15% of the S&amp;P 500 Index. Like so many, I naturally applied the weightings that one would expect to find in the stock market to the high-grade bond market, but that is an assumption that clearly does not carry.  Normally, bond indexes aren't thought about in terms of sectors weightings. Investors count on the rating agencies to level the playing field and rate bonds according to the credit risk that each firm possesses regardless of industry. I'm not the first to call into question how effectively the ratings agencies have been able to do their jobs, but I think it is safe to say that the past year was not their best. In fact, I would argue that many of these companies lost their investment-grade status a couple of months ago, and the rating agencies just haven't caught up. The lesson is that with bonds behaving more and more like their equity counterparts it pays to know the sector weightings in each of these bond funds before jumping in.  People are certainly jumping into LQD given its strong fund inflows over the past several months. The fund saw $2.7 billion flow into it in December and January and now has more than $8.0 billion in assets under management. In fact, at conferences that I've been attending in 2009 it has been one of the top recommendations for panelists and experts across the board (myself included) because of its high yield when compared with rock-bottom Treasury yields.  I wonder just how many of these new investors would be surprised to find out that after they worked so hard to reduce their portfolio's exposure to financials, that they've actually increased it through LQD. Of course, there's a significant difference in holding a debt position versus an equity position. The government can't dilute your principal or cut your cash flow stream by capping your dividend--or can it? Given the myriad plans being floated out there to save the big banks, I'm not taking anything for granted. Some of these plans even go so far as to say that we should convert some of this debt to equity to alleviate banks from their debts. That's not what I expect from an investment-grade bond fund when I invest.  Unfortunately, there's not many good alternatives out there right now. LQD's smaller sister fund iShares Barclays Credit Bond (NYSEArca:CFT.TO - News) has 31% of its holdings in the bonds of financial institutions. That financial institutions comprise such a large portion of the 'investment-grade' bond market is hardly surprising given what we know about banks' voracious appetite for debt over the past decade. For now, investors will have to wait for an ETF provider to come out with a bond fund that provides investment-grade bond exposure, without the spectre of financial firm risk hanging over it.  Disclosure: Morningstar licenses its indexes to certain ETF and ETN providers, including Barclays Global Investors (BGI), First Trust, and ELEMENTS, for use in exchange-traded funds and notes. These ETFs and ETNs are not sponsored, issued, or sold by Morningstar. Morningstar does not make any representation regarding the advisability of investing in ETFs or ETNs that are based on Morningstar indexes.  Scott Burns does not own shares in any of the securities mentioned above.  Morningstar Premium Members get access to over 3,900 Stock and Fund Analyst Reports, Analyst Picks, and award-winning portfolio tools. Learn More.  
