'Citigroup and Bank of America surge.'  That is a bit of an exaggeration, but the truth is, media can stimulate positive growth through their stories regarding market performance.  As the banking industry goes through this time of transition from being a stable and safe investment, any good news is celebrated, as proven by Lynn Thomassons article on Bloomberg.com.  'Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. rose more than 20 percent, sending financial shares in the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index to the first advance in eight days.'  As always with investment news it is imperative to look at the whole picture as Citi increased 22 percent to a whopping $2.60 and Bank of American increased 21 percent (take a deep breath) to $4.73.  The fact is that although I write this with a sarcastic tone, I am truly excited to see over 20 percent gains for these two banks. I am more excited to see that the media is jumping on the opportunity to celebrate it and hope for more headlines about surging stocks.  Personal Disclosure: I dont support buying individual stocks as part of a retirement portfolio. I think good, long-term growth mutual funds are the way to go.  After years of relaxed lending guidelines and encouragement to make everyone a homeowner it is now time for the banks to return to doing business the old fashioned way. We are experiencing some growing (shrinking) pains right now, but ultimately you will see the banks are able to operate much more efficient and with recommendations that are truly for the betterment of a familys finances.  Topics:  Banking ,  Savings ,  media ,  stocks  Subscribe Feed  Include other special offers from Examiner.com  More from Chicago Banking Examiner  February 23, 5:46 PM  Due to the current state of the economy, the Federal Government has stepped up its efforts to encourage financial education. Financial education as been missing from schools and from home life for years. It has always been said, 'You dont... Read More  Topics:  Financial Education ,  Banking ,  Debt ,  Savings  
