GOLD fell sharply on apparent profit-taking - some motivated by chart-based factors but analysts also citing perhaps reduced safe-haven demand in the near term, at least.  April gold fell $US21.50 to $US892.80 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract dipped back below $US900 an ounce for the first time since last Wednesday, with the metal oscillating on either side of this key level since January 23. 'It looks like there is technical selling,' said Carlos Sanchez, precious metals analyst with CPM Group. 'Some of that is attributable to gold prices not being able to hold forcefully above $US900 over the last two or three weeks.' Thus, he said, some longs may be exiting. Otherwise, he said, the weaker US dollar normally would have been supportive for gold. There also might be some abatement of the safe-haven demand as markets anticipate congressional action on economic stimulus this week, said Bart Melek, global commodity strategist with BMO Capital Markets. 'Over the weekend, we didn't see any major catastrophic news in the banking sector,' said John Person, president of NationalFutures.com. 'People are starting to be a little bit less fearful of the equity markets, and we're starting to see a recovery in some of the banking stocks, with Bank of America being up and Citigroup being up. 'That is taking away the fear factor, thus some of the flight to safety in gold.' And, he said, the weekly data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shows the large speculators were heavily net long as of Tuesday last week. The funds' net long for futures and options combined stood at 168,103 lots, up from 152,520 the prior week and the most since late July. 'So I think there is some profit-taking in the market,' Mr Person said. Mr Sanchez said he anticipated investors would keep buying gold as a safe haven going forward. 'You'll probably see gold prices head higher later this week or later this month just because of the ongoing financial and economic concerns,' he said. 'The pattern we're seeing now is not all that different from the past several months. Gold has traded in a range of $US130 some months with a maximum of $US200.' Fund flows have continued to support the metals lately, with holdings in the world's largest gold and silver exchange-traded funds hitting record levels last week, said Andrew Montano, director of precious metals with Scotia Mocatta. As of Friday, SPDR Gold Shares held 867.19 tonnes of gold, while the iShares Silver Trust held 7530.20 tonnes of silver.   Mr Person, meanwhile, questioned whether there will be enough investment demand to keep pushing gold higher, especially if the public becomes less 'fearful' of financial and economic conditions and inflation remains low.   As an example of perhaps abating fears about the economy, he cites copper's ability to get back above $US1.60 a pound when many thought it might fall below $US1. Also, gold tends to enter seasonal weakness around the end of the first quarter, he said. 'It's very susceptible to sharp pullbacks,' Mr Person said. 'Gold has a tendency to decline over the last 35 years during this time period.' March silver fell US33 cents to $US12.83, facing some of the same technically oriented selling as in gold, Mr Sanchez said. 'Last week, prices climbed 10 per cent,' he said. 'You're seeing some of the same thing going on (as in gold) - profit-taking after not being able to hold above $US13. Prices backed off from there.' The platinum group metals also closed lower, although platinum managed to pare early losses. April platinum fell $US8.40 to $US995.90 an ounce but recovered from a $US980 low. One analyst said plans for 20,000 job cuts by Nissan contributed to a negative tone, while a trader cited profit-taking.   Still, some buying emerged, probably speculative in nature, the trader said. 'Industrial end users don't want it,' he added. March palladium declined $US7.50 to $US205.85 an ounce.   From here you can use the Social Web links to save to a social bookmarking site.  Philip King   THE world according to Jeremy Clarkson is a place that doesn't have enough global warming but at least Australia is hot and unusually,...  David Meagher, Wish editor   Veronique Nichanian has been designing the menswear collections for French luxury goods company Hermes for 20 years, a lifetime in the...  Georgina Safe, Fashion editor   BACK in an era when ladies of leisure shopped all day, pausing only to take tea and powder their noses, level seven of David Jones in...  Ray A. Smith   Wardrobe memo to men: Think pink. And orange, lilac and cobalt blue, while you're at it.  Loretta Chao &amp; Andrew Battson   THE global downturn is taking a severe toll on China's dynamic small businesses,  Fred Pawle   Testing a car's performance is one thing, but what does it sound like with the stereo cranked? And what tunes feel best in it?  Access stock quotes, Financial Market interactive charts and the latest business news from your mobile or iPhone.   Read More  Our interactive charting tool lets you dig deep into the price and news history of any company quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange.  Read More  Create a company watch-list, track your stocks using email and mobile alerts and monitor their performance through the day with our portfolio tool.  Read More  Ewin Hannan and Rick Wallace   8:12am  POLICE will pursue anyone who has deliberately lit fires that have ravaged Victoria, Chief Commissioner Christine Nixon says.  Mitchell Bingemann   HUNDREDS of Telstra workers stormed the group's Sydney offices yesterday demanding chief Sol Trujillo return to the negotiating table.  Bernard Lane   THE University of NSW has won the most prize money in the 2009 teaching and learning stakes.
