General Motors (GM) - WSJ reports GM and Chrysler LLC are required to submit recovery plans to govt today as part of their agreement to receive billions of dollars in federal loans. Under terms of their federal loans, GM, Chrysler plans are supposed to include agreements with UAW on labor-cost reductions and deals with bondholders and other creditors for reducing their debt. President Obama's administration names Ron Bloom as a key adviser to task force.  Sirius XM Radio (SIRI) inks deals with Liberty Media (LINTA) whereby LINTA will invest $530 million in the form of loans to Sirius XM and its subsidiaries and receive an equity interest in SIRI. Upon completion of LINTA investments, SIRI will issue LINTA 12.5 million preferred shares convertible into 40% of SIRI common stock. In addition, LINTA will receive seats on SIRI Board proportionate to its equity ownership.  Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) Posts $1.03 vs. $1.03 (incl. $0.02 charge) fourth quarter underlying EPS from cont. ops on 1.6% higher Walmart U.S. same-store sales, including fuel, 1.7% higher total sales. Sees $0.72-$0.77 first quarter reported EPS, $3.45-$3.60 fiscal year 2010.  MGIC Investment (MTG) - Moody's Investors Service cut its credit ratings on MTG and Radian Group (RDN) several notches to junk status because of deterioration in their franchise value and likelihood of sustained losses for several years and substantially limited access to capital. The firm cut the insurance financial strength rating of GNW mortgage-insurance units 5 notches to Baa2, or two notches above speculative grade.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) posts $2.50, vs. $4.17, fourth quarter EPS as $385 million in net charges offset 57% revenue rise. Operating margins narrowed to 33.1% from 55.5%.  Suntrust Banks (STI), Fifth Third Bancorp (), as well as big banks Citigroup (C) and Bank of America (BAC), are among financial services firms being weighed down by disappointment with the government's planned credit-market bailout and concerns that the $787 billion stimulus plan won't jolt the economy fast enough, according to Dow Jones.  Google (GOOG) falls 14.58 to 343.10. ThinkEquity downgrades GOOG to Source of Funds from accumulate.  Deere &amp; Co. (DE) shares fall after Goldman reportedly downgrades DE to sell from neutral.  Coldwater Creek (CWTR) sees fourth quarter fiscal year 2009 sales of about $280 million, reflecting a same-store sales decline of about 22%. Expects to realize fourth quarter loss per share of $0.23-$0.25, vs. $0.19 loss in fourth quarter fiscal year 2008. Expects a continued challenging macroeconomic environment. In new credit facility deal with Wells Fargo; secured, three-year revolving credit facility has increased the aggregate commitment amount by $10 million to $70 million, subject to borrowing base limitations. S&amp;P maintains hold.  
