For the first time in recent memory, airline stocks aren't the ugliest shares in a down market.  Analysts are pumping airline stocks as cheap buys that could produce big gains in the next six to 18 months for investors.   So far, however, investors can't see past the industry's dismal record in past downturns or beyond concerns that a weak economy is undermining demand for travel and affecting revenue.  Even after two good days on Wall Street, airline shares are priced much closer to their 52-week lows than to their highs.   Among the most undervalued, analysts say, is AMR (AMR), parent of American Airlines. Its shares closed Tuesday at $4.72, 83 cents above its low last week and more than $10 off its high last February. Similarly undervalued Southwest (LUV) closed Tuesday at $6.57. That's 47 cents above its low, also hit last week, but below its peak of $16.77 in September.  Shares in Continental (CAL) closed Tuesday at $11.84, twice their July low of $5.91. But that's far below their peak of $29.88 last February.  Most carriers hit their 52-week highs in February 2008, just before investors figured out that oil prices were becoming a big problem. Now, airlines' oil price woes have subsided. After peaking above $147 a barrel in mid-July, oil closed Tuesday at $39.96 a barrel.   Vaughn Cordle at Airline Forecasts says that drop will save the 10 largest U.S. airlines $20 billion this year, assuming oil averages $60 a barrel. 'The industry essentially breaks even with $70 oil, but earns $7.5 billon with $50 oil' this year, Cordle says.  Not all analysts are enthused. But even the more cautious predict profits unless the economy experiences an unprecedented, cataclysmic collapse.  Michael Linenberg at Bank of America's Merrill Lynch recently suggested that airline profits this year might come in closer to $2 billion than to $4 billion because of weakening demand.  That weakness has led to increased worries about fare discounting. But most analysts believe that airlines' improved balance sheets, coupled with capacity cuts, will prevent a ruinous fare war.  That was challenged Tuesday with the launch of two fare sales, one by Southwest for travel through June 24, and one by AirTran (AAI) for travel through Nov. 4. The AirTran sale, matched by most other carriers on competitive routes, requires tickets to be bought by March 5, but its eight-month travel period is unusually long. 
