 Barani Krishnan  Commodities, except for gold, may ignore their own bullish fundamentals and follow equities lower through 2009 as economic woes force the two asset classes to behave like one.  Typically, commodity and stock markets react to their own fundamentals and are supposed to be inversely correlated, helping investors profit on one side if they lose on the other.  That explains why investors who regard equities as their forte also have oil, metals and grains futures in their portfolios.  But the global financial crisis has hammered prices of both stocks and raw materials except for gold, which has rallied to near record highs. And, unlike a few years ago, a plunge in equities can almost certainly lead to a slump in commodities.  'Our equity markets are really the judge of the economy and business activity now, and that's why we are seeing this strong correlation between energy and equities, metals and equities and grains and equities,' said Frank Lesh, broker and analyst for commodity futures at in Future Path Trading Chicago.  Until the world slipped into economic turmoil in September, commodities had outperformed stocks for four straight quarters as oil, gold, copper and corn prices all hit record highs.  Last week, the Reuters-Jefferies/ CRB index, a global commodities benchmark, sank to six and a half year lows after Wall Street's key stock index the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost almost 300 points, nearing last November's low.  'A lot of what's happening in commodities now have to do with what's happening in equities,' said Zachary Oxman, senior trader in commodity futures at Wisdom Financial in Newport Beach, California.  'The stock market has become a barometer of risk, and is in a real bad spot,' Oxman said. 'I expect commodities to shadow equities through 2009, till we see some economic recovery.'  Edward Meir, an analyst for metals and energy at MF Global in New York, concurs.  'Commodities have been doing their own things, but, when you have a big move down in equities due to some economic shock, it pulls oil, metals and everything down with it,' Meir said.  The Federal Reserve last week forecast the US economy to contract by 0.5 to 1.3 percent in 2009, much more than the 0.2 percent decline it had projected in October. The revised outlook should keep any commodities rally in check, Meir said. 'It also means this broad correlation with equities should continue for at least a year.'  US bank Goldman Sachs, a major player in commodities, has told its clients to 'short' commodities or bet on falling prices including crude oil.  'A long investment in a commodity cannot be held indefinitely, as ultimately the futures contract for which the investment is held will near expiration, at which point, the position will need to be 'rolled,'' Goldman said.  'In the current environment, due to spot prices being far below forward prices ... this roll represents a cost to the investor.'  Some analysts think the inflation potential in commodities isn't being appreciated enough and that prices will again hit record highs at some point whether equities rise or not.  'We're printing more money than ever before and all that is inflation,' said Peter Schiff, head of Euro Pacific Capital in Connecticut.  'We also haven't overcome the key ingredient to the last rally short supply of the commodity itself.'
