 1) Wall Street finishes erratic day higherWall Street scored a moderate gain after a volatile session Wednesday that saw the major indexes ratchet up and down on the seesawing price of oil and mixed feelings about the financial sector.Concerns about mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac initially dragged down financials. Wall Street is nervous that the government-chartered companies will need a bailout from the Treasury Department, a move that could wipe out shareholders' equity. Fannie Mae shares tumbled nearly 27 percent, while Freddie Mac shares lost 22 percent.But because financial stocks have fallen so far over the past few days, some traders appeared to be covering many of their short positions, which drove a large portion of bank and brokerage stocks higher late in the day, said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at New York-based brokerage house Avalon Partners Inc. Meanwhile, oil prices finished higher -- bad news for consumers, but a boost to energy company stocks, which also attracted buying on Wednesday.The Dow Jones industrial average rose 68.88, or 0.61 percent, to 11,417.43 after being down by nearly 60 points and up more than 100. Concerns about inflation and the financial sector led the Dow to post its worst two-day performance since late June on Monday and Tuesday with an overall drop of about 310 points.Oil, which has rebounded this week after dropping $35 from its July 11 high of $147.27, ended up modestly, even after the Energy Department said crude oil inventories rose much more than forecast last week. Energy costs remain a concern because of their effect on overall inflation. Government reports last week and on Tuesday showed larger-than-expected increases in prices faced by consumers and businesses. Light, sweet crude rose 45 cents to $114.98 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after alternating between gains and losses.2) Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac shares plummetShares of the mortgage finance companies lost more than a fifth of their value on Wednesday as fears mounted that the companies will soon need government support and any bailout would hang stockholders out to dry.Since Monday, stock in the two companies -- which together hold or guarantee half the U.S. mortgage debt -- have plunged nearly 40 percent and are now trading at lows not seen in nearly two decades.The two government-sponsored companies are the largest source of funding for home mortgages in the U.S. But they have struggled with soaring losses from mortgage defaults. Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have lost a combined $3.1 billion between April and June, and investors fear the losses will continue to grow.Fannie Mae's stock fell $1.61 to close at $4.40, after hitting a low of $3.95. Shares of Freddie Mac fell 92 cents to $3.25, after earlier hitting a low of $2.95. Both are down about 90 percent for the year.Freddie Mac, in particular, has investors and analysts fearful. The company earlier this year promised to raise $5.5 billion -- more than double the company's $2.1 billion in market value Wednesday -- to shore up its finances. Fannie's market capitalization was about $4.7 billion at the market's close.The precipitous slide in Fannie and Freddie's stock prices are a sign investors assume the government is on the brink of taking control of the mortgage giants.3) Source: auction-rate probe focuses on 3 banksNew York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo will intensify his probe into auction-rate securities by focusing on Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, a person close to the investigation said Wednesday.The banks are the three biggest players in the auction-rate securities market that have not already reached a settlement with Cuomo, who is seeking deals on behalf of regulators and state authorities. Five major Wall Street firms including Citigroup Inc. and Switzerland's UBS AG have agreed to $42 billion in settlements.4) Oil prices rebound even as crude inventories jumpThe price of oil bounced back near $115 a barrel on Wednesday, as traders shrugged off a massive increase in U.S. crude inventories and a stronger dollar and focused on possible supply threats.It was a volatile day for energy prices, which initially retreated after the U.S. Energy Department said a big gain in imports drove crude inventories up by a hefty 9.4 million barrels in the week ended Aug. 15. The figure came in much higher than the average analyst forecast for a 1.7 million-barrel increase, according to energy information provider Platts.Light, sweet crude for September delivery rose 45 cents to $114.98 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after rising as high as $117.03 before the inventory data was released, falling as low as $112.61, and then rebounding again. The September contract expired on Wednesday; the October contract finished up $1.01 at $115.56 a barrel.5) Lehman under mounting pressure to take actionThe pressure is increasing on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to come up with a plan to restore itself to financial health -- or possibly face the worst-case scenario of selling itself off in pieces and at bargain prices.Lehman needs to come up with a plan to purge itself of its risky mortgage-backed assets and raise new capital. But neither task is easy: Prospective buyers for those assets want to pay as little as they can get away with, and the big offshore investors that invested in Citigroup Inc. and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. months ago are wary about sinking more money into the financial industryLehman Chief Executive Richard Fuld who took the company public in 1994 after splitting it off from American Express Co., is said to be considering the sale of all or part of Lehman's investment management arm. That includes the highly profitable money manager Neuberger Berman, which it bought for $2.6 billion in 2003.Another option for Lehman is to secure funding from a sovereign wealth fund or another big institutions. However, reports that a deal to raise $5 billion from South Korean investors fell through points to the caution among potential investors.Many of Lehman's troubled assets still have value, but the firm can't sell them because the market is just about paralyzed. It's likely that the only way to get the investments off Lehman's books is to sell them at a steep discount, much as Merrill Lynch did last month when it sold risky assets for 22 cents on the dollar.
