You&amp;#8217;ve been happy. Gas prices have been going down for 25 straight days, and you have, literally, a few extra pennies in your pocket. Retail gasoline prices fell for the 25th day in a row, a survey of gas station credit card swipes showed Monday. The national average price for a gallon of regular gas fell to [...] You&amp;#8217;ve been happy. Gas prices have been going down for 25 straight days, and you have, literally, a few extra pennies in your pocket. Retail gasoline prices fell for the 25th day in a row, a survey of gas station credit card swipes showed Monday. The national average price for a gallon of regular gas fell to $3.81 from $3.818 a gallon the previous day, motorist group AAA said. Gas prices have fallen more than 7% since hitting a record high of $4.114 on July 16, though prices remain more than $1 above year-ago levels. Gas prices have eased substantially over the last 3-1/2 weeks following a sustained drop in the price of crude oil, gasoline&amp;#8217;s primary ingredient. This has come to an end. Because, while the majority of the US (perpetrated by the media, no less) was chasing John Edwards dick, and ignoring the escalating war between Georgia and Russia, the conflict has given speculators the reason to push crude prices back up.  Crude oil prices have forged higher on fears that military conflict between Russia and Georgia could disrupt supplies in the region. US light, sweet crude was up 71 cents at $115.91 a barrel, while London&amp;#8217;s Brent crude gained 70 cents to $114.03 after prices had fallen on Friday. Georgia is not an oil producer but the country is a key transit point for crude and gas exports. But, wait. The pipeline has not been touched during the fighting. Yet, when a fire broke out prior to the fighting, speculators ignored it. A BP spokesman said the pipeline had not been damaged by the fighting. But reports said a fire had disabled the pipeline last week before the conflict erupted. It had been hoped that transporting oil through the region would make the West less dependent on supplies from Russia. &amp;#8220;The military conflict in Georgia is the key factor in pushing up oil prices this morning. So much has happened so quickly since we first heard of Russia&amp;#8217;s attack last week,&amp;#8221; said David Moore, an analyst at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney Finally, if you want to understand the conflict going on between Russia and Georgia, keep an eye on Newshoggers, who has, in my opinion, the best coverage and analysis on the Russian/Gerogian conflict. 
