 This is horrible! I hope they lose!      http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/arti...ours-view.html      A family of flood victims are being sued by their unsympathetic neighbours who claim they deserve compensation after their temporary caravan blocked their views.  Steve and Michelle Tyson were shocked when they received a county court claim demanding 4,830 from their neighbours Michael Burton and Sarah  Jagger.  The warring couples from Hull are now set for a court showdown after Burton and Jagger demanded compensation of 138 for every  week the caravan 'interfered' with their views, light and privacy.  Fuming education worker Michelle, 45, said: 'I just can't believe it. After the floods, everyone was in the same boat. I even made cups of tea and took meals round for Mike when he was having repairs done to his house.  'This came as a total shock. We can't believe it.'      Mr Burton and Miss Jagger claim a compensation deal was reached after they agreed to remove a boundary  fence and allow the caravan to encroach on their land.  In court papers, they said the Tysons agreed to pay Mr Burton and Miss Jagger 138 a week, through their insurance  company Nationwide, to compensate for the intrusion.     But the Tysons deny there  was ever any such agreement in place.  Defending the claim, Miss Jagger said it was not personal. She said: 'The claim  is against their insurance company not them.  'We even sat in our living room discussing it. They have been kept fully  informed. This is not personal. We are not nasty people.'      But the legal paperwork refers to Mr Burton and Miss Jagger as the claimants and the Tysons as the defendants.  It states Mr Burton and Miss Jagger insist they were 'deprived of the use of their front garden'. But Michelle claim it was just a tow bar that was on their  land.  The mother-of-four, who came home from work on June 25, 2007 to find water  pouring into her front door, said: 'We both suffered a lot of damage. When we  asked Mike if he would mind us putting a caravan there he said 'go for it - the bigger the better'.  'It was only the tow bar which was in their garden. Now I feel I can't talk to them about it because tempers could become frayed.'      Mr Burton and Miss Jagger moved out of their terraced property the following  month, while repairs were carried out.  Michelle, her husband Steve, 46, a machine operator, along with children Sarah,  22, Sam, 19, Robyn, 17, and Alan, 16, moved into a four-berth caravan, provided by their insurance company, that November.  Michelle said: 'It was a nightmare, four grown children, three dogs, me and my  husband in one four-berth caravan. It took four hours for us all to get  showered and we had to use a portaloo.  'Every time we looked out of our window we got a view of someone else's caravan and builders using their portaloos. It was hard for everyone but we got through  it.  'For this to happen now feels horrible.'      At the time, Mr Burton and Miss Jagger granted permission for the fence to be  removed but when they moved back into their home in March last year the caravan  was still in place.  It was not removed until the Tysons were able to move back into their house  last November.  Michelle, who says the insurance company already footed a 50,000 bill to repair their house, said: 'Mike told us some time ago that he was going to gee up the insurance company to try and get things moving a bit quicker.     'That's why  it has come as a shock that our names are on the papers.  'We've responded to the claim but there is no way we can afford it. All we can  do now is wait.' 
