       Interesting piece on swap prices on Euro banks - trading much more on fear than the actual state of the fortress players over there:  Europe bank CDS wider than non-financials, indexes -ING Tue Sep 30, 2008 7:40am EDT  LONDON, Sept 30 (Reuters) - Credit derivatives spreads for the 16 banks in Europe&amp;#039;s investment-grade index are trading wider than for non-financial corporate names as the region&amp;#039;s bank casualties pile up, ING credit strategists said on Tuesday.  The bank constituents of the five-year investment-grade Markit iTraxx Europe index &amp;amp;lt;ITEEU5Y=GF&amp;amp;gt; were at an average spread of 178 basis points for senior debt early on Tuesday, which compared with an average of 125 basis points for non-financial index constituents, ING calculated.  &amp;amp;quot;Spread levels are extremely wide&amp;amp;quot; after the bailouts of Dexia (DEXI.BR: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Fortis (FOR.BR: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Bradford &amp;amp;amp; Bingley (BB.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Glitnir (GLB.IC: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Hypo Real Estate (HRXG.DE: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), said ING credit strategist Maureen Schuller, making it expensive for banks to obtain financing.  &amp;amp;quot;But if you look at names in the United States that are distressed, they are at levels above 1,000 basis points,&amp;amp;quot; she said.  Major banks including Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), UBS (UBSN.VX: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) were in a range from 260 to 320 basis points.  Only three out of the 16 banks were trading tighter than 125 basis points -- Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena (BMPS.MI: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), Intesa Sanpaolo (ISP.MI: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and BNP Paribas (BNPP.PA: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), ING analysts said.  Trading of individual bank names is less liquid than for the market indexes, which can react quicker to changes in sentiment.  After widening modestly early in the day after the U.S. Congress rejected a proposed $700 billion bailout, the indexes tightened on expectations that the subsequent drop in U.S. stocks would push the U.S. public and its lawmakers to come up with an alternative plan.  By 1056 GMT, the 125-name Europe index was roughly unchanged on the day at about 122 basis points, according to Markit data.  The individual banks names were also wider than the financial index as a whole.  The Markit iTraxx five-year senior financials index &amp;amp;lt;ITEFA5Y=IE&amp;amp;gt; of 25 banks was at 121 basis points, a trader said, 9 basis points tighter on the day.   But for individual banks, &amp;amp;quot;the risk aversion stemming from concerns about capital strength that is encouraging sellers to sell at any price rather than hold positions in banks where there is even a slight question is forcing liquidity problems to emerge,&amp;amp;quot; Dresdner Kleinwort analysts wrote in a note to investors. (Reporting by Jane Baird; Editing by David Holmes)  
