TOKYO, Oct 28 (Reuters) - The yen edged down against the dollar but rose against the euro on Tuesday as Japanese investors sold overseas assets on global recession fears and the persistent market turmoil.    The euro hit a 2- year low against the dollar and crawled towards a 6- year trough against the yen a day after European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the bank could cut rates at its next meeting on Nov. 6.    The yen has leapt about 20 percent on a trade-weighted basis  this month as investors unwind carry trades, in which they borrowed the low-yielding yen and sold it to buy assets offering higher returns elsewhere.    These trades have collapsed in recent weeks, sending the yen to a 13-year peak against the dollar and a six-year high against the euro as global recession fears and market turmoil have prompted market players to sell assets to raise cash.    Group of Seven finance ministers and central bank governors on Monday singled out the excessive volatility of the yen and said they would monitor markets closely, raising the prospects of currency intervention.    Market participants were nervous about the possibility of intervention, although many question the effectiveness of such a move, traders said.    &amp;#039;Currency intervention alone is unlikely to make the market turn around,&amp;#039; said a senior trader at a Japanese trust bank.    Intervention would be effective only if market players felt that the financial crisis, which has been hurting the global economy, can be resolved, the trader said.    French Economy Minister Christine Lagarde said on Monday any intervention on the yen would be a purely Bank of Japan undertaking.    The dollar edged up 0.3 percent from late U.S. trade to 93.07 . Ihe U.S. currency was still not far away from a 13-year trough of 90.87 yen struck on trading platform EBS on Friday.    Traders said there were many dollar-selling orders above 94 yen, which was expected to limit the U.S. currency&amp;#039;s gains. The yen is likely to test a 13-year peak when Japanese investors, who still have lots of overseas assets, decide to dump them.    Another factor keeping investors bearish on the dollar against the yen is expectations that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates at its two-day meeting starting on Tuesday.    Many in the market expect the central bank to slush the fed funds rate -- currently at 1.50 percent -- by at least 50 basis points.    The euro dropped 1.0 percent to $1.2370 after falling as low as $1.2329 on EBS.    The euro slid 0.7 percent to 115.10 yen. The euro struck a 6- year low of 113.62 on EBS the previous day.    The Australian dollar edged up 0.2 percent against the U.S. dollar to $0.6040 after the Reserve Bank of Australia intervened to prop up the Australian currency.    It was the third straight day that the central bank entered to help the Australian dollar, which has lost more than 35 percent against the U.S. dollar since peaking in July.    (Editing by Chris Gallagher)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
