LONDON, Oct 27 (Reuters) - The pound fell nearly 4 percent against the dollar on Monday, battered by risk aversion and recession fears and by talk the Bank of England may be poised to slash UK interest rates further.    Investors continued to dump risky positions and the higher-yielding pound has come in for a pummelling given the economy&amp;#039;s vulnerability to the financial crisis.    European shares were down over 4 percent and the yen continued its relentless surge higher despite Group of Seven ministers warning about excessive yen volatility and talk of possible coordinated intervention to stem the rise.    The Reserve Bank of Australia confirmed on Monday that it had intervened in foreign exchange markets on Friday and in Asian trade earlier in the global session to prop up the ailing Australian dollar.    Dealers later said the RBA had been active in European trade on Monday.    &amp;#039;Fear continues to grip global markets and traders are piling into whatever safe havens they can find,&amp;#039; James Hughes at CMC Markets said in a note to clients.    UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown added to the pound&amp;#039;s woes as he said falling inflation will give monetary authorities around the world scope for more coordinated cuts in borrowing costs. See.    &amp;#039;Gordon Brown hinting at the possibility of another rate cut is pressuring the pound right now. Everyone is concerned about recession and that is not a good background for the pound,&amp;#039; Commerzbank foreign exchange strategist Lutz Karpowitz said.    The steep falls in sterling/dollar recently mean a break below the $1.50 level cannot be ruled out, he added.    At 0939 GMT, the pound was down 3.6 percent against the dollar to $1.5363, taking it close to the six-year low hit on Friday of $1.5270, according to Reuters data.    The euro jumped 1.8 percent to 80.72 pence.    The Bank of England cut interest rates on Oct. 8 as part of a coordinated move and most expect it will be forced to cut interest rates aggressively in an attempt to stave off a prolonged and painful recession.    The Times newspaper reported Monday that pressure was mounting on the BoE for an emergency rate cut this week. The European Central Bank and the U.S. Federal Reserve were also mulling similar moves, the paper said, adding that another coordinated move could come as early as Tuesday.    On Friday data showed the UK economy contracted by a quarterly 0.5 percent in the third quarter, intensifying fears about the depth of recession the country could be facing.    Emphasising the weakness of the UK housing market, property consultancy Hometrack on Monday reported a 7.3 percent fall in house price in England and Wales in the year to October. .    Prime Minister Brown has advocated an increase in borrowing to shore up the economy, adding to worries about the level of debt the UK will be taking on.    In a letter to Britain&amp;#039;s Sunday Telegraph at the weekend, academics and economists for financial firms Lloyds TSB and Invesco said the spending risked seriously misallocating resources and stunting any recovery in the private sector. .    (Reporting by Jessica Mortimer; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/OPEN    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    slm    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
