Luiz Felipe Scolari has given Frank Lampard his vote as World Player of the Year after his wonder goal at Hull City.Lampard is one of five Chelsea players on the 23-man FIFA shortlist for the award.In total there are 10 Barclays Premier League players nominated and Lampard showed the reason for his inclusion with a superb opener in his side's 3-0 win at the KC Stadium.The England star picked up the ball on the left edge of the area and carefully flighted a delicate chip over Boaz Myhill and just inside the far post after just two and a half minutes.It left Scolari purring: "It was one of the best goals I have seen in my life. It was fantastic."Maybe only Frank Lampard could have scored that! It was very intelligent play to watch the keeper and put the ball where he did."My vote goes to Frank Lampard for World Footballer of the Year. He is one of the best goalscorers in the world and very clever."He played well all game and never tired, he is fantastic. It was an important goal because it was hard for Hull going behind inside three minutes."Chelsea had plenty of chances to stretch their lead but still led only 1-0 at the break with Florent Malouda missing four great opportunities.Nicolas Anelka saw a powerful drive across goal turned away by Myhill to his right and was also just off target with another effort.Geovanni struck the base of a post for Hull City whose hopes of a second-half revival were dashed just four minutes after the re-start when Anelka nicked the ball away from Myhill and slotted into the empty net.Malouda added a third 16 minutes from time with a simple tap-in but Scolari added: "The second goal killed them."After that we played with more freedom and confidence. They offered us a lot more of the pitch to counter-attack."At 2-0 the game opens up and it becomes easier to score three or four."The Chelsea manager though was full of praise for the newly-promoted club who have made such an impressive start to their first ever campaign in the top flight.He said: "I like Hull. They are very difficult to beat. Their players jump well and fight well and they have quality."I like this team. They want to show people that Hull are a good team. And I like Geovanni."I know him very well from Brazil. He is a big friend and I know his family. He is one of the best players for Hull."
