David Broder's silly declaration that Obama's Honeymoon is over has moved to the front page of the Washington Post in this piece, headlined "Anger Over Firm Depletes Obama's Political Capital": President Obama's apparent inability to block executive bonuses at insurance giant AIG has dealt a sharp blow to his young administration and is threatening to derail both public and congressional support for his ambitious political agenda. ... The populist anger at the executives who ran their firms into the ground is increasingly blowing back on Obama, whom aides yesterday described as having little recourse in the face of legal contracts that guaranteed those bonuses. The anger over the $165 million in bonuses to AIG execs is understandable but wait until the word gets out that the stimulus package will be rife with waste and fraud. In fact, Earl Devaney, the administration's own chairman of the Recovery Act Transparency and Accountability Board estimates that up to $55 billion in stimulus money could be lost to fraud and waste. I'm familiar with Devaney from covering his excellent work as Inspecter General at the Dept of the Interior which revealed gross ethical lapses at the DOI/Minerals Management Service. But as Devaney told state officials at a conference last week: "I'm afraid that there may be a nave impression that given the amount of transparency and accountability called for by this act, no or little fraud will occur," Devaney said, according to a summary prepared by reporters in attendance. "Obviously the challenge for all of us, especially those charged with oversight, will be to significantly minimize such loss," he said. "My promise to all of you today is that my staff, members of the board and I will work tirelessly to reduce those losses to the lowest level humanly possible." The Interior Department's former inspector general, he helped unearth the Jack Abramoff scandal. He said the widely-promoted Recovery.gov Web site will not meet his transparency or accessibility standards for at least a year.  Something tells me that we're going to lose a lot of money to fraud and waste before Devaney is able to get up to speed.  Obama doesn't have a year to make this work. If the Obama administration can't figure out a way to kickstart Recovery.gov they won't get to execute their agenda and the honeymoon really will be over. For everybody.  Tags: earl devaney, aig, bailout, stimulus, recovery.gov (all tags)       
