Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Federal Reserve Board chairman Ben Bernanke are the pictures of impotent rage. They say they really hate it that American International Group (AIG) is spending taxpayer money so a bunch of incompetent morons can buy bigger yachts and better art to the tune of $165 million on Sunday and another $55 million paid last December. They hate it, but they say they cant do anything about it. AIG, which is 80% owned by the federal government, is contractually obligated to pay.On top of that, the Bush administrations hand-picked AIG chief executive had the gall to claim that the company had to pay bonuses to retain the high quality employees who put the company in the soup in the first place. Those guys must have some real juicy pictures from the Christmas party. Edward M. Liddy apparently hasnt notice that Wall Street is awash with high quality financial people who are not only out of work, but would be willing to work for far less than the $6.5 million one AIG employee is scheduled to get as a bonus.Apparently, when Mr. Liddy agreed to take over AIG for a dollar a year and an unexplained equity kicker, he apparently was not told that his job was to fight a delaying action. That is to keep the doors open while AIGs businesses were unwound and sold. He is not a fireman sent in to save the company. He is receiver sent in to oversee its liquidation. And, for that, you dont need any $6.5 million employees. Resolution Trust Corporation did it with government employees.Messers Geithner, Benanke and Liddy have all overlooked one fact in their haste to pay off the perpetrators of the crimeAIG does not have the money. It is into the American taxpayers for more than $170 billion because it is broke. Legal obligation or not, the money just isnt there. It can only be taken from AIGs creditors, the people we are trying to help.Just who are these creditors and why are we helping them? At least 20 of them are states which entrusted bond revenues to AIG for safe keeping. But the rest probably dont deserve any help at all. AIG was a big dealer in a game called credit default swaps. According to a New York Times editorial on March 15, there were something like $62 trillion in credit default swaps outstanding last year. Of those, some 80% (about $50 trillion) were bets placed by people with no other financial interest in the transaction. A credit default swap is a bet that a company or a financial portfolio will default.AIG claimed it thought is was writing insurance policies, but, if that were true, it would have established a loss reserve, but it spent the money that would have gone into the loss reserve on bonuses, so, it clearly was not writing insurance.How could AIG get a way with running an international gambling endeavor? In 2000 Congress, in its infinite wisdom, specifically exempted credit default swaps from state gaming laws. And finally, just how much is AIG paying off? Does it have to pay the purse or should it just give back the bet? And, how are Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Bank of America, etc, etc, counting their losses? Are they counting as losses what they would have made if AIG had paid off, or are they counting only the amount they actually put on the line? Seems to me, all that is actually owed is out of pocket expenses, and that is far less than is being claimed. And Gaithner and Bernanke ought to make that clear to all parties.Tom Gordon
