Insurance giant AIG, once the 7th largest company in the world, has posted a quarterly loss of $61 billion dollars. Thats the companys loses for just three months. To put that in perspective, McDonalds has a total market value of $56 billion. AIG just lost in three months more then McDonalds yearly value. Its the largest quarterly loss in United States corporate history. The company has already received $40 billion in bailout money. To make matters worse, the government has approved the release of an additional $30 billion to AIG. The new money will not even cover the companys quarterly loss. It looks like this might be the last money the ailing company will see however. If the US government invests any more money it will have acquired enough ownership that it can become liable to cash out foreign debts currently held by AIG. All together this seems like a really bad move on the governments part. Its a giant, thats unsustainable. At best those tax payer dollars are only going to slow the inevitable. In my opinion, what would have been a better solution would have been an orderly winding down of the companys business. Break the company apart and sell its components to stronger handlers. The companys debt would have been absorbed by its buyers, increased competition would result, and thered be one less dead elephant for this nation to carry on its back. In a side note, European banks that had been borrowing and trading under AIGs credit rating have had to shoulder almost no responsibility for the companys growing debt. As I understand it, AIG only had enough money to back 1 out of every 12 loans issued by the European banks. Im not a financial expert at all but thats unbelievable even to me. Though as bad as that is, two smaller regional banks that were closed today had only a 2% reserve to cover its loans meaning they had no margin to absorb any bad debt. Beyond just being bad business, all of this seems completely unethical. There needs to be some major shake-ups. The global economy cant withstand these kinds of business practices. While Im the last person to suggest regulation by the government it might be time to consider at the very least the formation of some best practices. Maybe even the temporary privatization of US government invested banks, to oversee their dismantling and sale to stronger handlers. 
