Again, your opinions are welcome and appreciated.So I couldn't help but read a little bit of the main article on the Wall Street Journal that I delivered to a customer today. The article was about a 90% bonus tax that Congress just passed in "retaliation" for the whole AIG scandal that happened recently....it goes something like this:AIG is/was an insurance giant. However, they made a TON of bad business decisions and are deeply in debt, enough that if they were to declare bankruptcy, it could topple the entire economic structure. So.....our wonderful President and his cohorts decide to give AIG BILLIONS of dollars in (highly illegal) bailout monies. AIG takes that money, turns around and give $165 million of that as promised bonuses to their workers-a cool $1million/bonus.Public outcry. Scandal. Corruptions galore, right??!!So Congress decides that (with specific stipulations) they will tax all those who recieved said bonuses, that tax rate being 90%. What am I getting at, you may ask? What is my beef with this (besides the obvious issues with a bailout that never should have happened, of course)?This federal bailout is being funded by two things...our taxes, and loans from other countries (mostly china), which will have to be paid back by, you guessed it, our taxes. We, the people, are paying for this bailout to AIG and all the other failing corporations/banks/etc.... The money that has been paid to these companies was for a purpose, and that was to kickstart the economy, to help us, the little people, to survive. But it's our money that is being thrown to these greedy business people. And now you have the government taxing that money at a 90% rate. In other words, the money that was meant to kickstart the economy to help us is going right back to the government, for them to use as they see fit. Not you. Not me. The political machine. On top of that, these bonus-sucking leeches STILL get to keep 10% of that bonus, or $100,000. Is there ANYTHING about this that makes sense to you???? Are you mad as hell about this thievery as I am????Or am I totally off base here and blowing this whole thing out of proportion???Should I really just blindly trust that President Obama and his comrades....er....compatriots....er....lying, cheating, thieving bastard politicians truely have our best interests at heart and know what they are doing??I'd love to hear from you.....
