Update: So now we know it WAS liberals in DC who allowed AIG the loophole to award bonuses with taxpayer money - in fact it was a Democrat Senator who has been a top recipient of AIG campaign donations: While the Senate was constructing the $787 billion stimulus last month, Dodd added an executive-compensation restriction to the bill. That amendment provides an exception for contractually obligated bonuses agreed on before Feb. 11, 2009 &#8212; which exempts the very AIG bonuses Dodd and others are now seeking to tax. The amendment made it into the final version of the bill, and is law. Separately, Sen. Dodd was AIGs largest single recipient of campaign donations during the 2008 election cycle with $103,100, according to opensecrets.org. Nothing corrupt here folks! Dodd gives AIG the loophole, they donate to his campaigns. Eat your heart out ex-Governor Blagojevich - this is how to get kick backs. - end update As I predicted yesterday, the faux outrage of Dems to the reality that AIG must meet its financial commitments using tax payer funds was an attempt to deflect outrage from the pols onto the businesses those same pols decided to bailout. So far, the attempted deflection is not working and the DC pols are getting a strong (and well deserved) backlash from the country: President Obama&#8217;s apparent inability to block executive bonuses at insurance giant AIG has dealt a sharp blow to his young administration and is threatening to derail both public and congressional support for his ambitious political agenda. &#8230; The populist anger at the executives who ran their firms into the ground is increasingly blowing back on Obama, whom aides yesterday described as having little recourse in the face of legal contracts that guaranteed those bonuses. Look, we are all hurting financially. We have lost half our wealth either from the market drops or the decline in real estate values, or both. The fact these fat cats are being bailed out and all of us who have played by the rules, paid our bills, acted responsible are the ones not being saved is going to create a tsunami of a backlash. Why shouldn&#8217;t DC pay million dollar bonuses to those of us meeting our obligations? After all, its OUR money!
