Tom Raum, for the AP, wrote Thursday, &#8220;Denouncing a &#8220;squandering of the people&#8217;s money,&#8221; lawmakers voted decisively Thursday to impose a 90 percent tax on millions of dollars in employee bonuses paid by troubled insurance giant AIG and other bailed-out companies. AP - House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif. gestures during a news conference, Thursday, March 19, 2009, on Capitol Hill In some cases the bonuses might be taxed 100 percent leaving the recipients with nothing. It was only this past weekend that the bailed-out insurance giant paid bonuses totaling $165 million to employees, including traders in the Financial Products unit that nearly brought about AIG&#8217;s collapse. AIG has received $182.5 billion in federal bailout money and is now 80 percent government owned. Disclosure of the bonuses touched off a national firestorm that both the Obama administration and Congress have scurried to contain. The House vote was 328-93. Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate and President Barack Obama quickly signaled general support for the concept.&#8221; It seems, however, that this legislation, H.R. 1586, is unconstitutional, because it singles out for taxation a specific group of people, whichviolates the Constitutional prohibition on bills of attainder. Article 1, Section 9, Clause 3, states that &#8220;No bill of attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.&#8221; &#8220;A bill of attainder is an act passed by a state or federal legislature that punishes a specific person or group without a trial. In determining whether a piece of legislation violates the constitutional prohibition against bills of attainder, the Supreme Court generally tests whether the act specifies a group of people, contains a punishment specifically for that group of people, and does not require a trial. Given that criteria, this legislation could be ruled unconstitutional for imposing a tax penalty on a specific group of individuals.&#8221;1 All this bluster and &#8220;outrage&#8221; is really just a shell game to hide the blame that really belongs with Chris Dodd who authorized these bonuses in the first place. Dodd, however, now blames the administration who he says put pressure on him to authorize these bonuses. Obama unsurprisingly says he is &#8220;stunned&#8221; by the AIG bonuses, which is not surprising given either his incredible capacity for deceit or his total incompetence or some mixture of both, depending on your point of view. What is surprising, however, is that Obama said, &#8220;the buck stops with me,&#8221; and that MSNBC quoted him on that! Obama is more-or-less assuming responsibility for this whole AIG fiasco. If Obama is underestimating the genuine outrage that Main Street voting Americans are experiencing over this whole Bailout Bonus scandal, he is gambling with significant political clout that could - and I predict will - come back to haunt him in the next Presidential election. Americans want solutions, not excuses and finger pointing. I suggest term limits for these pinheads in Washington. Once their fat cat politician lifestyle is no longer an open-ended proposition, maybe we can start getting politicians who care less about campaign contributions, earmarks and political favors and more about what&#8217;s good for the American people. Posted in Current Events, Journalism, Obama, Politics, The Culture War Tagged: AIG, bailout, Bonus, Bonuses, Chris Dodd, Congress, Constitution, H.R. 1586, liberalism, mainstream media, MSNBC, Nancy Pelosi, Obama, punitive taxation      
