market at noon  10:25am   Telstra, TERRiA lodge bids for NBN  10:22am   Mortgage stress spikes in WA: Fitch  10:20am   Construction work rises 4% in Sep qtr  09:22am   Rio shares plummet as BHP pulls deal  09:09am   200 jobs axed at Pilbara mine  The Australian dollar has opened only marginally higher after failing to hold above $US0.6600 during offshore trading.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6454/60, up from Tuesday's close of $US0.6449/53.  Overnight, the local unit moved between a low of $US0.6338 and a high of $US0.6618.  The Australian dollar was down during European trading, but climbed above $US0.6600 after the US Federal Reserve and US Treasury unveiled two additional measures in a bid to tackle the global financial crisis.  The Fed said it would spend inject $US800 billion ($A1.23 trillion) into the US economy - $US600 billion would be spent purchasing mortgage-backed securities from government-sponsored mortgage firms and $US200 billion ($A306.26 billion) used to support consumer debt such as credit card and car loans.  Wells Fargo currency strategist Vassili Serebriakov said the Australian dollar benefitted from the positive reaction to the plan on US equity markets.  'After the announcement, we saw a jump in US indices and that really took the Australian dollar, as well as other commodity currencies, higher,' Mr Serebriakov said from New York.  But Mr Serebriakov said the poor outlook for commodities, particularly after BHP Billiton Ltd, the world's largest mining company, dropped its takeover bid for rival Rio Tinto, meant any Australian dollar rallies were only short-lived.  'The bounces that we're seeing in the commodity currencies, they usually extend only so much,' he said.  'Those sorts of rallies, they are not entirely convincing at this point.'  From its overnight high, the Australian dollar lost almost two US cents to start the local session only marginally above Monday's local close.  There was a slew of US data released during the offshore session, most of which confirmed the gloomy economic outlook, but Mr Serebriakov said the figures had little influence.  'While we did have a lot of US data this morning, I would say the primary market mover was still the equity market and the announcement of new policy initiatives by the Fed and Treasury,' Mr Serebriakov said.  The preliminary estimate of US September quarter gross domestic product was revised downwards to -0.5 per cent, from the advanced estimate of -0.3 per cent.  Also, figures showed US house prices declined 1.3 per cent in September and manufacturing activity continued to contract sharply in November.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics releases data for construction work done in the September quarter at 1130 AEST.  Mr Serebriakov said he expected currency markets to continue to take direction from the performance of equity markets during Asian trading.  At 0900 AEDT, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index was at 54.0, up from Tuesday's close of 53.8.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
