HONG KONG (Reuters) - Asian shares fell on Thursday to their lowest this month on uncertainty about the U.S. Treasury's banking rescue plan and signs the global financial crisis biting deeper in Asia. Japan's Mizuho Financial Group  said it plans to raise fresh capital, while Commonwealth Bank of Australia warned it expected a big jump in bad loans.  Germany enters recession, China output growth hit  LONDON/TOKYO (Reuters) - Germany has fallen into recession and China's industry output growth waned to its weakest in seven years, data showed on Thursday, reinforcing evidence the financial crisis is plunging the world into a painful downturn. Seeking to limit the fallout from a crisis that began when the U.S. housing market collapsed more than a year ago, Japan said it would offer up to $100 billion to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for emerging economies.  Oil falls to 22-month low on recession fears  LONDON/PERTH (Reuters) - Oil fell for a third straight day on Thursday to hit a 22-month low of $55 a barrel as mounting economic pessimism outweighed comments by OPEC that it could cut output again as early as end-November. OPEC officials, concerned about oil's steep drop from record highs over $147 a barrel per day (bpd) in July, said the cartel could possibly decide by the end of the month to cut production again to raise prices.  TSX dives as economic gloom chills investors  TORONTO (Reuters) - The benchmark index of the Toronto Stock Exchange dropped more than 5 percent on Wednesday as weakness in commodity prices and nagging economic worries spurred another round of panic selling. The session saw nine of the 10 subgroups of the S&amp;amp;P/TSX composite index  give up ground. The key energy and materials sectors dropped 7.5 percent and 9.9 percent, respectively. Financials fell 4.4 percent.  Canada says wants to ensure auto sector liquidity  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Wednesday he wants to ensure liquidity in the country's auto industry and continues to have talks with chief executives within the sector. Speaking to reporters, Clement said Prime Minister Stephen Harper is focused on the auto industry 'like a laser beam' and that auto parts manufacturers in Canada have a good understanding of the current economic situation.  Bank of Canada says credit fix a long process  TORONTO (Reuters) - Fixing the credit crunch will be a long process, but investors should be confident the main problems have been identified and are being addressed, Bank of Canada Deputy Senior Governor Paul Jenkins said in a television interview on Wednesday. He told Business News Network that it was important for government to use all available tools to get the Canadian economy moving forward and added that he expects to see a return to growth sometime after the middle of next year.  Canada boosts borrowing fund to businesses  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada's government expanded the borrowing capacity of its Business Development Bank by C$1.8 billion ($1.5 billion) in a bid to make it easier for the nation's companies to find credit, Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Wednesday. The move to raise the borrowing authority of the Business Development Bank of Canada to C$11.5 billion from C$9.7 billion comes amid growing concern over the impact of the global financial crisis on the Canadian economy.  TD Bank to boost stake in Ameritrade  NEW YORK (Reuters) - Toronto-Dominion Bank will increase its stake in online broker TD Ameritrade Holding Corp to 45 percent from 40 percent, the chief executive of the Canadian bank said on Wednesday. 'We will go to 45 percent,' Ed Clark, speaking at the Reuters Global Finance Summit, said of TD Bank's option to boost its stake by January.  Canwest slashes 560 jobs as downturn takes toll  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canwest Global Communications Corp is cutting 560 jobs at its newspapers and television stations to slash costs and try to cope with an advertising slowdown. Canwest, Canada's biggest media company, said on Wednesday that the job cuts -- about 5 percent of its workforce -- will be carried out through buyouts, attrition and layoffs.  CPP Investment Board says eyeing acquisitions  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canada Pension Plan Investment Board is positioned to make an acquisition as the global financial market rout has left prices of possible target assets at more attractive levels, its chief executive said on Wednesday. Speaking on a conference call to discuss the board's second-quarter results, Chief Executive David Denison said the market downturn has not put the fund under pressure to sell any assets. The CPP board, however, reported a big drop in assets under management on Wednesday, hurt by the market tumbles of the past two months.   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
