Euro holds ground despite recession in Germany while the yen and pound fall against the U.S. currency.  EMAIL  PRINT   SHARE   RSS  Paste this link into your favorite RSS desktop reader  See all CNNMoney.com RSS FEEDS (close)  Click chart to check other currencies.  Quick Vote  What should Congress do for U.S. automakers?  Lend them money  Do nothing  Lend them money but kick out current execs  or View results  NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- The U.S. dollar was mixed against major currencies Thursday as the German economy tumbled into recession and the Reserve Bank of Australia confirmed its intervention in the currency market.  The euro was trading up at $1.2563 from $1.2479 late Wednesday in New York. The 15-nation currency briefly fell below $1.24 overnight.  The British pound was down another pence at $1.4792 from $1.4938. The dollar rose to a 6-year high against the pound Wednesday as investors bet the Bank of England will continue to aggressively cut interest rates.  Against the Japanese yen, the dollar rose to 95.66 from 94.94. The yen fell 1.3% against the euro to trade at 119.95.  The yen's decline came after the Reserve Bank of Australia confirmed that it is buying Australian dollars to help prop up the Aussie currency. The RBA's move bolstered the market's appetite for risk as investors speculated that other central banks will intervene.  But enthusiasm was tempered by a report that showed Germany's economy, the largest in Europe, tipped into recession in the third quarter.  Germany's gross domestic product contracted by 0.5% in the July-September period compared with the previous quarter, according to the country's statistical office. It was a much sharper fall than the roughly 0.2% decline economists had expected.  In the previous quarter, Germany's GDP fell 0.4%, which was the first decline since late 2004, after a 1.4% growth rate in the first quarter.  European markets rose modestly despite the grim economic data. In the United States, stocks seesawed as investors groped for a bottom after a 3-day selloff.  'Equities appear to be pulling the currency market around by the ear,' said Steve Malyon, currency strategist at Scotia Capital in Toronto. 'So the focus will likely remain on whether the stability in Europe can hold, or a fresh round of selling gives a renewed lift to the U.S. dollar and yen.'  
