SIOUX FALLS, S.D. - Oil prices rose above US$58 Monday as cold weather heading into the American East drove up heating oil and natural gas futures and a government report showed a surprise jump in U.S. industrial output.  Light, sweet crude for December delivery gained 60 cents to $58.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Jim Ritterbusch, president of energy consultants Ritterbusch and Associates, said oil prices have been driven recently by equity and currency markets, but it appears some fundamentals are now driving price movement.  'Suddenly, we've got a weather market here that's allowed us to detach from the equities, for the time being anyway,' Ritterbusch said.  Oil also received a bump from the Federal Reserve, which reported a bigger-than-expected industrial output rebound in October. The Fed said industrial output rose 1.3 per cent last month, reflecting a return to more normal operations at chemical plants, oil refineries and drilling platforms following hurricanes that hit the Gulf Coast.  Ritterbusch said he cautions clients not to read too much into one week of government figures as the numbers are often revised. He said several agency reports due this week should give a wider view of the nation's economy.  Labour releases its producer price index on Tuesday and its consumer price index on Wednesday, Commerce releases housing starts on Wednesday and the Conference Board releases leading indicators on Thursday.  'We've got a pretty full schedule of releases so this was just one of them that we managed to get through,' Ritterbusch said. 'I'm not as confident about the rest of them being so optimistic.'  Gas prices continued to drop overnight, with the national average price for regular dropping 1.8 cents to $2.087 a gallon (about 67.5 cents Cdn a litre), according to according to auto club AAA, the Oil Price Information Service and Wright Express. That is nearly $1 a gallon below what it was a month ago and nearly $2 below where it was in July when prices peaked at $4.11 per gallon.  In Canada, the average price for a litre of regular gas was 89.4 cents Cdn a litre, down from 94 cents a litre a week before, according to price monitoring website GasBuddy.com.  Oil had earlier slipped below US$56 a barrel on news that Japan is now in recession, furthering the belief that demand for oil is falling.  Japan, the world's second-largest economy, said it slid into a recession for the first time since 2001 after gross domestic product contracted at an annual pace of 0.4 per cent in the third quarter after a shrinking 3.7 per cent in the second quarter. Japan now joins the 15-nation euro-zone in recession, defined as two straight quarters of GDP contraction.  'Markets are very worried about the international economic outlook, about oil consumption,' said David Moore, a commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. 'As data is released in the U.S., Europe and other countries, investors get a reminder of the economic problems in the developed world.'  Lowe's said its third-quarter profit fell 24 per cent as consumers postponed home-improvement projects and big-ticket purchases as an all-but-certain recession looms. Discount retailer Target Corp. said Monday that a difficult retail environment and weak results from its credit-card segment led to a 24 per cent decline in third-quarter earnings.  By midday in Europe, the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares fell 1.3 per cent, Germany's DAX fell 3 per cent as did the CAC-40 in France.  Oil prices have tumbled more than 60 per cent since peaking near $150 a barrel in mid-July.  The head of OPEC said Saturday that output reductions aren't likely this month during yet another emergency meeting.  Chakib Khelil, Algeria's energy minister and president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the cartel hasn't yet fully enforced previous quotas or collected all current production data, and it isn't realistic to expect a decision during a Nov. 29 emergency summit convened in Cairo, Egypt.  On Saturday, Iran called on OPEC to reduce output quotas by up to 1.5 million barrels a day at the Cairo meeting, but Khelil said the request is a 'wish.'  OPEC, which accounts for about 40 per cent of world crude supply, cut quotas by 1.5 million barrels a day last month.  In addition to the emergency summit, the cartel also plans to meet in Oran, Algeria, on Dec. 17.  In other Nymex trading, gasoline futures gained 3.61 cents to $1.275 a gallon. Heating oil rose 5.32 cents to $1.885 a gallon while natural gas for December delivery rose 20.3 cents to fetch $6.515 per 1,000 cubic feet. In London, January Brent crude rose $1.33 to $55.57 on the ICE Futures exchange.  
