LONDON (MarketWatch) -- European shares traded modestly lower on Monday, threatening an end to four sessions of gains, with losses for Vodafone Group and Volkswagen Group offsetting central banks' efforts to shore up sentiment. The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index (ST:SXXP: news, chart, profile) declined 0.2% to 221.66, as shares of Volkswagen (DE:766400: news, chart, profile) gave back some of last week's massive gains to trade down 16.6% and as wireless telecom mainstay Vodafone (UK:VOD: news, chart, profile) fell 4.5%. 'Investors have reacted to the newsflow hiatus at Vodafone Group,' noted analysts at Deutsche Bank. 'New management transition could hardly have come at a worse time as the bitter taste of weakness in Spain lingers, the global economy deflates and emerging market sentiment collapses,' they said. Still, first-half results due out Nov. 11 should help fill this void, they said. By region, the French CAC-40 index (FR:1804546: news, chart, profile) lost 0.3% to 3,477.20, while German DAX 30 (DX:1876534: news, chart, profile) slipped 0.2% to 4,983.11 and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 (UK:UKX: news, chart, profile) lost 0.2% to 4,367.17. U.S. stocks moved broadly higher in the early action on Wall Street, on the eve of the presidential election.  'Given the recent history of U.S. elections, there is likely to be a tale or two along the way before we know the eventual victor on Wednesday. That will clear the way for global central bankers to take the limelight once again with a continuation of their slashing of interest rates,' said analysts at Goodbody Stockbrokers. Last week, the Federal Reserve and several Asian central banks cut interest rates in an effort to support the global economy. The Bank of England and the European Central Bank are expected to cut rates sharply on Thursday. 'Nearly every day someone is cutting rates and this is helpful for equities. This is not the cure-all for equity markets, but the global easing cycle getting more broad-based means that we can be a bit more confident about the willingness of policy makers to act and prevent a worse-case scenario,' said Gerhard Schwarz, strategist at Unicredit. Schwarz said that efforts to support the global economy should help equity prices to bottom, at least in the short term, and will hopefully bring about a turnaround in credit markets. 'It is crucial now that we see credit spreads coming back from very high levels,' he added. Commerzbank higher, Barclays under pressure Banks were mixed, with shares of Commerzbank (DE:803200: news, chart, profile) up 4.4%. The bank said that it will take 8.2 billion euros ($10.5 billion) from the German government in a deal that will prohibit dividends payments in 2009 and 2010, bonus payments in 2008 and 2009 and a cap on executive salaries. The lender unveiled its capital plan alongside news that it swung to a loss of 285 million euros during the third quarter as revenue dropped 21% to 1.39 billion euros. Also higher, shares of U.K. mortgage lender HBOS (UK:HBOS: news, chart, profile) climbed 7%. The company recently agreed to be taken over by Lloyds TSB (LYG:LYGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) (UK:LLOY: news, chart, profile) and said Monday that the deal is proceeding to plan. Reports over the weekend also speculated that the firm could get a rival bid. Total secured impaired loans for the lender increased to 5.6 billion pounds at Sept. 30, up from 5.1 billion pounds three months earlier, HBOS said. Separately, Lloyds TSB said that market dislocation, insurance-related volatility and higher impairment charges hurt profit before tax in the first nine months of the year. Shares declined 1.6% but were still more than 17% higher than at the same point a week ago. 
