Rio Tinto's announcement of a 10 per cent reduction in expected levels or iron ore production this year was the first major sign of the impact of the global economic slowdown on WA, Premier Colin Barnett has said.  Rio this morning said it expected to ship 170 million to 175 million tonnes of iron ore this year, down from earlier expectations of about 195 million tonnes.  And with Fortescue Metals lowering its annual production target by 10 per cent, or 2 million tonnes, as it brings forward a planned maintenance shutdown of its port and mine processing plant.  'There is no doubt that over the next six to 12 months WA is going to be affected by the international financial crisis,' Mr Barnett said.  'This state is in a strong position but we will see some impact, there have been a number of slowdowns in mining production and deferral of projects.  'So we are going to have, as a state, a difficult six to 12 months.'  Less than a fortnight ago, Brazilian rival Vale cut its iron ore production by 10 per cent, or 30 million tonnes, meaning about 50 million tonnes of iron ore has been removed from the market.  Rio Tinto chief executive Tom Albanese said the reduction in its WA mines was to align production with revised customer delivery requirements after Chinese demand dropped in this quarter.  'We believe this will be a short, sharp slowdown in China, with demand rebounding over the course of 2009, as the fundamentals of Chinese economic growth remain sound,' Mr Albanese said.  A Rio Tinto spokesman told WAtoday.com.au that jobs in the company were the main priority, and he did not expect the announcement to trigger job losses.  Mr Barnett said he did not expect a huge impact on mining royalties.  'I don't think there will be a great impact on royalty revenue while their production is reduced, the fall in the value of the Australian dollar tends to compensate,' Mr Barnett said.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) today said China's annual growth rate had dropped back to a 'still-rapid' nine per cent in the year to the end of September, reflecting measures to restrain domestic demand.  The central bank also said in its monetary policy statement released today that it was increasingly clear the global commodity price cycle had peaked and that a price fall was expected in the months ahead.  Steel companies worldwide have initiated a significant cut to production amid the global financial crisis leading to a weakening demand for iron ore, a key steel-making ingredient.  BHP Billiton Ltd, the world's third largest iron ore producer, said there was no plans to cut output from its Pilbara operations in WA at this stage.  But an analysts said cuts could still occur.  'I think you'll definitely see BHP come out with some news. They'll have to now,' DJ Carmichael analyst James Wilson said.  'There is an oversupply (of iron ore) in the Asian ports at the moment and there are no surprises these guys are cutting production.'  BHP Billiton is expected to produce about 137 million tonnes of iron ore from its WA mines in 2008/09, up from 122 million tonnes in the previous corresponding period.  Mount Gibson Iron Ltd has been forced to sell its iron ore at a significant discount and will cut a third of its workforce after some of its customers defaulted on binding offtake agreements last month.  Rio Tinto spokesman Gervase Greene said the company did not expect to lay-off any workers as a result of the production cut.  Shares in Rio Tinto had gained $5.79 to $78.06 by 1400 AEDT, BHP Billiton had put on $2.04 to $29.97, Fortescue Metals had added three cents to $2.63, while Mt Gibson had picked up 3.5 to 41.5 cents.  
