London shares shook off early weakness to trade higher on Friday afternoon, extending this week's winning streak to four as a month of turmoil neared an end.The U.K. FTSE 100 index rose 0.4% to 4,307.72. The index is down roughly 13% in October and 36% in the last twelve months.Other European shares were also off early lows, as were U.S. stocks. See Europe Markets. See Asia Markets. See U.S. Market Snapshot.Gains from the beaten-down commodity sector supported the London index on Friday, with shares of Xstrata up 4.4% and BG Group up 2.8%.Shares in insurer Friends Provident climbed 4.5%. It said it has a 1 billion pound insurance group directive surplus, no material exposure to below investment grade corporate bonds, that it's going to keep European life insurer Lombard International, will distribute its 52% stake in fund manager F&amp;amp;C Asset Management by mid 2009 and won't change its dividend policy. Nine-month total life and pension sales dropped 14% to 701 million pounds ($1.15 billion). F&amp;amp;C shares rose 7.7% outside the top index. BT Group warnsHowever, there were still reminders of the gloomy economic backdrop. Shares of telecom BT Group plunged 19.2% after warning of disappointing earnings. Second-quarter adjusted operating profit and earnings per share are likely to miss expectations following a disappointing performance at its global services division, the firm said. See BT story.It's expecting to grow group revenue in its current financial year but anticipates that adjusted operating profit is likely to show a small decline compared with last year. Meanwhile, privately-owned department store operator John Lewis reported a 9.8% drop in weekly sales at its department store operation.Howard Archer at IHS Global Insight said that the sales drop is extremely worrying given that John Lewis is a good bellwether for the health of consumer spending and called for more rate cuts from the Bank of England.Publicly-held retailers were trading lower, with department store operator Marks &amp;amp; Spencer down 4.1% and clothing retailer Next down 4.7%..Both M&amp;amp;S and Next report results next week.Barclays' capital planBarclays shares reversed early gains to trade down 17.2% as traders noted that the 14% coupon attached to the bank's capital raising plans is higher that the coupon required from banks using the U.K. government for capital.The lender said it's going to raise up to 7.3 billion pounds ($11.9 billion) from existing and new investors, a deal that will allow it to boost its reserves without taking U.K. government aid. See Barclays story.Barclays also reported that nine-month pretax income was slightly ahead, as cost growth grew broadly in line with 'strong' income growth.Other banks trading with losses included HSBC Holdings , down 6.8%. Europe's largest lender by market capitalization was downgraded to sell from neutral at Goldman Sachs.'With the concerns over capital and liquidity easing, we believe investor focus is likely to shift back to on balance sheet lending exposures. Our most immediate concern here is HSBC's U.S. sub-prime exposure,' said the analysts.Also on the downside, natural gas supplier Centrica dropped 3.5% to 296 pence. It said Friday that it will issue 1.39 billion new shares at 160 pence per share to raise around 2.2 billion pounds ($3.6 billion), which it might use to fund the acquisition of a stake in nuclear power plant operator British Energy .Centrica also said that it continues to trade in line with expectations on a pretax basis. British Energy shares rose 0.7%.'We think the management statement will be overshadowed by the negative surprise coming from both the timing of this rights issue and the significant 40% discount to the ex-rights share price,' said analysts at Barclays Wealth. 
