* FTSE 100 up 0.1 pct  * BT results, Reed Elsevier update settle investor nerves  * Energy, mining stocks knocked by falling commodity prices  LONDON, Nov 13 (Reuters) - Britain's leading share index rose 0.1 percent in early trade Thursday as stronger-than-expected results from BT Group helped calm investor worries about the state of the global economy.  By 0917 GMT, the FTSE 100  had gained 3.44 points to 4,185.46 after falling 1.5 percent on Wednesday.  European shares were relatively resilient after U.S., Asian markets slid amid uncertainty about the U.S. Treasury's banking rescue plan and more signs of stress in the global economy.  BT Group was the blue chip index's biggest gainer, up 10.7 percent after it reported second-quarter earnings just ahead of revised forecasts and said it was in the process of cutting 10,000.  Reed Elsevier gained 6.5 percent after the professional information provider said it was on track to meet its full-year sales and earnings growth goals.  'The results this morning were reasonable, BT was not as bad as feared... but I think the rally (in these stocks) is untrustworthy and overall it still feels pretty murky,' said Paul Kavanagh, director at Stockbroker Killik &amp;amp; Co.  This offset falls in energy stocks as pessimism on the global economy sent oil to a 22-month low of $55 a barrel sending heavyweight energy stocks sharply lower.  BP fell 2.2 percent, Royal Dutch Shell slid 0.8 percent while Cairn Energy lost 3.3 percent.  Embattled miners were also on the back foot again as metals prices slid to multi-year lows on worries about the demand outlook.  Silver miner Fresnillo was the FTSE 100's top loser, down 9.9 percent, while Lonmin fell 0.7 percent and Xstrata lost 0.2 percent.  BHP Billiton fell 2.7 percent after it said it had scrapped a study into developing an integrated nickel project in eastern Indonesia. [ID:nSYU005525]  The UK mining index  is down 12.9 percent this month and 56 percent this year.  Financial stocks were also among the heaviest losers as worries about the banking sector in the face of the credit crisis continued to weigh.  Japan's Mizuho Financial Group  said it plans to raise fresh capital while Commonwealth Bank of Australia  warned it expected a big jump in bad loans.  Barclays fell 3.6 percent, HBOS slid 5.3 percent, while Royal Bank of Scotland lost 3.9 percent.  Other financial stocks also suffered with London Stock Exchange sinking 9.8 percent after it posted a 57 percent rise in operating profit but warned markets would remain difficult.  ICAP and Tullet Prebon fell 9.7 and 1.9 percent respectively after Morgan Stanley cut the ratings on both interdealer brokers. (Reporting by Simon Falush; Editing by Hans Peters)  
