HONG KONG (Reuters) - Asian shares fell on Thursday to their lowest this month on uncertainty about the U.S. Treasury's banking rescue plan and signs the global financial crisis biting deeper in Asia.  Japan's Mizuho Financial Group  said it plans to raise fresh capital, while Commonwealth Bank of Australia warned it expected a big jump in bad loans.  The announcements came on a bleak day that also included data showing China's industrial output slumped to a seven-year low, and follows a revenue warning from Intel Corp and a dismal forecast from U.S. electronics retailer Best Buy .  European shares were set to tumble as well, with Britain's FTSE 100  seen down as much as 2.2 percent.  Deepening gloom about the global economy led crude prices to hit a 22-month low of $55 a barrel. Metals such as platinum also dropped.  The Japanese yen retreated against the euro and the dollar after soaring on Wednesday on a flight-to-quality. Other Asian currencies fell, while Australia's central bank stepped in to support its tumbling Australian dollar.  'There isn't a lot of light right now,' said Hiroaki Osakabe, a fund manager at Chibagin Asset Management in Japan.  'With so many grim forecasts and the situation in developing nations growing worse, things are tough.'  BAILOUT UNCERTAINTY  The MSCI index of Asian stocks outside Japan  dropped 5.4 percent as of 0620 GMT after at one point hitting its lowest level since October 30.  Asian shares followed Wall Street lower after the U.S. Treasury on Wednesday backed away from using a $700 billion bailout fund to buy bad mortgage debt from lenders to focus instead on buying stakes in the U.S. banks themselves.  The shift in focus not only created uncertainty, but came after a raft of recent gloomy economic data worldwide.  Data showed China's industrial output slumped to a seven-year low last month as manufacturers throttled back production in response to weakness in the domestic property market and an unfolding slowdown in export demand.  
