By Jamie McGeever    LONDON, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Conflicting signals on the health of global money markets emerged on Wednesday as key interbank lending rates and spreads fell, but U.S. Treasury bill yields  remained anchored near zero, reflecting investor risk aversion.    On the surface, the continued decline in London interbank offered rates and spreads suggests conditions are easing.    Three-month dollar, euro and sterling Libor all fell on Wednesday, with dollar rates at their lowest since October 2004.    Key Libor spreads over anticipated central bank rates measured by Overnight Index Swaps narrowed -- euro and sterling Libor/OIS to their lowest levels in two months -- and dollar swap spreads over comparable Treasury yields fell too.    But analysts noted that bank-to-bank lending remains minimal as financial institutions hunker down ahead of the year-end.    The scramble for central bank cash and safe-haven debt as the year-end approached remained evident, despite a steep fall in overnight deposits at the European Central Bank which analysts said was due to its fine tuning operation on Tuesday.    'Libor/OIS has come down but is still pretty wide. And it's not an indicator for all credit,' said the head of short-term rates trading at a U.S. bank in London.    He noted that some large banks have raised funds via government-guaranteed bond issues in recent weeks but activity is unlikely to pick up between now and the new year.    What's more, the fact that U.S. Treasury bill yields remain mired near zero 'is a pretty ugly sign (showing) year-end factors at work.'    Three-month dollar Libor fell to 2.09875 percent , its biggest decline in a month, and the dollar Libor/OIS spread narrowed to 186 basis points.    Three-month euro Libor fell to 3.37750 percent -- it's fallen every session since Oct. 8 -- and sterling rates extended their uninterrupted two-month decline to 3.24813 percent.    The euro three-month Libor/OIS spread contracted further to 135 basis points and the sterling spread narrowed to 185 bps.    Two-year U.S. and euro swap spreads narrowed to 112 basis points and 85 basis points, respectively.    ECB DRAIN    Meanwhile, the amount of overnight cash deposited at the ECB fell sharply, figures showed on Wednesday, thanks to the bank's fine-tuning operation on Tuesday and not because banks are suddenly more willing to lend out.    Banks' overnight deposits at the ECB virtually halved, falling by more than 120 billion euros to 123.023 billion euros as of Dec. 9, the last day of an ECB reserve maintenance period.    Analysts said the fall was a consequence of the ECB draining 137.456 billion euros in overnight funds from euro zone money markets on Tuesday in a bid to smooth liquidity supplies.    'Rather than deposit cash in the ECB's deposit facility you'd be giving the cash to the ECB in form of yesterday's fine tuning,' explained Ralf Preusseur, fixed income strategist at Deutsche Bank in London.    'This could reverse in the next couple of days,' he said.    At the ECB's fine-tuning operation on Tuesday 95 banks bid to deposit a total of 152.655 billion euros in overnight funds at the central bank.    The deposits paid a weighted average rate of 2.94 percent and a marginal rate of 3.05 percent, with bids received in a range of 2.83-3.25 percent.    As Preusseur at Deutsche noted, these rates were some way above the ECB's overnight deposit rate which paid 2.75 percent as of Dec. 9.    From now on, however, deposits will pay 2.0 percent, following the ECB's record rate cut of 75 basis points last Thursday to 2.50 percent.    The ECB hopes the cut will have the added benefit of making it too unattractive for banks to pile their funds into its deposit facility and therefore think about restarting lending in money markets.    But all key ECB's rates will come down by 75 basis points, meaning the 'corridor' between overnight deposit and lending rates stays the same. This will do little to discourage banks from depositing cash at the ECB -- at a small loss -- rather than lend out, many argue.    (Additional reporting by Marc Jones in Frankfurt) Keywords: MARKETS MONEY    (Reporting by Jamie McGeever; editing by Ron Askew; Reuters Messaging: jamie.mcgeever.reuters.com@reuters.  net; +44 207 542 8510)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
