The cost of three-month dollar loans between banks fell Monday following two days of increases after the U.S. government stepped in to shore up the finances of Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. said it was splitting itself in two.  The interbank lending rate on three-month loans in dollars  known as the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor  fell by around 0.01 percentage points to 1.13 percent. Over the last couple of weeks, the big falls in the dollar rate experienced in the early part of the year had moderated and turned into increases amid concerns about capital shortages in banks.  Those concerns became particularly acute last Thursday before the U.S. government stepped in and offered Bank of America Corp. a $20 billion capital injection and around $120 billion of loan guarantees in return for a further stake in the country's biggest bank.  Meanwhile, the rate for three-month loans in euros  known as the European Interbank Offered Rate, or Euribor  decreased around 0.04 percentage points to 2.41 percent.  That decline came after the European Central Bank's decision last Thursday to cut its benchmark interest rate another half percentage point to 2 percent, the equal lowest level since the bank was formed ten years ago.  The equivalent rate for pounds fell about 0.02 percentage points to a fresh record low of 2.24 percent. The British government revealed Monday a second rescue plan for the country's banks, hoping to thaw frozen lending by offering to insure banks against large-scale losses on bad assets they already hold.  Interbank rates are important because they affect the cost of loans in the wider economy, for both businesses and individuals. Rates have been high during the financial crisis as banks have hoarded cash and worried that other lenders might collapse and not pay them back.  Though the interbank lending rates have fallen from highs over the last few weeks in the wake of large interest rate cuts around the world and massive central bank liquidity provisions, all three rates remain above the levels markets think benchmark interest rates will be in three months.
