POOR economic indicators have prompted renewed calls from economists and industry leaders for a second household stimulus package and further interest rate cuts.  An Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry survey of 1000 companies for the December quarter, released yesterday, showed business confidence at a 10-year low, with business believing investment, profits and employment would fall dramatically this year.  And data from the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries revealed a 3.6 per cent drop in new car sales last year, with an 11 per cent drop in December, despite dealers dramatically cutting prices.  In further bad news for the car industry, the FCAI expects sales to drop from more than a million last year to 880,000 this year. This would see a fall in local car production to its lowest since 2002.  Commonwealth Bank senior economist John Peters said yesterday the negative economic trends strengthened calls for the Federal Government to develop a second stimulus package before the budget, even if the budget fell into deficit.  'There is a bit of voodoo economics going on here, this idea of maintaining budget surpluses,' Mr Peters said.  'I mean, what is a surplus (for) but to be spent during economic downtimes?'  The Government released a $10.4 billion stimulus plan in October, aimed at sparking falling consumer spending.  Retail sales figures for November  to be released tomorrow by the Bureau of Statistics  are expected to reveal whether that package has had some effect. Figures for the crucial Christmas period will be released later.  Mr Peters' comments were backed by Shane Oliver, chief economist at AMP. He said that a second household economic stimulus package would almost certainly be needed, and that running a budget deficit would be 'a perfectly sound thing to do, given the current economic circumstance'.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said last week a second stimulus package before the budget was one option being considered to provide a short-term boost. Continued...  
