PM Lending to Australian consumers and businesses shrank last month for the first time since 1992, raising the likelihood that the Reserve Bank will make another big interest rate cut next week.  Total credit provided by financial companies fell 0.3% in December from the previous month, according to Reserve Bank of Australia figures out today.  ''The RBA will see this as another reason to continue its aggressive monetary policy,'' said Nik Bhattacharyya associate economist at Moody's Economy.com.  Economists had been expecting a 0.5% month-on-month gain. From a year earlier, total credit was 6.7% higher, compared with an expectation of a 7.5% increase.  The surprise slump in lending fell largely in the business sector, which fell 1.1%. Consumer borrowing dropped by a similar amount as shoppers cut back on credit card use.  The Federal Government has warned local banks may need help in taking up some of the loans to corporations that may not be rolled over as foreign banks retreat amid a global crunch crunch. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has flagged a $4 billion fund to help support lending to the commercial property industry alone.'Today's data confirm the credit rationing and tightening up in lending standards of recent months,' said RBC Capital Market's Su-Lin Ong said in note to clients.  The Reserve Bank board meets on Tuesday, with financial markets expecting a full percentage point cut to 3.25%, as the central bank battles to prevent the economy tipping into a recession.  The Australian dollar retreated after the release of the credit figures, trading at about 64.7 US cents in recent trade, down about 0.2 US cents.  Housing risks  Housing credit rose 0.4% in December, and by 7.6% over the year, seasonally adjusted.  Although housing finance continued to expand, Moody's Mr Bhattacharyya said the credit squeeze may trigger deflationary pressures, particularly in property prices, already advanced in the US and UK.  ''The major worry is that private sector credit might dry up and could have a deflationary effect on property prices,'' he said.  If home buyers can't take out the loans required by property prices, home sellers will eventually have to lower prices, Mr Bhattacharyya said.  ''The RBA and government have both been trying to prevent property prices from falling to avoid the situation that's happened in the US and UK, where property price inflation has weighed on the greater economy. And on household spending.''  Other personal credit was down 1.1% in December, falling 5.2% over the year.  Debt demand wilts  Business credit fell 1.1% in the month, and increased 8% over the year.  RBC's Ms Ong said the drop in business loans indicate a mix of dwindling supply and wilting demand for debt.  Although business lending was subdued for a lot of last year, 'today's outcome was particularly sobering and most likely reflects both sides of the supply and demand equation for credit.' 'Under pressure and facing a squeeze on margins, business are clearly not expanding and have little appetite for debt and growth,' said Ms Ong. 'The impact upon output and employment has yet to be fully felt.' Analysts expect the employment rate - currently at 4.5% - to creep up this year, as the gears of the economy slow in sync with dropping demand and falling levels of lending. Economists are predicting joblessness to rise as high as 9% by 2010.  Consumer prices fell in the December quarter from the previous three months, the first quarter-on-quarter slide in prices since 1997, the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported this week.  BusinessDay With AAP Page: 12single page 
