NEW YORK, Jan 15 (Reuters) - U.S. producer prices fell for   a fifth straight month in December, partly on a record drop in   gasoline prices, government data showed on Thursday, indicating   that inflation pressures were likely to stay muted for a The number of U.S. workers filing new claims for   unemployment benefits rebounded last week after a brief   holiday-induced slowdown, government data showed on Thursday,   suggesting that the year-long recession was deepening. * The Labor Department said the producer price index fell 1.9   percent in December after dropping 2.2 percent the previous * Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast a 2 percent decline   in the overall index. Compared to the same period last year,   the producer price index fell 0.9 percent, the lowest reading   since October 2006, when the index decreased by 1.2 percent.   * Core producer prices excluding food and energy costs   increased by 0.2 percent in December, slightly above market   expectations for a rise of 0.1 percent. Core PPI rose 0.1 * Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits   rose 54,000 to a seasonally adjusted 524,000 in the week ended   Jan. 10 from an upwardly revised 470,000 the prior week, the * It was the highest reading for initial claims since the week   ending Dec. 20, when new applications for unemployment aid were * A Labor Department official said seasonal adjustment factors   anticipated this would be the highest week of year for   unadjusted claims. Last week was the first of three weeks BRIAN DOLAN, CHIEF CURRENCY STRATEGIST, FOREX.COM, 'The U.S. (numbers) are slightly dollar-positive (because)   it's not all worse than expected. Minor improvements in the New   York Fed Empire index and a drop in continuing claims are the   bright spots, but initial claims are still higher, with   non-seasonally adjusted claims up. So there is still more   erosion in the labor market. A number of seasonal and holiday   related issues are still affecting the data.'   KURT KARL, CHIEF U.S. ECONOMIST, SWISS RE, NEW YORK:   PPI: 'Year-over-year is now deflationary. That's what I   expect for CPI tomorrow. There's a major drop off the cliff in   inflation with big drops in food and energy.   'We are heading into deflationary environment in 2009. It's   the inversion of the energy and food price increases last year.   I don't think we'll be back to inflation until 2010 so that's   not a major worry.   JOBLESS CLAIMS: 'Last week's report was due to a shortened   holiday week. This week, we have the catch-up from last week.   The 500,000 figure is still terrible.'   'The good news is four-week is edging down. With the bigger   stimulus package and monetary stimulus, financial markets are   doing better in some sense. Companies will become more cautious   in layoffs in the coming months.'   DAVID SLOAN, ECONOMIST, 4CAST LTD, NEW YORK:   'Core PPI was slightly firmer than expected. It seems that   we have gains in auto prices, but it is a volatile sector so I   would not get too excited about the slightly firmer than   expected core rate. The headline was as expected. The jobless   claims rose from the previous week so they do suggest the   previous two weeks were distorted by the holidays. They were   higher than expected but they are not back at the highs of   early December. It suggests January payrolls will be another CRAIG PECKHAM, EQUITY TRADING STRATEGIST, JEFFERIES &amp; COMPANY, 'The first thought when you look at the (claims) numbers is   that it's obviously an uptick, but I don't think the data   points to an acceleration in the rate of job decline. If   there's any silver lining, it's that while the employment   situation is sluggish, nothing points to intensification.   'For PPI, I guess what we were a bit surprised about is   that on a core basis, pricing was a little higher than the   market expected. I don't think anyone is worried about upside   pressure. This levels seems consistent with an economy that   isn't collapsing because of pricing pressure, and on a   counterintuitive sense, this could be positive.   'I think that company-specific issues, like JPMorgan or now   what we're learning about the Bank of America, is going to   trump economic data today.' STOCKS: U.S. equity index futures hold losses.   BONDS: U.S. Treasury debt prices erased gains.   DOLLAR: U.S. dollar holds gains.   OTHER DATA FROM JAN 15:   NY Fed manufacturing rout eases but still dire (Reporting by New York Treasuries Desk; +1-646 223-6300)  Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 
