The fall in the consumer price index in the December quarter is further evidence of the impact of the global recession and falling commodity prices on the economy, Treasurer Wayne Swan says.  Consumer prices fell for the first time in two years during the December quarter due to lower prices for petrol, cars, health products and financial services.  The consumer price index fell 0.3% in the December quarter, the biggest drop since September 1997, data released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics said on Wednesday.  Mr Swan said the moderation in underlying inflation compared to recent quarters also suggested that inflation pressures were easing more broadly.  ''While the annual inflation rate remains high, this reflects inflationary pressures from earlier in 2008,'' he said. ''Inflation is expected to continue to ease over the next six to 12 months, as the full effect of weaker world economic conditions flows through.''  The annual inflation rate fell to 3.7% from 5.0% in the 12 months to September, dragging it back towards the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) 2%-3% target band.  The average of the RBA's weighted median and trimmed mean underlying measures rose 0.75% in the December quarter compared to 1.25% growth in the previous quarter.  But this cut the average underlying annual rate to 4.35% from 4.7% in the 12 months to September.  Mr Swan said fighting inflation was no longer the government's chief focus, but remained a high priority in terms of the government's medium-term fiscal strategy.  It was crucial other areas of the economy be buttressed against deteriorating global conditions, he said.  ''Inflation is definitely moderating, it is not the economic challenge in the short term, supporting growth and jobs is.  The treasurer said lifting the nation's productivity was also imperative so that when growth returns,''we don't get the sort of inflationary pressures building in the way in which they built in the last couple of years''.  ''Inflation is certainly moderating, the Reserve Bank sees it that way, stated that publicly in its last statement on monetary policy, and we do see it moderating as well.''  AAP 
