SYDNEY - Australian employment fell by less than expected overall in December, but a steep drop in full-time positions and a rise in the jobless rate heralded weakness ahead, reinforcing the case for further interest rate cuts.  Australia's unemployment rate rose to 4.5 per cent in December, from 4.4 per cent in November, seasonally adjusted, with 1,200 jobs lost during the month, figures released on Thursday by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) showed.  The employment fall of 1,200 in December was due to a fall of 43,900 in full-time employment, while part-time employment rose by 42,800.  A Reuters poll showed market forecasts of a fall of 20,000 in employment in December, with the unemployment rate rising to 4.5 per cent and the participation rate falling to 65.00 per cent.   Leading indicators of labour demand, like job advertisements and business surveys, have taken a dramatic turn for the worse since September, pointing to a sizeable rise in unemployment in the months ahead, with job advertisements tumbling to their lowest since the recession of 1982.  Most analysts now expect unemployment to rise steadily towards six per cent or more by the end of the year, and a few even fear an increase towards nine per cent in 2010.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), which is due to meet again in February, has cut interest rates by 300 basis points since September, partly in anticipation of a worsening jobs market.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) chief economist Michael Blythe said the overall result was weak, despite the stronger-than-expected headline figure. 'The headline number was stronger than the consensus view, but it's clearly a weak result overall. The unemployment rate is starting to creep up so the slowdown in the economy has flowed through to the labour market,' Mr Blythe said. 'But given the global backdrop, and some of the domestic doom and gloom, the figures we have seen so far at least have held up reasonably well.' ABN Amro chief economist Kieran Davies also said the fundamentals of the labour market were poor. 'It was much better than we were factoring in, but the fundamentals of the labour market are poor,' Mr Davies said. 'If you look at what business surveys are saying about hiring intentions, they are pointing to a sharp deterioration for labour demand. 'We are still looking for unemployment to rise to 6.5-6.75 per cent by the end of the year. A part of that will hinge on how many people give up looking for work. 'The RBA is looking at unemployment to rise. At this point, we are still looking for a 50 basis point cut in February.' Macquarie senior economist Brian Redican said described the data as a 'mixed report' that indicated workers were switching to part-time from full-time work as their hours were being cut. 'There's a switch going on from full-time to part-time as hours are cut, which usually comes before outright job shedding,' Mr Redican said. 'It could have been much worse given the global backdrop but clearly things have deteriorated since December. 'This is more a stay of execution. Unemployment is set to rise a lot further, reaching six per cent by year and a peak of 6.5 per cent in 2010. 'The Reserve Bank (RBA) is well aware of the outlook for unemployment and will be cutting rates accordingly. We see 75 basis points in February and a low around 2.5 per cent this year.' ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said an unemployment rate of 4.5 per cent was outstanding in the context of the world economic environment, but it was set to rise. 'The magnitude will be all important and I expect a 6.5 per cent jobless rate probably by the end of this year,' Mr Carr said. 'The Reserve Bank will cut rates by at least 50 basis points in February given the deteriorating global environment.' 'Today's numbers don't support an aggressive cut. They show an expected deterioration in the labour market but from a very healthy level.' NAB chief economist markets Rob Henderson said the number of full-time jobs had fallen quite a lot. 'The employment rate ticked up as expected and the number of full-time jobs fell quite a lot, whereas part-time increased significantly,' Mr Henderson said. 'The numbers are pretty ugly, and certainly point to worse to come.' 
