By Rachel Pannett Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES CANBERRA -(Dow Jones)- Australia faces a ballooning current account deficit in 2009 as global demand for the resource-rich nation's export commodities evaporates but consumers' appetite for imports remains resilient, according to Access Economics. The Canberra-based think tank, in its latest quarterly Business Outlook published Monday, predicts the current account deficit will blow out to a massive 10% of gross domestic product in the September quarter, from just 3.2% of GDP in September 2008. In the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, the current account deficit will be around A$109 billion, or 9% of GDP, it said. 'We are faced with not just a very deep global recession, but one where Australia's (slowdown) will be rather smaller than elsewhere. So, our appetite for imports won't be completely cut off. But the world appetite for our exports is going to be very weak and the price they'll pay, regardless of how much they buy, will be much less than what we've been used to in recent times,' Access Director Chris Richardson told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview. 'The pain will become particularly evident from the start of April when coal and iron ore contracts roll over onto the new year. That combination is very ugly,' he said. Richardson wouldn't be drawn on whether such a large deficit may threaten Australia's triple-A sovereign debt rating. However, neighboring New Zealand, which notched up a sizable current account deficit of around 8% of GDP in 2008, had its double-A-plus rating put under review by international credit rating agency Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings last week. S&amp;P said a deterioration in the New Zealand government's budget position, combined with the dire external current account deficit, was behind the review. Australia's current account deficit, if brought to the attention of the international investment community, could reduce the flow of foreign capital into the country, making it difficult to service debt. Already in New Zealand, there are signs foreigners are losing their appetite for local assets, with offshore holdings of government securities falling to 65.2% in December from 68.3% a month earlier. 'I don't think the markets have done the math yet - if you think in terms of the punishment they've meted out to a number of nations in recent times that spent more than they earned and are having difficulty financing that because credit markets are jumpy,' Richardson said. 'Australia exactly fits that bill but we haven't faced the same sort of punishment. It's not clear to me that will last, especially as people realize what a hit is coming to our export earnings from April,' when contract prices achieved by Australian miners in annual price negotiations due next month take effect, he said. During a five-year boom in commodities, prices for many of Australia's mineral and energy products, such as thermal coal and iron ore, rose by as much as fivefold, but prices have since fallen sharply with returns only moderated by a sharply weaker Australian dollar. 'Australia has done well for so long, but in recent years off the back of the protection afforded to our high-spending lifestyle by (demand from) China and the commodity prices it generated,' Richardson said. In other forecasts in Monday's Business Outlook, Access Economics expects Australian gross domestic product growth of just 0.8% in the current fiscal year ending June 30, 2009, from 3.7% in fiscal 2007-08. It forecasts growth will pick up to 2.4% in the year beginning July 1, 2009. Access also predicts Australia's unemployment rate will push out to 5.8% by the end of calendar 2009 and 7.2% by the end of 2010. Turning to inflation, Access expects the headline consumer price index to peak at 3.9% in fiscal 2008-09, and underlying inflation to rise to 3.7% from 3.3% in 2007-08. In 2009-10, Access predicts headline inflation will ease to 2.0% and underlying inflation to 2.6%. It expects the Australian dollar to average US$0.7470 in fiscal 2008-09, unchanged from its October Business Outlook. But it lowered its 2009-10 forecast to US$0.5970, from US$0.6750 previously. Access Economics also forecast that official interest rates in Australia will fall to 2.5% in 2009 as the Reserve Bank of Australia attempts to engineer a soft landing for the economy. -By Rachel Pannett, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-6208-0901; rachel.pannett@dowjones.com 
