The dollar loss steam at the end of the session as risk appetite shifted substantially in intraday trading. The EurUsd recovered nearly 130pips to the low range of 1.30, while the UsdJpy dropped 50pips finding support near 89. The GbpUsd gained 40 pips finding resistance near 1.40, slowly crawling back to stable levels after a landslide over the last several days. Equities started slow but amassed triple digit gain of 279pts in the Dow by the end of the session, a much needed lift after lack luster performance in the previous session. Bond yields rose in the US at the latter part of the session, but rates have plenty of room to go before they return to historical averages. Commodities were mixed with positive momentum in the energy sector, oil rose 8% to $44bbl while precious metals gave up light ground settling around $854oz.   The 'Crisis-Response' plan mentioned by the Obama administration was enough to trigger a strong swing in risk appetite to the upside boosting the Euro and Sterling. Despite news that S&amp;P proceeded to lower its ratings on Portugals long-term debt, the risk aversion trade held strong and buttressed major currency pairs against the dollar. A bit of light optimism regarding the economic outlook in the US, was enough to spark some bullish activity in the markets. Insider trades at Bank of America and JP Morgan, show a bit of confidence by senior management that the govt. plans will work. Watch the VIX and equity futures to gauge what the climate will be like tomorrow in the FX market, these are good barometers for fear (risk appetite).  ACM FOREX   Disclaimer: This report has been prepared by AC Markets (thereof ACM) and is solely been published for informational purposes and is not to be construed as a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any currency or any other financial instrument. Views expressed in this report may be subject to change without prior notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by Salesperson or Traders of ACM at any given time. ACM is under no obligation to update or keep current the information herein, the report should not be regarded by recipients as a substitute for the exercise of their own judgment. 
