 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   RIO, WDC, SRA, STO, WOW, GUD, BLD, LGL, AGG, NEM, BOQ, FAN, NZO,   AAP 2009-01-28   A sharp contraction in the economy during November appears to strengthen expectations that Australia this year will experience its first recession since 1991.  The Westpac/Melbourne Institute leading index of economic activity contracted by 2.2 per cent in November, compared to a downwardly revised 0.3 per cent contraction in October.  The survey indicates the likely pace of economic growth three to nine months into the future.  November marks the fourth consecutive month the index has been below the long-term trend of 3.5 per cent, due mainly to falls in dwelling approvals, share markets and US industrial production.  Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the index was a guide as to whether Australia might slip into recession in 2009, with the November result increasing that risk. 'We are now reporting the first negative reads for growth since May 2001,' Mr Evans said. 'In the past, this has been a useful signal of the likelihood of Australia experiencing a recession.' The October index of economic activity had indicated there was a possibility of Australia entering recession in 2009, Mr Evans noted. 'This sharp fall in the growth rate of the leading index [in November] coupled with the further deterioration in the global growth environment since our last report intensifies the risks that the Australian economy will contract through 2009,' Mr Evans said. Westpac's preferred definition of recession is economic contraction over a year, Mr Evans said. 'Using that definition, Australia has experienced three recessions since 1965,' he said. Recession in Australia occurred in 1974/75, 1982/83 and 1991, Mr Evans said. 'As an early indicator of those recessions, we saw the growth rate in the leading index turn negative around a year before it was possible to conclude that a recession had occurred,' Mr Evans said. Mr Evans said growth in the leading index declined from 4.4 per cent in July to a 2.2 per cent contraction four months later.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would cut the cash rate next Tuesday in a bid to stimulate the local economy, Mr Evans said.  Since September, the RBA has lowered the cash rate by three percentage points to a six-and-a-half year low of 4.25 per cent. 'The Reserve Bank board next meets on February 3 and there seems little doubt that it will decide to further reduce the overnight cash rate,' he said. Debt futures markets are pricing a rate cut of at least three-quarters of a percentage point to a 1965 low of 3.5 per cent.  Ed Logue
