 Risk trends have been driving moves in the forex markets, and this coming week shouldnt be any different. The Australian dollar and  both face heavy event risk from the release of Australian CPI and an expected rate cut by the RBNZ. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve is anticipated to leave rates unchanged and US GDP may contract by the most since 1982, leaving the US dollar and Japanese given prone to volatility given the potential impact of these reports on risk appetite.   Australian Consumer Price Index (4Q) - January 27  Australia's headline consumer price index is forecasted to have fallen 0.4 percent during the fourth quarter, bringing the annual rate down to 3.6 percent from 5.0 percent. The quarterly contraction would be the first in two years and the sharpest drop in eleven years, and may also add to speculation that the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut rates aggressively during their next meeting on February 2. As it stands, a Bloomberg News poll of economists is forecasting a 50 basis point reduction to 3.75 percent, while Credit Suisse overnight index swaps are close to pricing in a 100 basis point reduction to 3.25 percent, and combined with a sharp drop in CPI, this sentiment could weigh on the Australian dollar. However, if inflation pressures prove to be stronger than anticipated, the currency could actually rise. Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) Rate Decision - January 28  The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is widely expected to leave the fed funds target range at 0.0 percent - 0.25 percent, and this should remain the case throughout much of the year. In fact, the FOMC said in December that their focus going forward will shift to supporting the functioning of financial markets and the stimulation of the economy through open market operations and other measures that sustain the size of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet at a high level. Thus, the only important part of this meeting will be to watch the FOMCs subsequent monetary policy statement to see if they announce any new efforts meant to improve credit conditions. The statement may have an impact on risk trends, and any news that is positive for the stock markets may be negative for the greenback, which has been trading solely as a safe-haven asset lately. Reserve Bank of New Zealand Rate Decision - January 28  On January 19, data showed that New Zealand's consumer price index fell during Q4 for the first time in two years and by the most in ten years at a rate of 0.5 percent, bringing the annual rate down to 3.4 percent from 5.1 percent. While the annual rate is still above the Reserve Bank of New Zealands 1 percent - 3 percent target band, the news added to speculation that the RBNZ will cut rates aggressively during their next meeting on January 28. As it stands, both a Bloomberg News poll of economists and Credit Suisse overnight index swaps are forecasted a 100 basis point reduction to 4.00 percent, and this sentiment could weigh on the . However, if the RBNZ suggests in their policy statement that they may refrain from cutting rates any further, the currency could actually rally. Euro-zone Consumer Price Index Estimate (4Q A) - January 30  Eurostat estimates for Euro-zone CPI are projected to show at 5:00 ET that inflation growth eased to a nearly 10-year low of 1.4 percent in January from 1.6 percent. Given European Central Bank President (ECB) Jean-Claude Trichets more bearish stance on economic growth and the banks total of 225 basis points worth of rate cuts since October, a weaker-than-expected CPI reading could exacerbate the markets speculation that the central bank will cut rates again on February 5, and weigh on the euro. On the other hand, if CPI does not fall further, the currency could gain as the markets assume the central bank will leave rates unchanged next month and wait until March to make monetary policy more accommodative. US Gross Domestic Product (4Q A) - January 23  The 08:30 ET advanced reading of Q4 GDP for the US is forecasted to contract for the second straight quarter at a rate of -5.4 percent, which would mark the worst decline since Q1 1982. The National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) has already declared that the US has been in recession since December 2007, but a plunge in GDP in line with expectations will only suggest that the contraction in growth will continue to be worse than previously expected. The Federal Reserve really has no room to make monetary policy more accommodative, so traders should watch for the impact of this report on equities, as a surge in risk aversion may only lead the US dollar higher despite the disappointing fundamental scenario. See the DailyFX Calendar for a full list, timetable, and consensus forecasts for upcoming economic indicators.  Send questions or comments to tbelkas@dailyfx.com 
