Borrowing moneyto buy shares is expected to remain an important part of financial planning, despite the number of investors who were caught out by the hammering of stock markets last year.  Prosperity Advisers director, financial services, Gavin Fernando says the takeup of margin loans had softened but it remained a legitimate way to create wealth even though the heady days of double-digit share value growth are over.  'I think what will happen is that it will be used more judiciously,' Mr Fernando said.  'It will be used probably in the way it should has been used all along, and not in the over-aggressive way it had been used by some in the past.  'I think they've become very conservative and very concerned about their position and less likely to undertake any further gearing than they were at any time in the past 12 months,' Mr Fernando said on Friday.  'They've gone almost full circle.'  A margin loan is where money is borrowed to invest, usually in shares.  The investor receives a 'margin call' when the value of the shares falls below a certain percentage of the total amount borrowed.  To reduce the loan size, investors either top up the loan with additional funds or sell some of the shares to repay the money.  Reserve Bank of Australia(RBA) figures showed the number of margin calls rose sharply in the second half of 2008.  There were 4.32 margin calls made per day per 1000 clients in the September quarter of last year, the highest level in five and a half years, which was up sharply from 1.75 the previous quarter.  The S&amp;P/ASX All Ordinaries dipped below 5,000 points during the September quarter, but more significant falls came in October and November, when the index slumped to less than half its November 1, 2007, peak of 6,853.6 points.  Mr Fernando said borrowers usually had until the end of the day to react to a margin call, but lenders were now showing a bit more flexibility.  'Where there is some light at the end of the tunnel, lenders have shown a willingness to work with the borrower where there is a plan in place,' Mr Fernando said.  'These aren't ordinary conditions right at the moment.'  Mr Fernando said margin loans were not for every investor and urged those considering the product to take a conservative approach with a low loan-to-valuation ratio (LVR) and ensure there was some form of income protection in place.  (An LVR compares the amount borrowed versus the value of the purchased shares.)  He said investing in the stock market was a long-term proposition, with shares usually held for between four and eight years to maximise their potential.  
