 Australia's consumer prices dipped into deflation for the first time in two years in the recently ended quarter, a development that's likely to be scrutinized carefully at the Reserve Bank of Australia's monetary policy board meeting next week. Consumer prices fell 0.3% in the fourth quarter, reversing a 1.2% rise in the third, as prices for gasoline, automobiles, prescription drugs and loans declined, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said Wednesday. On an annual basis, prices rose 3.7% from the year-earlier period, moderating from a 5% annual rise in the July-September quarter. Analysts had forecast 0.4% on-quarter deflation and 3.6% on-year inflation. The decline was the sharpest in any quarter since July-September 1997. Analysts said softer consumer price-data could provide the leeway the central bank needs to cut interest rates further. Markets were reportedly expecting a cut of as much as 1 percentage point when the policy board convenes next Tuesday. 'It looks like they are headed for their first recession in 18 years. They are clearly feeling the drag from lower global export demand,' said David Cohen, director of Asian forecasting at Action Economics in Singapore. Cohen said the Reserve Bank will probably cut interest rates by 1 percentage point next week to help dampen a likely contraction in the economy that began in the fourth quarter. Australia's economy expanded 0.1% in the third quarter from the second. The Australian dollar eased to $0.6656 mid-afternoon in Sydney from $0.6720 in overnight trade. Australia's base lending rate currently stands at 3.25%. A cut of up to 1 percentage point would see the rate fall to its lowest level since the mid-1960s. Costs related to transportation fell the most, led by a more than 18% decline in gasoline and a 2.4% slide in automobile prices. Costs related to food, housing, alcohol and tobacco all recorded gains. Economic indicators released Wednesday suggested the economy may be already in, or just at the threshold, of falling into recession. Westpac Banking Corp.'s leading activity index declined at an annualized rate of 2.2% in November. Economists said the slew of weaker data could draw further action to spur the economy, including a second round of stimulus measures. Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said Wednesday he expects to see further downward revisions to the global growth forecast, as the data for industrialized nations reveal an increasingly grim picture. 'Given that there has been a further slowing in global growth, we have got to evaluate that,' Swan was quoted in news reports as saying Wednesday. Swan did not make reference to what measures the government would consider, but on earlier occasions had alluded to bringing forward income-tax cuts to spur growth and help halt surging job losses. Chris Oliver is MarketWatch's Asia bureau chief, based in Hong Kong.
