THE severity of the global economic downturn has exceeded all expectations.  The crisis is expected to persist until battered confidence is replaced by renewed faith in economic policymakers.  Warwick McKibbin, leading academic and member of the Reserve Bank of Australia board, said yesterday he had been surprised by the weakness in economic data across the major economies.  'It definitely has' exceeded expectations in terms of severity. 'I have been surprised by just how bad the negative numbers have been,' he said.  The extent of the crisis was unusual in terms of modern experience 'and it could really end up anywhere. But if people are reassured that policymakers know what they are doing, then things could turn pretty quickly'.  However, 'the world is looking rather sick at the moment', he said.  The RBA board will meet for the first time in two months on February 3 amid increasing pressure to further slash official interest rates as Australia's major trading partners in northern Asia report a rapid slowdown in growth.  Professor McKibbin said the hit to confidence was a global phenomenon that set this economic crisis apart from just about all previous crises.  'This shock is different because we have got that crisis of confidence everywhere. On top of that, we have got a freezing up of capital, so there is no capital flowing anywhere.'  The fiscal and monetary stimulus in the global economy would eventually yield results, he said.  'It is just a question of when.'  The global economy would not contract despite the extent of the crisis in markets, as emerging markets would cushion the blow from the major economies, he said.  China, Australia's largest bilateral trading partner, was likely to start feeling the benefits of stimulus announced by its Government last year, but the risk remained that soured confidence could undermine and slow any recovery.  'If people fail to respond to the stimulus simply because they have lost confidence, it is going to be much harder to see a recovery,' Professor McKibbin said.  China was being 'hammered' by a downturn in trade, he said. 'China's switch from an export to a consumer demand-led economy has not happened as fast as I had hoped but this is an opportunity for that to happen, and I think it will happen. It is just a question of when.'  The policy response so far across the globe had contributed to the depth of the crisis in markets, Professor McKibbin said, and the decision to allow Lehman Brothers to go into bankruptcy in September 2008 topped the list of inadequate policy decisions.  'I think it has been the accumulation of bad data, plus inappropriate policy response by a key large country,' he said.  'Letting Lehman go turned out to be a mistake but at the time it was hard to know,' he added. It would have been difficult to estimate the extent to which counterparty risk would grow as a result of the demise of Lehman.  Professor McKibbin also dismissed talk that the crisis marked the end of capitalism. He was concerned that some policymakers were starting to assert such ideas.  'We do not need a new model for economics and it is not the end of capitalism ... I think the incentives have to be right and the framework has to be transparent. There have to be clear compliance mechanisms put in place.'  He said that, looking further back into history, it was clear that the extent of interest rate cuts by the US Federal Reserve in the late 1990s and early 2000s had contributed to today's strife.  'You probably do not want to apportion blame but you want to learn the lessons,' he said.  
