Sydney: Australia's producer prices rose by more than expected last quarter as a slump in the Australian dollar sent import costs surging, but signs of easing inflationary pressures at home kept the door open for more rate cuts.  A separate survey of businesses out yesterday showed a surprising rebound in activity in December thanks to government pump-priming efforts, arguing for further fiscal help as well. 'It shows that fiscal stimulus proved effective in Dec-ember and adds to the case for more, probably sooner rather than later,' said Brian Redican, a senior economist at Macquarie. 'And we're still on course for another rate cut next week.' The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) holds its monthly policy meeting on February 3 and investors are counting on a cut of at least 75 basis points in the 4.25 per cent cash rate. The central bank has already slashed rates by 3 percentage points since September in a desperate effort to cushion the country from a world recession. 'The RBA's very much focused on the deteriorating outlook for the global economy, and we continue to revise down our global growth forecasts,' said Helen Kevans, an economist at JPMorgan. 'So we'll probably see a 100 basis-point cut next week.' Indeed, analysts argued that the jump in import prices seen last quarter augured ill for company profit margins and actually reinforced the case for more policy easing.  Overall, prices at the final stage of production increased by 1.3 per cent in the fourth quarter, well above forecasts of a 0.1 per cent rise. That was entirely driven by a 14.8 per cent rise in import prices, which in turn reflected weakness in the Australian dollar which fell by 25 per cent between July and December in trade weighted terms.  In fact, domestic prices took a rare 0.5 per cent dip in the fourth quarter, the first drop in a decade, with housing construction costs notably weak. That added to expectations the government's index of consumer prices (CPI), due today, would show a drop of around 0.4 per cent in the fourth quarter, the largest since 1997.  Annual inflation is seen slowing to around 3.6 per cent, from 5 per cent in the third quarter, and could well re-enter the central bank's 2 to 3 per cent target band this quarter.
