NEWS - U.S. jobless rolls hit record peak, orders plummet - Obama, Japan's Aso agree to cooperate on economic crisis - U.S. December home sales fall to record lows - U.S. manufacturers to slash spending in downturn - Trichet says ECB not ruled out rates below 2 pct - Ford posts loss, draws $10 billion in credit - Shell reports big drop in Q4 profits, raises Q1 dividend - Airlines face tough 2009 as freight collapses - IATA - German Jan jobless rise is biggest in nearly 4 years - Wen says Chinese stimulus package can be improved - Crisis may boost social problems in Russia - Medvedev - Russian state bank stops investing in stocks - RIA - French workers stage nationwide strike - Sony sinks to Q3 loss; Nintendo, Nippon Steel cut outlook - BOJ's Nishimura eyes ways to lower longer rates - New Zealand central bank cuts rates to record low  MARKETS - Wall Street trades lower, the Dow Jones down 1 percent, on dismal earnings and economic gloom. European shares fall 1.8 percent. - Oil falls towards $41 a barrel on demand worries. - Yen, dollar gain as US data hits risk appetite.  QUOTES 'I think it's by far the most volatile period we've ever seen ... This is unprecedented. We're not seeing any signs of recovery yet.' - Ford Chief Financial Officer Lewis Booth. 'We don't see much relief (for the economy) until much later this year. We are passing through the darkest part of the storm right now.' - Tim Quinlan, economic analyst at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, North Carolina. 'Governments and central banks are acting promptly, but uncertainty over the outlook for the global economy, as well as the financial crisis in the United States and Europe, remains high ... It's not certain whether the measures taken up till now are enough.' - Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura. 'The aggressive move pre-empts a lot of the downside risk to the economic outlook.' - ASB Bank Chief Economist Nick Tuffley after New Zealand rate cut.  EVENTS/DIARY/DATA THURSDAY, JAN 29 DAVOS - Second day of World Economic Forum. WASHINGTON - Labor Dept. issues weekly jobless claims. (Compiled by London World Desk; +44 207 542 4878) Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 1630 GMT   Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 
