LOAN COSTS REDUCED: A big reduction in the official cash rate yesterday has given couples such as Christchurch's Sharon Jukes and Craig Benton plenty to smile about.  Related Links  Subscribe to Archivestuff  Comment on this story  The latest cut in interest rates spells relief for homeowners Sharon Jukes and Craig Benton of Christchurch.  They will benefit from the 1.5 percentage point drop in the Official Cash Rate (OCR) after switching to a floating rate in December when their mortgage came up for renewal.  They have a large mortgage after building a new home in Cashmere three years ago. They came off a fixed rate of 7.99 per cent and were now on Kiwibank's 6.49 per cent floating rate, saving $86 a week.  Jukes, 45, a sales representative, said they were still making the same repayments as before but were paying more off the principle. She was not sure if they would continue with that or save the extra money.  Economists warn the latest cut will not be enough to revive the flagging housing market.  Worries about job losses would prevent many people from buying a new home.  Savers are being hit as the interest rate for term deposits has halved in 12 months.  The OCR is now 3.5 per cent and has fallen 4.75 percentage points from a peak of 8.25 per cent in June. Economists have predicted more falls and expect the OCR to be 2 per cent to 2.5 per cent by the end of April.  The OCR controls the interest rate the Reserve Bank charges on money it lends to New Zealand banks.  The fall had an immediate impact on mortgage rates with all the major banks dropping their floating rates below 7 per cent yesterday. SBS Bank was leading the market with a 6.45 per cent floating rate. . The lowest two-year rate was 5.88 per cent offered by TSB, closely followed by Westpac and BNZ on 5.89 per cent.  People with a $200,000 mortgage taken out over 25 years in February last year on a floating rate of 9.99 per cent would save $466 a month if on Kiwibank's new 6.49 per cent floating rate.  'Ordinarily, these sorts of mortgage rates would have a queue outside the door of people scrapping to get hold of money,' ASB chief economist Nick Tuffley said. But he believed any impact on the housing market would be minimal. 'It's not going to start a fresh boom.'  Job security remained a fundamental concern for many people, he said. Unemployment is expected to rise to more than 7 per cent this year from 4.2 per cent in the September quarter last year. An additional 75,000 people could be out of a job.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia's New Zealand economist, Chris Tennent-Brown, said such uncertainty affected people's enthusiasm for debt.  Lincoln University property studies professor Chris Eves said people were nervous, especially about their job security.  People's confidence would have more impact on the housing market than the actual cost of finance. He expected the market to be buoyed later this year by people looking for better returns on their investment than the banks were able to offer.  People with money in the bank were last year getting 8 per cent or 9 per cent interest on deposits. Those rates have dropped to around 4 per cent and were likely to fall further.  
