rofit fall  09:47am   Crusader quadruples Brazil iron resource  09:46am   09:30am   Newmont takes on Alkane's gold project  09:27am   BHP mulls Ravensthorpe closure: report  08:37am   Nomad managing director resigns  08:08am   Market opens higher, led by gold miners  A key inflation measure has fallen to the lowest level in more than three years, possibly paving the way for 1960s interest rates by next month.  The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge has fallen for three months in a row for the first time since the series began in 2002, sparking concerns that deflation could be a big issue this year.  The inflation measure fell by 0.2 per cent in December, following a 0.6 per cent fall in November, driven by falls in petrol and vegetable prices.  Annually, the inflation gauge measure grew by 2.2 per cent, the lowest rate of increase since May 2005, and substantially below the peak of 4.8 per cent in June 2008.  TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson said a moderation in inflationary pressures could make the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) more inclined to cut interest rates by 75 basis points in February.  This would take the cash rate to 3.5 per cent, a level last seen in early 1965.  'Any downside in these inflation results or to the domestic or global data could see a more aggressive rate reduction,' Mr Williamson said.  Mr Williamson said deflation would be a bigger issue than inflation in the first half of this year.  'The TD-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge confirms the transition from a high inflation environment, which was evident in the period up to mid-2008, to a position now where inflation is well contained and squarely within the range of the RBA,' he said.  'The momentum of prices suggests that deflation risks rather than concern about inflation could be more pronounced in the first half of 2009.'  The annual inflation gauge has fallen below the mid-point of the RBA's two to three per cent target for the first time since May 2005.  Falling petrol, fruit and vegetable prices pulled down the inflation gauge measure for December, offset by rising rents and holiday accommodation prices.  La Trobe University economics and finance professor Don Harding said consumer price index (CPI) inflation was likely to decline in the December quarter, but he said the federal government's $10.4 billion fiscal stimulus could revive broader price pressures.  'If these broader measures of price pressure do not moderate then the decline in headline inflation will be shortlived, presenting the RBA and the government with a diabolical policy challenge in 2009,' he said.  CPI data for the December quarter is due out next week, with the RBA's next board meeting to be held on February 3.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
