Vladimir Putin has defended the gradual devaluation of the ruble, which has slid some 30 percent since September. But some analysts have warned that the ruble could still fall further this year.  Comparisons have been made with 1998 when the ruble depreciated 71 percent against the dollar and up to 29 percent a day in August. The government has stressed that it will seek to avoid any sharp devaluations.  'We did all that gradually and carefully,' Putin told the Bloomberg news agency. 'We have consciously decided to spend gold and currency reserves, to give the possibility to participants in the economy, including citizens, to realize what is happening and make decisions.'  However, Ovanes Oganesian, an analyst from Renaissance Capital, feels that although the ruble now has a more realistic value, the government was too slow to react.  'Gradual devaluation was a sensible policy, but the CBR (Russian Central Bank) could have reacted much quicker to lower oil and commodity prices. Since August, the ruble has shown the same dynamics as the Brazilian real, which is freely traded and has no pegs,' Oganesian told The Moscow News.  The ruble has now depreciated to 34.68 against the dollar and 39.5 against the euro-dollar bi-currency basket and some think that it could depreciate below the trading band's outer limit of 41 against the basket.  'On our estimates, the ruble is near equilibrium at 41-45 rubles per basket,' said Elina Ribakova, chief economist at Citibank Moscow.  Although managing the devaluation has helped people adjust to lower commodity prices, a floating exchange rate could give the ruble a more realistic value.  'It would have been best if the CBR would stop supporting the ruble, then external shocks, such as lower oil prices, would not cause the CBR to interfere on currency markets and support the ruble,' Oganesian said.  However, Citibank warned that a floating exchange rate would not lead to equilibrium in the short term due to market expectations and the slow adjustment of real sector variables.  The main factor that is likely to affect the exchange rate is the oil price, which the government budget is now estimating at $41 a barrel in 2009.  'In our view, the upper band of 41 rubles per basket is set too low, as appreciation pressure is only likely to come from stronger oil prices,' said Ribakova.  Further depreciation of the ruble is likely to contribute to inflation in 2009, which Deputy PM and finance minister, Alexey Kudrin, has warned will be the biggest challenge for the economy.  Local prices will compete with imports, which have become comparatively more expensive, allowing domestic producers to raise prices.  'Technically it will be the job of antimonopoly committee to fight such price increases, by local producers, and it has the power to do so, but in reality such price hikes will happen,' said Oganesian.  This has led Kudrin to pessimistically predict stagflation for 2009, with GDP growth of -0.2 percent and inflation of around 15 percent, although Citibank thinks it could be worse.  'While falling growth will be... deflationary, CPI (Consumer Price Index) is unlikely to be below 15 percent. Our forecast is for CPI to be around 19 percent in 2009,' Ribakova said.  Kudrin, writing in Voprosy Ekonomiki (Questions of Economics), said that targeting inflation was the most important for the economy's long term stability and Natalia Orlova, chief economist at Alfabank, agreed.  'I absolutely agree that this (controlling inflation) is the main task of the government. Russia was previously running a consumption boom, but savings were very low. Today, if inflation accelerates, households will reduce savings to support their consumption standards. Instead of devaluing the ruble and fuelling inflation, the government has to stabilize price growth and the exchange rate,' she said.  Putin has presented a more optimistic picture for 2009, telling Bloomberg that he 'sees the light at the end of the tunnel,' and that he expects the economy to exhibit 'positive trends' this year or early 2010.  
