(Adds Dvorkovich quote, c.bank interventions)   By Gleb Bryanski and Andrei Ostroukh MOSCOW, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Russia's rouble slipped to a historic low on Thursday, sparking another confrontation between markets and the central bank as players pushed the currency towards the weaker edge of its trading corridor.  The bank last week took advantage of corporate tax deadlines that stoked temporary demand for roubles to try to end 2-1/2 months of gradual devaluation, setting limits for the currency at 26 to 41 roubles to the euro-dollar basket.  But its slide has since resumed and bankers say the central bank's resolve to stabilise the currency is likely to be tested. 'For now, everybody is playing to test the ... boundary of 41 roubles. The big question is whether or not it rests there,' said Viktor Kholoshnoi, chief currency dealer at Gazprombank.  Analysts expect Russia's economic slowdown to create severe social tensions in coming months and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's government has given high priority to avoiding a repeat of the rouble's 1998 collapse.  On Thursday, the rouble fell another 2.6 percent to 39.75 against the basket and 4.9 percent to 34.93 against the dollar. Dealers estimated the central bank, which has used a third of its reserves defending the rouble, spent around $3-4 billion during the day on countering the decline. 'It looks like the central bank is getting in the way, today at around 39.75,' said Denis Korshilov at Citibank.  Kremlin's top aide on economic matters, Arkady Dvorkovich, told Reuters in Davos the central bank is trying to stay out of the market as much as possible to allow the rouble to find an equilibrium level within its trading band.   The central bank has said it is prepared to defend the trading band's floor as long as the price for oil, Russia's main export commodity, does not fall to $30 a barrel. It said that if oil rises to $50 the rouble could strengthen.  Russia's Urals export blend of oil traded at $41.50 on Thursday. Giving oil price guidance for the rouble de-facto pegs it to Urals, which trades at a discount to main blends.  Speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Putin said the world needed to return to stable and predictable energy prices that reflected supply and demand rather than speculation.  When the crisis began Russia's top leaders first said there would be no devaluation but later altered their tune, saying there would be no sharp fluctuations.   Russians' earnings and savings have rapidly lost value against the dollar, and the media have cautiously begun to raise questions about policy, which may give ammunition to advocates of currency and capital controls. 'A transition from a mantra 'there will be no devaluation' to a mantra 'what did you want at such an oil price' required at least some explanation but there wasn't one,' wrote columnist Alexander Privalov in Expert magazine.  Dvorkovich said Russia was looking for new ways to keep dollars inside the country. Last year Russia offered commercial banks the option of parking foreign currency with the central bank to stop capital flight.  CREDIBILITY AT STAKE The end of major corporate tax payments has freed up speculators to try and test the currency boundaries. High volumes in the central bank repo auctions suggested banks were still holding onto their forex reserves.   Analysts are divided with some, like BNP Paribas 'It is disappointing to see that the central bank has thus far been unwilling or unable to take sufficient steps to cut off the supply of liquidity to bolster the credibility of its new currency regime,' said Rory MacFarquhar from Goldman Sachs   The central bank as well as traders closely watch exchange rates priced in internationally traded non-deliverable forward (NDF) contracts for the rouble, which for now show that devaluation expectations are receding. 'It looks like we are watching one of the last speculative attacks. Our opinion is based on a lower cost for the rouble position hedge through NDFs,' Bank of Moscow's analysts said in a research note. (Additional reporting by Guy Faulconbridge in Davos; Reporting by Andrei Ostroukh and Gleb Bryanski; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) 
