EVEN a rise in the inflation rate today will not stop the Reserve Bank slashing interest rates by as much as 1 per cent next week, economists say.  A growing number of economists are tipping a sharp cut to the official cash rate as the global economic outlook darkens.  They predict the rate cut will defy any lift in today's December quarter inflation reading.  The producer price index - which measures the costs of inputs to business - released yesterday, registered a surprise 1.3 per cent jump in the December quarter.  That was well above market expectations of a 0.4 per cent rise.  Analysts said the weaker Australian dollar had made some inputs more expensive and the PPI reading did not bode well for businesses, whose profits are already under pressure from the economic slowdown.  The expected interest rate cut would come despite a surprise lift in Australian business confidence in December, which was boosted by the Rudd Government's $10.4 billion stimulus package.  The National Australia Bank monthly business survey showed pessimists still outweighing optimists, although sentiment improved to minus 20 points in December from November's record low of minus 29.9.  NAB chief economist Alan Oster said it was likely the lift in business confidence from 1990 recession levels was temporary.  'The critical question is whether the December reading represents a turning point from overly pessimistic recent readings . . . or a temporary bounce that is unlikely to be sustained,' said Mr Oster.  'Unfortunately there is much in the survey to point to the latter outcome - or at least that is the way business is positioning themselves.'  Mr Oster, who last week joined the ranks of economists predicting at least a mild recession in Australia, yesterday said GDP growth for 2009 would go backwards by 0.25 per cent.  Economists are mixed on whether the headline consumer price index - the key measure of inflation - will today register a fall or slight rise in the December quarter.  JP Morgan is tipping a 0.2 per cent increase, because price rises in food, rent, holiday travel, utilities and financial services will have offset falls in the fuel price.  Other analysts expect the CPI to dip 0.4 per cent, with TD Securities predicting a 0.6 per cent fall.  JP Morgan economist Stephen Walters said yesterday that neither a rise in the CPI or PPI would set alarm bells off at the RBA.  'In the wake of another avalanche of gloomy news on the global economy, particularly the marked deterioration in growth in Australia's dominant export partners in Asia . . . we expect the RBA to deliver a 100-basis point rate cut next month,' he said.  Economists from RBC Capital Markets, the Commonwealth Bank and Citi are also seeking a bold 1 per cent cut to the official cash rate next week.  However, HSBC chief economist John Edwards said a 75-basis point cut was more likely, leaving the RBA some room to cut again later.  'I think at this point they want to just signal they're willing to go quite a lot (lower) but they're not going to keep doing huge cuts,' he said.  
