(adds comments on protectionism) ZURICH, Jan 27 (Reuters) - Private capital flows to emerging markets are set to drop by nearly two thirds in 2009 as the global economy makes its most extreme downturn since World War Two, the Institute of International Finance said on Tuesday.  Industrialised and emerging countries should tackle potential refinancing problems head on in the coming weeks and the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) resources to help emerging markets should be expanded, the global banking association said. 'The prospective 2009 declines in private capital flows raise major questions about the financing viability of a number of emerging market countries which are experiencing severe economic strains,' said William Rhodes, First Vice Chairman of the IIF's board, at a media conference in Zurich.  The IIF is an association of financial services firms with 400 members worldwide.  Emerging market leaders needed to be vigilant and the IMF should back up their efforts, said Rhodes, who also is Chief Executive Officer of Citibank . 'The IMF's resources need to be expanded and its approaches modified to provide financing to emerging markets that have been caught in a crisis not of their making,' Rhodes said. China and the gulf states were among the countries that should be called upon for the necessary funding, he said.  IIF managing director Charles Dallara urged industrialised countries not to fall for the temptation of protectionism, not only when it came to trade.  Governments' plans in the United States and Europe to support troubled banks also were bearing signs of protectionism. 'I think it could prove very short-sighted if authorities attached too much 'let's-keep-it-at-home' mentality to the capital and the credit,' he said. Governments should ensure that injections of capital and other support mechanisms were not intended to inhibit the flow of capital and credit across boarders, Dallara said.  The IIF expects private capital inflows to emerging markets to drop to $165 billion in 2009, down from $466 billion in 2008 and a record of $929 billion in 2007.  The institute forecast the global economy to shrink 1.1 percent in 2009 after a 2.0 percent expansion last year, slashing its December forecast of a 0.4 percent output decline.  The IIF expects output in the three largest major economies -- the United States, the euro zone and Japan -- to drop by 2.1 percent while emerging markets are expected to grow by 2.7 percent, only half the pace of 2008.  Growth in China is seen slowing to 6.5 percent, the IIF said. In Latin America, Mexico faces a recession and overall growth in the region will slow to below 1 percent. 'Recession will be more widespread across Emerging Europe and the region will be the weakest among emerging economies,' the IIF said. Many of the leading emerging economies were in much better shape than in previous crisis, but policymakers needed to take actions in time, Rhodes said.  The IIF said private sector borrowers face at least $100 billion of repayment obligations on their market-based borrowing that fall due in the first half of this year, of which they seem able to issue not much more than half. 'Policymakers in both mature and emerging markets would be well advised to address this refinancing problem head on in the weeks and months ahead,' said Philip Suttle, head of IIF economic research.  Emerging market borrowers faced difficulties in rolling over market-based debt under conditions where it is not just their own prospects that have deteriorated, but also those of their lenders, the IIF said.  In addition, they now faced the prospect of being 'crowded out' by the massive borrowing needs of G10 governments, it said.  The IIF expects emerging countries in Europe to see the sharpest decline in net private capital flows, dropping to $30 billion from $254 billion in 2008.  The global banking crisis continued to throttle bank lending to emerging markets, the IIF said, forecasting a net outflow of $61 billion in bank lending compared with a net inflow of $167 billion in 2008.  Borrowers from emerging Europe will repay a net of $27 billion. Russia alone is expected to repay $49 billion net, the IIF said. For emerging Asia, the IIF forecasts repayments to banks of $25 billion.  For the IIF's full report click on http://www.iif.com  (Reporting by Sven Egenter; Editing by Ruth Pitchford and Andy Bruce) 
