A KEY measure of annual inflation has fallen to a three and a half year low, igniting concerns about deflation in 2009.  The TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge for December fell by 0.2 per cent, following a 0.6 per cent fall in November.  The inflation gauge has now declined for three consecutive months for the first time since the series began in 2002, with falls in petrol, fruit and vegetable prices driving the latest monthly decline.  Annually, the inflation gauge measure grew by 2.2 per cent, the lowest rate of increase since May 2005, and substantially below the peak of 4.8 per cent in June 2008.  TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson said deflation, a situation in which prices fall overall, would be a bigger threat than inflation in 2009. 'The TD-MI inflation gauge confirms the transition from a high inflation environment, which was evident in the period up to mid-2008, to a position now where inflation is well contained and squarely within the range of the Reserve Bank of Australia,' he said. 'The momentum of prices suggests that deflation risks rather than concern about inflation could be more pronounced in the first half of 2009.' The annual inflation gauge has fallen below the mid-point of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) 2 to 3 per cent target for the first time since May 2005.  Mr Williamson said this meant the RBA would be likely to cut the official cash rate in February by 75 basis points to 3.5 per cent, the lowest level since early 1965. 'Any downside in these inflation results or to the domestic or global data could see a more aggressive rate reduction,' he said. Falling petrol, fruit and vegetable prices pulled down the inflation gauge measure for December.  These falls were offset by rising rents and holiday accommodation prices.  La Trobe University economics and finance professor Don Harding said based on recent inflation gauge measures, the consumer price index (CPI) for the December quarter would fall by 0.45 per cent.  Headline CPI rose by 1.2 per cent in the September quarter for an annual rate of 5 per cent.  CPI data for the December quarter is due out next week, with the RBA's next board meeting to be held on February 3.
