The value of personal, commercial and lease commitments fell in November, Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) data showed on Monday.  Lending for commercial purposes slumped 10.4 per cent in November, while personal financing was 1.8 per cent lower and lease finance was down three per cent for the month.  Financing for commercial purposes was down for the fifth month in the past six, and was 37.6 per cent lower year-on-year.  Commsec equities economist Savanth Sebastian said local firms and consumers were hesitant to increase their debt burden in a slowing economy. 'It is pretty clear that the global slowdown is having a significant impact on consumers, even on businesses borrowing,' Mr Sebastian said. 'The big concern is businesses, that have been the driver of the Australian economy, are starting to wane. 'It is likely business expansion and investment plans will continue to be cut back the longer this protracted slowdown is.' Mr Sebastian said lower interest rates and the rise in the first home owners' grant helped lift lending for house purchases by 1.4 per cent during November.  In October, the federal government doubled the first home owners' grant to $14,000 for established houses and to $21,000 for newly built homes.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut the cash rate by 0.75 percentage points to 5.25 per cent, following a combined 125 basis points easing in the two previous months. 'It was a good move by the government,' Mr Sebastian said. 'To have a long and sustained impact you may even see the government extending the first home buyers' grant in this sort of market. 'You need to instil as much confidence as you can.' Loans for cars in original terms slumped to a two-and-a-half year low.  Car sales continued to struggle, Mr Sebastian said. 'They are down 30 per cent on a year ago,' he said. 'You expect the car industry to languish in this sort of environment.' Mr Sebastian said that with businesses and consumers reluctant to borrow, the central bank would lower the cash rate from its current six-and-a-half year low 4.25 per cent on February 3.
