SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Australian economic activity will likely remain slow in 2009, but the heavily commodities dependent economy should avoid a recession, according to a monthly bulletin of economic trends.  The forecast for Australia to avoid recession comes despite a backdrop of rapidly deteriorating global growth and as Australia's largest export customers in Asia suffer a near collapse in growth.  Australia's economy likely grew 1.3% in the final quarter of 2008, and should grow 1.2% in the current quarter, before ticking higher to 1.3% and 1.7% in the third and fourth quarters of this year, according to the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research.  Despite soaring jobless rates across the world, Australian unemployment is forecast to hold reasonably steady, rising from a likely 4.4% in the current quarter, to 5.1% by year end. 'The unemployment rate is unlikely to be in the double digits as the fiscal stimulus packages and the easing in monetary policy will go some way towards supporting economic activity. Moreover, additional policy-supports are forthcoming in the form of yet another round of fiscal stimulus package,' Melbourne Institute Research Fellow Michael Chua said.  Although a formal package has yet to be announced, the center-left Labor government has been loudly proclaiming it remains ready to take further measures to backstop growth.  The government in December poured A$10.4 billion into the economy to shore up the housing and retail sectors, and has also committed billions into shoring up the securitization, auto lending and commercial property markets.  Posing downside risks to the Melbourne Institute forecast is the threat of rising protectionist pressures, and the temptation for governments to ring fence local industry.  Inflation is also set to ease further, dipping from an expected 4.1% in the first quarter to 3.1% by year end.  The cooler price pressures mean the Reserve Bank of Australia can cut by 50 basis points or 75 basis points at its February policy meeting next week, Chua said.  Traders have bet policy makers will ease by 100 basis points, to 3.25%.  Highlighting the so called 'two speed' nature of the Australian economy, weakening demand for commodities will hit the states of Queensland and Western Australia hardest, with unemployment there to rise to 4.4% and 3.5% respectively by September quarter 2009.  Employment in retail, services, and finance are amongst the hardest hit sectors.  -By   Enda Curran  , Dow Jones Newswires;  61-2-8272-4687; enda.curran@dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 01-29-091953ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
