THE biggest quarterly fall in inflation for more than a decade opens the way for another big interest rate cut to help kick-start the struggling economy, economists say.  Headline inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI), fell 0.3 per cent in the December quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said on Wednesday.  This was the biggest quarterly fall since the September quarter of 1997, and followed the previous quarter's 1.2 per cent rise.  On an annual basis, headline CPI grew by 3.7 per cent in December, well down from September's five per cent level but still above the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) two to three per cent target.  AMP Capital Investors chief economist Shane Oliver said the RBA was on track to slash interest rates by at least 75 basis points when it next met on February 3, as the world economy deteriorated. ''The fall in inflation, with a further decline in prospect, clears the way for additional rate cuts which are necessary given the worsening collapse in global growth and the likelihood that Australia has entered a recession,'' he said.  A 75 basis point rate cut would take the cash rate to 3.5 per cent, taking it to its lowest level since 1965, but some economists say the RBA could deliver a bigger one percentage point rate easing.  Citigroup managing director of economics Stephen Halmarick said inflationary pressures were receding at a faster pace than the RBA had forecast in late 2008. ''Today's CPI report clearly shows inflation has peaked and is falling quickly and by more than the RBA expected in its November statement on monetary policy,'' he said. ''With the economy expected to contract for several quarters and for growth to remain below potential through 2010, we forecast inflation to fall back to around the mid point of the two to three per cent target during the second half of 2010.''  Headline inflationary pressures eased in the final quarter of 2008 as petrol prices fell 18.2 per cent and pharmaceutical costs dropped 4.7 per cent.  However, food was two per cent dearer, with fruit prices rising eight per cent, ahead of utilities, which rose 1.8 per cent.  Underlying inflation, based on the average of the RBA's trimmed mean and weighted median measures, rose by 0.75 per cent in the December quarter. This compared with 1.25 per cent in the previous quarter.  Underlying annual inflation grew by 4.35 per cent, down from 4.7 per cent in the three months to September.  CommSec chief economist Craig James said the weaker inflation readings would allow the RBA to focus on stimulating the domestic economy during the coming year. ''The Reserve Bank has certainly put inflation on the backburner and the sole focus in the current environment is around insulating the domestic economy from the global economic slump,'' he said.  The RBA's trimmed mean measure of inflation, based on the average of the middle 70 per cent of price changes, rose 0.6 per cent in the December quarter, down from 1.2 per cent previously, for an annual increase of 4.2 per cent.  The weighted median reading increased by 0.9 per cent in the quarter, down from the September quarter's 1.3 per cent rise, to post yearly growth of 4.5 per cent.  
