  A record annual jump in a key measure of production costs is not expected to stop the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) from slashing interest rates to 1960s levels next month.  Producer prices rose by an annual 6.4 per cent in December, the biggest rise on record in the 10-year history of the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) data.  The figure surpassed expectations of a 5.4 per cent increase.  A weak Australian dollar drove a surge in import prices in late 2008 but economists say consumers will be spared dearer prices as retailers absorb increased costs, with shoppers worrying about worsening global conditions.  The producer price index at the final stage of production rose 1.3 per cent in the December quarter, the ABS said overnight.  The quarterly increase was much higher than market forecasts of 0.3 per cent, but the ABS data also showed sharp falls in manufacturing and construction costs as petrol prices dropped.  Import prices at the final stage of production surged by 16.4 per cent in the year to December, while domestic prices grew by a more modest 4.9 per cent.  In late 2008, the Australian dollar dived close to 60 US cents for the first time in five and a half years.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia senior economist Michael Workman said import prices fuelled the strong rise in overall producer prices.  However, consumers would escape being slugged with higher retail prices, he said. 'The inability to be able to pass these prices on is the biggest problem for a lot of the producers - and even importers - because consumer spending has been quite weak, he said. 'For a lot of groups it means their margins are going to be squeezed severely.' With economic gloom hanging over the world economy, debt futures markets expect the RBA to slash interest rates by 100 basis points, which would take the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent.  JPMorgan economist Helen Kevans said a high PPI print would not stop the central bank delivering a one percentage point rate cut at its next monthly board meeting on February 3. 'In the wake of another avalanche of gloomy news on the global economy, particularly the marked deterioration in growth in Australias dominant export partners in Asia, including Japan, China, Singapore and Korea, we expect the RBA to deliver a 100 basis point rate cut next month, she said.  Economists surveyed last week expect headline consumer price index (CPI) inflation data, due this morning, to show a fall of 0.4 per cent in the December quarter, for an annual increase of 3.6 per cent.  While the CPI and PPI numbers are not directly related, economists expect both measures of price pressures to ease as the economy slows.  CommSec chief economist Craig James said producer inflation would retreat sharply this year, especially in the formerly overheated building sector where prices fell for the first time in seven years. 'Business inflation can be expected to ease markedly over 2009 in line with the slowdown of the domestic economy, with phrases like cost control and price restraint the new mantra for corporate Australia, he said.
