The interest rate war heated up yesterday with Westpac Bank dropping its floating and fixed rates followed later by ASB Bank.  The Australian banks had until yesterday resisted dropping their floating rates and had lowered fixed rates instead trying to entice borrowers to lock themselves into those.  But yesterday two came to the party after Kiwibank sliced another 0.66 percentage points off its floating rate to be 6.99 per cent, the lowest in the market.  Borrowers rolling over loans or new borrowers are watching the rates tumble as banks jockey for their business.  Westpac sliced its floating (variable) rate by 0.66 percentage points to 7.45 per cent yesterday and later in the afternoon ASB knocked off 0.5 percentage points from its floating rate, now 7.45 per cent too.  Kiwibank has been dropping it floating rate to attract customers whose mortgages are coming up for renewal to leave the Australian banks.  The two small New Zealand banks, Kiwibank, and SBS Bank, have lower floating rates still than the Australians. BNZ's is holding its at 8.19 per cent, so far, as is ANZ's at 8.2 per cent. The floating rate is often the one most affected by the official cash rate (ocr) which has been falling steeply since July.  In the past there has been a margin of about 2 per cent to 2.5 per cent between the ocr and the floating rate.  This week Westpac forecast the ocr to fall to 2.5 per cent by late April, an indication of how bad the bank considers the recession will get.  Kiwibank chief executive Sam Knowles said this week the floating rate could fall further to between 5 and 6 per cent this year. 'This is why we believe the variable (floating) rate is the best rate for people to be on,' Knowles said. The ocr stands now at 5 per cent but the experts expect it to fall up by up to 1 percentage point at the end of January when the Reserve Bank reviews it which it does every six weeks.  The ocr is a benchmark for many other rates.  Westpac has also announced its second cut in a week to long term fixed rates.  It said for the first time since March 2003 all Westpac fixed mortgage interest rates were under 7.00 per cent.  Westpac will cut its four and five year fixed rates 0.11 percentage points to 6.99% per cent from Monday..  The announcement followed a further drop to Consensus Forecasts for economic growth among New Zealand's main trading partners (from 0.5 per cent to -0.1 per cent for 2009), the bank said.  Head of product management Brian Hayr said: 'With forecasters predicting a global downturn far worse than the early 1990s and wholesale rates falling in expectation of another cut to the official cash rate at the end of the month we are in a position to be able to pass through some relief to our customers.' Since October, Westpac had cut 3.46 percentage points from its variable rate. 'We expect interest rates to continue to be volatile as governments around the world take steps to counter the economic downturn and credit crunch,' Mr Hayr said. ASB Bank cut its two, three,four and five year fixed rates to 6.95 per cent, effective from today (Saturday).
