By David Milliken  Heavy pre-Christmas discounting and a cut in value-added tax are expected to have caused the sharpest fall in consumer price inflation since the last recession when December data is released on Tuesday.  Economists polled by Reuters expect the annual rate to drop to 2.7 percent on average from November's 4.1 percent, with prices falling 0.8 percent in December alone compared to a 0.1 percent drop the month before.  If the forecasts are right December will mark the biggest one-month slowdown in the annual rate of inflation since April 1992. It would also be the first fall in prices in December since records started in 1988. 'The run-up to Christmas was characterised by increasingly desperate retailers offering larger and larger discounts to tempt shoppers into stores. Price reductions of up to 70 percent were not uncommon,' said Matthew Sharratt, an economist at Bank of America. A 2.5 percentage point cut in value-added tax, a key plank of Prime Minister Gordon Brown's efforts to stimulate the economy, also took effect in December.  Firms had probably passed on about two thirds of this cut, taking 0.7 percentage points off the headline rate of CPI, JP Morgan economist Allan Monks forecast.  But inflation is not the only thing on financial markets' agenda on Tuesday as Bank of England Governor Mervyn King is scheduled to deliver his first major speech of the year in Nottingham, England.  King will detail plans announced by Brown on Monday for a 50 billion pound fund to buy high-quality, private-sector assets and further powers to buy assets to increase the money supply, paving the way for a policy of quantitative easing should rates fall close to zero.  Although still above the Bank's 2 percent target, Tuesday's inflation figures are more likely to make King worry about deflation as the accelerating economic slowdown has caused CPI to fall rapidly since it peaked at 5.2 percent as recently as September.  The fall in consumer inflation is likely to be exceeded by that of the broader retail price measure, which includes more housing costs and is used for price adjustments of many social benefits and commercial contracts.  Economists polled by Reuters expect RPI to fall to an annual rate of just 0.8 percent from 3.0 percent the month before. For the month of December alone, retail prices are forecast to have fallen 1.6 percent after a 0.8 percent drop in November -- the biggest decline since records began in 1947.
