JAKARTA, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Indonesia's central bank cut its key interest rate by 50 basis points to 8.75 percent on Wednesday, more than expected, to spur growth amid a global economic slowdown and as inflationary pressures eased.   Most analysts polled by Reuters before the rate move had expected the central bank, Bank Indonesia, to cut rates by 25 basis points to support growth, but did not expect aggressive easing as it may still be concerned about the rupiah currency.   After raising its key interest rate six times during 2008, by a total of 150 basis points, to 9.5 percent to curb inflationary pressures, the central bank surprisingly cut its rate to 9.25 percent in December to protect the economy from a severe global downturn.   COMMENTARY:   - JOANNA TAN, ECONOMIST, FORECAST PTE LTD, SINGAPORE   'Against the backdrop of receding price pressures and mounting growth woes, the central bank will find it hard not to deliver a rate cut as others embark on an aggressive monetary easing path.'   'Looking at the rupiah's reaction to rate cuts, BI will be less hesitant to cut rates now. We are looking at another 50 bps rate cut in this quarter as the economy continues to be battered by global headwinds.'   - CHRISTY TAN, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, BANK OF AMERICA, SINGAPORE   'BI seems confident that inflation will fall to 5-7 percent this year. The latest move has yet to undo the last tightening cycle which started early last year and from 8 percent.'   - ENRICO TANUWIDJAJA, CURRENCY STRATEGIST, OCBC BANK, SINGAPORE   'This might be done on the back of easing inflationary pressures in December and anchoring their views on lower expected inflation in 2009. The official central bank forecast stood at 5-7 percent range in 2009.'   'The rate cut could also mean that BI is signalling to the market that they want local commercial banks to follow suit with shorter lags and with greater magnitude in terms of their lending rates to shore up domestic business and lending activities.'   'We continue to see BI cutting more in February and March, potentially ending this year at the 7 percent mark for the overnight policy rate.'   - ALDIAN TALOPUTRA, ECONOMIST, MANDIRI SEKURITAS, JAKARTA 'There should be a good impact on economic growth because other interest rates will also be lower. Maybe loan interest rates will not be lowered significantly soon but they will come down in the future.'   - ERIC ALEXANDER SUGANDI, ECONOMIST, STANDARD CHARTERED BANK, JAKARTA   'The rate cut will provide a stimulus to the economy. But the key lies in the fiscal policy, as well. As Indonesia's economy is mostly driven by domestic consumption, now it's up to how the government sustains the purchasing power of households.'   - GUNDY CAHYADI, ECONOMIST, IDEAGLOBAL, SINGAPORE   'It may give more support to the rupiah because many central banks in the world have started cutting rates, and by cutting rates, BI can also help sentiment in the stock and bond market, so it will support rupiah.'   MARKET REACTION:   - The rupiah strengthened slightly to 10,750 at 0625 GMT, compared with 10,850 per dollar at 0541 GMT after the rate move.   - The Indonesia Composite Index was largely unchanged at 1.95 percent after the announcement.   LINKS:   - For more data on interest rates, Indonesia's central bank website is: http://www.bi.go.id.   BACKGROUND:   - The central bank cut its benchmark interest rate in December by 25 basis points, its first policy easing in a year, to protect the economy from a severe global downturn. It raised its key interest rate six times during 2008, by a total of 150 basis points, to 9.5 percent to curb inflationary pressures.   - Indonesia's annual inflation eased in December to 11.06 percent from 11.68 percent in November.   For more stories on Indonesia's economy, please double click on. For more stories on the latest news regarding Indonesia's central bank, please double click on. For stories on Indonesia's measures to support growth amid the global economic crisis, please double click on   (Additional reporting by Sonya Angraini, Dicky Kristanto, and Tyagita Silka)   (Reporting by Adriana Nina Kusuma; Editing by Sara Webb) Keywords: INDONESIA ECONOMY/RATES   (ga.arka@thomsonreuters.com; Reuters Messaging: ga.arka.reuters.com@reuters.net; +62 21 384 6364 ext 911)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
