(RTTNews) - India may witness a short period of deflation between March and June till demand revives in response to the stimulus packages, reported the Economic Times quoting Chief Statistician of India Pronab Sen.  Earlier, economists estimated that the country would face deflation only by July. However, with low commodity prices, a reduction in growth and a drop in demand along with the high prices that prevailed a year ago, India is likely to enter into a deflationary environment by March itself. Inflation is likely to be back into positive territory by June or July when monetary and fiscal measures encourage demand.  According to Pronab Sen, industrial inputs, which are captured in WPI, could show a negative inflation up to 3%. This will bring down input costs for many industries. He said that in an environment of speedy plunging input costs, sectors that have a high proportion of variable cost compared to fixed costs are likely to benefit.  Goldman Sachs economist Tushar Poddar also had recently said that those with high variable costs would have more flexibility in reducing their cost structures in the short term than those with higher fixed.  Crisil principal economist DK Joshi reportedly said that going forward we could expect softening of interest rates. Joshi estimates demand to pick up in the second half of the year and added that consumer durables, fast-moving consumer goods, refineries, steel, automobiles and fertilisers are some sectors that would benefit from a fall in commodity prices.  Citibank economist Rohini Malkani reportedly said that the impact of stimulus packages along with the depreciation in rupee would push up inflation towards the year-end. The economist further said that the average inflation for the fiscal would be around 9% while it would be 3% in the next fiscal.  However, the government paper primary dealer IDBI Gilts Managing Director N S Venkatesh said that the deflation is more of a statistical effect and would not last for two months. He said that the bond markets shrugged off estimates of deflation.
