SYDNEY, Jan 28 (Reuters) - Australian consumer prices fell by the most in a decade last quarter as a steep drop in petrol helped pull annual inflation down sharply, signalling scope for another aggressive cut in interest rates next week. Measures of underlying inflation favoured by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) rose by a shade less than expected in the fourth quarter. The central bank aims to keep inflation in a 2-3 percent band over the long run. --------------------------------------------------------------- KEY POINTS: - Q4 consumer price index -0.3 pct q/q (market forecast -0.4 pct) - Q4 consumer price index +3.7 pct y/y (forecast +3.6 pct) - Q4 trimmed mean +0.6 pct q/q (forecast +0.8 pct) - Q4 trimmed mean +4.2 pct y/y (forecast +4.4 pct) - Q4 weighted median +0.9 pct q/q (forecast +0.8 pct) - Q4 weighted median +4.5 pct y/y (forecast +4.4 pct) - Click on for a brief story. COMMENTARY: WARREN HOGAN, HEAD OF AUSTRALIAN ECONOMICS, ANZ 'It tells us that the inflation pulse in the economy is definitely coming off, but is still at the top of the target band or a little bit above it. It's certainly consistent with a weaker economy, but not an outright collapse into recession like we're seeing in the United States or the UK. The RBA may see inflation returning to its band a bit earlier, say the first half of 2010. But the problem is the currency is obviously very weak and we are yet to see the effect of that on domestic prices. If the RBA was tending to want to do another aggressive rate cut, then this number certainly doesn't stand in the way of that. We're comfortable with the view that they'll go 75 (basis points) next week.' BRIAN REDICAN, SENIOR ECONOMIST, MACQUARIE 'A very mixed report overall. Though the headline CPI dropped it was almost all down to petrol and there were plenty of rises elsewhere such as food, rents, housing and clothing. Inflation is clearly not falling anything like as fast as in the U.S. or Europe. There's no sign of the deflation other countries might be worried about. It certainly won't prevent the Reserve Bank from cutting rates next week, but the stubborness of inflation might argue for 75 basis points rather than 100.' JOHN EDWARDS, CHIEF ECONOMIST, HSBC 'The numbers are as expected, at least for the headline. It removes any conceivable impediment to the RBA cutting rates next week by 75 basis points. The most important point about the result is the trimmed mean CPI is up 0.6 percent, which is half of the increase for the previous quarter. It means in an annualised sense, underlying inflation is back within the RBA's band. Inflation is no longer a problem.' MARKET REACTION: - The Australian dollar held steady after the data. Bond and bill futures edged up as the data only reinforced expectations for another sizable cut in interest rates at the RBA's monthly policy meeting next week. LINKS: - The Reserve Bank of Australia's inflation measures can be found on: http://www.rba.gov.au/Statistics/measures_of_cpi.html - For all Australian news and data, 3000 Xtra users can click on BACKGROUND: - Analysts had expected a drop in the quarterly consumer price index (CPI) thanks largely to a slump in petrol prices, along with weakness in fruit and vegetable prices. - It would be a marked turnaround from the third quarter when annual CPI inflation hit a seven-year high, while underlying inflation was the fastest in 17 years. - The RBA's two statistical measures of underlying inflation aim to strip out the most extreme price moves, from whatever source, in a quarter to better determine the trend. - The central bank favours its own measures for setting interest rates. Analysts tend to average the two measures to arrive at a general level for underlying inflation. - The RBA has already anticipated a slowdown in inflation by cutting its key cash rate by 3 percentage points since September, taking it to a six-year low of 4.25 percent in an effort to cushion Australia from global recession. - The central bank holds its monthly policy meeting on Feb. 3 and releases its quarterly Statement on Monetary Policy on Feb. 6 (Reporting by Sydney newsroom) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/VIEW3 (wayne.cole@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1813; Reuters Messaging: wayne.cole.reuters.com@reuters.net ) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  
