First of all, Thanks to all the supporters of the recent READeo- it was a wonderful community event and certainly has got people reading!  Id like to thank in particular the following: Oberon Council, FRRR and Australia Post, Oberon Rotary, Combined Churches, Ashleys Studio of Hairdressing, Country Energy, Oberon Vet Clinic, Oberon Review, Morse Group, Col Bretts, Peters Caf, Oberon Bakehouse, Videos and Discs, Oberon Council Staff, Mawhoods, Jill Evans, Oberon Bakery, Barkers Butchery, Vinnies, Thriftylink, Sargents Rural Supplies, Cobweb, Kathy and Dietmar Sajowitz, Commonwealth Bank, Oberon Post Office, Belinda Lane, Spark Electrical, heavy lifter Tim, Lynne Causer, Foodworks, Highlands Meats, Oberon High and St Josephs secondary students, Friends and staff of the Library and especially teachers and students. We had wonderful responses to the competition and prizes are on the way to: Hannah Scott, Danielle Colley, Jessica Bentley and Amity Nicholl.  New in fiction this week is thriller Meltdown by Martin Baker. Set amongst the cut-throat world of financial high-flyers, this sophisticated and electrifying story revolves around money, power and obsession and what happens to a man working undercover when a woman goes missing.. Salvage by Jane F. Kotapish navigates subtle emotional undercurrents as it explores the unreliability of memory. At times darkly witty, the story follows a woman who, seeking solitude escapes the city to set up home in rural Virginia. Haunted by childhood memories she attempts reconnection with her mother. Danielle Steels Rogue explores what happens to a woman, amicably divorced who meets someone new just as her ex. Aka the Rogue wants her back. This is a story of choices and what opportunities can occur just when life seems to be falling apart.  Lastly Sea of Poppies by Amitar Ghosh surrounds a motley crew of sailors coolies and convicts thrown together on an old slaving ship. As their family ties are washed away they come to consider themselves ship-brothers. Set against the backdrop of the Opium Wars, an unlikely dynasty is born which will span continents, races and generations!  In non-fiction, we have Pitcairn Paradise Lost in which Kathy Marks uncovers the dark secrets of a South Pacific fantasy Island that came to light in recent years when police descended on the tiny colony to investigate disturbing reports of child abuse dating back generations. In Letters to Sam, Daniel Gottlieb chronicles his letters to his grandson on love, loss and the gifts of life. Poignantly, the author, a quadriplegic penned the series of letters to his baby grandson Sam, not expecting to live long enough to give him advice later in life. In a twist, at 14 months, Sam was diagnosed with autism and suddenly everything changed. Grandfather and Grandson were bound by something more.. Finally, Joe Bennett takes us on his travels through China finding out Where Underpants Come From. From how global trade works to the history of economic renaissance, This is a funny, wise and insightful book.  See you in the library.  
