i need to write or i'll pop. end of story!...or whateverbeing a grown up is sometimes hard. other times it's a blast. i get to go out when i want to and besides the awkwardness of living at home and sometimes forgetting to let them know i won't be home for dinner so they don't worry come 8,9,10 pm when i'm not home yet... yeah, still working on that. oops. a much-needed couple of people took me in like a stray puppy at the church, so i have a small network of friends now. it's made a difference like night and day...so even though one of those recent friends went off to the air force...and i'm going to really miss him!...it's good to have friends nearby again. i'm getting more involved in the church; i talked my friends into taking the same class as me and that's been going smashing.work's been going really well. i've been given a break from training some new associates, so i'm slowly recovering my low numbers. i just found out today that i'm the top enroller for all the temps there, so that was some really good news, especially since i've been really hard on myself for low performance in the last 8-9 work days. i got a really nice red bank of america shirt as a gift for being a good little enchalada. just kidding. someone in the office gave it to me for having good numbers, being willing to train, and going above and beyond...yeah, let's just say i was as red as the shirt and could only muster an embarassed, &amp;quot;thank you.&amp;quot; so yeah, hopefully all the good news on that front will mean permanent employment. that'd be nice because maybe then i'll be able to afford a little apartment of my own instead of living with mom and dad. it'd be nice to be able to support myself...car's still running. tires are bald, but i'm planning on taking care of that next weekend... hopefully it doesn't snow by then! it shouldn't, but it's been getting pretty cold up here! i'm missing florida and other warmer places besides here.. enough rittle rattle. pretty much that's it. haleigh's housing a Bible study that i'll be leading (scary thought) for young women post-grad to just getting into new careers type of age bracket. we're going to be studying the book captivating by staci eldridge and her husband. haleigh and i have been reading through it and so far it's been phenominal. friday is our class and somewhere in between i got roped into being in a thanksgiving drama at the church..so there's rehearsal for that...then there's caroling rehearsal sometime....then the pro-life walk...then ...you get the picture...but life is good because God is good. i'm busy as all get out, but i'm surrounded by awesome, God-fearing people much of the time, so i cannot complain.
