killi and i both have and enjoy webkinz (virtual pets) online. i feed mine all healthy foods, with the knowledge i have from the nutrition courses i've taken. which does not always jibe with what the little pinheads at webkinz have, ahem, let us call it researched. so what does killi send me for my webkinz to eat? the fattiest fried foods and sweets. hehe. ya think she's trying to tell me something?when she comes over, she heads right for the sodas and little debbies. i don't drink sodas. i don't need the calories OR the chemicals. and little debbies, well, maybe 2 a week, less usually. something like that. so i figure she's trying to hint that she wants me to stock up more on the sweets, not just the virtual kind.we have many kidlets in the neighborhood. they are hush's peeps. when they're out playing, hush will go to the front door and whimper until one of us goes out with him, so he can run around and play with them. and yes, i get knocks on the door from adorable little kids asking if hush can play. awwwww. i've gone from being killi and jason's mom to hush's mom. "hi, hush's mom. can hush come out and play? please?" identity crisis! will i ever ever be just me?!?no. silly question. who would WANT to be just me? not that i mind, but it's just a lot of work. and i've had the most practice. i certainly don't want anyone else to be me!pat has 7 hours between when he clocked out tonight to when he's supposed to clock in tomorrow. we're supposed to be spending this time hunting down the paperwork we need to turn in to the bank about the VA loan and the mortgage. um, i only gave pat 2 types of paperwork to take care of, and these are them. i take care of all the rest. and we're supposed to be looking at houses. oops! guess that will have to wait a little bit. i mean, the money for my down payment is safe in bank of america. less in wells fargo. and in the next few weeks i don't see the housing market getting any stranger than it is right now. so, breathe, and we'll get to it when we can.when he has a day like this, the best thing i can do for him is to make sure the house is clean and stay out of his way. he didn't even want dinner, he just fried up some eggs and spam. give him his fox news at 9 pm...he can watch hours upon hours of news each day.... and stay out of his way. that way he can grouse all he wants without feeling guilty. and if anything happened in my day, well, it can wait. he's scheduled to work 14 hour days until friday, when it's a short day, only 9 hours. then he goes to shoot, to qualify, on saturday. poor baby. makes me wish he got over time after 40 hours, instead of 50. yes, it's legal. sucks, but it's legal.today i learned not to take my walk immediately after my shower. i'm breathing hard by the time i get through my shower. for me, that's a lot of time standing up, doing stuff! i take 15 minute showers. and we have a stool by my sink where all my stuff is. but it takes a lot out of me. and THEN i decided to take my meander! what WAS i thinking? i hardly made it back. you'll be pleased to hear that i did. jason said my face had turned a rather interesting shade of green. but i made it back. and oh, yes, my friends, my back is telling me it's opinion on this entire venture. and it is not mincing words. ow.this is jason's month, halloween! i've had kids come to my door to try and find out what jason has planned for this year. one kid asked to take a peek into jason's workshop! hehe, as if i would! anticipation is half the fun. i bought a real costume this year. wanna see?well, i've nattered on long enough about nothing.
