Vibeka Mair talks to Jibrael Hagan, global development director and founder of C.A.R.E.A warehouse toilet and garden shed are temporarily holding computers for environmental charity C.A.R.E. while it tries to solve its cash flow problem.C.A.R.E, which stands for Collect And Recycle Ecologically, takes unused computers from UK schools and sends them to schools abroad.  It became a registered charity in 2007 and has already sent 400 computers to Ghana. C.A.R.E. has had wide interest in the Worthing press and even featured on the local BBC news website.Eleven-year-old Phoebe Hagan came up with idea after she took a trip to Ghana two years ago and noticed the lack of IT at her young relatives schools. On her return  to the UK, she promptly asked her teacher if her dad could send two unused computers in the IT department to Ghana. Her request inspired dad, Jibrael Hagan, to set up a charity.However, despite a good start, a cash flow problem means hundreds of donated IT equipment is sitting in the UK until more revenue streams are found. In fact, this donated equipment is the only income the charity has at the moment.Jibrael Hagan, the charitys global development director and founder, is understandably frustrated: We are at a hiatus because we do not have enough funding to send the equipment abroad. I have lots of emails from other African countries interested in the project, we have the computers, Hagans heroicsbut unfortunately we dont have the cash to send them.Hagan, who runs the charity from his home in Worthing, set it  up with an 8,000 loan from Barclays Bank, 17,000 of his own money and matched funding of 10,000 from his employer BOC Edwards. But this money ran out quickly after the charity sent the first IT dispatch to Ghana. Now, Hagan says, companies and banks are not willing to disperse their money as easily as a year ago, funds are tight and Hagan is considering other possible income streams.We now ask all UK schools to contribute 10 per machine that they donate to help us towards our costs, he says. And we also ask schools in Ghana to donate 30 per machine to cover our storage, shipping and overhead costs for all the equipment.But, the piles of keyboards, screens and processors cluttering Hagans shed look set to remain there for a couple more months, as the charity deals with its first costly mistake. Hagan explains: My company BOC Edwards box and ship the computers for the charity. Under my old chief executive Raj Rajagopal (now an adviser to Gordon Brown) the first shipment went off fine. But, under new management the paperwork for the second batch of computers was done incorrectly. This means the computers have been waiting at a port in Ghana for four months.Africas hot climate means computers brought over from the UK need to be in a controlled temperature to remain in working condition. The delay could mean the computers will need to be repaired or obsolete by the time the schools get them. Either way, it will cost the charity money.But hope comes in many forms, and when Hagan met minister for the third sector Phil Hope at a conference earlier this year, he offered advice on keeping the charity sustainable. Hope advised us to become a business in the community, says Hagan. We have developed this by taking computers from UK schools for 10, as well as offering environmental advice to pupils.Hope also said the charity should think about merging with another similar organisation to survive. However, its an idea that Hagan is not comfortable with.As well as providing computers  to schools in Africa, the charity wants to promote environmental awareness. It already offers advice to the UK schools it deals with and will only donate to schools in Africa who meet its environmental standards, which are checked by Ghanas government and environmental agency. It also wants to tackle the big problem in Ghana of the disposal of IT equipment to dumps. Thousands of these computers are burned each year by people hoping to make a profit from the copper to be won from the ashes.Hagan is determined to raise awareness about the danger of burning IT equipment through his charity and is wary of joining organisations that send computers to Africa without checking where they end up. We looked into joining with a UK charity called Digital Link, says Hagan. It works with companies like Barclays Bank, Bupa and Uniliver and also sends IT to Ghana. But the operation stops here. They hand it over to a Ghanaian and they dont know what happens over there, he complains.Vibeka MairSeptember 2008Send article to a friend
