LAKE FOREST, Ill., Oct. 23 /PRNewswire/ -- Green Courte Partners, LLC is pleased to announce the formation of a strategic partnership with Mark Scully to expand Green Courte's focus on the ownership, leasing and development of 'Main Street' retail/mixed-use properties in Colorado. Scully will provide regional oversight of Green Courte's existing projects in Steamboat Springs, Boulder and Ft. Collins, and will assist in identifying new investment opportunities throughout the state. Randy Rowe, the Chairman of Green Courte Partners, LLC, commented, 'We are excited to add Mark Scully to Green Courte's 'Main Street' retail/mixed-use team. Mark's blend of leasing, operating and development expertise uniquely qualifies him to make an immediate impact on our Colorado activities. Additionally, my history with Mark, which extends back 17 years to when we worked together at Equity Office Properties, provides me with a high level of confidence in Mark's talent, energy and effectiveness.' Mark was previously a Senior Vice President with Equity Office Properties Trust and Blackstone from 1991 to 2007. While at Equity Office, Mark led a team of 140 real estate professionals focused on all aspects of the ownership, operation, leasing and development of Equity's southeast portfolio consisting of over 40 properties totaling 8,600,000 square feet of real estate. While at Equity Office, Mark also led the firm's National Leasing team and new build-to-suit transactions including a new 254,000 square feet headquarters office building for Barclays Global Advisors in San Francisco, California and a new 145,000 square feet headquarters building for California State Automobile Association (CSAA) in Walnut Creek, California. Green Courte Partners, LLC is a Chicago-based private equity investment firm focused primarily on manufactured housing communities, in-fill/'Main Street' retail properties, and parking assets, but will invest in any real estate asset or real estate strategy that will generate attractive risk-adjusted returns over a longer-term holding period. In addition to acquiring individual real estate assets, Green Courte creates joint venture investments with strong operating partners, leveraging their market knowledge and operating platforms. For more information regarding Green Courte Partners, please visit the firm's website at http://www.GreenCourtePartners.com.
