  (0)  WHAT do councils do with our money? Until last week, its unlikely to have been an issue you gave much thought to. The news millions of pounds of taxpayers money British councils invested in crisis-hit Icelandic bank Landsbanki, had been frozen brought the issue into sharp focus. None of the councils in south Essex had money tied up in Landsbanki at the time, although in January Southend Council did withdraw 2million it had invested. So where does the invested cash come from? Where is our councils money stored? And is it safe from the ravages of the credit crunch? Martin Hone, Southends head of finance, said councils deposit money, usually millions of pounds, in various banks or building societies for anything between a day and a year. The cash can be the proceeds of selling assets like council houses. More usually, however, councils borrow cash for specific projects and then invest the money until it is needed. This means councils can get a return on the money before the cash is spent. He said: Some is money we have borrowed to do things like building the new swimming pool at Garon Park. Its money weve borrowed to pay contractors in the next few years, but it is earning interest in the meantime. It is also council tax and business rates money. From time to time we also put in capital receipts from selling buildings or land until we are ready to spend it on long-term investments. Mr Hone added councils need the return on investments to support budgets, but they must ensure taxpayers cash is deposited securely. He said: At the moment, we are coming down on the side of safety. We dont play the money markets, what we do is borrow money in advance of spending it on day-to-day things or on big projects. We can borrow money for up to 25 years and, having borrowed it, we lend it out for a little while. At the moment, we are keeping a very careful eye on it. Each year, we agree a list of all the institutions we can do business with. If a banks risk status is downgraded during the year, we can withdraw money straight away, though there might be a penalty premium. We havent had to do that yet, but we check several times a day on the people we have lent money out to. We make absolutely certain they remain top-rated in terms of risk. He said the councils withdrawal from Landsbanki was a normal transaction after the investment period had come to an end. During the financial year 2007-8, Southend Council had the vast bulk of its money, 122million, deposited with Barclays. A further 8million was with the Anglo-Irish Bank, based in the Republic of Ireland, 2million with the Bank of Scotland and 2million with Landsbanki. Savings in the Anglo-Irish Bank are now guaranteed by the Irish Government, while those in the Bank of Scotland are guaranteed by the British Government. Just under 22m was held in call accounts, where it can be withdrawn quickly if cash is suddenly or unexpected needed. Since the credit crunch kicked in, councils have actually benefited from being offered higher interest rates from banks. Local authorities are seen as a more reliable source of loans than other banks. Basildon Council has more than 5million in reserves. Phil Turner, councillor responsible for resources, said: We were aware of difficulties in the markets at the start of the financial year, and took a number of early steps to protect taxpayers money. We have attempted to minimise the risk to taxpayers by spreading our investments across a large number of banks and building societies. Mr Turner explained the council decided to invest only in highly-rated banks or asset-rich building societies and has stopped depositing money with overseas organisations. He said: We also limited the amount of money which can be invested in any one institution, and have ensured this cash can be released in as short a time as possible. Our treasury team are in daily contact with the councils financial advisers who can provide immediate warning of any changes in a banks credit. While it is impossible to eliminate all risk, we have taken swift and prudent action to minimise the councils exposure to any financial loss. As a result of these steps, we are fortunate not to have been hit by the Icelandic banking crisis which has affected other authorities. The leader of , Pam Challis, said: The council has very strict lending criteria and only invests with organisations which have high credit ratings. Castle Points investments are spread across six different organisations, with no more than 27 per cent in any one, for varying periods of up to 364 days. Much of this money is backed by a British or Irish Government guarantee and are deposited with the Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish Bank and the British Government Debt Management Office. The remaining investments are currently with the Bank of Scotland Treasury Services (part of Halifax Bank of Scotland or HBOS) and the Nationwide Building Society. She added the council operates a prudent investment strategy and closely monitors its finances to ensure their maximum security.  has 14.2m currently invested, with 6.3million in HBOS, 4million in the Alliance and Leicester, 3.3million in the Bank of Ireland and 700,000 with the Anglo-Irish Bank. The council has an approved lending list of banks and building societies it invests in, which also includes HSBC, Nationwide and Abbey National.
