* Large businesses, city contractors are major donors to the income tax campaign.Text SizeResidents of Westerville will decide whether Issue 54 passes, but the vast majority of financial contributions to the campaign came from businesses located inside and outside the city.Campaign finance reports, required if candidates or political action committees that raise or spend at least $1,000, released by the Franklin County Board of Elections on Friday, Oct. 24, show the Committee to Support Westerville had raised $68,372 by Oct. 22.The report was the third and final before the Nov. 4 general election.Treasurer Mike Townsley said the group was expecting to raise more and will continue fundraising efforts to pay for mailing costs and other miscellaneous expenses.'We have been continuing to contact past donors to assist us in the educational process,' he said. Businesses rather than individual residents have been solicited for campaign funds, he said, because the committee's campaign focus with residents has been providing them with educational materials to increase understanding of the complex ballot issue.Healthcare companies were the top two donors with Mount Carmel Health Services contributing $15,000 and Ohio Health at $10,000. United Healthcare Services donated $1,500, according to the elections filings.Other corporations making hefty donations included The Daimler Group, builders of new office buildings along Polaris Parkway, at $5,000, and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. at $4,000.'These are the types of companies that believe in Westerville and see first hand the need to maintain services,' Townsley said.Contractors who do business with the city also made numerous donations, according to the records. Contributing $3,000 to the campaign were the EMH&amp;amp;T engineer consulting firm and architecture companies Meacham and Apel and Michael Schusters Associates. Columbus Asphalt Paving contributed $2,500, architects Brandsetter Carroll $2,000, attorneys Baker Hostetler $1,000, and contracting consultants H.R. Gray $1,000.City employees in prominent positions making contributions in the last report included City Engineer Susan Banbury, Electric Division Manager Andy Boatright, Fire Battalion Chief John Bokros, Fire Chief Bernie Ingles, former City Manager Dave Lindimore, Risk and Procurement Administrator Adam Maxwell, Parks and Recreation Director Jody Stowers, Finance Director Jack Winkel and Service Director Frank Wiseman.Townsley said the contributions from these employees should influence voters because many are part of the one-third of residents that would pay higher taxes, if the levy passes, because they live and work in Westerville.Westerville CIty Council members voted unanimously to place the issue on the ballot this summer and members that opened their checkbooks to support the campaign since June 15 included Eric Busch, Kathy Cocuzzi and Craig Treneff. Townsley said other members gave earlier in the campaign.Besides issuing endorsements of Issue 54, each of the city's employee unions made monetary donations to the campaign. Locals from both the International Association of Fire Fighters and the United Steelworkers contributed $1,000 since June 15. Townsley said the Fraternal Order of Police made a previous donation.As of Oct. 24 expenditures for the Committee to Support Westerville totalled $54,093 and included $28,759 spent with Griffin Communications for campaign strategy services and fliers, $14,000 for resident surveys from Saperstein Associates, $4,261 for newspaper advertising, $3,942 for postage and shipping supplies, $1,966 for signs and banners, and $388 for hall rentals and catering, according to the records.As of Friday, Oct. 24 a balance of $14,280 remained, but Townsley said that figure is already depleted as the campaign mounts its final push before the Nov. 4 election.
