  Description:Three of the Four Independent Proxy Voting Advisory Firms Recommend That IRF Shareholders Vote FOR THE BOARDS INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NOMINEES andAGAINST ALL OF THE VISHAY BY-LAW PROPOSALSEL SEGUNDO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--International Rectifier Corporation (NYSE:IRF) said today that it has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and mailed to shareholders a letter highlighting the skepticism with which independent proxy advisory firms and investment analysts have viewed Vishays proposals in advance of its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on October 10, 2008.Richard J. Dahl, Chairman of the Board of International Rectifier said: We are very pleased by the strong support we have received from the independent research analyst community and from three leading independent proxy advisory services. This is further validation of IRFs strategic roadmap as the clearly superior alternative to Vishays ill-advised, speculative and highly conditional offer.The full text of the letter follows:VOTE THE WHITE PROXY CARD FOR IRF'S DIRECTORS AT THE 2007 ANNUAL MEETINGREJECT VISHAY'S HIGHLY CONDITIONAL AND WHOLLY INADEQUATE $23.00 OFFEROctober 6, 2008Dear Fellow Shareholder:Your vote at the 2007 Annual Meeting of IRF Shareholders to be held on October 10, 2008 is critical. As you know, International Rectifier (NYSE: IRF) received an unsolicited, non-binding offer from Vishay Intertechnology (NYSE:VSH) to acquire IRF for $23.00 in cash per share, and Vishay has commenced a highly-conditional tender offer at that price. Your Board of Directors has unanimously rejected the $23.00 offer as financially inadequate and not in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Vishays offer is subject to an extraordinary number of conditions, including the receipt of the proceeds of financing which it has yet to obtain and may never obtain in this turbulent credit market. These facts make your vote at the 2007 annual meeting a high risk vote given the potential disruption and distraction Vishays nominees might impose upon your Board of Directors as they potentially seek to put the interests of Vishay above those of IRF shareholders.THREE OF THE FOUR INDEPENDENT PROXY ADVISORY FIRMS RECOMMEND THAT IRF SHAREHOLDERS SUPPORT YOUR BOARD'S NOMINEES AND REJECT VISHAY'S NOMINEES AND ITS OTHER PROPOSALSOver the course of the past five days three major independent proxy advisory firms -- Glass Lewis &amp;amp; Co., PROXY Governance and Egan-Jones -- have recommended that IRF shareholders vote in favor of your Boards highly-qualified, independent nominees and reject Vishays nominees and its other proposals.In making its recommendation, Glass Lewis &amp;amp; Co, stated: Vishay has failed to convince us that IRF directors have not acted in the best interests of shareholders, nor has the Dissident established that its nominees would contribute necessary expertise to the IRF board. In our opinion, the IRF board has worked to proactively address the Companys accounting investigation and restatement and, as noted, has worked to revamp the executive Leadership of the Company over the last yearIn making its recommendation, PROXY Governance, stated: We believe the incumbent board has demonstrated strong commitment to the interests of all shareholders in pursuing the investigation into financial and internal control issues, driving a corporate restatement, and replacing a complicit management team with both new personnel and strengthened oversight. Because the Vishay tender offer gives shareholders a more direct mechanism to express interest in a buyout, while the dissident slate, lacking any alternative strategic vision, would not clearly strengthen the companys chances for recovery as a stand-alone entity, we believe shareholders would be better served by electing the management slate of directors...In making its recommendation, Egan-Jones, stated: We are unpersuaded that the dissidents' nominees would bring objectivity to the Board, as it appears that Vishay has mounted the current contest with the objective of pursuing an acquisition of the Company. 2) With respect to Vishay's efforts to date to pursue a transaction with the Company, we believe that the Company's Board has acted consistent with shareholder interests'While the RiskMetrics Group did not come out in support the Companys slate of directors, it made the following statement: In contrast to the usual proxy contests where activist dissident seeking representation on the target board to influence the company strategy, operations, or capital structure, here the dissident is a hostile acquirer that has a clear intention to acquire the Company. As such, this analysis will focus on Vishays tender offer...Three out of four independent proxy firms overwhelmingly support your Boards position. We are disappointed by the approach taken by RiskMetrics as our shareholders will have the opportunity to opine on the adequacy of the Vishay Offer independently from our Annual Meeting. We especially disagree with the RiskMetrics contention that this is a low risk vote particularly given the clear potential for disruption and diversion that is likely to result from the activities of directors with a mission. We do not believe that it is in the best interest of our shareholders to encourage the appointment of directors to our board whose sponsor, Vishay (i) has publicly criticized our strategic plan, (ii) has asserted recission of a $300 million business transaction, and (iii) is solely focused on acquiring International Rectifier.SIGNIFICANT SUPPORT FOR IRF'S POSITION FROM INDEPENDENT RESEARCH ANALYSTS Since the publication of our strategic roadmap on September 15th, the research analysts who cover IRF have published updated notes and views on the Companys outlook. These reports continue to support the conclusion that IRF shareholders should reject the election of the dissident nominees and its opportunistic, ill-advised tender offer. We have also set out below a selection of the commentary from these recently published reports:  Stephens Inc. (September 30, 2008): We came away from the meeting feeling better about IRFs retention of engineering talent, which we view as being extremely critical. All of our conversations with large shareholders have indicated that Vishay has a virtually nonexistent chance of being successful with the bid in its current form. The shareholders we spoke with believe that the $23 offer price undervalues IRFs business...  FBR Capital Markets (September 30, 2008): After reviewing the investor presentations and proxy solicitations from IR and Vishay, we believe there is little chance that IR will be sold to Vishay because Vishays $23 offer price is too low, in our view Even if Vishay were to raise its offer again, we still do not think a deal would get done... We maintain our Outperform rating.  Barclays Capital (September 29, 2008): Though International Rectifier is unlikely to accept Vishays recent acquisition proposal, we think the stock has limited downside given that earnings are near a cyclical bottom, a large cash balance, and a low valuation.  McAdams Wright Ragen (October 2, 2008): 'Overall, we came away increasingly confident in managements ability to execute on its long-term strategy and realign IRF to deliver solid growth and profitability over the next few years. ...we maintain that Vishay is being opportunistic with its existing $23 offer and that it does not fairly value IRF. We believe that an independent IRF should deliver significantly better long-term shareholder value.'WHEN IS AN OFFER NOT AN OFFER? In reviewing Vishays tender offer documents, we are struck by the extraordinary conditionality of the so-called offer. Vishay not only has yet to secure any financing commitments to support the offer, but they also have included so many subjective and immaterial conditions that the offer effectively becomes an option for Vishay to choose not to proceed at its own discretion. We would encourage you to look at the offer document itself with its endless repetitions of conditions dependent on Vishays sole discretion, particularly without any content as to how that discretion would be exercised.  We have already highlighted for you the lack of financing commitments for Vishays offer.Vishay itself acknowledges in its Offer to Purchase the significant risk of obtaining the financing necessary to complete the transaction, particularly in light of the current crisis in the U.S. financial services industry. It has been six weeks since Vishay made its initial proposal public on August 15, 2008 yet, according to Vishays own public statements, it is still working with Banc of America and Morgan Stanley to secure commitments. No definitive arrangements have been announced and no progress report has been furnished. An offer without financing is hardly an offer worthy of serious consideration.  Even if Vishay eventually confirms it has received commitments to fund the transaction, you should be sure to read the fine print " to what conditions will the funding be subjected? How certain will that financing be? Will it be dependent upon the same or similar subjective conditions as Vishays offer?YOUR REJECTION OF VISHAY'S 'CONFLICTED' NOMINEES IS CRITICAL This election is not just another short slate election where dissident nominees willshake up a board.  Support for the Vishay nominees would be an endorsement of a mediocre and untimely offer -- which may never close given the conditionality -- and could significantly undermine the Boards negotiating leverage with Vishay or with any third party if the Board determined to sell the Company.  Indeed, if a sale process were to be commenced, how would likely bidders for the Company respond if nominees from one of the bidders -- Vishay -- were on the Board and a part of the process? How could other bidders be sure of impartiality given the $50,000 payment Vishay has made to each of its nominees?  To be sure, now is not...
