SMALL BUSINESS GUIDES Starting up Business finance Marketing Franchising Guides in fullRECLAIM BUSINESS CHARGESThis is Money reveals how you can claim back money on your business bank account. See how it's doneSMALL BUSINESS SERVICES Buy or sell up Invoice finance Business insurance Business mortgages Services in fullHOW TO MAKE A MILLIONWant to hit the big time? Find out how top entrepreneurs made it.  Millionaire interviewsSo when Mark, 31, opened his Fig 1 ethical gift shop in Totterdown, south Bristol, a year ago, he was surprised to find how much the first year of trading had to teach him.'I was realistic about the pressures of running a business, but I had no idea just how important cash flow management was,' he says. 'It affects your day-to-day operation, especially when you're establishing new relationships with suppliers and planning to buy stock.'The credit crunch also brings new concerns for beginner bosses alongside the perennial challenges of organising finances, handling red tape and marketing the business.However, a downturn rarely leads to a decline in the number of start-ups, says Stephen Alambritis of the Federation of Small Businesses - partly because higher levels of redundancy see more people going it alone.Website getsetforbusiness.com conducted a poll of 200 business owners who had established their companies in the past six months and found that many had been inspired to work for themselves by the fear of redundancy.Alambritis says: 'Start-up rates always stay fairly level, between 450,000 and 500,000 each year, but when times are hard there is a change in the type of new business.More tend to be lifestyle businesses based on an interest or hobby and many owners will remain sole traders.'Fig 1 employs three regulars and turned over more than 100,000 in its first 12 months. It is getting repeat custom and growing sales through its website and shop, but the credit crunch has had an effect.Mark says: 'We use a number of European suppliers because we sell ethically sourced goods and prefer that a product hasn't had far to travel. The falling pound against the euro hits our margins and delivery costs are going up.'Allan Griffiths, commercial banking director for Lloyds TSB, believes there are controls that a new business owner should always master, especially in a downturn.'Managing the balance sheet and cash flow is vital,' he says. 'Sole traders should think about when and if they need to employ - perhaps test the water with a temporary member of staff at first.Be your own boss 1. Read our guides to starting a business 2. Try our tools for raising money for your business idea 3. Browse for a business to buy 4. Talk to others about business ideas'Be realistic about your start-up costs. Do you need premises or could you start out from home? For a shrewd businessman, tough times offer great opportunities.'Alambritis says: 'Firms that start up during tough times often have a better survival rate. Owners have a more realistic approach to business growth and are typically in it for the long haul.' . .For more tips on beating the downturn, visit www.businesslink.gov.uk/creditcrunchWANT TO KNOW MORE?READER COMMENTS (0)No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts?About reader commentsAdd your comment:make text area biggerYou have  characters left.Town or regionEmail: Your email address will not be publishedRemember meEmail me a link to these comments.
