 Consolidator Oval has managed to secure refinancing to help fuel its growth.The news came as Oval announced its first two acquisitions since the summer: Powell Insurance Brokers based in Liverpool and Williams Insurance Brokers based in Wrexham, North Wales. A source close to the broker this morning confirmed that it had secured refinancing at favourable terms with Lloyds TSB and Barclays. It is understood the deal means it now has a warchest of over 100m for new deals. The first of these deals mark Oval's first acquisition in Wales, and strengthens its position in the North west. Powell has a team of 40 people with turnover of 3.4m and GWP of 16m. The company has been established for over 25 years, with a strong focus on mid-corporate and corporate clients. With specialisms in construction, poultry and food &amp;amp; beverage, the acquisition adds strong expertise to the Oval group (Oval). Managing director, Eliot Powell, will continue to run the Oval office in Liverpool. Williams Insurance Brokers is a local family-owned company established for over 35 years, offering commercial insurance products to a wide range of business sectors including transport, motor trade, food and retail with a core business focus in the construction and engineering sector. It has GWP of 4m and a team of 10 staff. Company director, Sandra Humphreys, will continue to run the Oval office in Wrexham. Mr Powell commented "We are very pleased with the decision to join Oval and see the two companies as having very closely aligned values. This will enable us to deliver the same high level of service to our clients, and give us the strength and resources of a larger company". Ms Humphreys added; "We are delighted to be a part of Oval's first step into North Wales. I am truly excited at becoming part of the Oval group and believe that it will result in real benefits for our clients in the form of security and an even wider range of services and expertise". Jeff Herdman, group managing director of Oval concluded: "Both Powell and Williams are highly respected brokerages, having developed strong, long-standing relationships with their clients. This made both companies a natural choice to bring into the group. We are very pleased to have both teams join Oval."
