Previous of Companies Next Prudential Royal Bank Of Scotland Group I had to remind myself of that fact at the beginning of last week when the details of Britains bank recapitalisation plan were thrashed out with three of the countrys biggest lenders. Once the Treasurys cash is invested, our biggest economic driver will suddenly look a lot like Beijings, with its quasi-state-ownership and strings attached to dividend payouts and strict lending commitments. Which is why Stephen Hesters assertion that there will be no sacred cows in his review of the operations at Royal Bank of Scotland (or the Nationalised Westminster Bank) may be flawed in at least one important respect. Hester does not even formally take up the chief executives job until the middle of next month, so he is unlikely to be particularly prescriptive about the banks broad direction for some time to come. But lets, for the sake of argument, say that he decides that he wants to relocate the banks headquarters to London. After letting go many of the bankers who have been employed in building up its wholesale (ugly word, these days) business, there might well be enough room for his head office staff in RBSs existing space south of the border. To be clear, the idea hasnt even crossed Hesters mind, and Ive no reason to believe that it is likely to. If it does, the Government should be wary of using its shareholding as the basis for interfering. In a world apparently short of capable banking chief executives, it cannot afford to curtail Hesters operational independence. But governments do interfere; it is their nature. Thats why I cannot help thinking that John Varleys audacious effort to keep Barclays detached from the Exchequers clutches by raising capital privately is if it comes off the only way to help maintain Britains status as a global banking leader. RBS Must have sceptics on board One of RBSs other challenges will be to prove to its largest shareholder, HM Treasury, that it has the balance right in the boardroom, wherever it is headquartered. Already, there is some dissent about the prospective choice of John McFarlane, one of the banks new crop of non-executives, as chairman. Sir Philip Hampton, who as we reported in these pages has been the choice of some investors all along, may well be more reluctant to take the job now that his paymasters will reside in Whitehall. Officially, we are told that there will be a formal process run by City headhunters. Whoever ends up occupying the seat, they will be hard-pressed to do an inferior job to his or her two immediate predecessors. It has been a disgrace that Sir Fred Goodwin faced such limited checks and balances during his tenure alongside Sir George Matthewson and Sir Tom McKillop. Matthewson was a brilliant banker but was content to allow the RBS boardroom to be populated by the Scottish mafia. McKillop arrived without the requisite banking experience or the stomach for a fight, were it necessary (as it proved), with Goodwin. It is less than a year since Goodwins name appeared on an approved list of potential candidates to replace Chuck Prince at the helm of Citigroup, a story which it apparently suited McKillop to allow to circulate, even as it became clear that RBS was in danger of paying over the odds for ABN Amro. Dont rock the boat too much or we might lose him, was the tacit message to shareholders. Chairmen of major public companies should never be allowed to employ such supine arguments against the replacement of their chief executives. Each time that RBS has wheeled out the message that Goodwin was the only man who could oversee the integration of ABN, the City has become angrier. Well, as it turned out, not angry enough. McKillop consistently neglected his responsibility to properly plan executive succession at RBS. Neither he nor Goodwin are responsible for the bigger picture of the banking crisis which engulfed RBS, but their reluctance to act swiftly in the face of looming disaster has meant that their professional epitaphs now look unnecessarily ugly. A prudent time to dip in the market Mark Tucker, the chief executive of Prudential, would dearly love to be piling into his companys stock at the moment. On Friday, the shares closed at 270p, down more than 9 per cent on the day and more than 63 per cent off their peak of the past year. Tucker doesnt have the choice of dipping into his wallet though, since the Pru is in closed period ahead of this Tuesdays trading update. Last week, the shares tanked by nearly 30 per cent. Much of that was driven by the fear endemic in these markets that in every corner of the financial world is lurking a dark secret. In the Prus case, that skeleton in the closet has variously been rumoured to be a rights issue designed to shore up the balance sheet (Prudential and rights issues are not happy bedfellows, remember), fears about its capital surplus and rumours about its current trading performance. Im willing to bet that most of this is nonsense. If I bought shares (I dont, because it inevitably compromises the independence of business journalists), Id be following Tuckers instinct and reaching into my own rather more modest wallet. Analysts at Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods who follow the stock have a target price of 885p on the stock. Prudential does face challenges. A prolonged stock market slump would be a severe test of its capital reserves, while changes to the way that insurance companies report earnings (known as market-consistent embedded value) are likely to adversely affect the companys profits. But as we report on our front-page today, Prudential is indeed considering raising new capital, but only because it is in expansion mode as it considers making an offer for some of the Asian businesses of the troubled insurance group AIG. Such plans would most likely be pursued by bringing in a big new strategic investor; after all, the concept of a rights issue in equity markets as febrile (and depressed) as todays would not be for the faint-hearted, even if one does have a purportedly solid story to tell. And the Pru is under no pressure to sell businesses, particularly not at prices that would not bring a rare smile to the faces of his investors, to fund the purchase of others. Any sensible investor with cash to burn (Warren Buffett would spring to mind if he wasnt already so well-invested in the insurance business) would be looking at the Pru at this price. And even if Tucker doesnt commit to any kind of fundraising to pursue the AIG assets, this weeks numbers from the Pru should reassure the market. I expect new business sales figures to be solid, exposure to Lehman Brothers, Fannie Mae and the other nasties out there to be minimal, and the Prus capital surplus to be well in excess of recent analysts estimates. I havent seen a surefire buy like this for a long time. 
