Barclaycard has revealed the new logo that will be part of the company's new virtual identity which will be introduced across all Barclaycards products, services and operations around the world over the next 12 months. It is a break from the logos used by Barclaycard during the last four decades, which had been designed to be seen on the traditional plastic card. Antony Jenkins, Barclaycards CEO, said: 'Barclaycard is leading a revolution which will bring people and businesses together to allow payments to be made in the easiest and most convenient way possible. Our new identity expresses where we see the future, freeing the chip on the credit card from the constraints of the plastic around it, making the way people pay for things simpler.' Rhidian Taylor, Barclaycards head of brand management, added: 'Our current logo and look have worked well for us as a  company, but they do not reflect the global payments company we have become. We needed to create a modern and distinctive look which signals where we are going as opposed to where we have been.' The new identity has been developed in conjunction with consultancy The Brand Union and has been the subject of extensive research with consumers in the UK, US, Germany, Spain, India and the UAE. The new symbol depicts a world that is calm and confident on the outside, whilst warm and vibrant on the inside. In creating a symbol that is separated from the brand name, the new logo works better online and on some emerging payment tools such as mobile phones. Customers will start to see the new identity being introduced gradually across Barclaycards products and businesses from October. Credit cards and stationery will be replaced in the normal course of events or as existing stock runs out to avoid extra expense. As credit cards last for up to three years, some will not see replacements with the new logo until 2011. About Barclaycard Barclaycard, part of Barclays Global and Retail Commercial Banking division, is a leading global payments business which understands the needs of both purchasers and sellers. It enables retailers and merchants to accept cards, helps customers make payments through card, contactless and mobile applications as well as extending credit to consumers. The company is one of the pioneers of new forms of payments and is at the forefront of developing viable contactless and mobile payment schemes for today and cutting edge forms of payment for the future. It also issues credit and charge cards to corporate customers and the UK Government. Barclaycard partners with a wide range of organisations across the globe to offer their customers or members payment options and credit. In addition to the UK, Barclaycard operates in the United States, Europe, Africa and the Middle and Far East. For further media information contact: Andrew Bond Barclaycard Press Office 1234 Pavilion Drive Northampton NN4 7SG 01604 251229 www.barclaycard.co.uk
