ANZ BANK REPORTS $86 MILLION PROFIT IN PACIFICNew branches, 170 new employees demonstrate commitment SUVA, Fiji (Fiji Times, Oct. 30, 2008) - The Australia New Zealand Banking Group has recorded an annual profit of AU$133 (FJ$86) million for its Pacific business for the year ended September 2008.ANZ chief executive officer Pacific Craig Sims said, "This is a good result based on the underlying strength of a number of Pacific economies and market share gains in Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands and Timor Leste. "We have continued to invest in our Pacific business over the past 12 months. This includes the addition of 170 staff, two new branches and 20 ATMs to enhance our service and make banking even more convenient for our local customers. "This year's result provides a foundation for ANZ to continue to invest in the Pacific to deliver on the growth strategy we announced this week. Financial markets around the world have experienced unprecedented turbulence of the past few months and no part of the world is immune. However, we are confident that our business is in a strong position." ANZ's balance sheet remains strong, with a strong capital position and significantly increased liquidity over the past year, Mr. Sims said in a statement. "We see good growth opportunities across the region, particularly in those countries with high levels of natural resources and tourism, as well as good prospects in the retail and corporate markets." Sims said the new Pacific strategy would create an even greater level of customer focus by creating key regional leadership roles within the region to bring decision-making closer to the customer. "Our business will be reorganized around four sub-regions of strategic focus coupled with the creation of key industry specialist leadership positions to help drive growth in sectors such as tourism, resources and financial institutions," Sims said. Fiji Times Online: . Copyright  2008 Fiji Times Online. All Rights Reserved Go back to Pacific Islands Report:  or .
