THE global financial crisis took the attention of most Senators on Wednesday, October.8. Nineteen members of the legislators in the upper chamber led by Senator Anthony George Manzo (PDP Taraba North) had tabled a motion before their colleagues calling attention to the rampaging financial crisis rocking the major financial hubs of the world. In a motion titled Global Credit Crisis and its Impact on Nigeria, sponsored by Senator Manzo and 18 others, the Senators noted that the situation around the world has been so scary that banks have stopped lending. They stated that the implication is that Nigerian Banks which have easy access to credit from the International Banks will now find it difficult if not impossible to benefit from such facility. The motion further urged the Federal Government to pay up certified debts owed local contractors and pensioners as a way reducing the credit crunch. The Senators also resolved to invite the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof. Chukwumah Soludo, the Minister of finance, Dr. Shamshudeen Usman, the Chief Economic Adviser to the President, Dr. Tanimu Yakubu and the Minister of National Planning, Senator Sanusi Daggash to brief the Senate on Nigerias preparedness for the global meltdown. Many Senators who contributed to the debate on the motion introduced several dimensions, which exposed the vulnerability of policies and actions seen as sacrosanct by government agencies and the CBN in the past. In many of their contributions, Senators directly and indirectly questioned the rationale behind the banking consolidation exercise embarked by the CBN in 2005. When the policy was introduced, the CBN touted it as one without alternative. The bank said that its insistence on banks raising their capital base to N25 billion will ensure that Nigeria has mega banks which can compete globally. The Bank also insisted that the local banks would have more funds to commit to the real sector, the productive segment of the Nations economy. The advantages as listed by the CBN were limitless. But three years into the consolidation, forced through by the Soludo-led CBN and backed by the government of President Olusegun Obasanjo, not much has happened in terms of lending to the productive sector by the banks. Indeed, what has been observed is that the banks have cleverly killed the initiative that compelled them to set aside a portion of their profit before tax for the benefits of the small scale industries. Rather than go into lending that could facilitate industrial growth, the Nigerian big banks midwifed by Soludo have engrossed themselves being major participants in the promotion of sales of imported items, vehicle acquisition and stuff like that. Senator Annie Okonkwo, who hit the nail on the head while contributing to the motion, told his colleagues that the banking consolidation has not brought benefits to the nation. He said what has been noticed is that banks now go about declaring profits that are even higher than their capital and wondered where the profits are coming from. Several Senators who contributed to the motion called on the Federal Government to immediately take pro-active measures to ensure the financial crisis is averted. One thing is however constant in the debate, question marks have been placed on the banking consolidation exercise promoted with much vigour by the Soludo CBN. Though there were complaints that the consolidation exercise forced by the CBN in 2005 was not backed by law, even a whimper by the Senate then was resisted by the government which coerced the 84 banks in existence to merge that resulted in the emergence of 25 banks. Thirteen of the existing banks were declared as failed banks, notwithstanding the fact that they were still in operation at the clearing house by then. They were forced to fold up, while their workers were thrown into the employment market. It was the belief of Soludo and the Obasanjo government then that no form of assistance to the financial sector was worth the effort, as the business men should be left to the vagaries of government policies. Here years later, it has become clear that the wisdom in the consolidation exercise embarked upon by Nigeria was short on the side of wisdom. The world has seen its banks and the financial sector in crises and instead of leaving the managers and the workers to their fate, the United States of America, Britain and the Asians authorities are putting in measures to ensure safety of the private companies. In the USA alone, more than 150, 000 jobs were said to have been lost in the first one week of the financial meltdown, prompting the President George Bush administration to propose a $700 billion bail-out option, described as the biggest since the global recession. In the case of the consolidation embarked upon by Nigeria, the vigour and refusal of the government to listen to alternative views prompted suggestions that the move was partly fuelled by political and other considerations, rather than solely economic. The government had bluntly refused a bail-out option for the 13 banks that did not meet the consolidation target and went ahead to liquidate them. But a segment of the market had said then that no country of the world had embarked on major restructuring exercises without enabling laws especially as the government also refused the alternative suggestion by the then Senate of categorization of banks. The disquiet in some of the consolidated banks recently has further shown that the nation is not close to Eldorado. There has been some confusion in Wema Bank recently just as the Spring Bank/Bank PHP acquisition offer is still causing ripples. There were claims then also that the field was not level for all players as some banks including Bank of the North and SGBN got N80 billion loans from the CBN shortly before the consolidation exercise was flagged off. The loans were later written off by the apex bank. But the SGBN recently got a court ruling which further raised questions on the insistence of the CBN on consolidation. The bank, which was in full operation during the consolidation exercise, has since regained its full status. Financial experts had claimed that it would not be proper to describe the banks that failed to meet the recapitalization schedule of the government as failed banks as they were still in operation as at the time they were made to stop by government order. Looking at the CBN action vis-a- vis the unfolding global situation, it can be said that the prognosis of the Soludo-led CBN were inappropriately directed and there is a big lesson for the Nigerian government and the CBN to learn from the US and Britain. Interestingly, Soludo himself is fast becoming an apostle of change, as he has not insisted that this government should adopt the same pill he advanced to the Obasanjo government in solving the global financial riddle. The bank has also supported the plan to inject stabilization funds to the troubled local stock market in recent times. That attitude will still raise the question, what went wrong in 2005? If bail-out is okay in 2008, why was it an anathema three years ago? The CBN should be in a position to explain the policy reversals and its own support for the globally adopted bail-out option in 2008. The Chairman of Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions, Senator Nkechi Nwaogu said on the Senate floor on Wednesday that the much touted consolidated banks were already facing difficulties in many areas. That going to justify the claim that Soludos forced consolidation has come more of a cosmetic than the real balm. A banking expert said that the CBN went for revolution instead of evolution and that it overstated the benefits of enforced policies, which the reality in the market is now justifying.Senator Nkechi Nwaogu had said:They have problems in the management of depositors funds. We dont have to wait until the banks begin to crumble. There must be a clear separation between the functions of the CBN and the policies that are dished out to the banking sector. The activities of banks are now left to the forces of demand and supply. But we have not grown to that stage where this has to be so. There must be regulation. And the Acts establishing CBN, NDIC, and other Banking institutions must be reviewed to make way for more vigorous supervision. It can therefore be said that the forced closure of those banks that failed to meet the recapitalization schedule has done more of injustice to the staffers of the liquidated companies, their owners and the Nigerian economy at large. The United States of America, Norway, the Asian economies and the United Kingdom have all been hit one way or the other and they are proffering solutions in different ways. But in none of the countries are the banking sector left to sort out its mess in the face of the growing financial meltdown. President George Bush and his compatriots in the pilot seat of the government of the United States, where the downturn was first noticeable immediately pushed the bailout option asking the House of Representatives and the US Senate to approve a $70 billion bailout option for the financial sector. After the initial hiccups to the plan in the House of Representatives, the bill sailed through and on Friday October 3, President George Bush signed the bail-out bill into law. The plan empowers the Treasury Department to spend as much as $700 billion to buy bad mortgage related securities and also provide an additional $110 billion in tax breaks and incentives. On October 7, British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown signaled the application of 50 billion pounds to rescue the crumbling Britains High street Banks. The Treasury is expected to buy stakes in the Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, LloydsTSB and Hallifax Bank of Scotland. The Daily Mail had reported that though the government was not presenting the intervention as a panicky measure, it was apparent that the stress in th...
