 Ready Rental Property announces rental solution for overseas investment home owners and the appointment of Brian Burnett as Head of Sales and Marketing.  Malaga, Spain (PRWEB) October 16, 2008 -- Ready Rental Property is pleased to announce the appointment of Brian Burnett as Head of Sales and Marketing.  Brian brings substantial experience in financial services and real estate to Ready Rental Property, having formerly held senior management positions with Barclays Bank in the UK, Bank of Boston, Fleet Bank and SunTrust Bank in the USA, and more recently, overseeing operations of several Spanish offices of German luxury real estate company Engel &amp;amp; Voelkers.  'The plan is to further enhance and expand the marketing, promotion and service available to clients for their properties to an even wider audience. The impact on overseas home owners who cannot afford to sell in the current financial climate mean that the need for efficient and strategic rental marketing is paramount' said Burnett.  Brian continued: 'Regardless of economic conditions, people will always find time and money to take a holiday each year. Our packages allow overseas property owners the ability to tap into this market in a way which was not possible before through major wholesale holiday suppliers, as a result both sides benefit. The owners earn more rental income and holiday makers are able to stay in accommodation which meets their needs and suits their lifestyles accordingly.'  Ready Rental Property offers an overseas property rental solution for people wishing to rent their property to both the long and short term markets. By forming and utilizing relationships usually only seen within the travel industry, Ready Rental Property is able to offer to the public a service that was traditionally only available to the hotel trade.  By ensuring that quality properties are listed and industry standards are met, Ready Rental Property are seeing a rapid rise in the number of holiday bookings and property listings within its' core areas of business in Spain, Cyprus and Portugal which is expected to grow further given the current world financial situation.
