Mainly fed by the revenues of oil production, with oil prices at $150 per barrel and gross profit exceeding $100 per barrel on a production of roughly 86 million barrels a day, the sky no longer appeared to be the limit, but on the contrary, a realistic goal for Sovereign Wealth Funds (SWFs). The SWFs were the hot topic of this years' 2008 World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland. Their high-profile entrance onto the global finance stage through acquisitions in Citigroup, Merrill Lynch, UBS, Morgan Stanley and Barclays, to name just a few, elevated security concerns in the developed world and raised eyebrows at the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The sudden outburst of the subprime crisis, however, pushed them out of world news. With input from a number of recipient countries, the European Union, the OECD and the World Bank, SWFs from around the world have come together to form the International Working Group on Sovereign Wealth Funds (IWG), and this group has just approved the 'Generally Accepted Principles and Practices' (GAPP) or in short the 'Santiago Principles.' The GAPP is a voluntary set of principles and practices that the members of the IWG strive to support and either have implemented or aspire to implement.The IWG appeared to be extremely diverse. Some SWFs have been around for decades, others are newly conceived. Whilst the total size of all SWFs is placed at around $2-3 trillion, some SWFs are very big -- Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, estimated at $875 billion -- and others are relatively modest -- the Mauritania National Fund for Hydrocarbon Reserves, estimated at $0.2 billion. The SWFs' objectives varied from fiscal stabilization funds, savings funds, reserve investment corporations, development funds, and pension reserve funds without explicit pension liabilities. Some had already well-established investment policies and governance, where others were still in an embryonic phase. Many will have been surprised to find such a varied selection of participants around the table. Their common feature is that as institutional investors, they have the ability to take a long-term view in their investments. They can ride out complete business cycles. In this sense, they will be extremely beneficial for the world economy, particularly during periods of financial turmoil or macro-economic stress that we are currently experiencing.The present oil price being again at an acceptable level, their income stream has normalized, and investment projections can become clearer now. The SWF lost tens of billions of dollars in the friendly -- but negatively perceived -- capital injections into the contaminated, conventional financial institutions. They will put more emphasis on the real economy. It is therefore a priority, both for Turkish public authorities and certainly for the Turkish private sector, to lobby intensely SWFs that match their criteria.The Santiago Principles aim to provide SWFs with a solid and transparent framework, sound governance and accountability, financial statements that comply with international standards and clearly defined professional and ethical standards. The SWFs will become partners to trust for the future.In 2007, the WEF still considered the economic 'hard landing' of China, an oil price shock, the US current-account deficit and a possible fiscal crisis in the US all more likely to hit the world economy than the fall of asset prices, which was reported to be less of a risk: 'those for which our understanding is currently too diffuse and the uncertainties too large [are] considered core risks.'** While in Davos the WEF was more concerned about SWFs, the WEF 2008 Global Risk Report showed a little more concern for simple-asset price readjustment: 'House and other asset prices collapse in the US, United Kingdom and Europe, significantly reducing consumer spending [will] create a recession.'*** The massive destruction of wealth caused by financial institutions through the impact of financial derivatives and reckless securitization was not mentioned.Five years after billionaire investor Warren Buffett called financial derivatives a 'time bomb' and 'financial weapons of mass destruction,' and when the market had seen the subprime crisis developing since at least 2005, that stance was surprising. In their favor, we can quote Alan Greenspan -- the guru of the good days -- who when speaking at the US Congress said, 'Those of us who have looked to the self-interest of lending institutions to protect shareholder's equity, myself especially, are in a state of shocked disbelief,' and at least admits to have been 'partially' wrong to resist regulation of at least some securities. The world is bearing the consequences now. The WEF will visit stanbul from Oct. 30-Nov. 1.*Paul Wouters is a consultant at BENER, paul.wouters@bener.com.tr.**(World Economic Forum, Global Risks 2007, p.6)***(World Economic Forum, Global Risks 2008, p.20)
