Nine days after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., more than 300 business executives and their spouses attended a Toronto bash to unveil the new Porsche 911. While attendance remained high, this year's attendees were unusually press-shy. Few wanted their picture taken at the event. 'These people have so much money [the financial crisis] doesn't matter, but when times are tough they want to appear less ostentatious,' said one participant. The new maxim is: . As governments around the world prop up banks with bailout packages, Main Street is lashing out at what it considers Wall Street excesses. This was underscored last week by the verbal lashing U.S. Rep. Henry Waxman gave to former Lehman CEO Richard Fuld Jr., who made millions in pay packages and bonuses and has amassed a large art collection and a luxurious beachfront home. 'You get to keep $480-million. I ask you this question: Is this fair?' asked Mr. Waxman of the deposed executive.The next day, Congress grilled two AIG executives for greenlighting a luxury retreat for insurance agents after it was announced the government would give AIG an US$85-billion bailout package.SensitivityLuxury may not yet be a dirty word, but in this climate how do you show off your mechanical precision watch or have your picture taken for the society pages decked in diamonds? 'Wealthy people can't be in your face with luxury,' says Milton Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute in New York. He adds: 'Who wants to be the focus of attention on greedy spending in a tremendous crisis? People have to be sensitive or it will be suicidal.' This is not the first time the financial community has been criticized for its excesses. Hollywood director Oliver Stone pilloried corporate raiders in his 1987 film Wall Street. More recently, some of the wealthy founders of U.S. private-equity firms have been lampooned for their rapacious spending habits in a series of 'War on Greed' cartoons. Stephen Schwarzman, co-founder of the Blackstone Group, became an easy target by amassing a collection of multi-million-dollar trophy homes and by throwing himself a lavish US$5-million birthday party in New York last year. While only three weeks have passed since the financial tsunami hit, there are signs that the well-heeled are reining themselves in. Sotheby's sale of works by British artist Damien Hirst sold above expectations on Sept. 15, but the auction house's sale of Chinese works in Hong Kong last week missed its $141.7-million estimate.While the number of high-end wheels parked in the Royal Bank Plaza lot on Bay Street have not diminished, sales for new Porsches certainly have. In Canada, Porsche sales dropped 37.5% for the month of September and one online site has 147 listings for used models in the Toronto area alone. Restaurateurs are bracing for the worst. Fewer takers for the 1996 Harlan EstateThe owner of Bay Street haunts such as Jump Cafe &amp;amp; Bar has not seen a drop in reservations yet, but is expecting fewer takers for the 1996 vintage of Harlan Estate, a Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon worth $1,300, the most expensive wine on their list. 'When business is flying high that's when people buy the $500 bottle of wine,' says Peter Oliver, co-founder of Oliver &amp;amp; Bonacini Restaurants. Event planners are not cutting functions, only the fat, says Sebastien Centner, director of Toronto-based Eatertainment Special Events. 'A lot of luxury-goods makers are anticipating a tough year,' says Mr. Centner. He says some clients are trimming items such as the late-night stand of goodies that follows dinner. While Mr. Centner predicts the $50 breakfasts with celebrity chefs will become a thing of the past, people are still forging ahead with marketing and holiday parties.Holt Renfrew is not planning to cut back marketing or events and is forging ahead with plans to open its new Calgary store. Last Tuesday, it held a lavish party of 100 people to celebrate its 30-year relationship with luxury brand Louis Vuitton. The store's one concession: More conservative planning. 'We are planning to take a more prudent approach given the challenge and unpredictability,' says Caryn Lerner, president and chief executive of Holt Renfrew. 'We will be looking for really special items that stand out... and looking to make sure we have a broad assortment and are touching entry-level price-points,' she adds. Avoid Holts, banker tells wifeConsumers say they are tightening their purse strings. 'I've told my wife not to spend at Holts,' says one investment banker who says he's also reconsidering his spring break vacation plans. His sentiments were echoed by several high-end shoppers visiting Holt Renfrew's flagship store on Bloor. 'I'm trying to save more and spend less on things that aren't necessary, less on shoes, clothing and dinners,' says Candice Pascoe, a Toronto-based recruiter. 'I'm only here today because it's my one-year anniversary.' Luxury will not go away, it will just morph into something more in tune with society,' says Mr. Pedraza of the Luxury Institute. 'People won't stop spending, they'll just consume discreetly,' he adds. kmazurkewich@nationalpost.com
