With Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressing willingness to work with them again, the Left parties on Sunday asked him to reconsider his economic policies saying had their pressure not worked on the UPA, the Indian economy would have been "ruined" by now due to the global financial crisis. "It was our pressure that prevented the government from going in from a full capital account convertibility and enact laws to open up insurance and banking sectors. Had it happened we would have been ruined today," CPI(M) Politburo member Sitaram Yechuri said. CPI secretary D Raja said it was due to the Left opposition that the government could not proceed with full Rupee convertibility or put in pension funds into the stock market. Both the leaders were asked to comment on Singh's statement that he hoped to find ways and means to work with Left and secular parties, even though he disagreed with them on economic issues. Maintaining that the same thing applied for the nuclear deal, Yechuri said, "if the concern for secularism is so sincere then all this should have been thought before rushing into surrender to the US." Yechuri alleged that the Prime Minister had said in 2006 that his government plans to go for complete liberalization and full capital account convertibility. "Had pension funds been put into the stock market, crores of employees would have suffered. If insurance sector would have been opened up, the AIG's (US company) collapse would have hit us badly. If foreign banks were allowed to take up 74% equity, Indian banks would have folded up," he said. He referred to another Bill to remove the 10 per cent cap on voting rights of foreign companies which have bought stakes in Indian firms. This too, Yechuri said, was opposed by the Left. "We were accused of being Keynesian fundamentalists. The PM used these words. But our contention is that it is better to be Keynesian fundamentalists than being termed as fiscal fundamentalists," Yechuri said. Commenting on the issue Raja said, "the PM should introspect the economic policies and the reforms process which his government is still pursuing. This is important because economics is politics." The "same PM had once said that the Left pressure was forcing him to behave like a 'bonded slave'. We differ on this issue", he said. "We not only need a secular plank but also economic development with equitable and social justice," Raja said. -
