Google's growth rate continued to slow in the third quarter, but the company appeared to be weather the economic downturn better than analysts expected as it reported a 26 percent jump in net income to $1.35 billion, or $4.24 a share, from $1.07 billion in the third quarter of 2007.The company said its revenue grew 31 percent to $5.54 billion, up from $4.23 billion a year earlier. Google's net revenue, which excludes commissions paid to advertising partners, rose to $4.04 billion, in-line with the $4.05 billion that analysts expected. The company beat Wall Street's profit expectations. Excluding the cost of stock options and other items, Google's income was, or $4.92 per-share, higher than the $4.79 a share forecast by analysts.The company, which does not provide financial guidance to Wall Street, also said the rate at which users clicked on its ads grew 18 percent from a year earlier. It had grown at 19 percent in the previous quarter. 'We had a good third quarter with strong traffic and revenue growth across all of our major geographies thanks to the underlying strength of our core search and ads business,' Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said in a news release. 'While we are realistic about the poor state of the global economy, we will continue to manage Google for the long term, driving improvements to search and ads, while also investing in future growth areas such as enterprise, mobile, and display.' While Google is the largest seller of online ads, its results are not necessarily indicative of the overall health of the Internet advertising business. Google relies primarily on search ads, the fastest growing segment of the market. Analysts believe that search advertising, which marketers use to lure people to their Web sites, is the portion of the ad market that is likely to be most resilient during a recession. Ahead of Google's report, several companies that sell services and tools to search marketers said that they had seen little evidence of a slowdown. 'We are not seeing any weakness in our business,' said Christopher Lien, the chief executive of Marin Software, whose technology helps marketers manage search advertising campaigns.Still some analysts cut their revenue and profit expectations for Google in recent weeks, amid signs that the slowing economy would affect advertising budgets both online and offline. And investors have also signaled that they believe that Google will not be immune to a recession. Google's shares have lost more than half their value since they peaked in November at $747.24. 'Investors are somewhat frustrated,' said Douglas Anmuth, an analyst with Barclays Capital. Anmuth noted that while Google's 31 rate of growth may be the envy of many companies, it represents a marked slowdown from previous years. Google grew at 56 percent in 2007 and 73 percent in 2006. With even slower growth expected, Google may have to rein in expenses, he said. 'It is the classic story of a company maturing and needing to better manage a large organization,' Anmuth added. On Thursday, Google quietly named David Rosenblatt, the former chief executive of DoubleClick, president of global display advertising, a new position. Google bought DoubleClick last year for $3.1 billion in an effort to quickly expand its fledgling display advertising business.Google also gave additional responsibilities to two senior sales executives Tim Armstrong and Nikesh Arora. Armstrong, previously president of advertising and commerce in North America, became president, the Americas. Arora, previously president, Europe Middle East and Africa, and vice president of Google U.K., became a senior vice president of Google.
