Contact Information Iain Bruce Media Strategist Bigmouthmedia (44)1315554848 externaloptimisation@bigmouthmedia.com Bigmouthmedia has sounded a cautious welcome to the news that Google is set to make a dramatic u-turn tomorrow when it lifts its ban on paid search advertising for gambling websites in the UK. The decision, which overturns the search giant's policy of refusing to carry AdWords advertisements for gambling operations such as online bingo and casino sites, is expected to presage an online gold rush as bidders hurry to tap into a potentially lucrative new sales vertical. In addition to opening up a new keywords bidding war, the move could also have a substantial impact on Yahoo. The search engine has until now profited from the PPC revenue from gambling advertisers barred from using Google, but with the field now open stands to lose a considerable chunk of its turnover. 'This is another sudden change that has taken most of the sector by surprise. It will certainly lead to a big switch in the way that advertisers and agencies manage search engine optimisation campaigns for gambling sector clients and opens up a potentially lucrative new vertical for the industry," said Lyndsay Menzies, Managing Director of bigmouthmedia UK. She continued, 'While many will welcome the addition of a new and highly competitive advertising platform for gambling advertisers, it remains to be seen what impact the move will have on other services. Competition is good for business, and it would be a great shame if this were to further weaken Yahoo's hold on the market." When it first introduced the ban 16 months ago, Google was heavily criticised by gaming and gambling companies for not providing them with evidence that its users wanted the ban. The company, which claims that the change has been under review for some time, says that it consulted the Gambling Commission prior to changing its policy. Notes to Editor: About bigmouthmedia Founded in 1997, bigmouthmedia is Europe's largest independent digital marketing agency. With a team of over 200 staff located across 13 offices in 10 countries on 3 continents, the company maximises exposure for major brands online through a variety of fully integrated digital marketing channels: SEO, PPC, Online Media Planning, Affiliate marketing, Social Networking, Brand Monitoring, Online PR and Web Analytics. Bigmouthmedia also provides up to date daily  to ensure clients are fully informed and aware of all industry developments. Leading the digital marketing strategies of a third of the UK's most trusted brands, bigmouthmedia services over 300 big-brand customers globally including: Hilton, British Airways, Tesco, Aer Lingus, Barclays, Conrad International, Dorling Kindersley, Early Learning Centre, Fasthosts, Jumeirah, Canon, Samsung, Starbucks, Top Man, Debenhams, Which?, Euler Hermes and Wall Street Institute. bigmouthmedia PR contact Iain Bruce Media Strategist bigmouthmedia 51 Timberbush Edinburgh EH6 6QH (44) 131 555 4848 www.bigmouthmedia.com 
