LONDON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--RSA(R) Conference, the world's leading information security conference group, opens today with a keynote speech from Art Coviello, Executive Vice President, EMC and President, RSA, The Security Division of EMC - plus a keynote panel on Online Privacy and Behavioral Targeting. The panel is moderated by Chris Kuner, Partner and Head of International Privacy and Information Management at Hunton &amp;amp; Williams and includes panelists such as European Data Protection Supervisor Peter Hustinx, Ari Schwartz, CEO at the Center for Democracy and Technology, Michael Spadea, Privacy Counsel at Barclays LLC and Paul Goad, MD at NebuAd Ltd.RSA Conference Europe, which runs until Wednesday 29th October at ExCeL London, UK, brings together international industry experts, senior executives, security professionals, developers, architects and vendors - and will deliver its educational content through keynotes, special interest groups, and more than 70 sessions across 10 tracks. The Conference also features an exhibition featuring new product innovations from over 40 world-class service and technology vendors, from Fortune 500s to start-ups.This year's event features keynotes by top government officials Richard Thomas, the UK Information Commissioner, and Shadow Security Minister Baroness Neville-Jones on Wednesday 29th October, and industry thought leaders such as Security Technologist and BT Counterpane CTO, Bruce Schneier, Dr. Herbert H. Thompson, Chief Security Strategist at People Security, and Ken Silva, CTO of VeriSign who are keynoting on Tuesday 28th October.RSA Conference Europe will also see topical panels and sessions under the Hot Topics Track, such as Olympic Games Information Security: The Ultimate Challenge, a session presented by Marc Llanes, Information Security Manager at Atos Origin and Vladan Todorovic, Information Security Manager at the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games. Other sessions unveiled in this track are Cyber Jihad - The Virtual Hand of Terrorism?; As Fraud Heats Up, Will E-Commerce Melt Down? and The Next Generation of Warfare - Cyberterrorism. 'This year's Conference continues the tradition of getting right to the heart of the issues that really matter in information security, and will be as topical as ever, featuring thought-provoking panel sessions and speakers and participants on the front line of every aspect of information security' said Linda Lynch, RSA Conference Europe Manager. 'In the current economic slowdown, information security takes an even more important place in the minds of CIOs, where using resources more efficiently and effectively is evermore crucial. RSA Conference Europe plays an integral role in EMEA in keeping security professionals connected and educated.' This year's RSA Conference theme is built around Alan Turing - the British cryptographer, mathematician, logician, philosopher and biologist - and will celebrate his legacy and contribution towards digital computers today. Experts and historians agree that Turing had a deeper understanding of the vast potential of computer science than anyone in his era, and is often considered the father of modern computer science.It's not too late to register and attend RSA Conference Europe, and full details about registration are available here: http://www.rsaconference.com/2008/Europe/Registration.aspxTo find out more information regarding the RSA Conference Europe 2008 agenda, please visit the event website at: http://www.rsaconference.com/2008/Europe/Agenda.aspxAbout RSA Conference 2008RSA Conference is helping drive the security agenda worldwide with annual events in the U.S., Europe and Japan. Throughout its history, RSA Conference has consistently attracted the world's best and brightest in the field, creating opportunities for Conference attendees to learn about IT security's most important issues through first-hand interactions with peers, luminaries and both emerging and established companies. As the IT security field continues to grow in importance and influence, RSA Conference plays an integral role in keeping security professionals across the globe connected and educated. For more information and Conference dates, visit www.rsaconference.comRSA and the RSA Conference logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of RSA Security Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other marks are trademarks of their respective companies.
