/PRZOOM - Newswire/ - Interactive Session for Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit Executives with Former CROs of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Barclays Global Investors and US Bancorp Piper Jaffray will provide valuable information for immediate planning and action.Redwood Shores, CA, United States, 10/17/2008  MetricStream Brings Together Chief Risk Officers (CROs) to Discuss Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Strategies to Weather the Current Financial CrisisMetricStream, Inc., the market leader in enterprise-wide Governance, Risk, Compliance (GRC) and Quality Management solutions, today announced that it is hosting an online panel discussion on Risk Management in Banking and Financial Services on Tuesday, October 21, 2008 at 11:00am Pacific (2:00pm Eastern).This panel discussion will outline an integrated framework for deploying effective governance and risk management processes that address changing business needs and enhance the ability of banks and financial institutions to react rapidly to adverse events. Best practices in organizational structures, roles and responsibilities and risk scenario planning and analysis will also be discussed. The specific discussion topics will include:1. Good governance practices;2. Effective risk management;3. Internal audit and compliance mandates;4. Loss management;5. Scenario planning;6. Causal analysis of the crisis;7. Remedial action;8. Organization structures;9. Technology as an enabler.This roundtable will feature speakers with rich background in banking and financial services. Featured panelists include:1.Dr. Robert M. Mark, CEO of Black Diamond Risk and Former Chief Risk Officer at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce2.S. Jean Hinrichs, Former Chief Risk Officer at Barclays Global Investors (BGI)3.David R. Koenig, Founding Partner of Ductilibility and Past Chair of the Board of Directors of the Professional Risk Managers International Association (PRMIA)4.Charles Goldenberg, Vice President of GRC solutions at MetricStream, Retired Partner, Deloitte and Former Partner, KPMGThe moderator for this discussion will be Gaurav Kapoor, CFO and General Manager, MetricStream and a Former Business Head at Citigroup. Speakers will briefly share their views on the key lessons from the current financial turmoil. This will be followed by an open Q&amp;amp;A session to address questions from attendees.This is an excellent opportunity for risk, compliance and internal audit executives to hear from and interact with leaders in their fields. The perspectives and observations from each panelist will provide insightful ideas on what risk management and governance strategies should be leveraged for decision-making in these turbulent times, said Shellye Archambeau, CEO of MetricStream.About MetricStreamMetricStream is a market leader in Enterprise-wide Governance, Risk, Compliance (GRC) and Quality Solutions for global corporations. MetricStream solutions are used by leading corporations such as Pfizer, Philips, NASDAQ, SanDisk, BP, Entergy, Subway, Fairchild Semiconductor, Hitachi and TaylorMade-Adidas Golf in diverse industries such as Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices, Automotive, Food, High Tech Manufacturing, Energy and Financial Services to manage their quality processes, regulatory and industry-mandated compliance and corporate governance initiatives, as well as by over a million compliance professionals worldwide via the ComplianceOnline.com portal. MetricStream is headquartered in Palo Alto, California.
