A syndicate of 20 Australian and international banks knew the Bell Group was almost insolvent but did not engage in any 'conscious wrongdoing' or dishonesty in accepting loans to keep it afloat, a West Australian court has found.But the legal saga that stems from the 1991 collapse of the Bond Corporation subsidiary is far from complete.West Australian Supreme Court Justice Neville Owen is urging the parties to mediate on any costs associated with the $1.7 billion claim by the group's liquidators.The liquidators of the former Alan Bond entity had argued the banks, including Australia's Westpac, National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank of Australia, took advantage of the Bell Group in its dying days by securing lucrative assets in return for refinancing.They alleged that when the banks refinanced loans before the collapse, they knew the group's stable of more than 80 companies was close to insolvency.On Tuesday, Justice Owen said the Bell Group was insolvent as of January 1990, around the time the group's funds were given up to the banks. 'Did the directors know the companies were insolvent? No. But they knew the companies were nearly insolvent or of doubtful solvency,' Justice Owen said in his written judgement. 'In causing the companies to enter into the transactions ... did the Australian (Bell Group) directors breach the duties they owed to the Australian Bell Group of companies? Yes.' Handing down his findings in a brief three-minute address to a packed courtroom, Justice Owen said the case could go on for years unless the parties sat down to mediate. 'Are the banks liable under any of the four heads on which the equitable fraud claims are based? No.' But he said the banks may be liable under other statutory claims.Outside the court, liquidator Tony Woodings said the plaintiffs had established their main claim but it would take some time to determine some aspects of the case, which may well end up back in court.He said lawyers would have to study more than 2,600 pages of findings to determine any carve-up of the $1.7 billion being claimed by the plaintiffs, which include the Insurance Commission of Western Australia, the Commonwealth of Australia, Bell Group Netherlands and Antilles, and the Lord Debenture Trust Corporation.The banks that sold the Bell Group assets for $280 million also include Lloyds of London, France's Credit Lyonnais and Dresdner Bank in Germany.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
