By Jackson OkothMabati Rolling Mills (MRM), a key player in the steel industry, has unveiled the price of a Sh2 billion bond issue.Investors holding this debt instrument will realise a return at the rate of one per cent above the prevailing interest on eight-year Treasury Bond, for a fixed rate coupon.While those holding floating rate coupons expect a yield of 1.75 per cent above the prevailing 182-day Treasury Bill rate.MRM enters the bond market at a time when the Nairobi Stock Exchange (NSE) bourse is subdued with fund managers and investors shifting from the equity to debt market.It also comes in when rising inflation has hit the bond market, leading to negative returns. 'With prevailing high inflation rates, at 27.6 per cent for August, this has eroded returns on bonds, currently pegged at between 11-15 per cent', says Odhiambo Ocholla, Head of Investment Banking and Fund Management, Suntra Investment Bank. The eight-year corporate bond is a long term financing which the firm will use for its expansion programme. 'We intend to double our production capacity from 100,000 to 200,000 units and make new investments, including a new aluminium-zinc coating line,' Satish Sawhney, the firm's Chief Finance Officer told The Standard.This 8-year tenor corporate bond will mature in October 27, 2016 with the period of sale running from October 6 to 22. Investors can apply for a minimum of Sh1 million. The steel maker's Sh 2 billion bond joins other issuers in the debt market including Preferential Trade Area Bank (Sh 1 billion), East African Development Bank (EADB) (Sh 800 million), Athi River (Sh 800 million), Shelter Afrique(Sh 500 million), Faulu Kenya (Sh 500 million) and Barclays (Sh 3 billion).Other entries into the corporate bond market are Sasini Tea and Coffee and Investment &amp;amp; Mortgage bank, who have all come into this market to raise funds. The arrangers of the Mabati Rolling Mills notes are CFC Stanbic Bank, CitiBank and Standard Chartered Bank.The lead sponsoring stockbrokers and placing agents are CFC Financial Services and Dyer and Blair Investment Bank while the fiscal agent and registrar is CFC Stanbic Bank.The corporate bond is expected to attract market interest at a time when the stock exchange is experiencing a downward spiral.    Transporters have recorded huge losses after the Government began enforcing the axle load rule, last week ....more      It is the richest sports association. Athletics Kenya has in the past loaned less endowed associations as was the case with K...more     The eighth Kenya Homes Expo and the seventh Property and Home Living Expo came to a resounding close last Sunday as visitors and exhibitors scrambled for that one or two last business deals. Stands ranged from real estate, medical cover companies, insurance companies, interior dcor, home financing, gardening to sanitary ware.  
