BRUSSELS, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The following are proposed mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures under review by the European Commission, and a brief guide to the EU merger process: APPROVALS AND WITHDRAWALS: -- Germany's Deutsche Bank buys certain assets of banking company ABN AMRO (approved Oct. 1) -- German telecoms company Deutsche Telekom buys control of Hellenic Telecommunications Organisation (OTE) (approved Oct. 2). NEW LISTINGS: -- Sappi Ltd, a South African maker of paper and chemical cellulose, buys the coated graphic business and certain related uncoated graphic business activities of Finland's M-real Oyj (notified Sept. 29/deadline Nov. 3) EXTENSIONS AND OTHER CHANGES: None FIRST-STAGE REVIEWS BY DEADLINE: OCT 3 -- U.S. global payment card company American Express and Belgian banking and insurance company Fortis buy Belgian payment card company Alpha Card (notified Aug. 29/deadline Oct. 3) OCT 6 -- U.S. composite polymers company Ashland buys U.S. specialty chemicals company Hercules (notified Sept. 1/deadline Oct. 6) OCT 10 -- German pharmaproducts company Haniel and German holiday hotels company Schmidt-Ruthenbeck buy German cash and carry markets company Metro AG (notified Sept. 5/deadline Oct. 10/simplified) -- French pharmaceuticals and human vaccines company Sanofi-Aventis buys generic pharmaceuticals firm Zentiva (notified Sept. 5/deadline Oct. 10) OCT 13 -- French global services company Capgemini buys Dutch IT services group Getronics PinkRoccade's Business Application Services BV (BAS) unit in the Netherlands (notified Sept. 8/deadline Oct. 13) -- Brazilian meat processor Marfrig buys some Brazilian and European undertakings of U.S. fresh and processed poultry company OSI Group (notified Sept. 8/deadline Oct. 13) -- Rail Cargo Austria AG, a freight transport and forwarding company, acquires control of the whole of Hungarian peer MAV Cargo (notified Aug. 25/deadline Sept. 29/on Sept. 23, deadline extended to Oct. 13) OCT 14 -- UK pharmaceutical products wholesaler Alliance Boots buys German pharmaceutical products wholesaler Megapharm (notified Sept. 9/deadline Oct. 14/simplified) OCT 15 -- Italy's Eni buys Belgian natural gas company Distrigas, part of French utility Suez (notified Sept. 10/deadline Oct. 15) -- German commercial bank Deutsche Bank and U.S. global investment bank Goldman Sachs buy Dutch finance leasing company Befraco (notified Sept. 10/deadline Oct. 15/simplified) -- Allianz Lebensversicherungs and Allianz Versicherungs, belonging to German insurer Allianz, and GLL AMB Generali Holding Bank Center of Luxembourg, belonging to the Italian Generali Group, acquire joint control of Hungarian rental companies TopTorony and Shaza (notified Sept. 10/deadline Oct. 15/simplified) OCT 17 -- Portuguese oil company Galp Energia acquires U.S. energy major Exxon Mobil's businesses in Portugal and Spain (notified Sept. 12/deadline Oct. 17) -- U.S. plastics and chemicals company Dow Chemical and Petrochemical Industries Co KSC, controlled by Kuwait Petroleum Corp, acquire joint control of a new company active in manufacturing and marketing polyethylene, polypropylene and other products (notified Sept. 12/deadline Oct. 17/simplified) -- Life Assurance Holding Corp, a British specialist consolidator of life assurance companies that is controlled by Swiss Re, buys Barclays Life Assurance Co and its wholly owned subsidiary BLAC Ltd from British bank Barclays (notified Sept. 12/deadline Oct. 17/simplified) OCT 20 -- Belgian-Dutch financial group Fortis (notified Feb. 6/deadline July 4/deadline extended to Dec. 9/suspended on Sept. 1/suspension lifted on Sept. 29, new deadline Jan. 15, 2009) JAN 22 -- Air France unit KLM buys Martinair Holland [MART.UL], another airline (notified July 17/deadline Aug. 25/10 working days extension/new deadline Sept. 8/in-depth investigation opened on Sept. 8/deadline Jan. 22, 2009) GUIDE TO EU MERGER PROCESS DEADLINES: The European Commission has 25 working days after a deal is filed for a first-stage review. It may extend that to 35 working days, to consider either a company's proposed remedies or an EU member state's request to handle the case. Most mergers win approval but occasionally the Commission opens a detailed second-stage investigation for up to 90 additional working days, which it may extend to 105 working days. SIMPLIFIED: Under the simplified procedure, the Commission announces the clearance of uncontroversial first-stage mergers without giving any reason for its decision. Cases may be reclassified as non-simplified -- that is, ordinary first-stage reviews -- until they are approved. tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.comcmrCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
