-Mail on Sunday CO-OP PLANS TAKEOVER OF BRITANNIA Co-operative Financial Services is in 'early' takeover negotiations with Britannia, the second-biggest building society in the country. The deal would create a 70 billion pound financial giant with more than nine million customers and 13,000 staff. If it is agreed, it could also lead to the disappearance of Britannia from the high street as Co-op seeks to take on the UK's main retail banks. Complicated voting must take place before they can merge, and no customers of either mutual will receive windfall bonuses. WHITBREAD ENJOYS HOTEL BOOST Whitbread, the owner of Premier Inn, looks set to post a large increase in half-year profits this week, as it is boosted by cash-strapped business travellers looking to slash costs. Whitbread is forecast to return profits of 119 million pounds for the half-year to September, compared to 99.4 million pounds in the same period the previous year. Premier Inn has announced a rise of 10.2 percent in like-for-like sales in the 24 weeks to August 14. NORWICH STILL PLANS WINDFALLS On Friday night, Norwich Union said its policyholders will still receive windfalls worth one billion pounds next year, despite the tumbling stock markets. Its pledge came a week after shares in Aviva, its parent company, crashed amid fears that its capital had been eroded by exposure to AIG, bailed out by Washington last month, and defunct investment bank Lehman Brothers. Andrew Moss, Aviva's boss, said the insurer was sound on Thursday, and its shares rallied. However, doubts still remain over Norwich's vast 'reattribution' project. The Sunday Times PUBS BOSS JOINS GYM CHAIN Karen Jones, one of the pub industry's most successful executives, has joined the board of Virgin Active as a non-executive director. Jones is the second high-profile business figure to join the gym chain, following the appointment of Richard Barker, the former Boots boss, in April. Virgin Active's newest recruit is also a non-executive director at HBOS, and retains an interest in the pub trade through Food &amp;amp; Fuel, a chain of gastropubs she founded. ADVISERS STEP IN AT JJB JJB Sports has appointed KMPG, the specialist debt advisers, in an effort to secure the troubled retailer's short-term financial future as its problems continue to mount. KPMG's team will lead talks between JJB and its lending banks, Barclays and HBOS, in an attempt to get firm agreements that they will continue to support the company, which has been affected by a spate of financial problems. The Sunday Telegraph PREMIER FOODS GETS TASTE FOR CCMP Premier Foods has begun secret negotiations to secure a major capital injection. The move provides fresh evidence that the financial crisis is hurting companies outside the financial sector. Premier's board is in detailed talks with CCMP Capital, JP Morgan's private equity arm, regarding a cash injection that is likely to be worth several hundred million pounds. A source said: 'Effectively the company is looking for a bridge that will remove the uncertainty about the debt and banking covenant issues.' J SAINSBURY IN DASH TO LOCATE TCHENGUIZ'S HOLDING J Sainsbury, the supermarket group, was trying to find a 10.4 percent holding this weekend worth 420 million pounds after last week's collapse of Kaupthing, the Icelandic bank. Property businessman Robert Tchenguiz was forced to offload his shares in Sainsbury after the Treasury placed the British arm of Kaupthing into administration. The bank had financed Tchenguiz's holding, and the supermarket is said to be furious that it has not located the stock. CHEMICAL GROUP INEOS TO SELL ASSETS AS CATALYST TO REDUCE DEBT. Ineos, the chemicals group, is considering selling assets in an attempt to reduce its debt burden. According to people familiar with Ineos, which is one of the largest private companies in Britain, it is looking at disposing of a number of businesses in the United States. The company, which has 18 businesses and 16,000 staff, works in the manufacturing, distribution and sales of speciality chemicals and petrochemicals. The Independent on Sunday WALKER DROPS WOOLWORTHS TO BUYS BITS OF ICELAND It is thought Malcolm Walker, founder of frozen food retailer Iceland, has ended his interest in acquiring Woolworths to concentrate on buying up chunks of his group, owned by Baugur. A city insider said: 'Woolworths is pretty much off. It's not totally scrapped but it's very much on the backburner.' Instead, Walker will concentrate on buying up Baugur's stake in the Iceland food group, following the turmoil in the investment company's domestic Icelandic market. FRIENDS PROVIDENT WAITS IN WINGS FOR HBOS STAKE IN ST JAMES'S The chief executive of Friends Provident, Trevor Matthews, is thought to be running the rule over HBOS's 59 percent stake in St James's Place Capital (SJP), the wealth manager. It is likely the stake in SJP will be sold off by Lloyds TSB if it completes its acquisition of HBOS, alongside other non-core assets, including motor insurer esure and Clerical Medical. Shares in SJP fell 26 pence to reach 192 pence on Friday, valuing the company at 920 million pounds. RUGBY ESTATES REVEALS 100 MILLION POUND EQUITY PLANS David Tye and Andrew Wilson, chairman and chief executive of Rugby Estates, are wooing leading shareholders over a plan to raise 100 million pounds in fresh equity. On Friday, the duo met Laxey Partners, the property group's largest shareholder, to seek approval for the equity proposal. Last week, Rugby Estates revealed a 4.4 million pound pre-tax loss for the six months to 31 July. The company made a 4.1 million pound pre-tax profit in the first six months last year. The Observer BUDGET CHAINS TOP PRESS COVERAGE Analysis by Taylor Nelson Sofres and Aldi have received the most favourable news coverage in the year to date. The research reflects the popularity of value grocers as the economic downturn begins to bite. Marks &amp;amp; Spencer has also dropped out of the top ten this year. PHILIP GREEN STEPS IN TO SAVE BAUGUR Sir Philip Green, the retail billionaire, is set to cement his position as king of the high street after staging a dramatic intervention to stave off the collapse of Baugur, the Icelandic retail investor. Sir Philip could invest up to two billion pounds into Baugur, which employs 53,000 people. It could also result in him controlling parts of the investor's holdings in House of Fraser, as well as Mosaic Fashions, owner of Oasis, Warehouse and the Karen Millen chains. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants Keywords: PRESS DIGEST British business Oct 12 tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com ak COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved. The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News. MMMM
