Business Editors LONDON &amp;amp; KANSAS CITY, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 31, 2008--BATS Trading Limited (BATS Europe), a fully-owned subsidiary of BATS Holdings, Inc., announces live trading on its Multilateral Trading Facility in Europe. "This is a tremendous milestone in the history of BATS," said Mark Hemsley, CEO of BATS Europe. "We are excited about the opportunity in front of us and look forward to bringing greater efficiency to traders in Europe, following our mission of Making Markets Better." BATS Europe currently offers trading in 10 securities and will roll out London Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext and Xetra securities by November 19 th. A complete, detailed rollout schedule is available at: http://www.batstrading.co.uk/The initial stocks are Barclays, BG Group, Billiton, BP, HSBC, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland, Rio Tinto, Royal Dutch Shell and Vodafone Group. BATS and some other Multilateral Trading Facilities, or MTFs, share a common symbology. For further information on symbology and BATS Europe, please go to http://www.batstrading.co.uk/resources/participant-resources/BATSEuro- MarketGuide.pdf. (Due to its length, this URL may need to be copied/pasted into your Internet browser's address field. Remove the extra space if one exists.)In the US, BATS Exchange launched on the 24 th of October and will be live in all US-listed symbols by the 6 th of November. The firm, which began offering US trading in January 2006, currently accounts for about 12% US matched market share.About BATSBATS Holdings (BATS) is an innovative global financial markets technology company headquartered in the Kansas City, Mo., area with additional offices in New York and London. The BATS platform was launched in January 2006 and, operating as BATS Exchange, Inc., is one of the fastest growing, top tier equity markets in the United States. BATS serves the European market through its London based, FSA-authorised subsidiary, BATS Trading Limited, which operates a Multilateral Trading Facility for European securities. The BATS platform is internally developed by a dedicated core team of market and technology professionals, catering to the needs of the broker-dealer and trading community. BATS  Making Markets Better.
