Memon Investments, a leading Dubai-based property developer and part of the international business conglomerate, the , has announced its participation as a campaign partner for 'Safe &amp;amp; Sound', an annual and comprehensive breast cancer awareness programme spearheaded by BurJuman. The leading developer is lending its support for the second year in a row to the annual campaign, following its all-out participation in the initiative's activities held last year. This marks Memon Investments' step towards an aggressive CSR undertaking in the region, following the long list of CSR initiatives embarked on by its parent company. As a campaign partner, Memon Investments reiterates its continuous support to the main aim of 'Safe &amp;amp; Sound', which is to disseminate information regarding breast cancer within the community, while raising funds to support patient care and further awareness initiatives. By aiding BurJuman in its long-running campaign, the developer is aiming to play a major role in ensuring that all women living within the UAE are given ample knowledge of various preventative measures and early detection procedures, which will help them evade the fatal consequence of the disease. This year, Memon Investments' participation will be focused on strengthening the campaign's media visibility, thereby further expanding the reach of the initiative's message to a wider audience. 'Memon Investments has always been at the forefront of supporting the development of women as they are an important pillar of the society upon which we aim to build a commendable business and social reputation,' said Princy Philip, Sr. Manager - Marketing and Corporate Communications, Memon Investments. 'Our involvement with the 'Safe &amp;amp; Sound' campaign is in line with our corporate philosophy to join hands with the most influential societal movements to advance the betterment of all sectors of society across all fronts. We have made a decision to render our support to this noble cause for the second year now, and this reiterates our strong belief in the relevance of this campaign, not only for women, but to the development of the society where they play a crucial role.' Memon Investments joins other multinational partners in this annual campaign from the healthcare, retail and business sectors such as Johnson &amp;amp; Johnson Vision Care, Hertz and Welcare World, in addition to the Pink Walkathon partners - Dubai Healthcare City, Dubai Chamber of Commerce, MD Anderson and Barclays. Each partner has announced their support to further expand the objectives of the programme. The developer is expected to bring ample resources to the campaign, which can aid in making the communication of its primary message more exhaustive. 'Safe &amp;amp; Sound was launched 11 years ago in BurJuman and today is one of the region's largest and most comprehensive breast cancer awareness initiatives. We always focus on increasing local awareness and encouraging and motivating women of all ethnicities to engage in regular medical check-ups and further testing, including mammographies and clinical consultation. Through our strategic partnerships with organisations like Memon Investments, we feel we are able to touch the lives of so many and continue to spread this message of hope and empowerment,' concluded Sabina Khandwani, Head of PR &amp;amp; Marketing, BurJuman. Memon Investments has successfully established itself as a leading name in property development in the UAE by leveraging the rapid growth of the local and regional real estate sector through the launch of ambitious projects, which have gained widespread distinction for their unique concepts and high quality standards. The developer had recently announced plans to launch 10 projects worth over Dhs3bn by the end of 2008. Memon Investments' present project portfolio amounts to Dhs998m comprising of high profile residential and commercial projects, including the Champions Towers I, II, III and IV and Frankfurt Sports Tower I in Dubai Sports City, and Cambridge Business Centre in Dubai Silicon Oasis. 
