       A 39 billion tab isn't so bad when you get to split it amongst 300 million of your closest citizens. Had I known this was the plan, I would have at least ordered an appetizer --- Merrill Lynch Lost $39.1 Billion In Six Quarters 8 minutes ago - Dow Jones News  Related Companies Symbol  Last  %Chg BAC  7.21  -13.37% As of 2:15 PM ET 1/16/09    By Jessica Papini Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. is going out with a bang. When Bank of America, Merrill's buyer, announced earnings Friday, it provided preliminary fourth-quarter results on Merrill. Merrill's $15.3 billion loss would have been a massive $9.62 per diluted share, according to preliminary numbers. The fourth quarter would have been the sixth-straight quarterly loss for the investment bank. For the combined six quarters, Merrill stacked up $39.1 billion in losses. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch had a shotgun wedding in September, as the financial crisis intensified and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.(LEHMQ) filed for bankruptcy protection. Merrill Lynch has been selling off troubled assets for the past few months, and it is difficult to see an end in sight. Now, Bank of America, which also acquired Countrywide Financial last year, has to deal with integrating the two firms, putting its balance sheet in danger. To help close the Merrill acquisition, the government is buying another $20 billion in preferred stock from Bank of America, and will backstop up to $118 billion in toxic assets, three quarters of which come from Merrill. "Bank of America perhaps provided the market with stability with the help of the government to buy Merrill Lynch, but has now created problems of its own," said Joseph Battipaglia, head equity strategist for the private-client group at Stifel Nicolaus. Merrill Lynch, which last reported as an independent company in the third quarter, had dismal preliminary numbers in the fourth quarter. Merrill Lynch had net revenues of negative $12.6 billion. Bank of America said Merrill's losses were "driven by severe capital markets dislocations." It remains to be seen how many more troubled assets will have to be written off Merrill's book. "Everything is unraveling now," said Battipaglia. The residential market, followed by the commercial real-estate market, and the high-yield market, he said. Additionally, trading could cause problems for Bank of America as well. "Bad trading losses compound the [Merrill] problem," said Battipaglia, adding, trading has always been a wild card for trading houses, even in good times. Merrill Lynch had significant write-downs in the fourth quarter including $1.1 billion in commercial real-estate loans, a $1.7 billion loss on private equity and principal investment holdings, and a $1.9 leveraged finance loss driven by several concentrated commitments. "Merrill Lynch could not have stayed independent, it would have been insolvent," said Battipaglia. Merrill's commodity business and investment banking remained relatively strong. Investment banking revenue was $718 million, down 4% over the third quarter. By comparison, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) reported a $2.4 billion loss in investment banking in the fourth quarter. However, some of JPMorgan's losses were related to its merger with Bear Stearns. Global wealth management, which was alluring to Bank of America's Chief Executive Ken Lewis, had net revenues of $2.6 billion, as fees held up well despite the declining market. Bank of America did not include Merrill's numbers in its fourth-quarter earnings, but will in the first quarter of 2009. "No bank is big enough to take all these hits simultaneously," said Battipaglia, "and that's why government money and bailouts are needed." - By Jessica Papini, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2437; jessica.papini@dowjones.com  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary:  http://www.djnewsplus.com/nae/al?rnd=gTiHcHOPyxucBw8b%2FBH7yg%3D%3D.  You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  
