The Year of Yield January 2, 2009, 12:48 pm The Year of Yield Posted by David Gaffen With 2008 having proved a humbling experience for most of the market, many investment managers are embracing a strategy that gives them, at least, some guarantee for returns. And that means a focus on corporate debt, which offers yields at high spreads when compared with government debt, as well as dividend-paying stocks, many of which offer strong yields when compared with their share prices. Its going to be the year of yield, says James Cox, managing partner of Harris Financial Group in Colonial Heights, Va. Weve rendered short-term instruments worthless in terms of their ability to generate any type of return, so therefore youre going to start to see interest in corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, so people can get a little bit of yield without taking on a lot of risk. In 2008, just about anything other than government debt was shellacked. Stocks, even dividend-payers, were a rough investment, as the average dividend-paying stock in the S&amp;P 500 lost 40.4%, according to Standard &amp; Poors. Corporate debt was better, but still sunk, with the Barclays triple-B rated index falling 9.6%, and the Merrill Lynch High Yield Index falling 26.1%. The economic outlook remains unsettled, leading some to remain a bit on the conservative side, such as Mr. Cox, who points to high-dividend paying stocks such as large pharmaceutical companies. Pfizer, for instance, has an indicated dividend yield of 7.2%. Bank stocks are even more generous, with Citigroup and Bank of America offering dividend yields of 9.5% and 9%, respectively. However, the wholesale decline in investments in 2008 might mean that the selective approach will fall short in 2009. Anthony Richards, managing principal at Stairway Partners in Oak Brook, Ill., says investment-grade credits dont offer the value of riskier assets such as equities and high-yield bonds, which he says have already discounted a large increase in default rates in the coming months. Defaults are going to go up but you can have defaults go up and still have an attractive return in the high-yield market, he says. Given what we had last year with everything but government bonds doing very poorly, its actually the year you can take diversified risk and expect higher returns. Merrills high-yield index trades at more than 18 percentage points higher than comparable Treasurys, but that represents a narrowing from the 52-week high, when it was at 21.7 percentage points over Treasurys. Still, those opting for a more conservative approach might still find this asset class a bit risky. How quick does this credit market begin to unfreeze so these companies begin to roll [over] their debt? asks Mitch Stapley, chief fixed income officer at Fifth Third Asset Management. Theyre high-yield for a reason. It looks cheap right now, but theres an awful lot of debt to roll and an awful lot of questions to be answered there. Right now, you dont need to reach down in quality to pick up yield in this marketplace. Permalink   Trackback URL: http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2009/01/02/the-year-of-yield/trackback/
