da Finantial Times      Barclays seeks to reassure investors   By Peter Thal Larsen and Jane Croft in London and Francesco Guerrera and Greg Farrell in New York      Published: January 16 2009 19:18   Last updated: January 16 2009 21:22      Barclays on Friday took the extraordinary step of declaring its profits for last year were better than expected in an effort to quell concerns that had triggered a 25 per cent plunge in its share price.      The UKs third largest bank said 2008 profit before tax for the year, reflecting costs, impairments and market valuations, would be well ahead of the 5.3bn forecast by analysts.      Barclays moved after its shares fell to 98p, their lowest level since 1993. Earlier, amid intensifying turmoil in the capital markets, US-based Citigroup and Merrill Lynch  owned by Bank of America  reported huge losses, triggering concerns that other lenders were likely to follow suit.      Barclays was not due to report its results until February 17, and its decision to take such an unprecedented step underscores the banks determination to reassure the markets about its financial position.      Fridays late sell-off came on the day the UK ban on short-selling in financial stocks, in place since last September, was lifted.      The move came after days of speculation that Barclays might need to raise fresh capital.      The bank has so far avoided turning to the UK government for capital, but has been dogged by accusations that it has been less aggressive than rivals in valuing complex debt securities on its balance sheet.      Barclays said on Friday it expected to end 2008 with an equity tier one capital ratio - a measure of financial strength - of 6.5 per cent at the year end and a tier one capital base of 9.5 per cent, after the conversion of mandatory convertible notes it issued to investors as part of its capital raising last autumn.      The banks pre-tax profits are expected to have been boosted by a negative goodwill adjustment related to its acquisition of the US assets of Lehman Brothers.      The grim news from some of the biggest names in global finance stoked investor fears of another round of capital-raisings, triggering another sell-off in bank shares
