   Judged:     1     1       This is, apparently, yet another valentine to Lori Farrell by her apparent admirer, Paul Eakins. People don't typically do a lot of homework when they're making Valentines from scratch, so let me help Paul with his homework regarding why Farrell's choices were beyond irresponsible, bordering on incompetency:  1. On August 19, 2008, Lehman's saw a 13.04 per cent fall in its share prices as fears over the state of its earnings results grew, while a senior US economist warned the credit crunch would soon "bring a whopper bank to its knees."  2. Analysts at JPMorgan stated then that they expect Lehman Brothers to be forced to write off more than 4 billion in August, following over $8 billion in writedowns already made.  3. Earlier in 2008, the investment bank posted its first loss  amounting to $2.8 billion for the second quarter  in its 14 years as a listed company.  4. On August 19th, Kenneth Rogoff  former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned that another US bank could fail as the US economy was "not out of the woods." Speaking at a Singapore conference, he said: "I would even go further to say the worst is to come. We're not just going to see mid-sized banks go under in the next few months. We're going to see a WHOPPER, we're going to see a BIG ONE, One of the BIG INVESTMENT BANKS or big banks." "  In spite of all this (and more) easily obtained information available prior to the Lehman meltdown, that Paul Eakins saw fit not to report in this story, Lori Farrell chose to do business with Lehman anyway.  To the objective reader, ask yourself, if you had this information, which was easily obtainable at the time, as well as the daily market volatility which was easy to see, would you STILL choose to initiate a commercial paper transaction, to the tune of $20 Million taxpayer dollars with Lehman's, if you didn't have to?  If so, I'd sure like to see your list of great reasons.  She's not getting paid $180K a year to invest based on RATINGS. Someone who would qualify for minimum wage could make investment of that quality. She's paid to understand what is going on in the market, and make reasonably safe investments for reasonable gains. Not to LOSE the entire amount, based on bogus ratings, while hoping the government will bail her out when a stupid decision goes south on her.  This whole thing stinks. She shouldn't have her job, and Paul Eakins is doing a lousy job reporting on this matter, in my opinion.
