WASHINGTON - Sarah Palin can't sound like comedian Tina Fey.Joe Biden can't sound like, well, Joe Biden.The two vice presidential contenders square off in their only debate tonight with supporters watching nervously - worried that their candidate will flub their last best chance to score points with voters.The stakes are particularly high for Palin. She has watched her once-favorable ratings with voters plummet amid growing public doubts about whether she's up to the job. A serious anti-Palin backlash even has some Republicans questioning whether she should remain on John McCain's ticket. It's been so rough that Fey, impersonating Palin, got laughs on 'Saturday Night Live' last week simply by repeating verbatim Palin's rather jumbled explanation of the Wall Street bailout.Democrats have their own worries. Some consider Biden a ticking time bomb in his own right, a 35-year Senate veteran with a reputation for talking - and talking - like one. Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri said yesterday that Biden has a 'tendency to say things that are kind of stupid.' Look for markedly different strategies in St. Louis. Democrats expect Biden to use a low-key approach, defending Barack Obama and keeping the focus on McCain with little direct interaction with Palin.Palin said yesterday she'll come out aggressively on taxes and offshore drilling - hoping to give McCain's campaign a boost it badly needs. In the end, experts agree a tie goes to Palin. Yet low expectations help Palin only so much. 'I think the bar is low; it's as low as it gets,' said political analyst Jennifer Duffy. 'But she's got to clear it with lots of room to spare.'BIDEN1 No gaffes, please.Whether contradicting Obama on the wisdom of the AIG insurance bailout, or criticizing one of his campaign's own attacks on McCain, Biden has shown a proclivity for the verbal miscue. It's gotten so bad lately some shoulda, woulda, coulda Democrats are wishing Obama had chosen Hillary Rodham Clinton instead. Democrats agree Biden's strategy must be simplicity itself: Do no harm. 'He will, in fact, understand his tasks are to defend and advance Obama and to go after McCain, and that she's a sideshow,' said Bob Shrum, John Kerry's 2004 campaign chief.2 That's Gov. Palin to you.Experts agree - a man debating a woman is just harder than a man debating a man, and if you don't think so, ask former Long Island Rep. Rick Lazio. He walked across the stage at a debate with Clinton in 2000 and was blasted for looking like the aggressor.Biden, who spoke to Clinton and other female politicians about the debate, must show nothing but absolute respect for Palin. 'Even if a slight passing reference, or just a single moment in the debate, does something that feeds into the notion of him being loose-lipped, or too quick with a caustic retort, or a bit too brash, it could lead to the interpretation [among voters] of, 'See, look at how they treat her,'' said Mitchell McKinney, a debate expert at the University of Missouri.3 Keep it short.Biden has a well-earned reputation as one of the Senate's talkiest members - but he must resist the urge tonight. Experts say he needs to have that mental clock in his head that tells him when he's going on too long, so he can wrap up his answers crisply when the time clock runs out. 'The other part of being a good debater is knowing when to listen, when to be quiet and when to let the other person talk themselves into a corner,' said Stephen Llano, a professor at St. John's University. 4 Resist the urge to act like the smartest kid in class.Americans want their leaders to be smart, but nobody likes a know-it-all. Independent voters faulted McCain last week when he repeatedly criticized Obama, and Biden could fall into that trap with Palin. Biden is arguably one of the Senate's most knowledgeable experts on foreign policy, but a little of that will go a long way to convince people he can step into the top job.5 Be yourself.For all his recent stumbles, many voters have found a kind of rumpled charm in Biden, who has had success connecting with small-town audiences. He runs the same risk as Palin - of coming off over-programmed and straight-jacketed. PALIN1 Show she's up to the job.Early on, voters cut Palin some slack as a newcomer because she had a fresh and appealing style. But her recent TV interview stumbles have caused many voters to turn against her. A new Associated Press poll found that only 25 percent of voters say Palin has the right experience to be president, down from 41 percent a month ago. 'She's got to prove herself times 100,' said conservative strategist Greg Mueller. 'There needs to be an ability to make the American public feel more comfortable that she can be president of the United States.' 2 Get her mojo back.Palin needs to remind people why they liked her in the first place. She's already hinted at how she'll accomplish that, by reminding voters that she's a 'normal Joe Six-Pack American,' just like them, not a Washington insider. She said she and husband Todd lost money in the Wall Street downturn and once struggled to get health coverage - kitchen-table issues designed to say 'I'm one of you.' 3 Beat back the gotcha.That approach also might allow her to inoculate herself against any curveball question moderator Gwen Ifill throws her way - and some experts said Palin might consider admitting upfront she doesn't know the name of every world leader but does understand the problems of everyday Americans.4 Don't look too scripted.Palin was criticized by some voters for seeming like she was reading off mental note cards in her first TV interview with ABC's Charlie Gibson. Some Republicans fault the McCain campaign for 'over-coaching' Palin - breaking her confidence and natural speaking flair. Stephen Llano, who teaches a presidential debates course at St. John's University, urged Palin to boil her pitch down to a half-dozen messages to hammer home in the debate.5 Don't worry about outsmarting Biden.In this debate, Biden is almost like the incumbent - viewers expect him to know more than Palin from his three decades in the Senate. Palin's task isn't to show she's smarter than Biden, only that she personally has the levelheaded judgment to handle the job.Tuning inWHEN 9 tonight, broadcast from Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.SUBJECT Domestic and foreign policyMODERATOR PBS' Gwen Ifill, 'The News Hour' and 'Washington Week.' COVERAGE ABC, CBS, NBC, PBS, CNN, MSNBC and other channels 
