FITCHBURG -- Republican U.S. Senate candidate Jeff Beatty told listeners at Fitchburg State College on Wednesday that his opponent, Democratic Sen. John Kerry, 'put troops in harm's way for political purposes' by supporting the Iraq war. Beatty accused Kerry of voting in favor of the war to boost approval ratings leading up to his presidential campaign. 'You can't just run for office -- you have to stand for something,' Beatty said. Beatty took questions from audience members, comprised mainly of Fitchburg State students, on health care, education, and the economy. About 20 people were in the audience. Beatty, a former special agent with the FBI and former operations officer with the CIA's Counter-Terrorism Center, said he would have voted against the Iraq war, and outlined what steps he feels must be taken in order to gain success and reduce American troop presence by 100,000 in the next 12-to-24 months. 'The surge is working because Iraqis have realized American troops are there to do a job and would eventually leave,' he said. 'They compare that with the Taliban presence and they realize the Taliban isn't going anywhere, and that the best thing to do is stay and fight to get their country back.' Beatty called for similar measures in Afghanistan. 'I think what you're going to see is us working with the Pakistanis, getting more activity going on in the tribal regions, and keeping al- Qaida on the run,' he said. Beatty Advertisementcompared the war on terror to a war on crime. 'You can significantly decrease (terrorism), but, like crime, you can't expect it to ever go away completely,' he said. Beatty, who has lived in Harwich since 1973, joined the Delta Force as an Assault Troop commander in the early 1980s. During his time with the CIA, he participated in several anti-terrorism intelligence missions in Europe and the Middle East. Beatty founded TotalSecurity.US, a firm that specializes in anti-terrorism training and consulting, in 1992. But, while successful, Beatty stressed that he is 'no millionaire,' another point he used as an attack on Kerry. 'I live in a 1,200-square-foot house,' he said. 'John Kerry is one of the wealthiest members of the Senate. I don't believe the Senate should be run by a millionaire's club.' Beatty accused Kerry of doing favors for certain businesses in exchange for perks, most notably by pushing for the AIG insurance corporation to remain as an insurer on the Big Dig project in exchange for a paid trip to a spa. 'I sold my stocks before I ran,' Beatty said. 'I don't think there's any room for a conflict of interest in politics.' The college's Student Government Association sponsored the event. 'Meetings like this offer students unfettered access to candidates,' said Class of 2011 Vice President Eric Gregoire, who introduced Beatty. 'It's a chance for students to really ask the questions about what candidates are going to do to make sure we have jobs coming out of college. Not a lot of candidates come to college campuses.' Gregoire said Student Government leaders invited Kerry and Rep. John Olver, D-Amherst, to similar meetings, but the incumbent legislators declined due to scheduling conflicts. Olver's opponent, Republican U.S. Congressional candidate Nathan Beck, appeared at the college earlier this year. Committees representing both support and opposition to Question 1 on this year's state ballot -- a proposal to eliminate state income tax -- also came to Fitchburg State College, Gregoire said. Beatty said he supports private, affordable health care. 'If government runs health care, there's no competition,' he said. 'Part of what keeps prices down is competition.' Beatty proposed focusing on ways to increase the alternative energy industry in Massachusetts, a move that would address both energy concerns and the state's dwindling job market. He spoke at length on veterans' needs, but was not familiar with the full needs-based funding proposal, which would guarantee that the Department of Veterans Affairs receives 100 percent of the money it declares necessary to provide service to veterans. 'That's something I'll have to take a look at,' Beatty said. 'My philosophy is, 'You break it, you bought it.' If someone gets injured serving our country, it's our responsibility to make them whole again.' Beatty answered one question about how he would work to make college more affordable by asserting his disagreement with Gov. Deval Patrick on certain education-related issues. 'I don't think we should be making slots at state schools available to people who are not here legally,' he said. 'As benevolent and giving as we are, our first obligation is to the people paying taxes.' Beatty also offered stances on all three referendum questions on this year's state ballot, though, as a U.S. senator, he would not be addressing those questions from a legislative perspective. Beatty said he supports Question 1, but only on a symbolic level. 'The state Legislature has said they won't allow that question to pass regardless of what voters say, so it's really just a symbolic vote,' he said. 'But, symbolically, I think people need to send a signal to state leaders that says, 'Stop this spending -- it's out of control.'' He added that he will not support Question 2, a decriminalization of small amounts of marijuana. 'I'm not making a moral judgment,' he said. 'For me, it's a safety issue.' Beatty split with many state conservative leaders when he announced he would support Question 3, a banning of greyhound racing in the Bay State. 'I'm a business person, but I'm also a dog person, and I'm voting with the dogs,' Beatty said. 'I've rescued a lot of dogs. I've flown down to Florida to rescue dogs that were going to be euthanized.' In fact, he quipped, he sought his dog's blessing before embarking on his 18-month Senate campaign. 'I'm divorced and don't have kids, so before I ran, I turned to my dog and said, 'Can you handle this?'' Beatty said. 'He didn't object.'
