  Lessons from the financial meltdown are hard to come by, largely because the mess is so complicated. When it's tough to figure out what happened, it's hard to know whatto do.Basically, though, what happened was a move away from community and toward faceless, heartless investing. Not so long ago, when you needed a home mortgage or a business loan, you went to your banker. That person knew your name, your business, your family. That person pretty much knew if you could, and would, repay the loan. If the banker thought you couldn't handle the loan, you didn't get it.Then the banking business changed fundamentally. Most banks these days are like sales offices, dealing with products - and they have to do that to compete with Internet banking, national mortgage lenders, people you will never meet. They don't look at you as a citizen, a responsible member of the community; they see you as a sales opportunity, and they want to make the sale.So, in millions of transactions all across the country, lenders handed out money to people who wouldn't be able to pay it back. They made the sale, and then those new mortgages were sold and sold again in the investment market, packaged with lots of other mortgages both good and bad, and sold again as an investment package. Invest in real estate! They're not making any more land! The value of real estate always goes up!Smart people bought shares in those real-estate packages, built on loans made to people they didn't know, in towns they'd never see. They bought a pig in a poke.Then more smart people, the ones running insurance companies such as AIG, sold insurance that minimized the risk on those real-estate investments. When the shaky loans started to shake, and the real-estate investment funds started to collapse, the insurers couldn't absorb the loss, and neither could the investment people. Things started to topple. That's when the federal government proposed a $700 billion bailout to prop up the economy and stop the toppling. The government would wind up owning the bad paper - the insurer of last resort. The U.S. House of Representatives rejected the plan Monday, but fresh proposals are being hatched; expect the proposals to keep coming until Congress passes one of them.Soon, though, the fallout from the financial mess will arrive here. Already, says Jeb Spaulding, Vermont's canny state treasurer, mainstream companies, nonprofits and municipalities are simply unable to borrow money at realistic rates, if at all, to carry on basic activities. "Short-term interest rates for working capital have more than quadrupled in the last few weeks," Spaulding said Tuesday. "The municipal bond market is, for all intents, not operating. These challenges are certainly going to affect jobs, housing, student loans, and more."Because the normal sources of money have dried up, Spaulding said, "states are shelving bond issues that are intended to finance infrastructure projects. Businesses are accessing lines of credit not intended for routine operating funds. Pension funds cannot escape significant losses when global markets are sinking; those losses will mean higher tax-supported contributions. State revenues are certain to suffer further, with the resulting burden being transferred to Vermont citizens."Our advice: Go back to the basics. Do business with people you know. Know what you're buying. Don't over-reach. That way, you help keep your community, and your own life, stable and solid. If you want to make a killing, buy a lottery ticket; you'll lose, but at least you'll be investing in Vermont's public schools.As you nurse any lacerations from the national economic meltdown, think about what you can do to help other people hurting worse than you are. This winter is already shaping up as a bruiser because of high energy costs and wobbly finances. We can help Lamoille Community Food Share feed a rising number of hungry families. We can volunteer time to help with the Lamoille Firewood Project, providing wood fuel to people who can use it to stay warm. We can look to our neighbors, our friends, and make sure they're OK. We can't control the global economy, but we can help our community get through this. 
