Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., talks as Republican presidential candidate Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., walks during the second presidential debate at the Curb Center at Belmont University in Nashville, Tenn., Tuesday, Oct. 7, 2008.Most-read storiesMost e-mailed storiesNASHVILLE  Reaching out to an anxious nation, John McCain and Barack Obama vied in a spirited debate Tuesday over who would be the better steward of an economy in crisis.'Americans are angry, theyre upset and theyre a little fearful,' McCain said at the outset of a pressure-packed debate. 'Its our job to fix the problem. Now, I have a plan to fix this problem.''You need somebody in Washington working for you,' Obama told voters huddled in a town-hall meeting and millions more watching at home.Its the economyWith stock markets plummeting, the economy dominated questions posed by voters both at the debate and over the Internet.Participants in the 90-minute meeting were 80 undecided voters from the Nashville area selected by the Gallup polling organization. The debate, held at Belmont University, was moderated by NBCs Tom Brokaw.From the start, the two men worked to show that they understand voters worries, to stress that they know how to fix problems on Wall Street and in the federal budget, and to blame the other for contributing to the economic problems or proposing changes that would make problems worse.McCain said hed shore up the economy by keeping taxes low, pushing energy independence and ordering the Treasury Department to buy bad mortgages to shore up home values.'Its my proposal,' he said. 'Its not Sen. Obamas proposal, its not President Bushs proposal.'Tax cutsObama called for tax cuts for the middle class, help for homeowners to stay in their homes, and help for local governments to build bridges and other infrastructure improvements to create jobs. Longer term, he said, he would expand healthcare and improve energy independence.He called the financial bailout approved by Congress  with support from both major party candidates  a first step.Yet he all but acknowledged some of the fears many Americans have about bailing out Wall Street, noting reports of a $400,000 junket taken by executives of the failed insurance giant AIG just a week after the company was rescued by the government.'The treasury should demand that money back, and those executives should be fired,' Obama said.McCain said hed tried to rein in mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac two years ago  saying their home lending policies were 'the match that started this forest fire'  but that Obama and other Democrats had blocked his efforts. He said Obama got heavy campaign contributions from the two mortgage-lending giants.Obama said he 'never promoted' Fannie and Freddie, then changed the subject by noting that voters dont like the blame game.On the attackBut he, too, went on the attack early, blaming McCain and the Republican Party for the crisis, calling it 'a final verdict on the failed economic policies of the last eight years.'McCain ripped Obama for proposing to raise some taxes, noting that the last president to raise taxes in the face of a similar economic crisis was Herbert Hoover.'Lets not raise anybodys taxes,' McCain said.Promises, promisesMcCain also suggested that Obama would renege on his promise of a middle-class tax cut, saying he promised one as a candidate for the Senate but never proposed one as a senator.'Lets be clear,' Obama countered. 'I want to provide a tax cut for 95 percent of Americans.' He stressed that he would cut taxes for those making less than $200,000 a year and raise them only on those making more than $250,000.An Internet question from someone who called herself a '78-year-old child of the Depression' asked what sacrifices each man might ask Americans to make to put the country back on the right track.'There are some programs we may have to eliminate,' McCain said.
