LONDON - Marketing's mystery caller, having heard about the LloydsTSB/HBOS merger, decided to consider his financial options. But which bank to choose? He thought he'd ask the Halifax.Halifax - Good afternoon. Can I take your name please?Marketing - Yes (provides name).Halifax - And how can I help you?Marketing - Basically a lot of my family have a Halifax bank account and I was looking to set one up, but obviously I've seen a lot on the news about HBOS being taken over. I'm just wondering if I should I just set one up with Lloyds TSB? I'm a bit confused really.Halifax - Ok, well as far as I'm aware it's business as usual. I think in terms of a takeover, merging and everything else I think that they're both going to run through their own names as such, but they will obviously come together at some point in the future. Now this might take a while because it involves two major financial companies.Marketing - Ok, so if they're going to merge in the next six months, do you think I should just set one up with Lloyds, to save me changing it in six months?Halifax - Well it's up to you really, it depends how you feel. As far as I'm aware it'll still be Halifax and Royal Bank of Scotland accounts.Marketing - My nearest bank is actually a Halifax but that might all change in six months.Halifax - No, everything like that will remain the same. So just the fact that they're coming together doesn't mean that they're going to change names, accounts are going to be switched over, and things like that. It just depends on your mind really and what you feel, if you're not sure about (pause) I can obviously give you more information on it.Marketing - What's the difference between a Lloyds and a Halifax account? What interest do you offer on an account?Halifax - It depends really as we have two accounts. We have two accounts which offer 5.12% currents accounts. Now on one of the accounts the terms are that if you fund it with more than 1000 a month, you get the interest rate. The other account is where you pay 12.50 a month fee for the account and you get the rate automatically.Marketing - Compared with Lloyds then, is that a better rate?Halifax - I'm not too sure actually because we're still tied to RBS and are running as two different companies.Marketing - Well I just needed some more information. Thanks for your time.Halifax - Not a problem, cheers pal, bye now.FoxtonsIf i was you, i would score 0/10 RBS has nothing to do with HBOS \(Halifax Bank of Scotland) or LloydsTSB either that, or find a researcher who knows the financial services services well enough to know the difference to and send copy accordingly either way - this story sucks Frank
