After two presidential debates and one vice presidential debate, it's clear that none of the candidates are willing to give a straight answer to an important question: In light of the economic crisis in our financial sector, what issues or programs might have to be put on hold?It's a valid question and possibly the most important issue facing the American people in the next few years. What can our nation afford to do and, more problematically, not afford to do?Congress and President Bush agreed last week to commit $700 billion to a plan to prop up Wall Street. Combined with bailouts of insurance giant AIG and the government sponsored Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage bankers, the taxpayers' tab for the economic crisis is right around $1 trillion.Consider this, however: Some people say the current crisis pales in comparison to the havoc that could be wreaked if our government does not do something to head off its own economic crisis related to Social Security and Medicare.David Walker, who once headed the Government Accountability Office, has been warning of a funding crisis for those programs for years. Wednesday, during a speech at the National Press Club, he repeated that warning, adding an ominous reminder: 'Nobody is going to bail out America.' Walker's concerns aren't new, but they are worth revisiting because today's financial turmoil might help put them in perspective. They seem particularly pertinent when one considers that Americans have lost an estimated $2 trillion in their own private retirement plans during the past 15 months.Walker told reporters that much like the Wall Street CEOs who were in denial right up to the point that their firms faced collapse, elected officials are also in denial about the impending crash of the 'entitlement market.' The shame of this is that Social Security and Medicare in many ways represent the best of what our nation can do for its people, particularly its aging citizens. The human toll of allowing those programs to collapse would be unfathomable. Yet Walker is right, even if such programs are too important to fail, they will also be too large to bail (out) if our leaders wait until disaster is imminent.It might not seem fair to ask a presidential candidate who faces the prospects of inheriting a shattered economy, two wars and massive government debt what he proposes to do to turn the tide on Social Security and Medicare. But the problems are such that we can't afford to wait, nor can we afford a leader unwilling to confront and discuss the problem.Through two debates, neither John McCain nor Barack Obama has really tackled this issue with anything more than a promise to tackle it. Considering what is at stake, they owe us more than that. We don't want to hear what's wrong with the other guy's plan, nor do we need to be reminded of where President Bush's plan for people to begin investing their Social Security funds. We need to know what they believe can be done soon and done effectively to stave off yet another fiscal disaster.
