Seeking to revive his campaign's flagging fortunes, Republican John Kennedy turned his focus to the nation's sagging economy Wednesday as he and Democrat Mary Landrieu met for the third of four scheduled debates in their race for the U.S. Senate. The candidates also traded barbs on campaign fundraising, health care, the war in Iraq, energy policy and congressional earmarks during their hourlong debate at the University of New Orleans. Kennedy, the state treasurer making his second bid for a Senate seat after finishing in third place while running as a Democrat four years ago, presented himself as the candidate best-equipped to handle the current economic crisis. He laid out a four-point plan consisting of tax cuts and spending discipline combined with increased regulation of the financial markets. 'Be concerned, be angry, but don't be scared,' Kennedy said. 'Our economy is sick. It has a really bad case of the flu.' Landrieu, who is seeking her third term in the Senate, continued to stress her growing seniority in the upper chamber of Congress and her ability to deliver federal dollars for hurricane protection, colleges and universities, and disaster relief. 'I'm seeking re-election based on a record of effective leadership, of accomplishments, of independence, of always putting the state first,' Landrieu said. The debate was co-sponsored by WDSU-TV, the League of Women Voters of New Orleans and the National Council of Jewish Women. --- Seizing on economy --- Landrieu was viewed as the Senate's most vulnerable Democratic incumbent heading into the current election cycle. But polling in the race has shown Kennedy trailing Landrieu by double digits, and Wednesday brought reports that the National Republican Senatorial Committee has decided to pull its advertisements from Louisiana starting next week. Facing increasingly long odds, Kennedy appeared to signal a tactical shift heading into the final 20 days before the Nov. 4 election. In recent debates, Kennedy has wasted few opportunities to tie his candidacy to that of Sen. John McCain, the GOP presidential nominee who is expected to carry Louisiana next month. But McCain's name never came up during Wednesday's debate, nor did that of Democratic standard-bearer Sen. Barack Obama. Instead, the candidates turned their attention to the national economic crisis and state-specific concerns such as coastal restoration and offshore drilling. Although Landrieu voted against the $700 billion financial bailout package approved by Congress this month and Kennedy opposed it, the candidates differed on how to fix the financial mess. Kennedy said the crisis can be resolved without taxpayer money by allowing banks to value their assets differently and by making a serious effort to balance the federal budget. He said he favors new regulations that would prevent financial-services firms from growing so large that a bankruptcy can shake the entire economy, as happened when Lehman Bros. went belly-up and insurance giant AIG required two government bailouts to remain solvent. Landrieu said that although she opposed the overall bailout package, she supports some elements of the bill as it's now being implemented by the Bush administration. She cited the government's decision to guarantee loans between banks as well as using taxpayer dollars to buy stock in financial institutions as moves that could help ease the crisis. While Kennedy spoke specifically to the financial crisis, Landrieu steered the discussion to health care and energy policy, arguing that any economic solution must include reforms in those two areas. --- Fundraising barbs --- Some of the sharpest exchanges of the debate occurred over congressional earmarks and campaign fundraising. When the candidates had the chance to ask each other questions, Landrieu used hers to question Kennedy about more than $300,000 in donations he has received as treasurer from individuals and companies with business before the State Bond Commission, which Kennedy oversees. She implied that the contributions were improper because Kennedy is the sole arbiter of which projects appear on the commission's agenda. 'There's a lot of talk around Louisiana about how you get on that agenda,' Landrieu said. Kennedy responded by citing the six-figure sums that Landrieu's campaign has collected from the financial services industry over the years, including some of the companies now in line for taxpayer help. 'Sen. Landrieu criticizing my fundraising is a little like being called vain by Donald Trump,' Kennedy said. Another clash occurred on government earmarks, with Landrieu defending her efforts to bring home federal dollars and Kennedy criticizing many congressional earmarks as frivolous. 'As long as I'm in the Senate, I'm going to get every dollar I can to restore our coast,' Landrieu said, citing legislation she helped pass that gives Louisiana a share of outer continental shelf oil-drilling royalties starting in 2017. Kennedy said the earmark-laden bills that Landrieu has supported also included money for things such as fruit-fly research and the Cowgirl Hall of Fame. . . . . . . . Jan Moller can be reached at jmoller@timespicayune.com or 225.342.5207. 
