 McCain pins hopes on high-stakes debate   (217) Do you watch the presidential debates?Yes, I use them to find out where the candidates stand.Yes, but only to watch the candidates not address the issues.No - I already know who I am voting forThe electoral process makes me sick.I watch the highlights on SNL.See the results without voting .RelatedKnoxville Twitter users on the election . Also how you can participate.Paul Chenoweth photos documenting preparations  at BelmontElection 2008STORY TOOLSRELATED STORIESRelated LinksMore Election NewsShare and Enjoy [?]Get ReprintsWant to use this article? Click here for options!WASHINGTON - Republican John McCain readied for a high-stakes debate Tuesday night with Barack Obama that offers one of his last best chances to halt the Democrat's recent surge in the increasingly vitriolic race.The debate's town hall format  which will include questions on both domestic and foreign policy raised by audience members at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee, and voters participating through the Internet  is McCain's favorite style of campaigning. The second of three presidential debates comes just four weeks before the Nov. 4 election.Despite voters' rising anxiety about the U.S. financial meltdown, the candidates are also likely to go after each other on character issues, which McCain and his running mate Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin have forcefully re-injected into the campaign since the weekend.As McCain's poll standings fell along with the economy, his campaign began the new character criticisms and used Palin to spearhead the push. Obama's campaign didn't wait long to respond by resurrecting McCain's links to a financial scandal two decades ago.Obama and McCain faced cameras Monday with harsh words for each other. Obama, taking a break from debate preparations in Asheville, North Carolina, accused McCain's campaign of 'smear tactics' to distract voters.Obama told reporters McCain was not paying enough attention to the economic crisis gripping the country. The first-term Illinois senator said he could not 'imagine anything more important to talk about' than Americans' losing their jobs, health care and homes.In Albuquerque, New Mexico, McCain delivered an unusually scathing broadside. He accused Obama of lying about McCain's efforts to regulate the home loan industry. And he suggested Obama is a mysterious figure who cannot be trusted.'Who is the real Barack Obama?' McCain said to a cheering crowd. 'Ask such questions and all you get in response is another barrage of angry insults.'Brookings Institution political scientist Thomas E. Mann said he had felt for months that McCain 'would eventually have to try to undermine Obama as an acceptable choice for president and commander in chief.' Key issues, he said, including 'an economy in turmoil, an unpopular war and a politically discredited president are working powerfully against McCain and the Republican Party in general.'Obama, meanwhile, has learned the lessons of Michael Dukakis and John Kerry. Those Democrats lost presidential elections after hesitating to counter hard-hitting and factually dubious attacks on their character and judgment.'We don't throw the first punch, but we'll throw the last,' Obama said Monday on Tom Joyner's syndicated radio show.The vitriol increased dramatically over the weekend when Palin said Obama sees America as so imperfect 'that he's palling around with terrorists who would target their own country,' a reference to 1960s-era radical Bill Ayers.Ayers helped found the violent Weather Underground group, whose members were blamed for several bombings when Obama was 8 years old. Obama has denounced Ayers' radical views and activities.Obama and Ayers live near each other in Chicago, and once worked on the same charity board. Ayers hosted a small, meet-the-candidate event for Obama in 1995, at the start of his political career, but multiple news accounts have said they are not close. The Obama campaign called Palin's remarks outrageous and grossly exaggerated.The Obama campaign responded by e-mailing a 13-minute Web 'documentary' about McCain's involvement with convicted thrift owner Charles Keating, calling the episode 'a window into McCain's economic past, present and future.'Just months into his Senate career, in the late 1980s, McCain made what he has called 'the worst mistake of my life.' He participated in two meetings with banking regulators on behalf of Keating, a friend, campaign contributor and savings and loan financier who was later convicted of securities fraud.The Senate ethics committee investigated five senators' relationships with Keating. It cited McCain for a lesser role than the others, but faulted his 'poor judgment.'McCain's criticism of Obama's link to Ayers has prompted more scrutiny of the Republican's past associations, including his past connections to a private group that supplied aid to guerrillas seeking to overthrow the leftist government of Nicaragua in the Iran-Contra affair.The U.S. Council for World Freedom was part of an international organization linked to former Nazi collaborators and ultra-right-wing death squads in Central America. The group was dedicated to stamping out communism around the globe.The council's founder, retired Army Maj. Gen. John Singlaub, said McCain became associated with the organization in the early 1980s as McCain was launching his political career in Arizona. Singlaub said McCain was a supporter but not an active member in the group.Meanwhile, the newest TV ad from the Obama campaign released Tuesday plays up widespread reports that McCain's focus on the Democrat's past associations is an effort to turn the discussion away from the economy. 'As Americans lose their jobs, homes and savings, it's time for a president who'll change the economy, not change the subject,' says the ad.With early voting already under way in some states, McCain desperately needs to stem Obama's momentum, but his attacks on the Democrat's character risk alienating the dwindling bloc of undecided voters.As the mudslinging intensified, the most recent Gallup Poll daily tracking survey showed Obama up by 8 percentage points, 50-42. It was the tenth day in a row that Obama has held a statistically significant lead in the poll 'and the longest for either candidate at any point in the campaign,' the Gallup organization said.New polls also showed Obama ahead in the battleground states of Ohio and Wisconsin, and even with McCain in Indiana.Palin was likely to press her attacks on Obama at campaign stops Tuesday in Florida and North Carolina, two Republican-leaning states where McCain is trying to fend off a stiff challenge from Obama.Tuesday's informal town hall-style debate is McCain's signature  one way he built his 'Straight Talk' reputation by interacting with voters in the 2000 campaign and then pulled himself out of single digits to win this year's Republican primary.Obama has used the town hall format sporadically throughout his campaign, but not recently. Instead the Democratic nominee has carefully protected his lead with a highly scripted campaign style. 2008, The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.219 CommentsPosted by ElvisKin on October 7, 2008 at 7:34 a.m.Expect McSame to attack personally instead of discussing the issues of the economy, healthcare insurance, tax cuts for the S &amp;amp; P 500 companies, and the Fortune 500 individuals, and the Iraqi war.These are th things Americans care about.(Suggest removal)Posted by UncleRico on October 7, 2008 at 7:51 a.m.in response to ElvisKinHe has turned into the classic Rovian Republican. Manage the news cycles by smearing your opponent and thus avoiding the issues that voters should really care about.If all of you undecided voters out there like what you've gotten over the last 71/2 years, just vote McCain. If not, vote Obama.(Suggest removal)Posted by beancntr29 on October 7, 2008 at 8:04 a.m.InSane McCain and Space Girl have nothing to offer on how to help solve today's problems, so all they can due is a smear campaign with lies and half-truths. Eberyhting they accuse Obama of they are guilty of themselves in some fashion, but of course that doesn't get mentioned. McCain and his friendship and involvement with Keating, and Palin and her family's 2008 ties with AIP -- and let's not forget troopergate, which they are fighting to have the investigation and report stopped.(Suggest removal)Posted by beancntr29 on October 7, 2008 at 8:06 a.m.You'll have to excuse the typo's - it's early!(Suggest removal)Posted by jkbigrig on October 7, 2008 at 8:12 a.m.Senator McCain, as you look out at the 'Desperate Landscapes' that your campaign is confronted with in preparation for the Nashville debate, consider that in August, 2008 you referred to Senator Obama as a 'very honorable opponent'. Consider also that this is one of your last opportunities to speak before the entire nation as a presidential candidate.This is not the forum to 'go negative' on your opponent (by the way, 'that dog, don't hunt'). Prove that you are worthy to be the next president by providing a positive message. Why should we vote for you? How will you address the significant challenges our nation faces in the next four years? You want to continue the war in Iraq ($10 billion a month) until we can come home in victory. Your hero, General Petraeus has said, 'This is not the sort of struggle where you take a hill, plant the flag and go home to a victory parade... it's not war with a simple slogan.'So Senator McCain, no simple slogans - give us a positive message and give us detailed solutions. Good luck in the debate.(Suggest removal)Posted by beancntr29 on October 7, 2008 at 8:43 a.m.Maybe he'll be 'mavericky' - isn't that Palin new terminology - or was that from SNL?(Suggest removal)Posted by Etacovda_00 on October 7, 2008 at 8:50 a.m.preview(Suggest removal)Posted by imwiththebanned7 on October 7, 2008 at 9:01 a.m.McCon due to explode and show himself, his true shades of repubLIEcon red. He's one mean an...
