I can't bear to look at my 401(k) this week. Like millions of Americans, I've seen my account bleed out and disappear down the drain. Every dollar I've transfused into my retirement fund this year is gone, and more besides.Is this an economic 9/11? Most of us knew next to nothing about al-Qaeda in September 2001; most of us today know next to nothing about 'derivatives,' 'short-selling' and 'credit default swaps.' I don't want to overplay the 9/11 metaphor. Nobody has been killed. There are no smoldering pits where buildings once rose from lower Manhattan.But now, as then, I feel like I'm wandering in the fog of war. How bad is this credit crisis? I don't know. I've read more about credit markets in the last two weeks than I have in the past 40 years. What have I learned? Smart people disagree. Not only about the size of the bailout that would have taxpayers buy 'toxic' subprime mortgages, but also about the need for a bailout of any sort. There are other, less risky, ways to 're-capitalize' the markets, critics say.I was right there with millions of others who were dismayed and outraged at the first bailout proposal, coming just days after taxpayers coughed up $85 billion to buy out AIG, the insurance behemoth.. The same people who told us a few months ago that extending health insurance to more children was too costly, demanded $700 billion to bail out financial institutions that, by rights, should have to deal with the consequences of their own poor judgment. And they wanted all the money to go to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, no strings attached, no oversight, no court review. Even if you trust the Bush administration completely, wouldn't that pretty much mean the end of democratic government as we know it?And they said Congress had about three days to act or the world would end.It hasn't ended, although the markets and congressional leadership seem to be melting down in tandem. Maybe there's still time. Or maybe not.President Bush, unable even to persuade a majority of the Texas House delegation to support the bailout, carries about as much clout in Washington as the Flat Earth Society. Despite John McCain's claims to the contrary, neither he nor Barack Obama is in a position to broker a solution in the middle of a presidential campaign. As the markets tumble.On Monday, the stock market lost $1.2 trillion. Then it bounced back. But not all the way. It's down more than $4 trillion for the year. And with most of us now holding a stake in the market - with pension funds, 401(k) accounts or mutual funds - that loss is widely shared and felt.I don't know about you, but I have the same feeling of unease I had after 9/11. Have we seen the worst of this? Or not. Whose advice should we trust? Does anyone really know what to do next? I think something has to be done - or mortgages, student loans, car loans, small-business loans will all disappear. Cash strapped companies will lay off workers. More dominoes will fall.This may not be the Great Depression, but one thing we learned from that global crash is that when markets collapse, and economies go south, politics turns nasty - and bad people, pandering to widespread fear, take power.So I don't know what to do, or what to think, or how worried I should be. I think I should learn a lot more about the economy. For now, I hope the people who are making the decision get it right. But I'm far from confident they will.
