Some of the most difficult choices voters will face at the polls Tuesday are, ironically, in races that sometimes most directly affect their lives - races for local judgeships.The choices are tough because voters often have little information about the candidates. These are not high-profile, high-spending campaigns, and judicial ethics keep candidates from being overly partisan or from giving specifics on how each would rule on cases.Choosing between judicial candidates often comes down to a matter of resumes and temperaments.What makes the choice far easier, unfortunately, is that there usually is no choice at all. In all but three of the 14 judge races in Hamilton County on Tuesday, candidates are running unopposed. That's a chronic, disgraceful problem.But there's at least one good way for voters to see how local judge candidates stack up against each other this fall - the Cincinnati Bar Association's 2008 Judicial Poll, in which 17 candidates for judgeships on the Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas and Ohio Court of Appeals have been rated on characteristics that are crucial to good work on the bench.The ratings, CBA president Philip J. Schworer said, were done by 'those who know the candidates best' - 452 area attorneys who have personally observed or worked with the candidates during the past four years.Candidates were judged 'excellent,' 'good,' 'fair' or 'poor' in each of four areas: integrity, character and objectivity; legal experience, knowledge and ability; respect for and courtesy to litigants, counsel and witnesses; and diligence.How did they rate? As The Enquirer reported Wednesday, most of the candidates did quite well, with combined 'good' and 'excellent' rating percentages in the 80s and 90s. Republican Beth Myers was the high scorer with upper 90s across the board, followed very closely by Democrat Jody Luebbers and Republican Ethna Marie Cooper. All are sitting Commons Pleas judges.In the three contested races, the most striking result was the low rating given to Republican Pat DeWine, who is running against Democrat Norma J.H. Davis for a Common Pleas seat. His scores were in the high 70s and 80s, but DeWine was by far the lowest in all categories of any candidate, scoring in the 40s. Republican Fred Nelson, an incumbent Common Pleas judge, scored somewhat higher than his Democratic challenger, Jerry Metz. Democrat Luebbers, appointed to the bench in June and running to fill an unexpired term, ranked ahead of her opponent, Republican Russell Mock.The CBA poll can help give voters a better feel for the judge candidates, but remember - these are only numbers that represent a group of attorneys' admittedly subjective experiences. And it is only one tool among many - adding to candidates' Web sites, ads, position papers, endorsements and campaign appearances.We hope voters, amid all the noise of the higher-profile campaigns, will take some time to study the information and choose thoughtfully.
