Candidates fight over fiscal crisisE-Mail PrintComments(0)Text Size:tool nametool goes hereNASHVILLE, Tenn. -- Reaching out to an anxious nation, John McCain and Barack Obama vied in a spirited debate Tuesday over who'd be the better steward of an economy in crisis.'Americans are angry, they're upset, and they're a little fearful,' McCain said at the outset of a pressure-packed debate. 'It's our job to fix the problem. Now, I have a plan to fix this problem.''You need somebody in Washington working for you,' Obama told voters huddled in a town-hall meeting and millions more watching at home.With stock markets plummeting, the economy dominated questions posed by voters both inside the town hall style session and over the Internet.Participants in the 90-minute meeting were 80 undecided voters from the Nashville area selected by the Gallup polling organization. The debate, held at Belmont University, was moderated by NBC's Tom Brokaw.Right from the start, the two men worked to show that they understand voters' worries, to stress that they know how to fix problems on Wall Street and in the federal budget, and to blame the other for contributing to the economic problems or proposing changes that would make problems worse.McCain said his plan would shore up the economy by keeping taxes low, pushing energy independence and ordering the Treasury Department to buy up bad mortgages to shore up home values.'It's my proposal,' he said. 'It's not Senator Obama's proposal, it's not President Bush's proposal.'Obama called for tax cuts for the middle class, help for homeowners to stay in their homes, and help for local governments to build bridges and other infrastructure improvements to create jobs. Longer term, he said, he would work to expand health care and improve energy independence.He called the financial bailout approved by Congress - with support from both major party candidates - a first step.Yet he all but acknowledged some of the fears many Americans have about bailing out Wall Street, noting reports of a $400,000 junket taken by executives of the failed insurance giant AIG just a week after the company was rescued by the government.'The Treasury should demand that money back, and those executives should be fired,' Obama said.McCain said he'd tried to rein in mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac two years ago - saying their home lending policies were 'the match that started this forest fire' - but that Obama and other Democrats had blocked his efforts. He said Obama got heavy campaign contributions from the two mortgage-lending giants.Obama said he 'never promoted' Fannie and Freddie, then changed the subject by noting that voters don't like the blame game. 'You're not interested in hearing politicians point fingers,' Obama said.But he too went on the attack early, blaming McCain and the Republican Party for the crisis, calling it 'a final verdict on the failed economic policies of the last eight years.'McCain ripped Obama for proposing to raise some taxes, noting that the last president to raise taxes in the face of a similar economic crisis was Herbert Hoover.'Let's not raise anybody's taxes,' McCain said.McCain also suggested that Obama would renege on his promise of a middle-class tax cut, saying he promised one as a candidate for the Senate but then never proposed one as a senator.'Let's be clear,' Obama countered. 'I want to provide a tax cut for 95 percent of Americans.' He stressed that his plan would cut taxes for those making less than $200,000 a year and raise them only on those making more than $250,000.Obama also said McCain's plan would give the average Fortune 500 corporate CEO a tax cut of $700,000. 'That is not fair, and it doesn't work,' Obama said.The two also clashed over their health care plans.Obama said McCain was going to require taxes on the health benefits workers receive from their employers at the same time his plan would wipe out the ability of states to enforce their own regulations to require tests such as mammograms.McCain countered that under his rival's plan 'Sen. Obama will fine you' if parents fail to obtain coverage for their children but had yet to say what the fine would be. 'Perhaps we will find that out tonight,' he said.Turning to foreign affairs, Obama bluntly challenged McCain's steadiness. 'This is a guy who sang bomb, bomb, bomb Iran, who called for the annihilation of North Korea - that I don't think is an example of speaking softly.'That came after McCain accused him of foolishly threatening to invade Pakistan and said, 'I'm not going to telegraph my punches, which is what Senator Obama did.'
