CORNING -- Democrat Eric Massa on Tuesday rejected a proposal by incumbent Republican John R. Kuhl Jr. to solve the nation's financial crisis by providing federal insurance for loans made by troubled institutions.Under Kuhl's plan, Massa said, 'the American taxpayer has 100 percent of the burden (when companies fail) and when they profit the American taxpayers get nothing.' Massa, who is challenging Kuhl in the 29th Congressional District race, responded Tuesday afternoon to a plan Kuhl announced in a news conference call Tuesday morning.Kuhl, who voted against the administration's $700 billion bailout plan Monday, said he prefers a solution similar to that employed in the 1980s during the savings and loan crisis.He said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. should offer a government guarantee for loans made to businesses and consumers by financial institutions that have an established net worth. 'If it looks like they have a net worth, the FDIC is going to say go ahead and loan and we'll guarantee the loan,' Kuhl said. 'There is no real money exchanged. You're not offering money, you're just offering credit.' Massa said Kuhl's proposal offers a '100 percent guarantee' to financial institutions that would leave the American taxpayer holding the bag if those institutions fail. 'This is not a fabricated crisis or a minor issue,' Massa said. 'The largest insurance company in America (AIG) just went bankrupt.' Kuhl dismissed the notion that he voted against the bailout to distance himself from President Bush during the campaign against Massa. 'That's absurd,' he said. 'This may have been a Band-Aid approach to stability. The Band-Aid could have fallen off this huge gash tomorrow. It didn't provide any structural reform.' Both Kuhl and Massa said Congress needs to get back to work immediately on a new package. 'I'm calling on leaders to bring us back as quickly as they can,' Kuhl said. 'There's no reason why we can't be back in Washington on Thursday and come up with an alternative and acceptable proposal.' Massa said the finger-pointing that followed the defeat of the bailout bill is unproductive.
