 It might be easy for banks to get a financial bail out from the Government when they fall on hard times, but it won't be so easy for consumers to do the same, warns PPI lobbyist Sara-Ann Burgess from Burgesses. Sara-Ann's comments follow news that RBS, Barclays and Lloyds TSB met Chancellor Alistair Darling this week to discuss fundraising' or rescue plan proposals. She queries: 'It's all very well being able to secure billions of pounds of extra funding from the Government during these recession-hit times, but will customers struggling to meet their debts secure the same financial lifelines?' With the UK economy already in recession and predictions that unemployment could rise by 350,000 next year and top the two million mark, consumers are being urged to guarantee their own financial bail out via Payment Protection Insurance. Sara-Ann continues: 'No other insurance product offers a financial lifeline in the same way. It will pay out should you lose your job, become sick or have an accident, and meet your monthly debts for up to a year. There are a wide range of providers offering PPI and it's acknowledged that the most competitive premiums can be sourced via independent firms where costs are often 10 x cheaper for loan protection, four times for mortgage and five times for income.' Standalone provider British Insuranceoffers cover that's been awarded five stars by specialist researchers and is sourced using A-rated insurers. Prices for loan, mortgage and income protection start at GBP3.40 per GBP100 of unemployment cover and GBP3.90 for accident, sickness and unemployment. Sara-Ann concludes: 'Every day we're hearing that share prices are falling, profits are slumping and job losses are looming. Already this week LSUK has announced 680 redundancies, Focus DIY 750 and Accenture 400 and the British Chamber of Commerce tells us confidence has collapsed in the manufacturing and service sectors. 'The economic slump will continue to spiral out of control and whilst no one should sell their products through fear, the statistics are compelling. Everyones job is at risk and consumers need a self-help financial package to support them should something happen to interrupt their income. The Government and banks won't bail them out, so they should turn to independent PPI providers.' About Burgesses Burgesses is owned and operated by Sara-Ann Burgess who has over 30 years' experience in the field of protection insurance. Sara-Ann Burgess is a leading authority on payment protection insurance and is a recognised consumer champion, campaigning for fairness, value and honesty in the payment protection insurance market.  (M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2 PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com). 
