The recent turn of the economy in the past week is inevitably going to affect every single industry in the United States. Since the government has decided to bail out many corporations, we are going to see in a small amount of time the negative effects of this decision. Many people are debating whether the decision by the government to bail out companies such as AIG was the right decision. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. talked about the decision of the government and stated, I hate the fact that we have to do it, but its better than the alternative. In thinking about the alternative, would it really be that bad. So lets get this straight, the government decided to issue a bail out costing them $700 billion dollars so that these insurance corporation would not default on their lending. For example if the government did not bail out AIG, their investors would be seeing the major brunt of their downfall. Their investors would have lost all backings of their securities causing a lack of security from their investment. Wait a minute, isnt investing all about risk, dont investors know that. Even if AIG guaranteed to back their securities there is still some risk in purchasing this type of insurance. If the government let these companies fail, yes many investors and large companies would be in the red, but wouldnt that teach them a lesson. However, if the government continues on a continues to back all corporations that may go under the daily practices that managers and CEOs of large corporations are going to take on more risk because they know they will be bailed out by the government.In talking about specific industries, lets use the medical industry as an example. Taxpayers now own AIG, what does that say about the coverage for medical malpractice insurance? Before last weeks events took place there was a freeze put on medical malpractice insurance premiums by the government so that they could assess the bigger issues of why it was increasing at an alarming rate. Now that the government has had to bail out AIG, insurance premiums of medical malpractice are bound to increase at an alarming rate again. Taxpayers are not going to console medical professionals for the large amount of insurance premiums they have to pay because the Taxpayers own the insurance company. And when a doctor commits an act of medical malpractice, there is no way there are going to sympathize with those who committed the act. For the medical malpractice was probably committed on a loved one of theirs.Thus the events have impacted every last industry, definitely causing a stir in medical malpractice. Medical professionals must be aware of this issue and practice their craft with the utmost care and responsibility. If you or a loved one has been harmed by medical malpractice, contact a medical malpractice lawyer as soon as possible. For the economy is only going to make it harder for anyone to gain settlements.Article Source: http://www.marketingarticlebank.comPaul Justice gives advice to clients who are looking for attorneys to handle injury related cases such as Medical malpractice, automobile accidents. To know more about the services of malpractice lawyer,medical malpractice New Jersey, personal injury lawyer and New York attorneys visit www.nbrlawfirm.comPlease Rate this ArticleNot yet RatedUnderstanding the need for a good Brooklyn construction accident lawyer - By : Paul JusticeMedical Malpractice Long Island Cases can be Lengthy, Costly, &amp;amp; Emotionally Draining but they can gain much needed Compensation when Successful - By : Paul JusticeHow to Avoid Medical Malpractice in Bronx with the right tools - By : Paul JusticePhiladelphia Auto Accident Lawyer Names Distracting Driving Behaviors as a Main Cause of Auto Accidents - By : Paul JusticeBrooklyn construction accident lawyers are willing to fight for their clients - By : Paul JusticeMedical Malpractice Manhattan Contributes to Racial Profiling in Hospitals - By : Paul JusticeWhy Are Things That Are Supposed To Be Helping Us Hurting Us? Contact Marc J Bern, NYC Lawyer - By : Paul JusticeMedical Malpractice New Jersey: Sorry Works - By : Paul JusticeAn occurrence of medical malpractice can haunt the victim Says Malpractice Lawyer - By : Paul JusticeMedical Malpractice in NYC Stems from Same Logic in the China Tainted Baby Formula Scandal - By : Paul Justice
