Today is national Child Health Day and this year it comes less than 30 days before Kentucky's 2008 election. This presents an opportunity to ensure that Kentucky's candidates for office are aware that children are not just little adults, but instead have special developmental needs and concerns.Since children do not vote, they rely upon adults to pay attention to their needs. So, just how are children doing in Kentucky?Due to the current economic downturn, rising health care prices, and drastic increases in the price of gas and food, the health and well being of Kentucky's children is in danger of heading down a negative path. In fact, according to UNICEF, American children rank 20 out of 21 nations in measures of child health and well-being. And with regard to infant mortality, one of the most basic and fundamental measures of how our children are faring throughout the world, the United States ranks near the bottom among industrialized nations.Worse, there are 82,000 children living without health insurance, a fundamental need for all children to grow up healthy. Nationwide, 8.2 million children live without health insurance. Over the past 40 years, childhood obesity rates have more than tripled, a growing problem that will likely lead to chronic and costly health problems as children get older. And more than 215,000 Kentucky children live in poverty, which we know jeopardizes their health and well-being. Across America, more than 13 million children are living in poverty, and recent census data indicates that number is on the rise.And in Kentucky, more than 15,500 children will lose their home as a result of the recent foreclosure crisis, which leads to disruptions that recent research has shown adversely impact a child's education as well as issues relating to their physical and mental health. So, how have our nation's leaders responded? In just the last five years, Congress and the President have actually reduced the federal share of investments for our nation's children by an astounding 10 percent. No comprehensive plan to combat infant mortality or childhood obesity has been adopted. Adding insult to injury, the President twice vetoed legislation that would have cut the uninsured rate for children in half. Workable solutions have been put forth but are all too often ignored. Thus, on Child Health Day, we should ask Kentucky's candidates for the House and Senate and the candidates for president to provide us with a real plan to address the needs of our nation's children.BRUCE LESLEYFirst FocusWashington, D.C. 20005
