By Olzhas Auyezov    ALMATY, Dec 10 (Reuters) - Kazakhstan sought to reassure investors on Wednesday that none of its banks would default on foreign debt although some bilateral loans may be restructured.    Central bank Governor Anvar Saidenov said he was confident none of the local banks would default on its obligations.    'No one is saying they (banks) are refusing to pay off their debt,' he told a news briefing, adding that banks were due to repay a total of $10.6 billion in foreign debt next year.    Kazakhstan has been hit hard by the financial crisis and has announced a $21 billion package -- equivalent to 20 percent of gross domestic product -- to help its oil-fuelled economy.    The government is particularly worried about $40 billion of total foreign debt owed by Kazakh banks as credit conditions become tighter and bank asset quality continues to erode.    Prime Minister Karim Masimov sparked a flurry of speculation last week when he said investors would have to share some of the losses incurred by banks. He gave no clarification at the time.    Kairat Kelimbetov, head of the sovereign welfare fund Samruk-Kazyna, added to the confusion on Tuesday, saying banks should restructure foreign debt, without giving details.    Analysts described these moves as 'a trial balloon' launched by the government to test the market reaction and said they wanted to see more clarity and consistency in state policies.    'We believe that this (broader restructuring) is just one of the possibilities, albeit extremely unlikely, being considered by the government as part of its wider policy response to the financial crisis,' Citibank said in a note.    Timothy Ash, an RBS analyst, said the authorities seemed to be split over how to deal with existing obligations, with the central bank playing a 'dovish' role towards foreign investors and the government adopting a more 'hardball attitude'.    VOLUNTARY    Saidenov said there would be no forced restructuring, adding that the government's idea was to put off some debt repayments to make sure its aid package trickles down into the wider economy instead of flowing out of the country.    He ruled out such rescheduling on Eurobonds and syndicated loans, saying it would be hard to negotiate such a deal due to the number of partners involved, and said it would concern only bilateral inter-bank credit.    He did not give any further details on the bilateral deals and could not estimate their value or proportion of total debt.    Kelimbetov, addressing reporters separately on Wednesday, said the partial restructuring scheme could involve four Kazakh banks but could not give any details.    'These negotiations are confidential. I think we should be able to announce results in January,' he said.    Despite government efforts to reassure investors, the cost of Kazakh bank credit default swaps, a financial tool used to insure debt against default, remain near record highs.    'It is relatively positive that the restructuring will not affect the bond market, since a bond restructuring would be very disruptive for the credit and CDS markets more broadly,' Goldman Sachs said in a note.    Analysts say banks have raised short-term bilateral loans to refinance maturing debt at a time when Eurobonds and syndicated loans were not available at reasonable prices.    (additional reporting by Masha Gordeyeva; Writing by Maria Golovnina; Editing by Victoria Main) Keywords: KAZAKHSTAN DEBT/    (maria.golovnina@reuters.com; +7 727 250 85 00; Reuters Messaging: maria.golovnina.reuters.com@reuters  .net)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
