MyECheck, Inc. (MYEC.OB) Establishes Alliance to Strategically Improve Operations MyECheck, Inc. has established a number of strategic alliances with Internet payment gateways and payments software and service providers for partnership and reseller opportunities. Emphasis has been placed on building sales channels through these partnerships. The company has experienced early success with Cardinal Commerce and has been in discussions with other qualified Value Added Resellers and Payment Service Provides including:  AspDotNetStorefront.com, a division of Discovery Products, Inc., provides online e-commerce shopping cart platforms for over 3,000 merchants and developer partners.  ConsumerDirect is linked to more than 95% of creditors in the United States, giving its clients a faster and more effective way to fix credit report problems.  Secure Payment Systems profiles transactions using proprietary shopping pattern algorithms and continuously updates this database with check writing histories.  TransFirst is owned by Welsh, Carson, Anderson &amp; Stowe, whose processing partners include Money Tree Services, Bank of America Merchant Services, Fifth Third Bank Processing Solutions, Payment Resources International, DPI Merchant Services, and Pulse Card.  Everpay Merchant Services specializes in electronic payment processing and total electronic business solutions, with real personalized assistance. The company has over 20 years of combined experience in the credit card and debit solutions business.  Secure Payment Systems (SPS), a unique information services company that specializes in the needs of small and midsize retailers, was partnered with for check authorization and check guarantee services. The combined MyECheck and SPS solution enables MyECheck merchants to ship the same day with confidence that they will be paid, even if their customers check bounces.  National Cash Management Systems (NCMS), the national leader in the sales and marketing of ACH and related payment-acceptance services, together with MyECheck will offer a cost-effective ACH alternative that is more merchant-friendly than ACH acceptance, while being less expensive than credit cards.  AE Checking provides merchant-controlled payment schedule processing, flexible redeposit scheduling to provide higher collection rates, and a customer service interface developed for merchant specifications.
