SILENCE will fall tomorrow as the sacrifices of our war dead are remembered across Worcestershire and Herefordshire.  A series of parades and church services are being held this Sunday, which falls shortly before the 90th anniversary of the end of the First World War in 1918.  The parades and services are held in memory of those who made the ultimate sacrifice, be it in the Second World War or, more recently, in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Worcester The Remembrance Sunday Service will start in Worcester Cathedral at 9.45am tomorrow.  This will be followed at 10.45am by a civic service of remembrance at the memorial in College Street.  The civic service will finish at 11.15am when the cathedral bells will be rung.  Claines The Claines parade will assemble on the corner of St Annes Road and Cornmeadow Lane at 10am and will move off at 10.20am for the march to Claines Church where wreaths will be laid at the war memorial. This will happen before the service inside the church at 11am.  Claines Scouts and Guides Group will join the parade as it passes the Scout HQ. The parade will re-assemble in Claines Lane outside the church at noon for the march back to the Royal British Legion Club where it will be dismissed at 12.30pm.  There will also be an Act of Remembrance in St Stephens Church during evensong.  St Johns &amp;amp; Hallow The St Johns Parade will assemble at 9.30am around Powells Row off Malvern Road, next to Barclays Bank.  Royal British Legion members and youth organisation members are expected to attend the parade, which will move off at 9.40am to St Johns Church for a 10am service.  An 11am service will follow at the war memorial in the church grounds. At about 11.45am the parade will return to Powells Row via Bromyard Road and Malvern Road for dismissal.  There will also be an Act of Remembrance at Hallow Church during evensong Ombersley &amp;amp; Doverdale Church services will be held after the 9.15am service at Doverdale and at Ombersley about 11am. In Ombersley, the parade will assemble near the Crown and Sandys car park at 10.35am ready to march at 10.40am for the service at the war memorial at 10.50am followed by the service in St Andrews Church at about 11am.  Powick and Callow End At Powick the parade will assemble at the Red Lion Car Park at 10.30am for the march off at 10.40am.  The service will then begin at St Peters Church, Powick, at 10.45am.  At Callow End the parade will assemble at the village hall at 2.10pm for the march off at 2.20pm. The service begins at St James Church at around 2.30pm.  Pershore and district branch The parade will assemble in the High Street car park at 10.20am before moving off at 10.30am.  It will then move to the Abbey via High Street, Broad Street, Church Walk and Church Row.  The service in the abbey begins at 10.55am conducted by Father Kenneth Crawford and Father John Walsh.  Wreaths will be laid on the war memorial, including a poppy cross, made up of a poppy for each name on the war memorial.  The parade will reform at around noon and return via the reverse route to the High Street car park. On route the the salute will be taken in Broad Street by the centre flagpole.  Droitwich The parade will begin at the railway station at 10.45am before heading to the war memorial at Victoria Square for the ceremony at 11am.  Following the two-minute silence and wreath laying there will be a church service at St Andrews Church, beginning at about 11.30am.  Malvern The parade will form in Graham Road at 2.15pm before moving off to the war memorial at the library, also in Graham Road, for the two-minute silence and wreath laying-ceremony.  The Malvern Boys Brigade will play the Last Post and the Reveille. The standard bearer is Nick Daw, the son of a war veteran. A service will be held at the Priory Church in Church Street.  Evesham The parade will gather at 10.15am in Market Square before march off along Bridge Street to the war memorial in Abbey Park for 10.50am.  The ceremony will include a two-minute silence and the wreath-laying before the parade moves off to All Saints Church for the service.  
