Julie Curwin is a psychiatrist by day in Cape Breton, an award-winning author by night  Times &amp;amp; Transcript Staff  A Moncton native now living in Cape Breton won big last week as she was named the winner of the 2008 Commonwealth Short Story competition.  Julie Curwin's story World Backwards was selected as the best story from the Caribbean and Canada region of the Commonwealth and as the overall winning story from more than 1,700 entries from around the world.  Curwin, a psychiatrist with the Cape Breton District Health Authority, wrote the story last spring.  'The main character is an elderly woman who wants to put a few things to rest before she dies,' Julie wrote in an e-mail to the Times &amp;amp; Transcript last week from London, England, where she accepted the award.  'I wrote it last spring and it was inspired by a number of wonderful elderly patients that I've had the opportunity to work with over the years, people that have taught me a great deal about how to live authentically.'  The Commonwealth Short Story Competition began in 1996. It is funded by the Commonwealth Foundation and administered by the Commonwealth Broadcasting Association. The winning stories have been recorded on CD and distributed to broadcasting stations around the Commonwealth.  The CDs are available for sale from the CBA website, www.cba.org.uk.  The judges in the competition were writer Jaishree Mishra, author of Ancient Promises, Accidents like Love and Marriage and Afterwards, broadcaster Amber Barnfather, and Nigerian-born author and playwright Biyi Bandele.  Despite her busy profession, Julie has found time to write and has already won recognition for her fiction.  In 2007 her story The Other Side of the Window was selected as a finalist in The Writer's Union of Canada's Short Prose Competition for Developing Writers.  Julie was ecstatic with her big win last week, saying it has helped her think of herself as a writer instead of just a hobbyist.  'One of the stated goals of this competition is 'to encourage new writers to take writing more seriously and to consider pursuing writing as a career,' and it has certainly done that for me,' she explained.  'I'm not quite ready to give up the day job, but I have started to take my writing more seriously and to think of myself as a writer.'  Julie is currently working on a collection of short stories with medical themes.  Prior to taking up writing, the Moncton native, whose family still lives here, had a 10-year career as a professional long-distance triathlete, and she was a member of Canada's elite national team.  
