THIEVES used acetylene gas to cause explosions at four different ATMs across Sydney early today over two hours - and a passer-by was threatened with a firearm.  They targeted machines at Georges Hall, Milperra, Penshurst and Chatswood local shopping centres throughout the early hours of this morning.  The heists - all aimed at St George bank machines - are the latest in a string of ATM explosions across Australia recently.  'Like the wild west': Bank job  Sports car used: High-power heist   The thieves pumped acetylene gas into the ATMs and ignited them, exploding them from the wall and blowing their cash boxes from the machines.  But their attempt to rob the Chatswood ATM in the city's north failed, when the machine didn't ignite about 4am.  Members of the public disturbed four men at the Railway Street ATM on Tuesday morning, police said   One of the thieves threatened a man with a firearm, but no shots were fired.   The bandits failed to make off with any cash and were last seen travelling along Railway St in a dark sedan, possibly a grey Audi.   They were also interrupted by railway security guards, who saw three men wearing balaclavas, armed with handguns.  Railway Street at Chatswood was closed for several hours while bomb squad officers investigated.  Bomb squad and fire crews spent over an hour securing the area surrounding the Chatswood ATM before it was cleared for safety at around 8.15am.  Traffic was diverted and passengers accessing bus stops at Railway St, Chatswood were diverted during the operation.  Forensics teams are still examining the site, accessing the targetted ATM via surrounding buildings.Police state crime command will take over investigations.  The three other ATMs destroyed by explosives were in Sydney's south-west - at Bullecourt Ave in Milperra at 2.30am, Hay St in Georges Hall at 2.50am , and Penshurst Ave in Penshurst at 3.10am.   Police are calling for anyone with additional information to call Crime Stoppers on 1800 300 000.   At this stage they are not saying whether the criminals, believed to be three men, escaped with any money. 
