Important Announcement: The site of the Class A and Class C Super Bowls have been changed. The Class A game will be at Colonie (still Saturday at 7), and the Class C game will be at CBA (still Friday at 7). Its November again, which means its time for you to fulfill your civic duty, research the facts fully, and cast your vote for who you belive will win this weeks title game above. (Like you didnt see that coming). But seriously, Im kind of disappointed that the election is already here&amp;amp;it turns out that I enjoy following the election more than I care who wins it.  Class AA Super Bowl: Schenectady (8-1) vs La Salle (7-2) Havent we seen this before? La Salle visited Schenectady early in October, and the results were not good for the Cadets - . In the face of that score, this Super Bowl might not seem very competitive. But there are plenty of reasons why the Cadets can make this a battle. First and foremost, Marquis Terrell will not fumble the ball three times, as he did in the first meeting; Terrell was otherwise effective, picking up 188 yards on 23 carries, and the score would have been somewhat different had he held onto the ball. Secondly, Al Rapp and the LSI coaching staff has shown that they are one of the best coaching units in the area. (This does raise the question of why they were dominated so thoroughly at Schenectady earlier, but their entire body of work shows that they are very capable.) And finally, La Salle has proven over the past two years that one can never count them out of a playoff game. The Cadets are on a remarkable eight-game playoff winning streak, and two of them have been dramatic come-from-behind affairs: they looked completely beaten against Guilderland in last years Super Bowl (down 17-0) and in the semis last week at Saratoga (down 26-0), but came back both times to win. All these signs point to a closer contest than we had four weeks ago.  But at the same time, there are plenty of reasons for Schenectady fans to be very optimistic. La Salles comeback last week was fueled by QB Mike Murrays outstanding performance - 18 of 23 for 322 yards and three scores. But the Pats have had one of the sections best pass defenses, holding Murray to just five completions for 74 yards in their first meeting, and they are fresh off a dominating performance against the high-flying Nisky offense. Plus, you can bank on Marc Thompson to have a solid night - hes ran for over 100 yards every game since Opening Day. The Cadet defense just allowed Leejay Pollacchi to run for 333 yards last week, so theyll have to change things drastically to keep Thompson in check.   The key player in this game, in my mind, is Terrell. The way things are going, it seems likely that Schenectady jumps out to an early lead, and the Cadets fall into their familiar role playing from behind. Schenectady has too many offensive weapons (Thompson, Ottati, Seise, Brandon, Cooper, etc.) to shut down completely, but over the past three or four weeks, they havent been quite as dominating as they were early on, and could certainly be held to somewhere around 25-28 points. This puts the pressure on the Cadets to score some points, something they couldnt do in the first meeting. Given the way Schenectadys line and secondary played last weekend, it seems like their passing attack wont be enough to light up the scoreboard the way theyll need to. Terrell will have to get the ball and be productive if La Salle is to manage enough offense to upset the Patriots. This is as important for the La Salle coaching strategy as anybody - if they do get behind, they will need to keep getting the ball to Terrell.  So, will the Pats hoist their first-ever championship trophy, or will the Cadets repeat? Im sure Ill hear about this in the comments (the La Salle fans have been quite vocal the past couple days), but I think the new kid on the block will come out victorious. Schenectady just has too many ways to beat you, and they had the look of a dominating playoff team last week. The Prediction: Schenectady 31, La Salle 21.
