Cannoneers slow down powerful Horses for title  COLONIE  There is an old saying in sports: Offense sells tickets but defense wins championships.  Many in the large crowd may have come to see the potent Schuylerville offense in the Class C Super Bowl, but what they witnessed was a dominating performance by the Watervliet defense that nailed down the Cannoneers' eighth Section II championship with a 10-6 win Friday night at CBA's Evelyn Puleo Stadium.  Dom Diaz' one-yard run late in the first quarter and Caleb Gleason's 25-yard field goal midway through the second quarter were all the points Watervliet (8-2) would need as the Cannoneers' defense effectively shut down the vaunted Black Horses' running game to pull off the upset.  Schuylerville (9-1) entered the contest averaging 45 points per game but never was able to get its offense untracked. The Black Horses came into the game as the fourth-ranked Class C team in the state.  Watervliet held Schuylerville's offense to 12 yards on 12 plays in the first half. Of the game's first 24 minutes, Schuylerville had the ball for a total of 5 minutes, 55 seconds.  'They are the best running team in Section II,' Watervliet coach Erick Bernard said. 'Our kids stepped up tonight. They have such a great offense, we just had to control the clock and control the ball.'  When the Black Horses did have the ball, the Cannoneers' defensive front, led by Jeremy Lamarche, Joe Hughes, Justin Chludzinski and Justin Oravsky, kept the Schuylerville running game under wraps.  Watervliet held the highly touted Black Horses' rushing attack to 105 yards on 33 carries in winning the Class C title for the first time since 1997.  'This is the greatest moment of my life,' Lamarche said. 'The coaches draw up the game plan, and we execute it.'  Schuylerville finally was able to move the ball in the fourth quarter. Quarterback Austin Bateman scored on a three-yard run with 8:10 to play to cut the deficit to 10-6. Although Schuylerville was able to score, the 11-play, 38-yard drive took 4:40.  After forcing a Watervliet punt, Schuylerville took over the ball at its own 18-yard line with just less than four minutes left in the fourth quarter. With the ball at midfield, Bateman's second-down pass was intercepted by Tom Ebenhoch at Watervliet's 15-yard line with 33 seconds left.  Watervliet quarterback Chris Hughes took a knee on the next snap and ran out the clock.  'They controlled the line of scrimmage,' Schuylerville coach Greg O'Connor said.  'They had the ball the whole first half. They outplayed us and outhustled us.'  Hughes led Watervliet with 50 yards rushing on eight carries and connected on 12 of 19 passes for 109 yards. More importantly, he directed the patient offensive plan that controlled the ball.  'This is an awesome feeling. Our defense is the best,' Hughes said. 'They are the fourth-ranked team in the state and our guys shut them down. I practice against them every day, they make me a better player just practicing against them.'  Sean Martin, a local freelance writer, is a frequent contributor to the Times Union.  
