Hes used to working behind the scenes, following scripts rather than writing them.   Steven Jones spent years putting teapots and other artefacts in place on our favourite TV soaps and dramas. His last assignment was on the ITV medical drama The Royal Today, filmed at St Lukes Hospital in Bradford.   When filming finished, Steven decided to branch out on his own, shooting a documentary giving an insight into the lives of islanders living in a remote tropical paradise.   People think the Galapagos Islands is a nature reserve. They think of tortoises and Charles Darwin, but when Ive been there its really quirky, says Steven.   The islands are famed for the unusual animal species that have survived there, such as giant tortoises and unusual lizards.   His introduction to the Galapagos, a collection of small islands 600 miles off the coast of Ecuador in South America, came through his artist friend, Sarah Darling. Sarah was born in the UK and has travelled the world. Twenty years ago she made her home in the Galapagos, where she has set up her tiny blue-painted art gallery.   Steven, from Ilkley, says Sarah invited him to the Galapagos when he went to see an exhibition of her work in London.   In 2002 he took Sarah up on her offer and went out to stay with her and her husband. I stayed with her in her house which is made of rocks, like a cave. It is a very strange place, inaccessible except by boat, explains Steven.   He spent six weeks swimming in the brilliant blue ocean, writing and relaxing. I saw Sarah living such a unique life, and I was talking to her about why she had chosen to live there because it is so inaccessible.   There is provision for air travel but, according to Steven, the airport is small. Essentially it is cut off from the outside world yet there is a community of people who have chosen to live there. Through Sarah I got to know lots of other people who have decided to live alternative lives away from the life we live here.   One couple he met were creating a coffee plantation. They are all very creative, and this impression stayed with me, says Steven.   When filming finished for The Royal Today, Steven decided to explore the possibility of doing a documentary on the Galapagos.   Steven discussed the idea with his friend, Dennis Murphy, who also works in the TV industry. They teamed up with a Chicago-based film-maker, bought their own cameras and equipment, and spent five weeks in April filming the footage, which was shown at the Chicago Film Festival last month.   It is the perfect tropical island paradise, says Steven. It is everything you imagine in a perfect paradise island.   Steven was amazed by the simple way of life he experienced in this unpolluted paradise.   The volcanic island is served by two shops. Food supplies are brought in by boat from Ecuador. There is a small hospital and two salsa nightclubs, and its inhabitants mainly live in houses built into the rocks.   On Santa Cruz, the island where they were filming, the population is between 30,000 and 50,000, while some islands have just four people living there!   There are people from the Charles Darwin Natural Station for Research, and with the American tourist cruise boats there is a constant traffic of people because it is a World Heritage Site. It is a global destination but nobody sees the true face of it, says Steven.   There have been a lot of documentaries which have focused on the natural world but no-one has ever documented the people, and that is the key difference.   Steven recalls filming there for five weeks gave him a glimpse into leading a far simpler life without the gadgets we all take for granted.   It is strange to be in a position where you dont have your home comforts. It is a challenge, even in a short time, and you are in a situation where there is sometimes no electricity and it is boiling hot. It is a completely different environment.   There was a death-defying incident, too. Steven recalls their tiny vessel being tossed back and forth amid huge waves on a return boat trip in the pitch black of night. We were planing across the waves but it was an amazing experience, he says.   They are now contacting various independent TV companies with the hope of seeing Galapagos People on screen early next year.   A variety of people are interested in what we have got because it is really great and the people are so eccentric and creative.   In this country it is a bit gloomy at the moment, and what we are showing is people who are taking a more independent approach to life and getting on with it in a positive way, and it is inspiring.   People have problems there but there is a lot more positive thinking, and it comes through in the film.   It is quirky material and there is a really creative aspect to it.   Steven says it was an inspiring experience for him too as it gave him the opportunity to co-produce a documentary.   It is very refreshing and liberating because a lot of people talk about doing things and dont ever do them.   One of my main philosophies is, if you want to do something, you just do it.   Stevens quest to profile the weird and wonderful things of life continues with a documentary he is in the process of making about a pagan cult in Ireland.   It is quirky and edgy. You wont have seen anything like it. It is jaw-dropping, he says.   I am looking all the time for individual, maverick, weird stuff, but life-affirming and positive.   Three prosecution witnesses have failed to attend court to give evidence in the trial of a couple accused of a crash-for-cash insurance scam, a jury heard.   This x-ray clearly shows a gun pellet lodged inside a cat which had to undergo life-saving surgery after it was shot in Bradford.   Health chiefs in Bradford have backed a Coroners warning about the dangers of binge drinking after a teenager drowned during a night out.   Legal moves are under way to evict a group of travellers who have camped on the car park of a former car dealership in Bradford.   A rugby star was on hand to help raise hundreds of pounds for charity at the launch of a new hair salon.   The number of people suffering from cancer could double in the next 40 years unless steps are taken to stem the rising tide of obesity, an expert has warned.  Obafemi Martins sent Newcastle hurtling up the Barclays Premier League table but still could not keep Joey Barton out of the headlines.   Jeremy Clarkson has sparked fresh BBC controversy by joking about murdering prostitutes.  Dean Furman faces a three-week lay-off to add to Citys mounting midfield injury woes. 
