CUMBRIA IBCs Junior side scored another good win on Sunday when beating York by 35 shots at Darlington.  AROUND THE LOCAL GREENS WITH DAVID TAYLOR  The game was played on a neutral venue at Yorks insistence and as a result of the new rules which have come into force this year.  The final winning margin seemed unlikely at halfway as Danny May trailed by two shots after twelve ends but thereafter went on a scoring spree which saw Jonathon Fieldhouse, Lewis Parker, Gary Robertson and May pick up nineteen shots to one to win 30-14.  Stephen Green made a better start to the game and he too was in command from nine ends on for having led 15-9 at that point Kevin Harrison, Adam Hocking, Mark Irwin and Green did not allow their opponents another shot eventually winning 28-9 when the game ended after seventeen ends.  In the national singles Paul Barlow proved too good for Sal Panico and scored a comfortable win and it was a similar story when Craig Docherty met Kevin Harrison the latter player scoring surprisingly few shots.  Mark Nanson was another to show his experience and ability in another easy win this time against Lewis Parker, and Stephen Farish kept up the run when beating Gary Robertson easily.  In the Senior Singles David McManus made a slow start against Lawrence Telford but got on top from halfway to win 21-11 Ron McMath was involved in a hard match against David Sparrow but the latter player got the upper in hand after 13 ends and had just enough in hand to survive the late rally from McMath to win 21-18.  Joe Menzies proved too strong for Brian warren and won comfortably as did John Crozier when he came up against John Brew.  In the senior Pairs Bill Graham and Geordie McCulloch made the early running but Alec Aitken and Sandy Kirkpatrick finished the stronger to win 24-17.  In the Senior Triples there was a comfortable win for Bill Bryce in the game against Dennis Devlin but there was something of a surprise in the same competition when Murray Adamson, Geordie McCulloch and Sandy Kirkpatrick outpointed Joe Menzies trio for a 17-10 win.  In the Mixed Pairs Kate Foster and John Brew led 11-9 after thirteen ends but were unable to sustain it and were eventually beaten 2-12 by Sue Flitcroft and Craig Docherty.  Docherty did not fare as well in the Mixed Fours where Linda Rose, Karen Edmondson, Dave McManus and Ian Gallagher had the upper hand virtually throughout when winning 23-13.  Looking ahead to this weekend and Cumbrias county side travels to Blackpool Newton Hall on Saturday for the second round Liberty Trophy match against Lancashire.  Cumbria scored a satisfactory win over Yorkshire in the first round but will need to step up on that performance bearing mind that Lancashire won their first game by 100 shots.  That game however was against Derbyshire and I would still expect Cumbria to come out on top though it has to be said that Newton Hall is definitely worth a few shots to the home side.  On Sunday Cumbria IBC meet Eden in a local derby. Bearing in mind the respective strengths of the two sides there should only be one winner but one can never be certain.  Cumbria IBCs B side made a bright start to this years league programme when taking all eleven points from the game against Dalston A at the Recreation Ground.  Bill Wood got on top after a slow start to beat Tom Alberti 25-7 while Jim Morris was in front virtually throughout in beating Danny Reed 23-11. At Copeland the home sides B Team scored a 10-1 victory over Eden.  David Blackmore came out on top against Alan Dalzell winning 15-10 while Barry OHare beat Jimmy Rudd 24-9. At Carlisle Cumbrias A side beat Dalston B 9-2.  Alan Carruthers beat Jim Coward 20-12 after there was just a single shot in it with three to play while Bill Adam survived the loss of a penultimate end six to beat Stephen Watson 17-14.  Friday 6.30: M France v V Trussler pairs  Saturday 12.00: K Edmondson v E Seed Pairs  Saturday 12.00 at Blackpool Cumbria v Lancashire Liberty Trophy  Sunday 10.00: Cumbria IBC v Eden IBC Egham Trophy  Sunday 2.00: R Graham v T Taylor Singles  Wednesday 12.00: J Gower v V Raddy Singles  Cumbria CBA v Lancashire CBA Liberty Trophy  G Robertson, R McMath, P Barlow, S Airey  S Green, A Little, R Graham, G Taylor  E Murray, E Orchard, D may, S Farish  D Forster, M Nanson, N Karge, B Sherwen  D Baxter, R Gass, JN Bell, T Taylor  K Harrison, J Baird, D Linton, I Gallagher  Reserves: J Walker, D McManus, R Thorburn  Cumbria IBC v Eden IBC Egham Trophy  Home: S Devlin, J Bewley, G Taylor, S Farish  K Edmondson, J Gower, P Barlow, I Gallagher  Away: L Rose, E Gass, J Wills, R Graham  C Edmondson, J Wilson, D McManus, A Little  
