 Randy Logue, Kristen Logue The Logues with some of their environmentally friendly merchandiseTRY THISLarge bamboo-and-organic cotton towel, $18A weekly chat with a store owner or clerk in central OhioRandy, 45, owner, and Kristen, 28, manager, the Good Earth Store (614-755-GOOD), 10501 Blacklick Eastern Rd., PickeringtonQ: You're an uncle-and-niece team who recently opened this shop, which sells everything from clothing to linens to bath products. Tell people what you're about.A: Randy: We're about everything that's good for the environment -- sustainability.Q: I'll start with the clothing, which includes items for men, women, babies and a bit for older children. Why is organic cotton, bamboo and hemp so much better than other materials?A: Randy: The organic cotton -- it's all grown without the herbicides and pesticides. Bamboo we selected because it grows so naturally, and the texture of it is so amazing. The clothing is so soft, it's so durable. And the hemp is fibrous material, very durable.Q: You both started testing items you were considering for the store months ago, and have come to really like the organic cotton and bamboo shirts, you say.A: Randy: Before we put it in the store, we wanted to make sure, one, that people liked it and two, that it was durable and that it would last.Q: I'm sure some people hear 'green' and think items such as towels might be scratchy or uncomfortable to use.A: Kristen: They're more of a luxury feel. They're more of a lush bath towel. They feel good when you wash them, too.Q: Randy, you were an information-technology director at Nationwide Insurance before opening the shop. What sparked the idea?A: Randy: What really sparked this was about a year ago, when you started seeing things on TV every day about being green. We started researching. This was something I thought was very good for the community, very good for the people. And I wanted to try it.Kristen: I think it's good for people to know they don't have to change their whole entire lifestyle in one day. They can go step by step.Q: And you've changed the way you live, too, yes?A: Randy: I'll be honest. Before I started the research, we weren't big into the recycling stuff.Now, we have about a bag of trash a week (because the rest is recycled). My son who carries it (out) is like 'This is great!'Q: You've even set up an information area in the middle of the store, with two cushy chairs, a computer and a television, so others can research going green, too.A: Randy: If people want to learn about green, they can come here, research the Internet, watch the Planet Green channel.I've learned so much just listening to Planet Green (in the store).The only time Planet Green isn't on is when the Ohio State Buckeyes are on. We do make an exception.
