U.S. stocks indexes traded mostly flat midday Thursday even as banking stocks continued to be weak. Leading the decliners in Thursday's banking sell-off are no surprise to anyone watching the market for the past year. Citigroup and Bank of America were both off more than 9%. In the past 52 weeks, both firms have lost roughly 90% of their value. In the short term, much of the focus on trading of these large banking stocks has to do with a month's worth of options trading, much of which has been bearish. Investors have scooped up puts in attempts to protect their stock holdings, while speculators have pursued similar tactics to bet on further declines. Traders have been particularly aggressive with bets on Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase 'Today into tomorrow is a different scenario for banks because of expiration tomorrow. When they are down the whole month going into expiration, you have the continued leap down into expiration,' said Dave Rovelli, managing director of U.S. equity trading for Canaccord Adams. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down about 36 points to 7518 in recent trade. Hewlett-Packard trailed the index's financial components, falling 8% after a disappointing earnings report. The S&amp;P 500 was mostly flat at 787 and the Nasdaq Composite Index was off 7 points. All in all, investors saw little to celebrate Thursday as more economic news failed to abate lingering fears that the global slowdown will be even more long-lasting and painful than previously expected. 'You just don't see a lot of conviction from anyone in this market right now,' said floor trader Alan Valdes, of Hilliard Lyons, a New York brokerage. 'We have clients right now who will hold off buying a stock for $10 because they figure it will be $8 next week. That attitude is rampant.' Weakness in the labor markets was underscored with the number of U.S. workers drawing unemployment benefits for more than a week hit a fresh record high near 5 million in early February, but the level of new claims was unchanged from the previous week. The Federal Reserve said Wednesday that the unemployment rate could near 9% by the end of the year. The growing feeling on Wall Street that the recession, now in its fourteenth month, will likely be longer and deeper than investors had generally expected has helped push stocks back near their November bear-market lows this week. Traders are watching to see whether those levels hold. 'We're beginning to fall into a new trading range,' which may yet include a breach of the late-November market lows, said Roger Volz, senior vice president at Hampton Securities, a New York brokerage. 'We've still got very little market participation by the public, which is either so beaten up that it can't take on new positions or has simply stopped caring,' after many small investors were burned in the late-2008 slide. Volz said that has again left hedge funds and other short-term players with deep pockets in the market's driver's seat in recent days, adding volatility. Other economic data were a mixed bag, and left little impression on stocks. The producer-price index rose 0.8% on a seasonally adjusted basis last month, in a report that may ease growing worry about disinflation. The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.4% last month. The Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index showed factory activity in the mid-Atlantic region fell to a level last seen in October 1990. Among stocks to watch, Gamestop shares rallied by more than 10% after the videogame retailer posted strong results and issued guidance that pleased investors. Shares of Whole Foods Market, which posted better-than-expected earnings, soared nearly 34%. European stocks were modestly higher, as investors took some comfort from upbeat corporate earnings. Financial stocks advanced after BNP Paribas said it is well positioned for 2009 and Swiss Re reported a narrower-than-feared full-year net loss. Most Asian markets ended higher Thursday, with exporters such as Toyota Motor benefiting from a weaker yen and lifting Japanese stocks, while miners spurred gains in Australia after a three-session losing streak. Japan's Nikkei 225 ended up 0.3% and the Shanghai Composite added 0.8%. Data on oil inventories suggested demand is holding up better than analysts thought, with U.S. stockpiles of the commodity dwindling a little last week rather than rising as analysts expected. Crude futures rose to around $38 a barrel in New York. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
