The JSE lost momentum and ended flat on Wednesday moving in line with frail US markets with resource and gold counters weighing on the back of a strong local currency.   By 17:00, the JSE all share index was flat, up 0.02%, with resources giving up 0.40% and gold counters falling 2.06%. However, platinum stocks added 1.75%.   Banks were up 1.18%, financials edged up 0.72% and industrials were flat, up 0.16%.   The rand was last bid at 9.93 to the dollar from 10.04 when the JSE closed on Tuesday. Gold was quoted at US$963.90/oz a troy ounce from US$990.62/oz at the JSEs last close, and platinum was at US$1,043/oz, from its previous close of US$1,040/oz. 'US futures have lost ground after yesterdays gains,' an equities trader said. 'We had a strong open and a sell off towards the end of the day. We are moving in line with weaker world markets. 'The rand is strong and the gold price has come down and that is weighing on these gold counters. Resources have also come under pressure on the back of a strong rand and of course weaker world markets,' he said. Dow Jones Newswires reports that US stocks moved lower after the roller coaster ride of the last two sessions, with the financial sector leading the way down.   Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told a Senate panel on Tuesday that he doesnt believe that nationalisation of major US banks is needed. Talk about the potential for a government takeover of Citigroup, Bank of America or other ailing lenders had roiled markets recently, and Bernankes remarks helped push the Dow industrials up 236 points, erasing nearly all of Mondays losses. Bernanke testifies to House lawmakers on Wednesday.   Regulators are expected to begin putting banks through stress tests on Wednesday to determine whether they have adequate capital. Shares of many banks gained in early trading. Citigroup, which is reportedly nearing an agreement to convert the US governments holdings of preferred stock in the bank to common stock, was down about 12%. 
