NEWS  MARKETS  QUOTES 'The housing market remains the Achilles heel of the U.S. economy as prices fall and demand wanes.' - Kathy Lien, director of currency research at GFT Forex in New York. 'If we once again guide the market's invisible hand with a higher principle, our markets will recover, our economy will once again thrive and America will once again lead the world in this new century as it did in the last.' - U.S. President Barack Obama. 'Nationalization to my mind is when the government seizes the bank, zeros out the shareholders and begins to manage and run the bank, and we don't plan anything like that.' - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. 'Whenever there is a question about how large the government role will be ... the market doesn't like that.' - Peter Kenny, managing director at Knight Equity Markets in Jersey City, New Jersey. 'The big draw is in gasoline. Demand is up and refinery runs are lower than expected. Demand is coming back.' - Tom Bentz, an analyst at BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in New York.   DIARY  THURSDAY, Feb. 26  WASHINGTON - U.S. President Barack Obama sends his first budget proposals to Congress.  LONDON - Nationwide publishes February house price index  BERLIN - Germany publishes February unemployment data  BRUSSELS - Euro zone business climate economic sentiment surveys due  FRIDAY, Feb. 27  MANILA - Central bank releases first quarter business expectations survey (Compiled by World Desk, Americas, +1 202 898 8457)   Pace of sales of existing homes in U.S. fell 5.3 pct in Jan, home prices dropped to 6-year low, inventories shrank Obama calls for overhaul of Wall Street regulations, saying big changes needed to avoid repeat of financial meltdown U.S. bank regulators launch 'stress test' to assess largest banks' ability to cope with possibility of deeper recession Fed chief Bernanke warns on economy, says no plans to nationalize Citigroup Plunging global exports drive Japan trade deficit to record $9.82 billion, cause sharp economic contraction in Germany MARKETS U.S. stocks fall after Obama warns of stricter oversight for Wall Street. Dow down 80.05 points, or 1.09 percent. Europe shares end lower for 4th straight session, sectors such as telecoms and pharma slip. Nikkei up 2.7 pct Oil jumps 6 pct to above $42 a barrel after U.S. govt report shows sharp drop in gasoline inventories in world's top consumer Dollar strengthens as weak U.S. housing data and concerns about the global economy boost greenback's appeal as a safe haven 
