PERTH (Reuters) - Oil held above $36 a barrel on Thursday, pausing after steep overnight losses, as lingering worries over the health of the global economy and forecasts for a hefty fall in global energy demand weighed on sentiment.  Markets were cheered after the U.S. Congress reached a deal on $789 billion in new spending and tax cuts on Wednesday, but investors remained skeptical toward a separate U.S. bank rescue plan unveiled on Tuesday that was lacking in specifics.  Investors will now train their eyes on U.S. weekly jobless claims and January retail sales data due later in the day, which will give a clearer indication of how the U.S. economy is faring.  U.S. light crude for March delivery edged up 23 cents to $36.17 a barrel by 0247 GMT. The contract settled down $1.61, or 4.3 percent, on Wednesday.  'The deterioration in U.S. demand drove crude oil inventories higher by more than expected ... short-term risks to oil prices remain on the downside,' Goldman Sachs' commodities analyst Malcolm Southwood said in a note.  Oil has tumbled around 10 percent this week, having fallen four sessions in a row since last Friday, on demand worries and fears the U.S. bank rescue plan would not go far enough to revive the ailing financial sector.  Oil prices took a battering on Wednesday after the U.S. Energy Information Administration said that domestic crude stocks had ballooned 4.7 million barrels to 350.8 million barrels in the week to February 6, against a forecast for a 3.1 million barrel rise.   The latest increase in U.S. crude stocks comes on the heels of a combined rise of over 13 million barrels in the prior two weeks, and crude inventories are now moving significantly above their five-year range, BNP Paribas said in a report.  Oil's losses were further exacerbated by a separate report from the International Energy Agency forecasting that global demand would contract by nearly a million barrels per day (bpd) -- the most since 1982 -- to 84.7 million bpd in 2009.  Underlining the damage caused by the global financial crisis, data showed global trade activity in goods and commodities had tumbled.  The United States reported a fifth straight monthly fall in exports and imports in December, while China's January exports fell 17.5 percent from a year earlier, a sharp acceleration from a 2.8 percent dip in December. Imports plummeted 43 percent, twice as much as in the previous month.  (Editing by Ben Tan)   2009 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Reuters content is the intellectual property of Thomson Reuters or its third party content providers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 'Reuters' and the Reuters Logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. For additional information on other Reuters media services please visit http://about.reuters.com/media/.  
