U.S. stocks declined Wednesday as traders resumed selling bank stocks and a bleak report on home resales highlighted the continued poor health of the housing market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 84 points in recent trade to 7,267, and losses were broad-based as companies including American Express, Pfizer and United Technologies saw declines of 3% or more. The S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite Index each fell about 1%. The financial sector remained in the spotlight a day after remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke calmed fears that major banks could be on the verge of full-blown nationalization. Traders rolled back much of Tuesday's big rally in the sector, pushing the S&amp;P 500's financial sector down about 3.8%. The market's losses quickened following the release of weaker-than-expected housing data. The National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes fell 5.3% in January to an annual pace of 4.49 million units, the weakest reading since July 1997. About 45% of home sales involved distressed property transactions, including foreclosures. The ailing housing market is at the root of the financial sector and the broader economy's woes. The data caused housing stocks to fall - the PHLX Housing Sector Index was down by 4.3% in recent trading - and led to selling in other economically sectors such as industrials and energy stocks. The housing report also caused gold prices, which had been moving lower, to turn around. Regulators are expected to begin putting banks through stress tests Wednesday to determine whether they have adequate capital. Citigroup, which is reportedly nearing an agreement to convert the U.S. government's preferred shares in the bank to common stock, was up 0.4%. Bank of America was up about 1.5%. Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp were down more than 3%. Banks were off their worst levels of the day. Most veteran traders and analysts expect the market to remain in the doldrums. 'It's like we're having death by a thousand cuts here,' said S&amp;P market analyst Rich Peterson. Beyond the banks, Ambac Financial Group, the bond insurer, fell 6% after it said its financial-guarantee losses and provisions surged. Wynn Resorts shares fell 14% after it reported a deep quarterly loss amid a 'dramatic deceleration' in gambling revenue. Discount retailer Dollar Tree was one of the market's few bright spots, rising 2.4% after reporting strong results. The dollar, which has gained status as a safe-haven currency amid concern about economies world-wide, was stronger. Treasurys prices were narrowly mixed. Asian markets were generally stronger Wednesday after Wall Street's gains on Tuesday. The Nikkei 225 climbed 2.7%, with exporters helped by the recent bout of yen weakness. European markets also started the day on a strong note but turned around after the U.S. housing report. The FTSE was recently up by 0.2%, off its highs for the session. Germany's DAX was off 2.3% after S&amp;P's downgrade of Ukraine's debt led to renewed worry about a deepening financial crisis in Eastern Europe. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
