(RTTNews) - After moving sharply lower at the open, stocks remained firmly in negative territory throughout the trading session on Tuesday. The major averages were rangebound for much of the session after the sell-off seen in the first few minutes of trading.  The weakness seen early in the session came as traders continued to express concerns about the outlook for the economy despite passage of a $787 billion stimulus bill that the Obama administration claims will save or create 3.5 million jobs.  President Barack Obama signed the bill into law in a ceremony in Denver, saying that signing the bill begins the difficult work of keeping a promise to give every American the chance to make of their lives what they will and see their children climb higher than they did.  However, Obama noted, 'Today does not mark the end of our economic troubles. Nor does it constitute all of what we must do to turn our economy around. But it does mark the beginning of the end.' Republicans have argued that that the bill will not result in any real stimulus, saying that it should have focused more on tax cuts than on government spending. Some analysts have also suggested that the stimulus plan is not likely to have an immediate impact on the economy.  Reinforcing the concerns about the economy, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York released its report on conditions for New York manufacturers in the month of February, showing that conditions deteriorated by much more than expected.  The report showed that the index of activity in the sector fell to a negative 34.7 in February from a negative 22.2 in January, with a negative reading indicating a contraction in the sector. Economists had expected the index to edge to down to a negative 24.0.  The early sell-off on Wall Street was also partly due to considerable weakness among financial stocks, which moved lower along with their European counterparts. Troubling comments from Moody's contributed to the weakness in the sector.  Moody's issued a report raising concerns about Western European banks supporting Eastern Europe subsidiaries, noting that East European countries have entered a deep and long economic downturn that has exposed West European banks' claims on East European institutions.  In other news, the SEC said that it is charging Robert Allen Stanford of Stanford International Bank with an $8 billion investment scheme. The announcement came on the heels of reports that federal marshals had entered Stanford Financial at its headquarters in Houston, Texas.  Separately, the SEC revealed that it charged BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIMM) and four of its senior executives for stock option backdating. The executives include Co-Chief Executive Officers James Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis.  After a brief recovery attempt, the major averages moved to the downside going into the close, ending the session at or near their lows for the session. The Dow closed down 297.81 points or 3.79 percent at 7,552.60, just above the five-year closing low of 7,552.29 set in November.  The tech-heavy Nasdaq ended the session down 63.70 points or 4.2 percent at 1,470.66, while the S&amp;P 500 closed down 37.67 points or 4.6 percent at 789.17. With the loss, the S&amp;P closed below 800 for the first time since November.  Sector News  Banking stocks ended the session sharply lower, as traders continued to express concerns about the outlook for the sector. The weakness in the sector is reflected by the 11.2 percent posted by the S&amp;P Banks Index, which ended the session at a multi-year closing low.  MGIC Investment (MTG), Huntington Bancshares (HBAN), and SunTrust (STI) turned in some of the banking sector's worst performances.  With traders expressing concerns about the outlook for steel demand amid the global economic slowdown, steel stocks also posted substantial losses. The Amex Steel Index closed down 10.1 percent, although it remains in a two-month trading range.  Significant weakness was also visible among energy stocks, which moved lower along with the price of oil. Crude for March delivery closed down $2.58 at $34.93 a barrel after moving sharply higher last Friday.  Reflecting broad based weakness in the markets, a variety of other sectors also showed steep declines, with some brokerage, real estate, and semiconductor stocks posting notable losses.  On the other hand, gold stocks bucked the downtrend by the broader markets, benefiting from a sharp increase by the price of the precious metal. With gold for April delivery closing up $25.30 at $967.50 an ounce, the Amex Gold Bugs Index closed up 2.6 percent.  Dow Components  Nearly all of the Dow components ended the day in negative territory, contributing to the steep loss posted by the blue chip index. Of the thirty Dow components, only Wal-Mart (WMT) ended the session above the unchanged line.  Reflecting the weakness among financial stocks, shares of American Express (AXP) showed a notable decline over the course of the trading day. The credit card giant closed down 11.3 percent, ending the session at a twelve-year closing low.  The other financial stocks within the Dow also came under considerable selling pressure, with Citigroup (C), JP Morgan (JPM), and Bank of America (BAC) all closing down about 12 percent.  General Motors (GM) also closed sharply lower ahead of the deadline to submit its restructuring plans to the federal government. Shares of GM closed down 12.8 percent, at a new multi-decade closing low.  While most of the other Dow components also posted notable losses, Wal-Mart closed up 3.7 percent after the company reported fourth quarter earnings that fell year-over-year but came in above the company's guidance.  Other Markets  In overseas trading, significant weakness was visible in the markets across the Asia-Pacific region on Tuesday, with Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 Index closing down 1.4 percent amid news of the resignation of Japan's finance minister.  The major European markets also retreated sharply, with the French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index closing down 2.9 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively, while the FTSE 100 Index fell 2.4 percent. Oil and financial stocks weighed on the markets.  In the bond market, treasuries moved sharply higher, as traders moved their money out of stocks and into bonds. Subsequently, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note closed down 22 basis points at 2.662 percent.  Looking Ahead  Economic data is likely to attract some attention on Wednesday, with traders likely to keep an eye on reports on housing starts and building permits, import and export prices, and industrial production and capacity utilization.  Nonetheless, traders are likely to be focused on an announcement from the Obama administration on mortgage foreclosure prevention as well as a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to the National Press Club.  Wednesday afternoon, the Federal Reserve is also due to release the minutes of the latest Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which could shed some light on steps the Fed plans to take in order to stabilize the financial markets.  Additionally, Agilent (A) and Chesapeake Energy (CHK) are among the companies due to release their quarterly results after the close of trading today, while Deere (DE), Goodyear (GT), and Comcast (CMCSA) are among those due to release their results before the open on Wednesday.
