U.S. stocks turned positive Wednesday as financials joined the energy sector in a late-day rally, helping offset an earlier slide thanks to a bleak housing report. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had been off nearly 200 points earlier in the session, was recently up 43 points, or 0.6%, at 7393. Many of its financial components spent the morning trading in the red, only to turn in recent trading. Bank of America recently gained 15% to $5.44, and Citigroup tacked on 11% to $2.89. 'The bigger banks are holding in better today, or at least holding onto gains, as there are some signs the credit markets are not in dire straights,' said Steven Goldman, market strategist for Weeden &amp; Co. Notably, bank stocks slid in the early afternoon as U.S. officials unveiled details of how they plan to convert preferred shares in banking stocks, but credit spreads were largely unchanged. Equity traders noted this lack of movement in the credit markets was a clear signal to push back into bank equity. Under the Treasury's plan, which includes 'stress tests' aimed at measuring how the banks would hold up under both baseline and extreme economic situations, institutions would have six months to raise private capital before getting a government-issued capital buffer. Further lifting stocks was evidence that U.S. oil and gasoline supplies are tightening, which fueled a rally for energy companies. Notably, energy companies in the S&amp;P 500 recently gained 1.1%. Overall, the S&amp;P 500, which was down 20 points earlier, recently gained 5, or 0.7%, to 778, with its financial components up 3.2%. The tech-based Nasdaq recently gained 8 points, or 0.6%, to 1450. Banks also were helped by further comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who continued to calm fears that major banks could be on the verge of full-blown nationalization. Bernanke said Wednesday federal officials already have the tools on hand to prop up banks that need additional capital, and he again pushed back against fears of nationalization. Economists say fixing the banking sector is crucial to a broader recovery. 'There are a thousand ways to put a trillion dollars in the economy, but with banks it's a pier you fall off of if you don't recapitalize the banks,' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at Investment Technology Group. The market's morning losses were tipped off following the release of weaker-than-expected housing data. The National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes fell 5.3% in January to an annual pace of 4.49 million units, the weakest reading since July 1997. About 45% of home sales involved distressed property transactions, including foreclosures. 'We are in the teeth of this economic crisis right now with these numbers, but the market tends to recover when you least expect it to,' said Kent Croft, chief investment officer of Croft Funds. The ailing housing market is at the root of the financial sector and the broader economy's woes. The data caused housing stocks to fall - the PHLX Housing Sector Index was down by 3.8% in recent trading - and led to selling in other economically sensitive sectors such as industrials, with Boeing and Caterpillar both down more than 2%. Most veteran traders and analysts expect the market to remain in the doldrums as the tone on banks remains dire. 'It's like we're having death by a thousand cuts here,' said S&amp;P market analyst Rich Peterson. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
