HONG KONG, Feb 20 (Reuters) - These are some of the leading stories in Hong Kong newspapers on Friday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.  MING PAO DAILY NEWS  -- Over 60 percent of local enterprises say they will cut back on their advertising spending this year by an average of 13 percent, according to an industry survey.  HONG KONG ECONOMIC TIMES  -- Cyberport, the government's hi-tech industrial zone project, is back in the black with a surplus, and the cash it holds for this year is expected to reach HK$100 million.  SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST  -- Chaoda Modern Agriculture, the mainland's biggest vegetable grower, is seeking to raise up to HK$416 million by placing shares with institutional investors, taking advantage of the recent stock rally, market sources said.  THE STANDARD  -- Listing candidate Real Gold Mining will ensure every subscriber gets at least one lot of shares, market sources said.  -- Financial protectionism is even more dangerous than trade protectionism and could lead to 'catastrophic' results, Hong Kong Monetary Authority head Joseph Yam warned.  SING PAO  -- The total number of locals with individual net worth above HK$1 million last year fell 16 percent compared with the previous year due to the financial downturn, an annual survey conducted by Citibank has found. The HK$5 million net worth category saw an even bigger decrease at 36 percent.  WEN WEI PO  -- Deutsche Bank said in a report that Hong Kong will enter a period of deflation as unemployment and declining assets hurt retail sales.  -- The union of PCCW workers said the telecom firm has quietly laid off another 35 employees. The union said it has not ruled out the option of staging strikes against the company's action.  For Chinese newspapers, see...............  For Taiwan newspapers, see............ Keywords: HONGKONG PRESS  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  
