By Jennifer Kwan    TORONTO, Jan 16 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar rose on Friday after falling five straight sessions against the U.S. currency, helped by signs of strength in North American stocks.    The rise came after the Canadian currency touched its weakest level in a month against the U.S. currency on Thursday.    Canada bond prices were lower, following U.S. Treasuries, hurt by the rise in equities.    At 10:28 a.m. (1528 GMT), the Canadian currency was at C$1.2429 to the U.S. dollar, or 80.46 U.S. cents, up from C$1.2515 to the U.S. dollar, or 79.90 U.S. cents, on Thursday.    Earlier, the Canadian currency rallied as high as C$1.2313 to the U.S. dollar, or 81.21 U.S. cents.    U.S. stocks rose on Friday after the announcement of a $20 billion government bailout for Bank of America late on Thursday helped reassure investors.    'Over the last couple of months, every time we've gotten an announcement of a government bailout we've seen a relief rally but those relief rallies have been very short-lived,' said George Davis, chief technical strategist at RBC Capital Markets.    'The big thing now is that people are going to keep an eye on equity markets and crude oil markets today to see if these overnight gains can be sustained.'    The Canadian dollar also got support from a rise in oil prices to above $35 a barrel, boosted by cold weather and a dispute between Russia and Ukraine over gas supplies.  Gold and base metals prices were also higher.    Canada is a major oil producer and exporter, and movements in the price of crude and other commodities often sway the currency.    BONDS LOWER    Bond prices fell on Friday, tracking U.S. Treasuries, hurt by the Bank of America bailout, said Sal Guatieri, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets.    'We're seeing money flow out of bonds, out of Treasuries and back into equity markets,' he said shortly after the market opened.    U.S. stocks rose on Friday morning and Toronto's main stock index shot by 2 percent at the open, but later trimmed those gains.    The two-year bond was down 2 Canadian cents at C$103.27 to yield 0.977 percent, while the 10-year bond fell 65 Canadian cents to C$113.00 to yield 2.671 percent.    The 30-year bond lost C$1.50 to yield 3.559 percent. In the United States, the 30-year Treasury yielded 2.9631 percent.    (Additional reporting by Natalie Armstrong; editing by Peter Galloway) For Reuters bond and money market pricing information double click on one of the following:       Canadian dollar live quote, high/low    Headlines from global forex markets       Canadian bond prices  Canadian money market prices    Canada-U.S. spreads (live)      World yield index  30 year benchmark  - Montreal Exchange    bond futures pricing information     Bank of Canada monetary conditions index (Reuters calculation)    Canada's call loan or overnight lending rate     For the fixed-income market speed guides, double click on one of the following:    For related news, double click on one of the following:   Canadian news   North American Treasuries news     Money news     Debt news    Markets news   Government debt news   Money market news   Interest rate news   Central bank news   Canadian bond market stories Keywords: MARKETS      Keywords: MARKETS CANADA/DOLLAR BONDS    (jennifer.kwan@thomsonreuters.com; +1 416 941 8178; Reuters Messaging: jennifer.kwan.reuters.net@reuters.c  om)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
