That's a wrap. Shareholders of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. officially approved the iconic Wall Street institution's $50 billion all-stock acquisition by Bank of America Corp. on Friday morning at a special stockholders meeting. The deal, made in the midst of the meltdown caused by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., will leave Merrill as wholly owned subsidiary of Bank of America. Once the regulatory hurdles have been cleared, the two banks will roll up their sleeves and fully take on the most difficult part of the deal: integrating two vastly different cultures, a task for BofA CEO Ken Lewis that may be as difficult as wrestling a real bull, not just an iconic one.  Merrill employees are already reeling from expectations of layoffs, as job cut estimates rose from 10,000 soon after the deal was announced in September to 30,000 in early December. As our colleague Suzanne Stevens at Corporate Dealmaker wrote Friday:  And don't be surprised to hear a layoff number higher than those already floated. Dino Mauricio, a managing director of M&amp;A integration at the management and financial consultancy Getzler Henrich, told us in early November that layoffs were one of the few ways for BofA and other acquiring banks to achieve projected synergies.     Layoffs are spreading far and wide throughout the financial services sector. Labor tracking firm Challenger Gray &amp; Christmas estimates that over 91,000 Wall Street jobs were slashed in November alone, promising a challenging, gray Christmas for many on the Street.  However, the merger is also seeing Bank of America lose some of the employees that it would most like to keep from Merrill's high-profile brokerage unit, which Lewis once described as the "the crown jewel."   Merrill's 15,500 brokers are being allowed to leave BofA without facing legal action, if they haven't taken advantage of retention packages that could qualify them for a bonus of as much as 100% of their annual revenue. - George White   See Merrill Lynch press release  See Corporate Dealmaker postSee Dealscape post on Merrill layoffs  See Dealscape post on Merrill brokers   
