by Jordan Weir Every day, the stock market seems to continue its precipitous drop towards worthlessness, crushing hopes, dreams, and investors in a flurry of dizzying price movements. Yet there is an answer; a light in the darkness, used by the masters of investment to generate excess returns even &amp;#8221; no, scratch that, - especially in falling markets like this one. The technique Im referring to happens to be popular with hedge fund managers &amp;#8221; those stock market whizzes pulling millions of dollars a year in exchange for managing their portfolios. This technique was also responsible for the creation of many a millionaire during the 1929 stock market crash. Yet this same technique is shunned by the public, due to its intrinsic counter-intuitive nature. Still, mastery of this technique &amp;#8221; and its a lot simpler then you may think &amp;#8221; its essential to doing well in bear  markets such as this one. While counter-intuitive, shorting stock is less complicated then you might think. The goal when shorting stock is the same as when buying; your trying to buy low, and sell high. The only difference is that you do it in the other order. You sell stock today, and you buy it tomorrow (or some other time in the future),  hopefully for less. By doing so, you make a profit equal to the difference between your buying and selling prices. An example&amp;#8230; In late September 2008, Bank of America was trading for around $35.00. Shorting the stock at that point in time wouldve been extremely lucrative, as by late November, it was trading for around 15.00$. Shorting even 100 shares of bank of America, you would have made 2000$ (100 shares * $20 price drop). The process is something like the following. 100 shares of the stock, in this case, bank of America are borrowed from your broker, and then sold. You pocket the $3500. 2 months later, you buy back the shares for $1500, and return them to your broker, keeping the $2000 difference between what you bought them for, and what you sold them for. For those abstract thinkers, it may be easier to conceptualize shorting as simply buying a negative number of shares. When you own 500 shares of a company, and the companies stock price increases by $1.00, you make $500. When you own -500 shares of a company, and the companies stock price increases by $1.00, you lose $500. However, when you own -500 shares, and that company then plummets by 5$, now you stand to gain $2500. As they say, the bull goes up the stairs, but the bear goes out the window. Markets fall faster then they rise, so the time to make money is now! Regardless of how you play the markets, an eye must be kept on the most important element of all &amp;#8221; risk. While shorting helps to remove some of the systematic risk from your portfolio &amp;#8221; a portfolio composed of both buying stocks, and short stocks, is less venerable to a market crash &amp;#8221; it does carry its own unique risks. Especially in a bear market, it pays to watch the news on your shorts. Any good news that comes out may raise the stock price of those that your shorting, and if a stock isnt going down anymore, its not a good stock to be short. The bigger risk to your short positions is the end of a bear market. When the new bull market ends, many short positions will quickly swing towards unprofitability, and so you must be quick to close them. A typical risk-management choice many professionals use is the 5% rule. When your trading stocks, dont risk more then 5% of your portfolio on any one position, and preferably less. So with the $20000 portfolio, risk no more then $1000 on a trade. This  doesnt mean you cant invest more then $1000 per trade. It just means that your stop loss should be triggered before $1000 is lost. So if you short a stock at $20, and have a stop loss at $25, then you can buy up to 200 shares (far more then the actual value of your portfolio). If your time span is shorter, then you should use a smaller percentage, while if your timespan is longer then a couple months, the 5% rule could be adjusted as high as 10% (for the risk-tolerant). The current trend in the market is down. This is the most important thing to keep in mind when deciding where youll invest your money at this point in time. When the stock market is in bear market mode, almost all stocks are moving downwards. When this happens, it doesnt make sense to buy-and-hold like the masses. A far more productive approach is to find out whats working and to use that method instead. In the context of a bear market, the easiest way to make money is to short stocks or etf&amp;#8217;s.  About the Author: Confused about ETF&amp;#8217;s shorting stocks, crashing markets or any of the other terms? Or just interested in cashing in on this huge opportunity? Click here and Learn How to short stocks Get a totally unique version of this article from our article submission service 
