         If you are looking for something like breakdown insurance, its worth checking at a comparison site like  www.moneysupermarket.com  (and then for click through commissions from a site like  www.quidco.com ).  moneysupermarket has 50 different breakdown policies from various companies, with different levels of cover.    Its quite rare that renewing with the same company for years on end will give you the best deal, as they know that they can increase the price and people will still renew their policy for the lack of hassle.  When you do renew insurance, then its worth checking the details of the company that is underwriting the policy.  I renewed my annual travel insurance policy recently.  The premiums for this had dropped by about half from the amount that I had paid over the last few years.  One of the cheapest deals was backed by AIG Insurance.  They are one of the biggest insurance companies in the world, with a trillion dollars of assets they have been caught up in the financial meltdown.    Insurance policies are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  If you had a claim outstanding the FSCS would step in and pay 100% of the claim for compulsory insurance, such as third party motor cover, and 100% of the first 2,000 plus 90% of the remainder of the claim for non-compulsory insurance.   This means that there are some insurance policies which will be fine, but others which would be better off with an insurer that is not likely to go bust.  For instance, my car is worth less than 2000, so I would be fully covered by the FSCS for damage to it, and the FSCS would also cover the 3rd party claims.  For travel insurance, the claims I really care about are huge medical bills if I had to be flown home after an accident or illness.  I don't think these would be treated as being "compulsory insurance", and so the FSCS would only cover 90% of a claim that could be really big.  For breakdown insurance, then the FSCS cover should be fine as you are unlikely to get a claim over 2000.    If you did get insurance that was underwritten by a company that went bust, then the FSCS would only cover existing claims. You would lose your premium and still need to buy another policy.                  
