  quote:  Originally posted by JoeTheHumanCannonball: You're making a good case for why we should have these long term projects, but how does it fit into the notion that we need to have an immediate stimulus to stave off an economic catastrophe NOWNOWNOW?  Keynesian fiscal policy doesn't call for government spending to replace private sector spending long term, it calls for an immediate infusion to make up for a demand shortfall.     NOWNOWNOW = start doing work within the next six to twelve months. There's nothing particularly longterm about injecting insulation into buildings.    quote:   And have you done the numbers?  What are the actual energy efficiency benefits?  Is it substantial or a pittance?     The numbers have to be done on a case-by-case basis. Sounds like some good jobs for home inspectors and accountants!  In the case of every house I have personally run the numbers on (all three of them), it makes a big difference in heating costs. I never ran the cooling numbers.  Edit: the fly in the ointment as an individual homeowner is that you have to stay in the house to recoup your cost. That issue doesn't apply to government-funded projects -- as long as the building stays occupied, the owners will benefit from the energy efficiency.    quote:  Do we have enough trained people to do these projects?    Have you ever actually done any construction work? It's not exactly something you need a graduate degree for. All sorts of people already volunteer to do construction work as a charity and/or personal hobby.    quote:  People aren't just instantly interchangeable--are you going to have these laid-off Citibank and GM people building bridges?    You don't think they're capable of it?    quote:  Someone else here suggested retraining all these people for infrastructure projects.  Okay, say you do that.  Do we perpetually build infrastructure projects to keep these people employed?  Is there a way to have the private sector eventually step in and keep these retrained people employed, or are we just creating an unsustainable construction bubble?    Bubble implies speculation -- there won't be much of that. As the economy rebounds and jobs become available, people who don't actually want to be doing this work will be the first to leave.  If the economy doesn't rebound, then certainly we won't begrudge the couple extra years to gradually adjust to our lower standard of living.     This message has been edited. Last edited by:  aliftedlorax ,  document.write(' '+ myTimeZone('Mon, 09 Feb 2009 14:51:37 GMT-0800', 'February 09, 2009 17:51')+' ');   February 09, 2009 17:51   
