    EARTHMAN wrote:     Mr. Markopolos is indeed a "hero." The "villains" in this drama are the members of congress and the people running the SEC who in 1995 gutted the very law that would have made it possible for Madoff's victims to stop him dead in his tracks. That law is Title 18 U.S.C. Section 1964(c). Prior to 1995, any person injured (swindled) in a securities transaction could sue a "Madoff" under the powerful RICO statutes. The SEC hated the fact that ordinary people could "police" the securities industry more effectively than they, and wanted to get rid of these pesky whiners from "their" turf. Congress agreed. After 1995, virtually every financial transaction was "morphed" into a "securities transaction." Mortgages, credit card debt, and all forms of consumer debt, were "bundled" into derivitives and sold off to foreign and domestic investors for huge profits. Each of these transactions were beyond the reach of the people who were lied to, under the "new and improved 1964(c)." All people could do was complain to the SEC, FBI, or some other government agency (as did Mr. Markopolos), who would completely ignore their complaints. That was the plan all along. With just a few words inserted into a powerful law, 300 million citizens were robbed of their standing to sue to stop these criminals and recover three times their damages, unless and until the United States convicted a Madoff type of securities fraud. What we have now seen, thanks to Mr. Markopolos, is how the criminals, including the SEC, used that "exception" to avoid being caught. If it weren't for this civilization-destroying depression, which caused Madoff's influx of new money to dry up, which opened the door for Mr. Markopolos to testify before congress, citizens would still have no clue as to how trillions of dollars have been sucked out of our economy by thieves like Madoff; CitiGroup, Bank of America, Lehman Brothers, Goldman-Sachs, to name just a few, who's joint and several securities fraud are the reasons we are in the mess we're in. The little "exception" congress inserted, gutting 1964(c), allowed all of these thieves to stay out of the reach of their victims. The "regulatory solution" is to eliminate the "exception" and restore 1964(c) to its original language. The Banks, Wall Street, and the SEC will howl like vampires with a stake through the heart, but so what. They deserve it. 300 million vigilant citizens, armed with a restored 1964(c), policing that industry are far more effective than 400 incompetent SEC investigators being told to stand down by their corrupt and incompetent political-hack bosses.     Thank you for that, Earthman! Very informative.
