 Bank executive Ron Samuels has been named the new chairman of the Nashville Area Chamber of Commerce's board of directors, the organization said Wednesday.Samuels, the president and chief executive of Avenue Bank, replaces Darrell S. Freeman Sr., the chairman and chief executive of Zycron Inc., an information technology company.Bert Mathews, president of The Mathews Co., a real estate firm, was named vice chairman, and Bob Grimes, marketing manager for Turner Universal Construction Co., will be secretary.Ralph Schulz remains president, and Freeman becomes the group's immediate past chairman.The chamber also announced seven new board members for the 2008-2009 term: Dennis Alpert, senior manager of public affairs/government relations for Wal-Mart Stores Inc.; David Fox, a partner in the public relations firm McNeely Pigott &amp;amp; Fox; Kate Herman, president and publisher of Nashville Business Journal; Dr. Melvin N. Johnson, president of Tennessee State University; Larry Kloess, president of HCA Tri-Star Health Systems; Tom Oreck, executive chairman of Oreck Corp., a vacuum cleaner manufacturer; and Nick Zeppos, chancellor of Vanderbilt University.The following board members will return: " Tom Aaron, partner, Deloitte &amp;amp; Touche LLP. " Kenneth Blackburn, vice president of external affairs, AT&amp;amp;T. " Andrew Byrd, president/chief manager, Andrew W. Byrd &amp;amp; Co. " Ramon Cisneros, president and CEO, La Campana newspaper. " Ron Corbin, field vice president, Allstate Insurance Co. " Mike Edwards, president, First Tennessee Bank. " Marc Fortune, chairman emeritus, Century II. " Tom Foster, president, Interior Design Services Inc. " Richard Frost, CEO, Louisiana-Pacific Corp. " Marcela Gomez, president, Diversity Brands/Hispanic Marketing Group. " Cheri Henderson, president, Tennessee Minority Supplier Development Council. " Keith Herron, president, Regions Bank. " Dan Hogan, president and CEO, Fifth Third Bank. " Harvey Hoskins, managing director, Hoskins &amp;amp; Co., CPAs " Orrin Ingram, president and CEO, Ingram Industries Inc. " Clay Jackson, senior vice president and regional agency manager, BB&amp;amp;T Cooper, Love &amp;amp; Jackson, Thornton &amp;amp; Harwell. " Christine Karbowiak, vice president of public affairs, Bridgestone Americas Holding Inc. " Ellen Leifeld, publisher and president, The Tennessean " Rob McNeilly, president and CEO, SunTrust Bank. " Tom Negri, general manager, Loews Vanderbilt Hotel. " Deborah Story, commissioner, Tennessee Department of Human Resources. " Charles Sueing, president, The Sueing Agency, Nationwide Insurance &amp;amp; Financial Services. " Uzi Yemin, president and CEO, Delek US Holdings Inc./Mapco Express.
