Click here for an archive of Jim Cramer's Mad Money recaps.  More on RIMM  Market Activity  Apple Incorporated  AAPL  Colgate-Palmolive Company  CL  The Clorox Company  CLX  With the Dow and S&amp;P posting their worst yearly opens since record keeping began, Jim Cramer told the viewers of his 'Mad Money' TV show Wednesday that the real market action has nothing to do with earnings or fundamentals.  Cramer said there's a war that's been brewing between shareholders, creditors and now, the federal government. He said that the real behind-the-scenes action has been the quiet assault on common shareholders as the the 'bond bullies' stand firm on their payment terms.  For example, Cramer said, Nortel Networks (NT Quote - Cramer on NT - Stock Picks), was forced today into bankruptcy by bondholders and creditors unwilling to negotiate. That was ruinous for the common stockholders, who saw their shares fall to 32 cents a share.  The Obama administration is only adding to the assault, said Cramer, with its letter to Congress stating that banks in need of additional TARP money must comply with strict rules that punish only the shareholders.  This, he said, is again putting fear into names like Citigroup (C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) and Bank of America (BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks), along with the insurers like Hartford Financial (HIG Quote - Cramer on HIG - Stock Picks), Prudential (PRU Quote - Cramer on PRU - Stock Picks), Principal Financial (PFG Quote - Cramer on PFG - Stock Picks) and Lincoln National (LNC Quote - Cramer on LNC - Stock Picks).  Cramer said all of these stocks were presumed to be out of the woods, but now are not.  Cramer said only the recession resistant names, those with little debt, are immune to this war. He recommended stocks like Pfizer (PFE Quote - Cramer on PFE - Stock Picks), Coca Cola (KO Quote - Cramer on KO - Stock Picks), Colgate (CL Quote - Cramer on CL - Stock Picks), Clorox (CLX Quote - Cramer on CLX - Stock Picks) and Kimberly-Clark (KMB Quote - Cramer on KMB - Stock Picks).  Cramer: Obama's Infrastructure Play  
