Sharjah: Representing Eurocon Alubond cricket team in the Ramadan tournament is a lucky charm for many international cricketers.Dilhara Lokuhettige, who cracked a half century to guide Eurocon to 70-runs victory over GCAI in the Sharjah Ramadan Rufi Cup Twenty20 tournament, received a call from the Sri Lankan national team to play in the Canada Cup Twenty20 Four-nation tournament in Toronto.And last year, pacer Mohammad Sami was recalled to the Pakistan team while playing for Eurocon in the Ramadan Cup.Before flying out to Sri Lanka, Lokuhettige helped Eurocon make 166 for seven. Lokuhettige hit 57 off just 36 balls with five sixes and two fours. But the man who stole the show was another Sri Lankan Test star Ruchira Perera. He picked five wickets for just ten runs with his left-arm medium pace to restrict GCAI to just 96 for nine.Perera, whose full name is Panagodage Don Ruchira Laksiri Perera, has represented Sri Lanka in eight Test matches and 19 one-dayers. He began his Test career taking the prize wicket of India's VVS Laxman. And at the Sharjah Stadium, GCAI batsmen found him unplayable.Lokuhettige, who has only played in eight one-dayers for Sri Lanka, displayed how he can massacre a bowling attack. Rizwan Ahmad, an international player from Pakistan, chipped in with 33. A good effort by GCAI's Khurran, who took four wickets for 18 runs, could not stop the Eurocon run flow.Easy victoryIn another match, Lloyds Bank scored an easy eight wicket victory over Gayan Steel.Meanwhile, in the Trucape Kibsons Twenty20 Ramadan tournament organised by Ajman Cricket Council, Ibsons topped the Group after beating Pak Emirates by 61 runs. Mohammad Boota and Naeemullah took Ibsons to 199 with half centuries. Naeemullah hit 55 off 25 balls which included four towering sixes. Pak Emirates were bowled out for 138 in the eighteenth over.In Group C, Inder Transport beat Al Barraq by 56 runs. Inder Transport scored 207 for the loss of six wickets. Opener shehzad was the top scorer with 79 off 45 balls which included 11 fours and one six.Al Barraq gave up without putting up any resistance except for Naseeb Gul who hit 53.
