Text your news or pictures (plus 'SLNEWS' or 'SLPICS') to 80360.  Luiz Felipe Scolari believes team ethic is separating Chelsea from the rest with confidence in the camp growing by the week. The Brazilian coach now wants his players to build on Saturday's 2-0 victory at Stoke in the Barclays Premier League when they face CFR 1907 Cluj on Wednesday in the Champions League. He said: 'My team is in good condition and we are keeping our shape well. We are now at our best. All my players know their position and how to cover for each other if necessary. If a player makes a mistake, another one helps him out and that is important.' He added: 'We have won most of our matches and drawn only two. We have confidence as we have good players.' However, Chelsea suffered another injury blow at the Britannia Stadium when Salomon Kalou did not appear for the second half after taking a knock on his ankle. The striker's fitness will be monitored ahead of the Champions League match as will Joe Cole's. He was sidelined because of a slight tear in his thigh. Deco (thigh), Ricardo Carvalho (knee) and Michael Essien (knee) will all miss the match because of injury.   Editor's Choice  A newsagent which sold lager to a 15-year-old has been hit with a 400 fine by Croydon Councils trading standards team. A second youth has been arrested after a teenager was fatally stabbed outside a bar in Croydon in the early hours of Saturday morning.The 18-year-old found guilty of the murder of Mitcham stab victim Eugene Attram has been jailed for 12 years. A property developer who unlawfully demolished a listed building in Putney has been told he must take immediate steps to protect what's left of it, pending its complete restoration. Mystery surrounds a man who was admitted to Mayday Hospital with head injuries believed to have been caused by a broken whisky bottle. More than 200 police officers stormed a bookies and a pub in Thornton Heath in a shock and awe operation against class A drugs. Commuters face delays today as hundreds of bus drivers strike on routes including those in southwest London. North End was swamped in pink balloons as friends, family and members of the public turned out to mark the 21st birthday of murdered Sally Anne Bowman. A newsagent which sold lager to a 15-year-old has been hit with a 400 fine by Croydon Councils trading standards team. A second youth has been arrested after a teenager was fatally stabbed outside a bar in Croydon in the early hours of Saturday morning. The 18-year-old found guilty of the murder of Mitcham stab victim Eugene Attram has been jailed for 12 years. A property developer who unlawfully demolished a listed building in Putney has been told he must take immediate steps to protect what's left of it, pending its complete restoration. Mystery surrounds a man who was admitted to Mayday Hospital with head injuries believed to have been caused by a broken whisky bottle. More than 200 police officers stormed a bookies and a pub in Thornton Heath in a shock and awe operation against class A drugs. Commuters face delays today as hundreds of bus drivers strike on routes including those in southwest London. North End was swamped in pink balloons as friends, family and members of the public turned out to mark the 21st birthday of murdered Sally Anne Bowman. 
