Luiz Felipe Scolari will speak to the Chelsea hierarchy before deciding whether to appeal against the red card that threatens to keep John Terry out of next Sunday's showdown with Manchester United. The England captain was dismissed 13 minutes from the end of Chelsea's 3-1 Barclays Premier League win at Manchester City after bringing down Jo just inside the visitors' half. Referee Mark Halsey ruled Terry was the last man, even though Ricardo Carvalho was clearly behind his central defensive partner when the incident took place. Scolari felt it was too early to say whether he will ask for Halsey to look at the incident again, but said: 'I would need to see it again on TV before I could really speak about it. I let the referee make decisions but I will speak to the players and the board because I don't have any idea what happened.' Scolari was understandably delighted with the victory, especially as things looked bleak for Chelsea when Robinho curled City into a 13th-minute lead. Considering Scolari wanted to sign the Brazilian himself before City stepped in with their British record 32.5million deadline-day bid, he could be forgiven for feeling slightly frustrated. Instead, the Chelsea coach has nothing but good wishes for the 24-year-old. 'I have wished him all the best at Manchester City because I like him and he is my friend,' said Scolari, who greeted Robinho with a huge embrace when the pair met immediately before kick-off. 'He scored once and we got three, so I am happy with that. Hopefully it will be the same next time we play City and I will be happy again.'   EDITORS CHOICE  SEVERE flash floods hit a number of local areas in north Worcestershire and other parts of the West Midlands at the weekend to bring back miserable memories of last years catastrophic events.  A DROITWICH couple told how their lives were devastated by a terrifying campaign to set mobile homes ablaze on the site where they had lived happily for seven years.  A 70-year-old Bromsgrove man has been jailed for sexual assaults on young girls.  AWARD-winning comedian and star of radio and television, Jason Manford, will perform at the Artrix in Bromsgrove tomorrow (Thu) as part of his debut UK tour.  NEW Bromsgrove Rovers boss Rod Brown has wasted little time in bolstering his squad, with four transfer targets lined up before Saturdays league clash with Sutton Coldfield Town.  IT was a golden week for Jess Varnish at the European Junior Track Championships in Poland, as she stormed to victory in the 500m Time Trial and the Kieirin. 
