Terry Venables would take over a club that was last night knocked out of the Carling Cup by Tottenham. Photograph: Owen Humphreys/PAThe former England manager Terry Venables will decide today whether to become interim manager of Newcastle United after holding talks yesterday about taking over at the beleaguered club. Venables is the latest name in the frame to take over since the departure of Kevin Keegan and the owner Mike Ashley's decision to put the club up for sale. 'I can confirm I met Newcastle representatives,' Venables told The Sun. 'Those talks will continue in the morning [today] when, hopefully, I can give them a final decision.' Venables is understood to have held talks with the Newcastle vice-president Tony Jimenez, the managing director Derek Llambias and the executive director Dennis Wise in London with a view to persuade the 65-year-old to take over control of first team affairs from Chris Hughton. Venables previously held talks with Newcastle in September 2004 when he was in discussion with the then chairman Freddy Shepherd to succeed the sacked Sir Bobby Robson, but the job eventually went to Graeme Souness.  last night was a fourth successive loss for a team also struggling in the lower reaches of the Barclays Premier League. A crowd of 20,577 turned up to see them lose to Spurs - the lowest for a competitive match at St James' Park since the capacity was increased to more than 52,000.That came amid continued speculation about the future ownership of the club with a consortium from Nigeria believed to be the favourites to take over. The consortium fronted by Chris Nathaniel are set to make a statement by the weekend on the possibility of buying Newcastle.Nathaniel, chief executive of NVA management, has declared interest in buying out Ashley from a group of entrepreneurs he is liaising with. 'It is a very serious offer, they are very serious business people and passionate football fans,' he said. 'We are still at the early stages. Hopefully in the next 48 hours we will be in a position to make a statement and take the situation further.'
