Joe Kinnear has insisted he is no fool as he attempts to relaunch his football career at Newcastle. The 61-year-old accepted the role of caretaker manager at St James' Park until the end of October - and with it the task of trying to drag the Magpies out of a downward spiral that is threatening to suck them into a mire of their own making.Kinnear told talkSPORT: 'I'm not scared of a fight. I'm going in with my eyes open and if I do have a successful spell, then you don't know where it will lead.' He added: 'I'm not daft enough not to know that they have tried everyone else and everybody else has turned their back on it. 'What I intend to do is make an instant improvement at the club. After that, of course, I know that I won't be there.' Kinnear will take over at St James' on Monday after Chris Hughton's spell as caretaker draws to a close with today's Barclays Premier League clash against Blackburn. But he knows he may be in charge for only a matter of weeks as owner Mike Ashley, who did the deal himself, attempts to sell the club he bought only 16 months ago. Kinnear said: 'He [Ashley] made it quite clear that he hopes to have the club sold by the beginning of October. 'I worked it out that I would be in charge for between six and eight games. 'But he assures me that they have a buyer and the consortium coming in have Kevin Keegan lined up, and possibly Alan Shearer. I'm well aware of the situation. Good luck to Kevin if he's coming back in. He's the fans' choice and you know what the fans are like, they call the tune in many respects.'   Editor's Choice  NEWPORT Gwent Dragons head coach Paul Turner has stressed the need to blunt Edinburghs potent attacking threat if they are to grab the first part of a home hat trick at Rodney Parade tonight.  IT was another quiet day at Spytty Park yesterday, with three more first team players axed and four players signing, with the possibility of another striker to be added today.  WELSH Rugby Union group chief executive Roger Lewis has blocked discussions on the simmering row which has broken out over Wales kicking coach Neil Jenkins helping out Guinness Premiership team Bath.  NEWPORT Gwent Dragons coach Paul Turner has hit out at the decision of the Welsh Rugby Union and Wales coach Warren Gatland to allow kicking chief Neil Jenkins to coach Baths kickers on a part-time basis.  UEFA could announce plans to expand the European Championships by eight teams, from 16 to 24, on Friday according to Franz Beckenbauer.  Terry Venables has revealed the reason he turned down the chance to become Newcastle's interim manager, insisting the club 'means too much to too many people' to agree to a match-by-match deal. 
