Mark Hughes is confident that Manchester City's new owner will not prove to be the latest Barclays Premier League let-down.A number of foreign takeovers of top-flight clubs, such as Liverpool and City's previous owner Thaksin Shinawatra, have not fulfilled fans' expectations but Hughes believes Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan is more interested in long-term success than short-term thrills. 'If you look in the way they do business historically they do it in the correct way,' said Hughes following his side's 6-0 thumping of Portsmouth. 'They know continuity enables you to sustain success and that's what they want - the right people in the right places and they will give us the resources to be successful. 'They have an understanding of what needs to be done. It's not going to happen overnight, they are very realistic in that respect - they are going to build the club and make sure that success is sustainable by investing in the team, in quality staff in facilities and resources.' The sheikh has installed a new chairman, Khaldoon Al Mubarak, a 32-year-old American-educated businessman, who was at Eastlands to watched a Robinho-inspired City demolish Portsmouth.City produced an attacking masterclass against Pompey and Hughes described it as the best display by a team he has managed.Jo, Richard Dunne, Robinho and Shaun Wright-Phillips plus substitutes Ched Evans and Gelson Fernandes each scored in a stunning all-round display. 'It was the best performance by one of my teams by a country mile,' Hughes explained. 'If you had to pick any day to impress people this was the day to do it. From start to finish our drive and determination and our ability to pick the right pass and create chances was evident for all to see. It was a fantastic day for us.'   EDITORS CHOICE  SCHOOLS in Bromsgrove have been targeted by callous thieves in a spate of metal thefts causing thousands of pounds worth of damage.  A PLAN to hand over the running of two popular leisure centres to a trust has collapsed due to differences in pay structures.  WORCESTERSHIRE has changed hugely in the last 150 years, and photographers from The Francis Frith Collection were there to record much of that change.  IN the town renowned for making the world's most famous gates a pair erected at the entrance to two new Bromsgrove schools could have come straight out of a horror film.  KEVIN Banner's return to Bromsgrove Rovers from Rugby Town has been confirmed.  YET another hole in one was achieved by an Ombersley Golf Club ladies member. 
