Mike Ashley put Newcastle up for sale on Sunday and, in an attempt to gain some sympathy, revealed the extent of the club's deep problems. In a long and winding statement that appeared on the club website, Ashley also offered a passionate defence of Dennis Wise and the management team labelled 'the Cockney mafia' by rebellious home supporters.  It was a remarkable insight into the running of a Barclays Premier League club that has been haemorrhaging money in trying to play ball with the big boys. Ashley told the full story of the club purchase, claiming it would not have survived without his cash. 'I paid 134million out of my own pocket, then poured another 110m just to reduce the debt - and the club is still in debt,' he said. He is still paying more than 30m in transfer fees for players he inherited, such as Michael Owen. Sponsorship and advertising revenue had already been spent by the previous regime and he said: 'Before I spent a penny on wages or players, Newcastle had cost me more than a quarter of a billion pounds.' More...     His revelations suggest it will be years before Newcastle can recover from past excesses. Ashley says he anticipated spending around 20m a year but wanted a structure that would sustain the club. He wanted young players from across the globe.'Arsenal is the shining example of a sustainable business model,' he said. 'It takes time. It can't be done overnight. Dennis and his team have done a first-class job in scouting for talent to secure the future of the club. You only need to look at some of our signings to see it is working. 'One of the reasons the club was so in debt was because every time there was a change in manager millions would be spent on new players and millions would be lost. It is just madness. 'I have put Newcastle on a sound financial footing. It is reducing its debt. It is spending within itself. It is recruiting exciting players and bringing in players for the future.' With Tony Jimenez and Wise already sent to Dubai this week trying to stoke up interest from Arab buyers, Ashley is clearly hoping to sell soon. But he promises he will not abandon the club. He said: 'I am very conscious of the responsibility I bear in owning Newcastle United. Tough decisions have to be made in business and I will not shy away from doing what I consider to be in the best interests of the club. This is not fantasy football. 'I would not expect all fans to agree with me but if I can't sell the club to someone who will give the fans what they want, then I shall continue to ensure Newcastle is run on a business and football model that is sustainable. I care too much about the club merely to abandon it. I have listened to you. You want me out. That is what I am now trying to do.' As part of his 1,600 word statement he pleaded for supporters to end their demonstrations, saying: 'You don't need to demonstrate against me again because I have got the message. Any further action will only have an adverse effect on the team. As fans of Newcastle United you need to spend your energy getting behind, not me, but the players who need your support. 'I am determined that Newcastle United is not only here today, but that it is also there tomorrow for your children who stand beside you at St James' Park. Everyone in England knows Newcastle has the best fans in the world.' Ashley bought drinks in nightclubs, sat beside the fans at away grounds across the country and went down in Geordie folklore for shunning Niall Quinn and the suits at the Stadium of Light so he could wear his black-and-white shirt and enjoy victories over the Mackems. Saturday's events confirmed a spectacular fall from grace; sheer hate from the support, who demanded the 'fat boy and his Cockney mafia' should get out of Toon. On police advice, Ashley decided not to attend Saturday's home defeat to Hull. So that's a 250m ticket with no seat in the house. 'I am not stupid and have listened to the fans,' he said. 'I have loved taking my kids, being next to them and all the fans, but I am now a dad who can't take his kids to a football game because I am advised we would be assaulted. Therefore, I am no longer prepared to subsidise Newcastle United. 'I am putting the club up for sale. I hope the fans get what they want and the next owner is someone who can lavish the amount of money on the club the fans want. 'I am still a fan of Newcastle. My kids and I have loved standing on the terraces, loved travelling with the away fans and have met so many whose company we have enjoyed. We have loved it but it is not safe anymore as a family.'
