A consortium of wealthy Nigerians are planning to take over Newcastle United, according to a report in Africa.Current owner Mike Ashley is trying to find a buyer for the ailing Barclays Premier League club, after proving unsuccessful with his initial efforts to secure a sale. Ashley has announced he wants to sell his interest in Newcastle just 16 months after staging a 134.4million takeover.Dubai International Capital (DIC) have ruled themselves out of the running but a Nigerian company claim they have 350million behind them - and are bidding to secure the remaining funding which would improve their chances of a successful takeover.Chief Executive Officer of the NVA Management, Chris Nathaniel, whose company are handling the deal, wants to make Nigeria the first African country to own a Premier League club.He told www.KickOffNigeria.com: 'All along I have been working hard to get wealthy and football loving Nigerian entrepreneurs to buy the club since Mike Ashley indicated his willingness to sell the club to the person, people or entrepreneurs who can meet the 400million selling price of the club. 'Right now I am happy to tell you that well meaning Nigerians have responded and the consortium of Nigerian entrepreneurs has so far contributed 350million to buy the club. 'Ashley has stood his ground that he won't sell the club until the money is raised to the asking price of 400million. 'So what that means is that we need to raise another 50million or 100million to shut the door behind the other top Arab companies who are also interested in the club. 'The Arab companies have also indicated interest and made offers - but they haven't met the asking price too.'   EDITORS CHOICE  SCHOOLS in Bromsgrove have been targeted by callous thieves in a spate of metal thefts causing thousands of pounds worth of damage.  A PLAN to hand over the running of two popular leisure centres to a trust has collapsed due to differences in pay structures.  WORCESTERSHIRE has changed hugely in the last 150 years, and photographers from The Francis Frith Collection were there to record much of that change.  IN the town renowned for making the world's most famous gates a pair erected at the entrance to two new Bromsgrove schools could have come straight out of a horror film.  KEVIN Banner's return to Bromsgrove Rovers from Rugby Town has been confirmed.  YET another hole in one was achieved by an Ombersley Golf Club ladies member. 
