Don't miss Man City vs. Chelsea LIVE on Fox Soccer ChannelPetr Cech says the Chelsea squad are determined to show Robinho he made a mistake in joining Manchester City when the two teams do battle.Robinho is in line to make his City debut this weekend at Eastlands against the club he was strongly linked with all summer.Barclays Premier LeagueSat., Sep. 13Blackburn vs. ArsenalFulham vs. BoltonLiverpool vs. Man UtdMan City vs. Chelsea*Newcastle vs. Hull*Portsmouth vs. M'brough*West Brom vs. West HamWigan vs. SunderlandSun., Sep. 14Stoke vs. Everton*Mon., Sep. 15Tottenham vs. Aston Villa*Airs on FSC or Watch on demandCity beat Chelsea to Robinho's signature on transfer deadline day in a sensational British transfer record swoop.Robinho had been hoping to secure a move to Chelsea from Real Madrid before City's late swoop - and Cech says he and his team-mates will show the Brazilian he was wrong in choosing City above Chelsea.'In the morning he says he loves Chelsea and wants to be part of Chelsea and a few hours later he signs for another club,' Cech told Sky Sports News.'It was his decision. He needs to play well for Manchester City and we want to show him on Saturday he made a decision that is not perfect for him really.'Despite snubbing Stamford Bridge for Eastlands, Cech believes Robinho could be a success in the Premier League.'He is a great player and the sort of player who can entertain people so for the Premier League maybe he is good, but we will see how he is going to cope with the pressure now,' added Cech.Cech also spoke of his sadness of seeing team-mate Michael Essien ruled out of action for a lengthy period.Essien is expected to be sidelined for several months after suffering a cruciate knee ligament injury on international duty with Ghana.Cech admits it is a blow for Chelsea, but he believes they have a big enough squad to cope without the former Lyon man.'It is a blow because he has been a great player for us since he came, but we have a large squad and we need to cope with that,' he added. 'I wish him a speedy recovery because we will all need him.'
