LONDON, Sept 25 (Reuters) - Sterling hit a one-month high against a broadly falling dollar on Thursday, as the greenback remained under pressure on continued jitters over the U.S. government&amp;#039;s plan to bail out its ailing financial sector.    Sterling&amp;#039;s gains were entirely dollar-driven, analysts said, as poor UK economic fundamentals play second fiddle to the latest financial market storm.    The dollar was weighed down as investors remained nervous while U.S. authorities scrambled to   broker  a deal with Congress to implement its $700 billion plan.    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s still the dollar story,&amp;#039; said Paul Robinson, chief sterling strategist at Barclays Capital.    U.S. President George W. Bush appealed to the public on Wednesday, saying the country was in the middle of a serious financial crisis that could push the economy into a long-term recession if the government did not act.    The bailout plan is still expected to be approved later this week, but details of how the government will buy toxic assets from banks remains murky.    In addition, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke indicated on Wednesday that risks to growth may now be greater than inflation, bolstering the view that the Fed may lower its benchmark interest rates again by year-end.    At 0744 GMT, the pound was up 0.8 percent at $1.8615, after rising to a one-month high of $1.8671.    But sterling&amp;#039;s upside was capped by expectations that British interest rates would be cut later in the year to support a flagging economy.    Markets will be closely watching remarks by Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) member Kate Barker to gauge the timing of the next rate move.    Barker speaks at the North West Chief Executives Club Lunch.    &amp;#039;The next move (for UK interest rates) is down, but the timing is up in the air. We expect it to be in November, but it could easily happen in October,&amp;#039; said Barclays&amp;#039; Robinson.    MPC member Andrew Sentance said late on Wednesday that Britain&amp;#039;s economy has slowed sharply and could begin to contract in the second half of this year or early in 2009.    However, he said the downturn was unlikely to last as long as previous recessions and predicted the economy could be on a recovery track by the second half of next year.    (Reporting by Tamawa Kadoya; editing by Stephen Nisbet) Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/OPEN    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com    ak    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
