SYDNEY, Sept 5 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar slid to a 25-month low against the yen on Friday after investors dumped high-yielding currencies as a wave of risk aversion gripped global financial markets.    * Australian bond futures surged, buoyed by safe-haven inflows, but other asset classes from commodities to stocks suffered on mounting concerns about slowing global economic growth.    * Those worries, along with signs that the U.S. jobs market remained sluggish, saw Wall Street stocks tumble 3 percent on Thursday and encouraged edgy investors to unwind leveraged carry trades.    * The Australian dollar fell to 85.84 yen , its lowest since July 2006, and down 5 percent from 90.38 yen late here on Thursday, but recovered somewhat to around 87 yen.    * The Aussie  extended losses to fresh one-year lows against the U.S. currency, easing to $0.8100, before recovering some ground to $0.8160 by 9:30 a.m. (2330 GMT).    * The Aussie was also weighed down by lower commodities which continued to lose ground on expectations a slowing global economy would dent demand for resources. Those worries have seen investors unwind the long commodities/short U.S. dollar trade, giving a boost to the greenback.    * The U.S. dollar was also supported by expectations that economies outside the United States were starting to see a sharp slowdown caused by the global credit crunch.    * The European Central Bank (ECB) held interest rates steady, but President Jean-Claude Trichet said economic data pointed to weakening growth at mid-year while inflation remained high and risks were to the upside. [nSP15681].    * The Bank of England also kept rates unchanged but did nothing to douse expectations that recession worries will prompt a cut before the end of the year [ID:nL4343600].    * Earlier this week, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) lowered the cash rate by 25 basis points to support rapidly cooling consumer demand.    * Australian bond futures jumped on the renewed flight to safety. Three-year bond futures  climbed 0.09 points to 94.45, while the 10-year bond contract  jumped 0.115 points to rise to 94.37.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
