TOKYO, Sept 12 (Reuters) - The yen held steady near a two-year high against the euro and stayed firm against other major currencies on Friday as investors awaited more news about Lehman Brothers ahead of a long weekend in Japan.    The dollar stayed near a one-year high against the euro on fears the global economy, especially outside the United States, would slow down.    The yen had slid sharply in late New York trade on Thursday on reports that Lehman Brothers was in talks about a possible sale, with Bank of America or Barclays named as potential suitors.    The reports drove a last-minute rebound in Wall Street shares, but follow-through gains in Asian bourses were notably sluggish.    Concerns over the state of Asian stock markets in the longer term kept investors away from risk and carry trades, in which the low-yielding yen has been used to fund investments in higher-yielding currencies and assets.    &amp;#039;Intensifying worries about the global economy, especially emerging markets, are what&amp;#039;s driving the market, pushing up the dollar and the yen with its low risk premium,&amp;#039; said Hideki Amikura, deputy general manager of the forex section at Nomura Trust Bank.    &amp;#039;And more news about the fate of Lehman Brothers could make market moves even more volatile,&amp;#039; he said.    Traders said any new developments regarding Lehman could alleviate worries about the U.S. financial sector woes spreading, ease risk aversion and prompt investors to sell the yen.    The Washington Post reported on Thursday that the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve were engineering a sale of Lehman Brothers through a consortium of private firms. [ID:nN09324233]    It said the announcement of a Lehman sale could come before Asian markets open on Monday, when Japanese markets will be closed for a national holiday.    The euro was flat against the yen at 150.13 yen after rebounding sharply from Thursday&amp;#039;s low of 147.52 yen hit on trading platform EBS, the lowest since August 2006.    The yen edged higher across the board, pushing the New Zealand dollar, one of the high-yielding currencies favoured in yen carry trades, down 0.5 percent to 70.05 yen and back towards Thursday&amp;#039;s low of 68.49 yen, its weakest in more than two years.    The kiwi dropped 0.6 percent to $0.6535 as domestic retail sales fell in July and reinforced views that the nation&amp;#039;s central bank will lower interest rates further after slashing them to 7.5 percent on Thursday. It touched a two-year low of $0.6438 in the previous day&amp;#039;s trade.    Traders said a deteriorating global economic outlook and a jump in market volatility convinced U.S. investors to close their overseas investments and secure cash, giving a boost to the dollar.    &amp;#039;The dollar has been the major beneficiary of the de-risking process, as U.S. investors, perhaps the most active cross border investors, bring capital home,&amp;#039; Morgan Stanley currency analysts said in a research note.    &amp;#039;But if the trend broadens and continues, the currencies most likely to benefit are those of economies with current account surpluses. We believe we are already seeing some evidence of this on yen crosses,&amp;#039; they added.    The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.4007 after rebounding from a one-year low of $1.3882 hit on Thursday, helped partly by comments by European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet that inflation remains the bank&amp;#039;s key focus.    The dollar edged up 0.1 percent against the yen to 107.20 yen.    (Additional reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro)    .    lw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
