SYDNEY, Sept 3 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar steadied on Wednesday, after tumbling to one-year lows in offshore trade, ahead of GDP numbers which are likely to show that economic growth cooled in the last quarter, hurt by the global credit crunch.    * Second-quarter gross domestic product (GDP) numbers at 11:30 a.m. (0130 GMT) are expected to show growth slowed to 0.4 percent in the quarter, from 0.6 percent in the first quarter, as consumers cut back on spending.    * The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut its key cash rate by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent on Tuesday, as expected, but kept the market guessing on the policy outlook.    * Futures  have trimmed chances of a rate cut in October, with investors now pricing an 80 percent chance of a reduction having fully priced a move at the start of the week.    * By 9:15 a.m., the Aussie dollar  was at $0.8360/64 against the U.S. dollar, down from $0.8460/61 late here on Tuesday and just off a fresh one-year low of $0.8270 struck offshore.    * The Aussie extended losses offshore, hurt by a slide in commodities and the first domestic rate cut in seven years. Investors continued to unwind the once-popular commodities/short U.S. dollar trade, boosting the greenback.    * Australia is a big exporter of natural resources and booming demand for commodities has supported the country&amp;#039;s growth in recent years.    * The Aussie also remained under pressure against the yen  as risk appetite continued to suffer amid a bleak outlook for global growth. It fell a five-month low of 89.80 yen in offshore trade before recovering some ground to 90.80 yen.    * Australian bonds were lower after the central bank disappointed investors by not sounding as dovish as many investors had expected when it released a statement accompanying the rate decision on Tuesday.    * Three-year bond futures  eased 0.01 points to 94.365, while the 10-year bond contract  also slipped by 0.01 points to 94.325.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
