WASHINGTON - As bad as Friday's grim government report on economic growth was, it points to even worse times ahead. The collapse of exports, industrial production and the inability of companies to sell their products all portend an even deeper contraction as the U.S. and global economies sink further in the weeks and months ahead.  The Commerce Department reported the U.S. economy contracted 3.8 percent in the final three months of last year, the biggest such quarterly shrinkage in almost 27 years.  Economists had been expecting a contraction of 5.5 percent or more, and after the initial cheer Friday the number was quickly determined to be less than advertised.  That's because business inventories - the goods that retailers couldn't sell to consumers and manufacturers - skewed Friday's report on the nation's gross domestic product. Inventories swung from a $30 billion reduction in the third quarter of 2008 to a buildup of more than $6 billion in the final three months. Consumers were on strike, and companies couldn't get rid of goods. 'The increase in inventories means that growth in the current quarter will be worse than previously expected; probably closer to negative 5 percent. The worst of the downturn wasn't in our past, it is in our future,' said Mark Zandi, chief economist for forecaster Moody's Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.  When inventories are subtracted from the equation, the contraction in U.S. economic growth was 5.1 percent, the low end of the dismal range that economists had expected. It's also the amount by which Zandi and other economists think the U.S. economy will contract in the first three months of this year.  Christy Caridi, an economist who teaches at Marist College, agreed the GDP numbers show trouble ahead.  The inventory readings were very high, meaning the warehouses and shelves are packed. Makers of products 'are going to have to cut production and sell off that inventory before they can start any production. 'When they overestimate demand, the first thing they do is cut employment and cut hours, or some combination of the two,' Caridi said. The ripple effect of the economy has spread from the national level to the Hudson Valley, with stores such as Circuit City, KB Toys and Linens 'N-Things closing and businesses laying off workers, such as IBM cutting up to 900 jobs in Dutchess County this week.  A month from now, when the GDP number is revised, it will likely be downward, Caridi said. And, when the first quarter of 2009 is reported, that will be another down quarter, she predicted. 'The worst is not behind us,' she said. While the GDP drop is the worst in decades, it's not as bad as it was during the Great Depression, said Sean Masaki Flynn, an assistant professor of economics at Vassar College and author of 'Economics for Dummies.' His forecast is: 'Shrinkage won't last past the middle of 2009. By June or September of this year, we'll hit bottom and start growing.' The job market will take longer than that to recover fully, perhaps another 18 months to two years. However, he said the GDP number isn't as scary when it's properly understood. 'I think one thing people need to keep in mind is that it's an annualized rate. That 3.8 percent should be divided by four when you think about what happened between two quarters,' he said. It's thus about 0.9 percent down from one quarter to the next.  He gave this illustration: 'If in the third quarter, you got $100, this means you got $99 and 10 cents' in the fourth quarter. 'Obviously we'd rather have the economy growing than shrinking,' Flynn said. But the problem, he said, is the impact of declining GDP is not distributed equally. 'Some people really take it in the mouth,' as is the case with the person who loses a job.  Behind the buildup in inventories is the American consumer, bruised and battered, retrenching for better days and on the sidelines for the foreseeable future. 'With unemployment rising and incomes weakening, we expect consumption spending will fall again in the first quarter,' Gary Bigg, a Bank of America economist, said in a research note. Consumers drive about two-thirds of all U.S. economic activity.  The fourth-quarter decline in the GDP follows a 0.5 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2008. The National Bureau of Economic Research has said the U.S. economy entered a recession in December 2007.  Presuming it lasts beyond May, which virtually all economists now expect, this recession will be the longest and perhaps deepest period of economic decline in the United States since the Great Depression.  In a statement, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Christina Romer, said Friday's numbers indicated clearly the U.S. recession was worsening. 'The large decline confirms the evidence from other indicators, such as payroll employment and the unemployment rate, that the U.S. economy continues to contract severely,' she said. 'Aggressive, well-designed fiscal stimulus is critical to reversing this severe decline and putting the economy on the road to recovery and improved long-run growth.' The House of Representatives has passed an economic stimulus bill, which includes spending provisions and tax cuts that will cost the taxpayers more than $819 billion. The Senate will begin voting on its version next week. Congressional leaders in both parties have promised to send a stimulus bill to President Barack Obama by mid-February.
