SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Australian business confidence slumped to a fresh record low in January while business conditions also dropped sharply as the economy edged toward its first recession since the early 1990s, according to a survey by National Australia Bank released Tuesday.  Business confidence fell 12 points in January from December to a record low index of -32 points, NAB said. Meanwhile, business conditions fell 5 points to an index reading of -11 points in January from December.  The slumps in January raise the prospect that unemployment will start to rise at a faster pace in 2009 and suggests that the first round of fiscal stimulus by the government in late 2008 had only a fleeting impact on economic activity. 'The results of the January business survey reinforce the view that the government's package provided only temporary relief and the situation domestically continues to fundamentally deteriorate,' said Alan Oster, chief economist at NAB.  Treasurer Wayne Swan announced in October A$10.4 billion in fiscal stimulus, the bulk of which made it ways into the pockets of consumers in early December.  The government announced a second wave of stimulus last week amounting to A$ 41.5 billion over four years. The new package emerged as the Reserve Bank of Australia cuts its official cash rate target to a 45-year-low of 3.25%.  NAB said falls in confidence and business conditions were broad based, with retailing and wholesaling among the worst hit. Confidence among wholesalers was -51 points in January, a record low.  Export sales deteriorated markedly further by 8 points to -33 index points in January - its lowest reading in both the monthly and quarterly surveys, NAB said. Exports were driven down by very large drops in both mining and manufacturing exports.  Total sales growth slowed due to a lack of domestic and to a greater extent external demand, despite the recent domestic policy stimulus and fall in the Australian dollar, it said.  One ray of hope emerged in the area of forward orders which recorded an index reading of -20 points in January, up 4 points from December. While an improvement, the index remains at levels not seen since December 1991.  At the same time, capital spending continued to fall in January, while capacity utilization continued to contract.  NAB's Oster forecast the Australian economy will contract in 2009 by 0.25%, with growth in 2010 likely to be still sluggish around 1%.  To further bolster the economy against the global financial crisis the RBA is likely to cut interest rates a further 75 basis points at its next meeting March, but then pause, he said.  Weaker job market indicators will then likely bring the RBA off the sidelines again by mid-2009, forcing official interest rates down to an unprecedented 2%.
