Business confidence reversed December's gains and tumbled to a record low in January with the outlook for employment and forward orders hitting recessionary levels.  Companies' confidence dropped to minus-32 index points last month, a new low for the 12-year history of the National Australia Bank's survey. That compared with December's improvement to minus-20, following November's minus-30 reading.  The index has now been in negative territory since January last year, indicating pessimists outnumber optimists in the survey.  ''It needs to be noted that the survey was largely completed on the Monday prior to the announcement of the Government's new fiscal package and the RBA's rate cut,'' said NAB group chief economist Alan Oster in a statement. ''As such confidence may have improved a touch since then.''  The Government announced a fresh $42 billion stimulus plan last week on the same day the Reserve Bank lopped another percentage point from the interest rate, bringing it to a 45-year low of 3.25%, in an effort to keep the local economy expanding in the face of a global slowdown.  Money markets are predicting the RBA will continue to cut rates, pricing in another half-percentage point cut in March to 2.75%, according to Credit Suisse.  According to a separate report, about one in four firms expects to cut staff in the June quarter as the slowdown bites, according the Dun &amp; Bradstreet business expectations survey also released this morning.  Recession levels  ''The fact remains, however, that even on last month's reading confidence was already at levels at or below the bottom of the early 1990s recession,'' Mr Oster said.  Despite the drop in business confidence, NAB is sticking with its forecast that the economy will endure only a mild recession before returning to growth next year. The bank is predicting GDP will shrink 0.25% in 2009 and growth 1% next year.  According to the NAB survey, employment remains as weak as it had been during the recession of early 1992 at minus-17 index points.  The Australian Bureau of Statistic will release official January unemployment data on Thursday, with economists expecting the jobless rate to hit 4.7% from its current 4.5% with 18,000 positions lost for the month.  Forward orders edged up four points, the survey said, ''but, at minus-20 index points, is still at levels not seen since December 1991.''  As the demand for commodities exports drops, capital spending continues to fall, hitting minus-21 in January. Mining and resource companies are paring back production as orders shrivel at home and abroad.  Conditions grim  Business conditions also slumped in January, hitting minus-11 index points, from minus-6 in December, the NAB survey said, undoing half of the boost seen in December, as the October stimulus effect worked its way through the economy.  ''In broad terms around half the kick up in business conditions in December were lost in January - with the same areas affected,'' the report said.  Trading conditions contracted minus-7 in January after increasing by 17 points in December, according to the report.  ''Also it is worth noting sectors that did not appear to benefit much from the December package - manufacturing, construction transport and mining fell further in January,'' the report said.  Exports drop  ''While much of the downturn to date has driven out of the domestic economy, the survey is increasingly showing signs of the impact of global forces,'' the report said.  ''Thus while we have not been collecting data on export sales - only since February 2001... the trends that have emerged in recent months are quite stark and concerning.''  Exports dropped 8 index points to minus-33 points in January, a swoon of 23 points in the last two months alone, the report says.  The Reserve Bank and bank economists have grown increasingly focused on the effect China's economic slump will have on the local economy. Since July, commodities prices have crumbled, reflecting lower growth expectations for the global economy.  The price of commodities has retreated from a record high reading on the Reuters Jefferies index of 473.5 index points at the beginning of July to the low 200s, in recent months.  The broad reading of the commodities index, closed at 223.9 index points yesterday, down more then 50% from July.  
