THE Commonwealth Bank will tighten borrowing rules for first-home buyers to insist they contribute at least 3 per cent of the purchase price in their own money, in addition to any available government grants.  The move is in response to growing industry concerns about the quality of loans to the fast-growing, first-home buyer market and is in anticipation of interest-rate hikes in coming years, due to the expected inflationary impact of the large, recent increase in household income.   Currently, government grants of up to $14,000 for an existing home and $21,000 for a new home mean some first-home buyers can purchase dwellings with a 5-10 per cent deposit and no cash contribution of their own. 'Customers who have skin in the game in terms of their own funds are more committed to continue their repayments,' CBA group executive retail banking services, Ross McEwan, told The Australian. 'So in the next couple of weeks, we're implementing a policy to require borrowers to contribute a minimum of 3 per cent (of the purchase price) on top of any government grant.' The move by Australia's biggest home lender follows recent cuts to the amount that ANZ and National Australia Bank will lend to borrowers as a proportion of property value.   NAB last month cut its maximum loan-to-valuation ratio from 100 to 95 per cent, while ANZ in November reduced the proportion it would lend to mortgagees from 95 to 90 per cent. 'In response to the softening in the economic environment, we have been tightening lending standards in recent months because as a responsible lender, we do not want customers in a situation where they are over-extended,' an ANZ spokesman said.   But the CBA is already looking beyond the downturn.   As standard variable rates plunge to their lowest level in almost four decades, following a 400 basis-point easing in monetary policy since last September, the CBA is preparing for an inevitable turn in the cycle.   Mr McEwan said the bank's mortgage serviceability buffer had been tightened to ensure that customers could still meet their repayment obligations if interest rates rose by 2.25 percentage points. This was higher than the previous buffer of 1.5 percentage points. 'Home owners in Australia have a very good track record of keeping up their repayments under various scenarios,' Mr McEwan said. 'What we want to avoid is a US-type situation, where people with low-interest loans got caught out when interest rates started to rise.' The move will be interpreted by some as credit rationing, in an environment where the cost and availability of wholesale funding remain under pressure.   But Mr McEwan said this was not the case, pointing to the bank's proven ability to raise funds, as well as its appetite for residential lending that was demonstrated by a rising market share over the past 21 months.   Home lending, he said, had remained strong over Christmas and last month, with market share picking up by 26 basis points in December.   The CBA chief said the real motivation for the measure was prudent credit policy in an environment where interest rates would eventually rise. 'The buffer needs to be extended for a situation when inflation starts to pick up and interest rates rise,' he said. Meanwhile, the CBA will roll back its fees for customers using other banks' ATMs, dubbed 'foreign ATMs'. Additional reporting: Blair Speedy
