The Australian economy will fall into a moderate recession in 2009, as first quarter growth stalls, with business confidence returning to record lows in January, a key economic indicator shows. The National Australia Bank (NAB) Monthly Business Survey for January, released on Tuesday, showed business confidence had returned to record lows and domestic demand was expected to remain steady, or fall slightly, in the first quarter of 2009. 'We have not changed our Australian forecasts - for a moderate recession in 2009. For 2009, we expect GDP (gross domestic product) to shrink by 1/4 per cent - with a number of negative quarters during the year,' the NAB said on Tuesday. 'With no recovery till late 2009, the 2010 GDP forecasts remain at one per cent (but zero in 2009/10 versus the government's 3/4 per cent).' The survey predicted a federal deficit of $50 billion in the 2009/10, and unemployment at seven per cent by late 2010. The central bank is likely to cut interest rates to two per cent, the survey found, predicting the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to cut rates by 75 points next meeting, and a further 50 points in mid-2009. The RBA cut the official cash rate by 100 basis points to a record low of 3.25 per cent at its February board meeting last week. The NAB said the survey had been completed before the rate cut and the government's new $42 billion fiscal package and 'confidence may have improved a touch since then.' Nonetheless, 'even on last month's reading, confidence was already at levels at or below the bottom of the 1990s recession.' The latest survey showed business conditions had fallen five points to -11 points, and forward orders and employment were at recessionary lows. 'There has clearly been a particularly sharp fall in manufacturing and construction, finance, property and business services, and transport,' NAB said. 'Retail is the only sector moving higher, but that very much reflects the government's stimulus package and is not expected to be sustained. 'Mining is also moving down significantly but activity levels are still somewhat higher than confidence and future orders.' Confidence levels have fallen in all states in recent months, with the resource-rich Western Australia and Queensland hit especially hard. Confidence in Victoria has been down, the NAB says, while New South Wales has tended to go sideways in recent months. 
