WARSAW, Feb 19 (Reuters) - Poland's industrial output fell for the third consecutive month in January as a global economic downturn hit exports to its main trading partner, the European Union.   Production fell 14.9 percent in January compared with a year earlier, a sharper drop than both the 11.5 percent decline expected by analysts and the 4.4 percent fall reported in December, statistics office data showed on Thursday. 'This data...confirms that the slowdown is connected with the slump in exports which can be seen in the manufacturing sector,' said Piotr Kalisz, chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in Warsaw.  Deteriorating economic prospects were the key factor behind the Monetary Policy Council's decision to cut interest rates at both its December and January meeting, by 75 basis points each time to leave the key rate at 4.25 percent. 'I think our previous expectations on a 50 basis points cut (at the February meeting) may materialise, though a 25 bps cut is also possible,' said Mateusz Szczurek, chief economist at ING bank in Warsaw.  Analysts say the central bank is unlikely to deliver deeper interest rate cuts to support sluggish growth given officials' concern that the weakening zloty may fuel inflation. 'The Monetary Policy Council (MPC) will certainly focus on the recent dramatic zloty fall so eagerness to cut rates sharply will probably be much lower,' Monika Kurtek analyst at BPH bank wrote in a note to clients.  The zloty has fallen by about 12 percent against the euro since the beginning of the year, sliding along with other currencies in eastern Europe due to concern about financing and a collapse in growth in their export-dependent economies.  The sharp zloty fall has been stopped on Tuesday, when a ruling party official said Poland has already started official talks on entering pre-euro Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM-2) and the government exchanged euros from European Union funds on the foreign exchanges.  At 1440 GMT the zloty traded at 4.6575 against the euro or about 2 percent above Thursday opening. 
