 The contest for The Biggest Loser' went into full swing as bad news continued to flow. Right on the heels of the Eurozone's 1.5 per cent economic contraction in the fourth quarter, Japan's weigh in showed that its economy lost more, down 3.3 per cent in the three months to December. Never mind the for extra effect' ANNUALISED contraction of 12.7 per cent reported in the papers, Japan's economy had never contracted this much since 1974.  The UK has weighed in earlier in the year and reported that it has shed 1.5 per cent in the last quarter of 2008. But not to be outdone, the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) predicts that UK economic growth could fall by 3.3 per cent this year - more than the 2.8 per cent decline forecast by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) a little over a month ago.  The German Institute for Economic Research (DIW) expects Germany's economy to decrease by more than 3 per cent this year, also worse than the IMF's prediction for a 2.5 per cent contraction.  What about the US? Its economy contracted by just 1 per cent in the December quarter but this is still subject to two more revisions. Recent data out of America suggests that the IMF forecasts of a 1.6 per cent decline in real GDP for 2009 might also need to be downgraded.  I have said many times over the past few months that the longer the global financial crisis remains unresolved, the more economies it will claim, the more pronounced the pain. And so it wasand so it shall be.  Australia is not, repeat NOT, in recessionyet. Despite the prevalence of gloomy forecasts and surveys, domestic demand continues to hold up well as evidenced by Wesfarmers' announcement of a 46.3 per cent increase in net profit for the half-year ended 31 December 2008. Wesfarmers' resources division accounted for the bulk of the lift in profits but its retail businesses also did especially well given what are supposedly tough economic conditions. Bunnings' earnings jumped by 13.8 per cent during the period, sales at Officeworks went up by 3.9 per cent and Target's comparable store sales climbed by 4 per cent.  Likewise, the Housing Industry Association and Commonwealth Bank First Home Buyer Affordability index improved by 39.2 per cent in the December quarter, taking housing to its most affordable level in five years.  These are some examples of how the monetary (lower interest rates) and fiscal (government stimulus package) mechanisms are being transmitted much more quickly in Australia than in our neighbours. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) is expected to drop lending rates further. The Federal Government's latest stimulus package has been passed by Parliament and would start to work its way into the economy next month. These could only be good news.  But Australia's resilience will continue to be tested in the months ahead. As global economies sink deeper into recession, global demand steps down a notch, production and investment slows and eventually find its way to our shores. As the global financial crisis lingers, even profitable companies - Australian or otherwise - will continue to find it challenging to scavenge for liquidity.  Australia still could not afford to be complacent, not while the biggest and bigger nations of the world are shedding their economic heft. Given Australia's performance to date, it may not even figure in the Biggest Loser Competition. And this is a good thing.
