 1:00 pm  The 's latest survey has revealed the number of pessimistic businesses in the economy has reached a record level.  Business confidence plunged to a new low in January after the fiscal stimulus package delivered brief respite in December. The 's (ASX: NAB.ax) monthly business confidence index tumbled 12 points to negative 32.  December saw a jump in confidence after the Federal Government's first stimulus package but the NAB's chief economist, Alan Oster, says that has been more than reversed in January. 'Business has seen the Government's initiative go through and it hasn't lasted in to January,' he said. 'What we're seeing here is that it's showing up in sales, it's showing up in profits, but it's not showing up at all in employment and it's not showing up in capital spending or new orders. 'So if you like what you're doing is essentially you're keeping the economy essentially afloat until you can get the infrastructure spending going.' NAB has not changed its economic forecasts, with the economy shrinking by a quarter in 2009 and the unemployment rate expected to hit 7 per cent by late next year. survey A survey by  also paints a gloomy picture.  The survey shows almost 60 per cent of businesses say difficulty in accessing credit has negatively affected them.  More than half of businesses surveyed expect sales and profits to slide during the June quarter and one-quarter of them expect to cut staff. 's chief executive, Christine Christian, says almost all sizes of businesses are feeling the crunch. 'Credit and financial risks have increased markedly since the  fully erupted in October 2008 and so as a result we're seeing the economy across the board weaken further,' she said. 'Many businesses in Australia are experiencing severe cash-flow problems. 'Capital has just become so scarce that businesses are doing all that they can to preserve their cash and that's had a marked flow-on affect right across the business community.' More Quotes and Company Information:NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LIMITED (ASX: NAB.ax) Limited (NZX: NAB.nz)
