INTEREST rates on some bank overdrafts for business are higher than they were a year ago, despite extensive cuts to the Reserve Bank's cash rate.  Most standard variable business loans are only marginally better.  These expensive loans are pushing small business to the wall as trade slumps and cash flow evaporates.  While relieved mortgagors have watched monthly payments plummet in recent months, business customers banking with Suncorp and IMB have been paying more to service their loans.  In February last year, customers with a Suncorp small business overdraft were paying 9.44 per cent in interest.  The rate on that product is currently 10.04 per cent, an increase of 60 basis points when the RBA's cash rate has decreased 375 basis points - or 3.75 per cent - during the same period.  IMB's secured business overdraft is a bigger offender, with its interest rate up, from 10.25 per cent to 10.99 per cent in a year.  The major banks have all moved their overdraft rates lower, but only marginally.  Customers with an NAB business overdraft have seen their rates come down 0.62 per cent, but well short of the Commonwealth Bank's 1.33 per cent drop and Westpac's 1.34 per cent fall.  NAB is yet to pass a single cent of savings to its business customers in 2009, despite the RBA cutting its cash rate by one per cent on February 3.  For standard business loans, lenders on average have only passed on 1.5 per cent of the four per cent trim to the Reserve Bank's cash rate. Suncorp, which has failed to pass on any interest rate cuts to its business customers this year, still offers a rate of 8.94 per cent on its small business term loan.  Since the RBA's extended run of downward rate movements, the Suncorp product has only seen a 1.1 per cent trim.  Citibank's movements are not much better. Its commercial standard variable loan is only 0.19 per cent under the rate offered 12 months ago.  Of the major banks, the worst offender is the NAB, which has only cut 0.62 per cent off its business options loan since last February.  The sector absorbing the majority of pain from excessive loan rates is small business. Many of Australia's two million small businesses have been caught up in the bank squeeze, with owners paying high interest and struggling to secure cash flows -- and jobs.  A Council of Small Business spokesman said small companies continued to cop the brunt of a financial fallout that was out of their hands.  The council has continually urged banks to do the fair thing and pass on rate cuts to ease the burden.  'The government continues to provide legislative protection for the banks, yet those same banks refuse to pass on interest rate cuts to small business,' he said.  'Small business is the biggest employer in the economy and without the rate cuts, there will be higher numbers of retrenchments.  'The Prime Minister has urged business leaders to protect jobs - he should especially target the management and leadership of banks: perhaps he could force them, through legislation, to provide small businesses with the rate cuts they need.  'The banks cannot have it both ways - gaining protection from the Australian Government, but then giving nothing in return.'  Council officials met the Australian Bankers Association (ABA) last week to lobby for fair lending practices.  ABA chief executive David Bell said high interest business loans were necessary because small businesses generally deteriorated faster than households, in gloomy economic times.  'It is true that banks' business customers have not seen the same level of pass-through on interest rates, as provided to home borrowers,' he said.  'The reason for this is that banks have to prudently manage risk in their loan books and, generally speaking, some business loans are risky.'  Reserve Bank statistics from the last quarter seem to support the ABA.  They show the level of defaults on business loans was five times higher than the level of home loan defaults.  An ANZ spokeswoman said banks protect themselves from what is a riskier lending practice, by having higher rates on business loans.  'Wholesale funding costs have remained high and volatile since the onset of the financial crisis,' she said.  'Also, we have had to increase provisioning for expected losses in this sector because of the changing economic conditions. This is normal during an economic downturn.'  
