At a time when interest rates are sinking towards zero around the world, the biggest currency traders are recommending countries that have the largest trade surpluses, led by Japan, Norway and Switzerland.  BNP Paribas says the yen will rise about 14 per cent against the US dollar by June. Goldman Sachs Group made Norway's krone one of its top 2009 picks, with possible gains of 17 per cent versus the dollar. Bank of America, the largest US lender by assets, says the Swiss franc will advance against every major currency.  The currencies of countries with trade surpluses are seen as safer because their governments do not have to brave credit markets in a year when sovereign bond sales are likely to exceed US$3 trillion. Retail investors in Hong Kong have not switched away from high-yield currencies despite successive interest-rates cuts, and have been taking advantage of the rising volatility in the foreign-exchange market.  'Recently forex has been increasingly regarded as an asset class by investors in Hong Kong. This is because of the liquidity and transparency of the forex market vis-a-vis other markets during the financial crisis,' says Steve Nutland, French investment bank Calyon's head of forex for Asia.  Currency-linked deposits remain popular among retail investors in Hong Kong and their top choices are still high-yielding currencies such as Australian dollars, euros and New Zealand dollars.  'The tide has turned,' says Jens Nordvig, a senior currency strategist at Goldman Sachs. 'Surplus currencies such as the franc and the yen are likely to perform well, while the deficit countries are pretty vulnerable.'  Switzerland's current-account surplus was 8 per cent of gross domestic product last year, while Japan's was 3.8 per cent and Norway's 16 per cent, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. That compares with deficits of 4.9 per cent of GDP in the US, 5.1 per cent in Australia and 9.5 per cent in New Zealand.  Buying the currencies of nations with the six largest trade surpluses and selling those with deficits returned 4 per cent last month, the most since October, according to Goldman Sachs's CA Outperformance index. The same wager would have lost 5.9 per cent in the six months through September.  'Markets tend to pay more attention to fundamental valuations in times of high volatility and uncertainty,' says Henrik Gullberg, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, the world's biggest foreign-exchange trader. The current account, the broadest measure of trade, 'goes into any fundamental valuation of a currency'.  The Australian dollar has weakened 6.3 per cent against the US dollar this year, after a 20 per cent slide in 2008. The yen is little changed, after appreciating 23 per cent. The Swiss franc has declined 6.5 per cent against the US dollar, compared with a 6.1 per cent advance.  'Switzerland has a double-digit current-account surplus in a world where interest-rate differentials are less important,' says David Powell, an analyst at Bank of America. 'The franc will rally across the board.'  The Swiss franc is widely estimated to rise 1 per cent this year. The yen will end the year 8.2 per cent weaker and the krone will advance 5.9 percent, separate surveys show. The Australian and New Zealand dollars are expected to be little changed.  Buying currencies with surpluses 'will gain more credibility as interest rates narrow', says Paresh Upadhyaya at Putnam Investments. 'Relative economic performance will become important.'  Mitul Kotecha, Calyon's head of global forex strategy, says: 'The worst performers last year included the British pound, New Zealand dollar, Norwegian krone and Australian dollar. By contrast, currencies such as the Japanese yen and to a lesser extent the Swiss franc made the most gains last year.  'Many investors now short the euro, pound, Australian dollar and New Zealand dollar. The best strategy at present in terms of spot currency moves is to remain short on these riskier currencies and long on the US dollar and yen.  'We expect this to reverse in the second half of 2009.'  Bloomberg, additional reporting by Amanda Lee  
