As buying slows, exports and manufacturing fall, businesses are stuck with inventory, aggravating the recession  McClatchy Newspapers  WASHINGTON: As bad as Friday's grim government report on economic growth was, it points to even worse times ahead. The collapse of exports and industrial production and the inability of companies to sell their products all portend an even deeper contraction as the U.S. and global economies sink further in the weeks and months ahead.  The Commerce Department reported that the U.S. economy contracted 3.8 percent in the final three months of last year, the biggest such quarterly shrinkage in almost 27 years.  Economists had been expecting a contraction of 5.5 percent or more, and after the initial cheer Friday, the number was quickly determined to be less than advertised.  That's because business inventories  the goods that retailers couldn't sell to consumers and manufacturers  skewed Friday's report on the nation's gross domestic product. Inventories swung from a $30 billion reduction in the third quarter of 2008 to a buildup of more than $6 billion in the final three months. Consumers were on strike, and companies couldn't get rid of goods.  ''The increase in inventories means that growth in the current quarter will be worse than previously expected; probably closer to negative 5 percent. The worst of the downturn wasn't in our past. It is in our future,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist for forecaster Moody's Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.  When inventories are subtracted from the equation, the contraction in U.S. economic growth was 5.1 percent, the low end of the dismal range that economists had expected. It's also the amount by which Zandi and other economists think that the U.S. economy will contract in the first three months of this year.  Behind the buildup in inventories is the American consumer, bruised and battered, retrenching for better days and  on the sidelines for the foreseeable future.  ''With unemployment rising and incomes weakening, we expect consumption spending will fall again in the first quarter,'' Gary Bigg, a Bank of America economist, said in a research note. Consumers drive about two-thirds of all U.S. economic activity.  The fourth-quarter decline in the GDP follows a 0.5 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2008. The National Bureau of Economic Research has said that the U.S. economy entered a recession in December 2007.  Presuming that it lasts beyond May, which virtually all economists now expect, this recession will be the longest and perhaps deepest period of economic decline in the United States since the Great Depression.  The chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Christina Romer, said Friday's numbers indicated clearly that the U.S. recession was worsening.  ''The large decline confirms the evidence from other indicators, such as payroll employment and the unemployment rate, that the U.S. economy continues to contract severely,'' she said. ''Aggressive, well-designed fiscal stimulus is critical to reversing this severe decline and putting the economy on the road to recovery and improved long-run growth.''  The House of Representatives has passed an economic stimulus bill, which includes spending provisions and tax cuts that will cost the taxpayers more than $819 billion. The Senate will begin voting on its version next week. Congressional leaders in both parties have promised to send a stimulus bill to President Barack Obama by mid-February.  For the economy as a whole, the 3.8 percent annualized drop was the weakest quarterly showing since a 6.4 percent plunge in the first quarter of 1982, when the country was suffering through a severe recession.  Last year, the economy grew just 1.3 percent. That was down from a 2 percent gain in 2007 and marked the slowest growth since the last recession in 2001. This year, analysts predict the economy will shrink anywhere from 2 to 2.5 percent, the worst performance since 1946.  Other signs of trouble were deeper in the GDP data.  The decline in automobile sales ''was particularly severe, accounting for 2 percentage points of the overall fall in GDP of 3.8 percent. This widespread decline emphasizes that the problems that began in our housing and financial sector have spread to nearly all areas of the economy,'' Romer said.  A sign of how the rising tide of global trade is receding in a global slowdown also was deep in the data.  ''As if to rub salt in the wound, gross exports plunged nearly 20 percent, a byproduct of recession in most foreign countries,'' Jay Bryson, a global economist with the national bank Wachovia, wrote in a research note to investors.  Just a day earlier, industrial production data pointed to a global downturn that's picking up steam. December orders for durable goods  big-ticket items that don't wear out, such as cars, electronic equipment and appliances  fell 2.6 percent from the previous month.  The decline in exports exacerbates the economic shutdown, particularly for the equipment industries that were until recently one of the few economic bright spots.  ''In the final three months of 2008, durable goods orders are 17 percent below the same period one year ago,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the research group Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''Orders for nondefense capital goods, excluding aircraft, an indicator of private equipment spending, fell 2.8 percent in December and for the fourth quarter were 7 percent below their level one year ago.''  WASHINGTON: As bad as Friday's grim government report on economic growth was, it points to even worse times ahead. The collapse of exports and industrial production and the inability of companies to sell their products all portend an even deeper contraction as the U.S. and global economies sink further in the weeks and months ahead.  The Commerce Department reported that the U.S. economy contracted 3.8 percent in the final three months of last year, the biggest such quarterly shrinkage in almost 27 years.  Economists had been expecting a contraction of 5.5 percent or more, and after the initial cheer Friday, the number was quickly determined to be less than advertised.  That's because business inventories  the goods that retailers couldn't sell to consumers and manufacturers  skewed Friday's report on the nation's gross domestic product. Inventories swung from a $30 billion reduction in the third quarter of 2008 to a buildup of more than $6 billion in the final three months. Consumers were on strike, and companies couldn't get rid of goods.  ''The increase in inventories means that growth in the current quarter will be worse than previously expected; probably closer to negative 5 percent. The worst of the downturn wasn't in our past. It is in our future,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist for forecaster Moody's Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.  When inventories are subtracted from the equation, the contraction in U.S. economic growth was 5.1 percent, the low end of the dismal range that economists had expected. It's also the amount by which Zandi and other economists think that the U.S. economy will contract in the first three months of this year.  Behind the buildup in inventories is the American consumer, bruised and battered, retrenching for better days and  on the sidelines for the foreseeable future.  ''With unemployment rising and incomes weakening, we expect consumption spending will fall again in the first quarter,'' Gary Bigg, a Bank of America economist, said in a research note. Consumers drive about two-thirds of all U.S. economic activity.  The fourth-quarter decline in the GDP follows a 0.5 percent contraction in the third quarter of 2008. The National Bureau of Economic Research has said that the U.S. economy entered a recession in December 2007.  Presuming that it lasts beyond May, which virtually all economists now expect, this recession will be the longest and perhaps deepest period of economic decline in the United States since the Great Depression.  The chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Christina Romer, said Friday's numbers indicated clearly that the U.S. recession was worsening.  ''The large decline confirms the evidence from other indicators, such as payroll employment and the unemployment rate, that the U.S. economy continues to contract severely,'' she said. ''Aggressive, well-designed fiscal stimulus is critical to reversing this severe decline and putting the economy on the road to recovery and improved long-run growth.''  The House of Representatives has passed an economic stimulus bill, which includes spending provisions and tax cuts that will cost the taxpayers more than $819 billion. The Senate will begin voting on its version next week. Congressional leaders in both parties have promised to send a stimulus bill to President Barack Obama by mid-February.  For the economy as a whole, the 3.8 percent annualized drop was the weakest quarterly showing since a 6.4 percent plunge in the first quarter of 1982, when the country was suffering through a severe recession.  Last year, the economy grew just 1.3 percent. That was down from a 2 percent gain in 2007 and marked the slowest growth since the last recession in 2001. This year, analysts predict the economy will shrink anywhere from 2 to 2.5 percent, the worst performance since 1946.  Other signs of trouble were deeper in the GDP data.  The decline in automobile sales ''was particularly severe, accounting for 2 percentage points of the overall fall in GDP of 3.8 percent. This widespread decline emphasizes that the problems that began in our housing and financial sector have spread to nearly all areas of the economy,'' Romer said.  A sign of how the rising tide of global trade is receding in a global slowdown also was deep in the data.  ''As if to rub salt in the wound, gross exports plunged nearly 20 percent, a byproduct of recession in most foreign countries,'' Jay Bryson, a global eco...
