GDP expected to be revised lower to show biggest loss since 1982 WASHINGTON (Menafn - MarketWatch) -- The U.S. economy is still getting worse, even as Washington's policy makers scramble to find the formula that will revitalize credit markets and consumer spending.  The economy will probably provide some more bad news over the coming week, with little prospect that the Federal Reserve chairman or the Treasury secretary will do much to bolster spirits.  The news from the flow of economic data should be disheartening. The estimate for fourth-quarter gross domestic product is likely to be revised lower to show at least a 5% annualized decline. Fresher data on housing, manufacturing, the jobs market and consumer confidence are expected to show little or no improvement.  All the economic data 'are on track to show that that the recession ... is getting worse with the floor yet to be seen,' wrote Lori Helwig, an economist for Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.  The week's biggest report, the GDP revision on Friday, could be ugly. Economists were expecting GDP to fall 5% when the first estimate came out last month, but were pleasantly surprised with a minus 3.8% reading. Still bad, but not horrendous.  However, it looks like they were right in the first place.   The government will release its second GDP estimate on Friday. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch are now expecting GDP to fall 5.5% at an annual rate, the worst since 1982. And they are expecting another decline in the same ballpark in the current quarter; the current estimate is a 4.8% drop. Since the late 1940s, GDP has never fallen by more than 5% two quarters in a row, and has fallen by more than 4% twice in a row only twice before. 'We continue to believe an unprecedented amount of monetary and fiscal stimulus will lead to a modest recovery during the second half of 2009, but it now looks as if the economic downturn towards the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009 will be sharper than initially suspected,' wrote Meny Grauman, an economist for CIBC World Markets.  The government statisticians don't have all the monthly data they need when they make their first estimate of economic growth, so they have to make educated guesses about foreign trade, construction spending and inventories. (Indeed, much of what's reported about the services side of the economy is also an educated guess, with reliable data available only on an annual basis, which is why GDP keeps getting revised long after anyone really cares.)  Some of the assumptions made by the government in the first pass appear 'to have been far too optimistic,' according to Stephen Stanley, chief economist for RBS Greenwich Capital. Usually, a too-optimistic estimate for trade might be offset by a too-pessimistic assumption on inventories, so they somewhat cancel out.   But this time, it appears the government was too optimistic on almost every key sector, as often happens when the economy is shrinking quickly.   The biggest changes are likely to come from inventories and from the foreign trade sector, which almost single-handedly kept GDP positive in the first half of 2008 even while the economy was in a recession. Strong exports offset weakness in domestic spending and investment.  But that's all changed. Global markets have now fallen into a sharp recession and aren't buying nearly as much American-made stuff.  The government also assumed more inventory stockpiling in the fourth quarter than has been reported in the updated monthly reports. That means inventories didn't contribute nearly as much to GDP as the 1.3 percentage points that was initially assumed.  That's good news going forward, because it means companies have less work to do in paring down their unwanted inventories this year. It means the economy can bounce back faster.  The typical recession is mostly an inventory correction cycle. Recessions begin with companies overstocking in anticipation of demand that never materializes, which leads them to cut back on employment and production temporarily until supplies and demand balance again.  The revision to GDP will probably also show less investment in equipment, software and structures. And consumer spending probably was weaker than initially assumed as well. Final domestic demand probably dropped at a 5.3% annual rate in the quarter, Greenwich's Stanley said. 'The revised fourth quarter readings for real GDP and real domestic demand that we project would each be the third worst in the last 50 years,' Stanley wrote in a weekly note to clients.  The manufacturing sector has been hit hard by the recession. New orders for durable goods, which haven't risen since July, are expected to fall 3.5% in January. Much of the decline is due to cutbacks by the automakers, but almost every sector has been hit by weak demand by consumers, foreign buyers, and U.S. businesses. 'January appears to have been a disastrous period for a number of industries,' Stanley wrote. 'Auto assemblies sank by 40% vs. December (that is not an annualized number or a typo) and the semiconductor industry's three-month moving average of bookings dropped by half from December.' Home sales are expected to decline again in January, economists said. Sales of new home are expected to hit a record-low seasonally adjusted annual rate of 320,000 annualized, compared with 331,000 in December. Sales of existing homes probably inched higher to 4.80 million annualized from 4.74 million as more foreclosed homes were sold in the West.
