NEWS - Citigroup in talks with federal officials which could see government holding up to 40 percent of stock, Wall Street Journal says - U.S. President Barack Obama promises strict oversight of U.S. stimulus, to name watchdog - White House statement on banks tempers nationalisation fears; U.S. Treasury says banks should stay privately owned - Crisis may be worse than Great Depression - Obama adviser Volcker - Obama wants to halve deficit by 2013 through raising taxes on wealthy, eliminating wasteful programmes and cutting Iraq spending - China considers steps to aid housing market - media - WTO chief says Buy American meets world trade rules - Thailand Q4 GDP shrinks 6.1 percent, worst in decades - UBS warns of dire consequences from U.S. tax battle - Stanford's customer accounts frozen; Stanford surrendered passport, keeps low profile - Euro zone economy slumps further in Feb - ECB talks down chances of cutting rates to zero - Germany's upper house approves stimulus package; finmin dismisses report on euro bond issues MARKETS - Nikkei turns positive after WSJ report on Citi - U.S. stock futures up on Citi report - Dollar falls against basket of major currencies. Euro stages sharp rebound - Government bond prices rise as risk aversion grows - U.S. oil slips below $40, dogged by economic worries - Spot gold falls 1 percent to $987.30 an ounce QUOTES 'It's a sign of relief that the (Citi) move at least removes some of the uncertainty around the banking sector. It confirms that markets have the greatest sensitivity to uncertainty in the banking sector ... it can be taken as a commitment that some banks are too big to fail and the economic consequences too bad to contemplate' - Tony Morriss, senior markets strategist, ANZ Investment Bank, Sydney 'I don't remember any time, maybe even in the Great Depression, when things went down quite so fast, quite so uniformly around the world' - Paul Volcker, a top adviser to Obama 'Nationalization is not a dirty word ... It's sometimes a tool and a way to restore a situation for a temporary period of time -- and then there's privatisation again' - French Economy Minister Christine Lagarde 'There's a little bit of panic out there. Equities are setting new lows and gold is the place to run to' - Robert MacIntosh, chief economist at Eaton Vance in Boston 'Risk tolerance of global investors is falling' - Takashi Kamiya, chief economist at T &amp; D Asset Management in Tokyo DIARY MONDAY, Feb. 23 PARIS - ECB's Trichet speaks at conference of Committee of European Securities Regulators at 0810 GMT. PARIS - French unions meet to decide response to government measures to boost economy. WASHINGTON - President Obama hosts 'fiscal summit' at White House with members of Congress, senior administration officials and various experts. From 1730 GMT. TUESDAY, Feb. 24 WASHINGTON - President Obama to address joint session of Congress on the $787 billion U.S. economic stimulus package. WASHINGTON - Japanese Prime Minister Aso meets Obama. ROME - Italian-French Summit. Prime Minister Berlusconi and President Sarkozy expected to attend. TOKYO - WTO Director-General Lamy visits Japan (to Thursday). MADRID/BRUSSELS - Deadline for Spain to reply to European Commission over plan to aid its auto sector. THURSDAY, Feb. 26 WASHINGTON - U.S. President Obama to release first budget proposal. (Compiled by World Desk Asia, +65 6870 3815) Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 0500 GMT COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
