SYDNEY, Feb 17 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar was subdued on Tuesday ahead of the release of the minutes from the Australian central bank's February policy meeting, which may provide clues on whether more interest rate cuts are in store.  * The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will release the minutes at 0030 GMT of its February meeting when it cut interest rates by 100 basis points to 3.25 percent.  * Aussie was defensive at $0.6496, little changed from $0.6495 seen here late on Monday with trading quiet due to a holiday in the United States.  * Local dollar also subdued against the safe-haven yen at 59.54 yen , compared to Monday's 59.40.  * Market still pricing in a cut of around 50 basis points in March  but some analysts suspect the RBA would prefer to pause and gauge the effect of its easing to date.  * The RBA has cut rates by a massive 400 basis points since September to prevent Australia from falling into a recession, defined as two straight quarters of economic contraction.  * Still, the RBA earlier this month cut its growth forecast for the Australian economy to just 0.5 percent this year from 1.75 percent in November.  * A bleak outlook for the world economy continued to weigh on markets after Japan's economy sank last quarter into its sharpest contraction since the oil crisis in the 1970s. [nTOPWRAP]  * Oil prices slipped below $37 a barrel as investors focused on slumping oil demand. [O/R]  * Oil prices mostly move in tandem with commodity prices, and lower oil prices could drag on the Aussie as Australia is a big exporter of commodities.  * Investors' risk appetites stayed fragile, with world stocks and the euro falling, while safer government bonds rose.  * Weak risk appetites typically weigh on the Aussie, which is seen as a riskier asset because investors usually borrow lower-yielding currencies such as the yen to buy local dollar.  * Aussie bond futures rose, however, rebounding from sharp declines the previous day. The Treasury market was shut on Monday, but futures pointed to a bounce today.  * Three-year bond futures rose 0.030 points to 96.790, while 10-year futures gained 0.035 points to 95.690 after posting the biggest one-day fall in six weeks on Monday. (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing) 
