MARKETS-MONEY/ (WRAPUP 1): * Aussie futures edge lower on moderated rate cut hopes  * S.Korean dollar scarcity concerns ease marginally  HONG KONG, Feb 20 (Reuters) - Australian bill futures gave up some recent gains on expectations the central bank will cut interest rates less aggressively than previously seen while South Korean cross-currency swaps narrowed after dollar scarcity concerns moderated.  Dollar funding rates in other parts of Asia eased marginally but economic worries and concerns about more bailouts could push rates higher, analysts said.  South Korea's cross-currency swap eased to minus 2 percent from minus 2.4 percent for one year, compared with plus 0.5 percent in mid-December.  Data released on Friday showed South Korea's current external borrowings maturing within one year fell $38.8 billion to $194.0 billion at the end of December from end-September, and the banking sector's foreign debt also fell.  'The fears are a bit over-blown. The MOF (Ministry of Finance) and BOK (Bank of Korea) have reassured that fx maturing obligations are quite easily handled,' said Thio Chin Loo, senior forex and rates strategist at BNP Paribas  (other-otc: BNPQY.PK -  news  -  people ).  However, uncertainty centred around South Korean shipbuilders who could buy dollars if they unwind their positions following any possible cancellation of orders, she said.  Elsewhere, in a semi-annual testimony to Parliament, Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Glenn Stevens said the central bank is prepared to cut rates further if the economy worsens but also added the benchmark would not go that low.  That weakened bond futures as markets had been factoring in a bigger rate cut.  Earlier this month, the RBA cut its key cash rate by 1 percentage point to a record low of 3.25 percent but analysts say the next reduction would not be so sharp.  'The governor has been reasonably clear -- you don't keep cutting rates at such a frenetic pace,' said Peter Jolly, head of research at National Australia Bank  (nyse: NAB -  news  -  people ).  'A 100 bps cut is unusually aggressive and at some point they have to say we have done enough for now,' he said and added the market was now expecting a 50 basis point cut in March, down from the earlier expectation of 50 to 75 bps.  Aussie bond futures fell after Stevens comments with the three-year contract down 0.025 points to 96.880. Bill futures dipped, pointing to 90-day yields at 3 percent by March, compared with 2.95 percent priced in on Thursday.  In Singapore, dollar funding rates inched lower, with traders quoting 3-month dollars at 1.254 percent down from Thursday's 1.2552 percent and 1-year dollars at 2.076 percent compared with 2.08333 percent.  But analysts said rates could rise again in the current risk-averse environment.  'Aside from the liquidity factors, factors driving the dollar rates are the weakness in the Japanese economy, more bailouts in the U.S. and concerns in Eastern Europe,' said Suresh Ramanathan, regional fx and rates strategist with CIMB Investment Bank. (Reporting by Umesh Desai; Editing by Kazunori Takada)  Copyright 2009 Reuters, Click for Restriction
