By Mantik Kusjanto WELLINGTON, Feb 13 (Reuters) - New Zealand retail sales fell for the fifth consecutive quarter in the three months to December, reinforcing views the central bank will keep cutting interest rates to shore up the recession-hit economy. Sales volumes, which strip out price movements, dropped 0.6 percent on the previous quarter, seasonally adjusted, with core sales flat. It was the first time since March 1997 there had been five consecutive quarterly declines in sales volumes. A Reuters poll had a median forecast of a 0.5 percent fall in volumes. 'The domestic economy is still very weak and so we expect rates still to be eased as a result,' said ANZ-National Bank market economist Philip Borkin. The New Zealand dollar blipped lower on the release but soon recovered to be largely unchanged around $0.5210/20. The yield on the March bank bill contract was a tick lower at 3.13 percent. New Zealand consumers put away their wallets last year in the face of high interest rates, a stalled housing market, and rising food and fuel costs. The global credit crunch and financial market turmoil has exacerbated the domestic recession, which has started to show through in job losses and softer wage growth. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) has responded by cutting the official cash rate by a total of 425 basis points since last July to a record low 3.5 percent. It is expected to cut again by at least 50 basis points at its March 12 review. The value of December month seasonally adjusted sales fell 1 percent, driven by lower fuel sales, in line with expectations. Core sales declined by 0.6 percent against a Reuters poll median forecast of a 0.3 percent fall. The retail sales figures confirmed evidence from the high street of weaker conditions over the period. Earlier this month, clothing retailer Hallenstein Glasson reported December month sales 4.6 percent lower than a year ago, while homestore and sports goods retailer Briscoe Group reported fourth quarter sales 1 percent lower. (Editing by James Thornhill) Keywords: NEWZEALAND ECONOMY/RETAIL (Wellington newsroom tel +64 4 471-4234, fax +64 4 473-6212, wellington.newsroom@reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
