MORTGAGE holders are taking advantage of lower interest rates to pay off their loans faster, rather than pocketing the savings upfront. This has prompted some economists to call for automatic reductions to monthly loan repayments to help better stimulate the economy.  Some lenders do automatically reduce mortgage repayments in line with interest rate cuts but the default position of most banks is to maintain repayments at previous levels and then offer people the option to reduce repayments.  Minutes from the latest Reserve Bank board meeting, released yesterday, show board members thought that 'households had not as yet scaled back their loan repayments after recent falls in interest rates, preferring instead to pay off debt faster'. So while there had been 'a very significant macroeconomic stimulus' from interest rate cuts and the Government's $42 billion spending package, 'this stimulus would take time to be effective and could be expected to have only a modest effect on the near-term outlook in Australia'. Figures from the owner of Australia's biggest database of credit histories, Veda Advantage, confirm consumers are becoming more debt shy.   There were 150,000 fewer credit enquiries on applications for personal loans and credit cards in the final three months of last year compared with the same period in 2007.  The chief economist at ANZ, Saul Eslake, said it was in mortgage holders' interests to keep making home loan repayments at the higher rate, if they could afford to. 'If people are able to keep their mortgage repayments up as interest rates decline, then they're saving themselves tens of thousands over the life of the loan,' he said. However, 'that does magnify the increase in saving that occurs when interest rates fall, that's true'. An interest rate strategist at Macquarie Bank, Rory Robertson, said interest rate cuts would 'pack more of a punch' if banks had to automatically reduce repayments. 'If the Reserve Bank is cutting by 4 basis points and no one's taking the option of lower loan repayments, it means that the policy is not particularly effective in putting cash in people's pockets. I would have thought that was the point of the exercise. Just as you squeeze budget constraints by rate hikes, you remove budget constraints by rate cuts. If the money's burning a hole in pockets, you have got a better chance of it being spent.' Nicholas Gruen, the chief executive of mortgage broker Peach Home Loans and the economic consultancy Lateral Economics, said that while in the longer term it was better if people paid down debts, in the short term it was better if they spent the money. 'It's pretty unfortunate that some of this is happening from inertia, not because anybody particularly wants it to happen,' he said. Dr Gruen said it was actually in the interests of the banks for borrowers to take longer to pay off their loans, because they would end up paying more interest over the life of the loan.  The Opposition's treasury spokesman, Joe Hockey, said he intended to quiz the Reserve Bank Governor, Glenn Stevens, at a twice-yearly appearance before a parliamentary committee on Friday on the effectiveness of interest rate cuts if people were simply saving them. 'It might suggest easing of monetary policy might not have the impact that may be factored into some people's thinking,' he said. Financial markets expect the Reserve Bank will cut interest rates again by another half a percentage point when it next meets on March 3. However, an economist at Commonwealth Bank, John Peters, predicted the bank would 'take a breather' and wait to see the impact of previous substantial rate cuts. 
