The ACT's jobless rate may have already peaked after new figures showed it remained steady while national unemployment jumped from 4.5 to 4.8per cent.  The trend unemployment was stable in Canberra at 2.6per cent for the third consecutive month in January, official statistics issued yesterday showed.   ACT Chamber of Commerce chief executive Chris Peters said the result showed Canberra was insulated from the national economy and the territory's downturn could have bottomed out.  ''Because we have such an acute skills shortage here, whilst some people will lose their jobs, they will be fairly quickly offered other positions. So I think the unemployment figures are not going to get any worse in the ACT,'' he said.Nationy, unemployment rose by 36,800 to 540,200 people.  Employment also increased in January. Full-time jobs were up 33,700 and part-time employment was down 32,600, giving a net increase of 1200 jobs, compared with market expectations of an 18,000 drop. It was the opposite of December's pattern of a shift from full- to part-time employment.  However, economists are questioning the validity of the result, pointing to the ''enormous'' margin of error in the employment growth figures, which ranged from -59,600 to 62,000 jobs.  HSBC chief economist John Edwards said unemployment rose because too few jobs were created for new entrants to the workforce.  Workforce participation rate rose by 0.1 of a percentage point to 65.1per cent in January, as another 38,000 people entered the job market, mainly because of population growth.  JP Morgan's Stephen Walters predicted the participation rate would be slower to decline than in previous downturns, inflating the unemployment rate.  ''This is mainly because of elevated skilled migration flows and older workers staying in the workforce longer than they had planned to compensate for the fact that their retirement nest egg has dwindled,'' he said.  Separate data issued yesterday also pointed to rising unemployment. The National Australia Bank's quarterly business survey's conditions index fell for the fifth consecutive quarter, and included the ''largest annual f in business conditions since entering the 1990-91 recession''.  ''Business is clearly positioning itself for tough times ahead. That is particularly evident in employment ...'' it said.  ANZ economist Alex Joiner warned a sharper rise in the unemployment rate could make consumer confidence plummet.  Youth unemployment is also on the rise, jumping from 13.3per cent to 14.7per cent.  Meanwhile, ANZ chief economist, Saul Eslake, writing in the Committee for Economic Development of Australia's Economic and  Preview 2009, to be issued today, warns countries against adopting protectionist measures in a bid to protect their workers.  ''Widespread resort to such measures would not only risk the prospect of an ever deeper downturn, it could also threaten the maintenance of peaceful relations among nations.'' 
