http://bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601208&amp;sid=aIDCTLnLxp80&amp;refer=finance JPMorgans Dimon Says Regulation Should Keep Banks in Business April 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., called on regulators to create a uniform way to handle failing companies that would avoid great confusion in markets. The first goal should be to regulate financial institutions so they dont fail, Dimon, 53, said yesterday in his annual letter to shareholders. If they do fail, a proper resolution process would ensure that action is swift, appropriate and consistent. Dimon, citing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.s ability to take over banks, echoed U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. Last week, Geithner proposed a resolution authority to give federal regulators the ability to seize and wind down non- bank financial companies. Amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, the FDIC has seized 21 banks this year. Meanwhile, New York- based JPMorgan has outperformed rivals. Its shares dropped 38 percent in the past 12 months, compared with an 88 percent skid at Citigroup Inc. and an 82 percent tumble for Bank of America Corp. This isnt the first time that Dimon has mentioned the idea of an overarching regulator. In a March 11 speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington, he called for a systemic risk regulator and new procedures to deal with the potential failures of large institutions. While the banking industry has been heavily regulated, the credit crisis made it clear the rules must be improved, Dimon said in the speech, adding that government oversight should focus on the product, not the company, ideas that he reiterated in yesterdays letter. Early Detection A systemic regulator should watch for new or potential risks to the capital markets, Dimon said in the letter, giving it the ability to detect problems early, such as the lack of oversight in the mortgage business. Dimon also said accounting practices are changed too frequently and are too susceptible to interpretation and manipulation. He said fair-value accounting, also known as mark-to-market, shouldnt apply to all types of assets, especially illiquid ones held over longer periods, such as private equity and real estate. Officials must create consistent valuation principles, Dimon said. Dimon told CNBC March 27 that the month had been a little tougher after saying the lender made money in January and February. Kenneth Lewis, Bank of Americas CEO, said the trading book was not as good as it was in the first two months but deposit flows were actually pretty good. Dimon and Lewis, along with Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, halted a plunge in their companies shares by proclaiming earlier in March that the banks were profitable through February, excluding taxes and provisions. The companies were stung by the collapse of the housing market last year, leading Citigroup and Bank of America to record fourth-quarter losses and JPMorgan to report a 76 percent slump in profit. To contact the reporter on this story: Elizabeth Hester in New York at ehester@bloomberg.net. Last Updated: April 1, 2009 00:00 EDT
