9/26/08 - I stroll into the office around 7am, having stopped by Little Anita's to pick two of their fabulous breakfast burritos (with chorizo &amp; green chili) for Chris and I before the markets open.  Kevin and Chris are already on the phone, reviewing the futures markets, news, and any overnight activity that impact the open.  Kevin works from home in the morning, so its usually just Chris and I in the office.Chris has an extra laptop in his office, so as has been habit recently, I drop down in the open seat, hand Chris his burro, and settle in.  News feeds are streaming from both of their PC's - one is Bloomberg news, the other CNBC or CNN, its hard to tell in the general cacophony.  Already we know things look sketchy.This is frustrating and, at times, sickening.  Overnight WaMu went down, seized by the FDIC then immediately sold over to JP Morgan - WaMu wasn't necessarily a surprise; we called it yesterday afternoon, however handing over to JP is news - seems as if JP has become the defacto private sector banking regulator. Congress is killing us; they refuse to pass this bailout bill, stringing the markets along in limbo while they play politics - it's disgusting.  No one likes this 700B, but without a market, then we're ALL screwed - this is no joke.  No help, you'd better be able to defend your spot in the food line.7:30 - market opens and immediately drops 100, letting everyone know it doesn't like instabilty.  GWB steps up the microphone to let the market know that WE WILL GET THIS DONE - its a mesg for the markets more than the public, and the Dow begins to climb back up.  George has done his job.  Sort of.  It's a better message than "this sucker could go down", at least.Energy, which we really care about (being an energy asset manager) looks ugly - its weird, as there's no real flight to safety, no safe haven today.  God, the screens are completely red.Back to the financials - crap, Wachovia isn't looking too good now, either.  Wachovia investors are understandably freaking out.  According to CNBC, the price of Wachovia credit default swaps has soared, and the stock was down about 40% in the pre-market, to $9.  It's now back up some, around 11...  The fundamental issue here is the value of the assets on Wachovia's balance sheet.  JP Morgan marked down the value of WaMu's assets by 10%. If Wachovia's assets carry similar pie-in-the-sky marks, the company could be headed for devastating markdowns.  While acquiring WaMu's wreckage, JP Morgan has taken massive writedowns to WaMu's loan portfolio. JP presumably wants to get as much of the bad news out of the way as possible, but the aggressive markdowns could still spell doom for Wachovia, Bank of America (our bank!!), Wells Fargo (MY BANK!!) and other financial institutions carrying similar assets at higher prices.  UGH!Chris and Kev are really frustrated - dropping f-bombs as they sketch across the boards - there's just no good news.  The Dow is giving back up some again.I guess Bill O'Reilly lit into both parties last night, and I can't say I blame him - We really just need to FIX this now; point fingers later.  The Republicans are really just screwing over their own candidate right now...We listen into the 9am press conference; these guys just can't be this dumb.  Esp the Republican party - they're letting themselves be painted as the obstructionists (which some of them are...).  Unreal.  "We'll stay as long as it takes..."  Are you kidding?  ...please tell us you won't let this languish into the weekend.Dow has come back now some, but energy is still getting creamed - we'll see...More to come...
