               Monday, September 15th: Holy Bankruptcy Batman - I am sure we all saw something bad headed  down the tracks, even after the Bear Stearns collapse, but could anyone have  predicted this. As I am typing this, Lehman Brothers is not official gone yet  but probably will be shortly. Merrill Lynch was basically forced to sell itself  to Bank of America and not to be left out AIG has to come up with some cash and  quickly or it will be downgraded. The futures are off over 2%, but we are a long  way from opening and that could change dramatically based on what additional  information comes out this morning and what happens over seas. Today will  certainly be one crazy ride, so buckle those seat belts.  Friday, September 12th: Adios Lehman - Well it certainly looks like Lehman Brothers is about  to be flushed down the toilet. It is just another player getting kicked to the  curb for indulging in high risk loans for a little cash. The people you feel  sorry for are the employees who probably had no idea the problems were this bad  in their firm, until recently of course. It just goes to show you that you  should never have all of your eggs in one basket when investing. You have to  diversify yourself a little to avoid a problem like this. Since yesterday  finished off on such a high note that probably means today is going to be  horrible. I will wish for the best (a large up day), but certainly be prepared  for the worst.  Thursday, September 11th: What a Snooze - Now yesterday was kind of a boring trading day  considering the first couple days of this week. I don't now how much longer I  can stand this lack of movement in the markets. Lehman Brothers tried to get the  market going in the right direction this morning by talking about what they are  going to do to get more cash. I am not sure they really cleared anything up but  they appear to be trying to put a plan together to keep them afloat. Oil is  continuing its downward spiral despite news coming out almost daily that you  think would drive it higher. I am not going to complain about that, but scary if  you have investments in anything related to oil. Perhaps today the traders will  need to gas up on their Redbulls.  Wednesday, September 10th: The Lord Giveth and the Lord Taketh Away - Monday came and went with  much excitement over the markets large gains, then came Tuesday and the market  gave it right back. The market mover Tuesday was Lehman Brothers rumors and  speculation. The roller coaster ride will continue until Lehman Brothers clears  up the question marks out there, on how they are going to get more cash. This  looks to be unfolding in a similar fashion to the Bear Stearns collapse with a  little different plot, but could have a similar outcome. It sounds like Lehman  is going to be making an announcement within the next few hours, so we will see  how the market reacts today when it opens. This is kind of like watching a train  wreck in slow motion right before our eyes.  Tuesday, September 9th: Freddie and Fannie Fuels Gain - Yesterday was a great day to be a  stockholder for the most part. The financial stocks were off and running, except  Freddie and Fannie of course. They took a nice bath and laid down for a long  nap, a really long nap. The day started off with a bang, everything was up huge  but as what seems to happen lately the profits were quickly taken. It was still  a great day, but until the market can stop selling off in this range bound  pattern we seem to be in we probably will not see much progress. Perhaps these  mortgages getting cleaned up will open up some liquidity for banks. Could this  event be the oil to lube the US economys engine?  Monday, September 8th: Something Wicked This Way Comes - The book is about a strange carnival  that rolls into town and in stock market terms we can call the financial credit  collapse this carnival. You might think you know when this wacky carnival is  going to hit the road but in the end, it is just a guessing game. Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac are the latest victims to fall from the high wire act. Eventually  this circus will leave town, but I know I dont want to pay the price of  admission until I am certain I know what is under the tent.  Friday, September 5th: Terrible Thursday - Yesterday was a disaster to say the least. The  major indexes dropped 3% and nothing was working. If this is what is going to  happen with the traders back, I wish they would return to their summer breaks.  The fact of the matter is the next 6 months (at least) are going to be tough, so  I would stay lighter than usual in stocks and would be much more anxious to take  profits when you get them. The same could be said for losses. I would cut ties  with down stocks quicker than I normally would with the uncertainly these days.   Thursday, September 4th: Republicans Turn - I have to admit that I was actually interested in  watching Gov. Palins speech last night and that is saying something with as  boring as politics have become. I thought she did a great job for someone who  has probably never even sniffed a stage and audience like this before. The jury  is still out on how her selection will affect this ticket, but along with Obama  on the other side, it has seemed to re-energize politics in America. This is  something that was badly needed, regardless of who is selected, we will  hopefully see some positive changes in Washington. Speaking of positive changes,  how about a positive day for all the major averages today.  Wednesday, September 3rd: Highs and Lows - The wackiness continued on the first day back from a  long holiday weekend. The stocks were off to the races yesterday and the rabbit  (lets call him a bull) was looking to finish the day off on a spectacular high,  but just like in the book the rabbit fell asleep and the turtle (bear in this  case) stormed back and in the end won the race. Oil continued its march lower  and commodities did not want oil to feel lonely so it followed as well. The  dollar looks like it is going to continue to strengthen for the time being and  there are pluses and minus to this as well. You just need to watch your  portfolio closer these days and it could continue for at least 6 more months.   Tuesday, September 2nd: Traders Are Back - Well it is that time of the year when the traders  return to New York or at least that is what they tell us so we can find out the  true state of the stock market. The summer has been up and down and that could  fall in the understatement of the year category. We will see if the July lows  are the bottom or if we have a ways to go now that the volume should be picking  up here shortly. We have a great week in front of us, if nothing more because  the NFL will get kick started on Thursday and college football as just begun. So  buckle those chin straps, it is time to find out who is for real in the stock  market and on the field.  Friday, August 29th: What a Push - Stocks were on the rise yesterday and what a day they  had. The trend has been to hang around the 50-day moving average for the SP500  and DOW for the last couple weeks, but yesterday they really broke above that.  The volume of course is way down but any positive gains we can cash in on is  nothing to complain about. Today should be a really light day as well. The  question I have is will stocks hold on to these gains with the traders getting  back to work on Tuesday. Who knows what today will bring us but another positive  day would be fine with me.  Thursday, August 28th: Obamas Turn - Tonight Barack Obama will address the Democrats from  Denver in what I would imagine is the biggest speech of his life. Regardless of  which candidate gets in they will face some tough times but there is definitely  light at the end of the tunnel. Yesterday we had a good finish to the day and  the DOW and SP500 actually closed above the 50-day moving average.  Unfortunately, that means that today we will probably push below it to continue  the zigzag pattern we are in. The best way to play it is buy the dips and sell  the rips.  Wednesday, August 27th: The Search for Direction - The SP500 has been very close to 50-day  moving average for almost 3 weeks. It is like a frighten child clinging to its  mother never wanting to stray to far from home. Unfortunately, the 50-day line  keeps moving slowing down like walking down 20 stories one stair at a time. Let  us jump on the elevator and get to the bottom so we can start the recovery  already. Once this week is over and the traders start to get back to work, we  could see the volume increase and perhaps find a direction one way or another.   Tuesday, August 26th: Tuesday Has to be Better, Right? - Yesterday was not exactly a banner  day for stocks. The major indexes lost about 2% for the day and nothing really  seemed to be moving in a positive direction. Freddie and Fannie did move to the  upside, but does anyone really want to play with those time bombs? It will  probably be a slow week as far as volume goes since we have the long holiday  weekend coming up and everyone is enjoying their so called last weekend of  summer. It sure would be nice if we could get some positive finishes before  Friday.  Monday, August 25th: Olympic Wrap Up - The Olympics have come to an end and were pretty  entertaining. I came away from these games knowing two things for sure. One is  Michael Phelps is the new Aqua Man and two Usain Bolt is ridiculously fast.  Speaking of fast, we are quickly approaching the end of summer and someone  forgot to tell the stock market that it was suppose to be in recovery mode by  now. There is no doubt the second half recovery has not even left that starting  blocks yet, but we do still have time on our side. A new trading week begins and  let us improve upon last weeks performance.  Friday, August 22nd: Oil Up - Dollar Down - We could be seeing a new trend over the coming  weeks. In 2008, a trend means it is valid for abou...
