I love these government bailouts for the current financial crisis. It is rewarding companies for conducting bad business. This is no different than in the 1980's when the government put tariffs on imported Japanese cars in order to protect the American auto makers because they could not compete with the vehicle prices and how that price relates to quality. These tariffs were meant to protect the automakers and give them time to change their business models to compete with the Japanese automakers on a level playing field. However, rather than do anything to increase efficiency and increase the quality of their products they just took the advantage to the bank until the tariffs were removed. Now look at the American automakers, they are struggling mightily and want another bailout. Bailout for what?&amp;nbsp;They didn't do anything the first time and they will do nothing now. Maybe they should go under, that is the cost of running a poor business. You don't think that foreign automakers won't produce more cars in this country and give jobs to Americans? Due to high costs of shipping and import costs the vast majority of those foreign cars that rednecks say is anti-patriotic are made here anyways. So if Americans are working and being paid a good wage to make the automobile then what is the harm? That takes us to the Airline industry where they have been struggling since even before September 11th, 2001. And yet when that massive tragedy happened there most of them are with their hands out saying they need help. Not mentioning that the problems with the industry where present even before that. Yet somehow Southwest Airlines has been able to remain mostly in the black while the others are losing billions every year. We are supposed to bail them out because they have poor business skills? Remember, in addition to the increasing airline fees that you are paying that you are also paying for their bad debt with your tax dollars.And what about the mortgage and credit crisis that seems to be dominating the news today? Billions of dollars of&amp;nbsp; "wealth" evaporated in one day earlier this week and the government is again supposed to bail these businesses out. Just write a check and they will be OK. Pay no attention to the fact that they are not correcting anything, or fixing any of the problems with the way they have conducted business over the last decade or so of low interest rates that have also been given to them that in turn trickle down to us. Not only did your retirement dreams possibly evaporate with that half a trillion dollars of loss with the market tanking, but also you get to pay for it in your current taxes. You are getting slapped in the face twice and no one is fixing anything.Private industry is supposed to be more efficient than governments because of the profit-loss model that dictates how business is conducted. Unfortunately the state of Corporate America has taken that theory and proved it completely false. If anyone has worked under a large corporation like I have for the past 8 years it will show you that these giant corporations are just giant bureaucracies and about as organized as a hillbilly's garage (I live in a crappy part of Indiana right now so I have a lot of built up angst towards hillbilly whitetrash). They have so much internal red tape towards accomplishing any task that nothing ever gets done and things like this happen. And the government's answer to this problem is to continually allow extremely large corporations to merge together to become even more disorganized. Look at Bank of America purchasing Merril Lynch. This is just going to happen again eventually since one corporation buys another and does little to fix the issues that caused the company to go into such a massive tailspin in the first place. Where is our bailout? In the end the people that hold the largest stake in all of this get nothing while the people at the top get rewarded for being too stupid to run a business in the first place. Don't we all wish we could get bailed out and rewarded for being completely incompetent? Instead we all lose our retirement and possibly our jobs. People like you and me lose our jobs because the company is not performing well and we get blamed for it. People get fired for not meeting performance requirements when you are not allowed to fix anything. Try introducing a new idea or a fix for a problem, your supervisor calls their supervisor who calls their supervisor etc etc etc and no one knows if its ok to act like that. No one has the ability to make a decision so rather than bother people just say screw it, no one will listen anyways. No one really knows how anymore, and no one has an opinion anymore. So much for the American business model, we just have a bunch of morons at the top that know nothing about running a business and are more concerned with control as opposed to the good of the company. Thanks U.S. goverment, you continually reward to retards of this country and forget the hardworking people that make this country "so great." 
