This whole thing with the finance markets is rather scarey and yet fascinating at the same time. I am reading the news, and some of this fascinates me in how ironic things are, and how people make what of what. Lehman Brothers looks like it's going to have to have it's asset sale. The difference is, it's going to be a fire sale more or less. They're filing for bankruptcy. I am sure that as soon as the doors to the federal courts open, their counsel will be there. That's not good for the markets. Merril Lynch got bought out by freaking Bank of America. I wonder how much of that is part of a pissing contest. It would help them rival Citigroup. Is it really worth that amount of cash just to say you're bigger when the place you're buying has some serious issues? At least they have some hard assets on paper according to the balance sheet. Here is another little tidbit that kills me. One of the people that the government put in charge of Fannie or Freddie is form Merril Lynch. I wonder what they did there. Why do I wonder? You have one place going bankrupt, so let's get someone else from a place that is no better off to head it. Wow...what a plan. Are they going to do the same thing? Now here is what really gets me. The FOMC isn't going to bail out some of these big name places. I don't blame them either in some instances. So now, we're going to get all these big name places that have gobs and gobs of cash to lend money to places in trouble. A lot of this whole sub-prime thing started with people with good credit, but no proof of income. The mortgage collapses. Does that sound stupid? Yes. Now, we have the people that said it's stupid that are going to lend money to places that are loosing money! If I went to the bank and said give me a loan even though I have no money, they'd laugh. So now, we're going to have all these astute and stringent institutions lend money to people who are like the borrowers who caused their demise. They're only bigger. This isn't stupid? Here's the other thing that any investor that looks at these things will see. If I am a company in trouble like Wachovia, and my income is going south and fast-like me on the ramp to get back to my old place in Orlando, I lend someone like that money. On the balance sheet, I may have cash on hand from the loan. Guess what? My earnings just tanked because I had to declare that as a debt of some kind. That goes against share holder equity, so now the earnings are even worse! So in the process, the earnings are worse. The stock value goes to hell like everything else. So between that, and the fact that now their income goes to hell, we now have this credit issue and quality issue with this company that just got a loan. Now the bank with gobs and gobs of money may loose that amount. If the terms of the loan say preferred stock, there goes the shareholder equity again. Here is another thing they don't tell you in the news. Fannie and Freddie are conservatorships now. That means the government is acting more or less like a legal guardian for the company as if they were the company. Who's to say that someone in the government doesn't say it's in the best interest of either to file for bankruptcy? Let's say they don't do that, but they're not saying how much of a bail out they will get.  Don't you just love how nobody talks about some of those things? There are all these actions going on, but there are few details. Everyone gets all excited and makes some big decision on the government taking over. What are they actually going to do? All we can do is speculate on that.
