This rant consists of two parts. The second is personal, the first less so. Read both! They're fun.1. America's economy sucks. That doesn't mean Australia's does.American banks lent too much money to Americans who could not afford to pay back their American loans to their American lenders. That means American banks are in trouble - as are some in the UK, Western Europe and Asia who have borrowed money from American parents or partners. Australian banks, however, have not done this. The 'global credit crisis' does not affect Australia's major banks, who have not offered 'sub-prime loans' or any of the other American things identified by uniquely American terms that American banks have done.The closing and/or buyout of American banks does not have any significant impact on loans or savings in Australian banks. Just because an American bank closes down, that doesn't mean you need to rush off to ANZ, NAB, CBA, etc. and withdraw all of your money, or freak out about your loan or, worst of all, sell your shares. The primary problem spilling out of the American banks and into the rest of the world is that of capital raising. They have no money, because they gave it to people who can't pay them back (that is oversimplified). This is not the case in Australia. At all. Australian banks have means of raising capital that does not involve borrowing from other banks or relying on income raised from loans. You hear on the news every night about the ginormous profits the banks are making - they are so safe, I'd rather have a bank in my car than a seatbelt.The one major Australian bank affected is bankwest, whose capital comes primarily from their UK parent bank, which has capital issues due to borrowing huge amounts from an American bank. STOP FREAKING THE HECK OUT.I don't care if David Koch hosts a special on Channel 7 about the &amp;quot;global financial crisis&amp;quot;. It is bull. The only negative impact it is having on the Australian economy is that Australians are selling their shares in banks and pulling in their credit because they are afraid, and they are afraid because Channel 7 is telling them lies.For Pete's sake, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull even stood up together in Parliament last week urging people, especially the television news media, to be careful about the way they talk about the American credit crisis, because it was that totally unwarranted fearmongering that was driving down the Australian economy.Please note, though, that superannuation and insurance are another issue. American company (bank?) AIG back a large number of insurance firms and super funds in Australia. If that goes under, which it probably won't, thanks to support from the US government, you may lose life insurance, funeral cover, etc., and super (although your super is more than likely protected by a number of schemes).The biggest threat to your super comes from you. Remember, your super funds invest in the Australian share market. If you sell your shares because you believe Channel 7's lies, those investments become worth less, which gives you a smaller return on your super. So, again, STOP FREAKING OUT. Americans: stop investing in Australia's economy. Your economy sucks. That doesn't mean you should pull out of ours, it means you should support ours, you nuffies. By Aussie, and until your economy is back on its feet you will get much greater returns on your investment. 2. The government lies (but didn't lie in 1.)My brother is not very good with money, and basically - through convoluted means - bought a $4,000 motorcycle for $22,500, $10,000 of which took the form of his car. When he realised he had gotten a raw deal, it was too late - he is now without car, and a motorbike is not suitable for his needs.Kindly, and since I don't have a driver's licence, I offered to loan my brother my car, as long as he paid the registration, which had recently lapsed. Car registration is $593, annually. Thankfully, I have a low-income health care/concession card from Centrelink, as I am unemployed. Among its few but helpful benefits is the ability to register your car on a six-month basis, for half of $593. Unfortunately, my HCC had recently expired. Centrelink told me &amp;quot;Don't worry, you're eligible and a new card is on the way. In the meantime, it can be checked electronically.&amp;quot;So yesterday I headed to VicRoads to pay the rego. They explained they needed to sight a valid card; only chemists can check electronically (the primary benefit to a HCC is reduced medicine costs, with the average price being $3.20 rather than $40-100 for common medication). This morning, I went to Centrelink to get an interim HCC voucher, and then went back to VicRoads. Apparently this time it was not enough, as the new card was not dated back to the period in which the rego lapsed.This is an issue for two reasons:When I paid my rego six months ago, the card did not cover the date the registration lapsed, and it did not matter. The rules have not changed; I don't know why it is an issue now.It would have been impossible to obtain a valid card on the appropriate date. I can only get a new card after the existing one has expired (other people can renew theirs, I have to re-apply the day after in expires). The card expired on a Friday. The registration lapsed on the Sunday of the same weekend. Centrelink is not open on Saturdays and Sundays. I could not reapply until the Monday.Bah.So if my brother needs the car, he will need to pay the full, twelve-month rego which I don't think he can afford.Effing effers.
