&amp;gt;sigh&amp;lt;  I have nothing to do here at work today, so I've been reading in morbid fascination about all of the stuff going down on Wall Street.  I don't pretend to understand WHY any of this is happening (um, something to do with mortgage loans?  whatever) but I am trying to figure out a plan for me.So basically, Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers is bankrupt.  This potentially affects me because Washington Mutual is also doing pretty crappily and something something about how if/when they need someone else to buy them there will be less possibilities since everyone else is already merging.WaMu is the bank for my main checking account and main savings account which means that if they go broke/bankrupt/close/whatever then I'm going to have to do something.  I'm not worried about my money really, since "luckily" I have waaaay less than $100,000 so therefore all of my money at WaMu is FDIC insured.The problem is that I have ZERO idea about what happens after that.  I know that because it's insured I'll get it back.  Eventually.  I just have NO idea how long that will take and if it's anything longer than a few days, I'd probably need to be able to access, ya know, at least some of my money.(Hm, I just read ONE article saying that there's no problem getting money when the FDIC steps in but for some reason I find that hard to believe.  I mean, why do they always show all those panicked people standing in line outside those closed banks, waiting to withdraw their life savings?  I have no clue.)So I'm trying to figure out a plan of action in case WaMu closes.  I mean, even if in the best-case scenario I am able to access my money immediately, I'm still gonna need to find a new bank.I have an ING account, and a Paypal account and possibly still an HSBC account, but those are all online only and linked to my WaMu account, so not really sure how useful that would be.  I was thinking of attempting to find another no-fee checking account at a bank that has an actual branch in this area, transferring a little bit of money to it just in case, but I don't know if those exist.  Do those even exist?  I'm so used to doing everything with online bank accounts that pay you lots of interest and have no fees.... Hm, I guess I should go do research about that...
