At age 25, John Loconsolo, a paint contracting estimator from North Caldwell, N.J., still had to ask his father to co-sign on his first car lease. Loconsolo had gotten himself in a bit of debt during his post-college years, and his credit score was suffering. But the car incident motivated him to do something about it. The thought of not being able to buy a car or get a mortgage really scared me,&amp;#8221; says Loconsolo. Loconsolo pulled himself together, paid off his debt and, a few years later, he is now a proud homeowner. But if he hadn&amp;#8217;t upped his credit score, he could still be renting. The point of a credit score is to determine your quality as a money borrower depending on your past credit history. Basically, lenders hire credit agencies to rate you, and this rating is your credit score. For example, before you apply for a mortgage from Chase (amex: CCF - news - people ) or Citibank (nyse: C - news - people ) or Bank of America (nyse: BAC - news - people ) or wherever, your bank may contact the credit bureau it works with to see whether or not it should give you a loan and, if so, how much interest it should charge. Usually, the worse your credit score is, the higher your interest rate. You credit score is a number, commonly called a FICO score, which is an acronym for the Minneapolis-based Fair Isaac Corp. Your FICO score ranges between 350 (extremely high risk) and 850 (extremely low risk). Most other systems of credit scoring follow a similar range. The reason there is more than one method of rating your credit is because there is more than one credit bureau that rates you. The three largest credit bureaus in the U.S. are Equifax (nyse: EFX - news - people ), TransUnion and Experian. Only Equifax uses an actual FICO score, while the others use similar rating methods that have been developed internally. Dont expect to get the same score from each of these agencies. In fact, your score may vary widely, and you might have three or more credit scores at one time. source : http://www.google.com/news? 
