I'm currently arguing with a user on Mylot about whether or not a social networking website is a pyramid scheme or not.  I say that it is because the whole idea behind it is that you can earn by referring other people to it.  In fact, there's apparently no way to earn money from it except by referring new users to it.  She says it's not because it's supposedly backed by a large bank, but mostly she thinks it's not  a pyramid scheme because it's paid her.Ummm... *facevault*If you want to read it, go here.  You'll have to scroll up a bit to get the entire thing, since that's my last response to the thread.  I don't know how to link to the top one in the thread.  Mylot's not quite as nice about those things as LiveJournal is. :(Something that I didn't mention in my latest response is that I took the time to send an email off to WaMu, the bank that supposedly supports this site.  Here's the exact text of what I sent them, just for fun:I would like to know if WaMu is affiliated with the social networking website 6dgr.com. I was referred to join it by an acquaintance who says that a portion of their funding comes directly from WaMu, but I saw no mention of any partnership between the website and WaMu anywhere on their site or yours. It also seems very strange that a reputable bank like WaMu would support something that is very clearly a pyramid scheme. Could you please clarify this for me?Thank you very much!Am I horrible?  Very likely.  Is WaMu probably going to start investigating the account that's referring all of these new customers to the bank?  So probable that I'd be surprised if they didn't start looking into the number of new referrals that have come from that site.&amp;nbsp; I've gotten bonuses from Bank of America for referring friends, and in the little brochure they give out so you can refer new people they say very clearly that referrals have to be made in good faith or something very similar.&amp;nbsp; Basically, it's to the effect of &amp;quot;you can't just refer people to the bank to make money from us.&amp;quot;&amp;nbsp; I bet WaMu has a similar policy.Things should get very interesting once I&amp;nbsp;hear back from them.
