Typical Bank of America Scam Online Account Locked Dear Customer, Remember: We are committed to serving you better Due to the number of incorrect login attempts, your Bank of America Online Banking Account has been locked for your security . This has been done to secure your accounts and to protect your private information in case the login attempts were not done by you To unlock your account, and verify your identity please follow this link and sign in At Bank of America we care about your security so, for your protection we are proactively notifying you of this activity. If you did not trigger this lockout, follow this link to Log on to Bank Of America Online N.B: You will be asked a few additional questions which is part of the reactivation process, you will also be required to create an online transfer password to further protect your account. Receiving this email indicates your account has not been compromised so you do not need to make any changes to your account Want to get more alerts? Sign in to Bank of America Online Banking and click the &amp;#8220;Manage Alerts&amp;#8221; link in the &amp;#8220;I want to&amp;#8230;&amp;#8221; box.. This alert is sent automatically. If you would like to make any changes to your Online Banking Alerts service, please sign in to Online Banking and click on the Customer Service Tab. The security and confidentiality of your personal information is important to us. Because E-Mail Is Not A Secure Form Of Communication, This E-Mail Box Is Not Equipped To Handle Replies. Clicking reply will forward your mail to the fraud watch dept. DO NOT REPLY WITH ANY SENSITIVE PERSONAL INFORMATION! We respect your privacy, and you can be rest assured that we protect your information, including your email address, and will never sell or share it with marketers outside Bank of America. To find out more, please read our Privacy Policy. Bank of America E-mail, 6th Floor, 101 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC 28255-0001 Wonder how many of their non customers received this. 
