This is more of a "Why is it so hard to find bloody contact information for you people?!" than an "OMG bad_service!!" really.I have spent the past few hours going through my and my husband's credit reports and getting bills and all that neatly organized so we have a very good idea of just how much we are in debt, what our credit looks like, et cetera. Ow.Over the years, I have had quite a few credit cards. Almost all of them have been paid off and closed properly, with the exceptions being the one that we currently have jointly, and the one we are still paying off from wedding expenses, which is closed and will be paid off and gone as soon as possible.However, my credit report showed two additional credit cards still open. One was through Barclays/Apple, and a number was provided on my report to call them, which I did. They were very nice and friendly, and I was on the phone for an entire three minutes and twenty seconds. That account is now closed. Yay! Scrolling down the report, I come upon the next "open account" through GEMB/Belk. I had this card from Belk (a department store here in the South, similar to JC Penney), which is through GE Money Bank, and which has been paid off and unused for years (at least two) now. I also could have sworn I closed it with the last payment, but eh, whatever.I look for contact information on my report - only an address. So I go to the website for Belk's credit card. There is NO information at all, only a log in and a link to apply for a card. I don't need a new one, I need this one closed! So I search for the GE Money Bank website - also no contact information! Only a "call the number on the back of your card." Well, as I've said before... I haven't had this card in years.I did search for "GE Money Bank customer service" to finally find a 1-866 number... which only says "Hello, thank you for calling GE Money. Please insert your card number." and keeps repeating that phrase and a "You must input the card number within the time allowed."So far, still no luck. Why is it so hard for companies to provide a single bloody phone number?
