Money is the root of all evil.  It is the reason that most things wrong with the world are the way they are.  I was thinking about it this morning while my mom and I were having breakfast. I'm trying to save up for a new car and it's going incredibly slowly because I have to pay my ridiculously expensive bills.  My bills are ridiculously expensive because I live in a world where people don't make enough money to live anymore.  There are people out there who are having to pay $3.75 a gallon to get gas to go to work.  There are people out there who make little more than $3.75 an hour.  Blah blah blah, public transportation... has anyone ever actually tried that though?  It's fine when you live in Philly, or in a downtown area in the suburbs, but I can tell you that the people who live out by Delaware in the trailer homes don't have any nearby Septa stops.  I mean, I make a whole lot more than the price of a gallon of gas every hour, but I still want to cry when it costs almost $50 to fill my tank.  Come on now, in 2001 or 2002 or whenever I started driving gas cost $.99 a gallon.  It cost me $10 to fill my Camry.  How are people doing this?So then there's the whole housing / mortgage / sub-prime catastrophy that's going on right now.  The government needs to bail out AIG, one of the world's largest insurance companies, because of the greed of the people who were running it.  There are banks getting together to pool their resources to save other banks.  That's not right.  These people aren't supposed to be taking the chances that they are and they damn well shouldn't be using my money to do it.  Furthermore, predatory lending was the downfall of America.  Yes, people are stupid.  People will go for an adjustable rate mortgage and see the world through rose colored glasses and think they're 1.5% will stay that way for the next 30 years.  Let me spell it out...  People.  Are.  Dumb!  Lacking the education to understand that this is not a good idea is a sure fire way to get yourself in trouble.Yes, we're America.  Ooooo big scary America.  That doesn't mean that we all deserve to get rich and never work.  We're mean people, we're a mean country.  Big business is out for big business alone, they're not offering you that great APR because they think it will stay that way, they're offering it because they're going to screw you in about 4 months or so.More than anything else, what happened to accountability?  Why are people being saved from their own mistakes all the time?  I understand the Fed bailing out AIG.  AIG going under would be a terrible, terrible, world-ending thing.  They had a lot of overseas involvement and it would have been an awful mess if they had been allowed to take the dive.  But is anything going to happen to the execs who ran it in to the ground?  No, probably not.  Just like people are being saved from their mortgage mistakes.  When will we learn if we never have to?  When will big business learn to be accountable for their mistakes if no one ever places blame?Sidetrack:  I was reading a book on 2012.  2012, for those who don't know, is supposed to be the end of the world.  It's the end of the Mayan long count calendar, which, like all other Mayan calendars is a circle... it just happens to be the biggest circle.  It's also the end of the Age of Aquarius, beginning of the Age of Pisces.  There's a big debate about whether the world is going to go up in a ball of flames or if it's actually going to be some huge moment of enlightenment for the whole human race.  Alternatively, nothing might happen.It is, however, a fact that there will be iceless summers on the north pole by 2012.  That's not good.  All it takes is a global temperature increase of about 3 degrees for life as we know it to end.  3 degrees is not a lot of degrees.  We're well on our way.It's also a fact that our economy is in shambles and the established American way of life is ending.  I'll bet if we give it 3 more years and something doesn't change... yeah, 2012 seems like a reasonable year for collapse.I'm not trying to tell anyone that THE END IS NEAR... even though it probably is. My point is that there needs to be something done.  Why can't people see that?  Turn off the lights in the office buildings when no one is there.  Mandate contributions from oil companies towards alternative energy research.  PAY ATTENTION.  Focus some of our government spending on improving all the crap that is wrong with our country, not trying to clean up messes no one was interested in us touching in the first place.  (Sorry to the people in the Army, I know it's not your fault.)  Our country is so abysmally far behind on education, healthcare, energy, and just about anything else that requires some initiative.  If we're supposed to be the premier superpower, why are we all fat, dumb and unhappy?Anyway, I don't care if you vote, I really don't.  If you buy in to your vote not changing anything, well you're probably right.  Then again, you might not be, and it might be your fault if we end up with a moron in the white house (again).  On the other hand, who can say who is less of an idiot?  I don't know enough to make that call for anyone.  Just pick up some trash the next time you see it.  Or turn off the water while you brush your teeth.  Hit the light when you're the last one out of the room.  Carpool.  Hug someone.This shit's outta control.
