One thing before I get going:If you leave a comment, please leave your name. Thank you to whoever put one of my entries as one of his/her favorite entries, but I'd like to know who you are simply to pad my ego.*****It used to be that politicians wrote their own speeches. Washington's Farewell Address, the Gettysburg Address and Lincoln's Second Inaugural, all masterworks of oratory, were written by the men who delivered them. However, today, presidents and other world leaders don't do this. I suppose it's for the best: why bother having the leader write his own speeches when he can probably hire someone else to do it better and when he has other, probably weightier, stuff to deal with? At the same time, while speeches used to be at least partial reflections of the men and women themselves, they now are reflections of the administration, and as such, we've lost a personal link to those who lead us.I bring this all up because I read Slate. Slate, for those of you who don't know, is the Washington Post's online magazine. Slate is pretty much the only place on the internet I go for news because for some reason or another, I trust them. Also, they have very nice features, which really brings me to the motivation for all of this: Queen Rania of Jordan has been blogging for Slate.Now, of course I know it's less than probable that Her Majesty herself has actually been writing the entries. But because I absolutely love the concept of monarchy, and because Jordan's monarchy has been reformist by the standards of Mid-East monarchies, I do not care, and will likely continue to read HM's blog until such time as she stops writing it. With entry titles like "New York is a Great Place to Have Jetlag," I feel little guilt about reading what is likely to be one big PR stunt that she herself has little to do with.*****Lately, I've been talking with my father more. I made this conscious decision after he called about a week ago, with the following results:Dad: Hi Mooch.(Note: "Mooch" is Dad's nickname for me. It doesn't come from the fact that I am an inveterate moocher, but rather, it's an abbreviation of "Mucho Macho Man," which is something my parents kind of hoped I'd become rather than the slight chubster that I happen to be. At this point, the nickname really has no real meaning, much as SAT doesn't stand for anything now.)Harold: Hi Dad. What's up?Dad: Well, I have some interesting news-Harold: What did I do wrong?Dad: Wha- Did I say you did something-Harold: Dad, the only time you call me with news is when I've screwed up. I called home a couple of days ago, right?Dad: Yes. Relax.Harold: What did I do wrong? I sent Mom an e-mail yesterday, so it can't be that.Dad: I don't recall saying you did anything wrong.Harold: But that's the only time you call with news, so I must have done something really bad. What the (censored)... what the heck did I do?Dad: You didn't do anything.Harold: In which case, can we not tell Mom about what I just said?Dad: How would I tell her?Because this wasn't exactly a conversation or panic attack I wanted to repeat, Dad and I talk on the phone much more frequently now. We generally talk on Dad's way home from work, so we compare how the day went. Yesterday, he was talking about how the cops were pulling people over for going 3 mph over the speed limit.Harold: What happened to the budget?Dad: You don't pay attention at all to current events, do you?Harold: Well, tax revenue's down, but when has that ever stopped the government from spending.Dad: State governments can't run a deficit.This actually led into a conversation with my father about the current economic mess. As I now understand it, the mess was a convergence of three distinct problems:1. Securities that practically nobody understood yet everyone traded in bulk.2. Congress deciding that regulation was overrated.3. Congress acting like a bunch of twerps and meddling in things it didn't understand.Let's go over this bit by bit.By now, most people have heard of "mortgage-backed securities." This is probably a misnomer, as the instruments that are taking down Wall Street are second-order derivative contracts. To put it more simply:Security: StockDerivative Contract of Security: OptionDerivative Contract of Derivative Contract of Security: Options on options.With a security, you gamble on people or a corporation. A mortgage is an example of this: the bank lends you money in the hopes that they'll get it back and then some. Derivative contracts are pretty much gambles on how well the underlying security will do. And second-order derivative contracts gamble on how well the first order derivative contract will do. As my father puts it, by second-order, most people will only lose money.Now, while it's pretty easy to understand stocks (partial ownership of a company), options (agreements that allow you to buy partial ownership of a company at a fixed price), and even options of options (conceptually, at any rate, even if you'll never make a dime off of them), the mortgage securities are a lot less easy to understand.It used to be that fixed rate mortgages were, legally, the norm. But the government decided to change this, and variable rate mortgages took over. However, for reasons I don't fully understand and using methods I don't understand at all, nobody wanted to own the variable rate mortgages, and instead sought to have fixed rate securities. This conversion involved not pools of mortgages, but subdivided pools of pools of mortgages. And then, making things more complicated, people frequently swapped the fixed rate instruments for variable rate instruments.I don't really understand the "science" behind all of this, but I do know that most of this came as a result of anyone being able to write a mortgage and then sell it to someone else double-quick. When anyone can issue a mortgage, and there isn't sufficient regulation of the market, you're just asking for fraud - which is exactly what happened.The crash, on the other hand, was a result of many of the mortgage-backed securities being heavily reliant on housing prices only going up. However, prices of securities never go exclusively in one direction, so that many investment banks got so very leveraged (borrowed way too much money in comparison to the book value of the company) into these securities seems somewhat indicative of nobody quite understanding the securities.What is THOROUGHLY indicative is that nobody is quite sure how much these securities are actually worth. This probably wouldn't have killed anyone, but the government recently changed regulations. It used to be that the seller determined the price of a security that wasn't selling, but now such securities are considered valueless for accounting purposes.The change in government regulations meant that the banks lost a huge amount of money overnight - money that they probably still had, but nobody knows because NOBODY knows how much these securities are actually worth. Couple this with the slowdown of the US economy and 10% of mortgages becoming valueless due to defaulting and bankruptcy, and the house of cards is coming toppling down.Now, the really big banks, like Bank of America, won't fail because the Federal Reserve has been regulating them from the get-go. But the smaller banks - and smaller is a relative term here, because many of these banks are still huge - can, and most likely will fail without some sort of bailout. This explains why you've seen fewer Washington Mutual ads recently.There are a couple of opinions on the bailout:1. Give the banks the money now, no strings attached.Bad idea. You're propping up institutions that were acting without any regulation whatsoever, and will continue to act without it in the future. Crisis temporarily averted, underlying issues not fixed.2. Give the banks the money with strings attached.It's not a bad idea, because it will force the banks to accept government regulation, something that is CLEARLY needed.3. Screw the bailout.The market is self-correcting. And if Congress actually grows a pair, they can ram regulation down the throat of the companies anyway.The Bush Administration, in its infinite wisdom, supports option #1. Most liberals I've spoken to support option #2.I'm gunning for the third option: even with bailouts, it's hardly guaranteed that these banks won't fail. The market is self-correcting, so we don't have to worry about the US economy never recovering - we recovered from 1929, didn't we? Thirdly, this sort of economic crisis will ensure that people demand that the SEC regulate all securities, not just stocks and bonds, preventing these sorts of shenanigans from happening again. And lastly, it's what my father supports, and as he has forgotten more about this stuff than I will ever know, his opinion is informed enough for me to go on it.Now, admittedly, letting the banks fail is a VERY controversial move, because it means unemployment goes up. However, right now, the Fed is worried about an inflation problem, and an economic downturn will probably nip that in the bud.*****If you've read my blog before, you know that I've been trying to call attention to the humanitarian crisis in Somalia. There are several reasons for this, but mainly, it's just to bring notice to the fact that the attention to the crisis in Darfur is largely linked to Sudanese oil.One of my fraternity brothers is in STAND, which used to exist specifically to end the genocide in Darfur, but has now become "Students Against Genocide," which to me vaguely implies that there are students FOR genocide. I don't want to meet them.At any rate, as he explained it, public attention is currently focused on Darfur because of the oil, but because of that, they're able to create some sort of framework for attracting public attention to humanitarian crises and applying political pressure to end them. So, although they are aware of, and are working to end, the problems in Somalia, Uganda, the DRC and other such places...
