Barack Obama and John McCain spent millions of dollars in an unprecedented advertising spree yesterday hoping that the Wall Street meltdown would give them a lift in the opinion polls.Obama paid for an expensive two-minute slot on national cable television, targeting in particular the 12 so-called battlefield states. Until now television ads have generally been limited to 30-second bursts. Obama's campaign team sensed that he, rather than McCain, stood to benefit from the unsettling impact on voters of the financial collapses. The two candidates are deadlocked in the polls, a position that has surprised Republicans, given the obstacles faced by McCain, and dismayed Democrats.David Axelrod, Obama's chief strategist, said there was 'more urgency' about his team as it tried to regain the momentum lost to McCain over the last month.Given that 45% of voters describe the economy as the key issue of the election, Obama's campaign views the banking crisis as a piece of luck. The Democratic candidate's ad called for an end to 'the anything goes culture on Wall Street with real regulation that protects your investments and pensions'. McCain also put out a campaign ad, beginning early in the morning, aimed at trying to undo damage caused by his remark on Monday that the US economy was fundamentally strong. He sought to distance himself from George Bush's administration and blame corporate greed, as he has all week, as well as reassure voters. 'Enough is enough,' he said in the ad. 'I'll meet this financial crisis head on. Reform Wall Street ... Your savings, your jobs I'll keep them safe.' Neither Obama nor McCain have a background in economics. Obama has yet to establish a convincing message about how to tackle the economy and his trademark inspirational rhetoric deserts him when he turns to economic matters. McCain admitted long ago he knew little about economics, having specialised in foreign affairs.Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster, said yesterday that the Wall Street meltdown should help Obama. But he added the poll advantage would go to 'the first of the two who finds his voice'. The rival teams are awaiting the first polls taken on Monday and Tuesday that will reflect voters' response to events on Wall Street. A Reuters-Zogby poll, released yesterday and taken over the weekend amid rumours of the impending crisis, gave Obama a 2% lead nationally over McCain at 47% to 45%. That wiped out a 5% lead enjoyed by McCain a month ago.Many of the campaign ads put out by Obama and McCain usually receive only limited release, intended mainly for media consumption. It is a sign of how important the two teams judge the current crisis that they are prepared to spend big. Normally, a candidate would only buy a two-minute slot at the closing stage of a campaign.Both McCain and Obama were careful not to support the Bush administration's bailout of the insurance giant AIG. Obama described it as 'the final verdict' on the failure of the crony capitalism of the last eight years. He said the bailout should help families that rely on the insurance, not the shareholders or management of AIG.Obama had a double-digit lead - 16% in one poll - over McCain on the economy a few weeks ago but saw this evaporate to just a few points last week. The seriousness of the crisis has more or less led to a temporary halt in negative personal attacks.Republicans, without much enthusiasm, tried to exploit the $9m (4.9m) Obama raised at a Hollywood party on Tuesday night, citing it as evidence of obsession with celebrities. But the issue was drowned out by the latest financial news.
