But those who act on their emotions may be making their situations worse, according to local investment advisors.Instead, follow the professionals' lead: Sit back, take a deep breath and a long look to the future. 'As painful as it is, I would be patient right now,' said Jeff Davis, president of Falcon Financial Management. 'All you can do now is lock in your losses' if you choose to dump stocks now, he said. 'The damage is already done.' In an e-mail to clients Wednesday, he said a bear market does not end until 'there is blood in the streets,' such as the recent mergers, bailouts and failures on Wall Street. W.J. Rossi, certified financial planner with Koss-Olinger Financial Group, said a well-balanced portfolio helps investors weather a week like this. Funds indexed to the stock market are down 22 percent over the last year, but with a mix of stocks, bonds, commodities, cash and CDs may be down only 12 percent, he said. And a loss this year will be overcome by gains in other years. 'A short-term crisis shouldn't dictate your long-term goals,' Rossi said. Christopher Conner, certified financial planner with Cornerstone Financial Group, said his approach this week was to do nothing but make a list of where he wants to invest in the future. 'It's a difficult time because we're bombarded,' he said. 'It's difficult to put blinders on and look long-term, but that's what we have to do.' Those who divest may miss out when the market reverses course, as it did Thursday. 'If we get calm, the snapback rally should be pretty powerful,' Conner said. 'I would not get out unless you psychologically just can't take it anymore.' Those who want to get out of the stock market should avoid moving all their money and be aware of any tax implications, he said.As to where to move that money, the market turmoil has also upset longstanding notions of traditional safe havens.For the first time in 14 years, a money market fund's value dipped into a negative return Wednesday because of a large investment in the failed Lehman Brothers.Davis said money markets will come back and advises investors to hold onto any current holdings.Corporate bonds are also not giving the returns they used to with several companies' ratings being downgraded, but Davis said to also hold onto any of those already invested to guarantee at least your original investment.Safer havens include money markets in U.S. Treasuries, Conner said. Certificates of deposit are also safe if below the FDIC-insured threshold of $100,000 per individual account.Davis said part of the panic locally was exacerbated by the number of local state employees with AIG Retirement accounts, since the parent company was bailed out by the U.S. government this week. 'In reality, AIG is saved. People who have retirement money in AIG are OK today,' he said. Conner said with a chance of AIG Retirement being sold, 'To me it's a question of if they change your provider, who's it going to be? We're advising (clients) to consider diversifying their retirement companies.' University of Florida President Bernie Machen reassured faculty Thursday about their retirement plans, which include AIG. There are more than 7,000 Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company contracts at the university, he said. 'The money is safe and there should be no issues' with regard to the contracts, Machen said.In addition, he said, the state retirement plan is also safe and UF's endowment has suffered no major losses. 'I think our endowment as of this week is in good shape,' he said. Pensions are regulated by pension boards and give individual investors little say.Rossi said people who need to adjust their portfolios for their tolerance to risk shouldn't wait. An example is someone who was overconfident and moved to aggressive investments when the market was doing well, perhaps to make up for lost time as they near retirement. 'What if (the market) continues to go down another 10, 20 percent? It's better to be aligned sooner than later.' But Davis said investors should wait at least until the presidential election to make a move - based on risk and when they need the money - since the stock market traditionally rallies after an election. Even people who need the money soon, like retirees, should wait out the election, he said.Davis recommends a range of 75 percent stocks to 25 percent mix of bonds and nonpublicly traded real estate investment trusts for a long-term investor, to 55 percent stocks and a 45 percent mix for someone within a couple years of retirement.On the other hand, if short-term investors believe the Dow will go down to 5,000 or 6,000, moving funds to bonds or cash is a good idea, he said.Davis said he's a bull-market optimist, however. He said he is saving aggressively in his own retirement account since shares are 'on sale' in a down market. He also said brave investors can make a lot of money on the bad news. Panicked investors drive the price of stocks below what a company is worth.Conner said those with cash should be slow to invest now, however.Sun staff writer Nathan Crabbe contributed to this report. Anthony Clark can be reached at anthony.clark@gvillesun.com or 352-374-5094.
