(RTTNews) - The Presidential candidates squared off over the financial crisis Wednesday while Wall Street grappled with crumbling financial institutions. The recent financial turmoil will more than likely be inherited by either Barack Obama or John McCain following the exit of the Bush Administration in January, and the candidates exchanged fire over who is better equipped to help the financial markets through these unprecedented developments.Democratic presidential candidate Obama said Wednesday that the fact that the Federal Reserve was forced to give an emergency loan to insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG) underlines the failures of the economic philosophy of the current administration.In a statement, the Illinois senator pronounced the bailout of AIG 'the final verdict on the failed economic philosophy of the last eight years.''This crisis serves as a stark reminder of the failures of crony capitalism and an economic philosophy that sees any regulation at all as unwise and unnecessary,' Obama added. 'It's a philosophy that lets Washington lobbyists shred consumer protections and distort our economy so it works for the special interests instead of working people.'While the Obama has said he does not blame McCain directly for the current turmoil, he does believe that McCain shares the same economic philosophy that triggered the current meltdown. For much of the presidential campaign, Obama has been attempting to tie McCain to the policies of the Bush administration.However, the Arizona Senator is citing faulty regulation and a lack of oversight for the problems in the markets. failed regulation, reckless management, and a casino culture on Wall Street' for crippling AIG, McCain called for new regulation and reform.'We should never again allow the United States to be in this position,' the Republican presidential hopeful said in a statement. 'We need strong and effective regulation, a return to job-creating growth and a restoration of ethics and the social contract between businesses and America.'He also called for an investigation into the actions of company executives. McCain's recent, strong rhetoric on regulation is a departure from his previous disposition towards a more hands off approach. In 1995, McCain proposed a moratorium on all federal regulations, but it failed in Congress. The candidate's reactions follows news that the Federal Reserve agreed to provide up to $85 billion to AIG in a secured loan collateralized by all the assets of the company and its primary non-regulated subsidiaries. As a result of the loan, the government will receive a 79.9 percent equity interest in AIG. This was the latest in a series of bailouts that have taken place this year, from the Fed-brokered sale of Bear Stearns in March to the government takeover of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac' should be 'Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) earlier this month. This past weekend, Wall Street firm Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) was unable to find support, either private or public, and was forced to file for bankruptcy. Continued... 
