Stocks continue to show substantial weakness in mid-afternoon trading on Monday, as investors speculate about the reshaping of the financial sector. Earlier in the day, a major Wall Street firm filed for bankruptcy, while one of the largest insurers is trying to shore up its balance sheet. New York State is helping bail out trouble insurance provider American International Group (AIG), Governor David Paterson announced Monday. Stating at a press conference that AIG remains a 'financially sound' company, Paterson said the State of New York is allowing the nation's largest insurer to access $20 billion in assets held by its subsidiaries through a bridge loan, granting access to fast cash for daily operations.Meanwhile, troubled investment bank Lehman Brothers (LEH) said Monday morning that it intended to file a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York in order to protect its assets and maximize value. The company is also exploring the sale of its broker-dealer operations and is in advanced discussions with potential purchasers to sell its Investment Management Division.Separately, Bank of America (BAC) said on Sunday that it agreed to acquire New York-based investment bank Merrill Lynch (MER) in a $50 billion all-stock transaction. Bank of America will exchange 0.8595 shares of its common stock for each Merrill Lynch common share. The price is 1.8 times stated tangible book value.In recent trading the major averages have been trading in a loose range just above their session lows. The Dow is currently down 287.09 at 11,134.90, the Nasdaq is down 45.38 at 2,215.89 and the S&amp;amp;P 500 is down 32.31 at 1,219.39.Dow ComponentsThe majority of the Dow components are posting sharp losses in afternoon trading, sending the blue chip index significantly lower. Of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow, only 2 are seeing any strength.AIG is leading the Dow sharply lower, as investors express uncertainty about the insurer's future. Shares of AIG are currently trading down by 52.9 percent, extending a notable decline seen in the previous session. With the drop, the stock is on track to close at its worst level in well over a decade. 1 2 3 Next Page 
