IT is a mark of just how quickly things are moving in the financial markets these days that, even as the feds were being praised for allowing an investment bank to go belly up, they were planning to bail out the insurance giant AIG before the day was over.In the case of AIG, however, 'bailout' might be too strong a word. In return for a loan of $85 billion from the federal government, the government received a 79.9 percent stake in the company.The head of the company immediately was dismissed, and its owners, the stockholders have lost most of their investment.With any luck, the taxpayers might even reap a profit when pieces of the world's largest insurer are sold off within the next couple of years. The company's troubles aren't expected to have any impact on AIG policyholders.The collapse of AIG, like so many firms and banks before it, is more fallout from the real estate bust. AIG wasn't in the mortgage business, however.Rather, it insured the exotic financial instruments that were constructed from subprime mortgages, helping to grease the market, as it were. It's unfortunate that a company that is supposed to understand real risk failed so badly to identify it in this instance.The bad news for the rest of us is, most experts agree the worst isn't over yet. Because of that, everyone in the stock market - which these days is just about everyone hoping to retire some day - has taken a beating.Nor does it appear either presidential candidate will be able to do much to end the crisis if elected beyond trying to pick up the pieces. They are undoubtedly right that there needs to be a re-evaluation of the regulatory scheme. There also appears to be widespread agreement - by both the Wall Street Journal and New York Times, for instance - that a new version of the Resolution Trust Corp., which helped end the S&amp;amp;L crisis two decades ago, could be used to ease the current crisis, too.The good news is, so far, there doesn't seem to be signs of panic in the general public. They might be keeping a tight rein on their cash, but there haven't been any runs on banks or rushes to cash out retirement accounts.We can only hope their patience eventually is rewarded. If not, the current financial crisis could get much worse before it's over.- Reno (Nev.) Gazette-Journal
