 A man watches a display showing stock prices in Hong Kong, 18 Sep 2008 Fears of a global financial meltdown have forced the world's major central banks to join forces. The banks, led by the U.S. Federal Reserve, say they will pump hundreds of billions of dollars into the world's financial markets. They hope the move will help restore the confidence of investors, who have sent key stock indexes spiraling downward in recent days. Officials also hope additional cash will encourage banks to lend to each other, as well as to businesses and investors. Without that lending, the economy could stall. The influx of cash seems to be reassuring some investors. U.S. stock indexes moved up in Thursday's trading. European indexes made early gains but closed mostly lower. U.S. President George Bush tried to calm nervous investors in a televised speech from the White House today where he outlined a long list of 'extraordinary' steps the government has taken to help markets. He pledged to continue working to restore investor confidence. Still, Russian officials have suspended trading again today on the country's two leading financial markets, RTS and Micex. Tokyo's Nikkei Index fell to its lowest level in three years. And Chinese officials are taking action to stabilize that country's economy. Despite indications that the influx of cash into the financial markets is easing concerns, many investors are worried about which large banks may be the next to fail. One of the biggest U.S. savings and loan banks, Washington Mutual, is reported to have put itself up for sale. And stocks of the two biggest U.S. securities firms, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both fell more than 15 percent Wednesday. Meanwhile, London-based Lloyds TSB has reached a deal to buy Halifax Bank of Scotland (HBOS) for nearly $22 billion. Shares of the bank have plummeted in recent days. The Federal Reserve gave an $85 billion emergency loan earlier this week to bail out the world's biggest insurance company, American International Group (AIG). The U.S. central bank said the loan was necessary to prevent a 'disorderly failure' of AIG that could make troubled financial markets worse. AIG nearly collapsed after major losses in the housing crisis. Some information for this report was provided by AFP, AP and Reuters. VOA News 
