Find out what this historic city has to offer  Get involved: send your photos, videos, news &amp;amp; views by texting us  Lloyds TSB is on the brink of sealing a dramatic rescue of ailing mortgage giant Halifax Bank of Scotland.HBOS, whose share price plunged by as much as 70% this week amid funding worries, confirmed it was in 'advanced talks' over a merger that would create a 30 billion banking giant with nearly a third of the UK mortgage market.It is thought the Government may waive competition rules to get the transaction over competition hurdles, and reportedly follows talks between Lloyds TSB chairman Sir Victor Blank and Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The Treasury and the Financial Services Authority have also been involved.A takeover of HBOS would end uncertainty about the health of the bank, but there were immediate fears about the implications for the 135,000 UK staff employed by both firms - 65,000 by HBOS and the remainder at Lloyds TSB.Alex Salmond, the First Minister of Scotland - where around 17,000 HBOS jobs are based - attacked the 'spivs and speculators' he blamed for targeting the Scottish-based bank. He said any merger between the two should be based on measured discussion, not a 'shotgun marriage' driven by speculation.The potential merger is the latest dramatic episode this week which has already seen the collapse of 158-year-old investment bank Lehman Brothers and the 85 billion US dollar (47.2bn) bail-out of US insurance giant AIG.Central banks around the world have pumped tens of billions of pounds into money markets to try and ease nerves. London's leading share index fell nearly 4% on Monday and Tuesday, while another 2% was lost on Wednesday after poor US housing figures and continued worries over the health of investment banks.The Footsie is now at its lowest point since May 2005.Lloyds TSB is reportedly willing to pay no more than 2 a share for HBOS, less than a fifth of the stock's value last summer.That would be bad news for the company's two million smaller shareholders, many of whom picked up their holdings when Halifax demutualised more than a decade ago.   Around the site  The US government will provide a 47.2bn emergency loan to rescue the huge insurer AIG, the Federal Reserve has said. Newcastle's Spanish striker Xisco has broken the players' wall of silence to admit the team is suffering from the turmoil that has engulfed the club.A MODERN home in St Albans has been nominated for a national award. Jason Donovan has signed up to star in the stage adaptation of Priscilla Queen Of The Desert. The US government will provide a 47.2bn emergency loan to rescue the huge insurer AIG, the Federal Reserve has said. Newcastle's Spanish striker Xisco has broken the players' wall of silence to admit the team is suffering from the turmoil that has engulfed the club. A MODERN home in St Albans has been nominated for a national award. Jason Donovan has signed up to star in the stage adaptation of Priscilla Queen Of The Desert. HBOS confirmed it is in talks with Lloyds TSB over a possible takeover HBOS confirmed it is in talks with Lloyds TSB over a possible takeover HBOS confirmed it is in talks with Lloyds TSB over a possible takeover Find a job in St Albans and all around Hertfordshire. 
