WASHINGTON -- In another breathtaking display of government intervention, top officials at the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve began discussing with congressional leaders a plan to buy up vast numbers of distressed mortgages held by ailing financial institutions.While the details of the plan remain to be hammered out, the discussions could result in the biggest bailout in U.S. history, and the most direct commitment of taxpayer funds so far in the worst financial crisis that Fed and Treasury officials say they have ever seen. 'What we are working on now is an approach to deal with systemic risks and stresses in our capital markets,' said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. It would be 'a comprehensive approach that would require legislation to deal with the illiquid assets on financial institutions' balance sheets.' The essence of the new plan is expected to be loosely modeled on the Resolution Trust Corp. that bought up and eventually sold hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of real estate in the 1990s from failed savings-and-loan companies. But in this case, the government is expected to take over only distressed assets, not entire institutions.It came on a day when the Federal Reserve poured almost $300 billion into global credit markets and barely dented the panic. Hoping to shore up confidence with a show of financial shock and awe, the Federal Reserve stunned investors before dawn yesterday by announcing a plan to provide $180 billion to financial markets, through lending programs operated by the European Central Bank and the central banks of Canada, Japan, England and Switzerland.Rumors of the Bush administration's new stance swept through the stock markets yesterday afternoon. Still, the move took most of Washington by surprise, especially since Congress had been trying to finish up its business and head home to campaign for re-election.But after an initial sense of relief swept markets in Asia and Europe, the fear quickly returned. The anxiety remained so high that the Federal Reserve had to inject an extra $100 billion, in two waves of $50 billion each, just to keep the benchmark federal funds rate at the Fed's target of 2 percent.Yet none of those actions brought much catharsis or relief, with banks around the world remaining too frightened to lend to each other, much less to their customers. This forced Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke to think the unthinkable -- committing taxpayer money to buy hundreds of billions of dollars in distressed assets from struggling institutions.A growing number of Democratic leaders, as well as many banking executives, have been pushing for a sweeping bargain in which the government would buy up billions of dollars in bad mortgages. As part of the bargain, lenders would negotiate easier loan terms with distressed homeowners.But the scale and complexity of the project are almost certain to create huge philosophical differences among the parties that could make negotiations difficult, to say the least.President Bush and his top advisers have adamantly opposed bailouts. But the mortgage meltdown has already forced the Treasury and the Fed to bail out four of the nation's most prominent financial institutions -- Bear Stearns in March; Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac earlier this month; and American International Group, the insurance conglomerate, just this week.Created in 1989, the Resolution Trust Corp. disposed of bad assets held by hundreds of crippled savings institutions. The agency closed or reorganized 747 institutions holding assets of nearly $400 billion. It did so by seizing the assets of troubled savings and loans and then reselling them to bargain-seeking investors. By 1995, the S&amp;amp;L crisis abated, and the agency was folded into the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which Congress created during the Great Depression to regulate banks and protect the accounts of customers when they fail.Yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average shot up 617 points from its low point in mid-afternoon, its biggest surge in six years, and ended the day with a gain of 410 points, or 3.9 percent. 'The markets voted, and they liked the proposal,' said Laurence H. Meyer, vice chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers. 'That leaves us an open question, politically, about whether that is a feasible direction to go in, in the absence of legislation from Congress.' The stock surge began after Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., announced his own proposal for a government rescue on the Senate floor and declared that both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve were open to all ideas.By any reckoning, Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke were desperate by last evening. Over the prior 10 days, they had allowed one Wall Street firm, Lehman Brothers, to collapse; and an even-bigger Wall Street firm, Merrill Lynch, to be sold to Bank of America. Then on Tuesday, the Federal Reserve abruptly took over the nation's biggest insurance conglomerate, American International Group, and began bailing it out with an $85 billion loan.The meeting in the Capitol, which began around 7 p.m., came after congressional leaders had initially appeared unclear about what role they would play in the rapid-fire decisions being made. Leaders of both parties had complained about a lack of hard information from the administration.House Republicans even canceled a closed-door party session yesterday morning after the administration refused to provide an official to brief them on its emerging policies.But as yesterday progressed, congressional leaders sought to reassert themselves on the crisis, scheduling oversight hearings, calling for a legislative response to the market turmoil and offering to put off an adjournment set to start at the end of next week if the administration and Congress could find common ground on a solution.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., in a letter sent to Mr. Bush last evening, reiterated that view. 'We stand ready beyond the targeted adjournment date of September 26 to permit Congress to consider legislative proposals and conduct necessary investigations,' she wrote, noting that 'the worsening crisis in our financial markets demands strong solutions and decisive leadership.' But whether a legislative consensus could be found remained an open question, and members of Mr. Bush's own party were among those most critical of the increasing federal intervention in the private markets.Rep. Jeb Hensarling, R-Texas, who heads a coalition of House conservatives, was circulating a letter to the administration demanding that it not engage in any further bailouts. And House Minority Leader John A. Boehner, R-Ohio, also expressed wariness about the administration approach as well as a lack of communication with Congress. 'I'm concerned about taxpayer funds being put at risk, and it's something that should concern all of us,' he said. Even before last night's session with Mr. Paulson -- the second for top congressional leaders this week -- the House had scheduled new oversight hearings. The House Banking Committee set a session for next week, with Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke as witnesses. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee set hearings for early October to examine developments that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the AIG bailout, even though Congress is to be in recess.Ms. Pelosi, suggesting the public was probably not of a mind to wait until 2009 for a congressional fix, said lawmakers first had to explore the causes of the problems and potential solutions in hearings. 'Let's hear from the Bernankes and the Paulsons and the rest what their view of it is,' she said. 'Let's hear from the private sector. How these captains of the financial world could make millions of dollars in salary, and yet their companies fail, and then we have to step in to bail them out.' Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke have been studying an array of new, sometimes-radical approaches to fight what current and former Fed officials describe as the worst financial crisis they have ever seen.But the Fed has already stretched itself very thin by launching a number of huge new emergency lending programs for banks, Wall Street firms and, this week, a giant insurance company.With the Fed running short of unencumbered reserves, the Treasury Department had begun raising fresh cash for the central bank by selling new Treasury bills at an unprecedented pace -- $200 billion this week alone -- and parking it at the Fed for whatever use it wanted.Outside the central bank, experts have begun to suggest a slew of more directed efforts: accelerating the Treasury Department's plan to buy billions of dollars' worth of mortgage-backed securities; and having the Treasury or the Fed move into the bond-insurance market, which was crippled this week by the AIG collapse.In theory, there is no limit to how much money the Fed and the Treasury can throw at the crisis. But the dangers are almost as alarming as the crisis itself. The biggest is that the Fed would unleash a new epidemic of inflation, just as it did in the late 1960s at the height of the Vietnam War.Fed intervention could also fuel yet another speculative bubble. Many economists now believe that the Fed at least aggravated the catastrophic bubble in housing prices by keeping interest rates too low for too long after the stock market bubble burst in 2000 and the economic recession in 2001. Fed intervention could also distort financial markets in countless subtler ways, many of which are difficult to anticipate in advance. 
