CENTRAL JERSEY Stocks posted big losses in markets across much of the globe Monday as investors absorbed the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and what was essentially a forced sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. to Bank of America for $50 billion in stock.While the Lehman and Merrill situations had reached some resolution, the market remained anxious about American International Group Inc., which is seeking emergency funding to shore up its balance sheet.The Dow Jones industrials average tumbled 504.48 points in its worst point drop since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks seven years ago.AIG, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow industrials, fell $7.38, or 61 percent, to $4.76 as investors worried that it would be the subject of downgrades from credit ratings agencies.Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index declined 59.00, or 4.71 percent, to 1,192.70  also its biggest drop since 9/11 and the first time it closed below 1,200 in three years.The Nasdaq composite index fell 81.36, or 3.60 percent, to 2,179.91; that was its worst point loss since Jan. 4.'The idea if you want to buy high and sell low, here's your opportunity,' said Steven W. Kaye, a certified financial planner who is the president of Watchung-based American Economic Planning Group. 'I didn't say it's (the financial sector) not going to go lower, but with all that's going on, there's a good chance we are reaching a low.'A pair of local financial planners, including Kaye, said yesterday that although the major market developments will affect people in different ways, the conversation should remain the same whether you're a go-it-alone investor or someone who won't make a move without professional backing.Their overriding tip: Spread the wealth.'Today's news is today, and if you needed the money today or tomorrow or in the short-term, this news should be irrelevant to you because you shouldn't have been exposed to it,' said Marc L. Scudillo, a Bridgewater-based certified financial planner and certified public account who is managing officer of Amper Financial Services' Wealth Management and Corporate Benefits.Although Scudillo said the continuing bad news will impact everyone's portfolios, he said having a plan that spreads the wealth  often called diversification  helps insulate investors from the twists and turns of a volatile market.'We wouldn't want to make any emotional or reactionary decisions just based upon the events,' Scudillo said. 'We want to make sure that the game plan needs to be adjusted based upon facts, not upon emotions. But we're here to help the clients decipher through what's emotion and what's fact.'Investors are worried that trouble at AIG and the bankruptcy filing by Lehman, felled by $60 billion in bad debt and a dearth of investor confidence, will touch off another series of troubles for banks and financial institutions that may be forced to further write down the value of their own debt assets. AIG's current situation stands in contrast to its popular TV commercials, which depict the company as the premier choice for insurance services.AIG's troubles, a week after its stock dropped 45 percent, are worrisome for some investors because of the company's enormous balance sheet and the risks that troubles with that company's finances could spill over to the companies with which it does business.'There could be another wave of bad news for banks right around the corner, but you don't want to make giant bets when you're an investor,' Kaye said, 'because when you make giant bets you'll hit home runs or you'll strike out.'Courier News Staff Writer Brandon Lausch contributed to this report.
