AMERICAs worst financial crisis since the 1930s took a fresh twist last night, with Wall Street institutions working on a plan to bail out insurance giant AIG, just hours after Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter 11 protection and Bank of America snapped up Merrill Lynch for $50bn.The crisis at AIG weighed heavily on the US stock market, which collapsed by its largest one-day amount since trading reopened after 9/11. The Dow collapsed 504 points to 10,917.51. The Federal Reserve asked Goldman Sachs and J.P. Morgan Chase to help organise up to $75bn in loans to AIG, though it remained unclear whether the plan would get off the ground.New York State regulators will also allow AIG to access $20bn from its own subsidiaries to prevent a liquidity crisis and credit downgrades. It is seeking to raise $40bn in fresh capital. Earlier in the day, central banks injected vast amounts of liquidity into the markets. The Federal Reserve also made it easier for banks to borrow from it by using a wider range of collateral.A consortium of ten banks agreed to pour a combined $70bn into a vast liquidity fund to allow investment banks to secure short-term funding, mitigating the effects of Lehmans collapse. Bank of Americas CEO Ken Lewis said yesterday that he felt no pressure from the US government to buy Merrill. In Canary Wharf, dozens of PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC) administrators began to look at Lehmans trading books.Lead administrator Tony Lomas said that sales activity had been suspended while his team assesses potential outcomes for creditors. He also expressed doubts that a $75m wage bill, due to be paid to staff on Friday, would be fulfilled, adding that the scale of the task facing PwC was larger and more complex than the wind-up of either Enron or MG Rover.Any hopes of a quick firesale of Lehmans assets was also dashed last night when the administrator in charge of winding down the bank said there was no mad rush to secure any deals. Barclays is still believed to be interested in Lehmans US broker dealer.The short-list of buyers for its investment management arm includes private-equity firms Bain Capital, Hellman &amp;amp; Friedman and Clayton Dubilier &amp;amp; Rice.Black day for Wall Streets giant namesTHIS weekend saw a seismic shift in the tectonic plates of Wall Street as Lehman Brothers plunged into insolvency, Bank of America hoovered up Merrill Lynch and American International Group (AIG) was left in crisis.As the details began to unravel, it was clear that the landscape of the financial services industry had changed irrevocably, with some of its most high-profile names left bloodied and beaten. Lehman Brothers, whose major players were once dubbed the Masters of the Universe, filed for Chapter 11 insolvency after eleventh hour talks with Federal Reserve officials and major banking chiefs to rescue the institution drew a blank.The bank had been desperately casting around for investment after it revealed new writedowns of $7.8bn last week, leading to a loss of $3.9bn, the largest in its history.But both Barclays and Bank of America walked away as Sunday afternoons negotiations wore on, put off by the US Treasurys refusal to guarantee Lehmans assets. US treasury secretary Hank Paulson believed that the markets could absorb the shock of Lehmans collapse and remained steadfast in his commitment not to bail out the bank as he did for Bear Stearns and the twin mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) responded on Sunday night by opening an emergency trading session to allow dealers with Lehman Brothers counterparty risk to protect themselves. Finally, the 158-year-old bank was left with little option but to file for bankruptcy, with PriceWaterhouse-Coopers acting as the banks administrator in the UK.And London was already feeling the impact of the banks collapse yesterday as UK banking shares slumped and dozens of Lehman employees  of which there are 4,000 in London  began clearing their desks. Just hours after walking away from Lehman, Bank of America, the largest retail bank in the US, switched its sights to Merrill Lynch in a surprise bid to shore up the financial services sector by taking over a stockbroker that some had tipped as the next major institution to go under.BofA confirmed yesterday that it will buy Merrill, one of Wall Streets oldest names, for around $50bn, at $29 a share, a third of its value at the beginning of 2007. S h a r e h o l d e r s immediately filed a lawsuit against Merrill Lynch chief executive officer John Thain and the firms board of directors over the proposed buyout, claiming the terms of the deal were unfair.But the deal, which will include bolt-ons such as fund manager BlackRock, will see the creation of a gigantic financial services institution to rival Citigroup, the largest US bank by assets. And the marriage should be a happy one, as Bank of America will be able to offer Merills retail stockbroking service to its enormous customer base  unless culture clashes spiral out of control.However, the crisis has raised serious questions about the viability of investment banks that are not part of a larger institution. Merrill has been a strong and respected competitor in the marketplace, Ken Lewis, BofAs chairman and chief executive said yesterday. But the market continues to question the viability of a standalone investment bank.
