WASHINGTON -- Shares on Wall Street plunged Monday morning as traders steadied for a financial hurricane after the federal government refused over the weekend to bail out the venerable investment bank, Lehman Brothers. Lehman announced it would declare bankruptcy.European exchanges were trading down between 4 percent and 5 percent, and a similar steep plunge was expected on Wall Street, where fear is running rampant. Minutes after the 9:30 a.m. EDT opening of markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 300 points and the S&amp;amp;P 500 and Nasdaq exchanges fell precipitously too.While grim, this drop was less than feared and fell short of the panic some analysts had feared. A widening crisis in credit markets had investors mumbling about shades of 1929 and the great stock market crash associated with the Great Depression. The Treasury Department and Federal Reserve worked around the clock over the weekend in hopes of staving off a wider global meltdown.'We have been and remain in close contact with other U.S. and international regulators, supervisory authorities, and central banks to monitor and share information on conditions in financial markets and firms around the world,' Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said.The Federal Reserve on Sunday night broadened the range of collateral it would accept from struggling financial companies seeking short-term loans, in a bid to contain the financial crisis.As investors fled almost every asset class on Monday morning, the price of next-month delivery oil contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange also plunged. They were down almost $6 a barrel to $95.62 a barrel. If this price holds, it will mean Wall Street's losses are Main Street's gain. The price of gasoline should be sharply cheaper for consumers in the weeks ahead and this should boost consumer confidence.President Bush was expected to address the nation midmorning, after receiving a briefing from his treasury secretary, Henry Paulson. Bush is expected to remind Americans that the deposits in their local banks are secure and insured by Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.Even before the gold-medal winning U.S. women's soccer team rang the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange, it was already a busy morning on Wall Street. Bank of America's board of directors had approved the surprise $50 billion purchase of investment banking giant Merrill Lynch, and Lehman Brothers was in the process of filing for bankruptcy.At the start of the weekend, Merrill was considered a potential buyer of Lehman but instead offered itself up to Bank of America, the nation's largest bank, which now becomes one of the most important stock market players. Earlier in the year it completed the purchase of Countrywide, the nation's largest mortgage lender, and Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America is now a muscular company with few parallels.'We thought this was the strategic opportunity of a lifetime,' said Ken Lewis, Bank of America's CEO, said in a morning news conference announcing the acquisition of a competitor and adding that Merrill will continue operating under its own name.In another unexpected and unprecedented move, the insurance and financial services giant American International Group (AIG) was talking to the Federal Reserve on Monday about securing an emergency line of credit. Investors are fleeing the company, whose stock fell by 31 percent on Friday and fell again on Monday morning.AIG's problems underscore why Wall Street is in a state of near-panic. AIG isn't an insolvent company and already raised $20 billion this year to shore up its balance sheets.
