TALLAHASSEE - Wall Street's latest financial crisis will likely cost Florida taxpayers millions of dollars, but the state's $24 billion in treasury investments are so diversified, there's no reason to panic, Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink said Tuesday. 'It's like putting 200 eggs in one basket and having only one cracked egg,' Sink told Gov. Charlie Crist and fellow Cabinet members at a morning meeting.Investors and fund managers have ample reason to be jittery after this weekend's news that Lehman Brothers, the nation's fourth-largest investment bank, is filing for bankruptcy and that another Wall Street giant, Merrill Lynch, agreed to be bought by Bank of America to avoid a similar fate, Sink said. 'There's some speculation about other large financial institutions and we have to keep a watchful eye,' Sink said, but, 'there's no need for panic. That's my basic message.' Sink's review of the treasury, which she called the state's 'checking account,' showed that it held $139.5 million in Lehman bonds as of Friday, or just 0.6 percent of its entire investment portfolioOf that, $104 million was invested in senior debt, which means Florida will be among the first in line among Lehman's creditors to get its money back.However, another $35.4 million is in 'subordinate debt,' will likely return only pennies on the dollar after the financial mess is sorted out, said Sink spokeswoman Tara Klimek.Bob Milligan, acting director of the state Board of Administration, told Crist and Cabinet members that the state's pension fund remains 'extremely healthy.' The $125 billion pension fund has about $250 million in investments in Lehman Brothers, less than 1 percent. Like only a handful of state pension funds, Florida's is fully funded and has a surplus of more than $6 billion.Richard Ferlauto, who follows state pension funds for the government worker union, AFSCME, agreed that Florida's pension is better positioned than most to weather a financial downturn.But he warned that participants who opt for a higher-yielding defined contribution plan could get stung by a volatile stock market.In all, Florida has about $500 million in Lehman stocks and bonds in investments managed by Citizens Property Insurance, the state treasury and other funds managed by the SBA. Citizens' exposure is the lowest, with $39.25 million in bonds that also would be put at the front of the line for repayment in a Lehman's bankruptcy proceeding, said Citizens spokesman John Kuczwanski.A spokesman said Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty waits for further information to decide how Florida will respond to the troubles faced by teetering insurance giant, AIG. 'The commissioner does not want to publicly speculate on any 'what-if' scenarios until we have more information,' said Office of Insurance Regulation spokesman Edward Domansky.
