Share:TORONTO -- A crisis of confidence -- in stocks, in the economy, in major corporations -- gripped North American markets again yesterday, plunging Canadian share prices to a two-year low and rattling Wall Street as unnerved investors triggered a flood of panic buying in gold and other assets. The Toronto market lost nearly 350 points and entered into so-called bear territory, closing below 12,000 for the first time since October 2006. Canadian share prices are now more 21% below their recent June high, with a loss of nearly $400 billion in market value. In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped about 450 points, as the market was more unnerved than comforted by news that the Federal Reserve is bailing out American International Group, the world's largest insurer, which lost billions in the risky business of insuring against bond defaults. Wall Street had feared that the conglomerate, which has its tentacles in various financial industries around the world, would follow the investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy. Many North American investors took comfort in gold. The metal, often seen as a good bet for stability, jumped a whopping US$90.40, or 11.6%, to US$870.90 an ounce in after-hours trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That was the biggest one-day price jump ever in dollar terms and largest daily advance by percentage since 1999.   'SCARED TO DEATH' In just days, investors have watched the fall of one financial titan after another as some of the world's biggest financial services firms simply collapsed under the weight of their own losses.  'People are scared to death,' said Bill Stone, chief investment strategist for PNC Wealth Management. 'Who would have imagined that AIG would have gotten into this position?'  The volatility is expected to continue for days and possibly weeks as investors try to assess when the bleeding will stop on Wall Street. American International, known as AIG, had to be bailed out by the U.S. government late Tuesday after losing billions in the risky business of insuring against bond defaults. One of the world's biggest insurance companies, AIG was handed a two-year, $85-billion loan by the U.S. Federal Reserve Board in exchange for a nearly 80% stake in the insurer. But the scariest part for many was the fact the move pretty much wiped out the value of AIG's stock -- and if it can happen to a company that big, who is immune?  'This is a classic case of a flight to safety,' said Julie Brough, vice-president of private wealth management at Morgan Meighen and Associates. 'We're seeing hordes of money' rolling into U.S. Treasury bills and gold prices going up,' she said.  Yesterday's losses came a day after Bay Street and Wall Street markets had calmed down a bit after 500-point drops Monday in the wake of the bankruptcy of the Lehman Brothers brokerage and the US$50 billion sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America. Next story:    
