','http:ads.cnn.com/html.ng/site=cnn_money&amp;amp;cnn_money_pagetype=article&amp;amp;cnn_money_position=220x200_ctr&amp;amp;cnn_money_rollup=markets_and_stocks&amp;amp;cnn_money_section=quigo THE EVENT: As Congress debates bailout legislation, Warren Buffett provided a measure of relief to the financial sector as his company agreed to invest $5 billion in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS).Meanwhile, the FBI has started a preliminary investigation of four companies at the heart of the financial crisis - Fannie Mae (FNM), Freddie Mac (FRE), Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) and American International Group Inc. ( AIG).On Capitol Hill, legislators grilled Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson on the federal government's $700 billion rescue package and compromise on at least one key point may be in the offing.BACKGROUND: The financial crisis started last year as a problem with subprime mortgages and now has ensnared all of Wall Street's largest firms as well as American taxpayers. The model of independent investment banks on Wall Street has ceased to exist, and the U.S. government has effectively taken control of the country's biggest mortgage lenders - Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac - and the world's largest insurance company, AIG.MARKET REACTION: U.S stocks rose pre-market Wednesday on news of Buffet's investment in Goldman. That follows a second day of stock losses as stocks fell Tuesday on the chilly reception from Congress to the federal government's bailout plan.Crude-oil futures rose Wednesday as the market waits for weekly U.S. inventory data due out at 10:30 a.m. EDT. Inventories are expected to decrease because of Hurricane Ike.Treasurys fell and the dollar rose against the Japanese yen but fell against the euro.NOTABLE NEWS:-Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRKA, BRKB) agreed to spend $5 billion on Goldman 'perpetual' preferred shares, which aren't convertible into equity but pay a 10% dividend. Berkshire also will get warrants granting it the right to buy $5 billion of Goldman common shares at $115 a share, 8% below Goldman's closing price on Tuesday. Shares of Goldman rose 4.8% in pre-market trading Wednesday.-The FBI opened a probe to determine whether fraud helped cause some of the troubles at Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Lehman and AIG. While it is unclear what crimes, if any, investigators will find, one outcome might be fraud cases being bought at the retail level related to falsified mortgage applications.-AIG definitively agreed to take a two-year $85 billion revolving-credit facility from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Edward M. Liddy said the company made an 'exhaustive' effort to find private financing to meet its liquidity needs, but was unable to do so in the current market.-Applications filed for mortgages last week decreased a seasonally adjusted 10.6% from a week earlier, while interest rates charged on fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgages rose, the Mortgage Bankers Association said.-After testimony Tuesday from Bernanke and Paulson on the proposed bailout package, House and Senate Republican leaders appear to be willing to compromise on a key point of contention between Democrats and the White House - limiting compensation for executives of companies that participate in the rescue plan. Paulson argues that companies may not participate in the plan if pay limits are imposed. Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http: www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=PJeHmS4lRrSS53ZpCwJJZg%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 09-24-08 0938ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
