eep decline and bond prices jumped Tuesday, a day after Wall Streets worst session in years, as nervous investors grappled with concerns about insurer American International Group Inc. and awaited the Federal Reserves decision on interest rates.Related Links:Henry PaulsonWorries about the well-being of AIG have intensified after the several ratings agencies reduced their ratings on the company. Lower ratings can add to the amount of money the already cash-strapped company has to set aside. Investors are fearful that a failure by the worlds largest insurance company would touch off a wave of financial turmoil. AIG fell $3.09, or 65 percent, to $1.67 in early trading.Comments from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. about the banking sector added to investors glum mood.Markets around the world were still reeling from the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the quickly assembled weekend sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. to Bank of America Corp. Investors fear that tectonic shifts in the power structure of Wall Street signal that the financial sectors trouble with imperiled credit are far from over.In the first half-hour of trading, the Dow fell 48.61, or 0.45 percent, to 10,868.90. The Dow fell as much as 175 in the opening minutes of the session; on Monday, the Dow lost 504 points, its largest drop since the September 2001 terror attacks.Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard &amp;amp; Poors 500 index declined 11.59, or 0.97 percent, to 1,181.11, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 19.83, or 0.91 percent, to 2,160.08.Bond prices jumped as investors sought the safety of government debt. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.30 percent from 3.41 percent late Monday.Monday's pullback, which erased about $700 billion in shareholder wealth, occurred across much of the globe as investors absorbed Lehman's bankruptcy filing and what was essentially a forced sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America for $50 billion in stock. While those companies' situations had reached some resolution, the market remained anxious about American International Group Inc., which is seeking funding to shore up its balance sheet.Investors likely shrank from snapping up any bargains Monday after Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said from the White House he 'never once' considered using taxpayer money to help prop up Lehman. That punctured hopes that the federal government might come to the rescue of AIG.A faltering of the world's largest insurance company likely would have implications far beyond that of Lehman, already the largest U.S. bankruptcy in terms of assets.The swift developments that took place Sunday are the biggest yet in the 14-month-old credit crisis that stems from now-toxic subprime mortgage debt.Investors are worried that trouble at AIG and the bankruptcy filing by Lehman, felled by $60 billion in bad debt and a dearth of investor confidence, will touch off another series of troubles for banks and financial institutions that may be forced to further write down the value of their own debt assets. Wall Street had been hopeful six months ago that the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. would mark the darkest day of the credit crisis.AIG's troubles are worrisome for some investors because of the company's enormous balance sheet and the risks that its troubles could spill over to the companies with which it does business. AIG, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow industrials, fell $7.38, or 61 percent, to $4.76 as investors worried that it would be the subject of downgrades from credit ratings agencies.'We have a very, very nervous market and folks hate uncertainty,' said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at Wachovia Securities in St. Louis. 'They've been waiting for another shoe to drop and two of them dropped on Sunday.'
