You may have never heard of American International Group or AIG until this week. But AIG insures, well just about everything. It's the largest insurance company in the country with more than a trillion dollars in assets. The government says a possible failure of AIG is a greater risk that the 85 billion dollar taxpayer backed loan going to the company. The government's bailout of AIG follows a similar action involving Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. How do taxpayers feel about their money going to save these large financial corporations? We find out in tonight's Money Matters. Taxpayers now own 80 percent of the nation's largest insurer. With a current deficit of 438 billion and a national debt of 9.7 trillion, many people wonder how the United States government can afford to loan AIG 85 billion dollars. Taxpayer Cindy McCarthy says, 'I'm not a big fan of the bailouts. A lot of the crisis has been of their own making and they need to suffer consequences.' Taxpayer Adam Weber says, 'Part of me thinks if it's better for the country as a whole, we should consider it. The other part of me is why this company and not others?' But actually there have been plenty of others: The Fed pledged $29 billion in the Bear Stearns sale to JP Morgan $200 billion or $100 billion each to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. $300 billion to pump up the Federal Housing Authority $85 billion in a loan to AIG And $300 plus billion to various other rescue deals and loans' Cynthia McCarthy says, 'And yes, we're not even into it yet. We haven't even seen the tip of the iceberg.' If the government didn't bailout AIG and it would fail, it would cause markets around the world to skydive, directly affecting your retirement accounts. AIG has 74 million clients in 130 countries. If the taxpayer loan means saving the economy from crashing, some say it's the right move. Thomas Hunt says, 'In the long run I think it's the best thing for the economy and the people.' The two independent Wall Street investment banks left standing; Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are under scrutiny, as well as Washington Mutual, the country's largest thrift. Both presidential candidates are calling for regulatory reform, saying the government must do more to monitor financial institutions. AIG Bailout
