A stunning day on Wall Street  resulted in a 400-point plunge for the Dow Jones Index, a buyout of brokerage giant Merrill Lynch, a bankruptcy filing by Lehman Bros. and a federal plea for major banks to offer loans to floundering insurance giant AIG.The news on AIG came as the state of New York gave the company permission to borrow $20 billion from its subsidiary companies.Earlier in the day, some were cheered by the fact that the federal government  did not step in to bail out Lehman. The government did step in earlier to take control of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.The news capped a nervous weekend, overshadowed by damage caused by Hurricane Ike. that Federal officials hold meetings to stave off what observers saw as a possible meltdown in financial markets.Ties to Delaware are many. In addition to local brokerage offices, Merrill owns a controlling stake in investment manager Black Rock, which has operations in north Wilmington. Bank of America has its credit card headquarters in Wilmington and Lehman Bros operates a savings bank in Delaware. AIG is a major employer in Delaware with a work force estimated at 1,000.'Acquiring one of the premier wealth management, capital markets, and advisory companies is a great opportunity for our shareholders,' Bank of America Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Lewis said. 'Together, our companies are more valuable because of the synergies in our businesses.' Lewis said the deal did not come as the result of pressure from fedreal regulators.'Merrill Lynch is a great global franchise and I look forward to working with Ken Lewis and our senior management teams to create what will be the leading financial institution in the world with the combination of these two firms,' said John Thain, chairman and CEO of Merrill Lynch.Under terms of the transaction, Bank of America would exchange .8595 shares of Bank of America common stock for each Merrill Lynch common share. The price is 1.8 times stated tangible book value.Bank of America expects to achieve $7 billion in pre-tax expense savings, fully realized by 2012. The acquisition is expected to add to earnings by 2010.The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009. It has been approved by directors of both companies and is subject to shareholder votes at both companies and standard regulatory approvals.The combined company would have leadership positions in retail brokerage and wealth management. By adding Merrill Lynch's more than 16,000 financial advisers, Bank of America would have the largest brokerage in the world with more than 20,000 advisers and $2.5 trillion in client assets.The combination brings global scale in investment management, including an approximately 50 percent ownership in BlackRock, which has $1.4 trillion in assets under management. Bank of America has $589 billion in assets under management. Regional rival bank PNC has a minority stake in Black Rock, after selling a controlling interest to Merrill.The deal would make Bank of America the No. 1 underwriter of global high yield debt, the third largest underwriter of global equity and the ninth largest adviser on global mergers and acquisitions.
