(RTTNews) - Treasuries ended Monday's session with substantial gains, as investors moved out of the stock markets and into the safety of government backed bonds. News that Lehman Brothers (LEH) is filing for bankruptcy protection and that Bank of America (BAC) is buying Merrill Lynch (MER) prompted the flight to safety.The benchmark ten-year note showed notable strength throughout the session, ending the day just off of its intraday high. Subsequently, the yield on the ten-year note closed down 24.7 basis points at 3.483 percent, a five month closing low.Troubled investment bank Lehman Brothers said earlier in the day that it intends to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in order to protect its assets and maximize value. The bank took the hard step after futile efforts to find a suitable buyer.Lehman is the latest causality in the U.S. banking sector, which has been neck-deep in losses and write-downs triggered by the crisis in the subprime mortgage industry.Meanwhile, Bank of America announced this morning that it is acquiring Merrill Lynch for $50 billion in an all stock transaction. The announcement came as a surprise, as Bank of America was one of the firms expected to bail out Lehman Brothers.In an interview with RTT News, Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist for Raymond James discussed the market's sharp sell off amid the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy and Merrill Lunch buyout. Saut said that he 'never thought it would get this bad' and is predicting the financial crisis is going to go on 'a lot longer than most people think.' Meanwhile, AIG (AIG) is seeing a sharp sell off as the insurer tries to secure a cash infusion. On Sunday, Bloomberg reported that the troubled insurance giant is seeking a capital infusion from private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp;amp; Co. LP and J.C. Flowers &amp;amp; Co. in a bid to thwart credit downgrades.Governor David Paterson announced on Monday that New York State is helping bail out the troubled insurance provider. Stating at a press conference that AIG remains a 'financially sound' company, Paterson said the State of New York is allowing the nation's largest insurer to access $20 billion in assets held by its subsidiaries through a bridge loan, granting access to fast cash for daily operations.Looking ahead to Tuesday, all eyes will be on the Federal Reserve when they conclude their regularly scheduled meeting. While most economists have been expecting the Fed to leave its benchmark interest rate at 2 percent, the turmoil in the financial sector may prompt the Fed to cut rates.Meanwhile, the Department of Labor will also release its consumer price index, which is a key indicator of inflation at the consumer level. After rising by 0.8 percent in July, economists expect the consumer price index to fall by 0.1 percent in August.
