ALBANY - Gov. David Paterson and state lawmakers today are cautioning that New York may face increased deficits and higher unemployment as Wall Street's woes continue.Paterson spoke this morning on CNBC and FOXBusiness and urged the federal government to help keep solvent American International Group, the world's largest insurance group. Yesterday, New York agreed to let AIG tap $20 billion in assets to stay in business.Paterson said that unlike the bankruptcy filing Sunday of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 'this would be an effect on the whole market if AIG goes down.' There were some reports this morning that the federal government was in talks with AIG about a bailout, leading the stock market today to fluctuate but remain steady compared to yesterday's 504-point drop of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.Paterson said that New York stands to lose at least $1 billion in the Wall Street collapse and maybe 30,000 jobs.He said every 10 percent drop in Wall Street bonuses and capital gains means a hit of $750 million to the state's tax revenue.Three of the troubled firms - Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, and Merrill Lynch - had nearly 30,000 employees in New York and paid roughly 10 percent of Wall Street wages and 15 percent of all Wall Street bonuses, state officials said. 'I don't know if anyone is really understanding the ramifications of this crisis,' Paterson said on CNBC's 'Squawk Box.' 'We may not know it for weeks or months or even years.' New York leaders were still trying to figure out the exact financial impact on the state if Wall Street continues to falter. Lawmakers expected a new financial forecast in a few weeks for the remainder of the 2008-09 fiscal year, which ends March 31. 'These are very large financial institutions that are interrelated in an international market,' said state budget spokesman Matt Anderson. 'It's going to take some time to understand the true impact of what happened yesterday and on Sunday.' Paterson has hinted that he may have to call back the state Legislature to make further cuts to the state budget. Already, lawmakers and Paterson have cut about $1 billion to the current budget.Senate Minority Leader Malcolm Smith, D-Queens, urged the Senate Republican majority to hold a special session, saying that Lehman Brothers alone has over 8,000 employees in New York who contribute more than $250 million in state taxes.A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos, R-Nassau County, said they are prepared to return if the need arises. 'We'll continue to monitor the fiscal situation and we will work with Governor Paterson and the Assembly and do what is appropriate and necessary to keep the budget in balance,' said spokesman Mark Hansen.Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, D-Manhattan, said in a statement that 'I and my Assembly colleagues stand ready to assist in any way we can. I have every confidence that we will weather this situation with the same determination and resourcefulness that we have weathered adversity in the past.' E.J. McMahon, director of the Manhattan Institute's Empire Center for New York State Policy, said that lawmakers probably put in enough of a cushion in recent budget cuts to get through this year, but 'it makes next year's scenario go from bad to worse.'The state is already predicting a $24 billion gap over the next three years.McMahon recommended that Paterson and lawmakers look for savings in the most expensive parts of the budget - health care and education - something they have yet to do.'The question is will this experience be sobering enough to reduce the clamor and the sense of entitlement from all of the usual special-interest groups?' he said.
