 GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.  With the economy in turmoil and the countrys second-largest insurer faltering, John McCain was unequivocal Tuesday: We cannot have the taxpayers bail out AIG or anybody else. By Wednesday, he had changed his mind.McCain, who in recent days has slammed what he called Wall Street greed and corruption for causing the latest downward spiral of the stock market, said he had to change his position on American International Group to protect millions of Americans who could be hurt if the company were forced to seek bankruptcy protection. The government was forced to commit $85 billion, McCain said in a statement. These actions stem from failed regulation, reckless management and a casino culture on Wall Street that has crippled one of the most important companies in America. The focus of any such action should be to protect the millions of Americans who hold insurance policies, retirement plans and other accounts with AIG, he said. We must not bail out the management and speculators who created this mess. In a campaign stop in Elko, Nev., Democrat Barack Obama was also insistent that any federal action must not bail out the shareholders and management of AIG. He also said the weeks economic news was troubling, but he insisted that most people already knew the economy was in difficulty.Then Obama attacked McCain, emphasizing the themes Democrats have consistently put forward. Its been an interesting week for John McCain. Its been really interesting to watch him respond to this economic news. His first reaction to this crisis on Monday was to stand up and repeat the line hes said over and over and over again throughout this campaign  quote  the fundamentals of our economy are strong, Obama said. Now, his campaign mustve realized that probably wasnt a smart thing to say on the day of a financial meltdown, so they sent him back out a few hours later to clean up his remarks, Obama said. But it sounds like he got a little carried away because yesterday, John McCain actually said that if hes president, hell take on the  quote  old boys network in Washington. I am not making this up. This is someone whos been in Congress for 26 years, who put seven of the most powerful Washington lobbyists in charge of his campaign, and now he tells us that hes the one who will take on the old boy network. The old boy network? In the McCain campaign, thats called a staff meeting, Obama said. Throughout the week, the economy has reasserted its role as the top issue in the campaign. Both candidates have called for regulatory reform to prevent further difficulties in the capital markets. Both have upped their populist rhetoric while insisting to voters that their opponent lacks the leadership to make substantial changes.But the financial tailspin represents a special problem for McCain, the candidate of the GOP, which generally favors open, unregulated markets and generally opposes federal loan guarantees and bailouts.On Tuesday, during a spate of interviews on early morning television, McCain opposed the idea of an AIG bailout. We cannot have the taxpayers bail out AIG or anybody else, McCain said on NBCs Today show. But the campaign was forced to reconsider, said senior advisor Matt McDonald, who toured a General Motors auto plant Wednesday with McCain in Michigan. He doesnt like what happened, but his priority is working Americans who could be impacted, McDonald said of McCain. McCain visited the GM plant in Lake Orion, where 4,200 people and 600 robots produce Chevrolet Malibus and the Pontiac G6. Were not going to leave the workers here in Michigan hung out to dry while we give billions in taxpayers dollars to Wall Street, McCain said. When McCain finished speaking and was leaving, some began to chant, Obama  08! 
