NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Shares of the nation's top financial stocks fell Friday amid turmoil in the sector, as Lehman Brothers struggled to find a savior, Moody's downgraded Washington Mutual, the nation's largest thrift, to a junk rating, and American International Group, long the world's largest insurer, is losing that status as losses explode. Lehman shares fell 13%. Shares of fellow brokers Morgan Stanley (MS), Merrill Lynch (MER) and Goldman Sachs (GS) all dropped. The Amex Securities Broker/Dealer Index (XBD) fell 1.4%, and all the financial stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average -- American International Group (AIG), American Express (AXP), Citigroup (C), Bank of America (BAC) and J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM) -- declined. The Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF (XLF) shed about 1%. Lehman Brothers (LEH) is for sale as Wall Street and financial regulators rush to salvage a once-thriving brokerage firm that's threatened by a potential exodus of clients and trading partners. Lehman has been calling rival banks, brokerage firms and other potential acquirers, according to people familiar with the situation. Ladenburg Thalmann analyst Richard Bove in a research note Friday wrote that Bank of America Corp. will win the auction for Lehman, arguing there is a 'natural fit' between the two firms. Moody's downgraded WaMu (WM) shares to junk status Thursday, after the company said in a prepared statement that its capital ratios at the end of the current, third quarter should 'remain significantly above the levels for well-capitalized institutions,' adding that it's 'confident that it has sufficient liquidity and capital to support its operations while it returns to profitability.' Washington Mutual said its provision for loan losses in its third quarter are expected to be roughly $4.5 billion, down from $5.9 billion in the prior period. Press reports on Friday said J.P. Morgan was in talks to buy WaMu. Shares of insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG) slipped over 30% and were the largest percentage decliner among Dow Jones Industrial Average stocks Friday. Concerns that AIG's exposure to mortgages may lead to more losses have resulted in the company losing its place as the world's largest insurer by market value, Reuters reported. AIG shares are off nearly 80% so far this year.
