Lehman, Merrill Lynch woes take toll Wall Street got walloped again Monday as the credit crisis continued to roil the financial world. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 504.48, or 4.42 percent, to 10,917.51 following news that Lehman Brothers, the 158-year-old investment bank, had filed for bankruptcy protection and that Bank of America plans to buy Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. The blue-chip Dow index recorded its worst point drop since it plunged 684.81 on Sept. 17, 2001, the first day of trading after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Despite Monday's fallout, a couple of local money managers said they were seeing long-term positives. One said such a purging needed to occur before a recovery could take hold in the markets, and another said the deep dive may signal that the stock market has finally reached bottom. The events of the last few days are absolutely historic and unprecedented, making 'the Bear Stearns meltdown in March look like a small hot air balloon going down compared to the Hindenberg disaster,' said Dan Safranek of Safranek and Associates LLC. 'I think longer term this will be good for the markets,' he said. 'This is part of the cleansing process that needs  to take place. It may not be the end of it but this is needed for the healing and recovery process to take hold and to really move the markets forward.' Jake Dollarhide, the CEO of Longbow Asset Management Co. in Tulsa, said that for most people, the latest events are just a continuation of a 15-month nightmare. For those trying to glean something positive from Monday's news, it may signal a 'point of capitulation,' or the possibility that the stock market has finally reached a bottom, he said. 'There are not many more big institutions that are in trouble. We're running out of potential failures here, just from a numbers game,' Dollarhide added. As of Friday, Bank of America had been considering a bid for Lehman Brothers. But by Monday, the largest U.S. consumer bank had agreed to acquire Merrill Lynch for about $50 billion in stock. Lehman Brothers, which fell under the weight of $60 billion in soured real estate holdings, filed for Chapter 11 protection in the biggest corporate bankruptcy filing based on assets held. Rob Darmanin, a media relations manager for Bank of America, said the company doesn't have any answers yet regarding how Monday's announcement will affect local markets. Bank of America doesn't disclose the number of employees it has in specific markets, but Darmanin noted that it has 17 branches in Tulsa and 16 in Oklahoma City. The number of people employed by Merrill Lynch at 6100 S. Yale Ave. could not be confirmed. Overall, Bank of America employed about 207,000 people at midyear, and Merrill Lynch employed 61,900. 'Bank of America has positioned themselves to be the king of everything,' Safranek said. 'Like its name implies, it will be the Bank of America. It will be so massive, so everywhere and so involved in everything from the retail side to the Wall Street side to the mortgage side.' Safranek said he saw the buyout as positive for both entities in that it will give Bank of America a massive wealth management team and provide referral opportunities for Merrill Lynch brokers. As for what Monday's news means for individual investors, Safranek noted that many companies outside of the financial sector, including companies such as Procter &amp;amp; Gamble and McDonald's Corp., are doing well. Investors want to stay away from financial companies as much as they can, which is hard to do, considering that they make up 15 percent to 20 percent of the Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index, he added. Dollarhide said that although the U.S. financial sector is under extreme fire, many bright spots are evident. 'There are many banks and financial institutions whose stocks have done well the past few months,' he said. Investors have to pick carefully across the spectrum of choices. Fortunately, many industries are holding up well, Dollarhide said, emphasizing that diversification is a key to wise investing. Now investors will wait and see what becomes of American International Group, which is on the verge of being downgraded by credit rating agencies. AIG's stock hit a 52-week low Monday of $3.50 a share, compared with a 52-week high of $70.13 last October. Safranek said Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy announcement doesn't really affect the everyday person as it would if AIG were to file for bankruptcy. He noted that the company provides a range of insurance products and annuities. If AIG failed it would be catastrophic because of its reach and how interwoven it is with peoples' lives, he said. 'I don't think it's going to happen,' he said. 'They're working on deals; they're trying to raise cash.' Laurie Winslow 581-8466 laurie.winslow@tulsaworld.com The Associated Press contributed to this story. Advice for investors Ask the 401(k) administrator at your employer whether you have Lehman Brothers funds in your plan. If so, determine your exposure to financial and other sectors, which may guide your rebalancing, said Rick Meigs, the founder and president of the 401khelpcenter.com in Portland, Ore. See whether your 401(k) plan offers financial advice from a professional. Many do. Take advantage of that and discuss your portfolio balance, Meigs suggested. If youre broadly diversified, you may want to stay put for a while, according to John Coumarianos, a mutual fund analyst with Morningstar Inc. If you have been burned on bold sector bets on financial stocks, take this opportunity to reassess whether you are equipped to gamble like that, and if not, diversify, Coumarianos said. Be wary about seeking bargains. Picking the bottom of a market is a very dangerous game, said Max Bublitz, the chief strategist for SCM Advisors, a San Francisco investment firm. Source: Associated Press
