Lehman Brothers' slide into bankruptcy is part of the larger shakeout on Wall Street that could push up mortgage rates and fees on mutual funds, and even cause Indiana banks to call in some loans.But experts say nothing will happen soon just because the Lehman bankruptcy stunned the financial markets Monday.The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 504 points -- the largest drop in any day since terrorists seven years ago attacked the Pentagon and the World Trade Center.From the Indianapolis Bond Bank to the Indiana public employees' pension fund, economists and business analysts in Indiana shrugged off Lehman's Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. Many viewed it as necessary wreckage to clear Wall Street of sick firms and in the process get scared commercial banks to start making more loans.The bankruptcy came after federal policymakers Sunday declined to prop up the ailing New York investment bank with public money. Under Chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy law, a company can stop paying bills temporarily and stay in business under the watch of a bankruptcy court while the creditors organize a plan for the company to repay debts.Lehman, which has more than $137 billion under management, became the first major bankruptcy on Wall Street because of a financial meltdown known as the subprime debacle. It hammered the United States and Europe beginning in 2007 after loans to risky borrowers failed in massive numbers.A Wall Street power that opened in 1850, Lehman early on helped finance the rise of Indiana industrial pillars Radio Corp. of America and Chrysler Corp. And in recent years it provided financial services to a series of corporations, including Indianapolis-based health insurer WellPoint.But a late infatuation by Lehman and others with easy profits made by packaging and selling risky real estate loans have scarred neighborhoods in Indianapolis and other cities with foreclosed homes after the borrowers defaulted.In 2003, for example, Lehman worked through a loan broker in Clearwater, Fla., to provide $1.8 million for the acquisition of 22 houses in Indianapolis. Within two years, all the houses were in foreclosure amid allegations of lax loan standards.When those borrowers and others like them stopped making loan payments, Lehman wound up short on cash. The bank collapsed into Chapter 11 bankruptcy Monday, the same day that two other casualties of the financial meltdown surfaced.New York investment bank Merrill Lynch agreed to a takeover by the Bank of America. Insurance giant AIG searched for a new cash infusion among reports the U.S. government had urged investment banks Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan Chase to lead an effort to pour up to $75 billion into AIG.The actions by federal policymakers point to a change in direction. The government decided to let Lehman fall into bankruptcy instead of intervening the way it did with Bear Stearns, the first of the big Wall Street investment banks to teeter. Federal officials in March organized a bailout of Bear Stearns involving JP Morgan Chase.When policymakers did not explain why they backed Bear Stearns but not Lehman, experts took the silence to mean federal officials expect more failures and have decided it is no longer prudent to keep sick firms from going under. 'There wasn't that big of a threat immediately to the economy' posed by Lehman 'and they decided they have to close the window or that line keeps getting longer,' said economist Ken Goldstein of the Conference Board, a New York research organization funded by large corporations.Experts on the economy and the industrial Midwest said the carnage on Wall Street was not a sign of imminent economic chaos here. 'What we're in is kind of the sluggish movement toward the end of this credit crisis we've been facing stemming from the subprime lending meltdown,' said economist Jeffrey Bergstrand of the University of Notre Dame.Some financial advisers, however, still worry about the collapse of once-mighty Wall Street investment banks. 'Anytime you see a major investment bank go down like that, it's not a confidence-inspiring event,' said George Farra, co-founder and principal in Woodley Farra Manion Portfolio Management and an Indianapolis investor adviser. 'The ongoing turmoil you're seeing on Wall Street is worrisome to guys on Main Street,' Farra said. 'They're wondering: Is my bank going to call my loan? Am I going to have to post more collateral?' Officials at several Indiana banks said they have very low exposure to the problems facing New York's wobbling investment banks and have no plans to tighten lending. They said they remain heavily capitalized, with plenty of money to lend to businesses that are seeking to expand or fund daily operations. 'We want to do loans, very much so,' said Jeffrey Gatton, senior vice president at Peoples Bancorp in Auburn, Ind. 'We're out aggressively looking for more loans.' Bank stocks throughout Indiana, like much of the country, fell Monday, although not sharply -- most by under a dollar a share, which often amounted to less than 2 percentage points.Meanwhile, AIG's woes failed to trouble Indianapolis officials.AIG invests in bonds issued by the city of Indianapolis, including for the new Indianapolis International Airport terminal. Bonds are a kind of loan. But Indianapolis Bond Bank Director Kevin D. Taylor said he doesn't believe those bonds are any less secure because of AIG's financial problems. 'I think it's very safe,' Taylor said. 'If they (AIG) decide to sell our bonds if they need cash, I think there's a ready market for that.' The bonds in that case would go to a new owner, and payments would continue on the same schedule as now, Taylor said. 'We are holding up quite well' in the market turmoil, he said.The Indiana Public Employees' Retirement Fund, which has about $7 billion in assets under management, does not use Lehman Brothers as one of its money managers and does not see any particular threats from the Wall Street upheaval, said Jeff Hutson, a PERF spokesman.
