th 2008, 2:23 PM WWall Street was in panic mode Monday as the Lehman Brothers crash sparked fears of a global recession - and New York state made an 11th-hour attempt to rescue ailing insurance giant AIG. Stocks fell more than 300 points as the credit catastrophe spawned by millions of bad home mortgage loans continued to wreak havoc in the financial sector. -based AIG, a $1 trillion international firm with operations in more than 130 countries, lost 70% of its value in just three hours. Just after noon, Gov. Paterson announced a $20 billion deal in which the state would change its regulations to allow AIG to borrow against its subsidiary assets. The idea, he said, to save 8,500 AIG jobs in New York. 'They are a critically important business enterprise. They are a very rich contributor to New York's place in the global financial market,' he said. By 2 p.m., AIG's stock price had recovered about half its losses. Amid general hysteria, Mayor Bloomberg went before cameras to urge New Yorkers not to panic. 'New Yorkers have gotten through the ups and downs of Wall Street before, and we will get through this,' Bloomberg said. He said he had planned for a downturn and stressed that  continues to enjoy low unemployment, a comparatively stable real estate market and robust tourism. 'Our city remains strong,' Bloomberg said. 'We used the good times to save for the tough times.' The panic came over the fall of Lehman Brothers, the country's fourth largest investment bank. It's fall is one of the biggest failures in Wall Street history. Lehman filed for bankruptcy after frantic government maneuvers over the weekend failed to secure a rescue. Merrill Lynch, afraid it would be next, hurriedly sold itself to . The massive $50 billion merger took only 48 hours to complete, so spooked were all the players.  now rivals Citigroup Inc. as the biggest U.S. bank. Of the five giant investment banks that so recently ruled Wall Street - Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs - only the latter two are still standing. Wall Street veterans said the Street hasn't seen a more dramatic day since 1929. 'You could asked me five years ago, 'would you ever see a day like this?' and I think - not just me, but most people - would say 'that's never going to happen,'' said former Goldman Sachs chairman and New Jersey Gov. Corzine on CNBC. 
