 By BusinessWeek, Associated Press, and Action Economics staff  Call it 'Twilight of the Gods,' Wall Street style. Amid the year-plus credit crunch that has gripped global financial markets, investors have almost gotten used to dramatic weekend developments: The March rescue of crippled investment firm Bear Stearns, engineered by the Federal Reserve; and the bailout just one week ago of mortgage giants Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE). But the drama enveloping a number of Wall Street giants on Sunday was positively Wagnerian in scope, and left global markets poised for a treacherous Monday. First, market players had to weigh the latest news surrounding efforts to rescue troubled investment firm Lehman Brothers, which appear to have reached a dead end as of Sunday night with Barclays (BCS) stepping away from a potential deal to buy the firm. Then there was the news Sunday that financial giant Bank of America (BAC) was set to corral Wall Street's signature bull: venerable investment firm Merrill Lunch &amp;amp; Co. (MER). But wait, there's more. Tottering insurance giant American International Group (AIG), which like Lehman and Merrill has also seen its shares plummet in recent weeks, was expected to announce a dramatic restructuring on Monday, after a warning by Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Friday that it might downgrade the firm's debt. And with expectations of difficult trading conditions in credit markets Monday, the Federal Reserve announce temporary changes to its collateral requirements to ease lending to financial institutions Monday. And that didn't even take into account the possible impact on energy markets by the weekend landfall of Hurricane Ike on the Texas/Louisiana coast. Add it all up, and it looked like a tumultuous Monday for global financial markets. As of Sunday night, Dow Jones industrial futures were down 262 points, with gold up almost $22 at $782.90 an ounce, according to Action Economics. Asia's major markets -- Japan and Honk Kong -- typically the first responders to major weekend financial developments -- were closed for a holiday Sept. 15.  'Failure to find a buyer for Lehman has seen the U.S. dollar sold in Asia early Monday ... the absence of Hong Kong and Tokyo has added to liquidity woes,' reports Action Economics. Press reports that the Fed 'will widen the securities used in collateral, to add market liquidity, including equities in an attempt to counter the concerns over the impact of a Lehman bankruptcy. This follows increased speculation that the Fed might have cut rates this week, adding pressure to the dollar.'  There was a special derivatives trading session Sunday afternoon so that players could cut risk. There were fevered, weekend-long attempts to reach a buyer for troubled investment firm Lehman Brothers, which ultimately appear to have failed as of late Sunday night. There were indications that the 158-year-old investment bank might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection and liquidate. The company's shares have plunged 95% in the past year over worries that it does not have enough money to cover losses from its massive real estate holdings. An official of a major financial firm contacted by the Associated Press Sunday said the Treasury Dept. and the Fed were pushing Bank of America to buy Merrill Lynch. On Friday, Merrill's shares fell as investors fretted it might be the next investment bank to come under pressure from its portfolio of risky mortgage-backed securities. The Wall Street Journal reported that Merrill agreed late Sunday to sell itself to BofA for roughly $44 billion. The WSJ reported that the boards of the two companies approved the deal Sunday evening, according to people familiar with the matter. Merrill shares closed at 17.05 on Friday, after falling sharply in the wake of Lehman's looming demise. Expectations that Lehman would survive dimmed Sunday afternoon after Barclays withdrew its bid to buy the investment bank. Barclays and Bank of America were considered front-runners to buy Lehman, which is foundering under the weight of $60 billion in soured real estate holdings. The Lehman talks originally were aimed at selling the investment bank in whole or in part. The deal was tripping on the potential buyers' insistence that they receive the same kind of help that Bear Stearns got last March when JPMorgan Chase (JPM) bought the securities firm with a $29 billion Fed-backed loan. The WSJ reported Sunday that American International Group Inc. plans to disclose a restructuring by early Monday that's likely to include the disposal of major assets including its aircraft-leasing business and other holdings. AIG's chief executive, Robert Willumstad, who took the reins on the world's largest insurer in June, has indicated he was willing to shed some assets, saying about a month ago that a 'less complex AIG would be a better competitor.'  The need to restructure was likely exacerbated by a 45% drop in AIG's stock last week. The stock fell more than 30% on Friday alone, as Standard &amp;amp; Poor's warned that it could cut AIG's credit rating by one to three notches because of concerns that AIG will have difficulty accessing capital in the short term. WSJ.com reported Sunday that AIG was talking to several private equity firms about getting more capital and was hoping to raise more than $10 billion. The New York-based insurer has already raised $20 billion in fresh capital this year. Like other insurers, AIG has been hit hard by deterioration in the credit markets amid concerns that complex, structured investments it insures will increasingly default. For the three quarters ended in June, AIG lost about $25 billion in the value of credit default swaps -- or default protection for bondholders -- and about $15 billion on other investments. The insurer is considering selling or spinning off its profitable aircraft-leasing arm, International Lease Finance Corp., which posted record results in the second quarter. AIG was also considering selling other parts of its business, including assets related to property and casualty insurance, the Journal noted. Keeping financial markets running was in focus with the Fed announcing measures to add liquidity, including allowing all investment grade debt securities to be used for the TSLF schedule two auctions, which will now be held every week instead of every two weeks. Reuters also reports that the SEC is coordinating with overseas regulators to protect Lehman customers, and Fed chariman Ben Bernanke said that the Fed is in close contact with international authorities on market conditions. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said that the moves are critical for liquid, smooth functioning markets, addressing credit concerns. More liquidity measures were also announced by a consortium of banks, with a group of commercial banks including Bank of America, Barclays, Citibank (C), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), JP Morgan Chase (JPM), Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley (MS), and UBS (UBS) to maintain trading relationships and credit terms, to establish a collateralized borrowing facility and to 'facilitate an orderly resolution of OTC derivatives exposures between Lehman Brothers and its counterparties.'  The dollar sell-off stalled after word of the BofA deal for Merrill Lynch, reports Action Economics, with the new Fed liquidity measures also helping stabilize the dollar. The reported deal should go some measure to calm financial markets, says Action, though AIG And Washington Mutual (WM) remain outstanding concerns. After an astonishing weekend featuring a failed attempt to rescue Lehman Brothers, and BofA's deal to acquire Merrill, stock futures were sharply lower Sunday night
