McCain again blamed Wall Street CEOs and speculators for the troubles with AIG and other financial giants, including Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns. 'The focus of any such action should be to protect the millions of Americans who hold insurance policies, retirement plans and other accounts with AIG,' McCain said in a Wednesday statement. 'We must not bail out the management and speculators who created this mess. They had months of warnings following the Bear Stearns debacle, and they failed to act.' Obama criticized Bush administration economic policies and McCain's past support for deregulation. 'The fact that we have reached a point where the Federal Reserve felt it had to take this unprecedented step with the American Insurance Group is the final verdict on the failed economic philosophy of the last eight years. While we do not know all the details of this arrangement, the Fed must ensure that the plan protects the families that count on insurance,' he said in a statement. 'It should bolster our economy's ability to create good-paying jobs and help working Americans pay their bills and save their money. It must not bail out the shareholders or management of AIG.' Both McCain and Obama are calling for new regulations to govern Wall Street in the wake of the housing market-induced financial crash. McCain says more centralized financial rules are needed instead of those currently imposed by multiple agencies. The McCain camp also points out that Obama received substantial contributions from Fannie Mae, which along with Freddie Mac, was taken over by the federal government earlier this month. Former Fannie Mae CEO Jim Johnson served as an adviser to Obama on vice presidential candidates. Democrats, meanwhile, criticize McCain for his choice of former U.S. Sen. Phil Gramm, who held executive posts with financial giant UBS, as a lead economic adviser. They note McCain's previous support for deregulation. The AIG bailout comes in the wake of Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch, Lehman's Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the government take over of Freddie and Fannie and JP Morgan Chase Bank's acquisition of Bear Stearns. 
