TSX up 4 percent as bank shares skyrocket  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index was 4 percent higher late in the session on Tuesday, led by a surge in the heavily weighted financials after a memo to staff by Citigroup's chief executive provided reassurance on the struggling U.S. bank's prospects. At 3:13 p.m., the S&amp;P/TSX composite index  was up 302.44 points, or 4 percent, at 7,869.38. Nine of its 10 sectors were higher, led by a 11.6 percent surge in the financials index.NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc was profitable in the first two months of 2009 and is confident about its capital strength, Chief Executive Vikram Pandit said, easing concerns about the bank's survival prospects. 'I am most encouraged with the strength of our business so far in 2009,' Pandit wrote in a memo to staff on Monday. 'We are profitable through the first two months of 2009 and are having our best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007.'Flaherty gets 'pushy' over budget billOTTAWA (Reuters) - Finance Minister Jim Flaherty, in an unusually belligerent mood, blasted members of the Senate on Tuesday for not passing the government's stimulus-laden budget legislation quickly, and warned that the economy would continue to worsen in 2009. 'Canada entered the recession in a relatively strong position but we are facing a very difficult year in 2009,' he told the upper chamber's finance committee.  Deadline nears for new Canwest deal with banks  TORONTO (Reuters) - Canwest Global Communications Corp , Canada's biggest media company, faced the possibility of another debt crisis on Tuesday as the deadline loomed for it to reach a new credit deal with its lenders. Canwest said late last month that its banks had permanently cut the senior credit facility of its main Canwest Media unit to C$112 million from $300 million.  HudBay CEO Palmiere resigns amid proxy battle  TORONTO (Reuters) - HudBay Minerals , which is facing a revolt from a key stakeholder, said on Tuesday that Chief Executive Allen Palmiere had resigned, sparking a rally in the company's shares. He will be replaced on an interim basis by HudBay director and veteran mining executive Colin Benner.  Canada regulator says banks eyeing foreign assets  OTTAWA (Reuters) - The head of Canada's banking regulator said that Canadian financial institutions are looking at whether they should acquire assets in other countries hit by the global financial crisis. Julie Dickson, head of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions, told a parliamentary finance committee that Canadian banks -- considered the soundest in the world -- and insurance companies are becoming big in market terms so they are looking at acquiring assets.  Canada says GM union deal a piece of rescue puzzle  TORONTO (Reuters) - A cost-cutting deal between General Motors Canada and the Canadian Auto Workers union is just one piece of the puzzle that has to be solved before government rescue money can flow to the carmaker, Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Tuesday. Clement added he would not pass judgment on the CAW agreement and reiterated that he believes a recovery in car sales to Americans -- not Canadians -- will save North America's car industry.  Harper says to spend bulk of stimulus fast  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Canada will start pouring C$20 billion ($16 billion) of stimulus spending into the economy on April 1 as part of its plan to fight off the global financial crisis, Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in an upbeat speech on Tuesday. Harper, whose minority Conservative government plans to spend C$40 billion in stimulus over the next two fiscal years, said his officials had slashed red tape to ensure the money could be spent quickly.  Loonie firms, bonds fall as equity markets climb  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar rose against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday morning, helped in part by slightly higher oil prices and by an upturn in global equity markets after recent weakness. The rise comes after the Canadian unit fell on Monday to its lowest level versus the U.S. dollar since September 2004 as economic gloom prompted investors to sell riskier assets.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Oil fell nearly 3 percent a barrel on Tuesday as the U.S. government revised down its forecast for world oil demand in 2009. The U.S. Energy Information Administration lowered its world oil demand forecast for 2009 to 84.27 million barrels per day, down 430,000 bpd from its previous projection and the lowest level since 2005.  
