A styrofoam bull figure with a broken head sits in front of the German share price index DAX board on the trading floor of the Frankfurt stock exchange. We will know when markets have hit bottom 'when people are just totally ignoring the market,' says David Rosenberg.  Photograph by: Kai Pfaffenbach/Reuters, Kai Pfaffenbach/Reuters  With the widespread view that the S&amp;P 500s closing low of 752 on Nov. 20 represented a market bottom now shattered, experts and investors are setting their sights on new trough levels.  Based on extended downturns of the past, David Rosenberg, Bank of America Merrill Lynch chief North American economist, thinks the index could fall another 20% or more from that level to 600  and Canadian stocks could follow suit.  He had been calling for an evil-sounding bottom of 666 for the S&amp;P, but didnt think it would happen this quickly. The index hit that level during afternoon trading on Friday.  Each one of these bear markets had this common characteristic of sitting on the shelf for a period of months, lulling investors into the belief that we have seen the final low, only to then break below that threshold, Mr. Rosenberg said. This is a book and were taking it a chapter at a time.  His target of 666 for October was derived by applying a classic recession multiple trough of 12x to Merrills 2010 forward operating earnings.  However, since we are only in March, the economist thought it would be prudent to apply that multiple to an average of 2009 and 2010 earnings. He has been ahead of his peers in forecasting the global economic downturn and financial crisis and the fact that U.S. consumer spending would crumble.  Mr. Rosenberg also said there is no reason why the same analysis cannot be applied to Canada or any other market. Based on the average bear markets in the past, he said the move from that second-to-last intermediate low  the one that at the time everyone mistakenly believes is the ultimate low  to the final bear market low is 20%.  Applying that last leg decline to the TSXs closing low of 7,724 on Nov. 20 would bring Canadas benchmark index to around 6,180. However, Mr. Rosenberg said it is important to recognize that the TSX is a much more cyclical beast.  There is a tug-of-war in Canada between the implication for those sectors hooked to the global economy, which are going to be increasingly vulnerable to the decline in world economic activity, and the fact that the banks  while not necessarily pristine  they are certainly in much better shape than they are south of the border.  Meanwhile, the proportion of NYSE-listed stocks trading at or below their 200-day moving averages is a staggering 99%, according to Tobias Levkovich, chief U. S. equity strategist at Citigroup.  The proportion of the market being attributed to any future earnings growth, meanwhile, is calculated to be less than 5%.  He said this implies that hope has been lost with some wholesale dumping of shares.  Last week, the American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) survey showed that investors are more bearish than theyve been since data started to be collected in July, 1987. Of respondents surveyed, 70.3% are in the bearish camp, which some consider a sign that a meaningful rally is on the way since the AAII confidence index is often viewed as contrarian.  Indeed, previous market bottoms have coincided with spikes in bearish sentiment, said Pierre Lapointe, market strategist at National Bank Financial.  He told clients that the index is sharply above its historical average, while the last time bearish sentiment was this high was in 1990-1991.  At the time, there was a consumer-led recession, credit was hard to get and investors chose to park their money in money market mutual funds (more than 40% of total mutual funds assets), Mr. Lapointe said. Todays situation is pretty similar to what we saw back then.  Mr. Rosenberg admits that trying to pick a bottom is futile and thinks we are probably not there yet, but he does have an idea of how well know when we get there.  When we actually hit a low and nobody talks about it, thats when you know youre at the low, he said. Its when people are just totally ignoring the market. Its when ambivalence has overwhelmed long-term resolve.  
