Pick a high-yielding stock today that doesn't cut its dividend tomorrow, and you could be setting yourself up for exceptionally attractive gains as you await a recovery in the stock market. (Stop laughing. It will.)  Canadian bank dividends look hard to pass up, yielding between 6.8 per cent (in the case of Toronto-Dominion Bank) and 10.3 per cent (Bank of Montreal) when you divide the dividends by the share prices - or 8 per cent on average.   If the banks maintain their dividends, and you buy the stocks at their current prices, you'll be guaranteeing yourself an annual return of about 8 per cent, roughly the long-term average for the stock market. If and when the share prices recover, even better: You'll get capital gains on top of your steady stream of dividends.  Of course, that's a mighty big 'if' - in today's market, no dividend is presumed safe, which is why the yields on bank stocks are so high right now. The market is demanding a hefty premium for taking the risk that today's dividends won't survive.  This risk is real. In the United States, all dividends on financial stocks are presumed guilty after a rash of steep cuts. Wells Fargo &amp; Co. was the latest, cutting its quarterly dividend this week to a mere nickel, down from 34 cents (U.S.). Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. have also slashed their dividends in an attempt to shore up capital.  Perhaps the biggest risk facing dividend-paying stocks these days is that there has been a remarkable shift in attitude regarding cuts. There was a time when reducing a dividend was seen as a desperate act, committed only by the most irresponsible companies.   Now, it's seen as an act of fiscal prudence, making it a fairly easy decision for boards of directors to make. As a result of this shift, share prices commonly rise the day that a company readies the axe.  How does this relate to Canadian bank stocks? The yields are so high that the market is clearly getting nervous about dividends, and that should concern investors. After all, the market has enjoyed a remarkable track record for being right, signalling - by sending yields well into the double-digits - dividend cuts by Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo long before the cuts were made.  Still, only Bank of Montreal has a double-digit yield, suggesting that the market is not yet convinced that widespread cuts are in the works. Plus, even if all of Canada's Big Banks did cut their dividends in half, their dividend yields would merely fall back to where they were in mid-2008, before the banks suffered sharp declines in their share prices.   In other words, it's a reasonable bet that the share prices wouldn't fall if the dividends were cut, suggesting little downside risk. And if the dividends remain intact, today's yields are a gift. 
