 A handful of banking stocks, including Wells Fargo, U.S. Bancorp and Bank of America, posted double-digit gains and helped financials to close higher Monday. The KBW Bank exchange-traded fund (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which tracks the nation's largest banks, rose 5.4%. That helped lift the Financial Select Sector SPDR (XLF:XLF Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , an ETF that tracks financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, by 1.3%. Bank of America (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shares rose 19% on low volume. Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Bank of America Corp., and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM:JPM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which have received more than $100 billion in government support, are the leading arrangers of loans so far this year, according to Dealogic. However, the level of activity is down compared with the same period last year.  Shares of Capital One Financial (COF:COF Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) rose 5% Monday after it became the latest bank to slash its dividend, cutting the payout by 87% to 5 cents. With the move, Capital One is returning for now to its roots as a growth company rather than a value stock. Capital One previously paid only a small dividend before its transformation from a consumer finance company into a bank. . Aflac Inc. (AFL:AFL Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , down 14%, was the day's top decliner in the financial sector. Analysts at UBS lowered their rating on Aflac to sell from neutral. On Friday, Fitch Ratings had downgraded Aflac, also on concern about its bank investments. Shares of Citigroup, which had traded below the $1 mark for the first time ever last week, closed up 2% at $1.05. Greg Morcroft is MarketWatch's financial editor in New York.
