Financial stocks rallied more than 10% and headed for their best performance in a couple of weeks after Citigroup Inc., echoing other large U.S. banks, said it's turned a profit since the beginning of the year and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke reiterated that the government won't let a big bank fail.Citi shares led all gainers, rising about 35% following remarks from Chief Executive Vikram Pandit that the firm has been profitable in the first two months of the year and that its capital is strong. See full text of the memorandum. In addition, Bernanke stressed Tuesday that major financial institutions would not be allowed to fail given the fragile state of financial markets and the global economy. The chairman of the Federal Reserve repeated in a speech in Washington that a sustainable economic recovery will 'remain out of reach' until the banking sector is stabilized. A recovery later this year is not out of the question, according to Bernanke. Read more.U.S. bank stocks have a chance at recovering from their recent collapse compared with how technology issues fared in the wake of the dot-com bust, some analysts said Tuesday.'There is probably more opportunity to get stabilization in financials in the near term, as in a year from now they will have bounced off more from the bottom than have technology shares -- so many of them went out of business,' said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies &amp; Co. See full story.Citi follows Bank of America Corp. and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. in commenting on being profitable for the year to date. Bank of America shares rose 27% and J.P. Morgan shares rose 20%. The gains lifted the KBW Bank exchange-traded fund 9%, and boosted the Financial Select Sector SPDR , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500 Index , by almost 7%. Direxion Bull 3x Shares , an exchange-traded fund designed to provide 300% leverage to financial stocks on a daily basis, was on track for its biggest one-day gain on Tuesday as bank stocks rocketed higher.The ETF, which launched in November 2008, rose more than 33% in midday trading. Even with Tuesday's financials rally, the leveraged bullish ETF is down 85% for the year to date, according to FactSet Research.Financial stocks, and banks in particular, have been under pressure in recent weeks from short-sellers, who borrow shares and sell them, hoping to buy back the shares and return them later while pocketing the difference as a profit. When shares they have borrowed begin to rise, the short-sellers often jump back in as buyers, adding to a stock's gains.Elsewhere in the sector, an analyst's upgrade of credit-card stocks Capital One Financial Corp. and Discover Financial Services helped lift the shares on Tuesday as the broader financial sector bounced off the mat.Stifel Nicolaus analyst Chris Brendler wrote in a note that even though the credit-card companies will feel the pain of a severe recession, they should be able to weather the storm. Brendler also pointed to compelling valuations -- the stocks are trading near fresh lows in the wake of another disappointing jobs report. Last week, the Labor Department reported the U.S. economy lost 651,000 jobs in February, putting the unemployment rate above 8%. See full story.
