Corporate dividends were once sacred, but no longer. As the economy declines, so have the regular cash payouts that both companies and stockholders considered untouchable. Some of the biggest names in U.S. business have cut or eliminated dividends -- choosing not to share the wealth either because they need the money now or think they will later.Last year was the worst ever for dividend reductions among Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock-index companies. In the final three months of 2008 alone, $15.9 billion worth of S&amp;P 500 dividend payouts were whisked off the table. That quarterly record has already been eclipsed in the first two months of 2009 with more than $30 billion in dividends wiped out, most notably General Electric Co.'s move in late February to slash its quarterly distribution by more than two-thirds.For investors who depend on dividend income, or who expected the cash would cushion the bear-market's blows, the setback has been sobering. The cuts have been particularly unkind to shareholders of dividend-focused mutual-funds and exchange-traded funds who've suffered losses in both take-home yield and investment returns.'Dividend investors have now joined the rest of investors in looking for safer harbors, and there are not many out there,' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's Inc. Big payers cutbackThe comedown is especially hard for dividend cutters that not long ago were considered highly predictable payers -- so-called dividend aristocrats -- such as Bank of America Corp. , Pfizer Inc. and GE. Dividend investing itself also has been tarnished. Dividend growers historically have been defensive stalwarts, outperforming less-generous corporate rivals and the U.S. market as a whole through good times and bad, and with less risk. S&amp;P 500 companies that raised dividends gained 8.8% on average annually between January 1972 and November 2008, according to Ned Davis Research Inc. Index members that cut dividends or paid no dividends finished the period with essentially flat returns.Still, shareholders who temper their expectations can find cash-rich companies that are increasing dividends. The battered financial-services sector is being necessarily frugal, but some commodity-related and consumer-staples companies have breathing room. Recently, for example, agricultural bellwethers Archer-Daniels Midland Co. and Monsanto Co. , along with soft-drink giant Coca-Cola Co. , retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and paper-goods supplier Kimberly-Clark Corp. boosted payouts.'Dividends are an endangered species, but nowhere near extinct,' Silverblatt said. 'You've got to do a lot more homework. Pick the company first, the dividend second. A high yield won't do you any good if the company can't sustain it.'Against this grim backdrop, managers of funds that focus on dividend-payers are facing the most challenging conditions many have ever experienced.'Clearly this environment has created some stress,' said Don Taylor, lead manager of Franklin Rising Dividends Fund . He screens for companies that have hiked dividends in at least eight of the last 10 years, and then chooses only those whose dividends have doubled over a decade.'A lot of companies that previously met the rising-dividend screen no longer do,' he added.Some managers are tightening the screws. Judith Saryan, who oversees the Eaton Vance Dividend Builder and Dividend Income funds, is analyzing corporate financials for signs of cash shortfalls.'You want to avoid companies paying the highest yield because they're the ones that are most at risk,' she said. 'Even a very good company that needs to access the credit market might raise a red flag.'Financial-services companies comprise the bulk of distressed dividend payers, and these high-yielding stocks often show up in the equity-income fund category, which has been broadsided as a result.Roam the market for payers'Equity-income is under a cloud because of the feeling that these companies are not secure, their finances are eroding, and they probably would cut the dividend,' said Mark Salzinger, editor of the No-Load Fund Investor newsletter.Salzinger recommends vehicles that roam the broad market for dividend growers, such as the mostly large-cap Vanguard Dividend Growth Fund . An ETF sibling, Vanguard Dividend Appreciation , also highlights dividend standouts but sports a much different portfolio.Other proven dividend-oriented stock funds, in addition to the Franklin and Eaton Vance portfolios, include T. Rowe Price Dividend Growth Fund and Alpine Dynamic Dividend Fund . Choices among ETFs include: PowerShares Dividend Achievers , WisdomTree Large Cap Dividend , SPDR S&amp;P Dividend , and the largest of the group, iShares Dow Jones Select Dividend Index .In the search for dividends, remember that high quality, not high yield, counts most in this market.'You really need companies that have the most quality balance sheets you can possibly find,' Salzinger said. 'A good dividend-growth fund would invest across industries in stocks that yield between 1% and 3% and have the capacity to increase those dividends over time.' 
