By Chuck Mikolajczak   NEW YORK, March 17 (Reuters) - With the ink barely dry on Meredith Whitney's departure papers, broker Oppenheimer &amp; Co took an axe to her widely-watched and consistently dour bank ratings on Tuesday, painting a rosier future for battered banks.   Oppenheimer's managing director and senior research analyst, Chris Kotowski, said perennial Whitney's punching bag Citigroup Inc is now worthy of a 'perform' rating, saying a credit market recovery will benefit its investment banking operations and put it ahead of commercial banking rivals.   Whitney left Oppenheimer in February with an underperform rating on Citi, having famously predicting the downfall of its stock months ahead of the banks' desperate need for government cash to keep it alive.   In late October 2007, when the global credit crisis was in its early stages, Whitney said Citigroup would need to reduce its dividend and raise at least $30 billion of capital. Within three months, both predictions came true.   The re-initiation of analysts' coverage in the banking sector by Kotowski marks his return to the firm after leaving his position as senior analyst in 1996.   The firm noted his return was not an intentional effort to depart from former analyst Whitney's tone on the sector.   'The firm lets each individual analyst come to their own conclusion,' said John Parks, director of equity research at Oppenheimer in New York.   'Where Meredith had been quite focused and correctly so on the negative, Chris coming in quite a bit later is looking at the world in a different way and clearly sees that there are signs of light.'   Kotowski admits that with many of the commercial bank stocks trading at $2 to $5 a share, 'they are trading more like options than stocks and seem more likely to outperform or underperform.'   However, he said the 'perform' rating is based on the belief that the commercial banking industry is facing a long road before the recovery can take root on a fundamental basis and fear in the market that the companies will fail outright.   Despite the hurdles that Kotowski felt commercial banks face, he believed a seizure or collapse was viewed by regulators as undesirable and a last possible resort.   He said the reason Citi was not shut down by regulators as not out of 'timidity' or 'indecisiveness' but because it was not the most cost-effective manner to handle the situation on the taxpayers' behalf.   In addition to rating Citigroup at a 'perform' versus the 'underperform' held by Whitney, Kotowski rated Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley with an 'outperform,' an upgrade from the previously-held 'perform' ratings by Whitney.   A call to Chris Kotowski wasn't immediately returned for comment.   (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak) Keywords: holdUSA STOCKS/OPPENHEIMER   (Charles.mikolajczak@thomsonreuters.com; +1 646 223 5234; Reuters Messaging:rm://Charles.mikolajczak.reuters.com@reuters.net) 
