  LATE BUYERS FUEL SURGE  The Dow  loading...    [.DJIA Loading...   ()  ] surged on Tuesday after an unexpected leap in housing starts pushed Home Depot and other retailers higher while bullish comments from a broker on Cisco Systems helped technology shares rebound.  Also the rally was helped along by comments made by top White House economic advisor Larry Summers on CNBCs Power Lunch. In an exclusive interview Summers dismissed the notion of tax hikes for the immediate time being.  He said, There are no, no tax increases this year, there are no no tax increases next year, in fact there are substantial tax cuts to the people who are most likely to spend and push the economy forward. (Click here to see CNBC's Steve Liesman's entire interview with Larry Summers)  Strategy Session with the Fast Money Traders  I dont think Larry Summers comment had a lot to do with the rally, says Pete Najarian. Its much more about that momentum in the market.  I think the S&amp;P  loading...    [.SPX Loading...   ()  ] is going to 900, says Guy Adami and it could happen by the end of the week.  Once we took out the November lows and held above 740 it said to me the rally is for real, says Joe Terranova.  Not to crash your party but sell this rip, counsels Jeff Macke.  --------------------  FINANCIAL LAND OF CONFUSION  As banks continue rebound, comments from analysts leave many investors lost in a land of confusion. Just take a look.  Stock Move Analyst Firm  JPMorgan Upgrade to BuyBank of America/Merrill  Morgan Stanley Downgrade to UnderperformBank of America /Merrill  Morgan Stanley May See More UpsideKBW  Morgan Stanley Estimates LoweredUBS  Goldman Sachs Downgrade to Market PerformKBW  Goldman Sachs Estimates RaisedUBS  And heres the kicker. The replacement at Oppenheimer for the legendary Meredith Whitney started coverage on the financials today. He rates Goldman  loading...    [GS Loading...   ()  ] and Morgan Stanley  loading...    [MS Loading...   ()  ] at 'Outperform' and Bank of America  loading...    [BAC Loading...   ()  ], Citi  loading...    [C Loading...   ()  ] and JPMorgan Chase  loading...    [JPM Loading...   ()  ] at 'Perform'.  Its hard for me to reconcile that Oppenheimer is now much more positive on Goldman and Morgan just because Meredith Whitney left, muses Guy Adami. If youre looking at Goldman, I think its a little rich at these levels, he adds.  Goldman was a $74 stock a little over a week ago and now its trading over $100, reminds Pete Najarian. In my book its a hold, not a buy.  Goldman and Morgan and great places to trade, adds Jeff Macke. But theyre purely trading vehicles.  --------------------  TOPPING THE TAPE: TECH SNAPS BACK  The Nasdaq  loading...    [.NCOMP Loading...   ()  ] reversed a 1.9 percent slide on Monday after Goldman said investors should buy Cisco Systems on the view a new server will increase the company's profits.  Shares of Apple  loading...    [AAPL Loading...   ()  ] also gained after the firm unveiled an iPhone software upgrade with new features ranging from copy-and-paste and message notifications to picture messaging, as the company pursued further growth in a hotly contested cellphone market.  In the space, Im keeping an eye on Oracle  loading...    [ORCL Loading...   ()  ], says Guy Adami. Valuations look interesting.  Options action in the SMH  loading...    [SMH Loading...   ()  ] suggests the Street is getting more encouraged by what theyre seeing in the chip sector, reveals Pete Najarian.  --------------------  OIL NEARS $50  U.S. crude oil futures  loading...    [US@CL.1 Loading...   ()  ] settled at their highest level since December, supported by a surge in heating oil and gasoline futures and on options expiration play for the front-month April crude contract.  Oil went higher on bad news Tuesday and that suggests to me it has more room to run, says Guy Adami.  Action in nat gas suggests to me that it could have bottomed, adds Joe Terranova.  And in commodities, Id keep an eye on the steel names, counsels Pete Najarian. Nucor  loading...    [NUE Loading...   ()  ] was absolutely slammed on Tuesday but maybe that was the whoosh we needed. In other words, maybe its time to start looking at these names.  --------------------  TOPPING THE TAPE: HOUSING &amp; THE CONSUMER  Shares of Home Depot  loading...    [HD Loading...   ()  ] jumped after data showed housing starts jumped 22.2 percent in February, the biggest percentage rise since January 1990, and also the first increase since last April  I still think Home Depot is an interesting looking stock, muses Guy Adami. At current valuations its interesting.  Building permits arent up enough for me to get excited about housing, counters Joe Terranova.  
