Stocks Rise, Cap Strong Week  The market closed higher after fighting off midday weakness. The Nasdaq rose 0.4% while the NYSE composite, S&amp;P 500 and Dow were up 0.8%. Indexes closed near session highs to cap a week of big gains. Volume fell. Health care groups were among the day's best. Chemicals, regional bank and media stocks fell. More  G-20 Nations Bicker Over Crisis  German Chancellor Angela Merkel reiterated her opposition to a new economic stimulus, the latest European rebuff to Pres. Obama's call for more global action. But Japan confirmed that it was working on a 3rd package, while China's premier hinted that his country could go beyond the current $585 bil stimulus. G-20 finance chiefs began a 2-day meeting ahead of an April 2 summit.  Trade Gap Falls To Six-Year Low  The U.S. trade deficit fell 9.7% to $36 bil in Jan., the lowest since Oct. '02. But that decline reflected the severe recession at home and abroad. Exports have fallen for 6 straight months, down 5.7% vs. Dec. and 16.4% vs. a year earlier. But imports tumbled 6.7% vs. Dec. and 22.8% vs. Jan. '08, with weak demand for oil, autos and other foreign goods.   Swiss Open Books On Tax Cheats  Under mounting U.S. pressure, Switzerland broke with its long tradition of concealing foreigners' bank accounts, saying it'll cooperate with tax evasion probes if nations give compelling evidence. The U.S. has demanded UBS (UBS) open records on 50,000 accounts, alleging the Swiss giant helped rich U.S. clients conceal assets. Two other European tax-haven states pledged like moves Thu.  Panel Mulls Auto Bankruptcy  The Obama administration's auto task force hired a bankruptcy lawyer to advise it on its options. GM (GM) and Ford (F) reported steep Feb. sales declines in Europe, Brazil and Canada. U.S. automakers can no longer count on strong int'l sales to ease domestic woes. Also, Ford joined Chrysler in saying that it won't adopt GM's labor deal with Canadian autoworkers, citing costs.   Enemy Combatant Rule Ditched  Pres. Obama won't use the term 'enemy combatant' to justify holding prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, abandoning one of Pres. Bush's key phrases in the war on terror. The new administration, which is working to close the Gitmo prison, said just those who gave 'substantial' support to al-Qaida or the Taliban would be deemed detainable.  China 'Worried' About Treasuries  PM Wen Jiabao gave a not-so-subtle warning to Washington: Don't devalue the dollar by reckless spending, which would hurt the value of China's $1 tril or so in Treasuries. If Beijing stops buying U.S. debt as the gov't finances record deficits, interest rates could soar, roiling global fin'l markets. The 10-year T-yield rose 2 ticks to 2.90%.  Missiles Destroy Taliban Facility  Militants recovered 22 bodies, including foreign fighters, from a Taliban training compound destroyed by suspected U.S. missiles in NW Pakistan, intel officials said. The missile strikes were the latest in a series just south of the Afghan border that U.S. officials say have killed scores of militants, including key al-Qaida members.  Consumer Sentiment Edges Up  The Univ. of Mich. gauge rose to 56.6 in March from 56.3 in Feb., defying views for a dip. It's still near Nov.'s longtime low of 55.3. Consumer attitudes about current conditions fell for a 3rd month but were more upbeat about the future. The already-reported IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index also showed a modest decline in pessimism.  Merrill Bonus Ruling Out Soon  A N.Y. judge said he would decide within a week if Bank of America (BAC) has to turn over a list of bonuses for the 200 highest-paid Merrill Lynch employees. The judge didn't indicate how he would rule, but in a hearing he questioned BofA's claim that salaries are trade secrets. N.Y. Att'y Gen. Andrew Cuomo has subpoenaed the data in his probe of BofA's Merrill purchase. BofA shares fell 1.5%.
