Some battered bank stocks rebounded and energy names benefited from rising oil prices, but the broader U.S. stock market couldn't establish any momentum as anxiety about the global economic outlook lingered. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which slid 6.2% last week, was up about 4 points at 6,631. International Business Machines, the Dow's most heavily weighted component, dipped 1.7%. The Dow was also weighed down by a 10% drop in component Merck, which offered to acquire Schering-Plough in a cash-and-stock deal valued at $41.1 billion. Schering-Plough jumped 15%. The financial sector pushed higher and Bank of America gained nearly 16% after CEO Ken Lewis said the company, which has seen its shares drop 90% in the last three months, shouldn't need to raise more equity. Wells Fargo was up 20% and US Bancorp rose 14%. Many traders and analysts expect a grinding week of trading after last week's steep losses, which left major indexes at fresh 12-year lows. The market could become volatile if averages reach important thresholds or if indicators break significantly below their recent lows. 'The technicals are driving things right now because there's no visibility,' regarding the value of banks' soured credit bets and the depth of the contraction in overall corporate profits, said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. Observers continued to express concern about the global economic outlook. Warren Buffett said in an interview on CNBC television prior to the opening bell that the economy has 'fallen off a cliff.' The World Bank said the global economy is likely to shrink for the first time since World War II. The S&amp;P 500 was up 0.4% as energy stocks rallied on a jump in crude-oil prices. ConocoPhillips shares rose more than 3% and Marathon Oil rose 2.8%. OPEC's next meeting is scheduled for March 15 in Vienna, but early signs are increasingly pointing toward a deeper cut in the cartel's output. The group's secretary general told reporters at an energy conference in Qatar that OPEC will cut its 2009 oil-demand forecast this week. And Iraq's oil minister called for higher oil prices, saying that the current level is not 'profitable and fair' for producing countries, echoing similar remarks recently by Venezuela. Nearby crude futures for April delivery were recently up more than $2, trading at $47.55 a barrel. Contracts for May delivery were not rallying as strongly, up about 86 cents at $48.58 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Floor trader Jeff Grossman, of BRG Brokerage, said that narrowing of spreads along the futures curve suggests that the market may be bracing for a sustained run higher, perhaps to $60 in the next few months. 'We're not overly glutted with inventories at this point,' said Mr. Grossman. 'What you're seeing here is that we're getting back more to pure supply and demand moving this market.' While fuel demand is expected to remain weak due to the global economic slowdown, a cutback in supply either engineered by OPEC or undertaken by non-members of the cartel burned by oil's plunge from records around $145 last year could support crude in the months ahead. Traders have increasingly been betting on such a scenario. Technology stocks fell. The Nasdaq Composite Index was off 0.4%, hurt by a 3.5% decline in Google. The search giant recently traded below $298, putting it within reach of posting its first close below $300 since Jan. 20. Darren Chervitz, research director at the Internet-focused firm Jacob Asset Management, said that executives and staff there have been conducting almost daily meetings about their exposure to Google, which is down about 60% from its record set in the fall of 2007 shortly after the broader market peaked. 'It's worrisome,' said Mr. Chervitz. 'I mean, it's hard not to be in it, since we're an Internet fund and it's the most important name in the industry. But it's trading at 15 times earnings, which isn't cheap at the moment when you look at the rest of the market.' Gold futures fell to about $925 per ounce. The dollar was stronger. Treasury prices fell. 
