Stocks dealing, but Wall Street not feeling it. Mega Mergers can't lift street. Updated from 2:00 p.m. EDT  More on MRK  Market Activity  Capital One Financial Corporation  COF  Merck &amp; Company Incorporated  MRK  Schering-Plough Corporation  SGP  Stocks in New York were slumping mid afternoon Monday, despite news on a trio of mega mergers.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently falling 48 points to 6579, and the S&amp;P 500 slunk back 4 points to 680. The Nasdaq was lower by 18 points at 1276.  Industrials and financials were outperforming, though, with Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) leading the Dow with an 18% increase, and the KBW Banking Index rising 6%.  Merck(MRK Quote - Cramer on MRK - Stock Picks) was the weakest Dow component, losing 11%, after proposing a $41 billion cash-and-stock deal, offering Schering Plough(SGP Quote - Cramer on SGP - Stock Picks) shareholders 0.5767 of a Merck share and $10.50 in cash for each of their shares. Schering's have surged 16% higher.  Also, the Wall Street Journalreported that the board of Genentech(DNA Quote - Cramer on DNA - Stock Picks) is near a deal to sell the biotech staple to Swiss pharma company Roche for $95 per share, citing people familiar with the matter.  And in yet another a merger update, Dow Chemical(DOW Quote - Cramer on DOW - Stock Picks) and Rohm &amp; Haas(ROH Quote - Cramer on ROH - Stock Picks) have reportedly reached a settlement for the $15 billion merger between the two firms, agreeing to close a deal no later than April 1, according to CNBC.  Meanwhile, Washington continues to fixate investors, says Paul Nolte, Director of Investments at Hinsdale Associates. 'The daily news briefing, the comments about the horrendous economy, floating the possibility of a new stimulus package (just after the second was signed) and little resolution to the banking crisis have kept investors from stepping into stocks with any confidence. In fact, many are stepping away and vowing to never return,' he writes.  
