By Anusha Shrivastava and   Romy Varghese  Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES   Pfizer's offering is rated triple-A by Standard &amp; Poor's and two notches lower by Moody's Investors Service.  Investors, who have been clamoring for investment-grade bonds this year from companies with little debt and those that can best weather economic downturns, swooped in for the Pfizer offering. This helped narrow risk premiums on the bulk of the bonds from original expectations.  Pfizer's deal is the latest in the sector to tap the U.S. high-grade market for funds amid a flurry of merger and acquisition activity in the pharmaceutical industry. Last month,  (DNA). Pfizer's offering is the second-largest U.S.-dollar denominated deal, according to data firm Dealogic. 'Investors are looking for investment-grade names even though we have had good supply,' said Daniel Sheppard  With banks' lending capabilities limited, many companies are choosing to tap hungry bond investors for funds to refinance portions of temporary financing, known as bridge facilities, sooner rather than later. Pfizer completed syndication of its bridge loan only at the end of last week. In other cases, companies are skipping the bridge loan altogether. Roche, for example, opted to pre-fund its acquisition in the bond market first before securing financing in the loan market.  And there's more big pharma debt on tap.  (MRK) plans to sell bonds to partly refinance its $8.5 billion  The consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry is being driven by a wave of expirations of patents for blockbuster drugs, which are exposing them to competition from cheaper generic versions. At the same time, companies have hit numerous setbacks in recent years finding successful new drugs to replace the lost revenue.  The rationale behind the combinations is to generate big cost savings, beef up pipelines of experimental drugs, and to diversify into areas outside of traditional prescription drugs, such as consumer health products and biotechnology-style drugs. What remains an open question is whether the latest round of consolidation will avoid the same fate of some industry mega-mergers earlier in this decade, which disrupted research efforts and hurt stock price performance.  Pfizer's shares were recently down four cents  Pfizer's two-year, floating-rate $1.25 billion  The $3.5 billion  The $3 billion  The $3.25 billion  The $2.5 billion  Joint leads on the deal were Citigroup (C), Barclays (BCS), Bank of America/ Merrill Lynch (BAC), Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM).  Pfizer spokeswoman   Joan Campion  Pfizer last sold a $1.45 billion  -By Anusha Shrivastava and   Romy Varghese
