SAO PAULO -(Dow Jones)- The Brazilian subsidiary of Fiat SpA (F.MI) saw its third straight sales increase in February as tax breaks keep bringing consumers to new car lots, a person familiar with the company said Tuesday.  Fiat is one of Brazil's top two car makers and sold 44,980 vehicles in February, according to in-house preliminary numbers. The Italian automaker sold 43,312 cars and trucks in January.  Fiat said it owes the latest round of car sales to the temporary reduction of the IPI industrial production tax. Car companies were already reducing sticker prices to cut back on the number of unsold vehicles sitting on their lots. Those measures, coupled with the government tax break, has relaxed new car prices by between 10% to 15%, according to Fiat.  General Motors (GM) revised its preliminary numbers higher as well Tuesday. Last week, the company said it sold slightly over 30,000 vehicles with just two days left in the month.  A person with the company said GM sold around 35,700 vehicles in February, compared with 32,840 in January.  The numbers are preliminary. Official sales data for the sector is scheduled to be released by the National Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association, or Anfavea, in the late-afternoon hours on Monday in Sao Paulo.  The recent sales trend might end this month. Industry executives are concerned that when the IPI tax returns on April 1, car companies will either have to pay that tax themselves, or transfer it to consumers. Taking on the IPI will cut into revenue at a time when car sales are already in decline in comparison to last year. Transferring the burden to consumers could easily translate into lower sales starting as early as April.  Brazil's car sales began declining in November when it became apparent that the U.S. banking crisis would have an impact on local credit markets. Banks reacted by raising rates and shortening payment terms and downpayment requirements on new vehicles. Brazilians reacted by staying home.  In November, automakers sold around 8,318 cars and trucks daily, declining from over 11,500 in September and August, when general consensus was that the busted housing bubble would not claim any banks. It did, of course, with Bear Stearns folding, followed by Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch, which was acquired in part by Bank of America.  The news sent ripples to Brazil's all-important automotive market and sales collapsed. Car companies put workers on paid leave to reduce production.  A Fiat spokesman said that the company now had its stocks in balance, adding that the market as a whole is no longer oversupplied.  As a result, Volkswagen union leaders in Sao Paulo said Tuesday that it was putting 7,000 workers on overtime to catch up with demand.  Five executives from U.S. and European automakers told Estado de Sao Paulo newspaper in Geneva that Brazil played an import role in the sector's growth. 'Our sales in Brazil are fundamental for our global balance sheet,' Lorenzo Sistino, chief executive of Fiat SpA told Estado.   -By   Kenneth Rapoza  , Dow Jones Newswires, 5511-2847-4541, kenneth.rapoza@ dowjones.com   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-03-091308ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
