  NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Citigroup Inc. rallied 20% ahead of the opening bell Tuesday, scoring gains as Chief Executive Vikram Pandit said the hard-hit provider of financial services firm was profitable during the first two months of the year and called its capital position 'strong.' The company (C:CNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) is the latest of several big U.S. banks, after blue chips J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM:JPMNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) and Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BACNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , to tout its profitability for the year to date. Citigroup's shares, changing hands at $1.25 in pre-open action, have been under constant pressure over the last week, trading right around the $1 mark most of time after having fallen under $1 for the first time ever last week. Acknowledging concern about the share price, Pandit said in a memo to employees: 'Our stock price is not an indication of our financial strength.'  Pandit also said Citigroup's enjoying the best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007. 'Our pro forma tangible common book value would be $3.82 a share assuming maximum preferred conversion ... and the pending conversion is creating a large technical short in our stock that should be lifted once the conversion is completed,' Pandit wrote. In February, the bank unveiled a plan with the U.S. government and select institutional holders to convert some of its preferred shares into common stock, boosting the government's direct ownership in what was once the largest U.S. bank to 36%.  The preferred exchange announced nearly two weeks ago is expected to make Citigroup the strongest-capitalized large U.S. bank as measured by tangible common equity and Tier 1 ratios, Pandit added. 'In January and February alone, our revenues excluding externally disclosed marks, were $19 billion. During 2008, our full quarterly average for these revenues as adjusted was $21 billion,' Pandit said in the memo, which was also filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 'That said, we are still one month away from the end of the quarter, and market volatility could alter results.' Pandit also reassured investors that management believes Citigroup earn enough taxable income in coming years to realize most of its deferred tax assists, currently valued at about $44 billion. The deferred tax assets are benefits for which Citigroup has become eligible as a result of posting huge losses over the last several quarters. To the extent that it earns a certain amount of taxable income, the company will be able to avid taxes in the future. The deferred tax assets are important, because Citigroup counts them toward its tangible common equity -- an important measure of a company's financial health. Citigroup said its deferred tax assets have carryforward periods ranging from 10 years to as many as 20 years. 'We believe that, even under stressed scenarios, our current forecasts of taxable income during these carryforward periods are sufficient to fully realize the value of our deferred tax assets,' Citi said in a prepared statement. Citigroup also said that it has reduced the risk assets in securities and banking to $112 billion at the end of 2008 from $226 billion in the year-ago period. Moreover, it said it has $30 billion in loan-loss reserves, or 4.3% of loans at the end of 2008. In a related development, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday that Citigroup executives and federal officials are in talks to make sure that there is a contingency plan in place should conditions take another turn for the worse at the bank. According to the report, Citigroup hasn't seen any signs that customers and trading partners are leaving the bank, and the Journal said that government officials say the planning should be seen as a normal measure taken during a financial crisis. . Greg Morcroft is MarketWatch's financial editor in New York. E-mail Print   if(gomez != undefined) { gomez.startInterval('Community Module Load'); } if(gomez != undefined) { gomez.endInterval('Community Module Load'); } 
