The catalyst for the bounce was improving profitability of the banks. Citigroup (NYSE: C) stated they had made money since January, Wells Fargo (NYSE: WFC) beat earnings estimate and stated things were getting better and Bank of America (NYSE: BAC) stated the same general comments. Thus, the push higher on the perception banks are going to be okay. If I could chose a catalyst to lead the rally from the recent correction it would be improvement in the financial sector. This would go a long way to the restoration of confidence in the market and money would flow back into stocks.  It is too soon to tell the complete outcome of the comments made by the various financial institutions , but the fact they are willing to say them is improvement alone. Fed Chairman Bernanke spoke as well eluding to potential revisions in the mark-to-market rules on balance sheets. Those would be welcome changes for the financial stocks as well.  Congressman Barney Frank and friends are interested in the SEC reinstating the down-tick rule for short selling of stocks. Plenty of arguments on both sides of the rule, but there is indication it is favored to restore some confidence in the trading systems.  I would say this is all a step in the right direction for the broad markets. The challenge still remains the economy and hope for improvement looking forward. Most analyst have revised estimates into 2010 versus the second half of 2009. This will be something to watch in the coming month. The first quarter is coming to a close and the data will tell us if there were any improvements over fourth quarter.  The other sector to watch is technology. This remains on my watch list as one of the leading sector coming out of this correction. Yesterday showed the underlying strength in the sector gaining more than 7% overall. iShares Technology ETF (NYSE: IYW) is the way to track the index. Semiconductors have been the leading component and gained more than 8% on the day. iShares Semiconductor ETF (NYSE: IGW) is the way to track the index. SPDR KBW Bank ETF (NYSE: KBE) is the way to track the banks if you want to follow the progress of yesterday's news. It is important to remind ourselves the trend for this sector and broad market is down. One day rallies are not trend reversals. Be patient and have a strategy for approaching how you play this market or the financial sector.  There is plenty to consider as this market deals with the multiple issues at hand. Stay focused on your goals.
