U.S. stock futures pointed to sharp opening losses as American International Group and HSBC Holdings announced plans to raise roughly $50 billion in capital and as Warren Buffett said the economy would be in 'shambles' this year.  HSBC Holdings (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) led a sell-off in London as the banking giant said it would raise about $18 billion by selling discounted shares, cut its dividend and reported an annual profit drop of 70%. Ahead of the HSBC results, stocks in Asia also dropped sharply. The Hungarian forint and the Polish zloty dropped after Germany and other Eastern European countries opposed an Eastern Europe-wide bailout package over the weekend.  Analysts at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods on Monday upgraded shares of J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM:JPM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) to outperform, saying the stock is likely to outperform its peers. 'We believe its (J.P. Morgan's stock) valuation and earnings may pull away from its peers given its improving and leading franchise coupled with its relative balance sheet strength and more manageable capital needs,' the analysts said.  The U.S. government's taking new steps to assist insurance and financial-services giant American International Group (AIG:AIG Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) aimed at stabilizing the company in a way to protect taxpayers, the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve Board announced. Most notably, a new equity capital facility is being established to allow AIG to draw down as much as $30 billion as needed over time in exchange for non-cumulative preferred stock to the Treasury. New York-based AIG, in which Washington acquired a majority equity stake last year, 'continues to face significant challenges, driven by the rapid deterioration in certain financial markets in the last two months of the year and continued turbulence in the markets generally,' the government said. AIG also said its fourth-quarter loss widened to $61.66 billion, or $22.95 a share, from the $5.29 billion loss in the year-earlier period. PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC:PNC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) said it is cutting the quarterly dividend on its common shares to 10 cents from 66 cents. 'While our overall capital and liquidity positions are strong, extreme market deterioration and the changing regulatory environment drove this difficult but prudent decision,' said Chief Executive James Rohr. PNC said it is optimistic about the long-term benefits of the acquisition of National City, and that it will be accretive to 2009 earnings. PNC, which is holding a conference call Monday morning, said it has no current plans to issue additional common equity. Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK:CHK Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) said it'll curtail about 240 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day, or about 7% of its gross natural gas and oil production due to low wellhead prices. U.S. households socked away most of the extra income they got in January from annual cost-of-living raises, boosting the personal savings rate to a 15-year high, the Commerce Department said Monday. Disposable real incomes rose in January at the fastest pace since May as annual pay raises and cost-of-living increases took effect, the Commerce Department said. Real disposable incomes (adjusted for inflation and after taxes) increased 1.5%, despite the third straight decline in income from wages and salaries. Meanwhile, real (inflation-adjusted) consumer spending increased 0.4% in January, the largest increase since November 2007 and only the second increase in the past eight months. Before the Bell is a daily e-mailed newsletter.  
