NEW YORK (MarketWatch) - U.S. financial stocks posted their biggest rally in a month and a half, as Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke reiterated that the government won't let a big bank fail, and Citigroup, echoing other large U.S. banks, said it's turned a profit since the beginning of the year. The market also drew spark from a key lawmaker on Tuesday said he expects the Securities and Exchange Commission to reinstate the 'up-tick' rule, a regulation removed last year that allowed short sales only if a preceding trade boosted a company's stock price. Citi shares led all gainers, rising about 38% following remarks from Chief Executive Vikram Pandit that the firm has been profitable in the first two months of the year and that its capital is strong.  In addition, Bernanke stressed Tuesday that major financial institutions would not be allowed to fail given the fragile state of financial markets and the global economy. The chairman of the Federal Reserve repeated in a speech in Washington that a sustainable economic recovery will 'remain out of reach' until the banking sector is stabilized. A recovery later this year is not out of the question, according to Bernanke. Read more. The gains lifted the KBW Bank exchange-traded fund (KBE:KBENews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) 14%, and boosted the Financial Select Sector SPDR (XLF:XLFNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500 Index ($SPX:$SPXNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , almost 15%. That was the biggest move in the XLF since January 21. U.S. bank stocks have a chance at recovering from their recent collapse compared with how technology issues fared in the wake of the dot-com bust, some analysts said Tuesday. 'There is probably more opportunity to get stabilization in financials in the near term, as in a year from now they will have bounced off more from the bottom than have technology shares -- so many of them went out of business,' said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies &amp; Co.  Citi (C:CNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) follows Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BACNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM:JPMNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) in commenting on being profitable for the year to date. Bank of America shares rose 27% and J.P. Morgan shares rose 23%. Direxion Bull 3x Shares (FAS:FASNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , an exchange-traded fund designed to provide 300% leverage to financial stocks on a daily basis, was on track for its biggest one-day gain on Tuesday as bank stocks rocketed higher. The ETF, which launched in November 2008, rose more than 33% in midday trading. Even with Tuesday's financials rally, the leveraged bullish ETF is down 85% for the year to date, according to FactSet Research. Financial stocks, and banks in particular, have been under pressure in recent weeks from short-sellers, who borrow shares and sell them, hoping to buy back the shares and return them later while pocketing the difference as a profit. When shares they have borrowed begin to rise, the short-sellers often jump back in as buyers, adding to a stock's gains. House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, D-Mass., told reporters at a press conference with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday that he expects the SEC to introduce a draft rule to reinstate the up-tick rule next month. Critics of short-sellers have argued that the rule's elimination has contributed to the economic downturn. Frank met with SEC Chairwoman Mary Schapiro to discuss issues relevant to both the SEC and the House Financial Services Committee, said Frank spokesman Steve Adamske. Elsewhere in the sector, an analyst's upgrade of credit-card stocks Capital One Financial Corp. (COF:COFNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) and Discover Financial Services (DFS:DFSNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) helped lift the shares on Tuesday as the broader financial sector bounced off the mat. Stifel Nicolaus analyst Chris Brendler wrote in a note that even though the credit-card companies will feel the pain of a severe recession, they should be able to weather the storm. Brendler also pointed to compelling valuations -- the stocks are trading near fresh lows in the wake of another disappointing jobs report. Last week, the Labor Department reported the U.S. economy lost 651,000 jobs in February, putting the unemployment rate above 8%.  Greg Morcroft is MarketWatch's financial editor in New York.
