 Yup... I made my own today... NOT TOO BAD for my first attempt. In My Humble Opinion.What's Dduk-Bo-Gi (), you say? Its a Korean style of  cylindrical shaped rice cake in anchovy-flavored chili paste stew of some sort. Yes, it is SPICY. RED SPICY. CHEWY and GOO.....D! Especially in cold, and wintery like weather.So SPICY it could give you stomach ulcer and indigestion... YUM. YUM. But I couldn't afford to pay 3,000 won each time just to eat it....   ^^How Did My Parents Like It?My mom wasn't used to it, and my father was fine with it... I thought it was FANTASTIC..... Yes, I loved it when I was Sydney. Still loved it in Korea.The quintessential Korean food among the Asians.. of course, the Australians weren't used to seeing that being on the streets, coz it looked rather scarily RED and SPICY for the typical Caucasian.  *LOL*Once, when I was holding it by the stick in front of ANZ BANK in Sydney, someone stared at me and went "WOAH, WHAT is that SHE'S EATING?!!!" *LOL*Maybe the Koreans should think about starting a chain store for it here, just like how Papa Roti and Roti Boy is getting so popular even among the South Koreans... and yes, both the latter are considered as premium food there too.... ! ^^INGREDIENTS were....Anyways, I bought all the essential ingredients for it. From Lotte Mart was the Spring Onion, the cylindrical-shaped dduk (rice cake), and used the (ikan bilis) anchovies, and the go-chu-jang I brought back from South Korea. Made it the way it was according to the recipe I found. Realised I had put in too much water, so I had to remove half of the water and re-used it a bit much later. ^^It was definitely spicy. The maid, Siti, thought it was good... and even more definitely when I told her that blardy thing costs RM10-RM15 per person's serving in the shops... (and at least 3,000 won at the po-jang-ma-cha!!). She actually thought that go-chu-jang was some meat thing till I told her that it was chilli paste. *LOL*Anyways, earlier today whilst at.... Korean Food Festival @ Ground Floor, Plaza DamasToday, I went to meet with my cousin, Karen at Plaza Damas to check out this so-called "Korean Food Festival" at Plaza Damas....let's just say that it was a total disappointment.....there were not that many things on display. Things that even the koreans themselves may barely even look at!  &gt;_
