Honestly, I feel like Elliot from "Scrubs" when I was just getting whacked in the head with 3 more lovely bills that I have to wonder on. I mean, when you go to the hospital you apparently don't get just on or two bills and from ONE location. I had the joy of discovering that even though I didn't go anywhere near the Paramus office for The Valley Hospital, and even though they are related, when you call the hospital they will have NOTHING to do with the ER bills though it is THEIR ER! GRRRR! RAWR! And other assorted p.c.-ish swears! Turns out it was for the doctor whom visited me in the ER. Grief!Apparently when you end up in the hospital on no insurance you will have to expect at least 3 seperate doctor's bills. A doctor in the ER ( 1), A doctor for an operation ( 2) and this could run up to a generous $49,800.00, depending on how much work was done on you, expect NO BREAK on this price. And then thedoctor that visits youin your room ( 3). There is then the other bills. A bill ( 4) from the Anesthesia person. (Usually very huge and is around $4,000.) The actual hospital bill ( 5) and if you stayed in a room, it could run upwards to $18,380.00. Expect ZERO help from the hospital. They assume if you have any tiny savings, that you should clear that out. And screw the factor of whether or not you have a job. Which I am now having to find any job. God knows how I am going to get hired with only one hand functioning. The nerves in my fingers are not fully healed. I can type with just my pointer finger, but the mainly numb other fingers interfer and I have to constantly fix what I type. Ah well! I have had toquit my occupational therapy. Because if I could make what that place makes in one day. I would be able to pay all the crazy bills I now have...with ease! My therapist called me and left a message hoping I would reconsider since I am not healed yet. I have no choice, it costs around $300.00 to $400.00 per session! I am now just doing my therapy completely by myself. I hope to get my fingers to spread from side to side. Apparently my nerves in my finger have something to do with why they won't straigten fully or spread. I still have a lot of pain in my hand. But I am almost fully used to it, and just can't wait for when my fingers and other parts of my hand will get feeling fully back. I had worked up to being able to grip up to 18 lbs. from having a grip of 85 lbs. like my right hand.Tells one how weak my left hand still is. If I concentrate hard enough, I have a grip of 20lbs. in it. Imagine having tears come to your eyes just trying to turn a knob on a door or open a screw top on a jar. Then welcome to my strange situation. ha!I am selling off stuff I never would have considered, on stupid ebay. And I get barely enough to catch up to the bills. My load had doubled since my accident. The only okay thing is that I have a bill that I don't have to pay till May 13th. Because Ihad to close an account because Citibank kicked myapr to a whopping 14.99! From being a nice 6 percent and I was not late. I had to reject it and did. Goodbye to being able to use that card to stave off paying shipping and packaging for my lousey ebay sales. Oh well I just adjust and move forward. 
