By this time next week, we'll be in our new house. I've been slowly repacking the subset of our belongings that I unpacked when we moved here nine months ago.Our living situation has been in flux for over a year now. When I came back to Birmingham in January 2008 to start my new job, I stayed with Jay's mother &amp; her friend during the week and commuted to Atlanta on the weekends. So Monday night through Thursday night, I lived in the guest room with some work clothes, a couple books, my laptop, my gym bag, and a pair of jeans in case I went out on a week night. It was very minimalist.Then in the spring, our house in Atlanta went under contract and we started looking for a place in Birmingham. We made three offers on three houses and they all fell through. The first guy would not negotiate the price - not one cent. The second house was in probate limbo and is still sitting empty. The third house, and this really pisses me off, had a contingent contract on it that the listing agent forgot to mention until after we paid for the inspections. With a month to go, we had no leads on houses, and then Bank of America decides that they don't want to do 5% down anymore, they want 20%. And since my suitcases full of money were all packed, we were really screwed.Fortunately, around the time we sold our house in Atlanta, Jay's mother &amp; her friend bought a new house. They'd done some work to fix it up, but their existing house had not sold. The market was cold. So we decided that we'd rent the new house while they waited out the market. I've loved this house - it has plenty of space and a huge yard for the dogs - but it's twenty miles outside of Birmingham. Granted, that's not like being twenty miles outside of Atlanta or DC, but it's still a pain.Then, suddenly last November, they got a full price non-contingent offer on their house. By early January, we had two new roommates and a lot more furniture. Since the house is so big, it has been able to accommodate four people, three dogs, three cats, and two houses worth of furniture. But it's not ideal for anyone for us all to be under the same roof, so we've been looking. Although I will say financially the last couple months have been nice since we're now paying half of what we paid before they moved in.And then about a month ago, Jay forwarded me a new listing in Crestwood that came on the market that morning. I emailed back that I thought it was worth looking at, so we made an appointment for 5 PM. As we walked through the house, we kept saying to each other: I think this could be it. Our agent wrote up an offer that night, and we were under contract the next day. It was the right house at the right price at the right time.So by this time next week, we'll be in a new house.
