 Americas Horse, March 2, 2009  If youre a clinic junkie  someone who attends every horse clinic within 150 miles of home  youll want to circle May 1-3 on your calendar for QuarterFest: A Celebration of the American Quarter Horse at the Tennessee Miller Coliseum inMurfreesboro,Tennessee. Well have clinics all weekend long, with four AQHA Professional Horsemen and women and two nationally recognized trainers: Julie Goodnight ofSalida,Colorado; Curt and Tammy Pate, a husband and wife fromNewell,South Dakota; Jeff Griffith of Gallatin Gateway,Montana; Christy Landwehr ofAurora,Colorado; and Bo Winslow ofEstes Park,Colorado. There will be a limited number of spots available for people to participate in clinics with their horses. Participation with a horse will be at an additional fee to general admission, so youll need to reserve your space in the clinics of your choice when tickets go on sale in early March. However, there are unlimited opportunities to attend clinics without your horse. If you want to audit any of the clinics, your general admission ticket will cover entrance. Visitwww.aqha.com/quarterfest for the tentative QuarterFest schedule. Fundamentals of natural riding, advanced equitation, improving your horse under saddle, and common equitation challenges and their solutions are the topics of six clinics being presented by AQHA Professional Horsewoman Julie Goodnight. You know Julie as The Horse Master on her new RFD-TV television show. Through her varied background  riding and training horses in dressage, jumping, racing, reining, colt-starting and versatility ranch work, and wilderness riding  Julie has discovered the underlying principles important to all disciplines. She communicates clearly with horses and riders in any discipline and at any level. Julie travels coast-to-coast  and beyond  throughout much of the year to help horses and riders at horse expos, conferences, clinics and while filming for her television makeover show. Julie has been featured inAmericas Horse, The Trail Rider, Horse &amp; Rider, Equus and Perfect Horse. Her syndicated columns appear in more than 15 regional publications throughoutNorth America. Her interactive Web sites,juliegoodnight.com andhorsemaster.juliegoodnight.com, and her channel onYoutube.comreach an even wider audience. Julie is also the international spokesperson for the Certified Horsemanship Association, an AQHA alliance partner. She resides nearSalida,Colorado, at her private horse ranch with her husband, Rich Moorhead, who is the CEO of Monarch Ski and Snowboard Area. QuarterFest is a three-day, education-packed celebration of the American Quarter Horse Associations 68th anniversary where AQHA members and horse enthusiasts from around the world will gather in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, May 1-3 for fun, entertainment and festivities to honor the worlds most versatile horse  the American Quarter Horse. Our sponsors  Tractor Supply, B&amp;W Trailer Hitches, John Deere, Justin Boots, Merial, Nutrena, Professionals Choice, Bank of America, Montana Silversmiths and Wrangler  share our passion for horses and are an integral part of QuarterFest. Visitwww.aqha.com/quarterfest to enroll in the clinics and purchase your general admission, clinic and extravaganza tickets, and to reserve a spot for you and your horse in the clinics as soon as tickets are available in early March. AQHA news and information is a service of AQHA publications. For more information onThe American Quarter Horse Journal, The American Quarter Horse Racing Journal or Americas Horse, visitwww.aqha.com/magazines.
