Many oil producers, pundits, and pols are wont to cast the blame of rising oil prices onto the age-old practice of commodity speculation. They say they are meeting demand. They cite correlations between the relatively recent rise in speculators and the increasing price of oil. And they note the sudden and sharp rise in price [...] Many oil producers, pundits, and pols are wont to cast the blame of rising oil prices onto the age-old practice of commodity speculation. They say they are meeting demand. They cite correlations between the relatively recent rise in speculators and the increasing price of oil. And they note the sudden and sharp rise in price as proof of the speculator&amp;#8217;s dastardly deeds. However, there is one group of people who, overall, don&amp;#8217;t appear to subscribe to the currently popular view of the power of commodity speculation. And, ironically enough, it is the group that would seem to be the most knowledgable on the subject. That group is economists. Click to read more&amp;#8230;.  Economist Mike Moffatt explains the way that commodity speculation works, and why it does not cause prices to rise. Oil analysts and traders believe that oil prices will rise in the future due to a combination of increased demand from China and India and due to slowing or even reduced supplies from &amp;#8220;peak oil&amp;#8221;. Seeing the writing on the wall, speculators start buying up oil futures and options today, believing they will be worth more in the future. This buying up of oil futures immediately raises their price, due to basic supply and demand. The price of oil should fall once these futures mature because speculators have no need for a physical delivery of oil - where would they store it? However prices, on average, do not fall - in fact they rise. It could be because someone is buying massive amounts of oil and physically storing it somewhere, but this is highly unlikely. What is more likely is that the price is maintained high because it is being &amp;#8220;stored&amp;#8221; in the ground rather than making it to market; that is some oil companies are cutting production. The Economist recently put it another way: This reasoning holds obvious appeal for those looking for a scapegoat. But there is little evidence to support it. For one thing, the surge in investment in oil futures is not that large relative to the global trade in oil. Barclays Capital, an investment bank, calculates that index funds, which have especially exercised the politicians because they always bet on rising prices, account for only 12% of the outstanding contracts on NYMEX and have a value equivalent to just 2% of the worlds yearly oil consumption. More importantly, neither index funds nor other speculators ever buy any physical oil. Instead, they buy futures and options which they settle with a cash payment when they fall due. In essence, these are bets on which way the oil price will move. Since the real currency of such contracts is cash, rather than barrels of crude, there is no limit to the number of bets that can be made. And since no oil is ever held back from the market, these bets do not affect the price of oil any more than bets on a football match affect the result. And Fortune magazine&amp;#8217;s Jon Birger issued an interesting challenge that would seem to apply to anyone with an opinion on the subject: The next time a Congressional committee wants to hold a hearing on how &amp;#8220;speculators&amp;#8221; are driving up oil prices, each committee member should first be required to demonstrate - preferably in their opening remarks - a basic understanding of the mechanics of futures trading.  Even better, they should be required to explain in detail how it is that investors who never take delivery of a single barrel of crude - and thus never remove a drop of oil from the open market - are causing record high oil prices. I couldn&amp;#8217;t agree more.  As a new student of economics, I would enjoy any opposing viewpoints that are supported by actual economists or students of the subject.        
