                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HONG KONG (Thomson Financial) - The U.S. dollar was stuck in narrow ranges against the euro and the yen on Wednesday afternoon in Asia ahead of the European Central Bank (ECB) interest rate-setting meeting tomorrow.  Investors are also waiting for more economic data from the U.S. to solidify their views on what will be the Federal Reserve's next move -- whether it would keep its key interest rates on hold for a while or continue its monetary easing.  'It's possible that the currency market is sidelined by the ECB meeting. The market is also waiting for a clearer direction in terms of monetary policy in the U.S.,' said David Mann, currency strategist at Standard Chartered Bank.  'Investors need more confirmation from economic data to gauge where interest rates rates are headed. Economic data in the U.S. are more relevant now more than ever,' Mann said.  At 1 p.m. (0500 GMT), the euro was trading at $1.5504 from $1.5512 in late morning trade in Sydney. The dollar was quoted at 104.75 yen from 104.88 yen.  'The market has not yet reached a conclusion on the U.S. economic recovery and the direction of interest rates,' said Tomoko Fujii, head of economic strategy at Bank of America in Tokyo.  While most analysts are predicting the Fed will maintain its rate at 2 percent, the lowest since December 2004, in the coming months, some are maintaining there could be more rate cuts this year, like StanChart's Mann and Bank of America's Fujii .  'The U.S. is still facing downside risks,' Fujii said. 'There could be additional rate cuts later this year.'  Bank of America expects a 25-basis-point rate cut in August and another quarter of a percentage point reduction after that, Fujii said.  'The next move of the Fed will likely be a rate cut and we don't expect any rate hike in the next 12 months,' said StanChart's Mann.  Since it began cutting rates in September, the Fed has slashed its benchmark rate by a total of 325 basis points, including the 25-basis-point reduction on April 30.  The dollar will likely remain under pressure due to speculations of more rate cuts in the United States while the ECB is expected to remain on hold.  The ECB will likely maintain its rate at 4 percent, the highest in six years, when policy makers meet on Thursday. The bank may also reiterate its concerns about inflation in the euro zone, which is at its highest level in nearly 16 years.  NAB Capital Markets head of currency strategy John Kyriakopoulos said the dollar is also being hurt by high oil prices, which hit fresh record highs overnight, briefly moving over $122 a barrel before easing back slightly. Supply disruptions and strong demand are expected to support high crude oil prices in the short-term.  Kyriakopoulos said the dollar remains constrained by news that the housing slide and credit crunch is continuing to hurt profits, suggesting a tepid economic recovery in the second half at best.  Andrew Spencer, a foreign exchange analyst at Thomson Reuters IFR Markets, said the surge in oil prices is a major concern to investors and is putting the U.S. dollar under additional downward pressure.  'The U.S. dollar is continuing to correct lower against the majors, but this is not translating into risk aversion,' Spencer said.  Range trading is the theme today in Asian trading, with Japanese dealers back at work after a two-day public holiday.     
