Dollar plummets to 6-year low against yenOctober 24, 2008 - 7:21PMThe Australian dollar fell this week to the lowest levels against the yen in at least six years as investors sold higher-yielding assets.The currency headed for its third weekly drop this month as Asian stocks slid on signs the world economy is on the brink of a recession. Investors bought back yen they borrowed in so-called carry trades used to purchase assets offering higher returns in Australia.The dollar also fell versus the US currency as the price of commodities the countries export plunged on concern demand will falter.``What you have is the global economy going down, commodity prices coming off and the old theme of global de-leveraging,'' said Thomas Harr, a senior currency strategist at Standard Chartered in Singapore. ``All of these issues are negative for the Aussie and the (New Zealand dollar) and positive for the yen.''Australia's dollar dropped 13.7% this week to 60.42 yen in Sydney from 70 yen on October 17 in New York. It earlier reached 60.17 today, the lowest since October 2001.The Australian dollar fell 7.3% to 63.84 US cents from 68.88 cents in New York on October 17.Risk aversion``The Aussie is always seen as a proxy for risk aversion and emerging currencies in these times,'' said Gregg Gibbs, a currency strategist at ABN Amro Australia in Sydney. ``It's a liquid currency that offers scope to get in and get trades done when people are fearing the worst.''Australia's dollar has dropped 31% against the yen and 23% versus the US dollar in the past month, the second-biggest losses of the 16 major currencies, as increasing signs of a global recession hammered stock and commodity prices.The Australian dollar still ``targets'' the 2000 low of 55.52 yen based on charts that predict price movements, said Kevin Edgeley, a technical analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London. Daily momentum indicators such as the stochastic oscillator chart have ``turned lower again,'' Edgeley wrote in a research note yesterday.Australia's S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 Index of shares has declined 39% this year, joining a rout in global equities. Asian stocks tumbled after South Korea's economic growth weakened, deepening concern a global slowdown is hurting profits.CommoditiesThe UBS Bloomberg Constant Maturity Commodity index of 26 raw materials dropped for a third day yesterday and is down 24% for the year. Raw materials account for 60% of Australia's exports.The VIX volatility index, a gauge reflecting expectations for stock-market price changes and risk appetite, was at 67.80 compared with a record high closing price of 70.33 on October 17.Benchmark interest rates are 6% in Australia, compared with 0.5% in Japan and 1.5% in the US, making its assets a favorite for carry trades.In a carry trade, investors get funds in a country with low borrowing costs and invest in one with higher interest rates, earning the spread between the two. The risk is that currency moves erase those profits.RBAThe Reserve Bank of Australia will lower rates by 1.60 percentage points over the next year, according to a separate Credit Suisse index.``We are now forecasting below-trend growth through to 2010,'' Tony Morriss, a senior currency strategist at ANZ Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a research note October 21. ``We now expect the Reserve Bank to cut rates further over coming months, toward a cash rate of 4.5%.''Australian government bonds rose for a fifth day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell 17 basis points to 4.91%, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the 5.25% security due March 2019 climbed 1.372, or $13.72 per $1,000 face amount, to 102.711. A basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.Courtesy: Dollar-Euros-Pound   business.smh.com.au   Bloomberg NewsPartners: Currency Online   Online Currency Exchange   UK Currency
