ORLANDO, Fla. -- A serial bank robber may be working in Orlando. Police said a man robbed a Bank of America on Conway Road late Tuesday morning and he looks similar to a man who robbed another Bank of America a few miles away on Monday.  'They have been robbed several times,' said Barbara Jones of the Orlando Police Department.  Surveillance pictures reveal the man in glasses and a hat standing at the counter of the Bank of America on South Conway Road (see map).  Finger print dust detectives suspect one man hit two banks in just 24 hours, based on strikingly similar surveillance pictures.  'I don't know what they're going to do about it. Obviously they've got to have more security or something to deter whoever is doing this,' said customer Deena Desalvo.  Tuesday's Bank of America is less than two miles away from the bank that was hit Monday.  Officers said the suspect entered the bank and implied that he had a weapon and then passed a note to the teller, demanded cash then took off. He was last seen headed toward an LA Fitness also on Conway Road.  The suspect was described as a white male, 6'2' wearing a white button-down shirt with a t-shirt underneath.  'Same bank, Bank of America hit twice, suspect's a white male, suspect's wearing glasses descriptions about 6 feet,' said Jones.  In recent years, local law enforcement officials have taken the lead in bank robbery investigation, a task formerly handled by federal and state officials who step in depending on circumstances.  'It's the number of bank robberies and the amount of money that's taken. But we always contact the FBI,' Jones said.  Eyewitness News looked at the numbers and found that year to year bank robberies appear the same. In 2008, Orlando police made arrests in 60 percent of bank robberies and they hope the images help solve the most recent crimes.  Orlando police said in their experience bank robbers are not so much professionals as they are desperate criminals who commit one or two robberies.  Anyone with information is asked to call the Orlando Police Department or Crimeline at 1-800-423-TIPS. Callers may remain anonymous and be eligible for a reward up to $1000.  Previous Stories:  March 9, 2009: Camera Captures Image Of Bank Robber  
