With the stunning news that DeMaurice Smith would be the new executive director of the NFL Players Association, the voters delivered a statement to NFL owners: Dont think for a minute that you can break us.  Smith, a 45-year-old attorney with no football background, supposedly was a unanimous choice.  At least that is what the union wrote in a release it issued in the wee hours of Monday morning. However, the likelihood that an outsider was unanimously selected over apparent favorite Troy Vincent (after fellow finalists Trace Armstrong and David Cornwell were eliminated from the process) is as plausible as all the NFL owners agreeing to opt out of the collective bargaining agreement last May essentially taking the first step toward possible labor Armageddon. The idea that 32 billionaires or near-billionaires can completely agree on any complicated issue is a farce.  Yet, the issue at hand isnt whether the player representatives are stretching the truth about what occurred in Maui. The point is solidarity. The most important message that comes out of this process is that there is no division, said Baltimore Ravens player rep Matt Stover, who steadfastly refused to discuss the voting process. We are not divided. We are unified. There is no disagreement about who is our leader or about our process. That is the truth. Im completely in support of DeMaurice Smith and how he was selected. By choosing the D.C. attorney over former players to replace the late Gene Upshaw, the union may get the best of both worlds. Two sources said that Smith is expected to pick Vincent to serve as one of his chief advisors. While picking your top opponent to be your right hand man can be problematic, this is standard operating procedure to players. On any team, starters and backups are expected to work together. That doesnt mean they always do, but generally thats what happens, particularly on good teams.  If the Smith-Vincent partnership doesnt materialize, Vincent could end up with a job in the league and thats not a good scenario. Vincent had a loyal following going into this election, which is why he  to become one of the finalists. The union needs to keep that loyal following on its side.  The union also wants to show its a good team. Thats why, less than two hours after losing the election, Vincent put as positive a spin on the situation as possible. Im happy its over, Im relieved, Vincent said, sounding every bit like a man who was put through a wringer the past two months. I would love to have been elected, but were going forward and were going to get behind [DeMaurice] Smith. The players must do that for obvious reasons, but staying behind a new leader who never played in the NFL will require careful maneuvering and belief. All the concerns that youd think we would have, he addressed them straight on, Stover said. I think he will surround himself with people who have a full understanding of the game and what the players think. Thats critical in the NFL because of the unique circumstances of the job. The NFLPA is a union of players who are paid to pound each other every week. That doesnt always make for the strongest bonds of trust in interpersonal dealings.  For example, contact during offseason workouts and drills is strictly prohibited under the rules of the CBA. However, this practice is commonly violated. Sometimes its pushed by the coaches, which players dislike. Sometimes its pushed by eager, young players trying to make the team in May. Regardless, the matter must be addressed.  There are issues of disability, and the health and benefits of retired players has been a major issue in recent years. As players undergo the rigors of a physically demanding career and deal with the day-to-day effects of procedures such as microfracture surgery on their knees, their long-term health has to be strongly weighed and planned. Thats where a long-time former player such as Vincent or Armstrong is vital to Smith.  In addition, Smith has to find a way to better address conflict-of-interest issues that Upshaw never cleaned up. There are apparent growing concerns of agents representing both coaches and players from the same team. The issue is one of agents encouraging players to agree to lesser deals to avoid a contentious situation with a team for which the agent also represents the head coach. Even more, the union has to step up its efforts in educating players on these types of conflicts and others.  While these aforementioned issues can be easily fixed, Smiths tougher task will be to educate the players about himself in the short time before negotiations are expected to start over a new CBA. Smith will need a strong player presence around him to give him credibility.  To that end, Vincent said he spoke with Smith after the election and offered his assistance, big or small. Vincent said Smith sounded receptive, but its too early to predict what that means exactly.  As for what the players mean to say coming out of Smiths election Sunday, they are completely in agreement. Or so they say.
