Two weeks ago today, at the height of the afternoon rush hour, a man walked into a Beaverton Bank of America. 'I need to make a large withdrawal,' the man explained. 'Well,' the teller responded, 'we have a cap of $5,000 at this bank center.' 'OK, I'll take it,' he said. Before the conversation began, the teller had noticed the man. He looked confused. He entered with a black bank-deposit bag and wore a green-khaki zip coat made by Nike. The teller liked the coat and intended to tell him so.   But back to the transaction. 'I need your account number,' the teller said. 'I'm sorry I have to do this,' the man eventually replied. 'You're being robbed. If you just give me the money, you won't get hurt.' The story could end there. The FBI says the man left with $1,583 from a bank drawer. He could have vanished into the weekend twilight and never been caught.   But it so happened that on this day, at this time, a customer in the bank also noticed the man in the Nike zip-up coat. In fact, she almost said, 'Hi.' About three years ago, the man was 86'd from the restaurant where the witness works. She thought it might be socially awkward to speak up.   Not only did the witness know the man, but she also knew his name. Are you sure? the cops asked. 'I'm absolutely positive,' she said. The suspect and his wife live in the basement of a home owned by his wife's parents. Within hours, authorities descended on a Beaverton neighborhood full of three-car garages, and at a home in the 16600 block of Southwest Heceta Court, they found a dark-colored bank-deposit bag underneath a mattress.   Inside the bag, they found $1,573 -- $10 less than what was taken from the bank.   The man's wife recognized him from the bank surveillance photos. 'No mistaking it,' she told authorities. 'That's him.' Everything up to this point has been the FBI's version of what happened two weeks ago, according to documents filed in U.S. District Court.   Police arrested 48-year-old David Joseph Connelly the same night, on accusations of bank robbery. On Thursday, a not-guilty plea was entered on his behalf. Connelly's attorney declined to comment Thursday, and his family did not immediately respond to an interview request.   FBI spokeswoman Beth Anne Steele said authorities don't know what happened to the missing $10. What's important to note, she said: 'Overall, I can tell you that most bank robbers in this area are caught.' 
