Man led police on high-speed chase before his arrest in Georgia.  A man wanted in connection with a Lake City bank robbery was arrested in Georgia Wednesday, according to police reports.  Leonard W. Willis, 44, 10958 Reading Road, Jacksonville, was arrested in Lamar County, Ga, after allegedly robbing two banks. He was arrested after leading Georgia authorities on a high-speed chase before his arrest.  They (authorities) got in a car chase with him, but I dont know if he wrecked or just quit, said Lake City Police Department public information officer Lt. Joe Moody. The banks that he robbed were in Forsyth and Barnesville, Georgia. He used the same M.O. (method of operation), same vehicle and everything.  On Feb. 23, Willis allegedly robbed the Bank of America branch office, 2357 U.S. Highway 90 West, at Gleasons Corner Mall.  Lake City Police Department reports indicated he walked into the bank shortly after lunch, robbed the bank and calmly walked away before police officers arrived at the scene.  No weapons were seen at the robbery, but the suspect indicated he had a weapon by holding his hand underneath his shirt to indicate he had a weapon.  An investigation by the Lake City Police Department determined Willis was a suspect in the local bank robbery and a warrant was issued for his arrest.  The investigation also revealed Willis was a suspect in several bank robberies in North Florida and South Georgia.  Moody said Willis was wanted in connection with a Volusia County bank robbery, as well as a series of other North Florida and South Georgia bank robberies.  He also robbed banks in Tifton and Dublin, Georgia, Moody said, noting Willis is believed to have robbed at least four banks in Florida, including the Lake City bank and three banks in Ormond Beach.  Moody said he was uncertain whether Willis would be brought back to Columbia County to face bank robbery charges. He said the FBI is involved with the cases and they may put all the cases together since they are federal crimes.  
