The sky came crashing down on the banking sector in 2008. As the complex world of collaterialised debt obligations from the murky depths of the US subprime collapsed in on itself, the bad debt started to mount and some of the biggest names in the sector were brought to their knees.  US mortgage giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, along with insurance behemoth AIG were forced to seek shelter under the wing of the US Government. Wall Street waved goodbye to its investment banking model with Bear Stearns sold off for $2 a share, Lehman Brothers collapsing, Merrill Lynch forced to sell itself off to Bank of America and Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley becoming traditional bank holding companies. Meanwhile, Washington Mutual was seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  In the UK, there were rights issues aplenty from RBS, HBOS, Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and Standard Chartered. However, these proved fairly fruitless as nationalisation quickly became one of the buzzwords of the year. Northern Rock was forced into the arms of the Government in February while Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley bit the dust in September with its savings arm going to Santander and the UK authorities taking on its mortgage and loans book.  HBOS was forced into an 'arranged marriage' with Lloyds TSB much to the dismay of both sets of shareholders who eventually overcame their antipathy to vote through the merger. When investors failed to take up shares in troubled RBS, the Government was left with a stake of almost 58%. The bank said it is likely to turn a full-year loss for the first time ever.  Barclays turns to Middle Eastern investorsto avoid the same fate as HBOS, RBS and Lloyds. The royal families of Abu Dhabi and Qatar own more than a third of the UK's second biggest bank once the deal goes through in November. Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester, meanwhile, was taken over by Santander.  Bail-out time  Desperate times call for desperate measures and Governments around the world were forced to unveil massive financial stimulus packages to try and breathe new life into their flagging economies. After much kerfuffle, the US finally pushed through a $700 billion lifeboat to keep the banking sector afloat with initial plans to buy up toxic assets later replaced by a European style move to take a stake in banks in return for preference shares.  In November, the US unveiled another $800 billion rescue package, this time to support the flagging mortgage industry. The central bank planned to buy up $600 billion worth of mortgage related debt in a bid to reduce the cost of home loans and encourage lending. Finally the struggling auto industry got the lifeline it desperately needed with General Motors, Chrysler and Ford all set to share in loans of more than $17 billion.  Meanwhile, the UK Government became the majority shareholder in RBS and the enlarged Lloyds Banking Group in return for 37 billion worth of funding. In return, the banks were forced to sign up to a Financial Services Authority agreement to curtail their dividend payments and limit the pay packets of top banking executives.  The UK Government also earmarked 250 billion for banks to guarantee medium-term debt to help boost confidence within the troubled sector. Additionally, the Bank of England made a further 200 billion available under its Special Liquidity Scheme for short-term borrowing to ease the liquidity squeeze.  Other European Governments including the German, Dutch, Swiss and French are also forced to wade in and support their beleaguered banks. Elsewhere, China announced a $600 billion economic package to stem falling growth and boost export levels while India set aside $4 billion.  Economies  The global slowdown quickly turned to recession in the latter part of the year with Japan and Singapore among the first to see their economies shrink for two consecutive quarters. The list of countries joining them soon expanded with Germany, Italy, Sweden and the eurozone among those signing up to the not-so-exclusive club. The UK, France and US were teetering on the brink in the third quarter and are expected to join them when the fourth quarter figures are released in January.  Iceland hit the wall in September with its big three banks taken under Government control, leaving thousands of outraged British savers to claim compensation. The IMF had to step in to support Latvia, Hungary and Ukraine.  Rates  In October, central banks around the world take the unprecedented step of slashing interest rates simultaneously. The Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve along with central banks in Switzerland, Canada and Sweden all opted for half a percentage point reduction while China cut its rates by 0.27 percentage points. Further rate cuts follow leaving the cost of borrowing at a historic low in the US (on a sliding scale between 0% and 0.25%) and the UK (2%).  Inflation  Soaring food, fuel and energy prices pushed inflation to a 16-year high of 5.2% in September before the credit crisis struck fear into the heart of the markets and the creeping economic downturn gave rise to fears of deflation. The Consumer Prices Index dropped back to 4.1% in November.  
