hi all.     I am currently in the process of trying to help my parents reclaim all the unlawful bank charges applied to their account.     We sent the S.A.R - (Subject Access Request) Letter with the 10 fee which the accepted BUT they have only sent them a summary of charges for 5 years and full bankstatements for the past year. I sent Abbey a letter explaining that the summary of charges was unacceptable and again requested full statements for the past 6 years and not just summaries. My parents received another letter about 1 week later but only to receive a duplicate letter of the one they first received which had enclosed a summary of 5 years and informed them that 1 years full bank statements would be received shortly.     I am now planning on sending them  another  letter explaining their mistake and to AGAIN ask for FULL statements for the 6 years as i had orginally requested.     Today they have received the 1 years fulls bank statements as they promised but i have noticed on the statements that not only are there charges but also:    They have charged my parents 20 for an &amp;#039;unauthorised overdraft&amp;#039; but on the same day they also charges 30 for a &amp;#039;Paid Item Fee&amp;#039;     So i assume that a direct debit tried to be taken from their account but there was not eneough money in there so abbey paid for the direct debit then charged them 30 to do so which then resulted in their account going overdrawn which then resulted in the 20 unauthorised overdraft fee being applied so in all, my parents have been being chagred 50 for abbey to pay for a direct debit rather then just refusing it and then notifying them in writing that the direct debit had been refused!!       My query is can my parents reclaim any of these charges? Either the unauthorised overdraft fee or/and the Paid Item Fee&amp;#039;? It seems that this is their was out of charging you for a refused direct debit and are chargeing you for the direct debit being paid as well as an overdraft fee but the account would never have been overdrawnif they had merely refused the direct debit in the first place as my bank Barclays do.      Any info on this matter would gratefully appreciated as i am now unsure what they can actually reclaim ....
