     Quote, originally posted by  a_riot  &amp;amp;raquo;      I realize that.  He was put in place by Paulson, his ol&amp;#039; buddy. Umkay, so why do they need $150 billion of tax payer dollars if they are doing so swimmingly. Methinks you need to read this:   AIG: The Looting Continues (Banana Republic Watch)      The AIG of the future is definitely going to be a much smaller and more focused business than the AIG of today. The parts of the company that &amp;quot;doing so swimmingly&amp;quot; are in the process of being sold to raise capital to pay off those government loans. AIG Direct, the car insurance business, is not only being sold, but it changing its name to 21st Century, the former name of a CA insurance company that was purchased by AIG. This is because the AIG brand has been poisoned by sensationalist media reports and government finger pointing that fail to distinguish between different facets of the company. That article makes some good points. Perhaps the larger problem here is that the people in congress who have oversight are telling the American people that a reward for independent insurance agents is a &amp;quot;LUXURIOUS RETREAT FOR TOP AIG EXECUTIVES FINANCED BY YOUR TAX DOLLARS!!!!!&amp;quot; How can you trust someone who deliberately misleads you to put together and effective regulatory framework that will prevent this kind of thing from happening again? These guys in Washington either don&amp;#039;t really have a grasp of this issue or, more likely, they only care about the solution to the extent that it futhers their own political future. I&amp;#039;m further frustrated that so many people buy into the bill of goods. The problem here is that a small part of the AIG business insured a lot of other companies debt, debt that is now crap thanks to real estate greed. Letting AIG fail means that all those debt holders would also be wiped out, bankrupting thousand of other companies and wiping out millions of jobs. That something that the US just can&amp;#039;t let happen. How do you propose to address this?       &amp;#039;01 Matchstick red GTI 1.8t    &amp;#039;62 Lincoln Continental  
