US stocks ended little changed on Monday as a jittery market awaited news on the fate of a massive economic stimulus package being considered by the US Congress as well as a financial recovery plan.   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 9.72 points (0.12 percent) to close at 8270.87 as major stock indexes moved between slight gains and losses.   The tech-heavy Nasdaq points was down 0.15 point (0.01 percent) to 1591.56 and the broad Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index rose 1.29 points (0.15 percent) to 869.89.   Cards close to their vest  Traders were playing 'their cards close to their vest, anxiously awaiting the details of the structure of President (Barack) Obama's economic stimulus plan that is being hotly debated in the Senate,' experts at Charles Schwab &amp; Co. said.   The market also was wary over an announcement by the US Treasury at the weekend that a banking stabilization plan scheduled to be unveiled on Monday had been postponed to Tuesday.   The move was to enable lawmakers to focus on the more than $800-billion economic stimulus package that Obama wanted Congress to clear before the end of the week.   The key Dow index dropped by over 50 points in early trading amid concerns on particularly the financial recovery package, before moving on a tight trading range. 'A delay in the unveiling of a federal bank rescue plan gave investors pause,' said Wachovia Securities chief market strategist Al Goldman. 'The market is also waiting for congressional passage of an economic stimulus package this week,' he said. 'Some profit-taking appeared to weigh on stocks after a two-day rally on Thursday and Friday.' The market concerns over the economic recovery plan came even as senators agreed at the weekend on a provisional deal to adopt the stimulus package to jolt the world's biggest economy out of a prolonged recession.   It's time to act 'We've had a good debate - now it's time to act, that's why I am calling on Congress to pass this bill immediately,' Obama said on Monday in Elkhart, Indiana, a city where unemployment has rocketed to 15.3 percent.   Obama was also to make the case for the stimulus in his first prime-time press conference late on Monday.   Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is scheduled to unveil a financial recovery plan on Tuesday that is aimed at shoring up ailing banks and the moribund housing market.   Financial stocks were the main focus of trading.   Bank of America rose 12.40 percent to 6.89 dollars while Morgan Stanley rose 3.24 percent to 23.61 dollars.   General Motors shares were down 0.35 percent to 2.83 dollars as the company and another ailing auto giant Chrysler faced a deadline next week to demonstrate their ability to repay government loans that saved them from bankruptcy.   The bond market continued to fall. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose to 3.027 percent from 2.979 percent on Friday and that on the 30-year bond advanced to 3.706 percent from 3.683 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 
