U.S. stocks declined on Monday after the Obama administration delayed the expected unveiling of its financial-recovery package. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was lower by around 21 points in recent trading, sliding to about 8260. The S&amp;P 500 was down about 0.02% and the Nasdaq Composite Index shed 0.4%. Stocks snapped a four-week losing spell last week as investors looked past a dismal employment report to passage of the economic stimulus plan and the rollout of the bank rescue. A Senate vote on a compromise stimulus measure is expected on Tuesday. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is also expected to announce Tuesday that the government will become a partner with the private sector to purchase banks' troubled assets. The plan also includes programs designed to jumpstart consumer lending and assist struggling homeowners. The administration's plans have evolved over the past several weeks as it has considered and discarded a host of ideas, with financial markets anxiously awaiting details. Geithner had planned an announcement Monday but delayed it a day to allow the focus to remain on the stimulus bill in Congress. As investors awaited the plan, the dollar was weaker against major rivals and U.S. Treasury prices declined. The two-year note fell 1/32 to yield 1.02%. The benchmark 10-year Treasury lost 8/32, sending its yield up to 3.03%. A huge new supply of government debt is expected to hit the market this week. Financial stocks, which have set the tone for the broader stock market in recent weeks, were mixed. Bank of America climbed early, while Morgan Stanley dipped. Barclays' U.S. shares were up 13% after it said it wouldn't turn to the British government for more capital. Elsewhere, General Motors shares were flat after The Wall Street Journal reported the company is in talks to take back large portions of Delphi Corp. to get more U.S. bailout funds. And Nissan Motor shares lost 3% pre-market after it said it was cutting 20,000 jobs after reporting a $904 million quarterly loss. Asian stock markets finished mixed. Japan's Nikkei shed 1.3% on a stronger yen. Europe stocks were generally flat; the U.K.'s FTSE 100 was up 0.2%. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
