Wall Street retreats on worries about the stimulus and s, big drop in home prices. NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- The stock selloff accelerated Thursday afternoon, with financials leading the way, as investors worried about the effectiveness of the government's plans to soften the blow of the recession.The Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) lost 223 points, or 2.8%, with an hour left in the session. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 (SPX) index lost 23 points, or 2.8%. The Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 30 points, or 2%.Questions about the  and economic stimulus bill dragged on stocks throughout the session. The selling gained steam after the release of a housing report.Home prices fell 12.4% in the fourth quarter of last year, the National Association of Realtors reported. The decline left prices at the lowest level since 2003. A separate report showed weekly unemployment claims remained near a 26-year high. The housing and labor market readings overshadowed a surprise rise in retail sales.Stocks rose Wednesday, finding momentum at the end of a choppy session, after lawmakers announced that the Senate and House had reached a compromise deal on a $789 billion economic stimulus package. The bill is expected to be voted on by the two houses on Friday, meeting President Obama's goal of having it on his desk to sign by Monday, Presidents Day.But enthusiasm about the  and the stimulus plan seems to have waned of late. 'There was all this anticipation about the Geithner plan, and then they release this amorphous mess,' said Greg Church, president of Church Capital. He said the economic stimulus plan wasn't doing much for market psychology at the moment because a lot of its impact on the economy won't be felt until next year.Overall, the market is reflecting 'the realization that we still have a big problem and we are still not sure how to deal with it,' he said.Economy: Unemployment claims fell last week, but remained near a 26-year high. The government reported that the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment fell by 8,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 623,000.The Commerce Department released its January retail sales report Thursday morning. Sales rose 1% after falling for six straight months, fueling skepticism from economists. Economists thought sales would fall 0.8% in the month, according to a Briefing.com survey. Sales excluding volatile autos rose 0.9% versus forecasts for a drop of 0.4%.Financial sector: Banks and the broader market continue to react to the Obama administration's  announced earlier in the week and seen by critics as lacking details. On Wednesday, Geithner testified before the Senate Budget Committee, but continued to be vague on details. Also Wednesday, executives at eight of the largest financial institutions testified before a House committee regarding how they are using the bailout money they've already been given.Big bank shares declined Thursday, including American Express (AXP, Fortune 500), Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500), Citigroup (C, Fortune 500), JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500) and Wells Fargo (WFC, Fortune 500).The KBW Bank Sector (BKX) index fell 8.8%.General Electric (GE, Fortune 500) shares continued to trade in tune with the financial sector, as investors focused on the prospects for its GE Capital unit.Market breadth was negative. On the New York Stock Exchange, decliners beat advancers three to one on volume of 700 million shares. On the Nasdaq, losers topped winners eight to five on volume of 1.37 billion shares. Other company news: A bright spot was Dow component Coca-Cola (KO, Fortune 500), which rallied after it reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit, thanks to strong global sales. Bonds: Treasury prices rose, lowering the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.76% from 2.79% Wednesday. Treasury prices and yields move in opposite directions. Lending rates were unchanged. The 3-month Libor rate held steady at 1.23%, according to Bloomberg.com. The overnight Libor rate held steady at 0.30%. Libor is a bank lending rate.Other markets: In global trading, Asian and European markets both ended lower.The dollar gained against the euro and the yen.U.S. light crude oil for March delivery fell $1.96 to settle at $33.98 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. COMEX gold for April delivery rose $4.70 to $949.20 an ounce. Gasoline prices rose 1.2 cents to a national average of $1.952 a gallon, according to a survey of credit-card swipes released Thursday by motorist group AAA. 
