(RTTNews) - The major U.S. index futures are pointing to a lower opening on Tuesday. Financial stocks may continue to weigh on the broader markets until more clarity emerges on the financial soundness of these firms. Additionally, complete unfreezing of the credit markets may be required to convince traders of a revival in economic conditions. The results of the New York Fed's manufacturing survey released earlier in the day suggest that conditions in the manufacturing sector continue to remain precarious.  Weak commodity prices may also impact sentiment among commodity stocks. That said, sentiment over the course of the session is also likely to depend on the housing market report and the Fed speech scheduled for the day. There could also be some apprehensions surrounding the fate of the economic stimulus bill, which is due to be signed into a law by President Obama.  U.S. stocks returned back to their losing ways in the week ended February 13th, with the major averages receding amid nervousness over the likelihood of President Obama's massive economic stimulus package clearing both houses of Congress. Additionally, most were apprehensive of the effectiveness of the package, given the entrenched pessimism about a recovery in economic conditions.  On Monday, the markets ended on a mixed note, as traders were exasperated over a delay in the announcement of the modified guidelines for spending the remainder of the 'TARP' funds. The financial rescue plan announced by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner turned out to be a damp squib due to a lack of specifics, dragging the major averages sharply lower on Tuesday.  However, the markets advanced moderately on Wednesday on slender hopes that the stimulus package will work. The optimism slowly gave way of pessimism amid the release of a few disappointing economic reports and the major averages were down sharply for much of the session on Thursday only to be salvaged by a report that the government is on course to announce a plan to help troubled homeowners by subsidizing mortgage payments. On Friday, amid trepidation about whether the economic stimulus package will be vetted by the Senate, which subsequently approved it after the markets closed, the major averages ended lower.  For the week, the Dow Industrials ended down 5.20% and the Nasdaq Composite Index lost 3.60%, while the S&amp;P 500 Index declined 4.81%.  Among the sub-indexes, the KBW Bank Index and the Philadelphia Housing Sector Index posted weekly losses of 14.03% and 10.70%, respectively. The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 7.69% for the week, the Amex Securities Broker/Dealer Index lost 6.47% and the S&amp;P Retail Index ended down 6.45%.  While the Dow Jones Utilities Average moved down 5.05% for the week, the Amex Oil Index and the Philadelphia Oil Service Index declined 4.06% and 5.61%, respectively. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index fell 3.71%. On the other hand, the Amex Gold Bugs Index advanced 1.36% for the week. Currency, Commodity Markets Crude oil futures are trading down $1.88 at $35.63 a barrel. In the week ended February 13th, crude oil extended its slide and ended down $ 6.62 or 16.49% at $37.51 a barrel. The commodity opened the week with a decline and showed a steeper decline in Tuesday's session.  On Wednesday, oil declined again in reaction to a report that showed healthy oil stocks in the U.S. After pulling back further on Thursday, crude oil rebounded sharply on Friday on hopes that growth will revive in response to the House of Representatives passing the stimulus bill.  Gold futures are trading up $22.90 to $965.10 an ounce. In the previous week, the precious metal rose $27.90 or 3.05% to $942.20 an ounce.  On the currency front, the U.S. dollar ended little changed against the yen in the week ended February 13th. The dollar gained 1.22% against the euro in the week before ending at $1.2863 a euro.  Currently, the U.S. dollar is trading at 92.015 yen and is valued at $1.4238 versus the euro. Asia Stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region tumbled on Tuesday amid lingering concerns about the health of the UK banking sector and caution ahead of a deadline for the submission of restructuring plans for government assistance by U.S. automakers General Motors and Chrysler later in the day. The absence of overnight cues from the U.S. markets also weighed on the markets.  The Japanese market fell sharply to a nearly 4-month low after Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa announced his decision to resign once current budget bills pass a key legislative stage. The Nikkei 225 index closed at 7,646, down 105 points or 1.35%.  Stocks of consumer finance, paper and pulp, and insurance companies fell sharply, while rubber product stocks bucked the declining trend. Banking stocks came under significant selling pressure due to continued weakness among their European peers overnight after Britain's Lloyds issued a profit warning Friday. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group tumbled 3.83%, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group fell 2.68%, Mizuho Financial Group lost 3.85% and Resona Holdings slipped 0.39%.  Insurance stocks also fell on fears over valuation losses on their overseas securities investments. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group declined 3.29%, Sompo Japan Insurance shed 3% and T&amp;D Holdings plunged 9.89%.  In the realty space, Mitsui Fudosan plunged 5.84% and Sumitomo Realty &amp; Development tumbled 4.56% on reports that developers added 1,760 new condominium units to the market in January, 24 percent fewer than a year earlier.  Shipping stocks showed weakness following a 3.2% drop in the Baltic Dry Index on Monday. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines plummeted nearly 6%, Kawasaki Kisen lost 2.61% and Nippon Yusen fell 2.27%  Among automakers, Suzuki declined 0.88%, Toyota moved down 0.66%, and Nissan and Mazda slipped around 0.7% each, while Honda Motor added 1.14% on strong demand for its Insight hybrid. Tire maker Bridgestone surged up 5.23% following a stock upgrade by Credit Suisse.  In economic news, the territory industry index, an index measuring activity in Japan's service industry was lower by a seasonally adjusted 1.6% in December compared to the previous month, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said. That was in line with analyst expectations following the revised 1.1% monthly decline in November.  Japan's Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa announced his resignation after being criticized for appearing drunk at a G7 press conference in Rome. His resignation in the midst of deepening economic crisis is a major blow to Prime Minister Taro Aso's government, which has lost its popularity.  Nakagawa apologized to the prime minister, the people and members of parliament. He said he would be giving a formal resignation after the budget for next fiscal year is passed by the lower house of parliament.  However, he denied allegations of being drunk at the news conference, saying that he had taken only cold medicine. The opposition had immediately called for his resignation for damaging the nation's image.  The Australian market fell sharply, led by banks and insurers amid mixed corporate earnings reports and fears about European banks. The All Ordinaries index fell 49 points or 1.42% to 3,412.  Banking and insurance stocks closed sharply lower for the day. Among banks, National Australian Bank tumbled 3.72%, ANZ plummeted 4.31%, Commonwealth Bank fell 2.06%, and Westpac Banking declined 0.94%.  Australia's largest airline Qantas Airways plummeted 5.11% after announcing that it would cease a number of its services to China and domestic services within New Zealand.  The resources sector closed mostly lower, with gold miners bucking the downtrend following a jump in the spot price of gold in Sydney. BHP Billiton fell 1.31%, its rival Rio Tinto slipped 1.44% and Iluka Resources declined 0.24%, but Newcrest Mining gained 1.06% and Lihir Gold jumped 4.20%.  OZ Minerals surged up 17.27% after it agreed to a $1.7 billion takeover bid from Chinese state-owned trading group Minmetals. OneSteel rose 0.90% after its first-half profit more than tripled because of strong demand and prices in the early part of the period.  South Korea's benchmark KOSPI plunged 48 points or 4.11% to 1,127, as exporters came under significant selling pressure amid continuing fears about the global economic slowdown. Net selling by foreign funds and the uncertain fate of General Motors also weighed on the market.  Among banking stocks, Woori Finance plunged 6.83%, Korea Exchange Bank slumped 4.78% and KB Financial, the holding firm of Kookmin Bank, plummeted 4.82%, as continued weakness in economic indicators caused concerns about banks' financial health.  Technology stock Hynix Semiconductor plunged 8.27% on weakness in DRAM chip prices and due to a negative brokerage note. Automaker Kia Motors plummeted 7.69%, Ssangyong Motor plunged 11.24% and Hyundai Motor fell 2.88%.  Hong Kong's Hang Seng opened notably lower and moved sideways for the rest of the session. The index ended down 510.48 points or 3.79% at 12,945. Thirty-nine of the forty-two index components ended the session lower.  Chalco, China Life, ICBC, CCB, CNOOC, Petrochina, Tencent, Esprit Holdings and China Mercantile Holdings led the declines. Index heavyweights HSBC Holdings and China Unicom fell 2.54% and 4.40%, respectively. Europe The major European markets are retreating sharply on Tuesday, with the French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index receding 2.54% and 2.75%, respectively, while the FTSE 100 Index is moving down 2.20%. Oil and financial stocks are weighing on the averages. Financial stocks are moving to the downside in reaction to the news that Moody's said it may downgrade banks with exposure to Eastern Europe and the negative sentiment that prevailed following British banks Lloyd's warning on Friday.  In corporate news, U.K.-based BG Group today raised its offer price for Pure Energy by almost 25% to A$995 million, outbidding a rival offer from Arrow ...
