Taking cues from overseas selling, U.S. stocks continued to decline broadly Tuesday in a move that earlier knocked the market within easy reach of its bear-market lows. Underscoring renewed intensity of investors' jitters over the global economy's weakness, large banking stocks have slid rapidly across the globe. In the U.S. the tone isn't much better as investors continue to bet on more banking failures and the sentiment seems to signal that any move out of Washington may not be enough. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently down 265 points, or 3.4%, at about 7589, close to its Nov. 20 closing low that have so far marked the bottom of the recent swoon. The Dow's financial components once again led the way downward, with Bank of America off 10% to $5, JPMorgan Chase off 10.4% to $22.14, American Express down 10.3% to $14, and Citigroup off 9.7% to $3.16. 'The financials are still the biggest concern for this market,' said Wachovia Securities strategist Al Goldman. Fears about the health of banks pulled markets lower in Europe and Asia in the last two sessions. Notably, Moody's Investors Service said it may downgrade the ratings of lenders with exposure to Eastern Europe, noting faltering economic conditions in Eastern Europe will continue to hit the asset quality and liquidity positions of local subsidiaries of major Western banks, which could spill over to their corporate parents. Domestically, the losses have been even more broad-based. Among the biggest weights was a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's that conditions for New York manufacturers plunged in February, while the outlook for the next six months also deteriorated again. Caterpillar was off 6.3% on the report, with a wave of steel companies also pushing lower. Also weighing on the Dow, General Motors, which faces a Tuesday deadline to submit recovery plans to the U.S. government as part of their agreement to receive billions of dollars in federal loans, was down almost 14% to $2.15. Market veterans increasingly fear that if the tone on banks and GM pushes major averages into new lows, the downward momentum could mount, with the next trough not likely to be set until much more pain has been inflicted. 'Some people think it's bullish that we've been near the lows a couple times and not broken through yet, but I tend to think the other way,' said Chip Hanlon, president of Delta Global Advisors in Huntington Beach, Calif. 'The more times you test a low, the odds should go up that it's going to give way.' Keith Wirtz, president and chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, estimated the market could perhaps slide another 5% to 10% if it closes below its late-November lows. Wirtz said his firm usually prefers to focus on fundamental factors like profits and valuations, but has lately been keeping a closer eye on technicals, or chart-based trends in the market. 'The technicals matter a lot in this environment,' with automated trading programs again adding volatility to the market in recent days, he said. Other market indexes traded lower in recent action. The S&amp;P 500 was down 4.2% to 792, hurt by declines in every sector including a 8.7% plunge in the financials. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 3.7% to 1477. The Russell 2000 was down 3.9% to 431. Among the few signs of strength in the market's Tuesday drop was Wal-Mart Stores. The retail giant also issued a rosy outlook for the first quarter and the full fiscal year. Wal-Mart shares were up 3.8% to $48.31, making it the only stock to rise among the Dow industrials. Still, the global concern mounts. Commodities prices sank due to deepening concern about demand for industrial materials amid the global economic downturn. Crude-oil futures slid nearly 7%, with energy companies falling as a result. Gold was an exception to the commodity selloff, helped by buying from investors looking to use the metal as a financial hedge against weakness in other investments. Futures were recently up almost $30 at $971.80 per ounce in New York. Newmont Mining was up 3% Tuesday amid the rise in gold prices. Also helping gold was news that the Russian central bank increased its holdings of the metal by about $1 billion in January to $15.5 billion, with more buying likely to come throughout the year. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
