(RTTNews) - After showing a lack of direction for much of Monday's session, stocks ultimately closed nearly unchanged. Nonetheless, stocks largely hung onto the gains posted last week, which could be viewed as a positive sign for the markets.  In corporate news, Japanese automaker Nissan (NSANY) announced that it has cut 20,000 jobs and recorded a third-quarter consolidated net loss of $0.81 billion, compared to net income of $1.28 billion last year.  The loss was driven by the severe downturn in the global economy in the second half of calendar year 2008. Nissan also forecast a full year net loss of $2.58 billion for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2009.  Meanwhile, some negative sentiment was generated by news that Treasury Secretary Geithner postponed the unveiling of how the Treasury Department will spend the remaining $350 billion of the $700 billion financial rescue package until Tuesday.  The move was seen as an effort by the Obama administration to allow Washington to focus on the economic stimulus package being debated in the Senate.  The Senate has reached a tentative deal on a bill to boost the economy and try to stave off the worst effects of the deepening recession. The compromise cuts down the size of the proposed stimulus, but it may have trouble finding the support it needs pass a procedural hurdle.  President Barack Obama is launching a full-scale attack in order to build support for the economic recovery package, which he hopes to sign into law by President's Day.  For his part, Obama is taking his message directly to the public with a series of visits Monday and Tuesday to cities especially hurt by the current recession.  Monday afternoon, he spoke in Elkhart, Indiana, a city with an unemployment rate nearly twice the national average at over 13 percent. In his remarks, he urged Congress to pass the legislation 'as soon as humanly possible.' The president will also hold a prime-time news conference to speak out in support of the bill.  In other news, the Securities and Exchange Commission's Director of the Division of Enforcement Linda Thomsen is leaving her post. In a statement, the SEC praised the accomplishments of Ms. Thomsen without discussing the reasons behind her departure.  Thomsen will return to the private sector, the SEC said, without offering details for her future employment.  During her time at the SEC, she helped to conduct several important investigations, although there were several glaring mistakes as well, including the alleged $50 billion Ponzi scheme perpetrated by Bernard Madoff.  The major averages ended the session mixed, although all three were near the unchanged line. While the S&amp;P 500 closed up 1.29 points or 0.2 percent at 869.89, the Dow closed down 9.72 points or 0.1 percent at 8,270.87 and the Nasdaq closed down 0.15 points or less than 0.1 percent at 1,591.56.  Sector News  While gold and healthcare stocks led the declining sectors for most of the day, notable weakness was also shown by steel stocks. The Amex Steel Index closed down 1.9 percent on the day.  Within the steel sector, Universal Stainless &amp; Alloy Products (USAP) ended the session with one of the widest losses, closing down 6.6 percent. With the decline, the stock fell to its lowest closing level in nearly a month.  Other notable losses were shown by housing, utility, and networking stocks, with the Philadelphia Housing Index closing down 1.4 percent, while the Philadelphia Utility Index and the Amex Networking Index fell 1.1 percent and 1.2 percent, respectively.  At the other end of the spectrum, banking stocks held onto strong gains at the market close, with the Kbw Bank Sector Index ending the session with a gain of 2.2 percent.  Tobacco and defense stocks also posted gains on the day. The Amex Tobacco Index ended the day up 1.3 percent and the Philadelphia Defense Sector Index closed with a gain of 1.1 percent. Other notable gains were shown by stocks in the natural gas and oil services sectors.  Dow Components  Even though many of the Dow components ended the session in negative territory, the downside for the blue chip index was offset by strong gains by General Electric (GE) and Bank of America (BAC), which closed up 13.9 percent and 12.4 percent, respectively.  The strength shown by Bank of America lifted the stock further off of a recent multi-decade closing low. The advance came as investors remain confident that the company will be helped by the upcoming measures to bring the U.S. out of the financial crisis.  Noteworthy gains were also shown by 3M (MMM) and Intel (INTC), which closed up 3.3 percent and 1.2 percent, respectively.  Meanwhile, Coca-Cola (KO) turned in one of the worst performances of the day, closing down 2.9 percent. The decline by Coca-Cola came on news that Lion Nathan Ltd. is withdrawing its proposal to merge with Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL.AX). Procter &amp; Gamble (PG), Home Depot (HD), and Kraft (KFT) also suffered noteworthy losses, falling 2 percent, 1.9 percent, and 1.8 percent, respectively.  Other Markets  In overseas trading, the stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region ended the day mixed, with Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 Index closing down 1.3 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index ended the session with a 0.8 percent gain.  Meanwhile, after seeing some earlier weakness, the major European markets ultimately closed higher. The French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index closed with gains of 0.4 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively, while the U.K.'s FTSE 100 Index ended the day up 0.4 percent.  In the bond market, treasuries extended a recent downward move ahead of a record auction of government debt later this week. Subsequently, the yield on the benchmark ten-year note ended the session up 4.8 basis points at a new two-month closing high of 3.027 percent.  Looking Ahead  Trading on Tuesday is likely to be impacted by any activity on the Senate economic stimulus bill and Treasury Secretary Geithner's speech as well as a Commerce Department report on wholesale inventories in the month of December.  Additionally, earnings releases from Lincoln National (LNC) and Vulcan Materials (VMC) are due out after the closing bell on Monday, while quarterly releases are expected from Coventry Health Care (CVH), Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG), and Qwest (Q) before Tuesday's open.
