(Adds information, quotes, updates/adds market levels)  Asian shares were mixed Thursday with Japan's exporters and the wider Nikkei 225 posting solid gains on the back of a weaker yen. Japan's Nikkei 225 was last up 1.3%, Korea's Kospi was 1.1% higher, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 was up 0.4%, though Hong Kong's Hang Seng was 1.0% lower and Singapore's Straits Times index was down 0.4%. Taiwan's Taiex was 0.4% higher and New Zealand's NZX-50 was up 0.2%. Trading updates and earnings reports from Australian companies largely met reduced expectations, but still affirmed the sharp deterioration in Australia's business environment. Japan's export-dependent stocks remain supported by the weaker yen, with the dollar holding above Y97, a three-month high. The yen has reversed course from its overbought levels as fears mount over the health of the Japanese economy. The dollar was last at Y97.73, against Y97.55 late in New York, while the euro was steady at $1.2731 versus $1.2733, and Y124.44 against Y124.22. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had been off nearly 200 points earlier in the session, ended the day down 80.05 points, or 1.09%, at 7270.89. Banks rose after U.S. officials unveiled details of the Treasury's plan to convert stakes to common stock, although the wider index remained anchored by a bleak housing report from The National Association of Realtors. 'I'm taking some heart in the fact the Dow did seem to find a level last night,' says Southern Cross Equities director Charlie Aitken. 'I may be a few days early, but I feel a bear rally brewing in the U.S.' Citigroup Inc. is closing in on an agreement to boost the federal government's stake in the company to as much as 40%, according to people familiar with the situation, the Wall Street Journal reported. A deal could be announced as soon as Thursday. In after-hours trade the stock was 2.4% higher. Dow Jones futures were showing a 47 point rise. Asian stock gains looked fragile at best though, with many seeing low trading volumes. 'Current gains don't look strong and (the market) may fall on profit-taking at any time,' said Mega Securities trader Stanley Chou. Japanese stocks were supported by buying from pension funds, said Tachibana Securities operating officer Kenichi Hirano. 'The market may continue to see a tug-of-war between foreigners selling and public funds buying,' he added. With General Motors earnings due later in global day and Japan industrial output data due tomorrow, 'buying beyond short-covering is unlikely.' Nissan was up 3.3%, Honda also 3.3% higher while Nippon Steel was up 3.7% and Advantest down 8.6% after it said late yesterday that it was expecting to book a loss for this fiscal year ending March. In other corporate news, Australia's largest telecommunications group Telstra Corp. beat forecasts on its first-half net profit, but cut guidance for the full year. Telstra was down 1.9%. Macquarie Group was down 5% at A$17.55 but recovered from a 10-year low of A$16.25, aided by Macquarie's statement that it doesn't plan to raise capital. Shares were earlier battered by concerns over the company's business model. The nation's largest property developer, Lend Lease Corp., and Westfield Group, its largest shopping mall owner, posted their expected net losses, while ANZ Group, Australia's fourth-largest bank, said it will probably cut its dividend by 25%. IAG, Australia's largest general insurer, could post only a modest profit on its half year. Lend Lease was down 2.2%, Westfield was 5.1% higher, IAG was down 2.3% and ANZ Group was down 2.6%. Volume was low on Hong Kong's Hang Seng index, with about half of blue chips higher, half down. Esprit, up 2.2% at HK$43.70, was the only index member to rise or fall more than 2%. In New Zealand, PGG Wrightson was up 9.7% after saying it has agreement with banks to refinance existing loans, while Air NZ was up 4.9% despite a lower first half, after saying it expects significant improvement in the second half. Nuplex, however, was down 9.6% after its poor first half result. In Taiwan, the tourism subindex was 1.8% higher on expectations of growing numbers of tourists from China after the arrival of a travel agent delegation led by China's Tourism Administration head yesterday. Ambassador Hotel was up 1.5%. Japanese government bonds were a little higher. The market was being pulled in two directions, caught between equity market gains and the gloomy economic outlook. Royal Bank of Scotland strategist John Richards said that 'although profit-taking pressure is likely to increase as the fiscal year-end approaches, it is unlikely to be strong enough to send yields to break through the 1.35% (level).' The 10-year JGB yield was down 1 basis point at 1.29%, and the lead futures contract was up 0.13 at 139.23 points. Oil futures were extending gains after U.S. gasoline inventories fell sharply, and oil stockpiles appeared close to following suit. April Nymex crude closed 6.4% higher at $42.50 a barrel in New York. The contract was at $42.77 in early Asian trade. Gold was little changed after an overnight selloff, last at $952.15 a troy ounce, up 5 cents from the New York close. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
