SINGAPORE: China, which set off the biggest spike in commodity prices in a generation, is now making deals that could prevent another surge in the coming decade by helping finance new production during the low ebb of the cycle.  While the deepening global recession has caused traders to focus on trying to pick a bottom in the current price collapse, analysts taking a longer view have already begun ringing alarm bells over the canceled investments and delayed projects that threaten to leave the world short of raw materials, once growth resumes.  Meanwhile China has committed as much as $55 billion over the past week in a series of deals to help cash-strapped producer nations or companies weather the collapse amounting to more than 60 percent in resource prices. That sum is almost identical to the expected drop in global capital spending among oil and natural gas companies this year, according to a Barclays Capital survey.  By investing through a downturn that veterans say has reinforced the feast-or-famine nature of commodities markets, China is helping head off another surge before it happens. 'Look at iron ore. In the past, BHP and Rio have increased output more incrementally,' said Mark Pervan, a senior commodity analyst at ANZ Bank, referring to BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, large mining companies. 'With support from a major customer which is also an owner, they might take a more aggressive approach to expansion and development during a downturn.' He said the Chinese did not want to see a repeat of the volatility and the extent of price rises of the past two to three years. 'This is a perfect time for them to be buying,' he said. Chinese investment abroad is nothing new, but most firms have been on hiatus for the past several years as prices soared. The broad Reuters-Jefferies CRB index of global commodities markets surged 50 percent in the year that ended in July 2008, the biggest spike since the early 1970s. But it has since fallen by more than half to a six-year low, spurring a renewed wave of Beijing-backed deal making.  A week ago the state-owned aluminum producer Chinalco unveiled a $19.5 billion investment in Rio Tinto for minority stakes in some of Rio's most prized assets, including a slice of the world's biggest copper mine, Escondida, in Chile. Days later, the state-owned trading house Minmetals agreed to buy the debt-laden Oz Minerals, of Australia, a top zinc mining company, for $1.7 billion.  China also closed a deal, which had stretched for months, to lend Russian oil companies $25 billion in return for supplies from eastern Siberia. China was completing a deal to extend a $10 billion line of credit to Petrobras, the state-owned oil company of Brazil, for future supplies.  Few people expect the investments to end there.  The Australian iron ore mining company Fortescue Metals Group said this week that it had held investment talks with a range of parties, including the Chinese sovereign wealth fund.  For the many commodity companies that have been forced to scale back or scrap investment plans because of illiquid credit markets or corporate distress, Chinese investment is a short-term lifeline, but one that comes with expectations of supply security and possibly price stability down the road. 'We have set ourselves up for big price rises once things recover. The first thing the mining companies did was to cut capital expenditure and slow output,' said Gerard Burg, an analyst at National Australia Bank. 'If the new owners take a more strategic view, we may see more spending through the trough, and supply can respond more quickly when the demand picture improves.' With the Chinese deals still fresh, it remains to be seen whether Beijing will be content pouring money into operations that may not turn a quick profit, just to be first in line for future output.  But there is a precedent that offers hope for consumers.  Four decades ago, it was the Japanese trading houses that set the tone for global investment, seeking out projects that would turn a profit but also meet Tokyo's demands for a guaranteed supply of the raw materials demanded by its then-booming economy.  A 50-50 alliance between BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi, the Japanese trading house, is the largest Australian coal mining company and exporter. A third of Rio's giant Robe River iron ore mine is owned by Mitsui, with Nippon Steel holding 10.5 percent and Sumitomo Metal Australia 3.5 percent.  The extra output from those operations may have been enough to blunt some of the price spikes until around 2003, when the emergence of China as a megaconsumer of industrial resources strained global supply.
