U.S. stocks tumbled to a three-month low, extending a global slump, as a record contraction in New York manufacturing spurred concern the government?s stimulus package won?t be enough to curb the deepening recession.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. lost more than 12 percent. Exxon Mobil Corp. was the biggest drag on the Standard &amp; Poor?s 500 Index as oil slid almost 7 percent. General Motors Corp., the largest U.S. carmaker, sank 13 percent as it took its case for more government support to the Treasury Department. Banks led declines in Europe and Asia on concern they may face ratings downgrades and more losses. The S&amp;P 500 retreated 4.6 percent to 789.17, dropping below 800 for the first time since November. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 297.81 points, or 3.8 percent, to 7,552.6, less than half a point above its 2008 bear-market low. The Russell 2000 Index decreased 4.3 percent. U.S. markets were closed for President?s Day yesterday, when shares in Asia and Europe fell. ?There?s a growing sense that no matter who?s in office, no matter how much they spend and on what, it?s going to be a long, painful process to get out of this situation and restore the economy to normalcy,? said Michael Shinnick, manager of the $100 million Wasatch-1st Source Long/Short Fund, which has returned 1 percent this year as the S&amp;P 500retreated almost 13 percent.  All 10 industry groups in the S&amp;P 500 declined at least 1.7 percent after a Federal Reserve report showed manufacturing in New York shrank in February at the fastest pace on record, signaling the recession is deepening. The Fed Bank of New York?s general economic index slid to minus 34.7, the lowest level since records began in 2001, from minus 22.2 percent in January.  Treasuries, Gold Gain  U.S. Treasury securities and gold advanced as investors sought protection against falling equity values. Newmont Mining Corp. led gold producers higher as the precious metal climbed to the highest price since July.  President Barack Obama signed into law a $787 billion plan that combines tax breaks and government spending meant to resuscitate the moribund U.S. economy.  U.S. stocks last week fell the most since November, with the S&amp;P 500 losing 4.8 percent, after Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner failed to convince investors that the administration?s bank rescue plan will  work.  Stocks in Europe and Asia tumbled today after Moody?s Investors Service said it might downgrade banks with units in Eastern Europe and the cost for South Korean banks to borrow dollars rose to a record. Thetwo regions? shares fell yesterday as Japan?s economy contracted the most since 1974, Britain was warned it faces the worst recession in almost three decades and a meeting of finance officials from the Group of Seven nations produced no solution to revive the global growth. ?Big Shocker?The Japanese economy, the world?s second-biggest, contracted at an annual 12.7 percent pace in the fourth quarter, according to figures from the Cabinet Office. The U.K.?s GDP probably will shrink 3.3  percent this year, instead of the 1.7 percent predicted in November, the Confederation of British Industry said yesterday. ?The market is responding to Japan?s surprise drop in GDP, which was a big shocker over the weekend,? Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, told Bloomberg Television.
