Wall Street took a tumble this morning as investors remained nervous about the economy's direction despite better-than-expected retail sales figures last month.  The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.3 percent, or 179 points. The Dow has been trading below 8000, a psychologically significant level for many Wall Street analysts, for three days. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.1 percent, or 17 points. The tech-heavy Nasdaq was down 1.1 percent, or 17 points. They were following overseas markets into the red. London's FTSE and the Dax in Germany were down 2.2 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Japan's Nikkei fell 3 percent.  In the United States, the financial sector was again the worst hit. Bank of America, J.P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup were all down more than 6 percent.  Investors have been cheered by congressional leaders reaching a deal yesterday for a nearly $800 billion stimulus package. But some analysts remain skeptical of how quickly the package will have an impact amid a deepening recession. And many traders are still waiting for details to a massive plan announced by the Treasury Department this week to rescue the financial sector.  Investors shrugged off signs that U.S. consumers were shopping again. Retail sales grew 1 percent in January, according to Commerce Department data, which was better than expected by analysts. Sales were down 9.7 percent compared with January 2008.  The number of initial jobless benefit claims fell by 8,000 to a seasonally adjusted 623,000 last week, according to Labor Department data. Analysts were expecting the claims to fall faster, and the figure remains historically high. 'The new data therefore reinforce the impression that the underlying pace of layoffs is continuing to rise rapidly, setting the scene for even bigger declines in payrolls,' Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics, said in a research note.  Crude oil prices continued to tumble today, falling 3 percent to about $35 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips were down 1.8 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively.
