(Updates indexes, adds comments from an analyst.) Stocks tumbled closer to their bear-market lows Tuesday, underscoring the renewed intensity of investors' jitters over the global economy's persistent weakness. Passage of a landmark stimulus package last week did not quell those concerns, and as trading resumed Tuesday, investors worried anew about the fate of the troubled U.S. auto industry and the ailing financial sector. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently down 233 points, or 3%, at 7617, within roughly sight of its late-November lows that have so far marked the bottom of the recent swoon. Its component General Motors was off 11%. Tuesday marks the deadline for GM and privately held Chrysler to submit recovery plans to the U.S. government. As the plans were being prepared, analysts and investors again fretted that one or more of the companies might veer into bankruptcy if all doesn't pan out as expected. Bank of America and J.P. Morgan Chase fell roughly 8%. For the broader market, traders and analysts increasingly fear that if major averages break to new lows, their downward momentum could mount, with the next trough not likely to be set until much more pain has been inflicted. 'Some people think it's bullish that we've been near the lows a couple times and not broken through yet, but I tend to think the other way,' said Chip Hanlon, president of Delta Global Advisors in Huntington Beach, Calif. 'The more times you test a low, the odds should go up that it's going to give way.' Other market indexes traded lower. The S&amp;P 500 was down 3.6%, hurt by declines in every sector including a 7% plunge in the financials. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 3.3%. 'If the Dow breaks below that 7552, a lot of people think there's got to be another leg downward,' said William Lefkowitz, chief derivatives strategist at vFinance Investments. Technical traders are likely poised with their fingers on sell buttons waiting for those levels to fall, Lefkowitz said. Fundamentally, 'nobody really is confident the government putting in these plans is going to stabilize or help the economy,' Lefkowitz said. 'You go to banks, go to autos and you don't really know what government is doing.' 'The bank details are not coming out for another couple weeks. How long do we have to wait? How bad does it have to get before they actually do something?' The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a gauge of investor anxiety, surged 17% to climb back above the 50 mark. The U.S. losses come on the heels of big declines overseas. Asian stocks suffered losses Tuesday, with financial stocks such as Industrial Bank of Korea and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group sliding on fear the global economic crisis is deepening and a recovery could take longer than previously expected. Japan's Nikkei 225 slid by 1.4%, while the Shanghai Composite fell 2.9%. Fears about the health of banks also pulled markets lower in Europe after the credit-ratings agency Moody's Investors Service said that it may downgrade the ratings of lenders with exposure to eastern Europe. Moody's said that faltering economic conditions in eastern Europe will continue to hit the asset quality and liquidity positions of local subsidiaries of major Western banks, which could spill over to their corporate parents in Austria, Italy, France, Belgium, Germany and Sweden. The FTSE 100 was down by about 3.2% in recent trading. Germany's Xetra DAX was down by 3.6%. Investors looking for a safe haven pushed gold prices to a seven-month high, with the yellow metal climbing to nearly $968 an ounce. Treasury prices also jumped. The 10-year note surged by 1-22/32, putting its yield at 2.698%. Swap spreads, a gauge of credit risks, widened across the board. The cost to protect defaults from high-yielding, high-risk European firms climbed. Commodities prices sank amid the deepening concern about the effects of the global economic downturn. Copper dropped to a two-week low and oil futures were down by roughly $2.40, at around $35 a barrel. Wal-Mart Stores said its fourth-quarter net income declined 7.4%. The retailer's shares rose 3%, making it the only stock to rise among the Dow industrials. (Robert Curran contributed to this story.) -Contact: 201-938-5400 
