A delay in the Obama administration's unveiling of its latest bank-rescue plan left the stock market on pause as well on Monday. Major indexes edged higher after a weak start as investors awaited details of an effort that will likely entail coordinated effort between the Treasury Department and the private sector to remove distressed credit securities from banks' balance sheets. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up around 12 points in recent trading, sliding to roughly 8293. American Express and Home Depot were down by about 1.3% and 2.1%, respectively, while General Electric was nearly 10%. The S&amp;P 500 was up 0.4%, while the Nasdaq Composite Index was up 0.2%. The new bank plan was originally expected to be unveiled on Monday, but officials decided over the weekend to hold off so they could focus on parallel efforts to get a fiscal stimulus bill through Congress including a mix of tax cuts and federal spending aimed at bolstering employment and consumption. 'Certainly, these things won't cure all the economy's ills in 24 hours, but they should begin to restore some confidence,' said economist Peter Cardillo, of Avalon Partners. He said that the market may be on the cusp of a sustained rally, after suffering an early-year slide that factored in expectations of bad economic news to come. But there are still many skeptics of that rosy view throughout Wall Street. Some investors took cash off the table Monday on the heels of solid market gains last week, snapping a four-week losing streak. Participants looked past a dismal employment report to passage of the economic stimulus plan and the rollout of the bank rescue. The Senate is expected to vote on ending debate on the stimulus on Monday, with a possible vote on the compromise measure Tuesday. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is also expected to announce Tuesday that the government will become a partner with the private sector to purchase banks' troubled assets. The plan also includes programs designed to jumpstart consumer lending and assist struggling homeowners. The administration's plans have evolved over the past several weeks as it has considered and discarded a host of ideas, with financial markets anxiously awaiting details. As investors awaited the plan, the dollar was weaker against major rivals and U.S. Treasury prices declined. The two-year note fell 1/32 to yield 1%. The benchmark 10-year Treasury lost 9/32, sending its yield up to 3.01%. Financial stocks, which have set the tone for the broader stock market in recent weeks, were mixed. Bank of America climbed 12%, but Morgan Stanley fell 3%. Barclays shares were up 12% after it said it wouldn't turn to the British government for more capital. Hartford Financial Services shares gained more than 21% after severe losses last week; other life insurers such as Lincoln National Group, up 9%, and Genworth Financial, up 15%, joined in the rally. Elsewhere, General Motors shares were flat after The Wall Street Journal reported the company is in talks to take back large portions of Delphi Corp. to get more U.S. bailout funds. And Nissan Motor shares lost 3.2% after it said it was cutting 20,000 jobs after reporting a $904 million quarterly loss. Asian stock markets finished mixed. Japan's Nikkei shed 1.3% on a stronger yen. Europe stocks were generally flat; the U.K.'s FTSE 100 was up 0.2%. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
