Financials, along with energy and mining stocks, greased a slide in Canadian shares Tuesday, as fresh jitters about deteriorating credit in East Europe and a worse-than-expected slump in Japan's economy led global stock markets sharply lower.Adding to the gloom in the U.S. and Canada were concerns about possible bankruptcy for General Motors Corp. and Chrysler, which are expected to submit survival plans to the Treasury after the close of markets. U.S. President Barack Obama, meanwhile, is due to visit Ottawa on Thursday.In Toronto, the benchmark S&amp;P/TSX fell 317 points, or 3.6%, to end at 8,360, adding to last week's more than 3% decline.Declining stocks outpaced gainers by 1,090 to 511, while 254 issues were unchanged.On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 297 points, or 3.8%, to end at 7,552, weighed down by Citigroup Inc. , Bank of America and J.P. Morgan Chase , all off more than 12%.Concerns were sparked Monday after ratings agency Moody's warned about Western European banks' exposure to their Eastern neighbors. See full story. On the TSX, the financial sector fell more than 6%, with Manulife Financial down 11%, while Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Montreal were both down more than 5%.Meanwhile, some analysts noted that weakness has now spread to different sectors of Canadian equities.'While the deep drop in U.S. financials also had an important echo in Toronto [last week], the real weak spot ... was tech,' said BMO Capital analyst Doug Porter in a note. 'That undercut what had been the strong point for the Canadian market so far in 2009,' he said.Weighing on the benchmark index in Toronto, shares of Research In Motion slumped nearly 8% after the maker of the BlackBerry device said it's recruiting 3,000 new workers to keep up with demand, according to AFP.The energy sector slumped 4%, with Suncor Energy off more than 7%, and Talisman Energy down nearly 5%. Crude-oil futures also slumped amid global economic concerns. See Futures Movers. Mining shares also weighed, with the sector off more than 4%. Gold prices rallied on safe-haven flows, but more growth-related metals such as copper slumped. See Metals Stocks.Shares of Teck Cominco fell nearly 11% and Uranium One was off 5%, while Goldcorp rose 3%.
