John Rice, vice chairman of General Electric Co., and president and chief executive of GE Infrastructure, speaks during a news conference in New Delhi February 20, 2007. REUTERS/Vijay Mathur  BOSTON (Reuters) - Shares of General Electric Co soared more than 15 percent on Monday, as investors bid up shares of financial companies on hopes that a U.S. rescue plan for the sector would spare shareholders.  The U.S. conglomerate's finance business has been hard hit over the past year by the credit crunch and has been the major drag on the company's earnings.  'Investors could be hoping that the worst of this is behind us, if Treasury comes up with a plan that will work,' said Matt Collins, capital goods analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is expected to unveil the Obama administration's bank rescue plan on Tuesday.  GE's gains came on a day when the KBW bank index was up 4.4 percent and Bank of America Corp advanced 13 percent. Fellow industrial Textron Inc , which has also had troubles with its finance arm, was up 7.8 percent.  GE shares rose $1.73 to $12.83 on the New York Stock Exchange. They have fallen about 68 percent over the past year, a far deeper drop than the 32 percent slide of the Dow Jones industrial average and the 35 percent fall of the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index .  (Reporting by Scott Malone; editing by Gunna Dickson)   2009 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Reuters content is the intellectual property of Thomson Reuters or its third party content providers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 'Reuters' and the Reuters Logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. For additional information on other Reuters media services please visit http://about.reuters.com/media/.  
