Fiduciary duty; fiduciary duty-- boring lawyer talk? Not at all-- this legal concept is central to our process of bringing the bankster criminals to justice. Check out  www.forbes.com  "A Breach of Fiduciary Duty At Bank of America?" and you'll quickly learn why.      The Forbes author makes the key point that Bank of America's $50 billion purchase of Merrill Lynch involved seven key "decision points" where BofA's Board and management arguably failed to fulfill fiduciary duties to their own shareholders. Here's a quick summary:      (1) Lack of adequate due diligence prior to September 15, 2008. BofA agreed to the merger in less than 48 hours-- no legitimate due diligence process could possibly have been carried out in this time frame.   (2) Lack of ongoing monitoring during the period September 15 to December 5, 2008. Merrill Lynch was collapsing; gigantic new exposures were coming to light every day; BofA had a fiduciary duty to monitor these risky events and Merrill's low--quality MBS portfolio. Failure to monitor equals breach.   (3) December 5, 2008-- lack of timely disclosure to shareholders. The shareholder vote at BofA occurred on this day, but the shareholders weren't given updated financial information that would have allowed for an informed vote.   (4) Failure to exercise shareholder protection provisions (material adverse change clause in merger agreement) prior to January 1, 2009.   (5) Changing deal terms from December 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. BofA required TARP funds to close the deal; these funds were needed because of Merrill Lynch's deteriorating financial condition-- the inclusion of TARP funding created a new class of preferred shareholders, to the detriment of common shareholders. No timely reporting to shareholders.   (6) On December 8, 2008, Merrill Lynch pulled $4 billion in bonuses out of the company, with BofA's knowledge and consent. This did not put the interests of BofA shareholders first-- allowing this money to be ripped out meant that BofA shareholders were buying a company with $4 billion less in financial strength.   (7) January 16, 2009-- financial disclosure to shareholders was delayed re Merrill Lynch's $15.3 billion loss. The market responded by reducing BofA's market value by 50% in a single day. This catastrophe information should have been disclosed to shareholders as soon as it was known.       http://www.breakthematrix.com/node/33790 
