Rebound forecast in some grain markets   Steep drop in prices could limit plantings and cut supply      Reuters      Saturday, October 25, 2008      LONDON - World demand for grain should prove resilient in the face  of a global recession and a sharp drop in prices could curb  plantings and cut supply, opening the door to a rebound in some  markets, an analyst says.      The cost of corn has halved in the last few months and wheat has  fallen even more steeply, taking some of the heat out of food price  inflation, although there may be a time lag before the trend is  fully reflected on the supermarket shelf.      &amp;quot;I think the current sharp fall in prices is going to have a pretty  quick response in terms of the supply side,&amp;quot; said Sudakshina  Unnikrishnan at Barclays Capital in London.      &amp;quot;I don&amp;#039;t think current prices, especially the lows we have seen  over the last couple of weeks, are really sustainable. Whenever a  rally does take place it is going to be pretty strong,&amp;quot; she  added.      Corn prices on the Chicago Board of Trade fell as low as $3.71 a  bushel on the front month last week, less than half a peak of $7.65  set in June.      Rising costs of inputs, particularly fertilizers, could dissuade  farmers from planting grains with margins squeezed by the drop in  prices.      &amp;quot;The potential loser could be corn. It is the most fertilizer  intensive among the grains,&amp;quot; Unnikrishnan said.      Art Bunting, who farms about 2,000 acres around Dwight, Ill., with  his two brothers, said the drop in prices was likely to have an  impact on planting decisions.      &amp;quot;We are just barely at cost of production right now on some of this  corn. With the high inputs, it is going to get expensive to put  corn in,&amp;quot; he said.      CBOT wheat prices have also fallen steeply in the last few weeks,  dipping to $4.96 a bushel on the front month on Friday, sharply  below a peak of $13.34 in February.      &amp;quot;There might be a possibility that farmers plant less wheat,  because they currently do face pressure on their margin outlook,  driven by the extreme price decreases we have seen over the last  four or five weeks,&amp;quot; said Dirk Jan Kennes, an analyst with Rabobank  in Utrecht, the Netherlands.      Weaker Chinese demand has helped to drive sharp falls in the prices  of some commodities, particularly industrial metals, but the  outlook is much more robust for grains.      Meat demand is growing in China, despite an economic slowdown,  resulting in more demand for feed grains such as corn.      &amp;quot;I don&amp;#039;t see any impact for Chinese grain demand (from the global  financial crisis),&amp;quot; said He Xuegong, chief analyst with Beijing  Orient Agribusiness Consultant Ltd.      &amp;quot;No matter whether China&amp;#039;s economy grew by single digit of faster  growth, meat consumption is still growing, some meat products, like  beef, are still in short supply,&amp;quot; he said.      Stock rebuilding in China should also help maintain demand.      &amp;quot;One of the things that may happen as a result of lower prices is  that the (Chinese) government may replenish some of their grain  stocks,&amp;quot; said Brady Sidwell, an analyst with Rabobank in Hong  Kong.      Some consumers, particularly in developing countries, may turn away  from meat as the economic crisis bites.      James Dunsterville, an analyst at Geneva-based Agrinews, said an  economic slowdown may be more bearish for demand for corn than  wheat, which is less reliant on demand from the feed sector.      &amp;quot;Food is the last thing a family deprives itself of but the  housewife will go for pasta and bread before she goes for meat,&amp;quot; he  said.
