SYDNEY, Oct 9 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar bounced from multi-year lows against the U.S. currency and Japanese yen on Thursday, but was likely to stay under pressure as worries about a global recession keep investors away from riskier assets.    * The Aussie dollar had plunged on Wednesday as stock markets dived and Japanese investors dumped Aussie/yen to repatriate funds to cover losses at home.    * Early Thursday, the Aussie had edged up to $0.6700, from a five-year low of $0.6436 struck offshore. It has lost over 15 percent this week as investors cut exposures to commodity and higher-yielding currencies.    * Against the yen, the Aussie inched up to 66.69 yen, having collapsed to a six-year low of 63.65 yen offshore. Worries about the global slowdown led investors to unwind leveraged carry trades aggressively, benefiting the yen across the board.    * Stock markets shrugged off a coordinated central bank rate cut on mounting concerns that the ongoing credit market turmoil would eventually lead the global economy to a sharp slowdown.    * Central banks in the United States, the euro zone, Britain, Switzerland, Canada and Sweden all lowered official rates by half a percentage point to help ease some of the credit strains that are threatening economic activity.    * The International Monetary Fund, in its bleakest forecast in years, said on Wednesday the world economy was set for a major downturn with the United States and Europe either in or on the brink of recession.    * It also expected the financial turmoil to extract a heavy economic toll as investors wrestle with a crisis of confidence and a credit crunch..    * The Aussie will also remain subdued on strong expectations of a further rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) in coming months as it seeks to cushion the economy from the credit crunch.    * Sluggish economic data could add to the case for further cuts. Australian jobs data for September is at 11:30 a.m. (0030 GMT), with a Reuters poll forecast centring on no change in employment and the unemployment rate rising to 4.3 percent.    * Australian bill futures gained, reflecting investors&amp;#039; pricing of a 50 basis points cut by the RBA in November. Earlier this weeek, the central bank stunned markets by lowering the cash rate by 100 basis points to 6 percent.    * Australian bond futures were lower, pausing from a hefty rally in the previous few days. Three-year Australian bond futures fell 0.035 points to 95.58, while the 10-year bond contract shed 0.095 points to 94.955.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Wayne Cole)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
