SYDNEY, Oct 1 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar steadied on Wednesday, after hitting fresh two-week lows in offshore trade against a rebounding U.S. currency on optimism a U.S. financial bailout plan would be revived.    * The Aussie climbed to 84.27 yen, from 83.62 yen late here on Tuesday, as higher stock markets encouraged investors to return to leveraged carry trades.    * Hopes of a quick revival of the rescue deal for the battered U.S. financial sector, along with speculation of coordinated interest rate cuts by global central banks, sent stocks on Wall Street sharply higher and supported the U.S. dollar.    * By 9:30 a.m., the Aussie was at $0.7940 against the U.S. dollar, falling from $0.8013 by late here on Tuesday and off a two-week low of $0.7859 struck offshore.    * The Aussie was also weighed down by increased market talk of an aggressive rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) next week.    * The Aussie fell sharply on Tuesday as investors dumped higher-yielding currencies and riskier assets as a rush to safety gathered pace after U.S. lawmakers rejected the $700 billion bailout package.    * Safe-haven inflows took a breather on Wednesday. As a result, Australian bond futures gave up some of the hefty gains made in the previous day. Three-year Australian bond futures  fell 0.120 points to 94.815, while the 10-year bond contract shed 0.14 points to 94.47.    * Bill futures, however, extended gains as investors were convinced the RBA would have to cut rates to counter the tightening in the interbank market.    * Investors are pricing in a 50 basis point rate cut by the RBA, to follow a 25 basis point cut to 7.0 percent in September. That reduction was the first in seven years.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
