SYDNEY, Oct 27 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar traded close to record lows against the yen and near 5- year lows on the U.S. dollar on Monday as fears of a looming global recession saw investors stay away from higher-yielding currencies.    * The yen surged across the board, trading near 13-year highs against the U.S. dollar, as safe-haven inflows gathered momentum. Only fears of forex intervention from the Japanese authorities prevented sharper gains.    * Speculation of a coordinated intervention by major global central banks to drive down the resurgent yen continued. There is also growing talk that the U.S. Federal Reserve might cut interest rates again to support the flagging economy.    * By 9:20 a.m. (2220 GMT), the Aussie was at $0.6133 against the U.S. dollar, having fallen to $0.6055 in offshore trade, its lowest since April 2003. It ended local trade on Friday at $0.6510.    * The Aussie was at 56.41 yen, having fallen to 55.11 yen  in offshore trade, its lowest since it was floated in 1983. The fall brought the Aussie&amp;#039;s losses against the Japanese currency in the last three months to 85 percent.    * Commodities were also weak, hurting the Aussie further. Australia is a major exporter of resources so recent steep falls in commodity prices augur ill for the economy, particularly as demand in Asia, notably China, is slowing.    * Pessimism about global economic growth continued to weigh down on investors. The UK economy shrank 0.5 percent in the third-quarter while Europe&amp;#039;s economy also looks to be headed into recession, backing a view that the downturn in the United States was adversely impacting other major economies.    * Emerging economies were also struggling with the broader impact of the global credit crunch. The International Monetary Fund and Ukraine said on Sunday they had reached an agreement for a $16.6 billion loan package.    * Australian bill futures rose as investors continued to price aggressive rate cuts by Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) to cushion the economy from the market turmoil. Markets are pricing in a 50 basis point cut next month, following the RBA&amp;#039;s shock 100 basis point reduction earlier this month.    * Three-year bond futures were indicated 0.045 points lower at 95.70, while the 10-year futures contract shed 0.095 points to 94.98.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Jonathan Standing)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
