LONDON, Oct 28 (Reuters) - The yen retreated from recent 13-year highs against the dollar on Tuesday as stock markets rebounded and risk aversion ebbed, with the possibility of official intervention also weighing on the currency.    European shares rose 3.8 percent as investors eased up on unloading riskier positions. Those gains followed a 6.4 percent jump in Japan&amp;#039;s Nikkei share average from a 26-year low as investor bets on falling share prices were restricted.    In tandem with equity gains the yen dropped across the board, particularly against currencies such as the euro and the high-yielding Australian dollar which have taken a battering recently as investors&amp;#039; wariness of risk reached extreme levels.    &amp;#039;The share gains have helped some of the removal of negative sentiment in forex markets,&amp;#039; Investec economist David Page said.    &amp;#039;This has led to some retracement in the yen against the dollar as well as a wider basket of currencies&amp;#039;.    The yen was further pressured by a Kyodo News Agency report that the Bank of Japan is set to cut Japan&amp;#039;s economic growth estimate for the 2008/09 fiscal year to 0.3 percent from the current 1.2 percent. See.    At 1230 GMT, the dollar was up 2.7 percent against the yen  at 95.35, moving away from a 13-year low of 90.90 yen struck on Friday, according to Reuters data.    The euro was up 3.3 percent at 119.72 yen. The euro struck a 6-1/2 year low of 113.61 yen on Monday.    The single currency also rose 0.7 percent against the dollar  to $1.2549. Among the higher yielding currencies that have been pummelled recently, the pound rose 1.2 percent to $1.5721 and the Australian dollar jumped 3.8 percent to $0.6251.    The Reserve Bank of Australia intervened in Asian trade for a third day to prop up the Australian currency, which has lost more than 35 percent against the U.S. dollar since peaking in July.    MORE YEN GAINS ON THE CARDS    The respite for stock markets and the yen&amp;#039;s fall, however, were seen as a temporary pause from recent price action as the spectre of a prolonged global recession was expected to keep investors in risk-averse mode.    &amp;#039;There&amp;#039;s no sense that the underlying trend of dollar strength and yen strength is set to change,&amp;#039; said Daragh Maher, deputy head of Calyon global foreign exchange research in London.    Traders said the yen is likely to test a 13-year peak against the dollar sooner or later if Japanese investors, who still have lots of overseas assets, decide to dump them and repatriate their proceeds.    Distressed stock market prices and the yen&amp;#039;s rise succeeded in getting Group of Seven economic powers to warn against excessive yen volatility on Monday. This was seen as opening the way for central banks to intervene if necessary.    But this looked less likely after French Economy Minister Christine Lagarde said on Monday any intervention on the yen would be a purely Bank of Japan undertaking, a move which many believe would be ineffective.    &amp;#039;Until I actually see the Bank of Japan intervene then I am afraid the trend is intact and I don&amp;#039;t see them in until we test their resolve (which I think we will at 90.00) at some point,&amp;#039; IDEAGlobal senior strategist Maurice Pomery said in a note to clients.    Meanwhile, analysts believe attention will soon turn back to the prospest that global central banks will again get together to cut interest rates in a bid to stave off a deep global recession.    Bank of England Deputy Governor John Gieve said on Tuesday that international authorities need to be ready to act again if necessary.    Meanwhile, the U.S. Federal Reserve is seen cutting rates at its two-day meeting starting on Tuesday, while European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet on Monday said the bank could cut rates at its policy meeting next week.    (Reporting by Jessica Mortimer; editing by Stephen Nisbet) Keywords: MARKETS FOREX    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com    vjt    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
