SYDNEY, Oct 29 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar extended gains on Wednesday, pulling away from recent multi-year lows, lifted by higher stock markets which helped revive appetite for higher-yielding currencies.    * Wall Street stocks rose more than 10 percent on Tuesday, the second-biggest ever points gain for the Dow and the S&amp;amp;amp;P index, helping demand for leveraged carry trades.    * The yen also suffered its biggest daily fall against the U.S. dollar since 1974 on Tuesday after a newspaper report said the Bank of Japan was mulling an interest rate cut to support its sagging economy.    * A cut would increase rate differentials between Japan and other countries like Australia and could curb the yen&amp;#039;s recent surge.    * Against the yen, the Aussie rallied to 64.20 yen from 57.41 yen late here on Tuesday. The Aussie hit its lowest level since being floated, falling to 55.11 yen late last week.    * By 9:25 a.m. (2225 GMT), the local currency rose to $0.6493 from $0.6125 late here on Tuesday, when it touched a five-and-a-half year low at $0.6007. It was supported at lower levels by intervention by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA).    * The Aussie was still down over 30 percent since peaking in July, after it was subject to a savage sell-off by investors unwinding carry trades and cutting back exposure to stocks and commodities.    * Investor confidence remained brittle given a raft of weak economic data from the United States. U.S. consumer confidence plunged to a record low in October amid signs that the economy was sliding into a deep recession and pulling the rest of the world down with it.    * The U.S. Federal Reserve started a two-day policy meeting on Tuesday, and is expected to announce on Wednesday a rate cut of at least 50 basis points in the 1.5 percent funds rate.    * Australian bill futures are also pricing in 100 basis points of rate cuts by the RBA before the year end as the central bank steps in to cushion the economy from the adverse impact of the global credit crunch.    * Australian bond futures were mixed, with the shorter end hurt by easing safe-haven inflows. Three-year bond futures  eased 0.04 points to 95.530, while the 10-year futures contract added 0.055 points to 94.760.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
