SYDNEY, Oct 14 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar held firm on Tuesday, after rebounding to near 70 U.S. cents offshore, as official action worldwide to combat the global credit crisis triggered a huge rally across equity markets.    * Local media reported the Australian government was planning a A$5 billion stimulus package to cushion the economy from the credit crunch, just days after Canberra offered guarantees on the country&amp;#039;s A$600-A$700 billion in deposits. The stimulus package is likely to be announced later on Tuesday.    * In the United States, authorities were meeting to finalise details of a government plan to buy stakes in troubled commercial banks as leaders globally sought to stem the impact from the worst financial crisis in decades.    * In yet another effort to get frozen credit markets started, the U.S. Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, Bank of England and Swiss National Bank said they would provide commercial banks with as much U.S. dollar funds as they needed at fixed rates.    * By 9:20 a.m. the Aussie rose to $0.6996 against the U.S. dollar, up from $0.6605 late here on Monday and well off a 5- year low of $0.6330 struck late last week.    * Last week, the currency posted its biggest weekly decline since being floated in 1983, as a steadily deteriorating outlook for the global economy forced investors to aggressively unwind leveraged carry trades and positions in riskier assets.    * But with governments and central banks globally working to bail out banks and financial institutions, stocks on Wall Street enjoyed one of their best days ever on Monday with the Dow Jones industrial average rocketing up 11 percent.    * That encouraged investors to return to carry trades and the Aussie jumped to 71.38 yen from 66 yen late here on Monday.    * Domestic data on Tuesday includes a private survey of business conditions. The National Australia Bank&amp;#039;s index for September will be released at 11:30 a.m. (0030 GMT) and business conditions are likely to be subdued given the credit crunch and soft domestic demand.    * Australian bond futures were lower, especially at the shorter end, extending the previous day&amp;#039;s losses, as stocks rallied and safe-haven inflows eased.    * With markets showing some early signs of stability, investors also pared back expectations of a steep rate cut by the Reserve Bank of Australia next month.    * Three-year Australian bond futures lost 0.11 points to 95.115, while the 10-year bond contract shed 0.005 points to 94.435.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
