 Little snipit from market watch for the MIS-informed.....      Dollar hits one-year high vs. euro; ECB leaves rates unchangedFont size: A   A   A10:56 AM ET 10/2/08   Marketwatch   NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- The dollar hit a one-year high against the European Union&amp;#039;s single currency Thursday, as the European Central Bank opted to leave euro-zone interest rates unchanged.      Economists had overwhelmingly expected the ECB to leave its key lending rate unchanged at 4.25%. See full story.      In the U.S., the Senate&amp;#039;s passage Wednesday of its version of the $700 billion bank-bailout proposal provided some support, said strategists at Lloyds TSB. Attention now turns to the House of Representatives, which unexpectedly rejected a similar proposal earlier this week. See full story.      Adding further grist for currency traders, the Labor Department reported jobless claims remained at seven-year highs, with weekly filings for benefits rising 1,000 to 497,000 for the week ended Sept. 27. Read Economic Report.      Credit markets, however, have factored in the possibility of a quarter-point cut in interest rates in response to a rapidly deteriorating economic outlook and rising financial turmoil.       Moreover, some economists say the economic picture and mounting turmoil have effectively capped inflationary threats, leaving ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet room to emphasize downside economic risks and to signal an eventual easing of interest rates in coming months.      &amp;amp;quot;Bad news in financial markets and mounting evidence of a deep economic downturn should convince Trichet to adopt a more dovish tone,&amp;amp;quot; wrote strategists at UniCredit MIB.       Expectations for a softer tone have kept pressure on the euro, analysts said, which traded at a one-year low of $1.3791 against the dollar before trimming losses to change hands at $1.3808 in recent action.      The single currency traded around $1.4021 in North American activity late Wednesday.      The German yield curve has steepened in anticipation of a softer tone from Trichet, with the spread between two- and 10-year yields near 58 basis points. A lack of a change in rhetoric could lead to flattening, the UniCredit strategists said.      And not all economists expect Trichet to change his tune. With inflation still running well above the ECB&amp;#039;s 2% annual target, policy makers might maintain a hard line amid fears price pressures will feed through to the wage-setting process.      The demand by influential German trade union IG Metall for an 8% wage hike is likely to reinforce the Governing Council&amp;#039;s worries about such &amp;amp;quot;second-round effects,&amp;amp;quot; said Marcel Theliant, an economist at Credit Suisse in Zurich, who expects the ECB to begin cutting rates next year.       Worries over the European banking sector -- and whether government should get involved -- have also cast a shadow over the euro in recent sessions, analysts said.       The dollar index , which measures the U.S. unit against a trade-weighted basket of six major currencies, rose to 80.47 from 79.353 late Wednesday.       Meanwhile, The British pound lost ground, falling to $1.7617 from $1.7693.       British house prices dropped a 1.7% on a monthly basis in September, for a record annual decline of 12.4% as tight credit conditions and an unsettled economic picture took a toll, mortgage lender Nationwide said Thursday. See full story.      The dollar slipped against the Japanese currency to trade at 105.48 yen, down from 105.74 yen. 
