TOKYO, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The dollar held near a 16-month high against a basket of currencies on Tuesday, benefiting from worries over a deterioration in the global economy.    The U.S. currency edged up as traders cited ongoing demand from banks picking up dollars for their funding needs, as well as some speculation that market players needed to acquire dollars to settle credit derivatives tied to the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers.    The dollar got a boost from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke&amp;#039;s testimony to Congress on Monday endorsing more government spending to stimulate the U.S. economy.    A bleak outlook on the global economy and expectations for more monetary easing worldwide have hurt currencies such as the euro, with the European Central Bank seen having more scope for aggressive rate cuts.    By contrast, the Fed is not expected to cut rates much more from the already low 1.5 percent.    Tight credit conditions and slumping stock markets had helped bolster demand for the dollar as a save-haven currency, along with the yen as market players have dumped highly leveraged carry trades and positions across markets.    &amp;#039;Behind the dollar&amp;#039;s strength there is still a desire among market players to boost cash holdings in the U.S. currency due to lingering concerns about counterparty risks,&amp;#039; said Masaki Fukui, a senior market economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank.    &amp;#039;The strength in the dollar could persist until the end of the year,&amp;#039; Fukui said.    The dollar index, which measures the U.S. currency&amp;#039;s value against a basket of six currencies, edged up 0.1 percent to 83.07  and near a 16-month high of 83.23 on Monday.    The euro eased 0.2 percent to $1.3316, slipping from an earlier high of $1.3358, and was likely to be weighed down by deteriorating economic conditions in the euro zone and concerns about European banks&amp;#039; health, traders said.    Some traders were wary of a deeper drop in the euro, as the market seemed ready to test lows of $1.3258 and 132.15 yen.    The dollar fell 0.3 percent against the yen to 101.60 yen,  slipping from an earlier high of 102.16 yen, with traders expecting the pair to stay in a 101.50-102.50 yen band on Tuesday.    As financial markets regain some stability, investors&amp;#039; focus is shifting from fears of the worst of the credit crisis to economic fundamentals and monetary policy, traders said.    Bernanke said the economy was expected to be weak for several quarters and there was some risk of a protracted slowdown. [ID:nN20254868]    Fed policymakers meet next Tuesday and Wednesday, and economists and investors widely expect another rate cut.    The yen climbed against the euro and the Australian dollar as traders cited profit-taking pulling the pairs lower. Traders also said the yen&amp;#039;s gains were due to Japanese investors selling foreign assets and repatriating funds.    The euro fell 0.5 percent to 135.26 yen.    The Aussie extended losses, falling 2.2 percent against the yen on expectations for more rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of Australia, as well as profit-taking, traders said.    RBA minutes from its meeting earlier this month indicated there was more room for rate cuts, though not as aggressive as this month&amp;#039;s 100 basis point cut.    &amp;#039;The correlation between stock gains and the strength in emerging or resource currencies is less clear-cut, suggesting the market sees the current improvement in sentiment as just a temporary correction to excessive risk aversion during the panic phase of the credit crisis,&amp;#039; said a senior dealer at a Japanese trading firm.    The yen will likely stay firm as expected global rate cuts shrink yield advantages and prevent high-yield pairs from rebounding, keeping carry trades out of favour, he said.    (Additional reporting by Rika Otsuka; Editing by Michael Watson)    .    lw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
