TOKYO, Oct 7 (Reuters) - The yen edged up against the dollar and the euro but slipped against higher-yielding currencies on Tuesday, as investors anticipated a coordinated global response to the credit crisis.    The yen dipped against the Australian and New Zealand dollars as short-term speculators booked profits on views the previous day&amp;#039;s surge in the Japanese currency was exaggerated. Worries that the financial crisis is spreading from the United States to the rest of the world and damaging the global economy sparked a sharp global stock sell-off on Monday, prompting investors to dump risky positions.    That largely benefited the safe-haven yen. On Monday, the yen posted its biggest one-day rise against the dollar since the 1998 massive unwinding of carry trades, while surging against higher-yielding currencies such as the Australian and New Zealand dollars.    But on Tuesday, market players hesitated to chase the yen further, thinking global financial authorities are likely to take further measures to help restore confidence in financial markets and ease worries over the banking sector.    &amp;#039;Investors believe global central banks could do anything,&amp;#039; said Tsutomu Soma, senior manager of foreign assets at Okasan Securities.    &amp;#039;The next step could be coordinated interest rate cuts, interventions to the foreign exchange market or more fund injections to money markets. Who knows,&amp;#039; Soma said.    The dollar dipped 0.4 percent against the Japanese currency to 101.44 yen, edging towards a six-month low of 100.22 yen hit on trading platform EBS the previous day.    The European single currency edged up 0.2 percent to $1.3531 . The euro struck a 13-month trough of $1.3444 on EBS on Monday, hit hard by a decision by leaders of Europe&amp;#039;s four biggest economies against a coordinated bailout plan.    The euro slipped 0.2 percent to 137.24 yen.    Tokyo&amp;#039;s Nikkei share average fell below the psychologically important 10,000 level for the first time since December 2003, further cooling investor risk appetite.    But the Australian dollar rose to 73.28 yen, rebounding from a five-year lows hit near 70 yen on Monday.    The market eyed a rate verdict from the Reserve Bank of Australia later in the day as the central bank is expected to cut interest rates by an aggressive 50 basis points to 6.5 percent this time.    The Bank of Japan will conclude its two-day policy meeting later in the day. The central bank is widely seen leaving the overnight all rate unchanged at 0.5 percent at the meeting.    (Editing by Sophie Hardach)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
