       What to Do When Your Fancy ETF Goes R.I.P. After a Long Boom,  A Bust Is Inevitable;  What to Watch For August 2, 2008; Page B1 Sooner or later, Wall Street turns every good idea into a bad one.  The exchange-traded fund was a good idea back in 1993: Create index funds that hold every security in a market worth owning, make the funds tradable like a stock, and keep costs and taxes low.  But here we are in 2008, and ETFs (plus their siblings, exchange-traded notes) are becoming a bad idea. With nearly 800 of the things, the proliferation has become a plague. Many ETFs are so overspecialized that they make a pediatric endocrinologist seem like a family doctor who makes house calls. One invests only in companies that get a large portion of their revenue from selling products to Wal-Mart Stores; another holds shares in outfits based in the Pacific (but not in Japan!) that pay high dividends; one owns nothing but ophthalmology stocks. There isn&amp;#039;t yet an ETF that seeks to earn three times the inverse of the daily return of the Cuban peso, but the year is barely half-over.   According to indexuniverse.com, 204 ETFs or ETNs have total net assets of less than $10 million apiece, and 369 have under $50 million in assets. That is troubling, since a fund smaller than $50 million probably loses money for the firm that sponsors it.    In other words, nearly half of all ETFs are too small to survive. The question is not whether, but when, most of them will fail.   To shut down, an ETF can liquidate, selling its portfolio and giving investors their money back at net asset value. (That can give you a tax headache, since you may get a capital gain you could otherwise have deferred.) Or the fund could merge with another, typically larger, ETF. Within three days, your brokerage account should have the cash proceeds from liquidation -- or, in the case of a merger, an equivalent dollar amount of shares in another ETF.  So far this year, 25 ETFs have shut down. All distributed their full net asset value to shareholders without any glitches (or commission charges).   Most insiders pooh-pooh the risk that anything could go wrong when ETFs close -- an attitude a little too reminiscent, for my taste, of the bland reassurances Wall Street used to give about auction-rate securities.   I did find one person who was candid. Nicholas Gerber, head of the Ameristock funds, closed five small ETFs in June (triggering some short-term capital gains). &amp;amp;quot;We were able to liquidate our portfolios in 15 minutes,&amp;amp;quot; says Mr. Gerber. But the Ameristock ETFs specialized in Treasury bonds.  &amp;amp;quot;If an ETF&amp;#039;s investing in illiquid securities and has to liquidate in distressed markets,&amp;amp;quot; warns Mr. Gerber, &amp;amp;quot;it will have the same problems as a hedge fund&amp;amp;quot; -- namely, a slight but real risk that NAV, or net asset value, may turn out to mean not asset value.   Less worrisome, but perhaps more likely, is what I call &amp;amp;quot;chameleon risk.&amp;amp;quot; From 2001 through the end of 2007, according to fund tracker Morningstar, 1,548 mutual funds were merged out of existence. At AllianceBernstein Holding, shareholders in an Asian and in a European fund were shifted into a generic international fund. AXP Nasdaq 100 and AXP Total Stock Market were both absorbed into RiverSource S&amp;amp;amp;P 500 index fund. All these investors ended up owning a fund different from the one they started with.  I suspect that chameleon mergers will spread from mutual funds to ETFs.  Why should ETF sponsors give your money back when they can keep it by shoving you into one of their other funds?   Here are a few guidelines for navigating the coming wave of consolidation.  Big is beautiful.  If you invest in any ETF that has less than $50 million in assets, you are asking for trouble.  Stick to big portfolios from the largest sponsors, like Barclays Global Investors, State Street and Vanguard Group.  Avoid the fringe. If you buy an ETF of Bulgarian casino stocks and it ends up whacking you with taxes or plunking you into a basket of Romanian Internet providers, you have no one to blame but yourself. Restrict yourself to ETFs in mainstream indexes of stocks and bonds.  Don&amp;#039;t pay to get out. If you do own an ETF that is shutting down, consider how liquid its holdings are. Unless its securities are thinly traded, hang on until the fund is redeemed. That will provide you a rare parting gift: the opportunity to be cashed out without any brokerage commissions.   Email: intelligentinvestor@wsj.com. The column won&amp;#039;t appear the next two Saturdays due to vacation, and will resume Aug. 23.    
