  -www.companiesandmarkets.com adds new report: Indian Insurance Industry Forecast (2007-2009) Indian Insurance Industry Forecast (2007-2009), provides extensive research and objective analysis of the growing insurance industry, its product quality, and services in India. This report helps to analyze the leading-edge opportunities critical to the success of the insurance Industry in India. Detailed data and analysis helps investors, financial service providers, and global banking players to navigate through the evolving insurance market in India. Key Findings Taking into account the changing socio-economic demographics, rate of GDP growth, changing consumer behavior and occurrences of natural calamities at regular intervals, the Indian life insurance market is expected to reach the value of around Rs 1683 Billion in the year 2009. The market is expected to grow at a CAGR of more than 200% YOY from the year 2006. In 2006-07, pension premium contributed about 22.11% to total premium income of insurers. Interestingly, the figure in the first nine months to December 2005 was 25.22%. In the non-life segment, the established players control 65% of the market. So it is their monthly performance that determines how the market as a whole would perform. In Motor Insurance Business, Public sector covers almost 68% of the market value whereas the private sector just had 32% market share till September 2006. In Accident Insurance Business, private sector players have almost 53% market share with ICICI Lombard as the lead player. Public sector players constitute about 47% market value with New India as the leading player followed by United India. Key Issues and Facts Analyzed The research report also addresses the issues and facts that are critical to business success: What are the marketing strategies of the players in the insurance industry? How is the growth in Health and Group insurance are driving the Insurance sector in India? What are the opportunities for the players in this industry and what are the challenges to sustain the Insurance market in India? What will be the prospective areas of investments in the insurance industry in the near future? Which factors will lead to the growth of Life and Non-life insurance in India? Key Products Analyzed Key products like Life and Non-life insurance have been analyzed, supported by facts like revenue and market trends. Key Players This section provides an overview of some of the key players in this industry like Bajaj Allianz, ING Vysya, AMP Sanmar Assurance Limited, SBI Life, Tata AIG Life, HDFC Standard, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, Birla Sunlife, Aviva Life Insurance, Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual, Max New York Life, Met Life, Sahara Life, LIC, Royal Sundaram, Tata-AIG General, Reliance General, IFFCO-Tokio, ICICI-Lombard, HDFC Chubb, New India Assurance Company Limited, National Insurance Company Limited, United India Insurance Company Limited and Oriental Insurance Limited. Research Methodology Used Information Sources Information has been sourced from various sources namely, Books, Newspapers, trade journals, and white papers, industry portals, government agencies, trade associations, monitoring industry news and developments, and through access to access to more than 3000 paid databases. Analysis Methods The analysis methods includes the following: Ratio Analysis, Historical Trend Analysis, Linear Regression Analysis using software tools, Judgmental Forecasting and Cause and Effect Analysis. http://www.companiesandmarkets.com/Summary-Market-Report/Indian-Insuranc e-Industry-Forecast-(2007-2009)-46704.asp CONTACT: Mike King, Director, www.companiesandmarkets.com Tel: +44 (0)1933 674 780 Fax: +44 (0)1933 674 780 e-mail: info@companiesandmarkets.com WWW:http://www.companiesandmarkets.com (M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2 PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com). 
