Here&#8217;s some details on what the government has planned out.   My comments are in bold print inside the story&#8230;&#8230; Government Offers Details of Bank Stress Test - NYTimes.com Nineteen major banks worth more than $100 billion will face a mandatory stress test to judge whether they have enough capital to survive another steep drop in housing prices or a sharp increase in unemployment rates. So, apparently the government isn&#8217;t concerned whether Citibank, Bank of America or any of the other top 19 can survive what we&#8217;re going through right now?   If I believed that, I think it would make me feel better.   Oh, in the effort of full disclosure, my bank is, I believe, #12 on that list. Common stock carries voting rights and could hand the government greater influence over the banks that take on additional money  or the executives who run them  but the government would no longer be in a more senior position to be paid dividends or paid back first in the event a bank collapsed. I was watching CNBC on Tuesday and one of the guys on there (it wasn&#8217;t Rick Santelli) made a point about Citibank.   He said that the Saudi Prince (name escapes me) who owns 4% of Citibank has the ability to make senior management at Citibank jump quite high.   If the government owns 40% of Citibank, how high can Ben and Tim and Barack get senior management to jump? Mr. Bernanke said the government could end up owning larger stakes in the banks, but that nationalization is when the government seizes the bank, zeros out the shareholders and begins to manage and run the bank, and we dont plan anything like that. So, let me make sure that I understand this.  We&#8217;re going to pour millions and billions (and potentially trillions) of dollars into the banks and then potentially convert it to common stock later and not have any management changes or shake up in terms of who&#8217;s running things?   Hmmm, do I understand that right? Under the so-called baseline expectations of the economys performance, unemployment will rise to 8.4 percent this year, economic growth will contract 2 percent and home prices will fall 14 percent. Houston, we have a problem.  If Bernanke and company are predicting baseline expectations (meaning what they think will happen) of an additional 14% national drop in housing prices, then this is going to be a challenging year.   Look for:  additional losses (substantial ones) at Fannie and Freddie additional job losses tightening underwriting (and loan to value requirements) as housing prices still get adjusted downward.  A worse-case scenario envisions home prices falling 22 percent this year, the gross domestic product contracting 3.3 percent and unemployment rising to 8.9 in 2009 and 10.3 percent in 2010. Ouch.  Bank Stress Test Post from: Straight Talk About Mortgages and Real Estate  If you are reading this anywhere other than your RSS Feed or on my site, please contact me at tvanderwell@straighttalkaboutmortgages.com. The Stress Tests are making me STRESSED! 
