After closing its acquisition, Bank of America Corp. is leaking Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. bankers. The latest: A dealmaking dozen have defected to Deutsche Bank AG's financial institutions group in the global banking division. Four senior hires are Eric Heaton, David Heaton, Richard Slimmon and Richard Gibb. Eric and David join as managing directors in New York, while Slimmon and Gibb will arrive as managing directors in London and Hong Kong, respectively.Also in New York, Seth Heaton and Venkat Badinehal will join as managing directors along with director Jason Braunstein.Eric Heaton (pictured) was most recently treasurer for Merrill Lynch. Prior to that role, he was co-head of Americas financial institutions, specializing in depository institutions. David Heaton was head of global asset management investment banking at Merrill, while Slimmon was a senior banker in the European financial institutions investment banking group. Gibb was head of financial institutions, Asia-Pacific and Australia in addition to serving as head of the financial sponsors group for Asia-Pacific at Merrill.Seth Heaton, Badinehal and Braunstein all served in the FIG investment banking group at Merrill, where they covered U.S. depository institutions, including regional and super-regional banks as well as U.S. affiliates of European banks.The group of 12 also includes vice presidents and associates. The post-acquisition ex-Merrill list is led by former CEO John Thain, but also includes:Daniel Markaity and Christopher Bury, who joined Jefferies &amp; Co. as co-heads of the fixed-income rates business;former president and chief operating officer Gregory Fleming, who went to his alma mater Yale; andRobert McCann, who was vice chairman and president of the prized global wealth management division at Merrill.A Reuters report claims that Chris Jolly, one of Britain's highest-profile real estate investment bankers, will also leave Merrill. We didn't get word on how big a financial incentive the bankers were given, but both Merrill and Deutsche are cutting bonuses. New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo may demand Merrill employees to return $4 billion in bonuses. Meanwhile Deutsche Bank is reportedly going to cut the bonus pool in its securities unit by 60%. - Baz Hiralal   
