Starting tonight PBS will start airing FRONTLINE INVESTIGATES HOW THE ECONOMY WENT SO BAD SO FAST. This is must see television. The good news is you will be able to watch it on PBS or on the Internet. To find out when the show is airing in your market go here and enter your zip code.FRONTLINE investigates the causes of the worst economic crisis in 70 years and how the government responded. The film chronicles the inside stories of the Bear Stearns deal, Lehman Brothers collapse, the propping up of insurance giant AIG, and the $700 billion bailout. Inside the Meltdown examines what Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke didnt see, couldnt stop and havent been able to fix. These trailers are a bit eerie. Worth watching to get an idea of the show and tone.    Subscribe to All American Investor via EmailFRONTLINE INVESTIGATES HOW THE ECONOMY WENT SO BAD SO FASTFRONTLINE PresentsInside the MeltdownTuesday, February 17, 2009, at 9 P.M. ET on PBSwww.pbs.org/frontline/meltdownOn Thursday, Sept. 18, 2008, the astonished leadership of the U.S. Congress was told in a private session by the chairman of the Federal Reserve that the American economy was in grave danger of a complete meltdown within a matter of days. There was literally a pause in that room where the oxygen left, says Sen. Christopher Dodd (D-Conn.).FRONTLINE producer Michael Kirk goes behind closed doors in Washington and on Wall Street to investigate how the economy went so bad so fast and why emergency actions by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson failed to prevent the worst economic crisis in a generation on Inside the Meltdown, airing Tuesday, Feb. 17, 2009, at 9 P.M. ET on PBS (check local listings).As the housing bubble burst and trillions of dollars worth of toxic mortgages began to go bad in 2007, fear spread through the massive firms that form the heart of Wall Street. By the spring of 2008, burdened by billions of dollars of bad mortgages, the investment bank Bear Stearns was the subject of rumors that it would soon fail.Rumors are such that they can just plain put you out of business, Bear Stearns former CEO Alan Ace Greenberg tells FRONTLINE.The companys stock had dropped from $171 to $57 a share, and it was hours from declaring bankruptcy. Ben Bernanke acted. It was clear that this had to be contained. There was no doubt in his mind, says Bernankes colleague economist Mark Gertler.Bernanke, a former economics professor from Princeton, specialized in studying the Great Depression. He more than anybody else appreciated what would happen if it got out of control, Gertler explains.To stabilize the markets, Bernanke engineered a shotgun marriage between Bear Sterns and the commercial bank JPMorgan, with a promise that the federal government would use $30 billion to cover Bear Stearns questionable assets tied to toxic mortgages. It was an unprecedented effort to stop the contagion of fear that seemed to be threatening the rest of Wall Street.While publicly supportive of the deal, Secretary Paulson, a former Wall Street executive with Goldman Sachs, was uncomfortable with government interference in the markets. That summer, he issued a warning to his former colleagues not to expect future government bailouts, saying he was concerned about a legal concept known as moral hazard.Within months, however, Paulson would witness the virtual collapse of the giant mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and preside over their takeover by the federal government.The episode sent shockwaves through the economy as confidence in Wall Street began to evaporate. Within days, in September 2008, another investment bank, Lehman Brothers, was on the brink of collapse. Once again, there were calls for Bernanke and Paulson to bail out the Wall Street giant. But Paulson was under intense political pressure from conservative Republicans in Washington to invoke moral hazard and let the company fail.You had a conservative secretary of the Treasury and conservative administration. There was right-wing criticism over Bear Stearns, says Congressman Barney Frank (D-Mass.), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.Paulson pushed Lehmans CEO Dick Fuld to find a buyer for his ailing company. But no company would buy Lehman unless the government offered a deal similar to the one Bear Stearns had received. Paulson refused, and Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy.FRONTLINE then chronicles the disaster that followed. Within 24 hours, the stock market crashed, and credit markets around the world froze. Were no longer talking about mortgages, says economist Gertler. Were talking about car loans, loans to small businesses, commercial paper borrowing by large banks. This is like a disease spreading.I think that the secretary of the Treasury could not fully comprehend what that linkage was and the extent to which this would materialize into problems, says former Lehman board member Henry Kaufman.Paulson was thunderstruck. This is the utter nightmare of an economic policy-maker, Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman tells FRONTLINE. You may have just made the decision that destroyed the world. Absolutely terrifying moment.In response, Paulson and Bernanke would proposeand Congress would eventually passa $700 billion bailout plan. FRONTLINE goes inside the deliberations surrounding the passage of the legislation and examines its unsuccessful implementation.Many Americans still dont understand what has happened to the economy, FRONTLINE producer/director Michael Kirk says. How did it all go so bad so quickly? Who is responsible? How effective has the response from Washington and Wall Street been? Those are the questions at the heart of Inside the Meltdown.Inside the Meltdown is a FRONTLINE co-production with Kirk Documentary Group, Ltd. The writer, producer and director is Michael Kirk. The producer and reporter is Jim Gilmore. FRONTLINE is produced by WGBH Boston and is broadcast nationwide on PBS. Funding for FRONTLINE is provided through the support of PBS viewers. Major funding for FRONTLINE is provided by The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Additional funding is provided by the Park Foundation. FRONTLINE is closed-captioned for deaf and hard-of-hearing viewers and described for people who are blind or visually impaired by the Media Access Group at WGBH. FRONTLINE is a registered trademark of WGBH Educational Foundation. The executive producer of FRONTLINE is David Fanning.pbs.org/pressroomPromotional photography can be downloaded from the PBS pressroom.Press contactsDiane Buxton(617) 300-5375diane_buxton@wgbh.orgAlissa Rooney(617) 300-5314alissa_rooney@wgbh.org   More from All American InvestorRay Dalio on the current state of affairs in the marketHomebuyer Credit Wont Stabilize Market, Analysts SayRoubini Predicts U.S. Losses May Reach $3.6 TrillionSix Errors on the Path to the Financial CrisisWho Caused the Financial Crisis?Option ARM--The Toxic MortgageDebt Binge--The Perfect Financial Storm          
