Bloomberg reports in two articles, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Increase Rights Offer Fees and JPMorgan Said to Reap $5 Billion Derivatives Profit the benefits and risks of fewer and larger investment banking operations. Goldman Sachs (GS) and JP Morgan (JPM) and eight other underwriters increased their fee for the HSBC (HBC) rights offering to 2.75% from the 1.75% fee charged to Royal Bank of Scotland (RBC) by Goldman, Merrill Lynch (BAC) and UBS (UBS). Fees have increased from an average 1.9% to 2.9% to compensate the underwriters for the risk that the offerings wont be completely sold and they are stuck with inventory. The investment banks are taking advantage of limited capacity to raise risk related fees.It is clear to see the advantage of the elimination of the Lehman capacity and reduced competition of the Bear Stearns and Merrill mergers for the remaining banks. But, the further concentration of risk is an impending danger sign. JP Morgan is reported to have earned $5B of its $5.6B profit in 2008 from trading over-the-counter fixed-income derivatives. Much of the derivatives were related to its $132B of corporate debt underwriting. Additional volume came from the fear of counterparty risk in competitors. This flight to quality is not considering that JP Morgan has accumulated $87.7T in outstanding OTC contracts. That is more than the balance of its nearest two competitors combined, Bank of America (BAC) and Citigroup (C).As LTCM taught us long ago, portfolio management of risk can collapse based on unforeseen events. And the monolines and AIG (AIG) taught us that counterparties are not always reliable, even if JP Morgans book is perfectly matched. Interest swaps and foreign currency exchange fees rose 60% in 2008 as spreads widened. This leads me to be concerned that CEO Jamie Dimon is chasing fees. Dimon is filling a vacuum and temporarily reaping the rewards. These rewards are supporting WaMu integration and other empire building.The question remains, is the government supporting the formation of a new investment banking bubble on the shoulders of Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley (MS)? These appear to be the last true investment banks left standing. It seems that the regulators are granting a lot of leeway in OTC contracts, one of the few remaining high profit investment banking activities. If the country was alarmed by the concentration of risk in AIG and the cost of unwinding it, think about a huge multiple of that contained in a limited number of investment banks.Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke spoke of the need for regulators to review and approve new financial products, in answer to a Senators question. The discussion related to the complexity and risks of the financial alchemy of the last decade. He was eluding to the FDAs model for approving drugs before they can be marketed and sold, including defining the target audience and delivery method. This was a complete break from Greenspan and Paulson, who advocated experiment first and cleanup later.In summary, Bernanke is now leaning toward financial product standardization while reluctant actually regulate risk reduction. Bernanke is still not ready to truly force the remaining investment banks to recognize the black swans. With Bernankes need to need hang on to the failed securitization model of the past, he still refuses to let banks go back to basic conservation banking under the utility model.Disclosure: Author is long AIG, BAC and C. 
