Investment bankers, take heart: At least one bank still loves you. While other firms around the world slash (or eliminate) bonuses and cut staff, Deutsche Bank has been on a bit of a hiring spree. Wednesday, the German bank plans to announce the appointment of UBS banker Tom Cooper as co-chairman of global mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Cooper, 46 years old and based in London, had been the head of European M&#038;A at the Swiss bank before stepping aside to focus on such deals as British Airways bid to merge with Spanish airline Iberia. The appointment follows Mondays announcement that Deutsche Back poached four bankers from Bank of America Merrill Lynchs Paris office, and 12 financial-services bankers from Bank of America last month. In all, Deutsche Bank has hired 25 senior bankers from weakened rivals in the past six months. Deutsche Bank is in a somewhat enviable position. Not only has it held up better than rivals as markets and economies around the world buckle, but it is benefiting from its conservative hiring policy in the good times. Investment-banking headcount has held steady since 2003, according to bank officials. Deutsche Bank now is using that relative strength to beef up in areas such as the U.S., where it has trailed such rivals as Goldman Sachs Group and Morgan Stanley. In the Thomson Reuters merger rankings for last year, for example, Deutsche Bank came in eighth advising on deals with a U.S. target. Goldman and Morgan Stanley ranked higher. Mr. Cooper will report to Deutsche Bank&#8217;s co-heads of global M&#038;A, Henrik Aslaksen and Brett Olsher, and hunt for deals alongside Jim Stynes, the global M&#038;A co-chairman who is based in New York. Deutsche Bank has weathered the storm remarkably well and is in a great position to take advantage of the opportunity to gain market share around the world, Mr. Cooper said Tuesday, his last day at UBS after 21 years there. Few banks are as ripe to be picked over as UBS. With tens of billions of dollars in losses at its investment bank and a high-profile U.S. tax investigation into its prized wealth-management unit, the firm is under siege like few others. Forced to go hat in hand to the Swiss government, it had little choice but to practically eliminate bonuses for its investment-banking staff, which has been slashed by a third from its peak size.  At least for now, Deutsche Bank seems to be a happier place.        
