 Willem Buiter answers some questions on his &#8216;good &#8216;bank&#8217; scheme. Question #2 is my question - what about bond holders?  My &#8216;Good Bank&#8217; proposal (see (1), (2), (3), and (4), and related proposals by Joseph  Stiglitz, George  Soros and Paul  Romer) appears to be getting some attention if not yet traction in a number of European capitals and in Washington.  There are a couple of questions about the proposal that crop up regularly, and I would like to address these here.  They are (1)  how do you set up a good bank, and (2) would not the senior unsecured creditors of the old bad bank be likely to take a hit under your proposal?  &lt;snip&gt;  The bad old bank It would manage the remaining assets of the old bank in the interest of the shareholders of the old bank.  Should the old bank fail, the appropriate insolvency protection regime and insolvency regime for the asset management fund that the old bank has now become will be involved.  The unsecured creditors (including the holders of senior unsecured debt) would be at risk.  At the very least, some or all of their claims are likely to be converted into ordinary equity. As an old bad bank is no longer in the new lending business and engages in new funding only to maximise the returns from managing (down) the existing portfolio of assets, the old bad banks are of no greater systemic significance than any other asset managers.  &lt;snip&gt;  As far as the banking customers (depositors and borrowers) are concerned, they would at first only notice the change in the name on the door (from Citi to New Citi or from Bank of America to New Bank of America). The legacy bad old bank fund management team could rent some space in the basement of the new bank.  The whole exercise could be implemented over a weekend.  The senior debt  of many of the institutions that are likely to turn out to be bad banks is often held by institutional investors like pension funds and insurance companies.  If and when the old bad banks default on that debt, the holders of the debt obviously get hurt.  While that is regrettable, it is surely better that the burden of the losses incurred as a result of past bad lending and investment decisions fall on those who made these decisions rather than on the tax payer. 
