NY Times:One Merrill Lynch trader apparently gambled away more than $120 million in the currency markets. Others seemingly lost hundreds of millions on tricky credit derivatives.But somehow all this red ink did not spill into plain view until after Merrill earmarked billions for bonuses and staggered into the arms of Bank of America.Inside Bank of America headquarters here, executives are asking why. The bank is investigating how Merrill accounted for wayward trades in the final, frantic months of 2008  and why at least one big loss was slow to appear on Merrills books. Of particular concern are the activities of a Merrill currency trader in London, Alexis Stenfors, whose trading has come under scrutiny by British regulators, according to people briefed on the investigation. The loss Mr. Stenfors is believed to have incurred so alarmed Bank of America that this week the bank examined the books of other traders who were on vacation. Bank of Americas embattled chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, is trying to bridle Merrills traders, whose rush into risky investments nearly brought down the brokerage firm. But questions over the Merrill losses  in particular, who knew about them, and when  keep swirling. Merrill hemorrhaged $13.8 billion during the final three months of 2008 alone.Bank of Americas shareholders did not learn of that gaping hole until after they approved the merger of the two companies on Dec. 5. Nor was the extent of the loss fully known when Merrill paid out $3.6 billion in bonuses, which were based on estimates of the firms performance as of Dec. 8. When the problems became clear, Bank of America was forced to seek a second, multibillion-dollar rescue from Washington.The epicenter of the trouble is Merrills markets operation, headed by Thomas K. Montag. Mr. Montag, a former Goldman Sachs trader who was brought in by John A. Thain, Merrills fallen chief executive, has become a divisive figure inside Bank of America. He is trying to retain his top producers amid the furor over Merrills bonuses. He flew to Charlotte this week to strategize with deputies from around the world....This kind of discrepancy would normally trigger a post closing adjustment to the purchase price.  It is hard to imagine in a deal this size there would not be a mechanism for that within the deal itself without triggering some need to go to the government to cover it unless for some reason the government was on the hook for the post closing adjustments.  If that is true, it was a really bad deal for not only Bank of America, but also the government.  A well structure agreement would have some mechanism for a claw back on the bonuses paid to those responsible for the losses.
