Dinah Washington again? Although PANC was off 50%, bank stocks and the broad market had a nice rebound from yesterdays drubbing. IBM helped (#msg-34953536). http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123253762172302111.html Banks Lead Stock Rebound JANUARY 21, 2009, 4:13 P.M. ET By GEOFFREY ROGOW and ROB CURRAN Stocks mounted an impressive comeback on Wednesday, one day after a deep selloff in the financial sector pulled the broader market downward. As was the case in the market's move down on Tuesday, bank stocks led the way on Wednesday. Driven by double-digit percentage gains for Citigroup, Bank of America and J.P. Morgan Chase, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 279.01 points, or 3.5%, to 8228.10. Stocks strengthened as the session wore on, with the rally spreading beyond financials into several other sectors. The blue-chip measure was also helped by an 11% gain for International Business Machines, which forecast full-year earnings that topped Wall Street's expectations and a 12% rise in fourth-quarter profit. bThe S&amp;P 500 gained 35.02 points, or 4.4%, to 840.25. Energy stocks in particular were strong amid a jump in crude-oil prices. Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite gained 66.21 points, or 4.6%, to 1507.07. Intel shares gained 3%. Despite Wednesday's bank-led gains, the sector remains on a more than two-month long decline [no kidding]. Large financial firm are still susceptible to continued weakening of economic conditions and many still have bad assets left to write-down. Should banks fail to at least stabilize, investors say there is little way the market in general, can improve. Moreover, any move to rescue the sector could involve the U.S. government taking big equity stakes that would dilute the shareholder value that remains. "I don't see the tangible value in these financial institutions," said David Klaskin, chief investment officer for Oak Ridge Investments in Chicago. "Will the government care about the equity holder? I don't think so." The Dow's big losers included General Motors, which fell 4.3% after reporting an 11% decline in 2008 sales and forecasting a bleak first quarter as well. Toyota Motor passed GM out as the world's largest auto maker by sales. As weakness in banks permeates, traders fear few areas of the corporate landscape will be able to have stable earnings growth. Among the latest flood of earnings warnings, analysts said General Electric's fourth-quarter profit could disappoint investors and a dividend cut could be in the offing GE reports this Friday]. "We're increasingly looking at feedback loop," in which a lack of lending by struggling banks is leading to slowdowns in spending, hiring and production of everything from computer chips to cars, said strategist Bill King of M. Ramsey King Securities in Burr Ridge, Ill. Referring to banks' declining ability to act as an engine of growth in the broader U.S. economy, he added: "It's happening faster than I thought. I thought they could sort of hold up until March or April."
