By Rafael Nam    HONG KONG, Jan 15 (Reuters) - Asian shares hit a six-week low on Thursday and safe-haven Japanese bond futures rose to their highest since Lehman Brothers collapsed in September as the U.S. banking crisis deepened, sparking fears of prolonged financial turmoil.    Bank of America Corp and Citigroup Inc shares plunged on Wednesday as investors questioned whether the firms have enough capital to cover losses from toxic assets.    The market turbulence -- with European shares also set to fall at the open -- is another blow to major economies and many consumers who are facing the toughest conditions in decades, as evidenced by more gloomy data out of the United States, Germany and Japan.    The European Central Bank is expected to slash interest rates later in the day in a bid to stimulate growth, though uncertainty about how deep the cut will be helped send the euro to multi-week lows on Wednesday.    'A continued flow of bad economic data is pointing to a steeper global recession and worsening concerns about corporate earnings,' said Lee Sun-yeob, a market analyst at Goodmorning Shinhan Securities in Seoul.    'Increasingly bearish prospects for global banks' results are also pressuring sentiment.'    The MSCI index of Asia-Pacific shares excluding Japan  dropped 5.2 percent as of 0705 GMT, heading for its biggest percentage daily fall since mid-November.    The last time worries about Citigroup's fate undermined global equity markets was in November, when the U.S. government stepped in to prop up the lender with government funds.    The MSCI index on Thursday hit its lowest since Dec. 8, down almost 9 percent for the year. The deep falls over the past week and a half are rapidly denting a rally that still has shares up about 17 percent since hitting five-year lows in November.    Policymakers worldwide have responded since late last year by slashing interest rates and announcing massive government spending plans, but the actions have yet to fully convince investors.    Data on Wednesday showed December U.S. retail sales tumbled and Germany's economic growth slipped to a three-year low in 2008.    In Japan, core machinery orders fell by a record amount in November, data showed on Thursday.    'The problems are global and there isn't any real good news around,' said Martin Angel, a dealer at Patersons Securities Ltd. in Australia. 'You are just not going to escape it.'    Japan's Nikkei average dropped 4.9 percent, with Nissan Motor Co slipping 3.4 percent on news it will post an annual operating loss because of sliding sales and a soaring yen.    Benchmark stock markets in South Korea dropped 6 percent, while Australia, Hong Kong and Taiwan  fell 4-5 percent each.    The worsening global economy is putting corporate earnings under fire and pushing some firms to file for bankruptcy, a step taken by Canadian telephone equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp  on Wednesday.    Oil prices also dropped on concerns about weakening global demand, with U.S. crude futures down $1.00 to $36.28.    BANKING CRISIS RETURNS    Woes at global financial firms looked set to continue, reinforcing the concerns about the economic downturn.    Citigroup shares tumbled 23 percent to below $5 on Wednesday on worries about its plan to shrink by about one-third, while Bank of America Corp is close to receiving billions of dollars of support from the U.S. government as it tries to digest its purchase of Merrill Lynch.    HSBC shares sank 5.4 percent in Asian trade, hitting a 10-year low at one point, as analysts said it may halve its dividend and raise up to $30 billion in a rights issue.    Investors are having to contend as well with potential credit ratings actions for countries facing deteriorating finances.    Standard &amp; Poor's cut its rating on Greece's sovereign rating on Wednesday citing a rising public deficit. That contributed to the euro's fall to one-month lows against the dollar and a six-week trough versus the yen.    The euro dipped 0.1 percent to $1.3173, having hit a one-month low of $1.3093 on EBS the previous day.    The ECB meets later in the day with expectations varying from a quarter-point reduction of the current 2.5 percent benchmark rate to a half-point move or more.    Risk aversion sent some investors into traditionally safe but low-yielding assets such as government bonds and pushed the Japanese yen higher, which put more pressure on stocks in Tokyo.    March 10-year Japanese government bond futures rose to 140.19 , the highest for a lead contract since Sept. 16, in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers. After trimming some gains, the contract stood at 140.05, up 0.40 point on the day.    The benchmark 10-year JGB yield fell 5 basis points to 1.210 percent.    The yen, after initially dipping on the weak Japanese machinery data, recovered. Japan's currency tends to gain in volatile times as investors unwind trades in which they borrow the low-yielding yen to invest in riskier assets.    The dollar slipped 0.2 percent from late U.S. trade to 88.88 yen.    ((For the state of play of Asian stock markets please click on: ))    (Additional reporting by Jungyoun Park in SEOUL and Simone Giuliani in SYDNEY; Editing by Kim Coghill) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL    (rafael.nam@reuters.com; +852 2843-6548; Reuters Messaging: rafael.nam.reuters.com@reuters.net)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
