Wall Street moves higher on Citi, BofA plans Friday January 16, 12:06 pm ET By Stephen Bernard, AP Business Writer Investors shows relief as BofA to receive government funds, Citi to split operations NEW YORK (AP) -- A relieved Wall Street advanced moderately Friday as investors focused on big banks' plans to fix their balance sheets and took in stride billion-dollar losses reported by Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. ADVERTISEMENT Citigroup, among the hardest hit by the ongoing credit and mortgage market turmoil, said it will split its operations in two, separating its traditional banking business from the company's riskier assets. The move by Citi follows a deal earlier in the week to sell control of its brokerage business to Morgan Stanley as it looks to streamline operations and shed assets. Citi said it lost $8.29 billion, or $1.72 per share, during the final three months of the year. Bank of America said it lost $2.39 billion, or 48 cents per share. That news came hours after Bank of America agreed on a deal to receive an additional $20 billion in support from the government. The bank will also receive guarantees to cover up to $118 billion in losses on loans and securities backed by residential and commercial real estate as it incorporates recently acquired Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. into its operations. Bank of America's deal with the government is similar to one Citigroup reached with the government last fall. Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at RDM Financial Group, said the news on Citi and Bank of America has helped extend a rebound on Wall Street that began Thursday afternoon after more than a week of selling. "It's a bit of a continuation from yesterday's turnaround and a little bit of relief that the largest U.S. banks will get funding if they need it from the U.S. government," Sheldon said. In midday trading, the Dow Jones industrial average rose, but retreated earlier highs, gaining 41.65, or 0.51 percent, to 8,254.14. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index gained 1.70, or 0.20 percent, to 845.44, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 1.94, or 0.13 percent, to 1,1513.78. Sheldon said investors might also be upbeat about a report from the University of Michigan and Reuters showing consumer sentiment was slightly higher in early January. Consumer sentiment rose to 61.9 from a reading of 60.1 in late December. "It's the highest level since September," Sheldon said. "Maybe that's an indication investors are feeling a little better about the economy and financial sector." The market showed little reaction to the government's latest reports showing the economy remains weak. The Labor Department said the consumer price index fell 0.7 percent in December as energy prices slid. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters forecast a 0.9 percent drop. For the full year, prices rose just 0.1 percent -- the smallest gain since prices actually fell in 1954. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said industrial production from the nation's factories, mines and utilities fell a larger-than-expected 2 percent in December. Economists expected a 1 percent decline. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 583.2 million shares. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 0.87, or 0.19 percent, to 463.49. Oil prices fell 35 cents to $35.05. The dollar mostly fell against other major currencies, while gold prices rose. Bond prices fell. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, rose to 2.31 percent from 2.20 percent late Thursday. The yield on the three-month T-bill, considered one of the safest investments, rose to 0.12 percent from 0.10 percent late Thursday. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 2.6 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 gained 2 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 1.1 percent, and France's CAC-40 was rose 1 percent. New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com
