NEW YORK--(Business Wire)-- American International Group, Inc. (AIG) has announced that Anastasia D. Kelly, AIG Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Senior Regulatory and Compliance Officer, has been named Vice Chairman, reporting to AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward J. Liddy. In this new position, Ms. Kelly assumes responsibility for the Communications, Corporate Affairs and Human Resources functions, in addition to her present responsibilities for Global Legal, Compliance and Regulatory matters.   Commenting on Ms. Kelly's new position, Mr. Liddy said, 'With the alignment of policy functions under Stasia's leadership and the recent organization of administrative functions under Vice Chairman Richard Booth and asset disposition functions under Vice Chairman Paula Reynolds, AIG's corporate activities are better positioned to achieve our goals of repaying American taxpayers and restoring AIG's financial health. '   Ms. Kelly joined AIG in September 2006. She was previously Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MCI/WorldCom, where she served as the chief legal officer from 2003 until MCI/WorldCom's merger with Verizon early in 2006. Before that, Stasia served as General Counsel of Sears, Roebuck and Fannie Mae, and was a partner at Wilmer Hale in Washington, D.C.   American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.       AIG Christina Pretto, 212-770-7083 Corporate Media Relations     Copyright Business Wire 2009  
