American International Group, Inc. (AIG) has announced that Christina Pretto has joined AIG as Vice President, Corporate Media Relations. Ms. Pretto will oversee all aspects of AIG's corporate media relations, including developing and implementing AIG's media relations strategy, counseling senior management on media affairs, and coordinating media activities with AIG's communications professionals around the world.  Ms. Pretto joins AIG from Citigroup Inc., where she was Managing Director and Global Head of Public Affairs, serving as chief media spokesperson with responsibilities for managing all of the company's media relations at the parent company level. Previously, she was Global Head of Corporate Affairs for Citigroup's corporate and investment banking division, responsible for media relations, internal communications, branding, advertising, digital media, community affairs, and external positioning.  Ms. Pretto joined Citigroup in 2001 as Deputy Director of Public Affairs. Prior to joining Citigroup, she was the Director of Communications for Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, and before that worked as a journalist covering global debt capital markets and U.S. public finance. She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Wisconsin.  American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.  SOURCE: American International Group, Inc.  American International Group, Inc. Joe Norton, 212-770-3144 Director of Public Relations  
