NEW YORK, Jan 14 (Reuters) - New York insurance regulator Eric Dinallo, the man overseeing AIG Dinallo, AIG's main regulator, vouched for Liddy's efforts on the sidelines of an industry event late on Tuesday. Some lawmakers have criticised Liddy for AIG's hosting of a costly executive retreat and a decision to pay retention bonuses to ward off staff defections.   'Edward Liddy has to make decisions...and he should not be second guessed,' Dinallo told reporters.   Dinallo said that nearly four months into the job Liddy was already engaged in transactions that would help the insurer pay down taxpayer debt.   He gave Liddy the plug even as AIG's retention payment plan proved less than successful. The insurer has in recent months lost key employees, including Kevin Kelley, a highly-respected executive who long led AIG unit Lexington Insurance Co.   Liddy, who retired from home and auto insurer Allstate Corp   To date, Liddy has reached agreements for the sales of a Canadian life insurance business, U.S. specialty insurer HSB Group, a private bank in Switzerland and untangled several partnerships.   In some cases proceeds have not been disclosed, but the total pricetag for AIG's major asset sales barely tops $1 billion.   More asset sales are expected, including a large chunk of its life insurance operations, an asset management division, and what has been a highly profitable aircraft leasing business, to raise funds to repay a $60 billion loan, which is part of a total bailout that ballooned to about $150 billion in November.   'The sales should not be fire sales,' said Dinallo on Tuesday.   Under revised terms for the government loan, AIG has up to five years to sell off assets, up from two years it was first given to repay borrowings.   Even with a longer horizon to repay taxpayers, and signs that its sale process is gaining steam, analysts say AIG's future is not assured.   'How quickly AIG's forced asset sales proceed and whether the government's position in AIG's capital structure is subject to change each remain unquantifiable issues that could unlock or suffocate value,' analyst Joshua Shanker said in a note to clients on Tuesday.   (Editing by Jon Loades-Carter) Keywords: hold INSURANCE/DINALLO   (lilla.zuill@thomsonreuters.com;+1 646 223 6281)  Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 
