AIG Commercial Insurance, today announced that it will service all casualty insurance coverage for the public sector through its Lexington Insurance Company unit. Specifically, effective as of January 1, 2009, Lexington's Casualty Division will manage the public entity commercial umbrella and excess casualty portfolio of AIG Specialty Excess, a division of AIG Excess Casualty, which along with Lexington specializes in addressing the risks of public entities, utilities and transit agencies. The organizational change streamlines access to excess casualty insurance through a centralized underwriting and claims resource for clients and brokers. Lexington, and other AIG Commercial Insurance units, can provide a full selection of insurance products and services to public entities, including workers' compensation, excess workers' compensation, environmental, property, construction, auto liability, executive liability and accident &amp;amp; health programs. 'Consolidating our underwriting and claims capabilities for public entities creates synergies to benefit customers and improves service which brokers will appreciate,' said David J. Bresnahan, Executive Vice President, Lexington Insurance Company. 'The move delivers efficiency without sacrificing product strength, capacity or important underwriting relationships.' For more information about insurance solutions for public entities, visit www.aig.com/publicentitiessolutions. For questions, contact Susan Kostro, Vice President, Lexington Insurance Company at 617-330-8335 or susan.kostro@aig.com. AIG Commercial Insurance serves a wide range of customers from multinational and middle-market companies to non-profit organizations and small entrepreneurs. Its extensive product offerings include general and excess liability, property, management and professional liability, workers' compensation, accident and health, environmental liability, and integrated global programs for multinational companies. AIG Commercial Insurance also maintains dedicated industry groups to serve the insurance needs of the aviation, construction, education, energy, financial institution, healthcare, marine and real estate sectors. AIG Commercial Insurance is the marketing name for the domestic commercial property casualty insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products are written by insurance company subsidiaries of AIG Commercial Insurance Group, Inc. Coverage may not be available in all jurisdictions and is subject to actual policy language. As a surplus lines insurer, Lexington Insurance Company does not generally participate in state guaranty funds. Non-insurance products and services may be provided by independent third parties. American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo. American International Group, Inc. Peter Tulupman, 212-770-3141 Public Relations Manager 
