Ace, EverestRe and PartnerRe to benefit from woes of AIG and XL, according to share analyst  Property and casualty insurers are expected to report lower investment income in the fourth quarter, according to bank and securities brokerage Wachovia. They will be hurt by catastrophe losses from worse-than-expected hurricane activity earlier in 2008, Wachovia said.  Insurers with large investment portfolios could be among the worst hit in the quarter, Wachovia said in a note to clients, referring to companies that have invested in hedge funds and private equity firms, such as XL and Max Capital.  Insurers are set to begin reporting quarterly results by the end of January. Among the first to report will be Travelers Cos Inc, Allstate and Chubb.  Wachovia cut its fourth-quarter earnings outlook for 12 insurers, including Allstate and Everest Re. However, it expects policy rates to increase as the year progresses, creating underwriting opportunities.  'Private reinsurers should have an opportunity to write more business in Florida at the June/July renewals,' Wachovia said, adding that the tough credit environment made it difficult for the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to raise enough capital to fully back its expected 2009 capacity.  Wachovia thinks Ace, EverestRe and PartnerRe Ltd are attractive shares. It said Ace is attracting business from insurance buyers seeking stable carriers, citing the financial woes of AIG, XL Capital and Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. EverestRe and PartnerRe should see a rise in demand from insurers looking to expand the number of reinsurers they buy coverage from, according to Wachovia.  Want to get the latest news from only the risk management areas youre interested in?  Dont sift through masses of emails for the stories you want. You can now customise StrategicRISK email newsletters to give you the news you need. Before it breaks across the industry.  Receive newsletters on just the risk management areas you want to hear about. You can select from newsletters covering 16 areas, including Corporate Governance, Supply Chain Management, Liabilities, Business Continuity, and Enterprise Risk Management.  Choose the types of alert you want to receive. From breaking news updates, to our category-specific alerts, you can receive as many, or as few as you want. You can even choose the day of the week to receive our weekly news round-up.  All these options are available from the main sign up page. Just tick the boxes for the options you want.  Signing up to this NEW service only takes a minute, just click here to get started.  
