DUBLIN, Ireland--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/43ab73/mexico_insurance_r  BMI's Mexico Insurance Report provides independent forecasts and competitive intelligence on Mexico's insurance industry. BMI's Mexico Insurance report has been written at a time that the global financial crisis, which arose as a result of the evaporation of inter-bank liquidity, appeared to be moving towards a resolution. The governments of the UK, the USA and most of the larger countries in the euro area have all announced plans to make funds available, in one form or another, to their respective commercial banking sectors. As yet, it is too early to identify the impact of the crisis on individual emerging markets. However, in a later section of the report, we include a lengthy essay that attempts to identify the key issues.   In Latin America, we profile 21 companies. These are AEGON, AGF, AIG, Allianz, AXA, Cardif, CNP, Generali, HDI-Talanx, HSBC Insurance, ING, Liberty Mutual, MAPFRE, MetLife, New York Life, Prudential Financial, QBE, RSA, the Hartford, Principal Financial and Zurich. We also look at various of the local firms that are active. In general, these are small-to-medium sized operations by world-standards. However, several of the leading Brazilian insurers would rank as extremely large even in a major market. For almost all the countries whose reports we are updating, we are also able to include actual data for calendar 2007: this was not the case for our Q208 reports.   In 2007, total premiums in Mexico rose by 16% to MXN193,606n. Non-life premiums rose by 18% to MXN114,228mn, while life premiums rose by 14% to MXN79,378mn. Between now and the end of the forecast period, we expect that annual non-life premiums will grow by MXN 33,611mn, while annual life premiums should increase by MX N82,820,n. Growth in non-life premiums should be driven by the general growth in nominal GDP. However, we are expecting non-life penetration to slip slightly from the current level of 1.18% of GDP to 1.10%. Growth in life premiums should be driven by the change in the overall population and a rise in life density from US$66.84 to US$120.00 per capita. BMI's Insurance Business Environment Rating for Mexico is 64.0.   Companies Mentioned:      --  AEGON     --  AIG     --  Allianz     --  Aviva     --  AXA     --  Cardif     --  Ergo     --  Eureko     --  Fortis     --  Generali     --  Grawe     --  Groupama     --  HDI-Gerling     --  HSBC Insurance     --  ING     --  MetLife     --  Prudential Financial     --  QBE, RSA     --  UNIQA     --  Vienna Insurance Group     --  Zurich   For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/43ab73/mexico_insurance_r
