Nationwide Insurance is pleased to announce new commercial auto product features with the Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement. It provides the following coverages, and more: New Vehicle Replacement Cost Coverage - Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement can cover new private passenger vehicles, or pick up trucks up to 20,000 gross vehicle weight, without depreciation, if they are in an accident resulting in a total loss. Hired Auto Physical Damage with Loss of Use Coverage - Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement can cover rental vehicles for collision or comprehensive coverage, if the business also purchased hired auto liability coverage, and has collision &amp;amp; comprehensive coverages on owned vehicles. Auto Loan or Lease Coverage - If a leased vehicle is a total loss because of an accident, Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement can cover the difference between the unpaid amount on the loan or lease and the actual cash value of the vehicle. Expanded Towing - Standard business auto policies do not provide towing coverage for trucks. With Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement, Nationwide Insurance covers trucks and private passenger autos for the cost of towing, jump starts, and minor roadside repairs. Rental Reimbursement - Standard business auto policies do not pay for a rental car, but Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement makes sure that business owners are covered when they need a replacement vehicle. Personal Effects of Insured and Property of Others - Nationwide's Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement provides $250 of coverage for property of others that is in a business' custody or control while it is being transported. It also provides $500 for personal property of the insured that is lost or damaged while being transported, with no deductible. The Commercial Auto Plus Endorsement is available through Nationwide Insurance agents. To find an agent or to learn more about business insurance, visit www.nationwide.com/small-business-insurance.jsp. Nationwide, based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the world, with more than $161 billion in assets. Nationwide ranks 108th on the Fortune 500 list. The company provides a full range of insurance and financial services, including auto, homeowners, life, health, commercial insurance, administrative services, annuities, mutual funds, pensions and long-term savings plans. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com. Nationwide and the Nationwide Framework are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. On Your Side is a service mark of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. Nationwide Insurance Liz Christopher, 614-249-7705 christe1@nationwide.com 
