But insurer's regulator Dinallo backs company's methodical approach to selling assets  (Reuters)New York insurance regulator Eric Dinallo, the man overseeing AIGs sales of assets to repay a hefty government loan, on Tuesday said CEO Edward Liddys efforts to fix the insurer are beginning to pay off.  Mr. Dinallo, AIGs main regulator, vouched for Mr. Liddys efforts on the sidelines of an industry event late on Tuesday. Some lawmakers have criticised Mr. Liddy for AIGs hosting of a costly executive retreat and a decision to pay retention bonuses to ward off staff defections.  Edward Liddy has to make decisions...and he should not be second guessed, Mr. Dinallo told reporters.  Mr. Dinallo said that nearly four months into the job Mr. Liddy was already engaged in transactions that would help the insurer pay down taxpayer debt.  He gave Mr. Liddy the plug even as AIGs retention payment plan proved less than successful. The insurer has in recent months lost key employees, including Kevin Kelley, a highly-respected executive who long led AIG unit Lexington Insurance Co.  Mr. Liddy, who retired from home and auto insurer Allstate Corp last spring, was pressed into service at AIG by U.S. officials in September as taxpayers put up $85 billion to rescue the firm, and has accepted a first-year salary of $1.  To date, Mr. Liddy has reached agreements for the sales ofU.S. specialty insurer HSB Group, a private bank in Switzerland and untangled several partnerships. Earlier this week, the insurer announced the sale of its Canadian life insurance unit to BMO Financial for about $300 million.  That deal brings the grand total for AIGs major asset sales to right around $1 billion.  More asset sales are expected, including a large chunk of its life insurance operations, an asset management division, and what has been a highly profitable aircraft leasing business, to raise funds to repay a $60 billion loan, which is part of a total bailout that ballooned to about $150 billion in November.  The sales should not be fire sales, said Mr. Dinallo on Tuesday.  Under revised terms for the government loan, AIG has up to five years to sell off assets, up from two years it was first given to repay borrowings.  Even with a longer horizon to repay taxpayers, and signs that its sale process is gaining steam, analysts say AIGs future is not assured.  How quickly AIGs forced asset sales proceed and whether the governments position in AIGs capital structure is subject to change each remain unquantifiable issues that could unlock or suffocate value, analyst Joshua Shanker said in a note to clients on Tuesday.  More on this Topic  AIG to sell Canadian outfit to BMO Financial 1/13/2009 12:15:19 PM  Money management firms sift through cut-out bin for acquisitions 1/13/2009 8:19:15 AM  Months later, pall still hangs over muni market 1/12/2009 12:03:57 AM  Insurers' underwriting standards to tighten: Marsh CEO 1/9/2009 3:32:11 PM  AIG yanks $93 million in quickie payouts after Dems squawk 1/8/2009 1:50:05 PM  Related Topics &amp; Web Content  Reproductions and distribution of the above article are strictly prohibited. To order reprints and/or request permission to use the article in full or partial format please contact our Reprint Sales Manager at (732) 723-0569.  
