Regional lender Bank of Queensland Ltd is on the lookout for takeover opportunities, which has been made possible as asset prices tumbled because of the global financial crisis.  The bank released a statement on Thursday launching a formal review process, Project Pathways, to investigate how to keep growing the business.  'Project Pathways will review a series of options to further enhance our ongoing growth, including strategic partnerships, complementary merger opportunities and new business strategies such as portfolio optimisation and efficiency initiatives,' chief executive David Liddy said in the statement.  'There are a number of opportunities which already exist in the marketplace, so we think its prudent to do a fulsome examination.'  Project Pathways is expected to take approximately six months to complete, and the bank's major shareholder, Linfox, supports the review.  The bank also announced it will offer eligible shareholders the chance to buy up to $10,000 of shares at a discount, as the Brisbane-based bank aims to boost its capital position.  The offer price will be the lesser of a 7.5 per cent discount to the volume weighted average price over the five days up to the offer or $10.08.  Bank of Qld shares closed at $10.27 on Wednesday.  The bank said there were no other costs to shareholders in the offer. It has appointed ABN Amro Morgans as lead manager of the plan.  Chairman Neil Summerson will say in a speech to be given at the bank's annual general meeting in Brisbane later on Thursday morning that Bank of Qld will use the share sale to strengthen its capital position.  'This offer is part of the Bank's continuing plan to actively and effectively manage its capital base and to fund future growth for the bank,' he said in a copy of the speech submitted to the Australian Securities Exchange.  Mr Summerson also said the credit crisis, and subsequent changes in the Australian banking industry, including the takeovers of regional lenders St George Bank Ltd and Bank of Western Australia, would create opportunities for the bank to grow.  'We need to ensure that the bank is in a position to take full advantage of these opportunities,' he said.  
