The Sri Lanka unit of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) (BSE: 530965) has unwound some oil derivatives it bought earlier in 2008, but is left with 70,000 barrels worth of deals that will expire next year, a top official said.   Lanka IOC says it has also bought downside protection for the deals at different levels for remaining contracts. It has 10,000 barrels outstanding with Commercial Bank and the balance with Citibank. 'We wound up some contracts. We bought protection at different levels,' managing director R Ramakrishnan said. 'The majority of contracts expire in June and July and some in August.' Lanka IOC imports about 300,000 barrels of refined products a month.   Ramakrishnan says the remaining contracts include ones based on WTI oil at around 90 US dollars. There was also protection at 70 dollars. 'We did a lot of balancing,' he said. 'It is manageable.' Sri Lanka's petroleum and banking sector is in turmoil after the island's Supreme Court halted payments to banks from state-run Ceylon Petroleum Corporation (CPC), on oil derivatives to Citibank, Standard Chartered, Commercial Bank and state-run People's Bank.   Lanka IOC says it is honoring all contracts.   Lanka IOC had bought protection in consultation with banks by paying a premium, though oil prices have now fallen further.   CPC however had no permission to pay premiums, because it was limited by the cabinet to 'zero-cost' instruments.   In Sri Lanka, banks have been blamed for selling a complex product with no downside protection or a 'knockout'. But the derivative is based on a structure used in securities markets known as a target accrual redemption note (TARN).   They are also known as leveraged target redemption forwards or swaps. The attraction for an oil distributor was that it was 'zero-cost', or no payment was involved. But it got 'knocked out' after accumulating about five dollars a month a barrel for three months.   Under a 'zero-cost' structure, the oil distributor wrote an option, earned a premium and used it to buy an option giving upside protection.   The upside risk was capped for taking on a downside risk. By doubling the downside risk (leveraging) the upside benefit could be increased.   The contracts were also 'in-the-money' or profitable from the start. Analysts say such benefits cannot be given without taking substantial downside risks. 
