1 hour 33 mins ago  Sky News  One of Britain's largest car-parts groups Wagon Automotive, which employs 500 people in the UK, has gone into administration. Skip related content  Price by  PriceStock prices  Company name  Percentage change  it comes after Wagon failed to secure a funding package which would have kept it going for another three months.  The Birmingham-based firm, which has plants in Coventry and Walsall and across Europe, has appointed restructuring firm Zolfo Cooper as its administrator.  In a statement Zolfo Cooper said Wagon would continue to trade as a going concern while administrators 'explore options for its future'.  The statement said none of the firm's 'entities' abroad had filed for UK Administration.  It added: 'Regrettably, a small number of redundancies are expected at the head office site.'  Wagon, which has an annual turnover of 860m, employs a further 4,000 staff across Europe, making 4,500 in all.  Its fate was reportedly sealed when lenders, led by Government-backed Royal Bank of Scotland, refused to contribute 10.4m to a 43.3m funding package.  Shares in the firm were suspended in October after it reported a 'steep deterioration' in the European car market and said it was in funding talks.  Wagon is controlled by American billionaire Wilbur Ross, who made his fortune investing in 'sunset' industries like coal and steel.  He bought it with a view to building up a Europe-wide car-parts empire.  But Wagon has struggled in the face of competition from low-cost rivals and the slump in the car industry.  At Walsall, it makes panels and door parts for Honda, Ford, General Motors, Land Rover and Nissan.  At its smaller Coventry plant, it makes shock absorbers for non-automotive clients including the liftmakers Otis and Schindler.  Wagon has a further 20 plants on the continent, where its biggest clients are Renault, Peugeot and Citron.  :: Barclays bank is to shed 109 jobs in Cardiff under plans to outsource work in a department dealing with accounts when a customer dies.  The Unite trade union has urged the company to reconsider because of the sensitive nature of the work.  Latest Business news  3 mins ago  18 mins ago  51 mins ago  Supermarket chain Morrisons has once again taken the More  1 hour 12 mins ago  1 hour 24 mins ago  The co-founder of Carphone Warehouse has quit his post as More  1 hour 47 mins ago  2 hours 22 mins ago  2 hours 28 mins ago  One of the largest churches in America's car-making More  2 hours 46 mins ago  3 hours 4 mins ago  Qantas Airways warned investors its proposed $5.6 More  3 hours 13 mins ago  British, French and European leaders will meet in London on More  
