CLEARWATER, Fla., Dec. 11 /PRNewswire/ --  eMASON, Inc.'s Chief Executive Officer and founder Jane Mason was announced as a finalist for the 2008 Tampa Bay CEO of the Year award by Tampa Bay CEO Magazine. Recognized for her vision and leadership, Mason was selected as top executive in the Technology category, as well as the overall CEO category.  eMASON, Inc. is a next-generation software provider specializing in web-based process automation for the financial services industry in all environments. Mason conceptualized, designed and executed Clarifire(R), a business-driven, web-based process automation software application -- providing standardization, real-time data collaboration, and an end-to-end business solution to streamline business processes. Key clients include Bank of America and Fannie Mae.  The Clarifire application generates a competitive advantage by providing reduced costs of doing business, increased productivity, and the ability to effectively manage increased volumes with proven results. The application presents process automation, document and image management, along with data management in a way that enterprises can quickly master regardless of technical background. It can be used to make any business process simple, and is currently used by leading companies and organizations for bankruptcy, foreclosure, loss mitigation, REO, loan and default servicing management, property management, human resources, and project management.  Committed to being at the forefront of her industry, Mason has built eMASON into a leading financial services technology company in the U.S. Under Mason's leadership, eMASON has grown nearly 100 percent in 2008, including increasing the client base, doubling the number of employees, and expanding the new headquarters location. eMASON is based in Clearwater, Florida.  Mason previously served for over 15 years as Chief Operating Officer for an international law firm, which practiced intellectual property and real estate law. She redefined client-focused service by applying innovative, web based technology to the company's key processes and operations.  The Tampa Bay CEO of the Year Awards honors the achievements of Tampa Bay's top executives. The publication will announce winners December 11, 2008, at the Awards Gala at the Pepin Hospitality Center in Tampa, Florida.  For more information on eMASON, please visit www.emason.biz. More information on Tampa Bay CEO of the Year is available at www.tampabayceo.com.  Contacts: Roseann Wentworth eMASON, Inc. 866.222.3370 (M) 813.579.7592 roseannw@emason.biz  SOURCE eMASON, Inc.  
