The Times BUOYANT FLOAT FOR RESOLUTION Resolution, Clive Cowdery's acquisition vehicle generated immediate paper profits for its investors on Wednesday when it was floated for the first time. Standard Life, Legal &amp;amp; General, M&amp;amp;G and Insight Investments all gained as shares in Resolution climbed as high as 115 pence from last week's issue price of 100 pence. Royal London Asset Management is also believed to have bought shares in Resolution, which raised a total of 600 million pounds. Investors who subscribed to the shares will be offered first refusal in any capital raising. Resolution could raise another 60 million pounds if the banks charged with its listing decide to release 60 million additional shares. CHESTERTON MERGER WITH HUMBERTS MARKS ESTATE AGENCY EXIT BY TCHENGUIZ It was announced on Wednesday that estate agencies Chesterton and Humberts are to merge. The Mercantile Group, which owns the latter, has bought a 50 percent stake in the former, held by Vincent Tchenguiz, for an undisclosed sum. Mercantile acquired half of Chesterton in 2005, while Tchenguiz bought the remainder through his property investment vehicle Consensus Business Group. Mercantile snapped up Humberts in June for 3.16 million pounds when the company fell into administration. The development marks Tchenguiz's exit from Britain's ailing estate agency sector. The Daily Telegraph CLOSING DOWN SALE STARTS AT WOOLIES Woolworths administrator Deloitte said closing down sales will begin on Thursday morning in all 800 of the stricken retailer's stores, casting doubt on last-ditch bids to save the chain by David Buchler, the former Tottenham Hotspur vice-chairman, and former Kingfisher chairman Sir Geoff Mulcahy. Deloitte said: 'While we are still seeking bids from interested parties, Christmas is clearly the busiest time of the year for retailers and it is prudent to do all we can to sell existing stock.' FRIENDS SIGNS 200 MILLION POUND IBM DEAL Friends Provident has outsourced its IT and infrastructure services to IBM in a 10-year deal worth 200 million pounds. The arrangement is part of a strategic review unveiled by the life insurer in January and is estimated to generate an initial saving of six million pounds a year, a figure which is expected to rise over the term of the contract. Under the agreement, Friends will transfer around 200 employees to IBM. PRUDENTIAL AMONG AIG ASSET BIDDERS Prudential is one of three insurance companies, along with Axa and Metlife, on the list of bidders looking to snap up parts of American Insurance Group . The trio are understood to have begun initial talks with AIG about various deals, with Chinese sovereign wealth fund CIC also circling. The discussions are focused on AIG's international life savings business outside the United States, American Life Insurance Co, with a deal expected to close in the new year. The Independent JJB WINS REPRIEVE ON 20 MILLION POUND LOAN Retailer JJB Sports has agreed with its banks to delay the full repayment of a 20 million pound bridging loan from Kaupthing. However, the sports group has warned sales had dropped 7.5 percent lower over the last four months and that it had been unable to find buyers for its fitness chain or its loss-making Life unit's Qube and Original Shoe footwear chains. ERSKINE TO REPLACE SIR IAN AT LADBROKES Peter Erskine, the former chief executive of O2, is to take on the role of chairman at bookmakers Ladbrokes. Erskine will join the board in January and take over at the AGM in May. Erskine is credited with the transformation of O2's fortunes after it was demerged from BT. Erskine also presided over the sale of O2 to Telefonica, where he remains a non-executive director. Christopher Bell, chief executive of Ladbrokes, said the bookmaker would benefit from Erskine's 'extensive international marketing background and experience of building brand-led businesses'. Erskine will replace Sir Ian Robinson, who was previously chief executive of Scottish Power. The Guardian TV SHOPPING CHANNEL CUTS JOBS AFTER 'GOD-AWFUL' TRADING The TV shopping channel company Ideal Shopping Direct said it expected to incur a four million pound loss this financial year and announced it will be cutting its workforce by 15 percent. A company spokeswoman called the four million pound figure 'prudent' and said Ideal was not alone in suffering 'a God-awful' November. The shares slumped nearly 66 percent after the announcement before recovering to close 14.5 pence down at 36 pence. RIO TINTO SHEDS 14,000 JOBS TO CUT 40 BILLION DOLLAR DEBT Rio Tinto is to shelve 3.4 billion pounds worth of new projects and slash 14,000 jobs in a bid for 'survival' in the face of falling commodity prices. The miner has been under pressure to reduce 40 billion dollars of debt and the City was relieved at the decision, the shares climbing by just over 20 percent to 1514 pence on the announcement. Tom Albanese, chief executive, said: 'We will minimise our operating and capital costs until we see credible and meaningful signs of a recovery in our markets, but will retain our strategic growth options.' PEARSON BUYS NORWEGIAN ONLINE EDUCATION FIRM Pearson has strengthened its education division with the acquisition of Norwegian online learning business Fronter. The group, which owns Penguin Books and the Financial Times, said it would buy the company from co-founders Bjarne Hadland and Roger Larsen as well as other private investors including employees of the company. The firm has more than 3,000 customers and offices in 10 countries, with gross assets that were worth 6.6 million pounds at the end of June. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants Keywords: PRESS DIGEST British business Dec 11 COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
