Few bankers would invite regulatory scrutiny during an economic downturn by describing their lending strategy as 'walking the edge of a cliff without falling off.' But Ken Wilcox, the president and chief executive of the $7.5 billion-asset , is not most bankers. 'I don't want to be too confident, but we've gotten pretty good in our 25-year history of walking the edge of the cliff without falling off - meaning, lending just about as loose as you reasonably can without losing too much money,' Mr. Wilcox, 60, said in an interview. 'When somebody starts to do it looser and cheaper, they're going to go over the cliff sooner or later.' The willingness to take risks is all the more striking when you consider his company's  was hit hard by the dot-com bust. But one thing more important in the bank's culture is something Mr. Wilcox brought when he took control in 1999: getting to know clients and their prospects for success.  His approach was to expand Silicon Valley's reach and product offerings while narrowing its focus to four niche industries: technology, life sciences, private equity, and premium wine.  Since 2004 its price-to-book ratio has consistently beaten that of other banks its size, and the gap has increased sharply.  For steering his company through challenging times and emerging with a stronger and more diversified company, American Banker has named Mr. Wilcox one of its three Community Bankers of the Year for 2008.  Founded in 1983 in the southern part of the San Francisco Bay Area,  began by lending to semiconductor chip manufacturers when the venture capital industry was still in its infancy. Today SVB does business with 550 venture capital firms worldwide, providing treasury management, loans, deposits, asset management, and commercial banking services. Various subsidiaries offer valuations and analytics to 11,000 corporate clients and invest directly in venture capital firms through a family of funds.  The company has followed its clients overseas, opening offices in London, Bangalore, Shanghai, Israel, and Mumbai.  loses 15% to 20% of its customers each year as they get swallowed by larger companies, said Mr. Wilcox, who became the president and CEO of the bank and its parent, then called Silicon Valley Bancshares, in 2001. That churn is a challenge, he said, but it also seems to indicate a competitive edge. 'From the point of view of normal lending, the early-stage market is highly risky, because  [rival banks] don't understand it,' he said. 'It's not formula-driven lending as much as it is character lending. We really do know everybody. We know not only all the venture firms; we know all the partners in all the venture firms, and most of the CEOs are repeat CEOs. That's a huge investment to know everybody.' Though SVB is still making money, its third-quarter earnings fell 29% from a year earlier, to $27 million. But average loans grew 12.6%, to $4.86 billion, and Mike Descheneaux, its chief financial officer, told investors in October that his company has had 'virtually no chargeoffs in 18 years.' Frederick Cannon, chief equity strategist at KBW Inc.'s , said  'continues to dominate the niche lending to both start-up technology companies and venture capital firms.' Mr. Wilcox said one reason for its success is an emphasis on employee recognition and identification with the brand. He created a corporate culture based on Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs, a theory proposed by Abraham Maslow in 1943 that outlines five specific areas of fulfillment, where lower-level human needs must be met before higher-level ones can be addressed. 'People like to have positive work experiences with each other,' Mr. Wilcox said. 'They've got to grow in their jobs and be given new challenges.' He estimates that it takes 65 employees to create a product or deliver a service successfully to a client. 'What we do is a team sport, because every product and service that we deliver, every problem that we solve, is so difficult and complex that it requires a wide variety of people,' he said. 'We have 55 first languages spoke here; that means people grew up in that many different cultures.' Half of his bank's 1,200 employees in 27 U.S. branches had never worked at a bank before joining Silicon Valley.  For years, an employee who had been a concierge at a  in Boston was the bank's highest revenue generator; he worked in the factoring division. 'The two most important things you can know about a company are its strategy and its culture, and in my view, culture ultimately trumps strategy,' Mr. Wilcox said. 'What we're delivering in the end is happiness. If you make a client happy, even if the problem is not 100% solved, you've probably got a client that will stay with you.' He grew up in Flint, Mich., where his father taught at the . His mother spoke German, and he majored in German studies at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich., and went on to earn a Ph.D. in German from . After teaching the language for two years at the  at Chapel Hill, Mr. Wilcox decided to change careers, because he said he 'didn't like being poor.' He applied to  when a friend suggested that banking was similar to academia. (He doesn't agree.) After graduating from Harvard, Mr. Wilcox received job offers from  in Boston. 'Somebody at Bank of Boston took me aside in the interview and said, 'You're really going to like it here, because they're all people like us,' ' he said. The executive 'didn't know that I had grown up poor, and I was so incensed at that that I took  [Shawmut's] lesser offer.'
