BANKERS to the financially stricken Centro Properties are expected to sign a deal today that will throw the giant retail landlord a financial lifeline.  The group's two syndicates of lenders are tipped to give Centro more time to repay its mountain of debts, seeing the company's plight as a bellwether of how well the domestic and US economies will be able to resist current recessionary pressures.  Centro is the second biggest retail landlord in Australia, after Westfield, and is in the top 10 in the United States.  It has about $2.3 billion of debt that must be rolled over or paid for by close of business today, while a further $US450 million ($A684 million) owed to private US noteholders also falls due.  Centro's shopping centres are performing well, with the management fees earned by the group paying off its interest cover. And unlike other troubled real estate groups, Centro has well-supported underlying assets.  But it has been unable to generate cash by selling properties to reduce its debt burden.  At the group's annual meeting on November 28, Centro's chairman, Paul Cooper, warned that 'in the event that the lending group does not extend the agreements, Centro would be in default of its debt covenants'.  BusinessDay believes that the banking syndicate met Centro's chief executive, Glenn Rufrano, last week to thrash out the refinancing plan, including a debt/equity issue. It is believed they have now reached an agreement.  At the last extension on September 29, Mr Rufrano said a proposal was being discussed with the banks to issue a form of hybrid security while the group embarked on asset sales.  But Mr Rufrano, who leaves Australia for New York in January but will continue as chief executive, said the profitable option was for Centro to remain the manager of the centres to generate fees, despite the sale of the underlying property.  Centro's bankers in the Australian-led syndicate are the Commonwealth Bank, National Australia Bank, ANZ, the German bank WestLB, BNP Paribas, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, JPMorgan and the Royal Bank of Scotland.  The American banking syndicate members include Bank of America, Wachovia, KeyBank and JPMorgan.  Investors are hopeful that a deal offered to Babcock &amp;amp; Brown last month will be repeated with Centro. That would lead to the banks effectively owning the group, with the present management remaining as custodian, keeping the business afloat.  It was December 17 last year when Centro's former management, led by Andrew Scott, told investors the company was close to bankruptcy and had no cash to repay its financiers.  That saw its securities collapse by about 80 per cent in a day and brought the full impact of the credit crunch home to this country.  Last week Centro's securities closed at 8.7 cents, a far cry from the high of about $10 before the 2007 collapse.  But in a recent note to clients, Simon Wheatley of Goldman Sachs JBWere warned that even if another debt extension was granted, in the longer term there had been damage to Centro's brand.  
