By Mette Fraende SYDNEY, Dec 9 (Reuters) - Westpac Banking Corp, Australia's second-largest lender, is raising $1.7 billion from a share sale to bolster its balance sheet as bad debt charges rise and it beds down a recent major acquisition. Westpac shares were suspended on Tuesday pending the institutional share issue, but rival bank stocks fell sharply. The A$2.5 billion fund raising is the latest in what is expected to be a string of capital raisings by Asia Pacific banks that largely escaped the worst of the subprime mortgage fallout battering U.S. and European peers, but that are now looking to shore up their balance sheets amid economic slowdowns at home. Japan's leading banks, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group and Mizuho Financial Group, recently raised a total of more than $8 billion to replenish capital drained by a global stock market slide. Shares in top lender National Australia Bank (NAB) fell 5 percent, third-ranked Commonwealth Bank of Australia lost 7 percent and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ) was off nearly 3 percent at 0220 GMT. The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index fell 1.6 percent. Westpac said in a statement its performance in October and November, the first two months of its fiscal year, had been sound but suffered from higher impairment provisions on troubled corporate debt. Last month, Commonwealth Bank warned investors to expect a big jump in bad debts, just days after National Australia Bank said it was raising A$3 billion to strengthen its balance sheet. George Clapham, head of equities at Fortis Investment Partners, said Westpac's share sale reflected Australian banks' need to boost their Tier-1 capital ratios to satisfy lenders offshore. 'They've just got to raise capital because they're trying to get offshore funding, and people won't look at them until they've got a ratio in the 8's,' Clapham said. Tier-1 capital is the core measure of a bank's financial strength from a regulator's point of view. Banks are required to maintain a certain level of ultra-liquid Tier-1 capital as a cushion for depositors in case of a crisis. Commonwealth Bank's current Tier-1 ratio is below the 8 percent mark, at 7.5 percent, according to its trading update last month, and the bank is expected by analysts to raise A$1-A$1.5 billion, possibly before Christmas. 'It was touted that the two most vulnerable banks that may need to increase Tier-1 capital ratio will be CBA and Westpac. And now we've got Westpac coming to the market with a placement, the realisation is kicking in that CBA may be next,' said Shaw Stockbroking dealer Jamie Spiteri. Westpac said its share issue, fully underwritten by JP Morgan, UBS and Morgan Stanley, would bring its Tier-1 capital ratio to around 8.32 percent after taking into account its $9 billion takeover of rival St George Bank, which was completed this month. The bank is offering the new shares at A$16 each, a 10.5 percent discount to its Monday close, and is taking advantage of a rally in financial stocks over the past few days as more governments around the world announced massive economic stimulus plans. Westpac shares peaked in November last year at A$31.32 and have dropped 36 percent this year. The benchmark index has lost 43 percent.
