Highlights  US$175 million equity investment at C$0.85 (or ZAR 6.8) per share, representing a premium of 67% to the closing share price on the TSX on December 8, 2008 and a premium of 36% to the 30 day average VWAP  Transaction raises sufficient equity funding to complete construction of the Pilanesberg Platinum Project  Platmin will remain unhedged with no additional debt  Once the Moepi Exchange is completed, Platmin will acquire a 100% interest in Boynton and secure control over its cash flows  Pallinghurst and Bakgatla to become the major shareholders in Platmin  Platmin provides update on Pilanesberg Platinum Project  Platmin announces revised estimated operating cash cost of approximately US$400/oz 3PGE+Au which is in lowest quartile for the PGM industry  Capital expenditures remain on-time and on-budget  First production of PGM concentrate on schedule for March 2009  December 9, 2008 Toronto: Platmin Limited (the 'Company' or 'Platmin', TSX/AIM: PPN) announced today that it has entered into an investors and subscription agreement (the 'Agreement') with, among others, Ivy Lane Capital Limited, being the Pallinghurst Investor Consortium's investment vehicle ('Pallinghurst') and the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela Tribe ('Bakgatla') and Bakgatla Pallinghurst JV (Proprietary) Limited ('BPJV', a company jointly owned by Pallinghurst and Bakgatla as to 49.9% and 50.1% respectively), to issue, by way of private placement, a total of 258,416,038 common shares of Platmin (the 'Common Shares') in two tranches for gross proceeds of US$125 million and ZAR 500 million respectively (an aggregate of approximately US$175 million). The transaction will include (i) the private placement; and (ii) the exchange of shares of Platmin's operating subsidiary Boynton Investments (Proprietary) Limited ('Boynton') for newly issued common shares of Platmin such that Platmin will acquire an 100% indirect equity interest in Boynton, ((i) and (ii) collectively, the 'Transaction'). Further details of the Transaction are set out below. The Company is applying to the TSX for an exemption from the shareholder approval requirements to complete the Transaction, on the basis of the financial hardship exemption available under section 604(e) of the TSX Company Manual.  First Tranche  Pallinghurst has subscribed for 184,886,627 Common Shares at a purchase price of C$0.85 (or ZAR 6.8) per Common Share, for a total consideration of approximately US$125 million, based on the exchange rate on December 8, 2008 (the 'First Tranche'). Subject to requisite regulatory approvals, the closing date of the First Tranche is expected to be no later than December 19, 2008. Upon closing of the First Tranche, Pallinghurst will hold approximately 62.4% of the then issued and outstanding common shares of Platmin.  Brian Gilbertson, Chairman of Pallinghurst and Arne Frandsen, CEO of BPJV, will join the board of directors of Platmin on completion of the First Tranche. In addition, at such time, Rupert Pardoe will resign from the board of directors of Platmin, and Keith Liddell, currently Deputy Chairman of the Company, will become Chairman. Jay Kellerman and Ron Little have also announced that they will not stand for re-election as directors and suitable replacements will be sought in due course.  The net proceeds of the First Tranche will be used principally to complete the development of the Company's Pilanesberg Platinum Project.  Second Tranche  Pursuant to the Agreement, Platmin will issue 73,529,411 Common Shares to the Bakgatla through BPJV or Pallinghurst, as applicable, on or before March 31, 2009 at a per share purchase price of either ZAR 6.80 or US$0.67609 (C$0.85 based on the exchange rate on December 8, 2008) for a total purchase consideration of ZAR 500 million (the 'Second Tranche'). BPJV will be the subscriber for the Second Tranche Common Shares if, on or before March 20, 2009: (i) Platmin has listed its common shares for trading on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange; (ii) BPJV receives approval of the Exchange Control Division of the South African Reserve Bank ('SARB') for the subscription and listing, and (iii) other conditions are satisfied. If these conditions have not been satisfied prior to March 20, 2009 then Pallinghurst will subscribe for the Second Tranche in place of BPJV on March 31, 2009.  If BPJV is the subscriber of the Second Tranche, then Pallinghurst will transfer 73,235,880 of the Common Shares acquired in the First Tranche into BPJV in order to maintain the 50.1% Bakgatla : 49.9% Pallinghurst ownership ratio of BPJV.  Upon completion of the Second Tranche, Pallinghurst and/or BPJV will collectively hold approximately 258,416,038 common shares, representing 69.8%, of the then issued and outstanding shares of Platmin.  The net proceeds of the Second Tranche will be used principally to complete the development of the Company's Pilanesberg Platinum Project. Pallinghurst's investment in the Company through the Transaction is intended primarily to provide the Company with the required funding to complete the project.  Moepi Group to exchange Boynton shares for Platmin shares  Moepi Platinum (Proprietary) Limited, Moepi Uranium (Proprietary) Limited and Sengani Family Mining and Exploration (Proprietary) Limited (collectively, the 'Moepi Group') collectively hold approximately 27.61% of the issued and outstanding shares of Platmin's operating subsidiary Boynton. Bakgatla and Pallinghurst hold a controlling interest in Moepi Group via BPJV.   Pursuant to the Agreement, the Moepi Group will, by March 31, 2010, and subject to certain conditions, including completion of the First Tranche and Second Tranche, exchange its 27.61% interest in Boynton for common shares of Platmin (the 'Moepi Exchange'). The maximum number of shares to be issued is capped at 27.61% of the then issued and outstanding shares, which would be approximately 141,100,000 common shares. The formula to determine the number of common shares to be received by the Moepi Group upon the exchange is set out in the Agreement and will be calculated by an independent investment bank at the time of the Moepi Exchange.  The Moepi Exchange is conditional upon, among other things, the approval of the TSX. The Company is applying for use of the financial hardship exemption, given the contingency of needing to obtain the approval of SARB and the South African Department of Minerals and Energy, which approvals are expected to take up to one year to obtain.  Rupert Pardoe, outgoing Chairman of Platmin, said 'We are very pleased to announce this major financing in difficult markets and to recognize the support of Pallinghurst and the Bakgatla Community. This transaction will secure the future of Platmin and allow it to complete the construction of the Pilanesberg Mine Project and hence become a major low-cost independent platinum producer.' Keith Liddell, incoming Chairman of Platmin commented, 'We are appreciative of the leadership that Rupert Pardoe has shown during these difficult market conditions and thank him for guiding Platmin through its course from IPO to mine construction. We look forward to working with Pallinghurst, the Bakgatla and our other stakeholders to complete the development of the Pilanesberg mine and take Platmin to its next stage of corporate development.' Brian Gilbertson, Chairman of Pallinghurst said 'The demand for PGM's will be huge in years to come, and so we are pleased to increase our ownership of this robust venture, which is about to commence production, and which holds the promise of future growth via regional consolidation.' The Transaction remain subject to the acceptance and approval of the TSX.  Background to the Transaction  As previously announced, the Company had intended to secure the additional financing required to complete the Pilanesberg Platinum Project by way of a project loan facility to be underwritten by the Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and Standard Chartered Bank. However, as both the credit and PGM commodity prices deteriorated, it became clear that such a facility could not be obtained on the terms envisaged. On May 14, 2008, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a ZAR350 million bridge loan facility with Standard Bank of South Africa ('Bridge Loan') which would otherwise be repayable on December 31, 2008 (having been extended from December 1, 2008). As a consequence of the pending bridge repayment and other existing contractual arrangements relating to the development and construction of the Pilanesberg Platinum Project, Platmin was facing serious financial difficulty. In the absence of the Transaction, the Company could not expect to meet all of its contractual commitments incurred in order to complete the development of the Pilanesberg Platinum Project.  Pallinghurst approached the Company with an equity offering as an alternative to a debt facility. Because the nature of the offer would result in a change in control of the Company the board of directors established a committee of independent directors (the 'Independent Committee') consisting of Rupert Pardoe, Ron Little and Jay Kellerman. The Independent Committee engaged CIBC World Markets Inc. to act as financial advisor to the Company. The Transaction is the result of the ongoing efforts of the Independent Committee and CIBC World Markets Inc. to secure the additional funds required to meet the ongoing financial needs of Platmin, and its operating subsidiary, Boynton, and in particular to complete the development of the Pilanesberg Platinum Project.  The Company continues to work with Standard Bank with a view to extending the existing Bridge Loan.  Under Part VI of the TSX Company Manual, absent an exemption, shareholder approval in connection with the Transaction is required on the grounds that the issuance of 184,886,627 Common Shares to Pallinghurst under the First Tranche will result in Pallinghurst controlling 62.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of Platmin, thereby...
