lion merger  14:00pm   Indigenous charity receives $10m boost  13:52pm   13:50pm   Construction starts on WA power station  13:19pm   Red tape weighs on SMEs: research  13:07pm   ACCC approves BankWest sale  12:31pm   FMG plead not guilty to cyclone deaths  11:55am   Mincor halts production, cuts costs  11:04am   Rate cuts boost home loans: economists  Publisher Fairfax Media has today named Brian McCarthy as its new chief executive and managing director, as had been widely expected.  The Fairfax board also declared its 'unanimous support' for chairman Ron Walker, following reports last week that his position was in doubt.  Fairfax also warned shareholders their dividend payout for the first half would fall as the company retained funds to pay down debt, against the backdrop of a significant deterioration in the global economic outlook.  It has cut its dividend payout ratio - the percentage of earnings paid to shareholders in dividends - to about 20 per cent, from 80 per cent, for its interim dividend payable in March 2009.  Mr McCarthy, formerly deputy chief executive of Fairfax and the former managing director of Rural Press, replaces David Kirk who resigned last week.  'Fairfax Media has benefited enormously by his achievements as deputy CEO and CEO, Australia, where he has managed the Australian publishing and printing assets,' Mr Walker said in a statement.  'Mr McCarthy is the right person with the right experience at this time to run the company.'  His appointment is effective immediately.  Fairfax said it was well positioned to manage the economic downturn.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
