The Titanic is half-way under and the small Latin American country of Panama is a life raft that will keep some safe as it bucks the global economic trend. The 90 banks of Panama's international financial center have not been affected by the crisis. According to Joseph Salterio, the former CEO of HSBC Panama 'what took place in the U.S. financial market could not happen here.' Although the life raft is small, there are investment opportunities in the country and an internet portal which came online this week shows the way.   Focus Publications (Int) S.A. the leading business and tourism publishing company in Panama, launched its multimedia content portal Panama Business and Travel (www.panamabusinessandtravel.com). Through several strategic partnerships with technology-based companies in the US and the investment bank Briggs Capital (www.briggscapital.com) in Boston Massachusetts, Focus Publications provides the international investment community with news on the country of Panama, as well as a full service internet directory for the country. It is the largest content-based business and travel portal in Panama. The technology behind Panama Business and Travel has taken us two years to develop and a total of ten years of experience in the industry to prepare for this launch, said Ken Jones in an interview from Panama City, in the Republic of Panama. Jones went on to say, We are very fortunate to see years of publishing s come to life again in this portal and consequently an advertising medium that surpasses anything available in the world today. Panama Business and Travel with over 5,000 pages of content to date and adding pages daily, expects to generate millions of visitors monthly.   Jose Goldner, Principal in Panama Business and Travel said, Our technology allows us to focus on targeted keywords used in Google and bring this targeted traffic to our client websites. Goldner added: By delivering specific visitors looking for specific services, Panama Business and Travel will generate business transactions across a variety of industries in the country of Panama. Panama Business and Travel has established various press partnerships to expose day-to-day business news about Panama and its economy.' Rod Robertson, managing partner of Briggs Capital who has been instrumental in driving investment to Panama said: 'PBT will specialize in a variety of technological solutions and internet advertising strategies to expose investment opportunities in Panama. Understanding search engine algorithms and search engine optimization is the zenith of International business. It has become the fastest growth model for many international businesses. It is a pleasure to witness an advertising medium that packs media impact, measurable results and of course return on investments Robertson ended. ##
