Westpac's $2.5 billion, $16-a-share placement and $500 million retail companion offer stopped the Australian market from following another solid lead from Wall Street yesterday, but it was actually another encouraging sign that the building blocks for a recovery are being put in place.  The financial crisis and the economic slump it has produced will do the usual thing over the next year or so - cull the weak. Stronger groups need to be in a position to step into the gaps that are created, and Westpac's issue is the latest example.  It is a response that puts the good work the Rudd Government is doing on the fiscal front into perspective.  Its $10.4 billion Christmas bonus is pouring into the economy this week, and it will help keep the economy ticking over  more or less, depending on how much is saved, how much is spent, and then, how much is spent in Australia.  But a sustained recovery in activity will, as usual, be created by the private sector.  Westpac's Tier One capital boost, for example, creates headroom for the injection of an additional $30 billion-plus of loan funds into the economy. A similar boost is coming from last month's $3.25 billion NAB equity placement.  Westpac said in October that it was targeting a Tier One capital ratio of between 6.75 per cent and 7.75 per cent of risk- weighted assets, and after this placement its Tier One ratio is 8.32 per cent as of September 30.  That gives it a buffer against the economic downturn and the loan defaults the downturn is producing. But it also provides extra capital for expansion, as the big four banks step into markets that non-banks have deserted, and move on smaller banking competitors, including overseas banks that are now focusing more on their own home markets.  At 8.32 per cent, Westpac joins ANZ and NAB in the 8 per cent-plus Tier One capital club and, with its shares in a trading halt yesterday as underwriters JP Morgan, UBS and Morgan Stanley ran the 156 million share book-build, the other banks felt the heat.  CBA raised $2 billion in early October, but that was to fund its bargain-basement acquisition of BankWest from one of Britain's crisis casualties, HBOS, and CBA is now the odd bank out among the Big Four, with a Tier One ratio of 7.6 per cent.  A year ago CBA's Tier One capital base would have been considered excessive: the minimum requirement is just 4 per cent. Now, however, CBA probably needs to raise more capital to be seen to have the same crisis buffer and expansion options as its main competitors, and its shares were beaten down by $2.80, or 8.5 per cent, yesterday on speculation that it will do so.  The fact that Westpac also acknowledged that it was raising funds to cover the fall-out from the economic slowdown, including higher loan impairment provisions, also affected sentiment towards NAB, whose shares fell by $1.06, or 5.06 per cent, and ANZ, which was clipped by 83c, or 5.6 per cent.  Neither bank actually needs more capital now, however. NAB's $20-a-share, $3 billion placement last month and a $250 million retail kicker will carry its Tier One ratio to 8.3 per cent, and ANZ is running a Tier One ratio of 8.1 per cent after raising $3.1 billion through three successive underwritten dividend reinvestment issues and an issue of hybrid preference shares.  There is undoubtedly a defensive element in the equity raisings by the Australian banks, including Westpac's.  They were not exposed to much of the securitised debt that sat at the heart of the financial market meltdown, but are exposed to the downturn that is flowing from the markets crisis. Westpac said yesterday that while its performance in October and November had been in line with its September half, it was being hit by higher impairment provisions on corporate exposures, which include Allco Finance, ABC Learning Centres and Babcock &amp;amp; Brown. Continued  
