WHEN nothing is new, and there's nothing doin', step back in time.  Step Back in Time  - Kylie Minogue  AND back in time stepped that old showman himself Donald McGauchie last week when, bereft of anything that resembled original or constructive thought, Telstra exhumed its old broadband strategy from 2005.  McGauchie has stepped into the shoes of that other grand old pantomimer Phil Burgess as his company's lead vocalist. His role is the wicked witch, so his boss Sol Trujillo can continue his own starring role in Around the World in Eight Days, as the world's best-ever telecoms executive.  Burgess, by the way, is still a Telstra consultant.  Apart from introducing Australia to Sol Trujillo and his amigos, McGauchie's other main contributions to public life have been to sit on the board of James Hardie and the Reserve Bank - oh, and to help Peter Reith, who has been such a revelation on ABC TV's The Howard Years, in his attempt to bust the wharfies when he was running the National Farmers Federation.  A Telstra board seat was his just reward. The rest you know.  Indeed, McGauchie is a bit like our Kylie: a real trouper who does know how to put on a show.  According to financial market analysts he was at his best during a conference call on Wednesday after Telstra lodged its eight-page letter (12 including attachments), or proposal, on building our national broadband network, despite only five days earlier promising its shareholders it probably couldn't find a way of bidding.  The Telstra letter is a very firm slap in the face to Kevin Rudd and his Communications Minister Stephen Conroy.  It's pretty much a cut-and-paste job of the company's original back-of-the-envelope bid for billions of dollars in government funding in August 2005, steeped in the telco's usual arrogant language.  Back in August 2005, Telstra wanted only $2.6 billion to extend broadband beyond the main capital cities. By November 15, the plan had been doubled in speed from 6Mbps to 12Mbps in the five biggest cities and christened with a delightful new name: the Digital Compact.  It sounded a bit like a virtual make-up box - maybe you can get them on Facebook. Both plans had a laundry list of conditions based on ripping up telecommunications regulations. That hasn't changed. What a surprise.  Now the company thinks an eight-page letter is enough. This to Kevin Rudd, a man who has built his whole career on thorough and detailed bureaucratic analysis.  Conroy has been smiling this week through clenched teeth.He was clearly trying to shake out an improvement in Telstra's position from those halcyon days but the company has given him not one sausage.  Stephen Conroy has a letter from Burgess confirming all the 2005 costings. Yet Telstra now says a Government handout of $4.7 billion - close to double the original $2.6 billion - would only take a network to 80-90 per cent of the population. Telstra finance man John Stanhope could not quantify or justify the yawning difference.  There was plenty of heartfelt stuff about the falling Australian dollar, increased cost of credit and lower demand from end users but no costings from Telstra about the extra 20 per cent or so of the country - and no explanation of how the figure for non-economic areas could blow out by 300-400 per cent in three years.  Optus had the Opel $1 billion handout snatched away from it this year because the Government claimed it could not meet the coverage goals. Surely Telstra now deserves the same treatment.  Yet the company some call Solstra appears to believe no one else can build the network.  It's classic groupthink. If they say it enough, everyone will believe them. In a normal scenario, this network could, and should, have been Telstra's to lose, but McGauchie appears to be going out of his way to make it as difficult as possible.  Telstra is also trying to convince everyone that telecommunications networks are some sort of black art, and hasn't McGauchie been putting on the song and dance about that.  But network builds are not some magic that only Telstra understands. Companies all around the globe are building, or preparing to build, them. Telstra has outsourced most of its technical knowhow to global equipment makers. In the case of fibre-to-the-node technology Telstra has earmarked Paris-based Alcatel Lucent, but there are some others that can also do it: Nokia Siemens Networks, Fujitsu, Huawei, Juniper, Ericsson and Cisco Systems can all provide technology.  Construction groups such as Leighton Holdings can do the grunt work.  With its non-conforming letter, which breaches all sorts of aims of the tender documents, Telstra has undertaken the risky ploy of giving the Government a reason to either ignore it or make tougher regulations. As well, there are two solid national bids from Optus and Acacia.  Conroy now has the option of forming a dream team. It might run something like this. Canadian group Axia - which has lodged a bid it has yet to detail publicly - has a reputation as a good project manager. It has done this sort of thing in Canada and is part of Openet in Singapore. Openet is only 30 per cent owned by Singtel, with Axia and others.  Then there is Acacia, headed by the very credible Doug Campbell - it has investors and other interested infrastructure funds, plus formidable vendor partners.  It could run the thing at arm's length. For hands-on local experience Optus and maybe one or two other telcos could provide more equity as well as committing traffic - as could the federal and state governments. And that would mean an exit stage right for Kylie Telstra and her band of spin.  
