    The new CBA bestseller list is now online. Titled the November list (because it will be printed in the November issue of CBA's magazine), it reflects sales in the month of September. On October 1 I ran a post on the then-current lists of CBA and ECPA, but they didn't compare well because the data only overlapped one week. CBA's new November list and ECPA's October list compare better. ECPA's October list uses data from the last week of August and first three weeks of September, so the lists have three overlapping weeks. I've highlighted books appearing on one list and not the other in blue. First--once again, here's ECPA's October list.ECPA1 The Shack, William P. Young, Windblown Media2 The Longing, Beverly Lews, Bethany House/Baker3 Jessie, Lori Wick, Harvest House Publishers4 Sinner, Ted Dekker, Thomas Nelson Publishers5 Dead Heat, Joel C. Rosenberg, Tyndale House Publishers6 A Promise to Believe In, Tracie Peterson, Bethany House/Baker 7 Where the Heart Leads, Kim Vogel Sawyer, Bethany House/Baker 8 Redeeming Love, Francine Rivers, Waterbrook/Multnomah9 Sunset, Karen Kingsbury, Tyndale House Publishers10 Unexpected Love, Judith Miller, Bethany House/Baker 11 Fireproof, Eric Wilson, Thomas Nelson Publishers12 The Note, Angela Hunt, Thomas Nelson Publishers13 A Sister's Hope, Wanda E. Brunstetter, Barbour Publishing14 The Yada Yada Prayer Group, Neta Jackson, Thomas Nelson15 The Perfect Life, Robin Lee Hatcher, Thomas Nelson Publishers16 The Forbidden, Beverly Lewis, Bethany House Publishers/Baker17 The Last Jihad, Joel C. Rosenbert, Tyndale House Publishers18 Someday, Karen Kingsbury, Tyndale House Publishers19 When the Soul Mends, Cindy Woodsmall, Waterbrook/Multnomah20 Riven, Jerry B. Jenkins, Tyndale House PublishersHere's CBA's new November list:1 The Shack, William P. Young, Windblown Media2 Sunset, Karen Kingsbury, Tyndale House Publishers3 The Longing, Beverly Lews, Bethany House/Baker4 Jessie, Lori Wick, Harvest House Publishers5 Sinner, Ted Dekker, Thomas Nelson Publishers6 White Christmas Pie, Wanda Brunstetter, Barbour7 Fireproof, Eric Wilson, Thomas Nelson Publishers8 When the Soul Mends, Cindy Woodsmall, Waterbrook/Multnomah9 Unexpected Love, Judith Miller, Bethany House/Baker10 A Promise to Believe In, Tracie Peterson, Bethany House/Baker11 Dead Heat, Joel C. Rosenberg, Tyndale House Publishers12 A Sister's Hope, Wanda E. Brunstetter, Barbour Publishing13 Plain Perfect, Beth Wiseman, Thomas Nelson14 Redeeming Love, Francine Rivers, Waterbrook/Multnomah15 Where the Heart Leads, Kim Vogel Sawyer, Bethany House/Baker16 Convenient Groom, Denise Hunter, Thomas Nelson17 Whirlwood, Cathy Hake, Bethany House/Baker18 Rebecca's Reward, Lauraine Snelling, Bethany House/Baker19 The Forbidden, Beverly Lewis, Bethany House Publishers/Baker20 Dawn's Light, Terri Blackstock, ZondervanCongrats to the following Christian novelists on the current New York Times bestseller list, reflecting sales for the week ending October 11. The NYT list uses sales data from secular stores, including independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. It does not include sales of these books in Christian bookstores.16 Sunset, Karen Kingsbury. (Tyndale)19 The Longing, Beverly Lewis. (Bethany House)26 Fireproof, Eric Wilson, Alex Kendrick and Stephen Kendrick (Nelson)28 When the Soul Mends, Cindy Woodsmall (WaterBrook)     
