ISRAEL-BASED striker Emmanuel Mayuka and midfielder Justine Zulu yesterday joined the under-20 national team preparing for this Saturday's 2009 Rwanda Africa Youth Championship second round, return leg qualifier against Egypt slated for Nchanga Stadium in Chingola.Team manager, Gift Chaipa, who welcomed Mayuka and Zulu at Ndola International Airport, said the arrival of the duo was a morale booster.Mayuka of Maccabi Tel Aviv and Zulu who turns out for Hapoel Beersheva missed Zambia's first leg match which ended 3-3 in Alexandria, Egypt 10 days ago. "Mayuka and Justine have arrived. They touched down at Lusaka International Airport at 12:50 hours aboard a South Africa Airways flight before connecting to the Copperbelt." Chaipa said. Chaipa said Tunisia-based striker Fwayo Tembo who scored a brace in the first meeting in Egypt is expected to boost the team today.Chaipa said the arrival of the duo was a morale booster to the team as they prepare to face the Young Pharaohs in a deciding fixture on Saturday.And speaking after the team's training session at Kitwe's Arthur Davies Stadium, coach Herve Renard said he would field experienced players because the technical bench could not afford to experiment in such a crucial game.Renard said Egypt was a strong team and that it was imperative to field a strong squad.He said Zambia had potential to overshadow the Egyptians from qualifying for the continental championship if the boys continue with their commitment. "We've 100 percent chances of qualifying for the Africa Youth Championship. The game will be tough but I am happy to say that we have the material to stop Egypt from qualifying. "Our aim is to beat them because qualifying for the championship will be good for the boys. For us, 1-0 will be enough though I am also aware that a draw will also be good," Renard said. On striker Roger Kola, the coach said the Zanaco player had a swollen eye and was excused from training yesterday to give him time to recover.He however, said Kola would be fine before the match as the problem was not serious.Meanwhile, coach Osward Mutapa, said he was happy with the way the boys were responding to training.Mutapa said Forest Rangers striker Alex Mwiche, who sustained an injury during his team's Barclays Cup pre-quarter final match against Zesco United last Saturday, had recovered.Mwiche was part of the team during training at Arthur Davies Stadium. To reach this far, Zambia walloped Mauritius 3-0 on aggregate while Egypt trounced Zimbabwe 6-0 on aggregate. 
