Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. (NYSE: BRO) today announced a realignment of its Legal Department effective January 1, 2009. Laurel L. Grammig, based in Tampa, Florida, will continue to serve as Vice President and Corporate Secretary and will additionally serve as Chief Corporate Counsel, focusing exclusively on corporate governance, securities, regulatory and compliance matters. Ms. Grammig will report to Powell Brown, President of the Company. Robert W. Lloyd, based in Daytona Beach, Florida, will continue to serve as Vice President and will additionally serve as General Counsel, with responsibility as chief legal officer of the Company for oversight of the Company's Legal Department and responsibility for litigation and general contractual legal work on behalf of the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Lloyd will also report to Powell Brown.   Mr. Lloyd has worked with the Company since 1999. Prior to that time, he was in private practice with the law firm of Cobb &amp;amp; Cole, P.A. in Daytona Beach. Ms. Grammig has worked with the Company since 1994. Prior to that time, she was a partner of the law firm of Holland &amp;amp; Knight LLP in Tampa.   With respect to these changes, Mr. Powell Brown commented, 'Our company is fortunate to have an outstanding group of attorneys working diligently to help us to stay at the top of our game. Bob and Laurel are professionals of the highest caliber, and this change will enable both of them to focus on areas of great importance to Brown &amp;amp; Brown as we continue to expand our operations.' Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products and services, as well as risk management, third-party administration, managed health care, and Medicare set-aside services and programs. Providing service to business, public entity, individual, trade and professional association clients nationwide, the Company is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the seventh largest independent insurance intermediary in the United States. The Company's web address is www.bbinsurance.com.   This press release may contain certain statements relating to future results which are forward-looking statements. These statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the current belief of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively the 'Company') regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the Company's control. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, are contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements included in this press release are made only as of the date of this press release, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company thereafter becomes aware. 
