SCHAUMBURG, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--  Zurich, a leading property and casualty insurance provider in North America and globally, today announced Christopher Haarmann has been appointed chief underwriting officer of its Specialties business unit. In this role, Haarmann will lead underwriting operations for Specialties products across the United States.  Haarmann brings more than 25 years of insurance industry experience to his new role. He joined Zurich in 1998 and has worked in a variety of senior roles, including starting Zurich's Structured Solutions group and managing a key profit center for Zurich Programs. Most recently he served as senior vice president for Global Liability lines, where he was a member of the start-up management team that created Zurich's Global Underwriting Technical Center. 'Chris brings us a wealth of experience as a team leader, in addition to his technical underwriting expertise,' said Seraina Maag, president of Zurich's Specialties unit. 'In his prior role with Zurich, he developed global underwriting guidelines for liability, umbrella, automobile and workers' compensation lines. He has deep knowledge of specialty insurance markets across North America and globally, and also brings an exceptional track record in product development. Chris is committed to developing relevant, responsive solutions for our customers' changing needs.' Haarmann said, 'Zurich's commitment to underwriting excellence is a crucial contributor to the company's ability to serve its markets worldwide. By understanding our customers' risks and their businesses, we are able to assist them in developing the responses they need to conduct business in today's volatile environment.' Prior to joining Zurich, Haarmann held senior positions with a variety of companies, including Swiss Reinsurance, TIG Insurance, Continental Insurance and AIG, among others. He is a graduate of Fairfield University, Fairfield, Conn., and earned an M.B.A. at Mount St. Mary's College, Emmitsburg, Md. Haarmann's industry designations include Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU), Associate in Risk Management (ARM) and Associate in Surplus Lines Insurance (ASLI).  About Zurich  Zurich's North America Commercial and Global Corporate in North America business divisions are part of Zurich Financial Services Group (Zurich), an insurance-based financial services provider with a global network of subsidiaries and offices in North America and Europe as well as in Asia Pacific, Latin America and other markets. Founded in 1872, the Group is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland. It employs approximately 60,000 people serving customers in more than 170 countries. In North America, Zurich (www.zurichna.com) is a leading commercial property-casualty insurance provider serving the global corporate, large corporate, middle market, specialties and programs sectors.
