NEW HAVEN, Conn. - A U.S. federal judge has ruled that shareholders of American International Group Inc. lost more than $500-million (U.S.) as a result of a scheme to manipulate the financial statements of the world's largest insurance company.  The ruling Friday by Judge Christopher Droney means five former insurance executives convicted of the scheme could face up to life in prison under advisory sentencing guidelines.  Four former executives of General Re Corp. and a former executive of AIG were convicted in February of conspiracy, securities fraud, mail fraud and making false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors filed court papers citing a study by its expert that concluded the fraud-related losses to AIG shareholders totaled $1.2-billion to $1.4-billion.  They cited another methodology by the expert that put the losses at $544-million to $597-million, but said either method is reasonable.  Judge Droney rejected the higher estimate, but said the lower range was reasonable. That finding and a determination that the fraud affected more than 250 victims will increase the advisory guideline sentence range.  The guideline range and a sentencing date have not been set yet.  Defendants Christopher Garand, Ronald Ferguson, Elizabeth Monrad, Robert Graham and Christian Milton challenged the estimate and argued there was no loss to investors.  Mr. Ferguson has said in court papers that he anticipated the government would advocate a loss amount that leads to a recommendation of life in prison. But prosecutors made no such recommendation, simply concluding that the defendants should receive a substantial prison sentence. A report by the probation department recommended sentences of between 14 years and more than 17 years for each defendant.  Prosecutors said the defendants participated in a scheme in which AIG paid Gen Re as part of a secret side agreement to take out reinsurance policies with AIG in 2000 and 2001, propping up its stock price and inflating reserves by $500-million.  Reinsurance policies are backups purchased by insurance companies to completely or partly insure the risk they have assumed for their customers.  General Re is part of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which is led by billionaire investor Warren Buffett of Omaha, Neb.  More recently, AIG came under fire for picking up a $440,000 tab for a weeklong retreat at the posh St. Regis Resort in California for top-performing insurance agents, just days after the U.S. government stepped in to save the company with the $85-billion taxpayer-funded loan. AIG also spent $86,000 for a hunting trip in England as the faltering company reaped another $37.8-billion in taxpayer funded loans.  Lawmakers investigating AIG's meltdown said they were enraged that executives of AIG's main U.S. life insurance subsidiary spent $440,000 on the retreat, complete with spa treatments, banquets and golf outings.  Company officials said the activities had been planned months before the bailout. The company pledged to do everything possible to end such extravagances and has agreed to freeze millions of dollars in compensation and bonuses for former executives.  
