TWN, AFP NEW YORK -- Major U.S. firms will keep spending hundreds of millions of dollars on sports endorsement deals even as they accept billions of dollars in rescue money from U.S. taxpayers, according to an ABC News report. The advertising and promotional deals include insurance power AIG, which will receive US$150 billion in the federal bailout while spending US$125 million for its logo to appear on Manchester United football uniforms.  They should put U.S. Treasury on the front of their uniforms, said Steve Ellis, a member of U.S. watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense.  An AIG spokesman told the U.S. television network that its deal with Englands Manchester United remains firm but AIG is reviewing all sponsorships to identify any relationship that might be essential.  Citibank, which just accepted a multi-billion-dollar emergency funding deal from the U.S. government and axed 53,000 workers, has a 20-year naming rights deal worth US$400 million for the new stadium of baseballs New York Mets.  This type of spending is indefensible and unacceptable to Citigroups new partner and largest investor: the American taxpayer, U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings said on Monday.  I strongly urge Citigroup to find a way out of this contract and instead spend that US$400 million on retaining its employees and restoring confidence in its operations.  While no bailout funds might go to sponsorship deals, the appearance of spending big money on such a luxury item while teetering on financial collapse and laying off workers rubs many the wrong way.  Bank of America, receiving US$25 billion in federal bailout funding, is in a 20-year deal worth US$140 million for naming rights to the home field of American footballs Carolina Panthers.  The group is also reportedly set to spend US$20 million a year for a sponsorship deal with baseballs New York Yankees.  Any investments we make in sponsorship marketing are directly linked to driving revenue growth for the bank, Bank of America spokesman Joseph Goode told ABC.  PNC Bank, set for US$7.7 billion in U.S. taxpayer relief, has a 20-year deal worth US$30 million for naming rights for the home ballpark of baseballs Pittsburgh Pirates.  J.P. Morgan Chase, set for US$25 billion from taxpayers, has a 30-year deal worth US$66 million for naming rights for the home stadium of baseballs Arizona Diamondbacks that was signed 11 years ago.  Comerica, pledged for US$2.3 billion in bailout funds, has a naming rights deal with baseballs Detroit Tigers through 2028.
