ttention Business/Financial Editors  Advantage Series and Annuity Plus from Foresters offer guaranteed options  MISSISSAUGA, ON, Nov. 3 /CNW/ - Unity Life of Canada, a Foresters company, added Advantage Series Whole Life and Annuity Plus deferred annuity, both from Foresters(TM), to its product line today. Both products provide financial security and complement Unity Life's existing competitive term and permanent products. Unity Life insurance products are available to Canadians nationwide through its extensive brokerage distribution network. 'Consumers are looking to protect their financial security in these unstable times,' said Rob Baboth, Unity Life's Vice President, Sales and Marketing. 'That's why Unity Life has introduced Advantage Series Whole Life and Annuity Plus deferred annuity. We are certain these products offer the flexibility and many guaranteed features that Canadians are looking for when planning for their future.' Advantage Series offers four different coverage choices, each with a different premium level, cash values and coverage blend. Annuity Plus offers options of registered and non-registered savings plans, choice of guaranteed interest rates and frequency of contribution. Both products are underwritten by Foresters, an organization with a history of financial strength. In addition, certificateholders covered under these products may be eligible to access complimentary member benefits from Foresters. These include life, health and education benefits beyond life insurance as well as opportunities to develop personal skills, attend family events and volunteer in the community.  About Unity Life  Unity Life of Canada is a Canadian incorporated life insurance company, which provides financial security to Canadians through innovative life insurance products and services. The company originated in 1898 as the Insurance Department of the Subsidiary High Court of the Ancient Order of Foresters. Incorporated as a mutual company in 1934, it changed its name to Toronto Mutual Life Insurance Company. In 2002, it amalgamated with its subsidiary, The Western Life Assurance Company, and became Unity Life of Canada. On April 2, 2008, Unity Life was converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company owned by Foresters. Based in Mississauga Ontario, Unity Life currently has more than 192,000 active policies and certificates, $13.8 billion of insurance in force, and $562 million in assets (all figures in Canadian dollars as at December 31, 2007). Unity Life has been assigned an 'A-' (Excellent) rating by A.M. Best Company*. Unity Life's Web address is www.unitylife.ca.  About Foresters  Founded in 1874 as a fraternal benefit society, Foresters(TM) helps individuals and families achieve financial security with its innovative portfolio of life insurance products and annuities. Foresters has assets of more than $5.4 billion with liabilities of $4.0 billion resulting in a surplus of $1.4 billion (all figures in Canadian dollars as of December 31, 2007) and maintains an 'A' (Excellent) rating by A.M. Best*. Foresters shares its financial strength with its members, who are customers, through complimentary life, health and education benefits that help its more than 735,000 eligible members and their families in Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. Foresters provides opportunities that inspire its members to make a difference in their communities. Foresters Equity Services, Inc.(xx) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Foresters that offers investment products in the United States. For more information, please visit www.foresters.com.  Foresters(TM) is a trademark of The Independent Order of Foresters, a fraternal benefit society, 789   Don Mills      
