 The Scottish Football Association pulled out of the proposed match in July when the costs involved appeared prohibitive.The SFA were faced with a cost of around 1m to bring Argentina to Scotland, which would have meant ticket prices having to rise.However, the SFA have now confirmed the match will go ahead, and ticket prices will be kept at normal levels.George Burley, the Scotland head coach, said: 'We cannot wait to test ourselves against one of the best teams in the world and look forward to our fans giving Argentina a great Scottish welcome.'Gordon Smith, the SFA chief executive said: 'I am delighted that we've managed to strike a deal to bring Argentina to Scotland. When we were speaking to the representatives, it was clear they wanted to play us and were just as excited as we were about a match at Hampden. We are very pleased that we will be able to put on the game at a pricing structure that will appeal to the fans.'We want Scotland fans to see the players pit themselves against the best in the world and there are few teams better than Argentina. This is going to be a great match and a fantastic occasion and I know that George and the team will put on a show that will do the country proud.'Meanwhile, Age Hareide , the Norway manager, yesterday named his squad for the World Cup qualifying double-header against Scotland and Holland and admitted Hampden is one of his favourite stadiums.Hareide cannot wait for his side's trip to Glasgow, where Norway won in a qualifier for the 2006 World Cup. 'I love arenas like Hampden, I did as a player and do as a coach,' he said. 'The Scottish fans never give up and also applaud the opponents if they plays well. For a player who copes with the atmosphere, this is the perfect place to play.'He added: 'This is a very important game for us. We lost two points against Iceland, and have to win points now.We won there four years ago and aim to repeat that.'Hareide believes that his strikers will score in Glasgow but worries his defenders will not keep a clean sheet. He said: 'We have a lot of strength and speed in the squad. That will be important. We will almost certainly score goals, but the problem is we let in too many. If we can prevent that it will create confidence in our team.'Erik Huseklepp, the Brann midfielder, has been handed a first call-up after a series of eye-catching displays in the Norwegian league and in Europe while Kjetil Waehler, the Valerenga defender, also gets the nod as a replacement for the injured Tore Reginiussen.The 23-player party includes Barclays Premier League players John Carew, Morten Gamst Pedersen and captain Brede Hangeland, but there is no place for Vidar Riseth, Lillestrom's former Celtic defender.Stabaek goalkeeper Jon Knudsen is expected to make his debut in the October 11 Group 9 clash with Scotland, with first choice Rune Almenning Jarstein (foot) struggling for form and fitness.Squad R A Jarstein, E Johnsen, J Knudsen; BHangeland, J A Riise, T Hoegli, A R Haaland, K Waehler, M Morisbak Skjonsberg; M Andresen, C Grindheim, M G Pedersen, B H Riise, P S Skjelbred, J G Solli, F Stromstad, F Winsnes; J Carew, T Helstad, MAbdellaoue, E Huseklepp, S Iversen, D Braathen
