Nick Faldo may have made a meal of it but his 'sandwich list' became his real list on Thursday - and it will be Padraig Harrington and Robert Karlsson who kick off Europe's bid for an unprecedented fourth successive Ryder Cup victory at Valhalla.Not, though, against Kentucky pair Kenny Perry and JB Holmes, but against Phil Mickelson and cup newcomer Anthony Kim. Perry and Holmes are not a partnership at all - not for the opening foursomes at Valhalla at least.Many thought Faldo would start with Sergio Garcia and Lee Westwood, but he said: 'It's pretty tough to push a three-time major champion out of his seat.'Perry takes over from the injured Tiger Woods as Jim Furyk's partner. They will play the 'fearsome twosome' of Garcia and Westwood in the bottom match, American captain Paul Azinger confident Furyk will be a part of the action after visiting his wife Tabitha in hospital after she experienced neck pains.Henrik Stenson and Paul Casey are in the second game against Justin Leonard and Hunter Mahan, while Justin Rose does not have to wait for his debut. He partners controversial wildcard selection Ian Poulter, his close friend, against Stewart Cink and Chad Campbell.Resting during the morning for Europe are Miguel Angel Jimenez and rookies Graeme McDowell, Oliver Wilson and Soren Hansen. For the United States it is Ben Curtis, Holmes, Steve Stricker and Boo Weekley.Harrington is out to make up for his performance last time out as he claimed only one half-point from five games at the K Club. He and Karlsson have still to decide who hits the first shot.He said: 'We have got to do a little bit of thinking on that. Think about it and see what we are comfortable with. The course seems to set up where it is not obvious to go one way or the other.He added: 'Robert has been playing great all year and he is certainly somebody I looked to play with and he looked to play with me. While you can't make too much of a deal out of the first session, momentum is always nice to have on your side.'Rose commented: 'Ian and I have a great camaraderie and will find a way to get it done. Our World Cup experience will be a factor and we always felt that we were stronger in foursomes than fourball. We can get the juices flowing and psyche ourselves up. I've been waiting a long time for this.'Editor's choiceA doting dad who was killed in a tragic accident has been described as a big man with a big heart.An ardent Bradford City fan has returned from the other side of the world to see his girls lead out the Bantams at Valley Parade.A Bradford girl who defied doctors by learning to walk after surviving two strokes as a baby has been honoured by The Stroke Association for her tremendous courage.Green-fingered groups feel blooming great after winning prizes in the prestigious Yorkshire in Bloom awards.Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne has been arrested on suspicion of causing criminal damage.The third body found at a burnt-out rural mansion has been identified as that of 15-year-old Kirstie Foster, police said.Lloyds TSB has unveiled a mammoth 12 billion takeover of ailing Halifax Bank of Scotland, in a deal set to change the face of UK banking and cause hefty job losses.Jimmy Quinn was touted as a possible City boss when they were hanging on for Stuart McCall.Four-and-a-half years after joining, Iestyn Harris leaves Bradford maintaining he has no regrets about ever making that first controversial move.
