Direct From Beijing, 2008 Olympic Gymnastic Superstars and Grammy Award Winning Icons Descend Upon San Diego to Tape ABC Network Women's Cancer Awareness Special, Frosted Pink With a Twist ***JUST ADDED: NATASHA BEDINGFIELD SCHEDULED TO APPEAR. WILL BE PERFORMING AND WALKING THE 'PINK' CARPET SAN DIEGO, Sept. 12 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The following was released by Frosted Pink with a Twist: What: The taping of Frosted Pink with a Twist, a star-studded television network special that focuses on educating viewers about cancers that primarily affect women. Who: Co-hosted this year by Olympic Gymnastics Champion Mary Lou Rettonand cancer survivor and Olympic Figure Skating Champion Scott Hamilton, the show will highlight current Olympic champions Shawn Johnson, Nastia Liukin, Paul Hamm, Shannon Miller, and other stars of the men's and women's US Olympic Gymnastics teams. Paired with these gymnasts will be icons of song, including Grammy-award winner Carole King, Cyndi Lauper and billboard sensations Natasha Bedingfield and Jesse McCartney, making for a historical event of sports, entertainment, and health awareness. Also appearing will be hip-hop singer and Dancing with the Stars contestant Mario and Kenny Loggins. Cancer survivor Sharon Osbournewill be accepting the Nationwide(R) Insurance Woman of Courage award. When: Sunday, September 14, 2008, 4:30PM PST for 'Pink' Carpet. Media on the Pink Carpet will be able to observe the taping of the show. Where: San Diego Sports Arena, 3500 Sports Arena Blvd, San Diego, CA Why: Raising awareness is especially significant because research continues to find that despite significant improvements in the diagnostic tools and treatment options for women's cancers, many women lack the basic information they need to get quality care. Recent national studies show that only two-thirds of all women aged 40 and over (66.4 percent) receive regular mammograms and 42 percent of those polled in a 2007 survey said they did not have a conversation with their doctor about their cancer risks. Specifically, southern California leads the state with the highest annual death rate for women with breast cancer and outpaced the nation breast cancer incidence rate for females in 2004. SOURCE Frosted Pink with a Twist Amber McCracken, +1-202-974-5009, mccrackena@ruderfinn.com, for Frosted Pink with a Twist
