Aston Villa manager Martin ONeill was praying that the heavy rain in Bulgaria ahead of Thursday's Uefa Cup first round encounter, blows over as it puts doubt over whether the game will actually be played.The 7,000-seater Gradski Stadium, home of Villas Bulgarian opponents, Litex Lovech - was so waterlogged after heavy thunderstorms that the visitors could not train on it.The Villa players did eventually manage to train on a neighbouring pitch and with the weather here forecast to improve, ONeill was hopeful the game would go ahead - knowing anything else would spell disaster with the team already committed to playing four games in the space of nine days.ONeill said: We are playing a really tough game and at the moment the pitch is under water, but thankfully no more rain is predicted. The weather is improving.The pitch is actually in really good shape even though it is currently under water but I am confident it wil be okay. We could have insisted that we train on the pitch but we decided to go on another one. The players have been in to have a look at it and I dont see it being  a major problem.I think the weather forecast is a bit brighter and I think it should be fine. The groundsmen have said they will be able to fork the pitch to get the excess water off. The last thing we would want to do is come out here and then not play.The Villa boss said his side were looking forward to the challenge of European football although he has had to accept that Ashley Young will play no part in proceedings after picking up a knock on his knee.Striker John Carew did not travel with the team after picking up a sprained ankle in Monday nights impressive 2-1 Barclays Premier League victory over Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane.Instead, ONeill looks set to partner newcomer James Milner - his 12 million acquisition from Newcastle United - with either Gabriel Agbonlahor or Marlon Harewood up front.The Villa boss has also hinted that Spaniard Carlos Cuellar, who joined Villa last month from Scottish Premier League side Rangers, could be considered as a posible replacement for club captain Martin Laursen in defence.Laursen is in fine form but has played more games than the majority of his team-mates of late, having featured against Tottenham and played in two of Denmarks internationals last week.ONeill said: Carlos is a defender who has a bit of ability. I saw a lot of his games in European football for Rangers. When he started to come to prominence, we had people take in a lot of their matches.From last Christmas onwards we really started taking an interest in him. Rangers going out of the Champions League made up their minds and the lost revenue probably forced the sale. With money being so tight, it influenced them.Theres always a concern in my mind that Martin Laursen can play all the games, given his past injury problems. Not that Carlos has come in here to think anything other than he will be playing.'Carloss ambition is to play for Spain. He voiced that when he joined us. He thinks hes capable of doing it. Only time will tell whether he will but I think he has the ability to do that. Carlos Puyol has become a permanent fixture for Barcelona and Spain for years. I think Carlos feels, at the age of 27, he has the time to do so.Looking towards the UEFA Cup tie, ONeill insisted his side would not be treating their opponents lightly.Litex Lovech are currently second in the Bulgarian top flight and are unbeaten in five games.We know it will be a tough game, he said. We will have to be on our guard. We will be treating this game very carefully indeed. We started this competition in July [in the InterToto Cup] and wanted to qualify for it. It is not something we have taken lightly since the draw was made.We can play in the Uefa Cup and still be competitive in the Premier League. It is not a problem to play in the two competitions.Lovech manager Stanimir Stoilov said: Im very afraid of Aston Villa. I saw their victory over Spurs and I have to say they were the perfect team. There is no doubt they are a very strong team.
