 SAMANTHA LANEKATE LONERGAN intended to surprise her brother Tom by travelling to Melbourne from London for today's grand final.But AFL sides make it their business to be across such intelligence and, upon learning of the plan, Geelong's football manager Neil Balme phoned to say that if the family didn't tell their player that his sister had come to town then the footy club would. The rationale being that this week was going to be emotional enough for the 24-year-old Cat nearly killed by footy two seasons ago but who is now on the verge of being a premiership player, and didn't need to become even more so.For the Lonergan clan that will make the journey from Yarrawonga, Cairns and England to the MCG, today is all about new football memories. But after an on-field accident that very nearly ended a life, let alone a football career that was then in its infancy, it is impossible for Lonergan's parents, Tricia and Bernie, not to remember the 5.30am phone call they received on Sunday, August 27, 2006.After watching Tom play his sixth senior match the previous weekend, the couple had decided to stay at home to watch his older brother, Marc, go around in Yarrawonga.By Saturday evening they knew their youngest boy had been injured in a heavy clash during a draw between the Cats and Melbourne, and that his girlfriend, Elise, was with him in the Geelong hospital. By sunrise the next day things were dire.'We got a phone call  to say that Tom had started haemorrhaging and that they were calling in an emergency theatre team,' said Tricia, a nurse. 'We got up, we had no petrol in the car, we packed clothes and we told Marc that we were heading down to Geelong.'Three surgeons met the Lonergans when they arrived and informed them that their son had nearly died, explaining how they had packed his bleeding stomach with towels. They were told to brace themselves as their son, then 22 and in an induced coma, still might not survive.The Lonergans set up camp in Geelong for a month. The football club's offer of a five-star beachfront unit was politely refused, a little house where family members and friends could drop by felt more suitable. His older brothers, Terry and Marc, arrived and, gradually, the medical updates that were at one stage being delivered on the hour became increasingly intermittent.On the Wednesday, Lonergan was carefully brought back into consciousness.It was around that time that Kate, an employee of Barclays Bank whose father credits her as being a special force in her younger brother's recovery, arrived from London.When Tom was well enough to be taken outdoors in a wheelchair she bypassed the hospital rose garden and rolled him past the Lonergans's temporary headquarters.Lonergan lost 17 kilograms through the ordeal but Geelong kept him on their list and 10 months later he returned through the VFL. Early tentativeness on-field passed and Lonergan's part in Geelong's VFL premiership last year - where he was moved from defence to attack and booted six goals - was the stuff of fairy tales.Said Bernie: 'I came away feeling that there are some football gods around.'Geelong put Lonergan back on the senior list and in round 10 this year picked him for his first top-level game in 19 months. He booted two goals that day, has kicked 32 majors in 14 matches since, and not lost his spot.The near-death sporting experience, the family agrees, has changed Lonergan's relationship with football. But rather than lessen his desire to excel in the game that almost killed him, it has moved him to make each moment count. 'While he's still the same laid-back type character it's changed the way he's approached different goals,' Bernie said.
