Billionaire Mike Ashley has confirmed he wants to sell Newcastle just 16 months after staging a 134.4million takeover.Ashley and his executive director (football) Dennis Wise have borne the brunt of a furious backlash from supporters in the 10 days since manager Kevin Keegan walked out in protest over the club's transfer policy.In a lengthy statement, Ashley said: 'I am putting the club up for sale. I hope that the fans get what they want and that the next owner is someone who can lavish the amount of money on the club that the fans want.'He added: 'I am not stupid and have listened to the fans.'I have really loved taking my kids to the games, being next to them and all the fans.'But I am now a dad who can't take his kids to a football game on a Saturday because I am advised that we would be assaulted.'Therefore, I am no longer prepared to subsidise Newcastle United.'Thousands staged demonstrations outside St James' Park before and after Saturday's embarrassing 2-1 Barclays Premier League defeat by Hull demanding that Ashley sell up and that Wise be removed from his post.Editor's ChoiceNEW poems from some of Stroud's finest wordsmiths will accompany this year's Stroud Water Textile Festival.DJ JAGDISH Patel is one of Stroud FM's new radio presenters.WHY is it that three quintessentially English roles have gone to a couple of Americans and one Australian? Having just won two substantial Oscars this year it must be plain for any idiot to see that Britain has talent. So when this film's director Justin Chadwick says they were just perfect for the roles because 'they're great actors', it sticks in my craw. Though it is fair to say the Australian Cate Blanchett did a fine job as Queen Elizabeth I, I still think that it is insulting to Americans to assume they would be unable to cope with an unknown name in the lead, but it is an even greater insult to us. We have a treasure trove of talent in this country that is struggling to get noticed in a profession in which 88% are out of work. But we also have a myriad of big names as well, so shame on you Mr. Chadwick.SET in the early 1980s this film is based on the true story of hard drinking womaniser Charlie Wilson, who also had a penchant for coke. He was the liberal Democrat congressman from Texas said to have been totally responsible for organising the biggest undercover operation in the history of the United States. This involved supplying the Afghan Mujahideen with arms during the Soviet war in Afghanistan, the success of which unfortunately was the beginning of a very tricky future for the Afghan nation.
