     After another torrid day on the stockmarket, whose cause is unknown (and unknowable?), the bailout is coming into place: HBOS shares slumped by 42 per cent today, Royal Bank of Scotland was down 39 per cent and Lloyds TSB dived 13 per cent in another torrid day for the banks.  The taxpayer will take a stake in banks that seek assistance through the purchase of preference shares, which the Chancellor will say could mean ordinary people making a profit once the crisis is over. There have been a myriad of rumours over who leaked the news that government and banks had met last night to organise the structure of support for the banking sector. The news was placed on Robert Peston's blog and contributed to the loss of confidence in the banks.Ministers are putting the blame for the disclosures firmly on the banks who were accused of briefing the BBC about a meeting between Mr Darling and Barclays, the RBS and Lloyds TSB and other institutions on Monday night. At that gathering Mr Darling was urged to speed up his bailout plans. But the leaking of what went on was denounced as irresponsible by Downing Street. For their part the banks accused Mr Darling of dithering for not going ahead with his announcement earlier. A government that blames a bank for briefing is in denial, especially when Robert Peston is known for his close links to the Treasury. The whole operation bears the hallmarks of Brown's oppo: leaking for political advantage, ignorance of the wider consequences and smear anyone but the culprit. So tonight, after Darling's slated announcements and the final bailout of the banks, long trailed and with no guarantee of success, the government takes action. It is partial, chaotic and gives the appearance of helping out 'our friends in the City'. You could tell there was trouble as Macavity had left the building: especially when 4.5bn was lost by Savers in icesave.Tonight, there is a whiff of turd world incompetence and banana republic antics from this dying government. Iain Martin says it all:But the handling of this today has been beyond appalling, in policy and presentational&amp;#0160;terms. When it is all over, reputations will have been shredded, answers will be required and there will have to be a reckoning. Otherwise we will have become a banana republic. Sorry, what's that I'm hearing from Robert Peston? The government is going to announce in the morning that we are a banana republic.    
