us senate    us senate us senate members London stocks close higher ahead of US Senate vote  us senate senate.gov.  The FTSE 100 finished more than one percent higher on Wednesday, with shares surging in HBOS and Lloyds TSB, as the US Senate prepared to vote on a revised financial rescue package us senate senate bailout bill. Global stocks climb before US Senate bailout vote .  Global stock markets rallied Wednesday on investor optimism that the US Senate would later approve a revised financial rescue package that could prevent fresh economic chaos us senate us senators. US Senate to vote Wednesday on bailout package  us senate u s senate.  The US Senate will vote Wednesday evening on a revised 700 billion dollar Wall Street bailout, after the House of Representatives sparked economic turmoil by rejecting the original package us senate us senate members. Senate expected to pass US$700bn bailout  us senate us house of representatives. WASHINGTON - The US Senate appeared to be moving towards passing the US$700 billion bailout today as opposition to the package among House Republican conservatives appeared to be softening. Market to rally if bailout hurdles US Senate  us senate us house of representatives. MANILA, Philippines - A rally would likely ensue Thursday after Wall Street rebounded from its largest point decline in history on expectation a revamped bailout plan would hurdle the US Senate us senate senate bailout bill. US Senate poised for dramatic bailout vote  us senate senate bailout bill. WASHINGTON: The US Senate was poised to vote on Wednesday on a 700-billion-dollar Wall Street rescue, reworked after the House of Representatives rocked global markets by spurning a first plan to quell the financial crisis. US Senate to take up N-deal vote on Wednesday  us senate us senate members. WASHINGTON: With no hint of irony, the United States Senate will vote on legislation consecrating the US-India civilian nuclear agreement on Gandhi Jayanti day in India. US Senate begins debate on nuke deal ahead of vote . WASHINGTON: The US Senate on Wednesday opened a debate on the Indo-US nuclear deal before taking up for vote a legislation on the initiative, four days after the House of Representatives gave its nod to the landmark agreement. US politicians confident that rescue package will pass in Senate . Leading US politicians said they were confident that an amended 385 billion rescue package for the nation's troubled economy would be passed in the US Senate tonight us senate us senate members. US Senate begins debate on N-deal . COMMENT ON THIS ! Your Views! The India-US civil nuclear deal appeared poised to clear its last legislative hurdle as the Senate began a debate on it on Wednesday morning after overcoming objections from a few lawmakers.      us senate us senate members, senate bailout     
