               How dumb is Huggy Bear?  Well, yesterday he credited his BFF Drunky McStagger (who attacked him mercilessly in 2000, remember) with lowering the price of oil:"In case you missed it, soon as the President announced that we were going to end the moratorium on offshore drilling the price of a barrel of oil went down $10," the presumptive Republican nominee said at a Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania town hall.Crude oil prices are down about $20 a barrel from their record-setting intra-day high of $147.27 a barrel back on July 11.President Bush announced on July 14 he was lifting executive ban on offshore drilling, although Congress has yet to act on his call to lift its own drilling ban.Uh huh.  Let's see ... what do the economists think?  The natural effects of supply and demand, perhaps? "This market's still fundamentally quite strong  it's just that we've seen prices coming off from overinflated levels. The market's letting steam out," said Mark Pervan, a senior commodities strategist with ANZ Bank in Melbourne, Australia. "There's genuine reason to be taking profits in this market, with the weak U.S. demand numbers."U.S. demand for gasoline over the four weeks ended July 18 was 2.4 percent lower than a year earlier, averaging more than 9.3-million barrels a day. That resulted in an increase in gasoline stockpiles of 2.9-million barrels. Analysts had expected an increase of half a million.James Cordier, president of Liberty Trading Group in Tampa, said he's betting oil prices will continue to fall. After settling at a record $145.29 a barrel on July 3, crude prices could drop to $110 by year end, he said."The main catalyst has been China, which has taken huge steps to lower demand as well as clean air by taking 21-million cars off the road overnight," Cordier said, referring to a government mandate to curtail driving in advance of the Beijing Olympics. "That's been the tipping point."Need more evidence, Huggy?"The ever deteriorating demand picture in the U.S. only seems to be getting from bad to worse and this contagion may even be spreading to China, the dynamo of demand growth," wrote Nauman Barakat, an energy trader at Macquarie Futures, the trading arm of Macquarie investment bank, in a report Thursday morning.And then there's this:But with demand beginning to buckle, the dollar and financials improving, investors have begun to unwind their trades, pushing crude lower since the record on July 11."I think that to some extent there has been the beginnings of a shift in sentiment regarding demand," said Addison Armstrong, director of market research for Tradition Energy, "This sell-off has been about liquidation."Jeebus, you're a moron, Huggy.  I don't know what exactly qualifies one to be president, but one thing's for sure: you're just too fucking stupid for that job.Labels: George W. Bush, John McCain, oil            
