 Hieronymus Bosch Paradise and hell left and right panels of tryptich, 1510On the left, evil invading the world. The creation of Eve is followed by the temptation of Adam and both are driven out of Paradise; high above in the sky the fall of the rebellious angels, hurled from heaven as a swarm of repulsive insects. On the right a vision of hell: horror piled upon horror, fires, torments and fearful demons, half animal, half human or half machine, who plague and punish the poor sinful souls for all eternity. For the first and perhaps for the only time, an artist had succeeded in giving concrete and tangible shape to the fears that had haunted the minds of man in the Middle Ages. Ilargi: Its starting to put a smile on my face: The countries worst hit by the housing bubble and the credit crunch, the usual suspects we know by now: the US, Britain, Ireland, Spain and soon Canada, continue to fall over each other in denying there is such a thing as a recession in their economies.Meanwhile, relatively tiny Denmark comes out and admits it IS in a recession. Does that mean that Denmark is doing worse than all the rest of the rich world? Honestly, would anyone believe that? Sure, Denmark had quite a bubble, and its not immune to what happens in the world economy, or the Eurozone (to which it doesnt belong). What I think is happening is that the Danish simply have less use, and patience, for spin and lies and other illusions. I think the media in Copenhagen is less prone to play along with politicians who are interested much more in holding on to their own power and pensions, and have eye only for the poll numbers for the next elections. A similar view seems to exist in Germany, where -some of- the press is highly critical of rosy reports and numbers. While at the same time, the US government releases the next in an endless litany of reports based on bogus employment statistics.Yes, continental Europe, and the Eurozone, is running into trouble. But from what I can see, from a purely financial and economic point of view, the hurt will be worse, deeper and faster in the Anglo-Saxon zone. The difference in perception seems to come from one source only: deception.PS: Today, Qubec City, North America's oldest city, celebrates its 400th anniversary, which also marks 400 years of French culture on the continent. Tomorrow, the US marks its independence. Here's to both celebrations remembering, with full respect and dignity, the beautiful and highly developed native cultures that were destroyed to make way for the new ones.Pain in Spain as cracks show in Europe's economy Spain's private sector tumbled towards recession in June with Ireland and Britain not far behind in surveys that showed Europe's housing-driven economies slowing hard on the heels of the United States. The surveys of thousands of companies across Europe showed activity in the manufacturing and services sectors of the euro zone as a whole shrank in June for the first time in five years, though Germany and France were spared."The Spanish and the Irish surveys were both truly awful," said Howard Archer, analyst at Global Insight, an economics consultancy. The Purchasing Managers' Index surveys offered the European Central Bank a reminder of the risks to economic growth, as well highlighting the inflation risks that are expected to prompt it to raise euro zone interest rates later on Thursday by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent.Many analysts think the risks to growth from higher borrowing costs will deter the ECB from hiking further, and that the next move will be a cut, in 2009. With the exception of Italy, which has been battling economic stagnation for years, growth in Europe looks most at risk in economies that prospered during a decade-long housing boom fuelled, as in the United States, by cheap credit. That ended when defaults on U.S. mortgages started a global credit crunch last year.Earlier this week, Denmark, another country where a housing boom has turned to bust, became the first European country to confirm two straight quarters of shrinkage in gross domestic product, the general definition of recession. Thursday's news ramped up the evidence that Spain, the euro zone's fourth largest economy, is falling hard following a decade or so of bumper economic growth fuelled by rising house prices and frenzied construction.Spain's services economy shrank at the fastest pace ever recorded in a euro zone PMI survey, according to Markit who compile the monthly surveys of corporate purchasing managers. Economists consider the PMIs a good "as it happens" measure of what is happening to the economy on the business side. The PMI index for Spain's services sector hit a record low of 36.7, and its manufacturing sector reading is also below the 50 mark which is the dividing line between growth and contraction.June performance was not much stronger in Ireland and Italy, two other euro zone troublespots, nor in Britain, which along with Denmark is outside the ECB's monetary policy area but suffering the same worries about high prices and low growth. Ireland's services economy shrank in June for the fifth consecutive month, and at the fastest pace in at least eight years, the PMI survey there showed.One of the country's most respected forecasters, the Economic and Social Research Institute, believes the small island economy is heading for its first recession since 1983 this year, although the government is clinging to less gloomy forecasts. In Italy, the third-largest euro zone economy after Germany and France, the PMI showed service sector activity contracted for the seventh month running in June, though the rate of contraction was a bit less than the previous month. In Britain, the services sector shrank at its fastest pace since the aftermath of the 2001 attacks on the United States and researchers who compile the index think the economy is flirting with a recession. The index of UK service activity dropped to 47.1 in June from 49.8 in May, for a second month in contraction territory. For the euro zone as a whole, the PMI service sector index fell to 49.1 in June from 50.6 in May, dipping into the red for the first time since June 2003.Yet the surveys offered little evidence that slowing demand was curbing the inflation pressures that have the ECB so worried. While some surveys showed companies were finding it somewhat harder to pass on their higher costs to consumers, there was little sign that upward pressures on corporate costs were easing in any convincing way.Denmark in recession after first quarter contraction Denmark has fallen into recession, the first European Union country to do so in the aftermath of the U.S. sub-prime crisis, after its economy contracted in the first quarter, official figures issued on Tuesday showed. The official statistics office said the Danish economy contracted 0.6 percent compared with the three months to December, when it saw negative growth of 0.2 percent.A recession is defined technically as two consecutive quarters of negative growth. "The numbers are very disappointing and even more so because they stem from many different factors. It adds up to quite a poor picture," said HSH Nordbank Senior analyst Erik Bennike. "Denmark is in what is called a technical recession. The Danish economy has been hit harder than we have estimated," said Danske Bank chief economist Steen Bocian. Compared with a year earlier, the economy contracted 0.7 percent in the first quarter, the statistics office said. Analysts had expected year-on-year growth of 1.3 percent in the first quarter and quarter-on-quarter growth of 0.2 percent.The statistics office said household consumption fell 1.1 percent in the first quarter, led by a 4.4 percent drop in new car sales. The government said in May that it expected growth of 1.2 percent in 2008 and 0.7 percent in 2009 after the economy expanded 1.8 percent last year.Denmark is a member of the European Union but has not adopted the single european currency, the euro. It is one of the 30 countries in the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development, which groups the world's richest economies.Global growth has been steadily slowing since the collapse of the US subprime or higher-risk home loan market last year sparked a credit crunch that has seen business starved of funding as banks refuse to lend. At the same time, record high oil and other commodity prices have stoked costs and inflation, undercutting corporate profits and investment.Ilargi: Back to the US, where we have another non-sensical spin report straight out of Washington. Apparently the markets will have a negative reaction regardless of the emptiness. Still, why they would even read these reports anymore, your guess is as good as mine.However, what the part of the population with actual functioning neurons has known for ages, numbers like 62.000 are but a fraction of real losses. I dont want to waste to much space on it, weve been there and done that. But Ill pick out one example, that I think underlines the "bogusiness". It doesnt get much crazier than pretending theres been job growth among carmakers: "Auto manufacturing and parts industries gained 5,600 jobs".Yes, sure, as car sales plummet 15-25%, and share values scrape the gutter, as GM shares are lower than at any point since 1954, and talk of bankruptcy is now no longer taboo among analysts, the industry creates jobs. Come to think of it, it must be quite liberating for the Labor Department and the B(L)S to not have to worry about their credibility any longer. Its gone.U.S. Loses 62,000 Jobs, Jobless Rate Holds at 5.5% U.S. employers cut jobs in June for a sixth consecutive month as soaring fuel prices and a slowing economy forced companies to reduce costs. Payrolls fell by 62,000 after a 62,000 drop in May that was greater than initially reported, the Labor Department said today in Washington. The jobless rate remained at 5.5 percent after jumping in May by the most in tw...
