Gold Rallies as Dollar Decline Boosts Investor Demand for Metal  By Millie Munshi July 31 (Bloomberg) &amp;#8212; Gold gained the most in three weeks after a report showed weaker-than-expected U.S. growth during the second quarter, sending the dollar tumbling and boosting the appeal of the metal as an alternative investment. Silver rose. The economy grew at a [...]  Gold Rallies as Dollar Decline Boosts Investor Demand for Metal  By Millie Munshi July 31 (Bloomberg) &amp;#8212; Gold gained the most in three weeks after a report showed weaker-than-expected U.S. growth during the second quarter, sending the dollar tumbling and boosting the appeal of the metal as an alternative investment. Silver rose. The economy grew at a 1.9 percent annualized rate, the Commerce Department said today, sending the dollar down as much as 0.8 percent against the euro. Gold, sometimes used as a safe- haven investment, rose to a record in March as the U.S. currency headed for record lows and the economic outlook dimmed. The rise in the precious metal is &amp;#8220;certainly coming off the dollar after the GDP report,&amp;#8221; said Leonard Kaplan, president of Prospector Asset Management in Evanston, Illinois. &amp;#8220;Gold looks very strong right now.&amp;#8221; Gold futures for December delivery rose $13.70, or 1.5 percent, to $926 an ounce at 10:48 a.m. on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange. A close at that price would be the biggest gain for a most-active contract since July 11. Economists were expecting the U.S. to grow at a 2.3 percent rate, according to the median of 79 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The dollar dropped to as low as $1.5688 per euro. Gold, priced in dollars, generally moves in the opposite direction of the U.S. currency. The metal reached a record $1,033.90 an ounce in March as the dollar headed to an all-time low of $1.6038 per euro on July 15. Haven Asset The precious metal may be insulated from a slowing global economy as investors turn to gold as an alternative to the dollar and as a haven asset, Evan Smith, who helps manage $1.5 billion at U.S. Global Investors Inc. in San Antonio, said yesterday. Prices may rally later this year, according to Barrick Gold Corp., the world&amp;#8217;s largest gold producer. &amp;#8220;Inflationary pressures&amp;#8221; will continue to drive gold higher, Barrick Chief Financial Officer Jamie Sokalsky said today on a conference call with investors. &amp;#8220;The outlook for gold continues to be very positive.&amp;#8221; Prices will be boosted by rising geopolitical tensions, continued concerns about the financial and credit crisis, and constraints on gold supply, Barrick said. The surging cost of gold, which has more than doubled since 2003, has boosted profit for mining companies. Barrick said today second-quarter profit increased 22 percent amid soaring prices for bullion. Silver Gains Silver also advanced after China said it will remove an export rebate on the precious metal. &amp;#8220;It is likely that the abolition of the rebate will depress exports&amp;#8221; from the Asian country, analysts at Barclays said in a report today. Silver futures for September delivery added 29.5 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $17.76 an ounce on the Comex. Silver has gained 17 percent this year before today. China is the worlds&amp;#8217; third-largest silver producer, according to Barclays. The country also removed an export rebate on zinc. The move comes as China steps up efforts to cut a record trade surplus. Capital Gold Group, dollar decline, gold safe haven, precious metals, silver, U.S. growth, gold group, gold, gold prices, gold news, gold coins, gold bullion, gold IRA, IRA gold, The Capital Gold Group 
