    In this weeks journal:   Editor&amp;#039;s Comment:     Phil Halliday    Vectors for funding exploration   Good moring ladies and gentlemen  WhenI was asked a couple of months ago to give this talk on explorationfunding the climate for finance was very different to that of today.Things are moving so quickly in the markets that by the time I havefinished my talk things may well have changed.  Two months ago,Lehmann Brothers was alive and well, the colussus that was AIG ruledthe insurance world and HBoS was alive and lending.   Theoverall picture for exploration funding is unclear and the rapidlychanging financial environment does not make things any clearer. In themain there is a deep gloom but patches of optimism. The main threadcoming through from the people at the coal face is that there is nomoney available for funding, as one chief executive put it last weekthe well has run dry.  However, what we really have is a worldof the have and the have nots, and for the have nots the currentclimate is extremely bleak. As we will see, most of the majors thatneed to, continue to spend millions of dollars annually on theirexploration programmes. Meanwhile, many of the juniors who are in needof cash just cannot get it. In the absence of funding they have fouralternatives: a joint venture or partnership with a funded company,sell their business, go down the path of royalties or go bust.  WhatI propose to do is look at the latest data for funding, which will showthat even up to the second quarter of 2008 there was a reasonablyhealthy funding climate. Then take the current temperature through theviews of chief executives and anlysts as told to me in the last threeweeks. These views highlight the rapidity at which commodity and equitymarkets move and the devastating effects these movements can have. Whowould have thought just a couple of months ago that aforementioned,titans of financial America, would fall to their knees. Or, closer tohome that HBoS, would succumb to vicous selling of its stock.  OnSeptember 11, Ernst &amp;amp;amp; Young published its Mining Eye index thatmonitors the performance of the AIM-listed mining companies on aquarterly basis. The data was for the second quarter of 2008.Fund-raising on AIM by the mining sector rebounded in the secondquarter with capital raised up 73% to 510m compared with 295m in theprevious quarter. Fund raising by the mining sector accounted for aquarter of total funds raised across the market. Three mining IPOs andsecondary fundraising drove this activity.  With remarkablyclear vision the report said that volatility was, and remains theoverriding trend during the quarter. There is no doubt that theripples of the credit crunch have permeated far beyond the financialand consumer spheres. A number of companies have reported diffcultiesin raising finance on favourable terms and face the real prospect thatthey may be unable to fund the ongoing development of projects. Howright they were.  Tim Williams, director, mining &amp;amp;amp; metals atE&amp;amp;amp;Y said: The consequences of project overruns or delays with theresulting depletion of cash resources to continue development are nowdire. In this environment, unsympathetic investors can very quicklycome to regard even good projects as unattractive or uneconomicinvestments.  Many of the executives and analysts that I havespoken to felt many mining stocks were undervalued and the Mining Eyeagrees saying that share price movements have become increasinglydisconnected from company updates on progress and current prices notnecessarily reflective of the underlying and future value placed on thecompanys assets by management. As one chief executive said last week:I have a market capitalisation of 1m and a 1bn pipeline.  Oneof the ways around the lack of funding is to seek secondary listings onother exchanges, often nearer to the location of their operations. DrWilliams said at least eight mining companies have either secured orstated an intent to secure a secondaty listing, in recent months.  DrWilliams concluded: The lesson, in the current economic climate, isthat funding is available but only for the right projects.  Researchfrom the Metals Economics Group portrays a similar picture of rapidlyincreasing funds raised by juniors between 2002-03 and 2007-08. Thegroups research covered all reported financings with a value of US$2mor more and is based on announcements made from July to June each year,including IPOs, public and private placements, convertible debentures,debt, and unspecified sources. In 2002-03, a total of 131 financingsraised US$1.98bn. By 2007-08 this had lept to US$24.76bn from a totalof 995 financings. Over this period, the price of gold rose 146% andcopper prices shot up 390%.  During the 2002-08 period about 70%of the capital raised came from equity financing, compared with 24%from debt and 5% from convertible debentures. The value of equityfinancings by juniors during this period increased by more than 1,000%to US$15.8 billion from US$1.4 billion. It is not surprising thedevastating effect the credit crunch has had given the predelection thejuniors had for financing through equity.   So the effects ofthe so-called credit crunch can be seen most noticeably in the area offunding and raising capital, particularly for exploration, or certaintypes of exploration. A diamond exploration consultant told me twoweeks ago that you cannot raise money for diamond explorationanymore. He said that investors want returns on their capital asquickly as possible but for diamonds there is a longer time time towait, typically six to seven years to get the project producing. Juniormining exploration companies usually raise enough funding for aboutthree years, if nothing happens by the end of that period, the climatefor further funding is harsh. The funding crunch is particularly harshfor the junior companies.   Magnus Ericsson, of consultants RawMaterials Group in Stockholm, painted a gloomy general explorationpicture. He is afraid there is not enough exploration going on becausethe funding is drying up and exploration costs are going up at the sametime as it is becoming harder to locate economically viable deposits.Exploration costs have accelerated faster than general inflation at atime when more exploration is needed. More advanced technologies neededto extract from tougher and more remote areas are also expensive todevelop.  A recent survey on Australia that featured in theMining Journal seems to paint a healthy explorations picture.Australian Bureau of Statistics data show that total mineralexploration spending for calendar year 2007 rose to a record A$2.06billion, an increase of 41% over calendar year 2006. Uraniumexploration expenditure for 2007 grew by 125% to a record A$181.4million while iron ore exploration rose by 58% to a record A$354.1million. Exploration was also up strongly for silver-lead-zinc (up86%), nickel (70%), and copper (up 49%). Gold exploration spending roseby 17% to A$502.9 million, its highest level in 10 years. However,these figures may not help us with the current funding scenarios as themoney that was used to fund all this exploration would have been raisedtwo or three years ago when market conditions were benign. But theycertainly serve as an illustration of how quickly things can go bad.  Toillustrate that there are glimmers of hope, Sydney-based FindersResources announced at the start ofSeptember that it was seeking toraise A$5m via a share placement. It said the funds would go towardsthe development of its copper project in Indonesia and furtherexploration work at its gold/silver project in Sumatra. Furthermore,Finders said it had received commitments from institutional and privateinvestors, as well as company directors. In a further note ofoptimism, the company also announced a share purchase plan to currentshareholders, which, if fully subscribed could raise an additionalA$2.6m.   So, what are the people at the coal face finding?Harry Anagnostaras-Adams, managing director of EMED Mining, confirms aharsh investment environment: Grass roots explorers are being shunnedby many of their traditional investors, the classic exploration companymodel may be rather a leper for some time to come. It is very importantto have cash and cash/flow or near-cash flow projects. If not, it iscritical to have a very supportive core shareholder and/or strategicalliances from long-term capital providers. He concludes: Any grassroots explorer who relies mostly on short-term speculators for capitalis in a very vulnerable position ...... there will undoubtedly beconsolidation.  In Canada, a mining analyst said its tough outthere, the junior mining space especially, its tough even for the guysthat came out with good results and found something. Some companieshave started merging on a pure no premium share swap. The modusoperandi is preserve cash, scale back any drillingprogrammes/advancements etc.  Scaling back is a term that hasbeen used frequently at three mining gatherings in the last threeweeks. Tony Williams, chairman of Arian Silver, said last week that hiscompany was scaling down on some areas until this malais passes. Hetold his audience that you do not explore on debt  as if debt wereavailable  and declared the well is dry right now. Whilst he predictedlots of good news from his company in the next few months he wasworking to a tight deadline as the US$3m he raised in April is enoughto see the company through to the end of the year. There will beconsolidation, people with cash will gobble up assets. This underlinesthe have and have not scenario.  Tim Coughlin, president andchief executive of Lydian International, said he was trying to get hiscompanys message across in a dismal market. He said he had scaledback a bit on the companys operations in Kosovo.  Among thejuniors are there any rays of sunshine? Kelly Cluer, director ofexploration at Altan Rio Minerals, said his group had access to ...
