         Hi ghu,  I made some comments on the Bank of Ireland before, so hopefully some UK colour on this story will be interesting too.   I am now waiting for someone to figure out how much this coup will enhance the book value of the post-merger LloydsTSB. If HBOS was bought cheap enough it could be a lot, but at this stage we, the investing public, have not yet fed any insights into the situation.   You should understand that there is considerable controversy about this transaction over here.  Fans (sorry shareholders and employees) of HBOS think that the price was derisory, and that LloydsTSB will sack thousands of staff (in England or Scotland according to where they are from) and the Scots are afraid LloydsTSB will make the company back into a completely English company. (The sacking staff bit is probably true, LLoydsTSB run an efficient operation although there have been rumours of agreements not to be heavy on redundancies in exchange for getting the government to allow the transaction. This takeover would never have been allowed a year ago on competition grounds, the combined operation has too big a % of checking accounts and mortgages.) Fans (sorry shareholders and employees) of LloydsTSB thought they owned/worked for the most conservative of the big retail banks and are afraid that HBOS was close to going bust and the buyout will actually harm the company. Apparently many of the staff at a large LloydsTSB office in Bristol (England) are concerned that the Labour government have extracted some agreement to preserve jobs in Scotland (Labour voting part of the UK) ... so their jobs will be at risk. As you can see, lots of FUD at the moment.  Realistically, there has been some concern about HBOS for a while as they depend on shorter term funding in the markets to fund their mortgage lending, and this has obviously more or less disappeared over the last months/year due to all the SIV/MBS/etc credit crunch goings on. I understand they are/were due to roll over a large amount of debt in the next 2 or 3 months and this may have proved difficult / impossible. On the other hand, they are clearly in the &amp;amp;quot;too big to fail catastrophically&amp;amp;quot; category, and probably too big for the government to take over like Northern Rock, so arranging some kind of private deal isn&amp;#039;t really that surprising.  The conclusion seems to be that there were definite liquidity problems (or potential problems) at HBOS and the buyout by LloydsTSB sorts this out, at least for now.   The other issue is price. HBOS shareholders are squealing that the price is way too low, while some Lloyds shareholders are concerned that they&amp;#039;ve paid money for something worth less than zero. It seems hard to tell at the moment as I haven&amp;#039;t looked into their mortgage holdings but they have a big % of the UK market and UK house prices are way above US ones and have started falling steeply in the last 6/12 months ... this cannot be good for the value of HBOS assets. On the upside, even though the price is  per share looks very low, the transaction is actually in LloydsTSB shares which are arguably undervalued just now as well, so I don&amp;#039;t think the deal is as bad as HBOS shareholders maintain if you take that into account.   The analysts following Lloyds will have to learn HBOS from the ground up to provide answers.   UK banking analysts should already know HBOS well, as they are/were the largest of the mortgage banks (roughly similar to Savings &amp;amp;amp; Loans) and the debate about MBS values has been going on for months now.   If Jim Grant and Eric Daniels are both right, LYG will turn out OK. AND LYG pays super dividends.   Be aware that although LloydsTSB were previously very keen on maintaining (i.e. not cutting) the dividend there are suggestions that they will need to cut it to restore their capital ratios in the combined group. And with a divi yield of 13%, the market clearly thinks this is fairly likely (or that there&amp;#039;s a chance of something even worse).  Also, you should note that there is debate about how certain the transaction is to complete, e.g. whether shareholders will vote it down (HBOS or LLOY) or whether some other party will make an offer. I would say the future of HBOS is very uncertain at the moment, and consequently that of LloydsTSB too. My guess is that LloydsTSB shares were a buy before this transaction was announced ... now I&amp;#039;m not so sure.  SA (Owner of a few shares in LloydsTSB, Barclays and the Royal Bank of Scotland (not HBOS) from a few months ago - and well underwater on those purchases. I bought these as having apparently good prices, but less risk than the mortgage banks like HBOS.)  PS. Check out the Banking Sector board on  fool.co.uk  for lots of useful discussion of UK banking and bank shares:  http://boards.fool.co.uk/Messages.asp?bid=50033                   
