Deflation looms in Japan Policy makers around the world fought yesterday to keep their economies from diving deeper into trouble, while Japan showed the effects of the crisis with data highlighting the risk of a damaging period of deflation. South Korea's central bank cut interest rates for the sixth time in four months in a bid to avert recession. Rates fell by half a percentage point to a record low 2 percent and the bank suggested further cuts were possible to support Asia's fourth-biggest economy, which is expected to contract this year. In Australia, the jobless rate rose to a two-year high and its planned A$42 billion (R273 billion) stimulus package was rejected by parliament yesterday when a key independent legislator joined the opposition in voting against it in the senate. Earlier in the week, US senators negotiated a compromise $789 billion (R7.8 trillion) stimulus package of tax cuts and government spending aimed at dragging the world's largest economy out of the financial crisis. The US bank bailout plan, unveiled on Tuesday, has disappointed markets. Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 3.3 percent yesterday and the yen rose again amid continuing investor aversion to risk. There was less concern about the stimulus package. Oil held above $36 a barrel after overnight losses, but US jobless and retails sales data due later yesterday could temper the generally positive reaction to the deal on the stimulus plan.  'I would not say that the worst is over yet, though in some parts of the financial markets improvement has begun to be seen,' Erkki Liikanen, a policy maker in the European Central Bank and governor of the Bank of Finland, said in an interview published yesterday in Finnish online business newspaper Taloussanomat. Japanese wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in the last 12 months, the first fall since December 2003. 'The data reinforced the view that further steps from the [Bank of Japan] are necessary to support the economy,' said Takeshi Minami, the chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. Already weak domestic consumption is under pressure from collapsing exports. Just six months ago, wholesale inflation in the world's second-largest economy hit a 27-year high of 7.4 percent on soaring oil and commodity prices. The current falling prices are an uncomfortable reminder for Japan of its last period of deflation, which lasted several years beginning in the late 1990s. - Reuters
