A senior economist says the rise in the minimum wage is in line with New Zealand's economic situation.  The government on Monday raised the minimum wage 50 cents, from $12 to $12.50 an hour, and will benefit 123,000 low paid earners.  The rise will take effect on April 1.  Cameron Bagrie from ANZ Bank believes it is going to be a tough year for business, so the government is maintaining the status quo.  He says in the future wage gains will be lower than what we have seen in the past.  Business commentator Brian Gaynor has also described the wage rise as sensible, noting that there has been little negativity from manufacturing lobby groups.  'Fifty cents is actually quite good. If you put them up too high it encourages employers to lay people off,' he says.  Leading up to the announcement there had been concern voiced from the business community that any significant increase would see labour become unaffordable.  However, Prime Minister John Key said on Monday that the 50-cent increase aimed to strike the right balance between protecting the spending power of the lowest income earners and protecting jobs.  Key said official advice is that the increase will have a negligible effect on employment.  Meanwhile, Labour is accusing the government of short-changing low income workers.  Labour leader Phil Goff says the minimum wage should have been raised to $13, with a rise of another dollar a year for the next three years.  He believes this would stimulate the economy as workers spend their extra money.  Similarly, Mike Treen from Unite, the union that led the campaign for a wage rise, says that while he is pleased with the 50 cent an hour rise, the government could have gone further.  'We're disappointed that the momentum that began under the last government of $1 an hour on average increase in the wage each year hasn't been kept up, because what that did was lift the minimum wage back towards what we think it should be,' he says.  Treen says the group would like to see the minimum wage at two-thirds of the average wage as was recommended by the 1973 Royal Commission, a figure which he says has been eroded.  'We're only just getting back towards that figure, we're at about half that average wage now, and we've lost that momentum with this recent decision,' he says.  The government announced on Monday that the youth training and new entrant wage will also increase from $9.60 to $10.00 an hour.  
