THE dollar was marginally firmer at noon despite markets interpreting the release of the minutes from the central bank's latest board meeting as gloomy.  At 12.00pm (AEDT), the dollar was trading at $US0.6502/05, up from yesterday's close of $US0.6492/95.  During the morning, the currency moved between $US0.6480 and $US0.6532.  Easy Forex senior dealer Francisco Solar said the dollar was trading in a tight range as markets lacked direction following the President's Day holiday in the US on Monday(AEDT). 'It is pretty much flow driven with the moves in the Aussie,'' Mr Solar said. 'North American markets were away last night, so it was quite quiet on the markets last night.''   Markets were initially down about the time of the release of the minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) monthly board meeting, Mr Solar said.  The central bank released the minutes from its February 3 board meeting today, showing it was downbeat in its short-term outlook despite 400 basis points in rate cuts since September and the first federal government's fiscal stimulus package. 'This stimulus would take time to be effective and could be expected to have only a modest effect on the near-term outlook in Australia,'' the RBA minutes said. 'Given the speed at which the global contraction had occurred, short-term prospects were thus still for weakness in demand and output.''  Mr Solar said the RBA, as expected, was more 'gloomy'' about the Australian economy.  ''(This was) where the board judged another substantial rate cut was appropriate the last time they met,'' he said. 'The RBA said global headwinds were strong, and GDP was expected to be flat in the fourth quarter of 2008. 'We have to see whether the market starts interpreting this as a wait-and-see approach or whether we will have a smaller cut.''  For the rest of the local session the negative sentiment following Japan's weak gross domestic product (GDP) announced on Monday would hinder the dollar, he said.  Japan's GDP data in was the worst in 35 years.  Mr Solar expected the Australian dollar to trade between $US0.6440 and $US0.6560, with the risk on the downside. 
