Moody's is reassessing its AA1 ratings of Westpac, the Commonwealth Bank, National Australia Bank and ANZ because sharper than expected falls in growth and employment could hurt asset values and earnings.  Last year Moody's said it would keep the rating stable if economic growth remained near 1 per cent and unemployment below 7 per cent, but on Wednesday night it said: 'These metrics may well be breached.' Treasury has forecast growth will slump to 0.75 per cent in 2009-10 with unemployment rising from its current level of 4.8 per cent to 7 per cent by June next year, but many economists have a much bleaker outlook.  Any downgrade would be a blow to investor confidence in overseas markets, where some are anxious that Australia's economy could be set for a big decline because of high levels of debt.  Offsetting the possibility of a downgrade, Moody's pointed to positives for the country's banks, including comparatively high levels of capital and strong funding profiles supported by government-underwritten debt.  However, an analyst at the agency, Patrick Winsbury, said even with the government guarantee, any change in rating would affect domestic interbank borrowing and fund-raising when the Government eventually lifted its guarantee.  A credit analyst at Citi, Mark Read, said a change in rating could mildly dent confidence, but investors were generally positive towards Australian banks.  The largest ratings agency, Standard &amp; Poor's, has given the big four banks a rating of AA with a stable outlook. But 38 per cent of all the Australian banks it assesses have a 'negative' outlook. Moody's also warned that Australia's building societies had been forced to 'dramatically slow new lending' in the mortgage market, as they face increased funding pressures and competition for retail deposits.  The warning comes even though there are fewer competitors in the home loan market after acquisitions by the big banks and the withdrawal of non-bank lenders. 'After years of enjoying ample lending growth, the building society sector is experiencing a period of much slower loan growth, which is impacting profitability levels,' Moody's said.
