Australians are becoming savers again because of the economic slowdown and fears of a possible recession, an economist says.  JP Morgan chief economist Stephen Walters said the rise in the household saving ratio was due partly to worries about the domestic economy and possible job losses. 'People anticipate that things are going to get grim and that they may even lose their jobs,' Mr Walters said. 'The natural reaction to that is increase your savings.' Households increased their share of savings to 3.9 per cent of their income in the September quarter, up from 0.2 per cent nine months before, Australian Bureau of Statistics data showed.  The rise in savings occurred despite lower interest rates, Mr Walters said.  Since September, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) has cut the cash rate by four percentage points to a 45-year-low of 3.25 per cent in a bid to cushion a flagging economy.  Interest rates for online savings accounts were above seven per cent in August, but have since fallen to below four per cent. 'The return is lower, but the driving force is anxiety and fear, that is what is key,' Mr Walters said. 'You could have a bare positive return, even zero per cent, and people would be saving because they have become very cautious all of a sudden.' In the RBA's quarterly statement on monetary policy on February 13, the central bank noted households had begun to save more and reduce debt. 'Housing deposit growth increased to an annualised pace of around 30 per cent in the three months to December, up from 15 per cent a year earlier,' the central bank said.  Household credit growth slowed to an annualised rate of three per cent in December, down from 12 per cent a year earlier, the RBA's statement said.  The pace of growth in private sector credit shrunk 0.3 per cent in December, RBA data showed.  Mr Walters said it was the first contraction in credit growth since the last recession, in 1990-91. 'People are not borrowing as much, they're repaying more and they are not only saving, they are also paying down debt as well,' he said. 'It is quite apparent that spending has to weaken a lot because people are not spending the same share of their income as they were years ago.' A consequence of increased saving and less spending is that firms reduce their capital spending and staff, for they anticipate further savings by consumers, Mr Walters said. 'They cut back on employment and that makes people even more inclined to save and (is) therefore self-defeating.' Mr Walters forecasts the unemployment rate to jump to nine per cent by late 2010, from January's 4.8 per cent.  The federal government was less pessimistic in its updated economic and fiscal outlook, forecasting a seven per cent jobless rate next year.
