TOKYO, Feb 10 (Reuters) - Some Group of Seven nations may raise the issue of exchange rates at a weekend meeting in Rome, a senior official at Japan's finance ministry said, although he offered few clues on whether Tokyo will complain about the damage a strong yen is doing to its export-reliant economy.   G7 finance leaders will agree to act promptly to support economies hurt by the global financial turmoil, and fiscal sustainability will also be debated as they have become more alert to the issue of unwinding huge spending plans, he said. 'They won't say it aloud when they are striving to stimulate their economies, but each country is becoming very conscious about how to exit these policies,' the official told reporters.  Finance ministers and central bank governors from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States meet in Rome on Friday and Saturday as they try to find a solution to the deepening credit crunch.  U.S. and European bond yields have risen on fears of huge debt issuance as policymakers dish out trillions of dollars in bailouts and fiscal stimulus packages to tackle recession.  Some nations may talk about exchange rates in discussions on the global economy, as is always the case, the official said, adding that he had no preset idea on what the G7 communique would say on currency moves.  Asked if Japan will take up currency issues at the G7 meeting, the official said: 'That depends on how discussions on overall macroeconomic conditions develop.' Japan, like the United States, is in recession and can ill afford a rising currency, which puts an extra choke-hold on exporters that are cutting jobs and shuttering factories in the face of a global slump in demand.  Tokyo has let off verbal volleys against sharp rises in the yen, but so far Japanese officials have stopped short of saying they will intervene in currency markets, and many market players do not believe they will.  The G7 nations have stuck to their stance that excessive exchange-rate moves are undesirable without singling out a currency until October last year, when they issued an unusual separate statement warning against sharp rises in the yen.  Despite a couple of bouts of additional strength since then, the yen's exchange rate heading into this weekend's G7 is almost exactly where it was before the statement, at around 91 yen per dollar.  MESSAGE AGAINST PROTECTIONISM  Japan expects to hear from U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner the outlook for the U.S. economy and what measures it is taking to tackle the crisis when he meets Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa on Friday on the sidelines of the G7 meeting, the official said.  Investors are keeping a close eye out on developments over a U.S. bank bailout plan, expected to be unveiled by Geithner on Tuesday, and stimulus packages to help the distressed economy.  Tokyo also hopes the G7 sends a clear message against trade protectionism, which Nakagawa has said will be taken up in Rome.  U.S. President Barack Obama's multi-billion dollar stimulus package, which still requires congressional approval, generated concern in some countries, who fear its 'Buy American' clause is protectionist.   Jitters over the plight of U.S. and European banks have prompted risk-averse investors to hoard the yen, pushing it to a 13-1/2-year high of 87.10 yen against the dollar last month. The dollar has since regained some ground and stood around 91.30 yen on Tuesday.  The yen rally has hammered exports and pushed the world's No.2 economy deeper into recession, with big exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp and Sony Corp slashing jobs and cutting output to cope.  The Japanese economy is expected to have suffered its biggest contraction since 1974 in the final three months of last year, a Reuters poll showed.  Japan has not stepped into the currency market since a 15-month yen selling spree that ended in 2004 in which it sold 35 trillion yen ($383 billion) to prevent yen strength from snuffing out an economic recovery.  The Finance Ministry sets foreign exchange policy, deciding whether and when to intervene, while the Bank of Japan implements it. 
