Fortunately yesterdays rally looks like it will hold up under the weight of bad economic data and ongoing concerns over bank solvency. Still, the S&amp;P 500 was oscillating around zero for a lot of the session and as usual the bulk of the rally was into the close.  At least we have a time-frame for the solvency question. Treasury announced that stress testing would be completed by the end of March. They also announced that firms found to be needing capital would have six months to raise it privately before tax-payer funds would be required. That has the potential to be a turning point for the market and after the stress tests have been applied, I reckon anyone wanting to still question things should either put up some rock solid facts or shut the hell up.  The facts as they stand at the moment are that most US banks are 'very well capitalised, indeed this has been repeatedly stressed by Bernanke. If people want to question that, fine, but provide some factual backing and give us your assumptions. Its a difficult environment to do that though, and the question as to how to measure fair value is key. Mark-to-market valuation clearly doesnt provide an accurate measure in times of financial distress and it is reasonable to assume that some assets  as Bernanke highlights  are being misvalued.  The data that rocked the markets most was the existing home sales, which were expected to rise by 1 per cent. They actually fell a further 5.3 per cent in January. Just after that data the S&amp;P 500 and Dow both hit their lows of 752.8 and 7156.7 respectively. From there stocks went bid and look to be undergoing a solid rally into the close; the catalyst for this appears to be an interview with the CEO of Bank of America who is expressing confidence that the bank will pass the stress test easily and forecasts earnings of $100 billion in 2009. As of now, the S&amp;P 500 is up 0.8 per cent to 779 with financials rising by 3.5 per cent and energy stocks up 1.2 per cent  a modest rise in the context of a 7 per cent jump in oil prices to $US42.4  the highest in about two weeks. The Dow bounced of its lows to be 35pts higher, or up 0.5 per cent, to 7386. Otherwise the NASDAQ was up 0.5 per cent while the SPI rose 0.8 per cent.  US Treasuries sold off sharply, the curve modestly steepening (185bps from 182bps). This is despite reasonably strong demand for the $32 billion of 5-year notes. The new notes stopped at 1.985 per cent versus the indicative when-issued trading of 1.980 per cent (when issued trading range: 1.805 per cent to 1.984 per cent). The cover ratio was 2.21 times, better than the 2.13 average for 12 previous auctions. The amount awarded to indirect bidders such as foreign central banks and large institutions was a solid 48.9 per cent against an average 27.8 per cent previously. 'Indirect bidders' bid for $18.7 billion and were awarded $15.6 billion, or 83.5 per cent against an average 85.0 per cent. Again its the issue of supply overwhelming the market and the $22 billion 7-year issue is tomorrow. The yield on the 2s, the 5s and the 10s were up 7, 12 and 13bps respectively, currently at 1.1 per cent, 2.01 per cent and 2.94 per cent. Aussie contracts were sold off with Treasuries and are feeling the impact of that equity rally. The 3s are down 7bps to 93.73 and the 10s are off 12bps to 95.67.  In other news, UK fourth quarter GDP was confirmed at -1.5 per cent q/q and 1.9 per cent y/y, while Germanys growth for that quarter was confirmed at -2.1 per cent q/q and -1.7 per cent y/y. There were some interesting comments from the ECBs Weber (President of the Bundesbank). He stressed that central banks need to consider how to withdraw all this stimulus once conditions stabilise. Ive written on this before and it underpins my expectation that the RBA will be hiking before year-end. He suggested that once things stabilise the ECB will probably have to raise rates quite quickly. In the interim though his absolute floor for rates is 1 per cent. On the data front, mortgage applications fell in the US by 15 per cent as demand for refinancing slumped by 19 per cent.  Looking at the day ahead, and after yesterdays surprise jump in engineering construction, todays numbers for capital expenditure will be very interesting. Im expecting a pretty decent fall in machinery and equipment with overall capex to fall 3 per cent. Nevertheless the strong result for building and engineering work done probably creates some upside to that forecast. Even so, with a lowish single digit fall in machinery and equipment its unlikely that fourth quarter GDP will be negative. US data includes new home sales, durable goods with forecasts not surprisingly for ongoing weakness. In Europe German CPI and labour market stats are released.  Adam Carr is senior economist at ICAP Australia. See Business Spectator's glossary for definitions of technical terms used in SCOREBOARD articles.  Related Industry Sectors  View the latest stories on Economy  View the latest stories on Financial Markets  Related People  View all stories on AXEL WEBER  View all stories on BEN BERNANKE  Related Companies  View all stories on BANK OF AMERICA  CONTRIBUTE TO THE CONVERSATION  Comments are submitted for possible publication on the condition that they may be edited. Please include your full name, title and a working email address (for verification, not publication). Preference will be given to succinct contributions. We may contact you via email prior to publication.  
