ECONOMISTS have bet against a March interest rate cut but are mixed on future rate movements following Reserve Back governor Glenn Stevens' speech today.  Appearing before the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics, Mr Stevens said Australia was well-placed to ride out the global financial and economic crisis, particularly because monetary policy was working much more effectively. 'There are reasonable grounds at this stage to think that the Australian economy will come through this very difficult episode, certainly not unscathed but well-placed to benefit from a renewed expansion,'' Mr Stevens told the committee in Canberra.   HSBC chief economist John Edwards said there was no mistaking RBA governor Glenn Stevens' affirmative tone'' in assessing the Australian economic outlook in his opening statement. 'The testimony strengthens our view that the RBA will leave the 3.25 per cent cash rate unchanged in March, and that 3.25 per cent may well prove the low,'' Dr Edwards said in a research note. 'The RBA will only need to cut more if things get worse than it now expects,'' Dr Edwards said.   ANZ Banking Group senior economist Katie Dean said only a sudden and unexpected turn for the worse was likely to prompt the RBA into further easing. 'The governor's relatively upbeat view certainly suggests the the pace of easing will be more measured from here,'' Ms Dean said. 'A pause in March appears to be a significant possibility.''   St George Bank chief economist Besa Deda said rates were likely to fall to a record low of 2.25 per cent in the current easing cycle.'We continue to look for more RBA rate cuts in coming months, but believe that the size of the cuts will be smaller and there may be some pauses between meetings,'' St George's Ms Deda said.  Commonwealth Bank chief economist Michael Blythe said the RBA was likely to keep interest rates on hold in March, and cut rates by 50 basis points in April.   This would take the cash rate to record low 2.75 per cent. 'While a terminal cash rate in the twos looks quite high relative to the cash rates in place in other countries, there was a suggestion in the governor's testimony that interest rates were getting close to the point where further easing would not be effective,'' Mr Blythe said.  During the question-and-answer session, Mr Stevens said it was not the RBA's ''present expectation'' that the cash rate would fall to zero.   The RBA has delivered 400 basis points of interest rate cuts since September last year, lowering the cash rate to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent.  
