The global downturn means a budget deficit is inevitable, Treasurer Wayne Swan says.  He said that was because of the unwinding of the mining boom and the Chinese economy, with a $50 billion hit to Australian company tax receipts expected over the next four years.  That would result in a very big hit to the budget bottom line.'What that means is because of the unwinding of China, the global recession, it will be inevitable that Australia has a temporary budget deficit,' he told the Nine Network on Sunday  Mr Swan said the government had to make sure its spending was sustainable in the long-term and consistent with national and international circumstances.  That would allow a return to surplus over time, he said.'In these circumstances a temporary deficit is required,' he said.'It is actually the medicine the country needs to deal with the impact of this global recession which is impacting on growth and jobs.'That follows a prediction from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) last week that the economy would contract, shrinking by 0.2 per cent in 2009. But the average deficit across developed nations is an even per cent, it said.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) is tipped to cut interest rates again next week by as much as 75 basis points.  Mr Swan said the $50 billion reduction in tax receipts over four years was enough to push the budget into deficit on its own but there would be other impacts as well.  He said in the mid-year economic forecast in November the government wrote down revenues from all tax sources by $40 billion.  Since then, the global situation had deteriorated further and Australia was not immune.'The global recession will give Australia a temporary deficit but of course that is happening right around the world,' he said.'We are much better positioned than many other countries.'Mr Swan said Australia had to respond by supporting domestic growth and the government was ahead of the game, launching its economic security strategy last October at just the right time.  He said the benefits were flowing through the economy now but more was to come.'What we are doing right now is looking at all options, given the substantial deterioration that has occurred during that period and the grim outlook that now comes out of bodies like the IMF,' he said.Mr Swan said he had a strong preference for direct investment in nation-building infrastructure.  He said incentives for business investment were always important.'But we must never forget that in this environment where there has been a collapse in global demand, the most important thing for the government to do to stimulate the economy is to stimulate demand so that business actually has some customers,' he said. 
