Andrew Cuomo won his  second Chutzpah of the Week award (with positive connotation) for the  subpoenas he issued to John Thain (formerly Chief Executive Officer of Merrill  Lynch) and J. Steele Alphin (Chief Administrative Officer of Bank of America,  which now owns Merrill Lynch) as part of his investigation of the (shall we  insert "obscene" here?) bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch executives just before the  acquisition by Bank of America.  This investigation has now led to the case  of Cuomo v. Thain being heard before the New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan (Case Number 400381/09);  so it seems fair now to present a  Chutzpah of the Week award to Bank of America for its current strategy for  pushing back against Cuomo's prosecution.  As Reuters  reported this morning:   Bank of America Corp (BAC.N) said it could suffer "grave harm" if it is   forced to reveal data about an estimated $3.6 billion of bonuses paid to   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co officials in the days before the bank acquired the   brokerage.  In a petition filed late Wednesday in a New York state court in Manhattan,   the bank urged Justice Bernard Fried to reject New York Attorney General   Andrew Cuomo's demand for the data, which the bank believes should be kept   confidential.  The report also elaborated on what constituted that "grave harm" to Bank of  America:   Bank of America said revealing the data could help rivals poach talent,   prompt employees to leave because their privacy was violated, cause   "internal dissension and consternation," increase security risks for bonus   recipients, and give rivals a better idea of which businesses it considers   most valuable.  Do this issues carry any weight?  That decision can only rest with Judge  Fried.  I actually do not know to what extent the judge will be influenced  by Cuomo's motives, which I saw as  the primary justification for his chutzpah award:   I can think of no better way to throw a harsh bright light on the    failure of the banking sector to provide the Government Accountability   Office with the data necessary to monitor the bailout money they have   received than to launch an investigation of a particularly egregious use of   that money.  It seems to me that, if this case is ultimately about abusive practices with  government money, then a verdict that acknowledges those practices will do far  more harm than any of the issues Bank of America cited.  Cuomo is appealing  to the need for accountability, and I suspect that support for his intentions  now go all the way up to the White House.  Outside of the objective arena  of the New York State Supreme Court, who is there to speak for the defendant  other than the corporate voice of Bank of America;  and will the American  public, stuck  with paying the bill for this bailout, find that voice persuasive?
