The Charlotte Observer is reporting that an investment group affiliated with a coalition of unions on Thursday has called for Bank of America Corp.'s board to remove chairman and chief executive Ken Lewis, citing his disastrous missteps as leader of the nation's biggest bank.In a letter to lead director Temple Sloan, the CtW Investment Group noted the 90 percent decline in the Charlotte bank's stock since Lewis agreed to buy Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in mid-September and the ongoing controversy over the payment of $3.6 billion in bonuses to Merrill employees before the deal closed Jan. 1.Removing Mr. Lewis is now a necessary prerequisite to restoring (Bank of America's) credibility with shareholders, regulators and the public, William Patterson, CtW's executive director, wrote in the letter. If Lewis is not ousted, the group will call on shareholders to vote against the re-election of Lewis, Sloan and corporate governance committee chairman Thomas Ryan at the April 29 shareholders' meeting. In January, Sloan issued a statement supporting Lewis. A bank spokesman could not be immediately reached for comment. Lewis has said that he considered backing out of the Merrill deal in December as Merrill's fourth-quarter losses mounted. But he proceeded under the urging of government officials. In a Financial Times interview this week, Lewis called it a tactical mistake to accept $20 billion in government aid to help stabilize the acquisition. He has said the bank doesn't need any more capital to weather losses. The CtW Investment Group works with pension funds affiliated with Change to Win, a coalition of unions with 6 million members. The pension funds are substantial long-term Bank of America shareholders, the group said. Last year, CtW expressed concern about risk management practices at Bank of America and other big banks. CtW said it met with Sloan last spring and he assured the group that the board was diligent in its management oversight. Rallying shareholders to oust directors is a difficult task in corporate America.Separately, Bank of America director Meredith Spangler will not stand for re-election in April. She has reached the mandatory retirement age of 72, her husband, Dick, said today. The Charlotte couple is the largest individual shareholders in Bank of America. MeanwhileBloomberg Business Reports is covering Bank of America's battle with the State of New York by arguing that disclosing the identities of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. employees who were paid $3.6 billion in bonuses just before the firm merged with Bank of America Corp. will cause grave and irreparable harm, said lawyers for the companies. Bank of America today filed documents in state court in Manhattan to intervene in a case brought by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo to compel former Merrill Chief Executive Officer John Thain to testify about the bonus recipients. Neither the individual names nor the job titles bear any reasonable or relevant relationship to Cuomos investigation, the firms argued in the documents. Nor is there a reasonable or relevant reason to disclose such information to the general public. The information Cuomo seeks would provide a road map revealing which business lines the banks believe to be most valuable and enable competitors to poach the banks top talent, Bank of America argued in the court filing. Disclosure of the information would also cause internal dissension and consternation, pose security risks for the exposed bankers and their families, and cause employees to leave, according to the filings. What a mess!
