The case of Andrea Orcel&#8217;s bonus is interesting, and not merely to Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general who has issued a subpoena to the Merrill Lynch banker in his inquiry into the bonuses that Merrill paid before being swallowed up by Bank of America. Mr Orcel, who is in charge of international corporate and investment banking for Bank of America, gained a bonus of $33.8m for his work for Merrill in 2008. In 2007, his bonus of $38m included a one-time fee of $12m for working on Royal Bank of Scotland&#8217;s disastrous 71bn consortium bid for ABN Amro. The case illustrates the difficulty in curbing big payouts for investment bankers, even those employed by state-backed, and partially state-owned banks such as Bank of America. As a corporate financier, rather than a trader or securities broker, Mr Orcel can argue that he had nothing to do with the derivatives and mortgage-related securities that brought down Merrill. Instead, he was out and about advising on deals worth $550m last year, according to &#8220;people close to him&#8221;. On the other hand, a lot of investment banking is not just a matter of advising companies but underwriting share and bond issues and generally providing financial backing. In the case of the ABN Amro deal, Merrill underwrote a 13bn share issue for Fortis, a member of the RBS consortium. Advisers such as Mr Orcel thus gain revenues, and bonuses, by being part of a large, full-service bank that can put its capital behind its clients (or could, when it had enough capital). Then there is the question of whether investment bankers&#8217; advice is actually useful and whether they should be allowed to keep their bonuses if deals in which they are involved go wrong. The RBS-ABN Amro bid is a case in point. Mr Orcel could be a big fee producer for Bank of America, so Ken Lewis, its chief executive may well want to keep paying him well, lest he depart for a boutique investment bank. But some element of his work in the coming year will be subsidised by the US taxpayer. It will be very tricky to fix his bonus for 2009, even leaving aside Mr Cuomo&#8217;s interest.
