Four early goals against state power make the difference in victory  After defeating local rival Red Bank Catholic just two days earlier, Christian Brothers Academy was ready to face state power Delbarton. Head coach Ryan Bogan knew that the Colts would be up for the challenge.  'Every game is very important to us, but when we get the schedule each year, you have to immediately look for Delbarton and when you're going to play them,' Bogan said. 'It's just another game for us.'  CBA quickly staked itself to a 4-0 lead early in the second period, before watching the Green Wave storm all the way  back to score three goals. The visitors had a chance to tie things up as they were on a power play late in the third period. But stellar defense in the end made the difference, enabling CBA to hold on for the 4-3 victory. Even with the early lead, Bogan was not  convinced that the game was over.  'At 4-0, we just told our guys to stay even-keeled,' Bogan explained. 'Just like in every other sport, when a team is losing, they're bound to make a comeback, and Delbarton is not just an average team. We knew they'd make their run, and they sure did.'  Two goals from Tim Clifton helped the Colts take the early lead, along with one goal apiece from Trevor VanRiemsdyk and Kyle McAteer. Two goals within four minutes of each other by Delbarton narrowed things by the end of the second, followed by another goal early in the third.  ERIC SUCAR staff The Christian Brothers Academy hockey squad celebrates after winning their game, 4-3, against Delbarton at Wall Ice Arena on Jan. 14. The Colts' record currently stands at 14-1-2.  'Once they started scoring, we didn't change a thing,' Bogan said. 'I wasn't disappointed one bit with the way we played today. Our goal is to make it to the state finals, and we may end up seeing them [Delbarton] along the way, so I really think this gave us some confidence.'  Following the Delbarton game, the Colts defeated St. Augustine's, 6-3, on Jan. 16 and then played to a 2-2 tie versus Seton Hall Prep on Monday, giving CBA a 14-1-2 mark heading into last night's game against Don Bosco. CBA will face Delbarton again on Saturday.  'We've been playing very well lately. Our only loss was a while ago [a 3-1 defeat against Bishop Eustace on Dec. 5] and we'd like to keep it that way,' Bogan said. 'Each game we play, we do try and change things just a bit, and hopefully that'll pay dividends down the road.'  
