 Panther fans watch the televisions at Fox and Hound in uptown as they take on the Tennessee Titans at Ericisson Stadium in Charlotte. Pop Culture columnist Tonya Jameson will be spending time uptown on Panther Sunday scoping out places to watch the game and absorb the vibe if you don't have tickets. DAVID T. FOSTER III-STAFF  10/19/03 Panther fans watch the televisions at Fox and Hound in uptown as they take on the Tennessee Titans at Ericisson Stadium in Charlotte. Pop Culture columnist Tonya Jameson will be spending time uptown on Panther Sunday scoping out places to watch the game and absorb the vibe if you don't have tickets. DAVID T. FOSTER III-STAFF  10/19/03 Panther fans watch the televisions at Fox and Hound in uptown as they take on the Tennessee Titans at Ericisson Stadium in Charlotte. Pop Culture columnist Tonya Jameson will be spending time uptown on Panther Sunday scoping out places to watch the game and absorb the vibe if you don't have tickets. DAVID T. FOSTER III-STAFF  Cans Bar uptown is expecting big crowds all day. Specials include $4 Miller Light Tallboys. Miller girls will be in the house to help run Miller's Trashtalk Promo, which lets Panthers fans talk smack with Arizona fans via text and TV. Starting at 6 p.m., the bar will open its lower level to accommodate crowd spillover and a DJ will start spinning after the game. Open at noon. 500 W. Fifth St. No cover, no reservations. www.cansbar.com.  One official NFL Carolina game jersey will be given away at Lake Town Tavern. Must be present to win. Other jerseys and sports memorabilia will be for sale. Specials include $5 WooWoo and Jolly Rancher shots; $2 select bottle beer specials and $5 loaded nachos and chicken quesadillas. Open at 1 p.m. 19708-K W. Catawba Ave., Cornelius. www.laketowntavern.com.  Picasso's uptown offers the closest location to Bank of America Stadium and has 22 HDTVs. Drink specials include $2 Bud Light and Miller Lite cans. The sports bar opens at 11 a.m. Get there early to guarantee a seat. 222 S. Church St. No cover. 704-376-8767.  Fox &amp;amp; Hound uptown will be offering its usual game-day specials: $2.50 Bud and Bud Light pints, $4 23-ounce Sam Adams drafts and $5 golden margaritas. Open at 11 a.m. 330 N. Tryon St. 704-333-4113.  Enjoy Alley Cat's giant HD projection screen and multiple plasmas during the game. The rock 'n' roll bar will have a special game-day tailgate menu and drink specials. Special halftime and post-game performance by U-Phonik. Doors open at 7 p.m. 314 N. College St. No cover until 10 p.m. and no cover all night for those wearing Panthers garb. www.thealleycat.com.  '80s resurrection band Blue Monday will play during halftime and after the game at Midtown Sundries' Denver location. Open at 11 a.m. 7296 Highway NC 73, Denver. No cover. www.midtownsundries.com.  Phil and Tony's Italian Cuisine Sports Bar is offering $2 Miller Lights and $5 martinis. Open at 11 a.m. 2225 Matthews Township Parkway, Matthews. www.philandtonys.com.  The Charlotte Checkers moved their Saturday game from a 7 p.m. start to a 1 p.m. start to accommodate Panthers fans. As an added incentive, if you wear a football or hockey jersey, blue line seats are only $12. 333 E. Trade St. www.gocheckers.com. Sarah Aarthun  Subscribe to The Charlotte Observer &amp;amp; Earn Miles.  
