US Bank, title sponsors of the US Bank Championship since 2004, have advised the organisers that they will not be picking up a three-year option on their contract beginning in 2010, according to the Milwaukee-Wisconsin Journal Sentinel.  The tournament did not have a title sponsor in it first 36 years until 2004 when it was called the Greater Milwaukee Open, but following its low TV ratings and poor public support last year when, for only the second time in its existence, it was held on the same weekend as the Open Championship, it is unlikely to be revived under its original name and unless new sponsors can be found it may no longer exist next year.  Bill Bertha, president of the Wisconsin market for US Bank, told the Journal-Sentinel that bank officials were disappointed with low ratings on the Golf Channel and the poor attendance at Brown Deer Park since the PGA Tour had switched the tournament's dates two years ago and 'put it opposite the British Open'.  Aurora Health Care have also decreased their sponsorship commitment to the event and will play 'a much less significant role,' tournament director Dan Croak has confirmed.  'We're not blaming anybody,' Bertha said. 'Other companies didn't see the value of entertaining clients and no revenues were being generated above operating costs, other than what we were subsidizing.  'Nobody cared. A very good analogy is that we threw a multi-million dollar party for Milwaukee and Wisconsin, in a park with tents, refreshments and entertainment - all the bells and whistles - and nobody showed up.'  Tournament officials have not released attendance figures but it was generally agreed by seasoned observers that the galleries last year were noticeably smaller at Brown Deer Park than they had been in the years before the date change in 2007.  Bertha said US Bank had spent a total of about $10 million on sponsoring the tournament since 2004.  Tournament officials have acknowledged that in the current economic climate when hundreds of companies are shedding staff and down-sizing, notably in the banking and auto-maker sectors, traditionally the mainstay of the PGA Tour, new sponsors will be hard to find.  Because of its 'encumbered' dates, the tournament is subsidized by the PGA Tour, but while the Tour may keep the Milwaukee event in its schedule in 2010 it could and would not support the event indefinitely if another title sponsor cannot be found.  US Bank have not said they could no longer afford the sponsorship, but rather that it was no longer worth the money and in a climate where money is tight, the question that remains is who will be next?  Will it be Buick? They are sponsoring two PGA Tournaments this year but, as part of the General Motors giant, have only been saved from bankruptcy by a multi-million US Government bail-out and may not be able to afford to renew their sponsorship next year.  Let's not forget they have already dropped Tiger Woods and nobody wants to be seen flashing sponsorship money around when they are cutting jobs  The same might be said of Honda, who have pulled out of Formula One racing, and Barclays and Wachovia, who like most of the US and European banks, are having a hard time just keeping their heads above water right now.  
