Generally, Darci Strutt considers herself to be prim and proper. But to be a proper Klondike Kate, being prim wasn't going to work. 'I had to take naughty lessons,' she said. The education paid off Wednesday night as she beat out a half-dozen other women competing for the role of the bawdy Gold Rush-era cabaret singer that has been a staple of the St. Paul Winter Carnival for decades.  Ya gotta be able to sing, and ya gotta be able to sass. 'I've been singing since I was 4,' said Strutt, of North Hudson, Wis. 'And I'm working on the naughty part.' She will be, uh, strutting her stuff in feather boas and red lipstick at more than 300 appearances over the next year. About 100 of them will be spent with the Royal Order of the Klondike Kates, which is composed of previous winners.   On Wednesday night, more than 350 people showed up to watch the contest. The selection of Klondike Kate is the unofficial start to the Winter Carnival, which runs from Jan. 22 to Feb. 1.   There will be several new events this year, including a pee-wee hockey tournament, ice boat racing at Lake Phalen and a blues festival, which will feature the Klondike Kates.   The Kate contestants were judged on musical performance, song choice, costumes, vocal ability, crowd appeal and authenticity in portraying the character.  Strutt, 48, brought the house down with her final number, a combination of 'A Guy What Takes His Time' and 'Hey, Good Lookin'.' Two years ago, Strutt attended a tea to learn about what it would take to be a Klondike Kate. She took formal voice lessons the next year and worked with a costume expert. She competed in the contest last year and lost in the final round, mostly because she was too nice.   So she signed up with a theater coach to teach her some attitude. 'I needed to really hit that character of a saloon singer,' she said. Strutt, who is married and has three children and two stepchildren, is excited to get to know the other members of the carnival's royal family. She said her employer, U.S. Bank, is being very flexible with her upcoming schedule.   Strutt can't wait to pile up the performances and perfect her alter ego. 'They tell me watching me perform a year from now, I'll hardly recognize myself,' she said. Strutt will perform with previous Kates at the Klondike Kate Winter Carnival Cabaret. It starts at 7:30 p.m. Jan. 24 at the Holiday Inn East, at Interstate 94 and McKnight Road.  For more information about Klondike Kate and other Winter Carnival events, go to www.winter-carnival.com.
