A Paul Williams strike in the opening half was enough for Abbots to take an interval advantage.  But Marsh Lane struck back early in the second when Luke Reece netted.  Sam Jones then gave the Abbots Arms the lead again only for Reece to to level with his second goal.  The Abbots then secured all three points after Sam Jones got his second and Ben Lewis wrapped the game up.  The Leprechaun, second in Division Three, played their game in hand on the leaders and closed the gap to five points with a 5-1 home win over the Burntwood.  Johnny Crossley netted a brace and one from Graham Sumner enabled the   home side to take a 3-0 interval lead.  Although Steve Coles got one back for the Burntwood, Crossley completed his hat-trick.  The Hare and Hounds maintained their push for the top with a 3-0 home success over the Potters Wheel.  Danny Turley got the only goal of the first half, running the whole length of the pitch and rounding the keeper.  He got another after the break and Adam Davies made sure five minutes from time.  The Royal Oak lost 6-1 to its visitors the Swan.  Jay Edwards scored the goal, but this proved far too little with the Swan netting through Mark Hannigan, Ben Cheeseborough, Sean Antrobus, Glyn Jelley and Neil Wynne (2).  The only game in the top flight of the WREXHAM LEAGUE came between the two bottom sides of Division One, Nags Head beating Cunliffe Arms 5-0.  Owen Williams and Ryan Valentine netted in the opening half and Williams added another after the break together with strikes from Chris Baker and James Taylor.  The New Inn moved up into second place with a 10-2 home win over the Black Lion Reserves.  The Inn hit six before the break with no reply, the goals came via Darren Greenway (5), Nathan Mitchell (3), Sean Barton, and Robert Hodkinson.  The Black Lion responded with Anthony Docherty and Ellis Denyer netting.  Marchwiel Villa dropped to third place following a 2-2 draw at the Queens Head.  Alan Cartwright gave the visitors the lead with Sean Evans levelling by the break.  Cartwright then edged Marchwiel in front, only for Andy Hanill to enable the Queens Head to share the points.  Dee Miller moved into the quarter finals of the CHESTER SUNDAY LEAGUE League Cup after a comfortable 7-2 victory over Blacon S&amp;SC.  Simon Andrews the main tormentor, bagging four goals, while brother Danny snatched two more, Luke Jackson adding the other, whilst Scott Chard and Gary Ellams replied for the Social.  One other cup game took place, Grosvenor Celtic entertaining Western Rangers in round one of the Bill Gresty Memorial Trophy.  At the midway point Rangers had a 2-1 advantage, but took complete control in the second half to run out 8-1 winners, the goals flowing from Eddie Bloomer (3), Matt Davies (2), Richard Deponio, and a couple of own goals.  One Section B match also survived the wintery conditions, with Upton YC throwing away a 4-1 lead against Bank of America and having to settle for a point in a 5-5 draw.  First half goals from Simon Hunker (2), and Mike Gerrard (2), looked good enough for the visitors, but Bank fought back, through Brian Worrall (3), Matty Owen and Ben Carrighar, whilst Damien Bryan made   sure the away side shared the spoils.
