          So says The Format. I wish they'd get back together. RIP.There is a lone ketchup packet on my desk. I've been eyeing it for two days now, and for some very odd reason, I can't find it in me to throw it away. I probably will eventually, but for right now, I'll just leave it alone. I'll bet it'll appreciate that.Work tonight was much better than usual. I've warmed up to my co-workers, and I think I've found a place in their circle. Or.. something like that. I think it all began when John towel-snapped my ass and the laughter that resulted from my failed attempts at getting him back. I think my favorite co-worker so far is Matt. I'm not sure why. He's a very quiet individual, but I find him to be good company whenever he does choose to speak. Also, he has very odd-colored eyes. They are very catching. Very catching, indeed. He's also began calling me, "Kat." I'm not sure why.It is fifteen minutes past three in the morning and I can't go to sleep. Instead I am listening to John Mayer's "Clarity" because it played at work a few days ago and I haven't been able to get it out of my head ever since. Perhaps it'll be gone by tomorrow morning. I struck up a lot of conversations with my tables today. This elderly couple talked to me about UT and my major, as well my baffling love of "limp" fries as opposed to extra crispy ones (which the older gentleman prefers). Oh, this man at the bar called me over from across the freakin' restaurant to tell me I was pretty. It was awkward. So. I need to practice my towel-snapping. As well as becoming a "shark" when it comes to taking tables. Apparently, I'm too nice and because of this, I won't make any money. And also, there is just an awful lot of ass-grabbing at work. I mean, between employees. It's kind of.. yeah.Why am I talking about work so much? Oh, because that's ALL I'VE BEEN FREAKIN' DOING. My ACC classes start on Monday, so we'll see how that goes. I may need to cut back on my hours, but I really don't plan on it. Even if I should. I won't.I'm this close, THIS CLOSE, to finally purchasing a bike. I haven't found any that accommodate a person of my height, although I don't think I'm unusually tall/short for a girl. But I found a yellow bike that is a bit more than I initially wanted to spend, but it has been the best I've come across so far. This may be it! Cross your fingers!Also, I've been interacting with such nice people lately. The guy at the bank was incredibly nice to me and very sociable, which was enjoyable. He thanked me for smiling at him because he said that not many of their customers are in good spirits when they pay Bank of America a visit. The guy at the gas station also assisted me in deciding between different car washes, as I haven't had time to wash my beloved Honda myself. Okay, I'm just rambling now. Normally, I would delete the last few paragraphs because they are just one tangent after another, but I'll leave it alone. Like that ketchup packet... oh, that ketchup packet.           
