 Okay. so i have xanga for my thinspo blah n pics shizz. This is going to be where I talk about it. too many people have my xanga for me to feel safe on. This makes me feel so much better (: I had work today, from 9am til 6pm. It was actually better than I expected. Alot better than I expected. (: The last few weeks have been shit. Mainly because of Natalie I guess. Not personally to me; i love her to pieces. + i'd do anything to change what shes going through. But because shes killed the whole group. I feel like none of my friends want to talk to me because of her. I feel like shit :( I miss the feeling of being apart of something. Something new. Something inspiring. Its been crushed before me, + because shes my best friend I cant really do anything to stop it, except for be there for her, + try to enjoy what I have for now. I also dislike how everyones so depressed. Everyone seems to have there problems; + i really am the girl that just sits here n smiles + trys to cheer everyone else up whilst covering up my own problems. Like my fucking life is perfect; it doesnt mean i have to go broadcast it all though. I just wanna get so drunk. I wanna have fun let go; I never wanna care again. I dont want to fall in love. I wish i was emotionless. I wish i wasnt so insecure, more confident. I wanna be able to fuck whoever + not care the next day about what I did or what they saw or who I am. and this is the thing I hate mostly about myself. I hate how vulnerable I am, how I like people, + fall so hard. When im upset they could make me feel better with a kiss, but when im happy i probaly wouldnt of even gave them a chance. I miss HIM. Josh. Ive not seen him for a year, but every guy I meet is nothing compared to him. + i wonder why I cant move on. I cant stop thinking about him'the world would be a lonely place, without the one that puts a smile on your face.'my world is a lonely place; clouds seem to be always shattered across the ceiling of it. I feel trapped; inside a box. + only he can open it + help me find the light again. I feel like everythings dull; this is my hell. + i'd do anything to find the heaven in where he is. i so wish i were a story writer. I'd do anything for it. I just can never think of main amazing storylines. Im only really good at the small details. anyways; i cba writing more. :) this'll do. my rant of the day.love you. Xx
