 One day I will be the kind of girl that can relate to this song in every possible way. (I hope)As the days roll on and as the years pass and I slowly get older, I realise more and more just how alike my mother and I are. This, unfortunately, includes my affection [is displayed and received] towards people I am supposed to be close to (or let's just say, the lack of), and the saddest thing is that even at my young age, I feel like there is nothing I can do to change the way that I am.I used to think that I could be the person that is able to put their heart and soul out in plain view and be comfortable giving affection in the most honest way. That I can be the person that can show she is passionate about the things and people that she loves. Then again there's the thinking I can and then of course the extremely poor execution. Or, honestly, the no execution at all.I guess I never have/will be that person?It's not even like I'm scared (or so I think), but after being guarded for so long, I just feel like I physically, mentally and emotionally do not know how to be that kind of person. I just don't freakin' know.There is a girl that I work with that is so incredibly emotional. It's almost to the point of being over-sensitive (although coming from a girl that seems emotionless, my opinion is probably null and void), and I envy her so much. Her ability to just put herself out there and be so vulnerable. To be in love with life and people and not care. To just jump in feet first. I want to be that vulnerable.I have even started to think that I will never be the marrying kind.. ever. Amazing how much my attitude towards life and love has changed so much in span of just a few months. When did I become such a miserable piece of crap? Seriously?I know it sounds crazy, but I know I am missing out on something amazing because of the way that I am. It may seem safe, but safe is no way to live.Maybe if I keep this song on repeat it will eventually sink in and I will just change... overnight, preferrably.Work today felt surreal. I have two more days of talking to customers and then I am peacing out from St George bank. It's been fun - and I have to say that it is the best job and environment that I have ever worked in. I hope that wherever I move onto next (if I'm not going back) can meet at least a tenth of the standard that STG has set in terms of being an employee.I must also say that thank god I took that job interview with Sinclair.I think these past few months are definitely a testament to me making a lot of really good decisions for myself.Although as I think about it, the absolute best decision I made this year (or more, late last year... but let me cheat so it makes 2008 seem even more awesome) was quitting the sinking ship that was/is Tel.Pacific/Wix/G-Node/Blitz/Supernerd.On to my weekend...A girl that I have known forever and a day; one that was part of my past, is now part of my present and will remain in my future, turned a year older. I had a moment today when I was so grateful that we moved past everything we have been through and are now good friends, better friends.But it's good to see that we still laugh until we feel like peeing our pants.From the corpse-fucking to the goat-mounting.. good god. Haha. Don't ask.It was nice to go out with a group of people and just eat good food and have a laugh without any hassles. It's almost kind of a shame that I'm leaving now, it would have been the first year that we spend the "festive" holidays together.
