The seed is the word of God  To: President George W. Bush From: Frank Paul Gambino RE: The Reality of my Money Matters Date: 7 July 2008 You already possess all the qualities you need to succeed in life, but the harsh truth is you have not been using them to any great extent. The cosmic picture on your birthday urges you to stop drifting and start driving yourself towards a worthwhile goal.  You have done as much thinking and planning as is good for you - now you must convert your thoughts into deeds and your plans into concrete realities. It won't just happen as if by magic. Only you can turn your life around. So get to it. What we are doing is a piece of work; I am in the process of calling in my markers and am sending out collectors to pickup what is due to me.&amp;nbsp; Why you think I can write the plan in plain English without fear of someone stealing the ideas, it is because the ideas are based on the debts owed me. It is not money laundering by any means but I do plan to give to Bush what is Bush's, but I also expect the high rollers to give to God what is God's. For some reason we are having a miscommunications and I guess you are asking me to spell it out, Janet is one of many collectors I will send out and they will give services and in return my money in escrow will be released and I will be as charitable in the process as possible.&amp;nbsp; You are right it will not happen like magic it will happen through a series of business transactions. If I say we want to sell $15M in block tickets sold to the government through charitable contributions of politicians and big business corporations this is not request it is an ORDER TO SUPPORT THE DAMN SHOW.&amp;nbsp; I made my money and now it is time to collect it and settle with those I owe and the existence of Live Nation, Paramount Pictures, Bank of America and the lot is evidence I settled now they are going to give me my money through services rendered. Lk 20:23 He saw through their duplicity and said to them,&amp;nbsp;  Lk 20:24 "Show me a denarius. Whose portrait and inscription are on it?"  Lk 20:25 "Caesar's," they replied. He said to them, "Then give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's."  Lk 20:26 They were unable to trap him in what he had said there in public. And astonished by his answer, they became silent.....  Please do not force me to explain things you should already know; I am the seed and I am the word, it is my job to plan and it is the job of the body of Christ to carryout the plans.&amp;nbsp; I say it and my will be done.&amp;nbsp; Now we should be on the same page and the first order of business is to SUPPORT THE TOUR Vigorously and diligently.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; I expect everything I asked for plus more out of the kindness and gratefulness of your hearts, all the way down to the high tech stage presentation. Lk 8:10 He said, "The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but to others I speak in parables, so that, " 'though seeing, they may not see; though hearing, they may not understand.'  Lk 8:11 "This is the meaning of the parable: The seed is the word of God. 2Ch 1:1 Solomon son of David established himself firmly over his kingdom, for the LORD his God was with him and made him exceedingly great. 2Ch 1:2 Then Solomon spoke to all Israel..to the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, to the judges and to all the leaders in Israel, the heads of families---  &amp;nbsp; Lk 20:41 Then Jesus said to them, "How is it that they say the Christ is the Son of David?&amp;nbsp; .... Lk 20:42 David himself declares in the Book of Psalms: " 'The Lord said to my Lord: "Sit at my right hand  Lk 20:43 until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet." '  Lk 20:44 David calls him 'Lord.' How then can he be his son?"  &amp;nbsp; Jn 1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.&amp;nbsp;  Jn 1:2 He was with God in the beginning. Frank Paul Gambino 
