 OK, I didn't actually swear out loud but I can tell you that the air (because that is all there is) inside my head was pretty blue today.  After booking our first proper family holiday ever today we went to Tesco as there is a sale on (well worth checking out) to buy some holiday clothes for the children.  Feeling very smug about the bargains I was about to acquire, we went to the check out.  The feeling of smugness soon disappeared when our card was declined (so embarrassing).  We went to the cash machine: more than enough to pay for our shopping in our account.  Odd thinks us.  So we took out the cash paid for our shopping and came home.  Checked out bank account nothing odd there.  Went to pay for a book on e-bay: card declined.  Very odd me thinks.  So I call Barclays...Turns out some muppet had stolen 115 from our account today, so Barclays put a stop on our card.  Feeling of embarrassment experience in Tescos, now turns to feeling of immense gratitude to Barclays for acting so quickly.Suddenly my mother's intuition kicks in:  we have April and Grace coming over this evening and I haven't bought anything for tea yet as I was going to get something when I came into Barton later.  Now have no debit card and no cash...oh dear.  Mad dash into Barton to get to Barclays before they close armed with every bit of ID I posess.  So I managed to empty my account, and so set off to give Lewis some money for petrol.  Get to the police station and suddenly realise what has happened to us. Lewis comes to the desk in full uniform to be met with a tearful wife saying something along the lines of "someonehastakensomemoneyoutofouraccounttodayanditreallysucksthattheywoulddosuchameanthingtous!"Ofcourse all of this is in such a high pitch frequency that the police dogs probably made more sense of it than Lewis did.  Very kindly Lewis walks me back to my car to make sure I am ok...and so it shoud end...but this is my life. he he :)  As we get to my car in the car park we notice that a young lady has broken down.  So Lewis goes over (in his uniform) and offers to help her jump start the car from car, which she gratefully accepts.   So we go over and help her out, while passers by do double takes at a PCSO trying to jump start a car from a battered Mondeo with a hole in it!  Lewis sent the young lady on her way home with some very good advice about how to make her journey home safe with a dodgy car.  He also sends me off on my way home with reassurance that he will come home if I need him to.  Bless, what a hero!
