 Damn... fucking just got my mail and found out I am somehow 70 bucks overdrawn on my Bank of America account, and after I pay this TWO FUCKING HUNDRED DOLLAR POWER BILL, I will have about $120 to last me. Until AUGUST. FUUUUUUCKKK. UGH GOD DAMN I AM SOOO FRUSTRATED. *headdesk* I'm so sick of plans always changing.Honestly, it really does feel like I'm going crazy sometimes. Life no longer feels like I'm surmounting challenge after challenge, I'm not clearing the hurdles anymore. These days it's like I'm doing all I can just to get by. Financially and emotionally. Barely making it to the next day, just trying to wait until something better comes along. Waiting does nothing though... "good things come to those who wait" is crap. I know as well as anyone else that you have to get up, get out and get something. It's a vicious circle because I'm not fighting for anything, I feel like crap. And because I feel like crap, I don't feel like fighting.There's so many things I just want to blurt out.Actually, I think I will get something off my chest right now.If your name starts with a C and you're reading this.. well to tell the truth I am still pretty sad because of what happened. You knew I had wanted to see you for months and months, and your only reason for not visiting (after I spent 2 hours in the car to get you, 2 hours back, and then the same trip all over again to take you home) was that you get BORED DRIVING.I wish you knew how much this really bugged me.Honestly, if your need to not be "bored" outweighs your need to see me, then it's pretty clear we're not as good of friends as I thought we were. If you've even noticed.. I quit asking, I quit talking, I don't even know what to do. Why bother.Maybe I am being too dramatic. It's more than "maybe".I feel like I'm growing up too fast... and at the same time I feel like there's so much of me that is still sooo immature and childish. I get so upset over the stupidest things. Like this, this is retarded. Who is seriously going to waste their time reading this, and yet this is why I write, isn't it? I get bored when people's posts are nothing but the same bitching whiny crap over and over. But this is me for now.I guess for the rest of the day I will just pay my bills, see how much I have left and try to budget accordingly. I also have to go to the office and put in my "not renewing lease" notice, which they may charge me fees for. I hope not. I did neglect my responsibility to do that earlier, maybe they will cut me some slack since I was burglarized while living here.Its so stupid. The way you say everything that's wrong right now and it makes it seem like such a pity fest. I can't fake optimism right now.RB... I feel we're drifting apart too...I hate living alone
