 I'm not the best with money, I'll admit it. I suck at managing my finances. As a result, my checking account is overdrawn to the tune of $75. Two charges to the account went through that tacked on two $30 NSF fees onto my account. Those banks suuuure love those fees.In any case, the company I work for banks with Bank of America, or at least that's who holds the account that the paycheck is drawn from. Of course, living in Central Alabama, there isn't a BoA within a hundred miles. It's like the only place in America that there's no Bank of America. I really need all the cash from my check; I can't afford to cover the deficit in my bank account right now. So, in essence, I need to cash the check.So I go to the bank where my company handles its deposits: a local Wachovia. I don't bank with Wachovia. The teller and I go through the whole rigamarole of taking my two forms of ID and putting my thumbprint on the check... and Wachovia wants to take a $21 dollar fee out of the check for a non-depositor. That's fine, it's better than the $75 it would take for MY bank to cash the check. But along the way the teller notices that they don't have an "agreement on file" for cashing BoA checks. So, in effect, I'm SOL at Wachovia for cashing my paycheck. That right, I can't cash my paycheck at the same bank that my company handles their local deposits.I try to do the same thing at RBC, but they spot the BoA check and immediately refuse. Again, fair enough.So, defeated, I resign myself to go to my bank, Aliant Bank, and eat the NSF charges. However, I know that from past experiences that the bank won't let me cash a check unless I already have money in the account to cover the check. I've had to get a manager's approval for cashing a $600 check while only depositing $100 of it. I head into the bank and go straight to one of the account managers, who I give the check and explain the situation. I just need to deposit enough to get the account back into the black and I need the rest of the money back. But the manager at this bank says I can't do that, since my account won't have enough money to cover the balance of the check. In fact, she notes that they aren't supposed to cash the check at all since it's a BoA check. Remember, this is my own bank telling me that a) they can't cash my paycheck unless I have funds in my account to cover the amount I want to cash and b) they're not supposed to cash these checks in any case since they're from BoA, a bank that doesn't exist in our area. She says that I need approval from my account officer, who is stationed at a branch in Wetumpka.Wetumpka is 20 miles north of Montgomery. What the fuck? "So I have to go to Wetumpka if I want my paychecks cashed?" I ask. The account manager doesn't say anything, but her look of pensive dismissal pretty much says it all. It just so happens that I have a reason to go up there: I go to my Mom's apartment to wash my clothes and the branch is on the way. So I stop by and see the account officer... who takes all of two seconds to mark an approval and I cash my check for $80 less than its face value. I don't know if I have to do this for every payday because unless I win the fucking lottery, I'm never going to have the funds in my bank account to cover a paycheck and my company ain't switching banks to satisfy me.And before you say "Direct deposit!" I have reasons for requesting a paper check that I won't detail here. Just believe me when I say that they're good ones.But of course, that's not the end of things...After all that rigamarole with the paycheck, I head to my Mom's place, get my clothes washed and head downtown to pay my on my car loan. After that's done, I go back to my apartment to take some meds that I forgot that morning (I could already feel my head buzzing from the missed dosage. That's Bad.) and to find my power bill and see what I owed.Of course, what else do I see hanging on my door handle than a disconnection notice from Alabama Power that my electricity's been cut off and a nice fat fee to reconnect it. Fucking lovely. Of course, the place to pay the power bill is back downtown, a couple of blocks from where I paid my car statement. Sigh. My own fault for not taking my medicine in the morning, but the little door hanger was just a right kick in the balls.Got some new icons going up in the meantime, cropped out of the AC art I commissioned. This one looks pretty good for frustrating posts... but is completely out of context. I'll get a little thrill out of it for a while. At least until FA comes back up and I can share the source material with an audience. ;)So how's everyone else's Friday going?
