 This just in...Mt. Vernon  18th Congressional District candidate Fred Dailey today called on Zack Space to return more than $20,000 in campaign contributions from Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY), who has used his congressional office to solicit money for the taxpayer-funded Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service.The Washington Post had this to say:"In the corridors of money and power in New York City, Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-N.Y.) is called simply 'Mr. Chairman.' Everyone knows that he's chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. With his sway over tax and trade policy, captains of industry around the country are eager to have his ear. So when a letter from Mr. Rangel, especially if it's on his congressional stationary, arrives, the 19-term Harlem congressman receives close attention."So far, according to the Post, Rangel  using congressional office stationary  has raised $12.2 million for his "monument to me," including a $1.9 million taxpayer-funded earmark, $690,000 in grants from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, $100,000 from the New York City Council, $7.1 million from foundations and $2.3 million from individuals.  He also got a $5 million "gift" from the C.V. Staff Foundation, which is chaired by Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg, former head of insurance and financial services giant AIG.Despite such a busy fundraising schedule, Rangel has found time to give more than $20,000 to Space's campaign.  Space used to have a problem with such blatant hypocrisy.(ZackSpace.org 9/2006):  "I don't care if you are a Republican or a Democrat; if you don't practice the highest of ethical standards, you must step aside.""Zack Space should practice what he preaches," said Sean Bartley, campaign manager for Dailey for Congress.  "This is yet another example of Zack Space saying one thing here at home and doing another while in Washington, D.C.  Space should return Rangel's money and apologize to the 18th Congressional District for turning into just another Washington politician."Sources: CQ Moneyline, FEC.gov
