Having served 38 years in the House, Rep. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.) has accomplished quite a bit. This election cycle is no exception, receiving more money than any other member of Congress from seven different industries. Lately, however, Rangel's methods of raising money have been questioned.  Having served 38 years in the House, Rep. Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.) has accomplished quite a bit: he co-founded the Congressional Black Caucus, served on the Judiciary Committee during Richard Nixon's impeachment hearings and has authored legislation that created jobs and affordable housing. This election cycle is no exception. Now chairman of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, Rangel has also earned the distinction of receiving more money than any other member of Congress from seven different industries, including the insurance and pharmaceutical industries.Lately, however, Rangel's methods of raising money have been questioned. House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) and the nonprofit Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) have accused Rangel of using official congressional stationery to solicit contributions for an academic center that he helped start last year with a $1.9 million earmark. By using his House letterhead, Rangel violated ethics rules by implying federal support for the center, both Boehner and CREW assert, although Rangel says he hasn't violated any rules. The Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service at the City College of New York has a goal of raising $30 million, which is about double what Rangel has raised for his own re-election campaigns since 1989. The congressman has solicited donors who've contributed to his House races, including real estate mogul Donald Trump and representatives of major insurance corporation American International Group (AIG), to help the center reach its target. Trump has maxed out his contributions to Rangel this cycle with $4,600, bringing his total donations to the congressman to $17,100 since 1993. In this cycle alone, Trump has given more than $110,000 to federal parties, candidates and committees. AIG has also been giving heavily this cycle, donating $639,300, which is already more than what the company's PAC and employees contributed in the 2006 cycle. Rangel has collected $9,000 from the company since 2007, all from its PAC, and $53,600 since 1989. Although both presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain have received about $40,000 from AIG, neither is the top recipient this cycle, leaving that honor to Sen. Chris Dodd (D-Conn.), who has collected the most out of all candidates since the 1990 election, as well. AIG has also spent more than $3.9 million on lobbying this year. Among the firms that the company has hired is Akin, Gump, which is a top contributor to Rangel for this cycle, giving him $19,300. Lobbyists rank among Rangel's top 10 contributing industries this cycle, giving at least $98,600. The insurance industry, which includes AIG, is the congressman's number two industry at $296,800 since the start of last year. When looking at Rangel's career, insurance companies are the congressman's top industry, having donated nearly $1.3 million to his last 10 re-election campaigns. 
