  1.  AHHHHH!!!  WHYYY!  ARE! YOU! GUYS! SO! AWESOME!!!  (This means you, Eagles!  And also, six contests?  You must all have been drunk when voting.)  2.  Probably more important: Am back from the reef, one day early.  All whingeing abbreviated here: All three of my cards were declined for payment, and after given ridiculously shit reasoning ("Bank of America?  The banks in America must be sleeping right now."), I only had enough money in my Westpac account (Australian) to pay for 2 day/1 night, instead of the 3/2 I had planned.  So I got back today and had to find last-minute accommodations (ie: rocked up to a hostel, asked if there were vacancies -- was successful the 2nd time around), which I did find for just $19!  Good job, Janice.  3.  The reef was amazing.  After a few rainy night in Cairns and days with overcast, the last two days were beautiful.  Living aboard on the boat was an experience in itself.  I also tried one intro dive (I spoiled myself a lot, so I'll have to live cheap until I come home), which went all right, but my mask kept sliding around.  I definitely want to try scuba diving again someday, though.  But it was absolutely gorgeous.  4.  Photos from Kuranda are coming.  I'm currently at an internet cafe so I can't get to my photos now, nor do I have my laptop on me.  I didn't hire an underwater camera when I went out to the reef, so I don't have that many photos, but from me to you: Great Barrier Reef is a "put this on your lifetime to-fo list" sort of place.  5.  GAUSTAD AND LALIME.  BUT GAUSTAD.  FOUR YEARS!!!  Honk for the Goose!  And for email notifications from sabres.com!  6.  Began The Unbearable Lightness of Being, and it is beautiful.  7.  I could probably write a story about this, but there was one girl in particular on the reef trip that was so, uh, interesting?  Do you ever get that?  I guess she was about sixteen, with the rest of her family.  Her mother was from Oregon, and I think her father was Australian, but she and her brother grew up near Canberra.  She was always very antisocial, except for once in awhile, when she'd say a few things and laugh at my sarcasm.  You always wonder what those people are thinking about when they stare out into the ocean and only sixteen.  8.  Haven't read my f-list.  Don't know if I will any time soon.  Still haven't mailed those postcards; I've one left to write, but they're back at my other hostel, so they should be mailed within the next two days, I promise.  9.  Since I saved $4 on accommodation (okay, that's not the reason, I just spoil myself despite lack of money), I had a proper dinner today with a glass of wine even, after watching another beautiful pink-orange-purple sunset near the lagoon.  10.  I also really like my tan.  Two more weeks and I'm home.  It's crazy.  I hope you all are well.  
