Attitude adjustments: to deal with an employee's bad attitude, focus on his or her specific behaviors HR Magazine, &amp;nbsp;July, 2005&amp;nbsp; by Dick GroteHarold S. Hook, the former CEO of American General insurance company (now AIG), once opined that there are only three ways to make a basic, fundamental change in a person's attitude: deep psychotherapy, deep religious conversion and brain surgery.He may be right. The problem is, there aren't many managers around who are qualified to apply any of Hook's techniques.  If you are managing an employee with a "bad attitude," trying to fix it will do no good. The best way to deal with an attitudinally deficient employee is to put aside your concern about the attitude itself and concentrate instead on the specific behaviors that are sending your blood pressure into the stratosphere.What's a Bad Attitude?  When you think about it, a bad attitude is just a judgment made by one person about another person based on what that individual says and does. It's a label slapped on another person's behavior when someone else doesn't like that behavior.  But rather than using judgments and labels, the trick to solving attitude problems is to focus on objective facts. For example, you really never know for sure what kind of attitude an employee took with a customer unless you were there. What you do know is that a customer complained about being treated rudely.  Even when you witness what you consider to be a bad attitude, you should always focus on the behavior--what this person said or did--not the attitude.  "But it isn't just what he said," you argue. "It's the way he said it. It's his tone of voice, and facial expression, and mannerisms and demeanor." OK, let's agree that the cause of the tactless behavior really is some deep-seated attitudinal deficiency. A person's core attitudes are pretty well fixed by the time he's 3 years old. There's not much you can do about that now.  What you can do, to start, is when you feel the need to confront someone who is in need of an attitude adjustment, never use the word "attitude." It's futile. Any person with a genuinely vile attitude has probably had that fact pointed out to him so many times that he's anesthetized to it. Raising the attitude issue one more time will undoubtedly be unproductive.  Instead, get specific. Is the person egotistical and credit-grabbing? Does she spend too much time socializing? Does he pout or sulk when he doesn't get his way? Or is she rude, surly and inconsiderate? All these behaviors are different, but all of them are commonly slapped with the "attitude problem" label.  Start by narrowing the issue to the specific problem or concern that's bugging you. Then write down the actual behaviors and actions--the evidence that the person is behaving in an unacceptable way. Be sure to record the non-verbal behaviors along with the verbal--make note of rolling eyes, arms crossed tightly against chest, slow negative head-shakes.  Keep track of how often the behaviors occur. No one is always rude to customers; no one never helps other team members when a project deadline approaches. Get your times, dates and places exactly correct. This is a situation where keeping a log has a genuine payoff.  Once you have an accurate and complete summary of grating behaviors that have generated the "attitude problem" diagnosis, you're almost ready for a discussion. But not quite. First you need to answer the question, "So what?"  So what if the person behaves this way? What difference does it make? Your goal here is to be fully prepared to explain not only what the person is doing that causes concern, but why the situation must immediately be changed. Answer the following questions:   * What is the impact of the individual's inappropriate behavior?  * What are the business reasons for why the organization expects employees to act in ways other than the way this employee is acting right now?   * How is the person's behavior at odds with the standards expressed in the company's statement of vision and values?   * What effect does the negative attitude have on customers and co-workers?   * What are all the adverse effects of this individual's choice of behavior?   Addressing the Issue  With your written list of the unacceptable physical and verbal behaviors you have observed, the list of times and dates when those behaviors occurred, and your summary of the business reasons that an immediate correction must be made, you're fully prepared and ready to talk.  Having this written list will enormously boost your self-confidence in raising the issue. Find a private place to talk. Discuss the situation with the individual and explain that his behavior--not his attitude--is causing a problem.  Here's a way to get your discussion off to a good start: "Jack, I have a problem, and I need your help." Saying "I" instead of "you" reduces defensiveness. Then talk about the specific things you have seen and heard--the things you know for sure--that concern you. Tell the person exactly why they concern you, and then ask for the person's help in solving the problem. 
