Okay, I guess I should begin with the wedding...since that was where I left off nearly 3 months ago!Wedding was nice. I posted lots of pictures, I'm sure most of you had a look. I didn't lose anywhere near as much weight as I wanted to, but, oh well. That's what happens when your on "elephant hormones"I think the upsetting thing for me was that everyone arrived in Vegas HOURS before I did, so when I wanted to have a de-stressing drink with my girlfriends the night before the wedding...well, they were all already drunk and couldn't have any more! So THAT was a big dissappointment for me.Anyway, I would have thought I'd have a lot more to say about the wedding, but I don't. The cermony was simple and nice. I didn't like the photography session though. After the wedding I just kind of wanted to get out of there and have my godfather and Pete take pictures elsewhere. It didn't work out that way. And by the time we were done with the photo shoot we needed to get to Maggiano's. So I was a little irritated by that, but I kind of had to let that feeling go and adopt a "just go with it" attitude. I was much more relaxed during dinner. And dinner was EXCELLENT.The rest of Vegas was fun too. Expensive, but fun. Jon and I saw Cirque Du Soleil's Ka with Lauren, and we also saw Monty Python's Spamalot, which he REALLY enjoyed! We ate at this really fancy/expensive&amp;nbsp; steakhouse at the MGM before the Cirque show too. I felt really spoiled by that.Oh yeah, and then my wallet got stolen the night we saw Spamalot. That was NOT FUN. Only because my bank made it a pain in the ass to cancel my debit card and get a new one and I had to call like 4 differnt numbers and be put on hold for an hour and a half because "Your Bank Of America account isn't coming up...Oh wait, your a former La Salle NOW Bank of america customer? You need to call THIS number!" Took me 3 weeks to get a new card, and then when I did, the PIN didn't work properly so I had to wait ANOTHER week to get another card. I'm gonna switch banks soon.Well, that brings us back home. All is well and good here, summer is going good, I'm taking classes at Lill Street art center.I finally got Nanami spayed...Oh boy, I should do a seperate blog about her visit to the vet. My little fighter scared a dog 10 times her size while we were in the waiting area! I went to pick her up in the evening after the surgery and I get her carrier back with bright orange stickers on it reading "CAUTION: WILL BITE!"&amp;nbsp; and I'm thinking "Yep. That's my Nanami"&amp;nbsp; Only I became worried because my little fighter seemed to have lost her fight when I brought her home. The "Will Bite" sticker hardly seemed to apply to her anymore. She was so calm and quiet ...and so darn affectionate! Is this the same cat? What did they do to my cat?! She's being GOOD!Don't get me wrong. I love the good and affectionate Nanami. It seemed a blessing. But was her experience at the vet so traumatic that she lost her will to fight? Lost her sense of mischieviousness? This is a cat who would say "I don't want you to pet me right now" by biting my hand (gently) and kick my arm away with her hind legs, was just letting me hold her and pet her for days on end, she didn't attempt to knock anything off the tables or countertops (her favorite activity) and slept curled up on my feet every night, which she hasn't done since she was a 4 month old kitten. I was concerned only because this didn't seem like "Nanami" behavior. I understand that perhaps she wanted me to hold her and reassure her I still loved her, that I didn't mean to leave her at the vet by herself where she was under a lot of stress. But I just wanted to know that there was still a little of the old Nanami in there somewhere! Yes, she was being a very good little cat, but she wasn't acting like MY cat. Well, that didn't last too long. Oddly enough, the night before she went in for her surgury, I started a painting of the Egyptian Goddess Bast. I guess I had her on my mind because I wanted her to keep watch over my baby. Bast is usually pictured as having a woman's body with the head of a cat, usually a black cat. I painted my Bast as darker gray cat, because my Nanami is gray. I stoped working on the painting after I brought Nanami home, and after a few days when I saw the overall change in her behavior, my mind turned back to the Goddess again. I've been working on it more on my spare time since then. And as the painting gets closer to being finished, thankfully, Nanami seems to be acting more and more like her old playful, mischievous self!I think I'll hang the painting near Nanami's favorite spot in the house- in my office by the window!That's about it. Not much else going on. In my on-going struggle to lose wight I have given up caffeine and sugar. Trying to cut back on carbonated beverages as well. Making lots of herbal iced teas at home. The hardest part is getting active. I think I could enjoy going for a run, jog or walk every day, BUT I can't do that because I happen to live in a really really really BAD neighborhood. Apartment is too small to invest in a treadmill. I'm also bad with exercise videos. I'll do them religiously for a week, then I'll be lucky if I pop them in once a month!any suggestions? 
