I'm currently in Paris, but it wasn't easy getting here. Here's the story.It's Friday, 4 July, three days ago. Tom and I have advanced train tickets for a meetup in London. We rush out the door to the train station, my foot acquiring several more blisters on the way, and... miss the train by thirty seconds. Apparently the trains are notoriously late, but the one time we need them to be, they aren't.Our tickets are non-exchangeable. 60 for a new, single, one-way ticket.I need more cash. I have 50 in my wallet. Tom ran out of money the previous day and is waiting for money to transfer into his account, so I tell him he can borrow some from me. It's an hour before the next train leaves to London, and I have a choice to make: find a Barclay's (bank) and withdraw cash with my Bank of America card for no charge or find a random cash machine (ATM) and potentially pay a large amount in charges.Since we have an hour to kill, I opt for the second option. Sure, we had just spent half an hour running around Sheffield carrying heavy bags with us (I packed for a week), but more running around never killed anyone.We get halfway to the city center (downtown) and still no sign for a Barclay's cash machine. At this point, Tom looks at me, says he doesn't know what to do, and I make a decision to abort the search, suck it up, and pay the extra fee to withdraw cash from another machine. We head back to the train station.I put my card in a random cash machine. Declined.I try again. Declined again.They say a true sign of insanity is when you keep doing the same thing and over and expect a different result.I abandon the cash machine and decide to just buy the tickets directly from an actual human being who's selling them. She swipes my card. Declined.Tom and I walk all the way back to the city center, what we were trying to avoid to begin with, and find a Barclay's. I use their cash machine. Declined. The error message reads something about how my bank will not authorize the transaction.I walk inside the bank, speak with one of the representatives, and he tells me that this is not a problem on their end, and that I need to contact my bank. The suspicion is that the bank saw hundreds of dollars being withdrawn from England, freaked out, and probably put a freeze on my account. Fair enough, I just need to call them to let them know that I am in fact in England, and to give me my money, bitches.I have a pay-as-you-go UK phone, with not that much credit on it. I also have my American phone, which is dead, but that I could charge up, and use to call. I decide to use my American phone. I'll write my mom an e-mail to explain why I made an expensive international call, and hope she understands.We walk all the way back to the train station, look around, find a plug to charge my phone up in. Fifteen minutes later, we're outside, and I'm trying to make the call. Turns out my phone is useless in the UK. It couldn't pick up any networks.I throw my hands up in the air, and use my UK phone.I bypass the message telling me I'll be charged for international rates, even though I'm calling an 800 number, I get through to the bank, I sit through all their automated messages, responding with "yes" "yes" "no" "two" "five" and such monosyllabic replies, and finally, I get a message telling me that I'll get to talk to a real live human being. Please hold while we transfer you.Two seconds later, I hang up the phone. "Oh, you've got to be kidding me."Tom looks at me. "What?""They're closed for the 4th of July."Luckily, we did do something right. While at Barclay's, I exchanged $100 for 46 (ouch) so I have just enough money for a ticket to the London meetup. I need to go to this meetup, because I have a ticket to Paris from London, and to Belfast from Paris, so I can't just skip it, not to mention I organized the entire thing. The bad news is, there is no way for Tom to come with me, so he stays in Sheffield.And there you have it, that's the story of what happened. (Hidden moral: don't miss the train.) So yes, I made it to London, and I also made it to Paris, where I am right now. I am deeply appreciative of the people who have helped me out with train tickets, food, and borrowed cash until I can contact my bank. Really, they didn't even hesitate to buy me a daypass for the London underground, food, drinks, or to even let me borrow 80 to exchange to euros to get through my first couple of days in Paris. Thank you, thank you, thank you, to all the kind people I'm lucky enough to know.It's Monday now, and my bank will be open today. I just need to wait several hours until it's late enough in the states for me to call them and clear the situation up. I still don't know what's wrong, but I'm really hoping all it is is a freeze on it because they think my identity was stolen, and not something more serious.It's really quite humorous if I think about it. Everything that could go wrong did go wrong on Friday. Every "option A or B" decision I made was the wrong one. If I went with A, it didn't work, and I had to go with B anyway. And then finally, finally when it looked like everything was going to be all right, it turns out it's an American holiday.I was about ready to go to the American Embassy for help, see if they would let me call the states, in case I ran out of phone credit in trying to contact the bank (and couldn't buy more credit without access to cash).Turns out they were also closed on the 4th of July.
