Car insurance is required in every state in the United States.  While that requirement isnt necessarily a bad thing, it does mean that if you own a car, you can count on having to pay for auto insurance.  You dont have to pay the highest price out there, though.  There are a [...] Car insurance is required in every state in the United States.  While that requirement isnt necessarily a bad thing, it does mean that if you own a car, you can count on having to pay for auto insurance.  You dont have to pay the highest price out there, though.  There are a few easy actions you can take to keep the lid on your insurance rates.   Raise your deductible.  If you are willing to forego a low deductible amount, such as $100 or $250, and bump your deductible up to $500 or even $1,000 you can significantly cut the cost of your insurance.  Just make sure that the deductible you choose isnt more than you could comfortably pay if disaster strikes. Slow down.  Speeding tickets, along with other moving violations, are the absolute worst things that can happen to your insurance rates.  The pesky little things will stay on your record for at least three years causing your rates to skyrocket.   Shop around for your insurance.  Calling different insurance agents can seem like a hassle, but it often rewards you with a more favorable rate.  Invest a little of your time and see if you can chip away at your premiums. Make sure youre getting all of the discounts that youre eligible for.  Some companies dont offer discounts up willingly, especially if you purchased your insurance over the internet.  Call your agent or your companys customer service center, to find out if there are any other discounts you might be entitled to.  Common discounts that are available includes discounts for having multiple cars on the policy, being a good student, completing a safe driving course, or even having anti-theft devices in the car.   Eliminate unnecessary coverage.  If you have three cars in your family and dont need to rent a car when youre car is in the shop, you can drop rental coverage from your policy.  If your car is rough around the edges, you may opt to drop your comprehensive coverage and carry only the state-required coverage.  Be careful, however, to consider all of the ramifications of dropping comprehensive coverage. Share This ---Related Articles at Not Made Of Money:Florida Homeowner Insurance - Are The Rates Going Down?Paid The Homeowner InsuranceIs Homeowner Insurance An Entitlement?Got Hit With The Hurricane Tax on Our Auto Insurance PolicyWays To Save MoneyFlorida Homeowner Insurance - January Special SessionScore 1 For Florida Homeowners   Nationwide&amp;#8217;s 72% Increase Request Denied65th Festival of Frugality - Some Gems Of WisdomFlorida Homeowner Insurance : Rapidly Rising Rates      
