  A very large phishing campaign is rolling through AppRiver today. Not your run of the mill Bank of America phish either. This one is targeting Digital Insight clients. Digital Insight, who was acquired by Intuit back in 2006 for $1.35 billion is responsible for creating internet banking solutions for mid-market banks and credit unions as well as large corporations. They offer customized portals based on the need of your company. Including functions such as internet banking, online lending, and electronic bill paying. So when you imagine someone giving up their Digital Insight company and log-in information, you should also be able to imagine that this could cause way more damage than giving up an individual account.I have never been signed into a Digital Insight account, however I can imagine that through this account you would be able to access a lot of very important information in regards to the company who owns the account as well as the banking info that this account in turn handles. I could also imagine being able to exploit the software once you have this kind of access, maybe during beta testing, by inserting code to transfer all transactional information? Once again I've never seen all of the info that is contained within one of these log-ins, but considering the size of this campain, and the nature of the business DI handles, I'm assuming it's pretty juicy.As normal, these arrive as emails claiming that your account is about to expire, and provides a link to a fake log-in page where you can give up your account information. The links are reoccuring and noticeable to the keen eye looking for frauds, however, one in particular looked pretty convincing to me, that one was... /accounts.digitallnsight.net/onl... The tricky part lies in the center of the main domain where instead of using the letters "L" and "i", they are using double lower case "L's" digita ll nsight. I can see where this one could fool even some of the most vigilant.AppRiver is currently blocking all phishing attempts to Digital Insight, but always remember, your bank or financial institution will never require that you do business through an email.  
