  T  Minus 2 days  to Grand Opening This week has been individual days of very hard work for all of us.  Yesterday: MadamWu counted and arranged assorted Notions. In between deliveries, calls on the phone from customers wanting to know when were opening, supervising her employees, doing paper work etc (you get the picture) Barbara worked in completing our vintage pattern and costume catalog. Which amounted to color copying two patterns envelops at a time on my old HP 5500 printer for a three note book. The task has taken a week, because MadamWu has been buying costume patterns for months on EBAY.  Heather worked on two things, she has a real handle on what fabric costs and what this market typically gets for it. So MadamWu assigned her a tagging gun and some new tags and a pen; she went around and raised and lowered prices on our designer fabrics in the warehouse show room as well as our Selected Collections in the prime show room.  As for me I did utility work, I took a day a vacation from the day job and put in a full day at the store. I wired and installed the EXIT signs, the three Emergency lights and installed six smoke detectors.  In addition when Charles arrived after his day job, her broke down a much of excess boxes and did a dumpster run.  Finally, Charles and I assembled two 36 industrial pedestal fans needed for air movement in the warehouse showroom. Both assemblies took the better part of 90 minutes. They work great and really move the air.  Finally  MadamWu delegated the task of arranging credit machine training with Bank of America.  For opening day, Barbara and myself will be the cashiers. We both have retail experience and felt it was better for us to focus on that task. The two college girls and Charles will be staffing the cutting tables and getting fabric for customers and writing up sales slips. MadamWu will be HOSTESS of the new store and greet customers supported by Heather.  Today our 2 color vertical Ad, runs in the newspaper, next to the Sewing Column, this is milestone in itself. The paper has never run ads on the CNY column page, ever! We talked them into it.
