LIFT VS. DRAG  A Business Leaders Perspective By Waldo Waldman So, how do you get a 35,000-pound F-16 jet fighter to fly? Its no easy feat. To overcome the force of gravity, you have to create a force greater than gravitys grasp. That force is lift. As the F-16 blasts through the sky, there is an enemy of [...] LIFT VS. DRAG  A Business Leaders Perspective By Waldo Waldman So, how do you get a 35,000-pound F-16 jet fighter to fly? Its no easy feat. To overcome the force of gravity, you have to create a force greater than gravitys grasp. That force is lift. As the F-16 blasts through the sky, there is an enemy of lift that must be overcome.  Its an aerodynamic force which resists the forward motion of the jet (known as drag.) There are two kinds of drag  induced and parasite. Induced drag is a good drag. It is a byproduct of lift and is necessary for flight. Parasite drag is not helpful because it battles against the good drag, working to slow the aircraft down. Its caused by the non-lifting portions of the aircraft, such as the landing gear, missiles, and external fuel tanks. Heres the big picture.  In order to fly, a jets lift must exceed drag. The less drag, the easier the plane flies. Lets look at this on a practical level in fighter combat. When evading missiles or engaging another fighter in close combat, one of the first things you must do is what pilots call jettison your stores. You have to get rid of all the parasite drag hanging from the jet thats not critical to immediate, fast flight. Fuel tanks and bombs, for example, must go. This reduces your weight while simultaneously reducing drag, allowing the fighter to be much more maneuverable to avoid getting shot down. Simply put, if you dont need it, you drop it. What parasites do you have dragging you down and stopping you from reaching new heights in your life? Parasites are the negative relationships that sap you of your energy and time while giving nothing in return. Parasites are also the fears, doubts, mental baggage, dramas, and self-limiting beliefs that strangle your ability to take action. They suck the life out of you. They can drag you down emotionally and hold you back from being a successful leader. Do you have any of that hanging around? We all have parasite drag in our lives.  Were just not aware that we have it or we put off doing anything about it until our own personal missiles begin to fly.  If were dragged down too much, the missiles will hit us. What are you holding on to that you really need to let go of?  Heres my advice.  Jettison your parasites now! Wingmen are the opposite of parasites. They are the relationships in your life who lift you to new heights.  Wingnuts are parasites that drag you down. Are you willing to jettison whats dragging you down so you can become more fulfilled and successful? Perhaps its an unhealthy relationship, laziness, or a private addiction such as TV, gambling, or a sugar fix. Or maybe a bad job is bringing you down or a fear of failure is stopping you from starting a new business. Want to find what gives lift in your life? Look at what drives your passion. Look at the relationships and activities that get you excited and energized and ready to push it up in life. Then, pursue them relentlessly. Seek what gives you life. When flight planning for success, winners have an ability to get rid of distractions and focus on action that leads to positive results. They also surround themselves with people who challenge them. Jim Rohn, one of my favorite philosophers, has a saying that I love, Dont spend major time with minor people. If you want to be a success, spend time with people at work and in your private life who lift you up. Folks who have the courage and compassion to tell it like it is.  These people wont settle for your excuses, but they will inspire you and give you hope. The question remains: How do you attract these types of people into your life? You do it by giving your time, advice, and hope to those in need.  In essence, you become a wingman to others and help them to fly to greater heights. You do the hard work to build your own character before expecting it of others. This is the core of leadership. When you do this, wingmen will naturally be attracted to you. They will feel comfortable coming to you for help and you will slowly but surely find yourself surrounded by people you trust. As I always say, never fly solo. Leadership Wingtip  Leaders push themselves up, while pulling others up. Discipline, hard work, and productive relationships are the lifts in life that overcome the parasite drags of unhealthy relationships, addictions and complacency. They are your tools to conquer mediocrity and live with courage. They will help you to win.  Dont leave them from your flight plan. If you want to reach new heights in business and in life, make sure you do whatever it takes to maximize your lift and minimize your drag. Not only will you avoid the missiles, but youll hit your target as well! Waldo Waldman builds team unity within organizations as a high energy leadership inspirational speaker. A former combat-decorated fighter pilot with corporate sales experience, Waldo brings an exciting and valuable message to organizations by using fighter pilot strategies as building blocks for peak performance, teamwork, leadership, and trust. He has worked with dozens of corporations such as Panasonic, UPS, Hilton, Aflac, Bank of America and Hewlett-Packard. Visit www.yourwingman.com to learn more. 
