Memo From BofAs Lewis: Rough Week for Stock, Good Week for Business Posted by Deal Journal Bank of Americas shares hit an intraday low of $3.19 a share today, a level not seen since August 2, 1984, when the bank traded at $3.17 a share. Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis is having his own difficulties over his banks acquisition of Merrill Lynch. It must be time for some morale building, and to that effect, here is a memo Lewis sent out to his staff today: Rough week for stock, good week for business To my teammates: Public debate on the subject of potentially nationalizing some banks continues to put great pressure on our stock. And yet, our company continues to be profitable. I see no reason why a company that is profitable, with capital and liquidity levels that are very strong, and that continues to lend actively, should be considered for nationalization. Speculation about nationalization is based on a lack of understanding of our banks financial position as well as a lack of appreciation for the adverse ramifications for our customers and the economy. Bank of America does not need any further assistance today, and I am confident we will not need any further assistance in the future. I believe our company has more than enough capital, liquidity and earnings power to make it through this downturn on our own from here on out. There is no question that the recession is continuing to worsen and that rising credit costs will continue to put great pressure on our ability to generate earnings. But heres the good news: Your hard work is producing results in businesses all across the company. While I cant divulge any specific financial results mid-quarter, I can tell you that activity in our trading business continues to be vastly improved over last quarter. The corporate debt markets are showing some signs of thawing in both high yield and high grade, and were already seeing some benefits in the market of our combination with Merrill Lynch, in terms of winning mandates to raise capital for new and existing clients. And Merrill Lynch Financial Advisors posted nearly a half billion dollars in CD sales in the first four weeks these products were available to their clients. On the retail side, our customer satisfaction scores are up at a time when others are down. Our brand, which took a beating in January, strengthened in early February, as customers gave us high marks for trustworthiness and perception that money is safe with us. In the first week of February, our Go America, Save! promotion boosted CD sales 18% and IRA sales 10% over the prior week. We extended our industry record this week for number of active mobile banking customers, surpassing the 2 million mark. And this week, a consortium of banks, including Bank of America, launched the Help With My Credit campaign to raise awareness of the different ways credit card issuers can assist customers in managing their financial obligations. I am really encouraged by what were seeing in our home lending business. The mortgage boom is so intense we actually pulled down some advertising for a brief period to give our teams a chance to catch up to the volume, but they are running at full tilt now and processing record volumes. Our decision to acquire Countrywide has put us in a great position to capitalize on the surge in this business. This is a very positive story as we lead up to the launch of our new Bank of America Home Loans brand in April. Yesterday, I met with a group of about a hundred of our top leaders to discuss whats going on in the businesses and listen to their thoughts and concerns. We talked about the great challenges were all facing in the marketplace. But we also talked about how encouraging it is to work with such strong teammates, to have the trust and support of our customers and clients, and to have the position in our markets that we do. As we concluded the meeting, I told them that we have a clear challenge in front of us: to prove the cynics and the critics wrong. I know we can do that  in fact, I think were doing it now, in the work each of you is doing every day, and the business results youre putting up on the board. Thank you for that. Lets keep the momentum going. Ken http://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2009/02/20/a-memo-from-bofas-lewis-rough-week-for-stock-good-week-for-business/
