Firms Getting Aid Face $500,000 Cap On Top Execs' Pay BY JED GRAHAM Posted 2/4/2009 President Obama used his bully pulpit on Wednesday to place a partly symbolic $500,000 cap on pay for top executives of banks requiring new government capital. The move is seen as necessary to shore up support in Congress for an escalating financial rescue. Most firms could choose to ignore it, though they would have to give shareholders a nonbinding vote. The Treasury guidelines also allow unlimited awards of restricted stock or comparable long-term incentives, but may prohibit executives from cashing out until after the government is repaid. The only firms that wouldn't be able to waive the $500,000 cap (excluding stock grants) are those requiring "exceptional" assistance, along the lines of that provided to Citigroup (C) and Bank of America (BAC) in recent months. The Citi deal, for example, gave the government a veto on exec pay. Revamped Bank Rescue Looms Next week the Obama administration plans to unveil a more comprehensive financial rescue plan. The government package is expected to include the purchase of distressed securities, insurance for most of the remaining toxic assets, and further capital injections. The Treasury said the executive pay limits would apply to future "capital access" programs, which would certainly include capital injections. It's not clear if they would apply to asset buys or insurance. But the government gave Citi the equivalent of capital and got $7 billion in preferred shares in exchange for limiting Citi's losses on $306 billion in assets. On Wednesday, Obama kept up his criticism of Wall Street compensation. Public frustration boiled over after news surfaced that Merrill Lynch signed off on $4 billion in bonuses just ahead of its year-end merger with BofA. "We're going to be demanding some restraint in exchange for federal aid  so that when firms seek new federal dollars, we won't find them up to the same old tricks," he said. Jaret Seiberg, financial services analyst at Stanford Group, said the banking industry understands "if you need to go to the government a second time for assistance that there are consequences." But Seiberg sees the pay curbs as a reason not to nationalize banks. Top talent could move to less regulated financial firms, he said. "We are in a period where populism is gaining strength every day," Seiberg said. Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas Research Partners, said the pay restrictions are part of an effort to "grease the skids" for Congress to go along with a broader financial rescue. It's unclear if the administration will seek more funds or try to leverage the remaining $350 billion. But Clifton said "the climate is not there" for Congress to OK more. Gov't Aid Less Attractive Goldman Sachs said Wednesday it is looking to repay the $10 billion it borrowed from the government. "We would like to get out from under that," CFO David Viniar told an investment conference. Brian Sullivan, head of executive search firm CTPartners, said the ability of firms to offer unlimited stock and waive the pay cap might enable them to provide attractive-enough pay despite the rules. But he sees the cap as "an unnecessary, unfortunate distraction." Firms that are healthy enough to survive on their own wouldn't seek government aid unless the Treasury was offering subsidies they can't turn down, he said. Many GOP lawmakers who opposed the bailout like the pay limits for just this reason. Wall Street has already reined in pay to some degree. Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan (JPM), earned $1 million last year, far below his pay in prior years. Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., has called for a $400,000 hard cap on exec pay. That is Obama's salary. The pay curbs tied to financial rescues won't be the last word. Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., wants to limit the tax deductibility of executive pay beyond a certain level. Treasury also floated an idea to require bank execs to hold stock for several years before they cash out.
