Wells Fargo Mum On Cause Of Greater Loss Posted by Bob O'Brien ANALYSTS SPECULATE ON WHATS BEHIND INCREASE IN 4Q LOSSES Thank goodness those banks have gotten religion on the issue of transparency, eh? As Wells Fargo (WFC) has shown us, banks talk to shareholders the way mobsters used to talk to prosecutors. Its bankers practicing omerta - the old custom of absolute silence. Wells Fargo issued a press release late Thursday revealing that its fourth-quarter loss actually widened since it released its numbers. Instead of the $2.55 billion, 79 cents-a-share loss it previously recorded, its loss in the period actually came in at $2.7 billion, or 84 cents a share. Which is worse. The bank blamed the wider loss on what it described as a credit event. And then presumptively stopped describing. A spokesperson for the bank said it would not comment beyond the release. Analysts questioned by various media sources suggested that another bank in which Wells invests likely carried some impaired assets that were downgraded by a ratings agency, prompting that bank to record a loss on something previously unrealized. The broader implications of Wells recalcitrance is that it would suggest that the bank is never going to give anything in the way of guidance. About its operations. About its strategies. About what it had for lunch. And this isnt any old banking story, not by a long shot. Wells Fargo posted one of the better performances in the banking sector until its fourth-quarter loss. Instead of the serial losses that its rivals put up, the loss in that quarter represented its first since 2001. Keep in mind, of course, Wells rolled up the former Wachovia operations at the close of last year. Hows the integration going? How bad are the losses at its acquisition? Is there any reason to suspect there are the kind of risks that startled Bank of America (BAC) before the government forced it to close on Merrill Lynch? Chances are, we wont know, at least not before Wells has to make its required disclosures. Guidance is for sissies. The bigger risk is that investors are never going to get a heads up on Wells balance sheet plans. Theres been a lot of speculation that it will have to cut its 34-cent dividend, something that obviously would greatly alter its investment-worthiness for some investors. Theres little chance those investors will get anything but blind-sided if and when such an announcement is forthcoming.
