Bank of America CEO Says Results Are Encouraging http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601103&amp;sid=a7BcZjewSzMA&amp;refer=news Feb. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of America Corp. Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Lewis told employees that his management team and strategy have the boards support and January results were encouraging as turmoil in the credit markets eased. The board unanimously endorsed our business model, strategic direction and the team, Lewis said in a Feb. 2 memo to employees that was confirmed by Scott Silvestri, a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank. The burden of execution and accountability, as always, rests squarely on our shoulders to vindicate their confidence in us. Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, lost $1.8 billion in the fourth quarter, its first deficit since 1991, because of writedowns of securities backed by mortgages and increasing defaults on loans to consumers and businesses. Investors have pressed the board to replace Lewis, the CEO since 2001, after his acquisitions of Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. At least for the moment, the extreme dislocations in the capital markets we suffered last quarter seem to have moderated, Lewis said. Credit costs continue to be a big issue, as we expected. The bank plans to trim $7 billion in annual expenses through the Merrill Lynch merger and has announced plans to cut up to 35,000 employees over the next three years. The bank had 243,075 employees at the end of 2008. Taking Hits We also made cuts on a highly progressive basis, meaning that higher-ranking managers with larger incentive targets took progressively larger hits in relations to more junior associates, Lewis said in the memo. Lewis and executives reporting directly to him wont get bonuses this year, he said. Most of Merrills senior executives have left since the Jan. 1 acquisition, including CEO John Thain, Greg Fleming, head of investment banking, and Robert McCann, who led the wealth- management unit. Bank of Americas board added three former Merrill directors, expanding to 19 members. Bank of America fell 60 cents, or 11.3 percent, to $4.70 as of 4:07 p.m. New York time in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier today, it hit $4.62, its lowest since October 1990. It has plummeted 67 percent this year. To contact the reporter on this story: David Mildenberg in Charlotte at dmildenberg@bloomberg.net
