Late payments on commercial mortgage-backed securities to skyrocket: Fitch By Matthew Quinn - February 17, 2009 4:31 PM ET Delinquencies on commercial mortgage-backed securities could roughly triple this year from the end of 2008, according to new reports from Fitch Ratings and Standard &amp; Poors. Defaults on three large 2007 vintage loans led the CMBS loan delinquency rate to rise 27 basis points from December, bringing it to 1.15% in January, according to Fitch. Among the January delinquencies was a $225 million loan secured by the Riverton Apartments, the $175 million Resorts Atlantic City loan, and a $130.5 million multi-family unit loan. Whats different about these defaults is that they were driven more by the sinking economy than illiquid capital markets, Fitch said. The larger two of the loans defaulted as the souring economy hampered the borrowers plans to reposition the properties to earn higher budgeted cash flows. The $130 million loan suffered due to tenants falling behind on payments. Though capital market illiquidity remains problematic, the recent defaults underscore a shift in which the deepening recession has impacted real estate fundamentals such that term risk outweighs balloon risk as an immediate concern, said Susan Merrick, head of the U.S. CMBS group at Fitch, in a press release. Fitch said it expects defaults on larger loans to push up loan delinquencies to approximately 3% by year-end. Securities originated in 2006 and 2007 are likely to be the largest contributors to delinquencies because of large underlying loans. In a separate report, S&amp;P said CMBS delinquencies reached 1.1% during the fourth quarter of 2008 and that delinquencies could reach 3.5% this year. CMBS delinquencies have now risen six consecutive quarters from a low of 0.27% at the end of March 2007. S&amp;P expects the lodging and retail industries to see the biggest jump up in delinquenciesdue in large part to the heavy reliance in those sectors on consumer spending. At the end of 2008, $6.86 billion in CMBS were delinquent, 72% higher than the previous peak of $3.98 billion in December 2003, according to S&amp;P. Climbing delinquencies on CMBS holdings are a threat to banks already fragile capital structures. Bank of America, for instance, had $17.3 billion worth of investments linked to commercial real estate, Joe Price, its CFO, said in a conference call with investors and analysts last month. Some 56% of those holdings were acquired when B of A completed its acquisition of Merrill Lynch on Jan. 1. George.
