  Credit and Liquidity Programs and the Balance Sheet     Overview  Crisis response   Fed's balance sheet   Federal Reserve liabilities   Recent balance sheet trends      Open market operations   Central bank liquidity swaps   Lending to depository institutions   Lending to primary dealers   Other lending facilities   Support for specific institutions      Collateral and rate setting   Risk management   Longer-term issues   Reports and other resources       Crisis response  provides information about the Federal Reserve's strategy since the beginning of the financial crisis.     Federal Reserve's balance sheet  discusses the Board's weekly H.4.1 statistical release, "Factors Affecting Reserve Balances of Depository Institutions and Condition Statement of Federal Reserve Banks," which contains the Federal Reserve's balance sheet and related information.     Federal Reserve liabilities  discusses the key liabilities on the Federal Reserve's balance sheet, including currency and reserve balances.     Recent balance sheet trends  provides a graphical depiction of selected assets and liabilities of the Federal Reserve.     Open market operations  discusses this traditional policy tool, including its evolution during the financial crisis.     Central bank liquidity swaps  discusses the use of reciprocal currency arrangements with other central banks, in response to the global nature of the financial crisis.     Lending to depository institutions  discusses the primary, secondary, and seasonal credit facilities as well as the Term Auction Facility.     Lending to primary dealers  discusses the Primary Dealer Credit Facility and securities lending programs.     Other lending facilities  presents information about the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, the Commercial Paper Funding Facility, the Money Market Investor Funding Facility, and the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility.     Support forspecific institutions  discusses the special lending arrangements with Bear Stearns and the American International Group; it also discusses the support arrangements put in place for Citigroup and Bank of America.     Collateral and rate setting  provides details on eligible collateral for a number of lending facilities and a summary of the terms and conditions of the Federal Reserve's lending facilities.     Risk management  explains how the Federal Reserve manages the risk associated with various liquidity programs, and provides details on the rapid expansion of its balance sheet.     Longer-term issues  discusses some of the challenges the Federal Reserve will likely face in the future as the financial crisis evolves.     Reports and other resources  provides links to Federal Reserve reports to the Congress and related items.     
