Australia and South Africa have both admitted that the hosts will have a surge in confidence after a 2-0 sweep of the Twenty20 international series.  The Proteas managed their first ever Test series victory on Aussie soil last month but lost the final Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground as well as the two T20 matches.  Michael Hussey, who scored a match-wining unbeaten half-ton in Brisbane, hopes that Australia's recent change in fortune will continue when the one-day series against South Africa gets going at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Friday.  'I think it's a good start, I think it's given a lot of guys a lot of belief that we can beat this South African team,' he said.  'We've got to go in with some confidence on Friday.  'But again on Friday we start nil-all and we start punching each other again. I think it's good to have a couple of wins under our belt and to give us that confidence, but I don't think it makes us favourites or not favourites,' he added.  South African skipper Johan Botha admitted that his side's morale took a blow following the run of losses but was confident that the Proteas have what it takes to compete against the Aussies.  'I think tonight showed us we can compete with Australia and we'll have to keep finding a way to do it, because we've lost all the momentum now and we will be under pressure in the one-day series,' Botha said.  Hussey was quick to warn his teammates not to become complacent ahead of Friday's first ODI.  'They are still a very professional outfit,' he added.  'They're still very disciplined with the way they go about their bowling and fielding. They're an outstanding team and we're going to have to play very well to beat them in the Commonwealth Bank series.'  AB de Villiers suffered a hip injury after being struck on the hip by a fast delivery from Shaun Tait on Sunday and the batsman had to sit out of Tuesday's game.  Botha is hoping that de Villiers will recover in time for Friday's clash.  'Now, with Graeme (Smith) gone, he is definitely our best one-day player, so we'll definitely need him in the one-day series,' he said.  Hussey, who was handed a lifeline after Proteas wicketkeeper Mark Boucher missed a stumping, was rather content with his steady knock of 53 after underperforming in the Test arena.  'It was great, I really enjoyed it in excellent conditions for cricket,' he said.  'It's always a pretty good pitch up here (in Brisbane). I enjoyed winning the game for Australia, That was the most important thing.'  'In this great game it doesn't always go your way, so unfortunately so far in the summer it hasn't really gone my way.  'But I had a couple of things go my way tonight so I was able to go on and get a decent score,' he added.  
