8. Romania  Romanias banks are barely exposed to international lenders. Therefore, any economic slowdown it feels will be a secondary result of global patterns. No shocks have occurred in the country itself.  Known by its own journalists the tiger of the east, Romanias economy has been growing rapidly for the past few years. Though heavily embroiled in the EUs economy, especially Italys, Romania is one of the worlds biggest military equipment exporters.  Bad News: High exposure to the EU and foreign direct investment subject Romania to the general effects of the coming global recession.  Good News: The country remains a hot FDI destination for European companies looking for a good deal. Its strong IT services sectorlike a mini-India for the EUis especially attractive. And then theres that military thing, a sure winner in todays conflict-rich world society.  7. Thailand  AIGs gigantic Thailand subsidiary, AIA Thailand, has more than half of the Thai market cornered. Its also sitting on 286.67 billion baht worth of reserves (about 8.3 billion US dollars), 383 billion baht ($11.1 billion) worth of assets, and capital funds worth roughly 1100% of the legally required minimum.  Foreigners affected directly by the US financial crisis may have outstanding loans in Thailand. The country, however, isnt worried, because the amount of these loans is relatively small.  Bad news: Thailands largest insurance company is an AIG subsidiary.  Good news: Its sitting on a pile of cash.  6. North Korea  Although the country has recently enjoyed burgeoning trade ties with South Korea and China, both vulnerable to the US financial crisis, North Korea remains isolated enough to limp through the financial crisis relatively unscathed.  Bad News: No stranger to famines and subsistence farming, people living in this brittle Communist relic may lose hope as foreign direct investors from affected countries stall capital inflows.  Good News: North Koreas economic isolation will, for once, come in handy.
