Exclusive AIG near deal on new terms of bailout American Insurance Group, another dinosaur that is too big to fail, a company that managed to lose $60 billion dollars in the last quarter of 2008, a company on what is now its second bailout, whose shares are trading at 42 cents a share, is currently preparing for a third bailout this weekend. Insurance companies invest premium money then sell the underlying asset while keeping the capital gains. The asset is sold to pay for claims. AIG bought too many toxic asset and this has impaired its profits from its more solid operations. Because is international and simply all over the place, meaning that it can drag many other entities down if it fails, Uncle Sam is now putting up with it the way you do with an unwanted relative.  The revised AIG agreement is expected to include an additional equity commitment of about $30 billion, more lenient terms on an existing preferred investment, and a lower interest rate on a $60 billion government credit line, the source said. I see the word preferred" here, a reference to preferred stock. It sounds to me like AIG, just like Citibank shareholders, doesnt want to give it up. They want more money and a delay on relinquishing control. Why? They have profitable divisions within their organization. If the government takes over completely, which it might as well do, after all, they own 70% of the stock, they could simply liquidate it in bankruptcy and sell off the parts of the business that AIG wants to keep. The fact is that when a company is completely gutted out, they are usually left with their old furniture. These large companies have more than that, but they dont want to let it go. Their demise is obvious:  The London Interbank Offered Rate floor on the interest rate AIG pays on the government's credit line is expected to be removed under the new terms, which would save the insurer about $1 billion a year, the source said. The company currently pays 3 percentage points above Lib. That can hardly be called interest. Its cheap money, and now they cant seem to be able to pay that either. In return, we get the following assets:  AIG will also give the U.S. Federal Reserve ownership interests in American Life Insurance (Alico), which generates more than half of its revenue from Japan, and Hong Kong-based life insurance group American International Assurance Co (AIA) in return for reducing its debt, the source said.  As we all know, insurance is about collecting premiums and paying a few claims. If they look risky, customers are dumped. Here is AIG, again, attempting to retain control of choice parts:  AIG may also securitize some U.S. life insurance policies and give them to the government to further reduce its debt, the source said. Securitization, get it? You get the bond, not the company. If everything goes well, which in this case means that they find a buyer, you get paid off and they keep the profits. Maybe not, but they will most likely, if there is any more left, give the governmentwhat else?more stock! Heres the garbage they were planning to sell to payback the bailout money:  AIG is expected to post a roughly $60 billion fourth-quarter loss on Monday, produced in large part by write-downs on certain tax assets and commercial mortgage backed securities, the source said. The loss -- which works out to about $460,000 per minute -- is mostly non-cash, the source said. Basically, when you screw up, make sure you do so royally. Moreover, I wonder what kind of credit rating this company thinks it has. It says here that the revised bailout would allow the insurer to avoid a credit ratings downgrade that could have had serious ramifications on the insurer's liquidity and hurt its businesses.  Really? You are being bailed out; the government owns most of your company; you are shooting for a third loan, and you cant even pay cheap interest on what you borrowed already. Exactly what is your credit rating? We know its junk, but we dont know the actual rating. Does Standard and Poor have a -z rating? Can someone be rated 0. Is that possible? Insurance is viewed as a safety net in an uncertain world. AIG has certainly failed to live up to this ideal. Instead of a net, its more like a sock chopped off at the toes:  AIG, which counted 74 million customers at the end of 2007, has said it has also been losing business and finding it harder to win new clients since it was first rescued in September after bad mortgage bets left it on the verge of collapse. I guess its game over. The whole idea of being in the insurance business is to sit there and collect premiums. Anyone starts to put in claims, you raise their premiums and then dump them. Their customers seem to be running for the exit and they are the ones at a disadvantage in the insurance game. As for who insures the insurance company, I guess the following welfare checks reveal the answer:  The government stepped in at the time with an $85 billion bailout and subsequently offered additional financing, bringing the support up to $123 billion. Then in November, the government had to revise its bailout package, raising its aid further, to about $150 billion  No single welfare recipient could bring forth enough children into this world to get a welfare check this big.
