Louisiana, Miss. among highest homeowner ratesal.com, ALBy ALAN SAYRE AP NEW ORLEANS (AP)  Louisiana homeowners paid the third-highest home insurance rates in 2006, while Mississippi was hit with the sixth-highest average bill for coverage, according to a report by a national group of state insurance ... in Insurance News &gt;North Shore Economic Development Alliance Names PresidentKIVI-TV, ID... on creating a branding plan and campaign that will enhance regional visibility, and create economic opportunities across the region in the areas of bio and life science, creative economy, green industry, health care, manufacturing and tourism. ... in Insurance News &gt;Black Monday 2.0: Just how bad was it?KIVI-TV, IDThe Fed and the New York Fed plan to take up to a $26 billion preferred interest in two AIG life insurance subsidiaries -- American Life Insurance and American International Assurance -- as well as make $8.5 billion in new loans to benefit the domestic ... in Insurance News &gt;Line of Scrimmage: Seahawks Go Back to WR WellCBS 47, CAEqualing or improving  upon those numbers, of course, will be largely contingent on Houshmandzadeh's health, already an issue after he revealed to Dan Patrick that he'd undergo an MRI. The Seahawks are likely interested in the condition of ... in Insurance News &gt;Headed to Mexico? Ensure a safe vacation with these tipsABC15.com (KNXV-TV), AZIf traveling by vehicle, buy Mexico auto insurance. US auto insurance is not valid in Mexico, even though some companies extend their  coverage a certain number of miles from the border, Mexican officials will not recognize this. If a collision occurs, ... in Insurance News &gt;BMO earns $225 million in Q1, sees 'once-in-a-decade growth ...KBS Radio, CanadaBMO made a $375-million acquisition in Canada during the first quarter, taking over the Canadian life insurance business of troubled American International Group, or AIG, which earlier this week reported the biggest quarterly loss in US history. ... in Insurance News &gt;Two city council members want pet chipping chunkedSan Marcos Daily Record, TXWeve gotten so much feedback from the citizens, and also feedback from other organizations, health organizations, Jones said. It hasnt just been one group complaining. In their request that the item be placed on tonights agenda,  ... in Insurance News &gt;Aon: AIG insurance unit showed 'clear deterioration'Chicago Daily Herald, ILAon Corp., the world's biggest broker, told clients that insurance operations at American International Group Inc. showed "clear deterioration" in the last three months of 2008. "Given the results of the fourth quarter, we're all, I think, ... in Insurance News &gt;Please help Greenpeace fight against the destruction of whales.  Click here for more information &gt;
