Manage risk to counter market stresses: MAS By GENEVIEVE CUA  ACTIVE risk management enables financial institutions to take pre-emptive measures to counter market stresses, says Monetary Authority of Singapore deputy managing director Teo Swee Lian. Ms Teo: Insurers should beef up their solvency position early before it becomes difficult to raise funds For example, insurers should take measures to strengthen their solvency positions early before financial markets become less forgiving and it becomes difficult to raise funds, she says. To a large extent, the backdrop today reflects a dearth of funding, thanks to the severe credit crisis. Just this week, American Home Assurance, the general insurance arm of AIG in Singapore, said it has raised its capital adequacy ratio to more than 200 per cent from 150 per cent by strengthening its balance sheet. This was done by beefing up cash holdings and aims to instil confidence among policyholders. Speaking at the Life Insurance Association annual luncheon yesterday, Ms Teo said insurers here have so far been prudent in managing their businesses.  &#8216;They have so far remained well capitalised, with capital adequacy ratios safely above the minimum regulatory requirement,&#8217; she said. &#8216;However, it is essential that insurers continue to remain vigilant in monitoring both their solvency margins and operations because the markets are still fraught with uncertainty.&#8217; Insurers, she said, should manage their asset-liability mismatches so they can be less vulnerable to adverse market movements. Insurers typically have long-tail liabilities, but a persistent challenge has been the supply and liquidity of long-dated fixed-income instruments.  &#8216;However, there are also opportunities for life insurers to seek innovative but safe solutions to hedge their long-term liabilities in other ways.&#8217; One method of risk management is stress testing. Ms Teo said the exercise should not just be based on historical scenarios, but should also be cognisant of &#8217;so-called black swan events&#8217;. &#8216;A financial institution should also think of what events, however unlikely, could cause it to crash,&#8217; she said. &#8216;By reverse engineering and understanding the nature and causes of such scenarios, the financial institution could think through measures that can be taken to mitigate or protect itself from these risks.&#8217; Life insurers are required to conduct annual stress tests to assess how resilient they are to market falls. &#8216;Insurers should not just rely on these scenarios but also ponder scenarios that could be specific to but potentially devastating for their business profiles,&#8217; said Ms Teo. &#8216;They should consider doing stress-to-failure tests so they are aware of the combination of stress conditions that could lead to insolvency.&#8217; But insurers should not get obsessed with numbers generated by stress testing, she said. The objective is to understand the dynamic relationships between different scenarios and the financial health of the institution. Insurers, which typically manage large portfolios, should also monitor their investment strategies, according to Ms Teo. While there is currently a flight to safe assets, what is safe today may not be so in the future. Public debt, for instance, is set to expand. &#8216;For some countries, this may mean large supply shocks to hitherto stable government securities markets,&#8217; she said. Yet another risk is fraud. For insurers, this can take the form of exaggerated claims, fabricated claims or intentional misrepresentation of material information. Ms Teo said institutions should constantly review their controls and measures to prevent fraud, which is one of the hardest risks to detect and prevent. Source : Business Times - 6 Mar 2009 Singapore Property - Buy, Sell, Rent, Invest Mindy Yong (+65)91002985 mindy@mindyyong.com
