 The English media are debating just how many of Manchester United's players will be rested before the Barclays Premier League champions travel to play Arsenal in an early kick-off on Saturday.  One observer, however, sees it much differently. Darren Fletcher is anticipating a Group E match tonight that will be competitive and tough. He believes the Celtic players have conspired to create the impression that United cannot be beaten. The Scot in exile at Manchester United is suspicious of the unusual sounds emanating from his proud countrymen. advertisement 'You have to take it with a pinch of salt,' the United midfielder said yesterday of the noises coming out of Parkhead testifying to the greatness of the European champions. 'I know some of the Scottish players in the Celtic team, and they feel on their day they can beat anyone. I am sure Celtic will be building us up to be a great team, which we can be, but Celtic's record in the Champions League at home is great. We are going to see a totally different game from the one at Old Trafford.' The mood in Scotland since United's 3-0 defeat of Celtic has been one of weary acceptance of the gulf between the sides. But Fletcher has travelled on national duty with such as Scott Brown, Paul Hartley, Shaun Maloney, Stephen McManus and Gary Caldwell. 'I have been in a side with some of these players. We went to France and won and we won at home again against France,' he said. 'There is plenty of self-belief and confidence there. They will fancy their chances.' Fletcher insisted the Celtic players were playing it smart: 'They are obviously not going to go to the press and say, We are just as good as United'. They are building us up and they want to take a scalp.' However, the prospect of a packed, raucous Celtic Park did not seem to disturb Fletcher, a Celtic fan. 'We have been in great atmospheres before,' he said. 'I am sure Celtic's will be a great atmosphere and it is one that we will have to control. We will quieten the opposition crowd by keeping the ball. I know it will take a lot more than it usually does to quieten the crowd at Celtic because they are so passionate, but it is something we have learned to deal with in the past.' He conceded that Celtic had proved that they could beat United by winning in 2006 but there was an impression made by both player and Sir Alex Ferguson, the manager, that this is a different United team.  Fletcher, too, will be a different player to the ineffective performer of late in a Scotland jersey. The 24-year-old has found it difficult to be the playmaker in the centre of the national team but has thrived on a less glamorous role at Old Trafford. Fletcher's remit in a club jersey is to close down opponents swiftly and pass quickly and without fuss to Cristiano Ronaldo or Wayne Rooney wide, or to Dimitar Berbatov in a central position. Fletcher has added the threat of goals to this industry in the engine room.  His athletic, disciplined performances are ideal for a United side that has no shortage of genius in forward positions. Fletcher has still to adjust to the demands of a Scotland set-up that craves the 'killer' pass or the inspirational interjection. This has produced criticism from supporters of the national team but Fletcher is not a man or a player to be shoved off course by emotional responses or cloying sentiment.  He was, correctly, professional on his feelings about a return to his homeland. 'It's great to come back to Scotland. But at the end of the day I am here to represent Manchester United and it is no different from any other European game,' he said. 'We will be looking to win.'
