The Carolina Panthers are trying to convince everyone that it isnt a lock for the playoffs.  PHOTO/CURTIS WILSON  Carolinas DeAngelo Williams (left) and Jonathan Stewart became the first teammates to run for over 100 yards and average 7 yards a carry in an NFL game.  A 38-23 victory over Tampa Bay Monday night at Bank of America Stadium, showcased the downhill running duo of DeAngelo Williams and Jonathan Stewart, who pounded the Buccaneers defense. Williams ran for a career high 186 yards rushing and two touchdowns, while Stewart added 115 yards rushing and two scores.  It was the first time in the NFLs 88-year history that teammates averaged more than seven yards a carry and rushed for 100 yards each in the same game.  Every game from now on sets the tempo for getting into the playoffs, Williams said. We have to make our ultimate goal of getting a playoff berth, but I have the feeling we wont be flying under the radar anymore.  As it stands, Carolina would be the second seed behind the New York Giants, while Tampa Bay holds a wild card spot. Still, after watching Williams and Stewart rack up 299 of Carolinas 464 yards on offense, head coach John Fox hoped his players wont get caught up in playoff talk.  Those two backs are pretty special. We will enjoy this one and wont look past Denver, he said. People remember what you do in December. This was a big stage for us, I just hope our players dont drink that Kool-aid.  Wide receiver Steve Smith, who had nine receptions for 117 yards and a score, is certain the Panthers are going to stay grounded by not getting ahead of Foxs one-game-at-a-time mantra.  Because the playoffs arent here. They dont start tomorrow, and we dont focus on that. Besides yall will be talking about somebody else tomorrow, Smith said. You would always like to be in control, but the fact is nobody is really in control of anything now.  Smith isnt concerned about younger players experiencing their first playoff buzz.  You want the young guys to feel it out, you want them not to know what is going on, he said.  Defensive end Julius Peppers, who leads Carolina with 12.5 sacks, downplayed looking ahead.  We have to be concerned with winning the next game, and not worrying about what is down the road with the playoffs, he said. I wouldnt call (Tampa Bay) a statement game, but we played well at the right time. That game was about refocusing.  
