SOME athletes require complete freedom to achieve their objectives. Time to train, to recover, to focus and compete. Kerryn McCann, who won the women's marathon at the 2002 and 2006 Commonwealth Games, never had the luxury. When she listed her occupation in the team sheet, one word, 'Mum', said a lot about the myriad pressures she faced to succeed.   At that stage of her life McCann had two children, Benton and Josie. At least she wasn't breastfeeding. When McCann competed in the Athens Olympic Games in 2004 Josie was still feeding vigorously from what her mother could provide despite a training load of more than 200 kilometres a week.   In Melbourne McCann did not just compete. She stole the show. Known throughout her life and her running career as shy and unassuming, she won one of the great Commonwealth Games races before a roaring crowd of 76,000 people at the MCG.   McCann was 38, her rival, the Kenyan Hellen Cherono Koskei, 22, and running her first big championship. They had battled closely throughout the marathon, a duel that grew in intensity as the finish drew nearer. The lead changed five times in the last kilometre. Approaching the MCG, the Kenyan went to the front again and McCann resorted to prayer, unsure she would be able to hold on. The pair entered the darkness of the tunnel leading into the stadium with Koskei leading. When they emerged into the light, with 300 metres to run, McCann was in front. In the stadium the lead changed again. And again.   Finally McCann, her calves cramping, found her stride again, channelling the roar of the crowd. 'That incredible roar. It really lifted me and just carried me home. This is definitely the peak of my career, and I can't ever imagine doing anything better than this.' But she was soon the encounter a bigger challenge, one that ultimately proved beyond her powers of perseverance and recovery. Kerryn McCann died yesterday, from cancer. She was 41. After the Melbourne Games she was pregnant for a third time when she noticed a small lump in her breast. After some months she finally told her doctor, thinking it was a blocked milk duct. From that point on her pregnancy had to be balanced with the need for urgent treatment.   She had surgery while pregnant and, after 34 weeks, doctors induced labour. Her baby, Cooper, was premature but healthy when born in September last year - six weeks early so her mother could begin her first course of chemotherapy.   The treatment continued for five months and, in May this year, McCann threw away the wig she had used to disguise her baldness and returned to running, if only a 30-minute jog every couple of days.   But the cancer returned, in her liver. She tried to contact her friend Jane McGrath, another breast cancer sufferer and the wife of the cricketer Glenn. Receiving no reply, she heard next day that Jane had died.   Her illness worsened and her family recently decided to stop treatment because she had become too weak. Yet she was more worried about her children than herself.   Born to John Hindmarsh and his wife, Judy, and raised at Bulli, Kerryn never strayed far from home, except to train or compete. She attended Bulli High, worked briefly in Thirroul for the Commonwealth Bank and lived with her husband Greg, a coalminer and former Australian surfing champion, in Coledale.   The focal point of so much that was positive in McCann's life, Coledale was also where her brother Darren was killed in 1993, run over by a drunk driver, a loss that motivated her throughout her running career.   She began to run as a child, joining Kembla Joggers aged 10. A former Bulli High principal, Darryl Sharp, who encouraged her to run, said she was always shy, quiet and never asked for anything. Rising to Olympian heights - she also ran in Atlanta in 1996 and Sydney in 2000 - did not change her.   One of her last wishes was for a better understanding of why women develop breast cancer. 'I can't understand why someone like me would get it,' she said. 'I'm so fit and healthy. I exercise. I don't drink or smoke and there's no family history.' Kerryn McCann is survived by her husband Greg, children Benton, Josie and Cooper, and her parents, John and Judy.   Andrew Stevenson 
