4:29  3Q 30-24  UNC:  Every other player came to play a football game.  Hakeem Nicks showed up to put on a clinic.  After literally catching a ball behind his back he proceeds to catch an overthrown ball!  If he changes water into wine, I'm leaving.  TJ Yates stretches for a touchdown.  A big momentum shift back to the Tarheels.  9:00  3Q  24-21 WVU:  The Tarheels finally get pressure on White with a corner blitz by Da'Norris Searcy.  White completes a huge third and 14 for a first down.  The Mountaineers again get stuffed in the red zone and have to settle for a field goal.  This will be a big momentum swing for the HEELS if they can march back down and get points.  13:20  3Q  23-21  UNC:  West Virginia comes out with a no-huddle offense.  They do this to keep UNC out of running complex blitzes.  The Tarheels are forced into running a  base defense.  Halftime  23-21  UNC:  For most of the first half it looked like the scoring records for both schools had no chance of standing.  Neither team was going to make a mistake.  Pat White for the most part was determined to keep pace with Hakeem Nicks.  White did a great job of running and passing for big third down conversions.  The play of the game for the first half would have to be Deunta Williams pick in the end zone, preventing the Mountaineers from, at worse, taking the lead with a field goal.  The half time adjustments for North Carolina have to include figuring out a way to put pressure on Pat White.  Rushing with a four man front has yet to get White out of a rhythm.  Offensively, the Tarheels have to continue running the football to set up play action pass.  Expect West Virginia to slide a safety towards Nicks and let the other receivers beat you.  Their defense in the first half has been shaky at best.  0:59  2Q  23-21 UNC:  WVU has the ball in the red zone (inside the 20).  This is where smaller teams that run a 'spread' offense tend to struggle against bigger defenses.  Deunta Williams picks off a pass in the End zone.  Carolina's defense has been great all year at the big turnover.  2:30  2Q  23-21 UNC:  After trading punts,  WVU is starting to mount a drive by utilizing a no-huddle offense.  The HEELS are starting to get winded on the Defensive front.  They have chosen to play a soft zone in the secondary and hope that Pat White will make a mistake with the ball.  He hasn't yet.  10:37  2Q  23-21 UNC:  West Virginia apparently thinks they can check Hakeem Nicks with one defensive back.  That's just dumb!  25 yard touchdown pass to NICKS breaks all sorts of records at UNC.  He has 181 yards on three catches and it's not even close to halftime yet.  I'm sure Pat White has something to say about this.  13:23  2Q  21-16 WVU:  Thanks to a big kickoff return by Greg Little to the 50 yard line, the HEELS go for it on fourth down from the 1 and don't get in.  On the very next play the WVU running back is stuffed in the end zone for the safety!  This is a big moment om shift for the Tarheels.  2:35  1Q  21-14 WVU:  This is becoming one for the ages!  Pat White marches his team back down field with some big runs and a huge touchdown pass for 35 yards.  This has been an unbelievable first quarter.  The bathrooms in the press box have yet to been used.  4:57  1Q  14-14:  Again WOW!!  Hakeem Nicks has decided he will beat Pat White by himself!  He catches a Cooter Arnold  reverse pass 30 yards down field and stiff-arms two Mountaineer defenders the other 36 yards for another touchdown!  Let the fireworks begin.  5:11  1Q  14-7 WVU:  Pat White is putting on a exhibition.  After a huge run to get a first down, he throws a 44 yard touchdown pass to Alric Arnett.  The HEELS are scrambling defensively.  They need to just take their chances blitzing White.  7:22  1Q  7-7:  WOW!!  WR Hakeem Nicks gets his first touch of the game.  A 73 yard bomb off of play action.  A spectacular catch in double coverage, then he proceeds to carry a defender the final 10 yards into the end zone.  I am sitting behind a row of pro scouts.  Napkins needed for all of the saliva.  8:56  1Q  7-0 WVU:  Pat White is dissecting the UNC defense.  RB Noel Devine scores on a play that is a picture of what's been happening to the Heels defense.  A run that has 3 missed tackles by the secondary.  It happens in the first quarter of bowl games.  It's impossible for coaches to simulate tackling during the time off before the bowl game.  13:01 1Q  0-0:  Heels come out running the ball.  They have the O-Line size that can dominate a line of scrimmage.  Because of a holding penalty and an UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT by Draughn, WVU gets a three-and-out and good field position.  Game Start:  Tarheel fans we're apparently caught in traffic.  It seems to be a 50-50 split for fans.  North Carolina wins the toss.  They take the football.  This tells me they want to start the game with Pat White in the place where they want him most of the game, ON THE SIDELINES!  Preview:  North Carolina Tarheels come out of the locker room for warm ups wearing the Navy Blue pants with white road uniforms.  IT'S BOWL TIME.  The energy in the stadium is electric.  West Virginia fans came in droves (actually they came in their homes-on- wheels),  it appears the 40,000 tickets sold to Tar Heel nation were actually West Virginia fans.  This football game will come down to three things for UNC:  1 - Get the Ball to WR Hakeem Nicks early.  If you have to hand it off to him or get him a quick slant.  This is most likely his last game in a Tarheel uniform.  And talking to him yesterday, he wants to go out with a bang.  2 - LB Quan Sturdivant has to have a big game shadowing Mountaineers Quarterback Pat White.  Carolina is going to play a 5-2 front with Sturdivant as the Middle Linebacker.  He has to treat stopping White like he's covering a punt.  You don't need to make a big hit, just make the tackle.  3 - The game plan will involve getting former tailback Greg Little the ball in space and letting him make people miss.  Mark Thomas is at Bank of America Stadium for the North Carolina game with West Virginia in the Meineke Car Care Bowl. Here is his live report from the game.  
