The intrepid Alyssa Lappen has an excellent piece today in Front Page Magazine. "Shari'a banking is but another effort to reclaim all  territories that Islam ever controlled." The American people haven't a clue.INVESTING IN JIHADIndonesian sukuk buyers may sink in the same ship with the dupes  heeding Western headlines  and Islamic gurus since the Bernard  Madoff scandal broke last  December. These financial product pushers have increasingly exaggerated the  safety of Islamic  finance securities to offset the cancer of interest-bearing debt.  Investors are now snapping up three-year Indonesian bonds that will supposedly  hold their full value and make money---an astronomical 12%---while  paradoxically avoiding speculation, alcohol, gambling, interest, and other  haram activities forbidden under shari'a law. Granted, Bernie Madoff's hedge fund investors did not expect to be robbed  blind. But they knowingly exchanged high risk for high returns. Indeed,  alternative funds are so risky that U.S. securities laws limit their sale to  investors with at least $2 million in financial assets---in other words, enough  to protect them against being totally wiped out.But even folks who should know better don't grasp the risks of Islamic  finance. London's Financial Times, for example, touted the Amana Trust Islamic  Income fund, based in Washington state, for losing only 25.8 per cent in  2008---half [sic] the average 44% loss for US stock funds. Likewise, an SEI Investments company analyst  recommended Islamic mutual funds as protection from the stock and bond markets'  extreme  ups and downs, despite their substantial losses in the last quarter of  2008. Odds are, the average Muslim Mohammed Sixpack doesn't understand the  financial risks of 12% Indonesian sukuk bonds either. High yields---for  example 12%, when the U.S. Federal Reserve lends overnight to banks at rates  close to zero---are usually called junk. Unfortunately, these bonds are also backed by assets carved up like pie and  securitized. Meaning: they can head south in a hurry, just like the sub-prime  mortgages that sank the U.S. economy, which were also also backed  by assets and securitized, not to mention the mortgage-backed  issues that unraveled dozens of huge bond, pension and public institutional  funds in 1994. In 1637, Dutch tulip bulb contracts sold for over 20 times the  annual wages of a skilled craftsman---until their solid value withered  overnight in the first financial crash in recorded history. [1] Islamic finance carries many other risks besides. The Thomas More Law Center in Ann Arbor, Mich. in December sued former  Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and the Federal Reserve Board to stop $40  billion in U.S. bail out aid from reaching American International Group (AIG).  The insurance giant devotes an entire division to shari'a  finance products, which Thomas More considers unsafe, unconstitutional  and anti-American.The suit zeros in on statutes fundamental to shari'a law, such as  funding jihad warfare. It also focuses on AIG's supervisory committee  members---Bahraini Sheikh Nizam Yaquby, Saudi Mohammed Ali Elgari and Pakistani  Muhammed Imran Ashraf Usmani, a devoted disciple of his father Mufti Taqi  Usmani. The latter Shari'a-compliant finance authority directs Western  Muslims to aggressively pursue violent jihad against the their governments. AIG is not alone. As I've often previously  noted, the shari'a finance boards setting Islamic banking standards  themselves employ highly objectionable authorities. Both the Accounting and  Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions (AAOIFI)  and Islamic Financial Services Board (IFSB), for example,  include many representatives of nations, banks, and organizations implicated in  terror-funding. Atlas  Shrugs recently comprised a more inclusive list of hot shot shari'a  personalities. Apart from Taqi Usmani---a Pakistani shari'a  court justice since 1982, shari'a director of the Saudi Al Baraka  Investment Corp. implicated in  9/11 financing and until recently an advisor to Dow Jones Islamic  Indexes---shari'a boards include other graduates of the most radical  Saudi and Pakistani Islamic universities and madrassas that duplicate Usmani's  wish to impose shari'a law globally.Shari'a finance still retains Western adherents. A Jan. 16, 2009  Hedge Funds Review article for example advises forlorn, out-of-work money  managers, Don't  forget Islamic finance. Several readers disagree. Forget Islamic finance.... It won't make it  through the crisis, a private equity venture capitalist comments. Islamic  finance itself is flawed in principle, since charging more than you loaned is  called 'interest', adds an investor relations man. As these Hedge Funds  Review subscribers avow, the industry cannot possibly elude the financial  risks that now face every other bank and investment house in the world.Read it all.UPDATE: And Islamist tools in the media are pushing this traitorous garbage. (hat tip Susan)
