             i checked both my bank accounts: my old telhio account in ohio and mynew bank account in bank of america, and obama has failed to direct depositthe negotiated funds for the $50 billion charge to the state government ofcalifornia, which brought the california state budget to $65 billion in the hole. as a result, arnold had already started laying off state employeesand must now cut financing for state education. i did propose a doubleor nothing wager on superbowl, so that if the cards won, california would've got $100 billion (needed to pull california out of a $65 billion hole caused by the DNC). but instead, pitts won and won obama a one week grace period to pay back california for the $50 billion charge. the charge came from 50NYC NYE parties (most likely due to mary watts) and obama's innauguration bills. apparently, the DNC felt since arnold was married to maria shriver kennedy and thought that i was married to mary watts (when i was never married to mary watts), they could charge $50 billion dollars to the state government of california. unfortunately, california was already $15 billion in the hole! after the $50 billion charge, the california budget became $65 billion in the hole! unfortunately, like i said, obama has failed his 5pm monday deadline to reimburse california, so also as i previously posted WWE's RAW to determine action on obama. stephanie mcmahon had announced the undertaker would take on randy orton, who tried to kick stephanie, but was blocked by her brother shane mcmahon. as a result shane mcmahon will take on randy orton at WWE's next big event: NO WAY OUT. if randy orton wins since he is a former marine that suffers from IED, than the US marines may pursue obama for embezzeling billions to pay off rich CEO's instead ofcompensating active duty troops who suffered due to IED attacks. andworse yet, some have discovered their disability checks were stolen byblack gang member identity thefters! one black woman even claimedshe was a descendant of a slave of mccain's to steal money out of mccain'saccounts! if undertaker wins, than the KKK may pursue obama for boguscharges on GOP accounts including bogus charges for hip hop cd's, pornography, and hip hop fashion that obviously no real republican wouldever order!regardless, obama really should've done the right thing! california is verydisappointed with obama so early on in his administration and ripping offcalifornia to pay for 50 NYE in NYC (due to mary watts) and his presidentialinnauguration party bills while california was already suffering enough alreadydue to state budget problems! obviously, mary's dark tares used old shoesto pull down power lines to force people to pay their electrical bills in themidwest as a desperate attempt to come up with funds due to california.unfortunately, that resulted in 62 unnecessary death despite my deployingarmy nationa guard to get people out of their houses where there was heatand widescreen TV's to watch the Superbowl and even some emergency food! i even had to fire mary watts for it since she had become a huge liability for the company!most sincerely,steve t 3169international intelligence directorprimary owner US federal governmenthttp://myspace.com/stevet3169http://myspace.com/rapture3169http://www.mobog.com/rapture3169cell: 559.940.5207--- On Sun, 2/8/09, steve t intell director .. wrote:From: steve t intell director ..Subject: re: the race toward daytona and WWE solution to determine action on africaDate: Sunday, February 8, 2009, 3:07 AMministry - jesus built my hot rod...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33tcRjgXU4ssouthern version: arkansas lawnmower races...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94eoL8KiLMsarkansas, home of the clintons, was also one of the states that sufferd fromthe power outtages along with ohio and kentucky. 62 people died this yeardue to power outage problems. i negotiated with mary watts, i gave her myspot on the cruise and said i would kiss her butt to get the power back up in the midwest after deploying national guard to get people out of their houses and into warm shelters or convention centers where i also arranged widescreen TV's for superbowl and some catering from TGIF's. to exhonerate mary watts,it is her father that has ties to the electrical industry, she however, does noteven have an electrical engineer degree to even touch a power line. however,when she lived in columbus, ohio, both she and her mother had ties with'mary jane', thus her nickname 'mary jane'. it is also a reference to 'mary jane watson' spiderman's GF. i am notorious for slinging web pages. shealso has ties with some dark tares that have been known to throw shoes onpowerlines. the shoes of dead homies. unfortunately, during the winter timewhen icicles form on the shoes, the weight can pull down a power line andcause power outages. this was why mary was questioned after the bombingof the recruiting station at times square, after a crane was dropped on a barin manhatten that killed 14 people on st. patrick's day weekend, and afterthe death of heath ledger, down the road from where she lives in soho. altho,mary has long dropped the 'mary jane' part of her life. her old dark tare buds like al quida jinx, unfortunately, still do some very bad things. they were the ones behind: the 420 riots in columbus, the cincinnati riots, the toledo riots, 9/11 (killing nearly 3000 and causing $40 billion in property damage, loss of life, and loss of business), baltimore sniper shooting, tricking america into the war on afghanistan and the war on iraq (costing america over $1 trillion, over 4000 US soldiers their lives, over 30,000 injuries), falsely accusing asians of opium to justify stealing imported japanese cars (causing $125 billion loss of business), 5 years of cali wildfires (causing $10 billion dollars property damage, over 2000 burnt down homes, over 1 million displaced southern californians, over 40 deaths not including undocumented dead mexicans), setting up a korean actor for the virginia tech shootiing, times square recruiting station bombing, crane dropped on bar in manhatten st. patrick's day weekend killing 14, and the death of heath ledger down the road from mary in soho.since i made $1.4 trillion in 2004 to bail america out of a trillion dollar federaldefecit caused by the wars caused by black lies, since $48 billion went to theDNC to do the film 'an inconvenient truth' and the concert 'live earth' in london,since $200 billion went to mayor ray nagin of new orleans for katrina, $50 billionwas embezzled by condi to africa, $48 billion billion was embezzled to fannymae in germany using paulson to financed obama's speech in berlin and hisDNC convention in denver, $85 billion embezzled to AIG to finance obama'sTV ads and pay off liberal TV programming, $125 billion embezzled to top 9bank CEO's as a form of money laundering for black people, $17 billion totop detroit CEO's to pay back money loaned to obama for his campaign, obamaand the DNC totally owes me: $573 billion dollars! thus the outrageous $800Bstimulus package obama came up with! unfortunately, like i just showed, ittakes 4 years to print $210 billion dollars! it takes 8 years to print $420 billion!keep in mind, it does not include: $40 billion for 9/11 damages, $5 billion for1993 WTC bombing, $5 million for black hawk down, $5 billion for blowing upour american embassy in kenya, $10 billion for 5 years of cali wildfires, $125 billion for stolen automobiles, $50 billion in bogus charges on creditcards traced to africans, $1 trillion price of war on afghanistan and war on iraq, $400 million for 4000 dead US soldiers, $150 million for 30,000 injuries. thattotal would be: $1 trillion, 225 billion, 555 million dollars!now, pittsburgh did win at superbowl for a one week grace period for obamato pay back california for the $50 billion charge to the state gov. of californiafor 50 NYC NYE parties and obama's inauguration party bills. but it also means the $50 billion is due to California by feb. 9th, 2009 this monday.the international GP race, which south africa won, won africa a one weekgrace period to make its first $10 million payment when in reality africaactually owes me $200 billion for $140 billion federal loan kofi got when heheaded the UN, $10 billion for $100 billion in new accounts for Africa atWTO 2005 in China, and $50 billion condi embezzled to africa. and thatmoney is due: feb. 13, 2009 by 5pm or i will not be able to stop US militaryfrom striking africa (for 1993 WTC bombing, black hawk down, blowing up our american embassy in kenya, 9/11, assasination attempts upon bush,cheney, and mccain, tricking america into the wars on afghanistan andthe war on iraq costing america $1 trillion, over 4000 US soldiers their lives,over 30,000 injuries mostly due to IED's traced to al quida aka africanimmigrant terrorists, spreading deadly diseases that killed many americans,$50 billion in bogus charges on credit cards traced to africans, armedbank roberries, armed store robberies, armed ATM robberies, shooting women of the night for their cash on hand, shooting our soldiers aftergefting back from iraq, other drive-by shootings, etc.), israeli military fromstriking gaza (for $20 billion in arms sold to palestinians by africans toincrease the attacks and deaths of jews in the middle-east), britishmilitary from attacking africa (for london bombing that killed 52 andsomali pirates attacking cruise ships with rocket launchers with brits on board), india military from attacking africa (for india hotel attack that killed300 as revenge for india navy attacking somali pirated ship), russia military(for condi selling arms to georgia former soviet republic and causingterrorism problems in russia during olympics in china), china military(for killing chinese businessmen who tried to collect on overdue fundsin africa, jumping and mugging olympic torch runners, killing chineseguard during olympics in china), japanese military (for taking japanesehostage in ir...
