 http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/c3237d38-e55d-11dd-afe4-0000779fd2ac.html     for those that have reached the limit, pasted below:    "British government officials were on Sunday putting the finishing touches to a new bank bail-out plan designed to end uncertainty about future losses and stimulate the flow of credit to consumers and companies.    The Treasury was on Sunday preparing to summon executives from Britain&#146;s leading banks to discuss details of the package, which is expected to include a government-backed insurance scheme that will cap banks&#146; potential losses on risky loans they already hold on their balance sheets, encouraging them to step up new lending.    The package, which could be formally unveiled as early as Monday, represents an admission that the &pound;400bn ($590bn) bail-out package agreed last October, while successful in preventing a complete collapse of confidence in the banking sector, has failed to stop the UK economy from tipping into a severe downturn.    As part of a series of measures, the government is expected to offer to exchange &pound;10.5bn of preference shares it holds in Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group for an increased stake in the quasi-nationalised banks.    It may also revise the business plan for Northern Rock in order to allow the state-owned mortgage bank to make more new loans.    Officials at the Treasury, Bank of England and Financial Services Authority were expected to spell out the details of their plans to executives of the UK&#146;s largest financial institutions later on Sunday, though the timetable could slip.    Though the government is expected to signal its intention to provide insurance to banks, the details of how the scheme will work remain unclear.    The new bail-out package, which could have a total value of several hundreds of billions of pounds, follows renewed jitters in the banking sector after Bank of America and Citigroup, two of the world&#146;s largest financial institutions, last week reported heavy losses.    The figures underscored the difficult operating environment for banks in the fourth quarter of last year. RBS is among those banks that is expected to unveil heavy losses when it reports full-year results next month.    However, Barclays moved to reassure investors on Friday night that it had avoided losses when it announced that full-year profits for 2008 would be &#147;well ahead&#148; of the &pound;5.3bn forecast by analysts.    Aside from the insurance scheme, officials are expected to unveil plans to guarantee the issue of new securities backed by mortgages and other loans in an effort to restart the securitisation markets, which have in effect been frozen since late 2007.    The government is also expected to set out a scheme to lend directly to large companies that are having trouble refinancing their loans.    The package will also include details of the Bank of England&#146;s plans for the Special Liquidity Scheme, which has provided &pound;200bn of liquidity to the banking sector but is due to expire at the end of the month."   Price details at 2009-01-18 16:45:04:-  Bid: 96.00, Ask: 98.00, LastTrade: 98.00, Change: -24.85%        
