 USDCHF Could Make Up Gains Despite An Expected Rise In CPI       The Swiss Franc set fresh multi-year highs against the downtrodden US dollar, with improved interest rate differentials boosting the Swissies stance against the greenback. Given the Feds surprise decision to cut interest rates by 50 basis points on September 18th and mounting speculation that the central bank will cut again in October, traders remain focused on the dollars narrowing yield advantage over the CHF. The US dollar is expected to fall further through the medium term, as clear expectations for further interest rate cuts can only worsen the bucks stance across the board. In contrast, the Swiss Francs yield curve shows steadily rising rate expectations through the period. Fundamental data somewhat supported the currencys gains, as the KOF index  a composite of major economic various economic indicators used to project growth in the coming three to six months - unexpectedly hit a 13-month high of 2.14 against expectations of a second monthly contraction to 2.00. Despite the fact that consumer sentiment has fallen in recent months amidst rising energy prices and a credit market upheaval, spending continued to fuel growth last month. What's more, business sector activity and trade account figures are still well balanced in positive territory. However, a feeling of caution is still hovering over the outlook on the Swiss economy. Should credit market disruptions upset employment trends or demand from a major trade partner like the Euro-zone cool, Swiss expansion may be in jeopardy. Nevertheless, the Swiss National Banks projections for steady, strong growth appear to be coming to fruition and could set the stage for continued rate normalization in December.      This week, event risk will be thin for the Swiss Franc, but the indicators due to be released could be market-moving on a very short-term basis. On October 1st, SVME PMI is likely to decline after the index surprisingly surged to a reading of 65.1 the month prior. Nevertheless, focus will be on the next days release, as CPI is scheduled to be announced. Inflation pressures remain very tepid, but a surprise jump could be enough to lead investors to ramp up speculation of a hike by the SNB in December. However, last weeks COT report showed that speculators are the longest they have been since June 2006, when USDCHF bottomed just below 1.20. As our Technical Strategist Jamie Saettele said in the report, If speculators return to a net short position, then it is likely that a significant low is in place, and this overextended positioning may be enough to force a short-term retrace in the USDCHF.  TB       Canadian Dollar Soars As Unemployment Hits New Low       When liquidity flooded the market last week, the Canadian dollar was back on the advance. On Monday, the USDCAD crawled to mark a new 32-year low - barely nudging out the record put in on the previous Friday  just above 0.9900. However, with crude pulling back from its own highs and no data on deck until Thursday, a modest retracement was in orders. The USDCADs buoyancy found a modest fundamental wind when the first few indicators crossed the wires. First up was the building permits report for August. The approvals report is typically a very volatile report, so the 1.4 percent increase in permits for the month, hardly warranted a big reaction.  A little more discouraging for the loonies steady run was the Ivey PMI number. Business spending unexpectedly slipped in September, as the money market rout overwhelmed favorable export and exchange rate trends.      When all was said and done though, the labor market survey took top prize for event risk. Heading into the Friday event, both sides of the USDCAD pair were expecting jobs numbers to cross the wires. The tension in the market was thick. In all likelihood, many market participants were probably ready to write off the Canadian data as it would just be a diversion from the US NFPs due only an hour and a half later. Certainly, the US payrolls had the better back story and setup. The August employment report was first to report a net loss in jobs in four years. Traders in the world over and in every asset class were waiting to see whether the American consumer was going to loose the spring in his step with confirmation of a weaker job market. Further making the US release a special event, the usual six month revision was expected to produce some dramatic results. However, the Canadian report would ultimately end up a more market moving report than its US equivalent, thanks to its consistency. A 51,100 net increase in Canadian payrolls was the biggest jump in five months and nearly triple the markets forecast. Looking at the other statistics in the Labour Force Survey, full-time jobs in the service sector enjoyed the majority of increase, the unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to a 33-year low 5.9 percent, and wages rose the most in at least a decade.       After the Canadian employment numbers hit the wires, USDCAD quickly dove below 0.9900 on a sharp, 95-point decline. Now, more than ever, with the Canadian dollar pushing to fresh 31-year highs against the greenback, consistent fundamentals and steadily rising commodity prices are essential. Looking at the days ahead, a few top tier indicators will cross the ticker. Tuesdays housing starts report for September and the August new home inflation index will reveal whether the USs problems are contagious. Also scheduled for release is the physical trade report for August  a key number for loonie bulls to watch considering the assistance the currency has garnered from exports.  - JK       Australian Employment Report Holds key to Aussie Performance       The Australian dollar set fresh 18-year highs through the past week of trade, with continued US dollar weakness and renewed carry trade demand boosting the high-yielding currency. The aussie spent much of the week trading lower as the greenback showed feint signs of life in the early going, but a Friday USD tumble left the A$ firmly higher through the close. The weeks economic data proved broadly mixed, and the highly-anticipated Reserve Bank of Australia interest rate announcement failed to deliver a hike in the official Cash Target Rate. The mild disappointment was offset by a simultaneous Retail Sales report, which showed that spending grew by a robust 0.7 percent through the month of August. Given strong consumer spending and labor growth, markets continue to expect that the Reserve Bank will have little choice to raise rates through year end. Such forecasts have undoubtedly fueled Australian dollar gains, but it will be important to watch the coming weeks Employment Change data to gauge the likelihood of such interest rate increases.      Upcoming event risk will be dominated by the aforementioned Employment Change report due Thursday, while earlier second-tier data likewise shows potential to force short-term volatility. Notables include the NAB Business Confidence result and Westpac Consumer Confidence figures, while Home Loans will draw close attention given a background of financial and lending market duress. Forecasts show expectations for strong results across the board. We pay special attention to consensus estimates of a 20.0k Employment Change through the month of September. To put this into grossly oversimplified perspective, a gain in 20,000 jobs would represent the equivalent of a +284,000 jobs result for the US Nonfarm Payrolls report. It is this type of economic strength that has bolstered the Australian economy in the face of slowing global economic growth trends, and a positive result in Thursdays Employment Change data would undoubtedly boost the domestic currency further above recent 18-year heights.   - DR       New Zealand Dollar Bulls Hope for Strong Retail Sales       The New Zealand dollar underperformed its Australian counterpart despite a strong rebound in carry trade interest, as reports of sizeable bond redemptions led international investors to repatriate NZ$ holdings. Kiwi traders were nonetheless able to leave the NZDJPY higher through the end-of-week close, finishing above key technical resistance and hinting at potential for further gains. Such carry trade-linked demand was undoubtedly related to a large-scale improvement in global risk appetite, with record-highs in US stock prices and similar heights in other international bourses keeping high-yielders bid. Whether or not this will continue is tough to predict, but traders seem willing to keep risky assets bid through upcoming trade.      An upcoming Retail Sales report dominates event risk for the Asia-Pacific currency, while relatively second-tier ANZ Business PMI data has an outside chance of forcing short-term volatility in NZD pairs. Analysts expect that Retail Sales rebounded through the month of August, showing reasonable spending growth from the domestic consumer. Of course, New Zealand dollar bulls hope that unemployment levels at multi-decade lows will stoke spending at a much quicker pace; the Reserve Bank of New Zealand previously cited strong consumption levels as justification for raising interest rates to record heights. Given forex traders renewed emphasis on interest rate differentials, rising Kiwi yields could instantly boost the currencys stance against major foreign counterparts. Otherwise, the NZD will be left to continue trading off of global risk appetite and equity market performance. Given strong stock market rallies, risks for the Kiwi remain to the upside through short-term price action.  DR
