SYDNEY (Thomson Financial) - The US dollar was weaker against the euro, yen and sterling in midmorning trade in Sydney on Tuesday after a mixed performance overnight, as  more bad news about the banking sector and housing market triggered a stampede to safe havens.       Investors unwound yen-funded carry trades after US markets slumped in response to Goldman Sachs' decision to slap a 'sell' recommendation on Citigroup.      Goldman Sachs estimates Citigroup will have to write down 15 billion US dollars in coming quarters due to its exposure to risky loans.      Additionally, the National Association of Homebuilders' November housing forecast remained at a record low and Goldman Sachs downgraded home-improvement retailer Lowe's to 'neutral' from 'buy' on concerns about the deteriorating housing market.      The dismal news intensified risk aversion in the market and increased pressure on the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again in December, said Thomson IFR analyst John Noonan.      'The Fed and the money markets are staring each other down and the question is who will blink first. The hawkish comments made on Friday from Federal Open Market Committee members Poole and Kroszner were designed to dampen expectations of a Fed easing on December 11, but they have been completely ignored,' Noonan said.      'The market feels that the Fed has no choice and by continuing to price in an easing it will force the Fed's hand in any case. If the Fed decides to dig their heels in it would upset an already fragile Wall Street and lead to more carry trade unwinding.'      At 10.05 am (2305 GMT), 1 dollar was buying 109.71 yen compared with 109.81 yen in late New York trade as investors dumped the greenback to buy back the yen, which carries a very lower interest rate and is perceived as a safe investment.      The euro was slightly higher at 1.4666 US dollars from 1.4665 US dollars in late overnight trading and the sterling inched higher against the greenback. The British currency was buying 2.0496 US dollars in midmorning trade compared with 2.0494 US dollars in New York.      Also weighing on the US dollar is a call by United Arab Emirates policymakers for a review of dollar-pegged exchange rates in the region. Saudi Arabia has signalled it may be willing to discuss reform.      'The news triggered a scramble by investors, with Bahrain's dinar rising to a 10-month high and Oman's rial gaining to its highest in a month,' said John Kyriakopoulos, head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank.      Meanwhile, the higher-yielding Australian dollar will come under pressure in Asian trading today if regional share markets follow the negative lead from Wall Street.      Half way through the morning session in Sydney, the Aussie was buying 88.20 US cents compared with 88.40 US cents overnight.
