Cesc Fabregas feels the trust shown in Arsenal's youngsters will ultimately pay big dividends. Arsene Wenger's young Gunners romped to a 6-0 victory over Sheffield United on Tuesday night, with the average age of the side just 19. The Arsenal manager maintains having such quality coming through is one of the reasons why he has often shied away from bringing in big-name signings just to appease the critics. With the likes of Manchester City, now backed by a mega-rich Middle East investment group, able to throw endless amounts of cash at team building in an attempt to break into the Barclays Premier League top four, there have been suggestions Arsenal will be left behind. But Fabregas insists Wenger's methods of developing talent from within are sound. 'We are lucky to be at a club like Arsenal,' said the 21-year-old. 'They prefer to trust in young players and not spend big money. 'Others can pay whatever they want, but the reality is the truth, we are happy with what we have got. 'At the moment, we don't look for what other clubs do. We are just happy the way we are.' With Mathieu Flamini joining AC Milan in the summer, it has been suggested the combative Fabregas needs a defensive partner to get the best out of his game. However, Fabregas insists he can fit right in with whoever Wenger puts in midfield. 'I will adapt to whatever I have got,' said Fabregas, speaking at the launch of Gameloft's 'Real Football 2009'. 'I have been playing with Patrick [Vieira], Edu, Gilberto, Flamini and now Denilson and they are all so different. 'We adapt well every time. It is not the same as with Flamini because he was running everywhere and you could see he was more defensive and I could go forward. 'Maybe Denilson and I have the same type of game. So maybe we have to compensate and I have defend more. But I don't mind. 'In this last week I have seen parts and aspects of my game that maybe last year or two years ago I could not do and this year I am doing it.' Wenger is set to recall his big guns for Saturday's game with Hull as Arsenal aim to keep themselves top of the table. Gael Clichy should be fit after tests revealed he had only suffered bruising to his shin in a heavy challenge with Kevin Davies at Bolton last weekend, but Alex Song (hip) is a doubt. Mikael Silvestre will also be available for the first time following his move from Manchester United. 
