  Whether by accident or by design, European Ryder Cup captain Nick Faldo has found himself a team of which he will be the unquestioned dominating force.With Colin Montgomerie and Darren Clarke, vastly experienced Ryder Cup players and also two big personalities, out in the cold and rejected in favour of Ian Poulter and Paul Casey, players in their 30s who look up to their fellow Englishman in a pupil-teacher kind of way, the way is clear for Faldo to do it his way. Faldo sang 'I did it my way' in his victory speech to answer his critics when he won the Open at Muirfield in 1992, and 16 years on the same refrain is relevant for the Ryder Cup that starts in just over a fortnight in Kentucky.By doing things his way he alienated many of his contemporaries in his playing days but a six-major haul is ample justification for his behaviour. Move on a generation and players like Poulter and Casey can look up in awe to this formidable figure, and there is no doubt they will play their hearts out for him. advertisement So will the rest of the team in which only Miguel Angel Jimenez is over 40, and being a late developer he had little direct contact with Faldo at his peak. The captain will also make an exception for a man whose request for the team room at Oakland Hills in 2004 was 'Rioja wine, an espresso machine and cigars'. Jimenez is his own man who has never needed motivating, and Faldo remarked: 'If I was to tell him to eat salad every day and hit balls for five hours he would collapse.' Playing at the right level of intensity has always been Faldo's mantra and he sees his job as getting every one of his players to their up-and-at-em peaks when they step on to the first tee. One way to achieve that is to have every one of them eating out of his hands.Faldo reasoned that he was giving his two wild cards to players who performed best in the major championships. Had he wanted to he could easily have found reasons for picking Montgomerie and Clarke, namely their records and their strength over the years not just in the team room but also in successful partnerships for example with Padraig Harrington and Lee Westwood respectively.Not many Americans would relish facing pairings like that even if you might first have to check their sell-by dates.Montgomerie yesterday mused that he might actually have been Faldo's fifth choice behind Clarke and Carl Pettersson, who has been performing will in the US. But if Faldo had been given more wild cards who is to say he wouldn't have gone for youngsters Nick Dougherty or Martin Kaymer who just missed out on the automatic selections?'The bottom line is I want to gather all the information myself, first hand'Equally, Faldo has decided not to add to his back room team of one, his trusty lieutenant Jose Maria Olazabal. He said there will be no attempt to bring back Paul McGinley to the fold and nor would there be any kind of similar offer to the willing Montgomerie. 'We are very comfortable,' he assured, and he said he had drawn from his experience as captain of the GB&amp;amp;I team at the Seve Trophy in Ireland last year. 'It was valuable to know how I can move around the golf course, and the real bottom line is I want to gather all the information myself, first hand, and I'm confident I can make the decisions.' That might seem like controlling behaviour by a man afraid to trust anyone but himself. Moreover, it was in Ireland that Faldo and Montgomerie had a spat, with the Scot being accused of failing to turn up to team meetings - an accusation he strenuously denied. Yet another lesson may have been to ensure an absence of dissension, perceived or otherwise, in the ranks.Even to the experienced players in the team Faldo is a big man. He said Lee Westwood had a new role to play in partnering one of the four rookies, reminding that when Westwood first appeared on the Ryder Cup in 1997 Faldo performed the wet-nursing himself on that occasion.When Sergio Garcia holed a long putt on the final green at the Barclays tournament, he turned to the television tower where Faldo was watching and put his hand on his heart. 'That's for you captain,' was the message. Faldo has suggested Padraig Harrington, now a three-time major winner, is underplaying his role as unofficial player-captain, but those who know him well say that he will go along with the captain in the team environment because it is not in his nature to be confrontational.The captain's role has always been crucial and never more so than this year. His team is moulded to his personality like a glove to a hand and if it all works out then the means will handsomely justify the end.If not then you are likely to be deafened by the sound of knives being sharpened for a spot of serious filleting.  permission is prohibited. 
