Booed off at half-time and again at the final whistle, Spurs remain stuck at the bottom of the table and have yet to show any sign that their vastly remodelled squad will be gelling any time soon. This goalless draw means Tottenham's start to the campaign is even worse than 34 years ago, when they escaped relegation by a point. Ramos, however, remains confident he can turn things round and was quick to dismiss claims he is ready to throw in the towel and return to Spain. Tottenham Hotspur manager Juande Ramos (left) and assistant manager Gus Poyet get their message across'It is not true,' he said. 'I love London and Tottenham. I am living a marvellous experience.' There was precious little in the way of marvellous experiences for Spurs fans, with a dubious penalty appeal for a perceived foul on Aaron Lennon by Maynor Figueroa the closest their side came to breaking the deadlock. Ramos said of referee Steve Tanner's unwillingness to point to the spot: 'I am a little frustrated because we hoped to win. In the second half, it would have been possible to win with the penalty. I think it was a penalty. 'I think the pressure on the team is high. We have a young squad and being in the bottom three doesn't permit players to play with freedom. 'The problem is that we need adaptation. Some players arrived at the last moment and they practically haven't trained with the team. It is normal when there are big changes to need time. We need to work hard each day to improve.' Roman Pavlyuchenko certainly needs to improve - and fast given his 13.8million price tag. Hauled off at half-time in favour of loan striker Fraizer Campbell, the Russia strike looks about as far away from being a replacement for either Dimitar Berbatov or Robbie Keane as you could get. The best Pavlyuchenko could manage was a solitary shot after eight minutes, which dribbled out for a throw-in. No wonder Wigan manager Steve Bruce cannot believe his luck about how quickly Amr Zaki has found his feet, although the Egyptian failed to add to the four goals he has scored in the Barclays Premier League. Sympathising with Ramos and the Russian's plight, Bruce said: 'I saw Pavlyuchenko before the game in the hotel reading a phrase book, so he is trying to learn. 'I don't care whether you are a big player, coming to Spurs with the expectation, and when there have been a lot of changes, is always difficult. That is why the big teams make one or two changes and keep the nucleus of the squad. A big turnaround for me is never great.' Only a lack of cutting edge prevented Wigan from taking all three points, a late strike from substitute Olivier Kapo that needed tipping over by Heurelho Gomes their best chance.But a measure of the malaise affecting Tottenham was the disappointment Bruce felt at not getting the victory. 'We had a fantastic opportunity and we are just disappointed that we took the wrong option or didn't make the killer pass,' he said. Addressing the boo boys, Ramos said graciously: 'The opinion of the fans is always just.' The silver lining for Ramos is that next up for Spurs in the Carling Cup is the only club who could claim to be in more turmoil, namely Newcastle.
