(Asia Pulse Data Source via COMTEX) -- BAAQY   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- After years of living a life out of suitcase, the nomad in Jeev Milkha Singh is finally slowing down and the golf pro says he would compete in fewer events in future to attain his ultimate dreams of winning a Major title.After a rather mundane 2007, things brightened up again for Jeev this year with his triumphs at the Bank Austria Open on the European Tour and Nagashima Shigeo Invitational Sega Sammy Cup in Japan. A slew of strong finishes, including the tied ninth place in PGA Championship, has also done a world of good to his morale and the Indian believes he has the game to win on the PGA Tour, possibly a Major.'I have played in every tour. My goal is to win a PGA Tour title and then a Major. I feel I do have the game to achieve that but I still need to work hard and remain physically fit.'I hope to get a Major title sometime under my belt,' Jeev, who has won on the Asian, European and Japan Tours, told reporters here.There was a time when Jeev played 40-week-a-year, hitch-hiking his way to Asian Tour, Japan Tour, European Tour and PGA Tour but the seasoned pro now realises he has to streamline his calendar to prolong his career.'I guess I would have to drop Asian and Japan Tours in that case. I mean I would play a few tournaments there but anything more is not possible for me if I want to continue till my 50s,' he said.Nursing an ankle injury, Jeev, who is the brand ambassador for Barclays Bank, ruled himself out of next month's Indian Open and said, 'I guess it's not possible this year. I'm currently going through rehabilitation where I play two weeks and take the next week off. It's disappointing not to play at home but I cannot take chance.'Already I cannot practice enough. I want to hit 300 balls a day but can't do more than 100 because the pain comes back. I run a mile everyday but I could not do that for the last two months. I have put on three kilos as well and I'm not happy with it.' He, however, promised to play in the BILT Open in December as a mark of his solidarity with the Professional Golf Tour of India.Jeev also vowed to give his best for the country when he partners Jyoti Randhawa in the World Cup in November.'I should not sound over-confident but I can say that we have very good prospect in China.'Jyoti is an excellent player and his experience of playing in the earlier World Cups would come handy,' he added.Jeev was not too worried with Randhawa's slump in form and said, 'He is not fully fit and is recovering from flu. Everybody goes through such phase. But he is a rock solid player and I hope we would shine in tandem.' Jeev cherishes his tied ninth finish in the PGA Championship -- best by an Indian in a Major -- and said life is fun on PGA Tour.Recalling incidents where people mistook him for Vijay Singh's kin, Jeev said, 'Sometimes, they would call me Vijay's son, sometimes his brother. It's really funny.' Jeev also thanked fans for their support and said, 'During the PGA Championship, whenever I hit a good shot, some 200-300 Indians following me would chant 'Singh is King'. It was so amusing.'For full details for BAAQY click here.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
