ANGELITA PIRES, the former lover of the slain East Timorese rebel leader Alfredo Reinado, said she is destitute and barely able to feed herself in Dili, where a court order prevents her from returning to her family's home in Darwin. Her life is in 'extreme danger' and Timorese authorities are refusing to provide her with protection despite pleas for help from the Australian embassy in Dili, she said. 'My life has been shattered into a million pieces,' Ms Pires, 38, a Timorese-born Australian, said by telephone. 'The AFP [Australian Federal Police] are investigating the case - they know I'm innocent. Why can't they allow me to get back to my life?' Ms Pires lives in a shack built of concrete and tin with an 11-year-old girl whose parents are poor mountain people. 'I'm finding it difficult to get access to one sack of rice a month,' she said. 'If we have two or three decent meals a week that's a luxury.' Ms Pires has been accused of influencing and manipulating the actions of Reinado, who led a group of heavily armed rebels to the homes of the Timorese President, Jose Ramos-Horta, and the Prime Minister, Xanana Gusmao, shortly after dawn on February 11. Reinado was shot dead and Mr Ramos-Horta was seriously wounded but later recovered after emergency surgery at Royal Darwin Hospital. A court in Dili detained Ms Pires briefly in February and then confiscated her passport pending the completion of an investigation. Ms Pires told the Herald the truth of what happened that day has not yet been revealed. 'Something went wrong [on February 11],' she said. 'I believe there was probably the right intent &amp;amp; the intention was good from all the parties involved.' Ms Pires said she needed to see a psychologist and her health had been poor since miscarrying Reinado's child because of the grief she suffered. She said she had pleaded with the Australian embassy for protection but was told that neither Australian soldiers nor United Nations police in Dili could provide any 'until something serious happens'. Ms Pires denied a claim that she and Reinado had almost $1 million in a Commonwealth Bank account in Darwin. 'My earning ability is zero. They have frozen my account &amp;amp; the money I had in it wasn't that much anyway,' she said. The Australian Government has agreed to pay for Ms Pires's legal defence, and has granted her an initial $71,000 from a fund that helps Australians facing charges abroad. But Ms Pires said her case is too 'political' to be defended by Timorese lawyers. A spokesman for the Australian Federal Police was unable to respond at the time of publication. 
