The twenty-eight year-old from Surrey dominated the women's arms-only single scull (AW1x) to win by an astonishing 13 seconds, and Tom Aggar led from the first stroke to win gold in the men's arms-only single scull (AM1x).'It is absolutely amazing,' said a delighted Raynsford afterwards. 'All I can say about the race is that it hurt.'Raynsford, the 2006 world champion, got a fast start and was already leading by four seconds at the 250m mark. But she continued to pull away from the rest of the field, forcing 2007 silver medallist Luidmila Vauchok from Belarus to settle for silver again.Raynsford said: 'I knew if I could get out of the start as quick as I could and get into the lead I could do it. I said after the world championships last year that I would come back and win gold in Beijing.Although I row in a single scull, I am part of the best team in the world. I couldn't have done it without my fantastic support team.'Laura Schwanger of USA finished fast to take bronze while reigning world champion Brazil's Claudia Santos was only sixth.Aggar, the reigning world champion, was pushed hard by eventual silver medallist Oleksandr Petrenko of Ukraine.He said: 'It was a great race, I was happy to be pushed all the way.'It has been an amazing journey since I started rowing one-and-a-half years ago. So to come out on top is a pretty indescribable feeling. It's partly relief that it's all over because it has been a big build-up so I'm really pleased with the outcome.'It's great for our sport. It's our first year at the Paralympics so to come out on top is incredible. We have been rubbing shoulders with the Olympic rowers, and they are a huge inspiration to us, especially after their success. Hopefully we have done them proud.'Aggar praised Raynsford's historic victory: 'Congratulations to her, she is a great athlete.'Tom and I said at the start of the year that we wanted world domination in the single sculls, said Raynsford. Now we've done it.'Britain won bronze in the legs, trunk and arms mixed coxed four. Gold medallists Italy led the whole way, but Britain had a poor start and never recovered from the setback.Crew member James Morgan said: 'I think when we look back we'll be very proud but the result is not what we wanted.'Teammate Naomi Riches said: 'It has been a fantastic experience. We didn't perform as we would have liked but we will go away, train hard and hopefully put together a better race next time.'Britain's trunk and arms mixed double scull of Karen Cromie and James Roberts finished fifth as China took gold.The Beijing 2008 Paralympic Games opened on September 6 and closes on September 17. Great Britain is represented in 18 of the 20 sports by 206 athletes. At the Athens 2004 Paralympic Games Britain finished second in the medal table with a total of 35 golds, 30 silver and 29 bronze medals. With competitive standards continually rising and the dominant Chinese team taking the home advantage ParalympicsGB recognises that the 2008 Paralympics will be one of its biggest challenges yet.UK based media wanting further information on ParalympicsGB should contact the UK based press office at 01225 443 998 or on email at press@matchtight.co.uk. Media based in China should contact the ParalympicsGB press office on +86 106 661 7236 or email: press-office@paralympics.org.ukFor news updates on ParalympicsGB please visit www.paralympics.org.ukParalympicsGB is the trading name of the British Paralympic Association registered charity number 802385. ParalympicsGB provides crucial and fundamental support to all competing Paralympic athletes. From nurturing talent www.parasport.org.uk, supporting coaches, providing medical and sport science support, acclimatisation and training facilities, to financing travel to competition. Established in 1989 we are funded by a mix of sponsorship, charitable donations and a small operations grant. For more information visit our website:www.paralympics.org.ukParalympicsGB acknowledges with gratitude the assistance given by the following partners: adidas (UK) Ltd, BP, British Airways, BT, Deloitte, EDF Energy, Lloyds TSB, Nortel.ParalympicsGB and Paralympic sports have benefited from UK Sports World Class Performance Programme, backed by the National Lottery. For more information, visit www.uksport.gov.uk
