Carlos Cuellar is poised to make the first steps towards fulfilling his dream of playing for Spain.The 27-year-old made a 7.8million switch from Rangers to Aston Villa in a bid to gain international recognition and he has been lined up for a debut against Litex Lovech.A calf injury has delayed his bow until this UEFA Cup contest at a sodden Gradski Stadion and he could be one of a raft of changes by Villa, who pounced for their man following Rangers' shock Champions League defeat by FC Kaunas.All the attention since landing in Bulgaria has been on local hero Stiliyan Petrov, whose popularity here is such that his wedding was shown live on state television, but manager Martin O'Neill has been juggling changes in his mind.With this European trip sandwiched between away trips to Tottenham and West Brom, ageing captain Martin Laursen's legs may be given a rest with Cuellar, who O'Neill views as a potential successor to Barcelona's Carles Puyol with Spain, in the frame. 'Carlos is a defender who has a little bit of ability,' he said. 'He can manoeuvre it. He also wants to come and head the ball. He is wiry more than anything else but is a real competitor. 'I saw a lot of his games in European football for Rangers. From last Christmas onwards we really started taking an interest in him. 'Rangers going out of the Champions League probably made their minds up and this was a chance to get some of that lost revenue back for them. 'With money being so tight, perhaps it influenced them. 'There's always a concern in my mind that Martin Laursen can play all the games, given his past injury problems. Not that Carlos has come in here to think anything other than he will be playing. 'Carlos' ambition is to play for Spain. He voiced that when he joined us. He thinks he's capable of doing it. Only time will tell whether he will. 'But I think he has the potential to do that. Carles Puyol has become a permanent fixture for Barcelona and Spain for years. I think Carlos feels, at 27, he has the time to do so.' O'Neill will be forced into other changes from the side which went fourth in the Barclays Premier League after the 2-1 victory over Spurs on Monday.Ashley Young (knee) is a major doubt while James Milner has been confirmed as a starter by O'Neill after striker John Carew (ankle) was left at home.Current Bulgarian cup holders Litex lie second in their domestic league and O'Neill has compared them to Odense, the Danish team who caused such problems in the Intertoto Cup.The hosts boast a somewhat turbulent past, however, with their former chairman Angel Bonchev subject of ransom demands from the mafia three months ago after being kidnapped.His wife Kameliya was imprisoned for 19 days after dropping off 'hundreds of thousands of pounds' in cash. Bonchev was later found, minus two fingers. 'Since the draw was made we have had them watched,' O'Neill said, of opponents managed by former Bulgaria caretaker coach Stanimir Stoilov. 'They are a good footballing team. 'I know people are sick and tired of me saying this, but we will have to be on our guard. We will be treating this game very carefully indeed. 'We started this competition in July and wanted to qualify for it. It is not something we have taken lightly since the draw was made. 'It would be disappointing, having come this far, not to get into the group stages.' Stoilov watched the White Hart Lane encounter live on television earlier this week and reflected: 'I am very afraid of Aston Villa because they're a very strong team.' 'I watched the game against Tottenham on Monday and I am very scared. They were perfect against Tottenham. But we will be looking for the win from the first minute.'
