 Manchester United are winning the battle to sign Dimitar Berbatov from Tottenham.On a crazy day in the north-west, the Bulgarian finally met Sir Alex Ferguson at United's Carrington training complex before heading to Old Trafford for what many people see as the final act in one of the summer's most lengthy transfer sagas.And news that Berbatov was having a medical with United in Manchester only further fuelled the belief that United were about to get their man.It has been repeated throughout the day that a fee has still to be agreed between United and Tottenham, and publicly at least Spurs have not even given Berbatov permission to speak with the Old Trafford outfit.However, it is hard to see how such manoeuvrings can be done without the selling club's consent although nothing can be ruled out - especially with Manchester City so keen to hijack the deal.It would now appear unlikely Ferguson would fail in a quest that has taken him months to reach this stage.As well as bidding for Berbatov, City's prospective new owner has revealed the club have lodged bids for Valencia striker David Villa and Stuttgart forward Mario Gomez.Dr Sulaiman Al-Fahim, who is heading the Abu Dhabi United Group's takeover of the Barclays Premier League club, told PA Sport that he is 'hopeful' a deal for Tottenham's Berbatov can be agreed before midnight after a fee of more than 30million was agreed.And he said: 'We have bids in for three players. There is Berbatov, but there is also David Villa and Mario Gomez. We have bids in for Villa and Gomez and I am waiting to hear whether we have been successful with those (offers).''Funds are available, and transfers such as these show we are serious,' he added.Editor's ChoiceNEW poems from some of Stroud's finest wordsmiths will accompany this year's Stroud Water Textile Festival.DJ JAGDISH Patel is one of Stroud FM's new radio presenters.WHY is it that three quintessentially English roles have gone to a couple of Americans and one Australian? Having just won two substantial Oscars this year it must be plain for any idiot to see that Britain has talent. So when this film's director Justin Chadwick says they were just perfect for the roles because 'they're great actors', it sticks in my craw. Though it is fair to say the Australian Cate Blanchett did a fine job as Queen Elizabeth I, I still think that it is insulting to Americans to assume they would be unable to cope with an unknown name in the lead, but it is an even greater insult to us. We have a treasure trove of talent in this country that is struggling to get noticed in a profession in which 88% are out of work. But we also have a myriad of big names as well, so shame on you Mr. Chadwick.SET in the early 1980s this film is based on the true story of hard drinking womaniser Charlie Wilson, who also had a penchant for coke. He was the liberal Democrat congressman from Texas said to have been totally responsible for organising the biggest undercover operation in the history of the United States. This involved supplying the Afghan Mujahideen with arms during the Soviet war in Afghanistan, the success of which unfortunately was the beginning of a very tricky future for the Afghan nation.
