Gianfranco Zola has revealed his football blueprint that he hopes will win over West Ham fans and overcome the doubts about his Chelsea allegiance. The Stamford Bridge legend will be appointed as the first foreign boss at Upton Park on Thursday and yesterday he gave Sportsmail his first interview since agreeing to the controversial appointment, promising football that will put smiles on faces. I only know one way to play: on the floor, attacking football, the way things should be done, said the diminutive Italian.  I want to excite people, that is why we play, isnt it? This is a new era, a new chapter for me. I was an offensive player, who only knew one way to play. That is how my teams will always play. I know there is a rivalry between Chelsea and West Ham, but that is not a problem. My playing career is in my past. Some Hammers fans are against the decision to appoint Zola, and former Chelsea team-mate Frank Leboeuf has advised his friend against taking the post. More...   Zola is considering Steve Clarke and Pierluigi Casiraghi for his management set-up, further fuelling the Chelsea invasion of the East End. And Antonio Pintas will be appointed as the fitness coach having also worked at Stamford Bridge, as well as Monaco and Leeds. Former France international Leboeuf said: He (Zola) is a very intelligent person, very smart on the pitch and Im sure hes going to do well. My only concern is that he was a Chelsea player and not a West Ham player. I heard a West Ham fan say that they would rather the club went for Paolo Di Canio because he was a Hammers legend and I can understand that. I never wanted to sign for another club because I gave my faith and my love to Chelsea and I think you have to stick to that. Gianfranco is a legend at Chelsea and I dont see him at West Ham. Ive nothing against West Ham but Zola belongs to Chelsea. The Italians name still echoes around Stamford Bridge in much the same way as Manchester United supporters continue to worship Eric Cantona. The 42-year-old insisted that he would win over West Ham fans, but asked that Chelsea supporters understand his decision to replace Alan Curbishley. This is a new adventure for me. I spent seven years at Chelsea and they were seven of the best years of my career, said Zola. I loved playing there, but the fans must understand that I have a new career now and my playing career is in the past. Zola was flying back to Italy last night after his Under 21 team drew 1-1 with Croatia here to win their European Championship qualifying group. He gave a farewell speech to his players and must now conclude a release from his contract before his anticipated arrival in London tomorrow. This is an opportunity in the Premier League and an opportunity I didnt expect, but its an opportunity I cant turn down, he said. The hardest thing was to say goodbye to those players in the dressing room. The Under 21s play the way football should be played. I try to put a smile on their faces and I can tell you they put a smile on mine with the way they play. Everything has to be agreed with the federation, but I am confident that it will be resolved when I return to Italy. There are still talks, but I am sure they will go well. The idea of being a manager has grown on Zola. It never appealed to me when I was a player, but working with these young players, being their coach and seeing the way they play without fear gives me that rush. Getting results and getting feedback from the players gives me a confidence. The temptation to manage in England is too much. I love London, I love the lifestyle. Whenever I think of London, it has good memories. Chelsea captain John Terry welcomed his old friends return to the capital and backed him to one day take over at Stamford Bridge. Terry, who played with Zola for five years, said: He is a Chelsea legend. Im sure one day hell be back at Chelsea. Hes managed the (Italy) Under 21s for a while and has a bit more experience. It will be great for him and maybe Gigi (Casiraghi) to take the job and hopefully get the experience to one day become Chelsea manager. Zola takes over a team in fifth place in the Barclays Premier League. West Ham travel to West Bromwich on Saturday. 
