         UK bank bail-out will turn fire on Lloyds TSB&amp;#039;s purchase of HBOS  The MAC has become a MIC. When investment banks were underwriting UK bank rights issues this summer, they included clauses guarding against material adverse change  an unforeseen shift in the capital raisers financial health that allowed capital providers to walk away.     http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/breakingviewscom/3159952/...   By George Hay,  breakingviews.com  Last Updated: 5:42PM BST 08 Oct 2008  As efforts to help banks accelerate, we have what could be called material improvement changes  where a general bank rescue entails individual deal bail-outs as well.   Lloyds TSB is the most obvious beneficiary. On September 16, a 40pc fall in HBOS shares convinced the UK government that the countrys biggest mortgage lender had to be rescued. The snag? Teaming it up with Lloyds would create a monster with almost 30pc of the UK mortgage market. So Alistair Darling, chancellor of the exchequer, waived competition rules, and the MAC became a MIC.   Fast forward to October 7, and HBOS shares once again tanked 42pc on wholesale funding fears. The shares fell to 93p, less than half the 0.83 of a Lloyds share specified in the takeover deal.   The problem now? All UK banks with large wholesale requirements were under pressure. So Darling guaranteed their wholesale funding for three years  and HBOS shares rose 25pc on Wednesday.   The irony is that the second MIC renders the first almost redundant. If the banks had been bailed out a month earlier, waiving the competition rules would have been unnecessary.   Now that the UK is standing behind its banks funding and bolstering their capital, HBOS and Lloyds are probably better left independent  it would be better for competition, and avert possibly tens of thousands of redundancies as Lloyds extracts synergies. These may substantially exceed the 1bn originally estimated.   Lloyds shareholders wont care  with their two MICs, they should get through the next year in reasonable comfort, and then enjoy the fruits of their dominant market share.   But their joy and the governments may be short-lived. Lloyds could face criticism for helping keep  mortgage rates  high while making huge profits. And the government will face flak for bending the rules to allow a merger which rapidly became redundant.                  
