A signalling problem at Bradford Interchange disrupted rail services on the day the station reopened after a nine-day closure for engineering works.   All train services at the station were subject to delays for part of yesterday afternoon when a signal relay broke down.   A replacement had to be brought to Bradford from another location.   Network Rail, which had just invested 8.5m on works to track, station buffers and signals, said yesterdays problem was not linked to the newly-completed engineering works.   A Network Rail spokesman said: There was an issue with the signalling with a bit of kit that was worn out.   But it was nothing to do with the engineering works which all went well and finished bang on time.   Warrick Dent, area general manager for the company, said: The massive amount of work we have carried out at Bradford is to get rid of a historic bottleneck. It will speed up journey times between Leeds and Bradford.   Steve Butcher, area director for Northern Rail, said: Passengers will benefit from more reliable journey times.  Three prosecution witnesses have failed to attend court to give evidence in the trial of a couple accused of a crash-for-cash insurance scam, a jury heard.   This x-ray clearly shows a gun pellet lodged inside a cat which had to undergo life-saving surgery after it was shot in Bradford.   Health chiefs in Bradford have backed a Coroners warning about the dangers of binge drinking after a teenager drowned during a night out.   Legal moves are under way to evict a group of travellers who have camped on the car park of a former car dealership in Bradford.   A rugby star was on hand to help raise hundreds of pounds for charity at the launch of a new hair salon.   The number of people suffering from cancer could double in the next 40 years unless steps are taken to stem the rising tide of obesity, an expert has warned.  Obafemi Martins sent Newcastle hurtling up the Barclays Premier League table but still could not keep Joey Barton out of the headlines.   Jeremy Clarkson has sparked fresh BBC controversy by joking about murdering prostitutes.  Dean Furman faces a three-week lay-off to add to Citys mounting midfield injury woes. 
