     The Baseball Crank makes a great post about the major candidates and how they are handling the current financial troubles. First, his take on McCain:  Now, John McCain has never been accused of being a financial whiz, but the one thing we can trust McCain not to do is panic in a crisis, or encourage anyone else to panic. McCain's survived three plane crashes, multiple bouts with cancer, the loss of a presidential primary campaign, five years in captivity, months on end in solitary confinement, countless hours of torture, being at the epicenter of a shipboard fire that killed 134 people, being named in a front-page scandal that killed multiple major political careers, being beaten by an angry mob, having one of his top legislative priorities torpedoed by his own party's base, standing stubbornly for a war nearly everybody had declared lost, and just a year ago found his presidential campaign broke, rudderless and declared dead by nearly everybody. Yet time after time after time, McCain picked himself up, dusted himself off, gritted his teeth, set his jaw, and refused to give up, whether that meant lying broken in a filthy cell as a young man or trudging on week after week to sparsely-attended rallies in the New Hampshire snow as an old one. And then, his look at Obama and the Democrats:  The palpable panic of Obama and the Democrats can best be seen in their aimless and economically illiterate lashing out to try to capitalize on the credit crisis after weeks of losing polling ground. Joe Biden thinks he can convince people to blame the Bush tax cuts for the credit crisis (!), or worse yet, he believes it himself. Obama himself can apparently barely even spell AIG and is voting 'present' on the bailout, yet he's still pushing to jack up taxes on all forms of investment, even months after admitting that he favored a capital gains hike even if it didn't bring the government any more tax revenue. Harry Reid gives an unhinghed speech calling the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act &amp;quot;financial weapons of mass destruction,&amp;quot; ignoring the fact that Reid and Joe Biden voted for the Act in its final form, to say nothing of the fact that J.P. Morgan's purchase of Bear Stearns, Barclays' purchase of Lehman Brothers, and Bank of America's purchase of Merrill Lynch would all have been impossible without Gramm-Leach-Bliley's elimination of the archaic and artificial Depression-era barriers between commercial and investment banking. Then, Reid turns around and admits that &amp;quot;No one knows what to do.&amp;quot; At this point, the whole lot of them look like Kathleen Blanco, the Democratic Governor of Louisiana who simply froze up in the crisis of Hurricane Katrina. That's hitting pretty hard but for the most part, I think it is true. Just take a look at how the Pelosi congress is handling the energy issue. They went on vacation while the Republicans stayed there and waited to get something done. Then Pelosi and friends come back and pass a sham of an energy bill restricting drilling in the place it would be most beneficial. No wonder their ratings are worse than Bush's. I don't pretend to know what exactly is going on here nor do I have any idea how to fix it. Finances is not my bag. But I do know that panic is the worst thing one can do in an emergency and I see a lot more of it coming from the left than I do from the right. Yet again giving reason behind my typical voting behavior. I don't expect this financial crisis to be out of bounds potically, but I do expect intellectual honesty, as usual. And if, as Harry Reid says, no one knows what to do, perhaps the best thing to do is find someone who does rather than walking away from the problem (i.e. another vacation from congress.) Shameful. That is all.    
