(From the Albany Business Journal) &amp;nbsp;  Lehman Brothers Chairman and CEO Richard Fuld Jr. received compensation valued at $34 million in 2007. Lehman (OTC:LEHMQ) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this month.  Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), which Sunday gained Federal Reserve Bank approval to become a bank holding company, paid Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein $70 million last year. Co-Chief Operating Officers Gary Cohn and Jon Winkereid were granted compensation worth $72.5 million and $71 million, respectively.  Morgan Stanley Chairman John Mack earned $1.6 million. Chief Financial Officer Colin Kelleher got $21 million in compensation last year. Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) this week received approval to become a bank holding company, a shift that allows Morgan and Goldman to bring in bank deposit assets, which offer more solid financial footing.  Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain was paid $17 million in salary, bonuses and stock options in 2007. Merrill (NYSE:MER) is being acquired by Bank of America (NYSE:BAC). BofA CEO Kenneth Lewis earned $25 million in 2007.  JP Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. Chairman and CEO James Dimon earned $28 million in 2007. Chase (NYSE:JPM) acquired troubled investment house Bear Stearns earlier this year, with the federal government promising to take on as much as $30 billion in Bear assets to help get the deal done.  Fannie Mae CEO Daniel Mudd received $11.6 million in 2007. His counterpart at Freddie Mac, Richard Syron, brought in $18 million. The federal government announced earlier this month it was taking over the mortgage backers with Herbert Allison to serve as Fannie CEO and David Moffett the new CEO at Freddie.  Wachovia Corp. Chairman and CEO G. Kennedy Thompson received $21 million in 2007. He was succeeded by Robert Steel as CEO in July. Steel is slated to get a $1 million salary with an opportunity for a $12 million bonus, according to CEO Watch. Wachovia (NYSE:WB) is one of the banks that could be sold in the midst of the financial crisis.  Seattle-based Washington Mutual (NYSE:WAMU) will pay its new CEO, Alan Fishman, a salary and incentive package worth more than $20 million through 2009 for taking the helm of the battered bank, according to the Puget Sound Business Journal.   CEOs of large U.S. corporations averaged $10.8 million in total compensation in 2006, more than 364 times the pay of the average U.S. worker, according to the latest survey by United for a Fair Economy. &amp;nbsp;
