By Adrian Krajewski and Kuba Jaworowski WARSAW, Jan 29 (Reuters) - Poland's economy slowed sharply at the end of 2008 and the pace of investment growth more than halved due to the credit crunch, data showed on Thursday, underpinning the case for further cuts in interest rates. One economist went as far as to say that the data showed Poland could be heading for a technical recession in the first quarter of this year but the data still showed the economy and investment growing strongly in annual terms. Statistics office data showed GDP grew 4.8 percent in the whole of last year, a touch below expectations. Investment growth slowed to 7.9 percent from 17.6 percent in 2007. Domestic demand rose 4.8 percent and private consumption 5.4 percent. Analysts in a Reuters poll had forecast growth last year to reach 4.9 percent and expected 2009 expansion at 2 percent. The flash estimate gives only broad figures for the whole year, with fourth quarter data coming later. 'The figures are a touch below expectations and indicate that growth in the fourth quarter was below 3 percent. What's important is that the slowdown especially hit investments,' said Piotr Kalisz chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in Warsaw. 'We suspect that in the fourth quarter GDP fell quarter on quarter. Because this trend will continue at the beginning of 2009 we can assume that Poland will enter a technical recession, or two quarters of contraction.' RECESSION RESISTANCE The European Union's largest ex-communist economy has boomed since it joined the bloc in 2004, growing at its fastest rate in almost a decade in 2007 and barely faltering until the global financial crisis deepened in September. But the crisis has taken its toll since, making it harder for companies and ordinary Poles to get access to credit and hammering demand for Polish exports through a recession in the euro zone, the country's biggest trade partner. Poland's central bank head sees Poland as one of the few countries in the region that will show any economic expansion this year with growth expected to reach up to 2 percent. 'We will be most likely one of the two countries in the region to have economic growth (this year) between zero and 2 percent, at least these are official forecasts at the moment,' Skrzypek told TVN CNBC news channel on Thursday. The 2009 budget bill envisages Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth at 3.7 percent, but officials said this week that the government's worst case scenario is now 1.7 percent. Most analysts have seen Poland as one of the few European economies that may be able to avoid recession in 2009 thanks to internal demand still fuelled by last year's double-digit wage growth and falls in unemployment levels. Its central bank has also cut interest rates by a total of 175 basis points since November, citing the slowing economy and a retreat of any concerns over inflation. Its main interest rate now stands at 4.25 percent after the 10-strong panel slashed borrowing costs by 75 basis points on Tuesday. Analysts expect cuts to continue. 'The data ... supports the case for more interest rate cuts. We expect the central bank to cut again in February -- by 50 basis points,' said Marta Petka-Zagajewska economist at Raiffeisen Bank Polska in Warsaw. Miroslaw Pietrewicz, who has generally favoured a looser monetary policy and is widely seen as one of the staunchest doves on the MPC, told Reuters the 2008 growth was 'decent' but that he still advocated 'decisive and significant rate cuts'.  
