By Ayla Jean Yackley and Alexandra Hudson  ISTANBUL, Jan 14 (Reuters) - Turkish stocks fell more than 4 percent on Wednesday as markets slumped across Europe on news of weaker-than-expected U.S. December retail sales and fresh concerns about the health of banks' balance sheets.   The main ISE 100 index closed down 4.03 percent to 25,055.71 points, after closing up 1.56 percent the previous day. Istanbul stocks underperformed the MSCI index of emerging market shares which weakened only 1.04 percent, but reflected a 3.26 percent loss in Europe's leading 300 companies .  Turkish stocks, which halved in value during 2008, have weakened 6.4 percent over the last 5 days of trading as global recession fears take hold. 'Inevitably Turkey is falling with global markets. We have seen quite a significant sell-off due to bad news on the global economy,' said Emre Tezmen, managing director of Tera Securities.  Mahmut Kaya, head of research at Garanti Invest said: 'For stocks the key driver is growth, and all the indicators at the moment are suggesting a contraction, and a contraction which is getting deeper.' Weighing on the index was a 5 percent decline in Turkish banking stocks, driven by a 7.3 percent slump in Akbank to 4.08 lira after partial owner Citigroup was seen making asset sales to raise capital. The fall 'is a reflection of some investors' concerns that Akbank could be included in Citibank's asset sales,' said Bulent Sengonul, an analyst at Ekspres Invest. 'I don't think selling Akbank is a priority for Citibank as it's not that big and Citibank has said it wants to say in higher-yielding emerging markets.' Across Europe financials fell on fears over banks' balance sheets and news British bank Barclays would cut some 2,000 jobs.  The lira closed at 1.6015 to the dollar, down from Tuesday's close of 1.5950, and traded even weaker in Thursday-dated trade at 1.6140.  However Turkey's new benchmark bond strengthened ahead of the Central bank's rate-setting meeting on Thursday, when it is expected to reduce its key interest rate by a full percentage point to 14.00 percent to stave off a steep economic slow-down.  The yield on the busiest Nov. 3, 2010, bond traded at 15.69 percent, compared with an average yield of 16.16 percent at the Treasury's auction on Tuesday. It has held three auctions this week, raising a total 2.91 billion lira. 'On the bond front, the Treasury had its best week in some time, with three successful auctions in terms of demand and the yields,' an Istanbul trader said. 'Yields are continuing to track downward ahead of the central bank's rate decision.' (Additional reporting by Nevzat Devranoglu; Editing by Mike Peacock/Victoria Main) Keywords: MARKETS TURKEY/  (ayla.yackley@reuters.com; +90 212 350 7053; Reuters Messaging: ayla.yackley.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT
