By Jan Strupczewski   BRUSSELS, Jan 6 (Reuters) - Euro zone inflation plunged more than expected to a 26-month low in December as the economy slowed sharply, data showed on Tuesday, knocking back the euro on expectations of a deep ECB rate cut next week.   The European Union's statistics office Eurostat said inflation in the 15 countries using the euro in December was 1.6 percent year-on-year, down from 2.1 percent in November and well below the ECB target of just under 2 percent.   Economists polled by Reuters had expected a decline to 1.8 percent, and the lower number added to the case for a cut in interest rates to keep price growth from diving beneath the European Central Bank's target of below but near 2-percent.   The euro plunged against the dollar to $1.3347 from $1.3440 in response to the data.   ECB Governing Council member Vitor Constancio said in Lisbon the bank should make a pre-emptive cut in interest rates to avoid inflation falling too far below 2 percent, but noted deflation was not on the horizon for Europe. 'Any risk of inflation consolidating far below this value (2 percent) should be contained pre-emptively with interest rate reductions,' Constancio told journalists.   ECB rate cut expectations were also boosted by data showing the euro zone private sector services economy shrank sharply in December and firms cut more jobs than expected, pointing to a deep recession lasting for a good part of 2009.   The euro zone services sector generates some two thirds of the single currency area's gross domestic product and the PMI index, which covers banks to retail stores, fell to a new low in its 10-year history. 'With euro zone consumer price inflation falling below the ECB's target level, and the purchasing managers' survey pointing to record contraction in service sector activity, there is a compelling case for the ECB to cut interest rates significantly further,' said Howard Archer, economist at Global Insight.   The ECB meets to discuss rates on Jan. 15. Markets have priced in a 50 basis point cut from the current 2.5 percent, with some investors betting on a 75 basis point move after the last such reduction in December.   A Reuters poll of 70 economists taken Dec. 30-Jan. 6 showed showed 55 of them expected an ECB rate cut on Jan. 15, while fifteen said no move was the most likely outcome.   Forty-six economists forecast a 50 basis point move, and nine said the ECB would cut by just 25 basis points.   The bank has cut rates by 175 basis points since October as inflation decelerated rapidly from a July peak of 4.0 percent along with a sharply slowing economy and falling oil prices. 'It makes it even more likely for the ECB to cut interest rates further in the next few months, starting in January and going to 1.5 percent in March,' said Holger Schmieding, co-head of Europe economics at Bank of America.   ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet has declined to give any firm indication on whether such rate cut bets are justified.   But the bank's Vice-President Lucas Papademos said on Sunday that more rate cuts may be needed to shield the euro zone economy and make sure inflation did not fall too far, stressing that deflation would be kept at bay. 'The balance of news from Europe is so poor that the market is perceiving that the ECB is behind the curve (on rates),' said Adam Cole, global head of currency strategy at RBC in London.   The December inflation estimate does not contain a monthly figure or a detailed breakdown, but economists said the fall stemmed mainly from a sharp drop in oil prices compared to the same period of 2007.   Separate data from the euro zone's biggest economy Germany last week and the third and fourth biggest economies Italy and Spain showed inflation there falling more than expected in December, mainly on falling fuel, food and commodity prices.   (Additional reporting by Huw Jones and Marcin Grajewski in Brussels and Sergio Goncalves and Shrikesh Laxmidas in Lisbon)   (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski, editing by Mike Peacock/Patrick Graham) Keywords: EUROZONE ECONOMY/   (jan.strupczewski@reuters.com; +32-2-287 6837; Reuters messaging: jan.strupczewski.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
