MARKETS-FOREX (UPDATE 5): * Dollar rises vs euro after ECB rate cut  * ECB cuts rates by 50 bps to 2.0 percent, as expected  * Risk aversion rises amid renewed concerns on U.S. banks  (Recasts, updates prices, adds comment, changes byline, changes dateline, previous LONDON)  NEW YORK (Reuters) - The dollar rose against the euro Thursday after the European Central Bank cut its interest rates as expected, with the greenback also getting safe-haven bids on renewed concerns about the health of U.S. banks.  Investors bet the ECB will reduce rates further following Thursday's half a percentage point move, despite mixed signals from ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet over the timing of the next cut.  News of a push by Bank of America  (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people )  for more government aid added to worries about mounting credit losses in the financial sector, depressing investor appetite for risk and helping push the dollar higher.  'As problems in the U.S. financial markets elevate we are seeing again risk aversion-mode in currency trading. And in that mode, the dollar benefits,' said Jessica Hoversen, a fixed income and currency analyst at MF Global Ltd. in Chicago.  'On top of that, there's no doubt the ECB is behind the curve, which does not help the euro.'  The euro rallied briefly after Trichet said at a press conference following the rate cut decision that the next important meeting is in March, stoking speculation the ECB would pause in February..  In mid-morning trading in New York, the euro fell to a five-week low of $1.3048 according to Reuters data. It last traded down 0.8 percent at $1.3058.  The euro also dropped to a six-week low versus the yen, which also benefited from rising risk aversion, and traded as low as 116.23 yen. It last traded around 117.10.  The dollar rose 0.2 percent against the yen to 89.22.  The ECB, which has been seen by many investors as slow to lower borrowing costs, took benchmark interest rates to 2.0 percent from 2.5 percent, matching its lowest-ever rate as inflation slows and recession spreads.  Greg Salvaggio, vice president of trading at Tempus Consulting in Washington, said the euro bounced around because Trichet's talk of both inflation and growth risks was sending mixed signals to investors.  Inflation fears in particular seem misplaced, he said, when economic data is deteriorating and several euro-zone countries have either seen their credit ratings cut or are at risk for future cuts.  'Markets are wondering what Trichet is saying? Is he living in a bubble? I think it tarnishes his credibility a bit. The British and the U.S. have thrown the kitchen sink at the problem, but it seems he's not willing to do what's necessary.'  He said the ECB's 'inflexible stance' will keep the euro under pressure over the medium term. (Reporting by Steven C. Johnson and Vivianne Rodrigues; Editing by Tom Hals)  Copyright 2009 Reuters, Click for Restriction
