$434m  10:46am   10:38am   KBR capital raising better than expected  10:16am   Stocks dip from opening rally  10:03am   Minemakers sign rail link deal  09:21am   Range in trading halt, waits on election  08:24am   Market opens in positive territory  08:18am   Dollar opens higher on US unit weakness  06:39am   US stocks shake off weak data  06:39am   Today's Business Headlines  Australians are more confident investing in property than in shares during 2009, a survey says.  Forty per cent of respondents said their priority in 2009 is to buy property, an online survey by mortgage broker Loan Market Group revealed.  Loan Market Group executive director, John Kolenda, said measures from policymakers to boost the flagging economy and softer property prices have made the housing market more attractive for investors.  Since September, the Reserve Bank of Australia has slashed the cash rate by three percentage points to a seven-year low 4.25 per cent.  Many market economists are forecasting the central bank to cut the cash rate to at least 3 per cent by June, 2009.  And the federal government's increase in the first home owner's grant is set to stimulate the property market.  'It's (the cash rate) expected to go lower, and that is obviously encouraging to prospective property buyers,' Mr Kolenda said.  'The increase in the first home owners grant to $14,000 and to $21,000 for buying or building a new home will expire on June 30 this year.  'That is also likely to have a significant impact on the property market.'  The housing sector is subdued, with average house prices across the capital cities falling 1.8 per cent in the September quarter after a 0.2 per cent decline the three months before.  And new home sales fell 1.1 per cent in November, while building approvals dropped 12.8 per cent in the same month.  Only 6 per cent of those surveyed said they would invest in shares, following the Australian All Ordinaries index falling 43 per cent in 2008.  Mr Kolenda said a third of the survey said clearing credit card debt was their priority during 2009, Mr Kolenda said.  'There are many people who, after Christmas, have huge debts on credit cards,' Mr Kolenda said.  'It is important to bear in mind that your home loan isn't the only interest rate you might be able to negotiate.  'People should check the interest rate they are paying on their card, talk to their lender or broker and see if they can get a better rate and if not, look elsewhere.'  Mortgage refinancing was picked by 9 per cent of respondents.  Eight per cent said they hoped to 'weather' the financial downturn in 2009, while two per cent of respondents were philanthropic by donating to charity as their priority.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
