WORKERS are being encouraged to cut their hours rather than lose their jobs as the economic downturn hits company profits.  The number of people working less than 35 hours a week rose 43,000 in December and the number of full-time jobs dropped by 44,000.   And the employment outlook is predicted to worsen over coming months, with Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard saying the Government expects the jobless rate to rise from its December level of 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent by the middle of the year. 'What these figures are telling us is that the global financial crisis has resulted in job losses in this country,' Ms Gillard said. Some private-sector economists believe unemployment could get much worse, hitting 7 per cent by the end of this year.   Deutsche Bank chief economist Tony Meer, who is among those who believe recession will raise the number of unemployed to this level, said the outlook would be much worse were it not for the flexibility in the labour force. 'Employers are using the more flexible labour market that has resulted from two decades of reform to hoard labour as production is cut.' he said. 'If continued, this will moderate the extent of the current recession, so we certainly hope corporate Australia continues in the practice, and that organised labour accept that working reduced hours is far superior to working no hours at all.' Since the middle of last year, the number of full-time positions has dropped by 21,600, while the number of people working part-time or reduced hours has increased by 57,400.   Mr Meer said it was normal in recessions for the reduction in the number of hours worked to be cut back more savagely than the number of people in jobs.   He said that although the current unemployment rate of 4.5per cent was low by historic standards, it was well above the low point of 3.9 per cent reached in February last year.   The December jobs figures show increasing numbers of people without work are abandoning the search, with the number of people either in work or looking for a job falling from the high of 65.5per cent reached in April to 65 per cent last month.   That is equivalent to about 85,000 people dropping out of the workforce.   Although the latest official jobs figures show the outlook for employment is deteriorating, the net 1200 positions lost in December is far better than in any other developed country.   OECD figures issued earlier this week show the average level of unemployment in the developed world has risen from 6 per cent to 6.5 per cent since June.   ABN-Amro chief economist Kieran Davies said Australia may be following the pattern of the US, where unemployment was slow to rise in the early days of the downturn, increasing only from 4.9 per cent in December 2007, when the US officially entered recession, to 5 per cent by April. It has since jumped to 7.2 per cent. 'It is possible that with the skill shortage being so intense over the past few years that employers are more conservative when it comes to decisions to let people go,' Mr Davies said. However, he said all the indicators of future trends in the jobs market showed the outlook was getting worse.   The number of internet job advertisements has dropped by 29per cent since early this year, while the number of newspaper advertisements has halved.   The National Australia Bank's survey of hiring intentions shows that 17 per cent more firms are planning to reduce their labour force than increase it. This level of cutback has only occurred previously during recessions.   Unemployment rates are still lowest in the resource states of Western Australia and Queensland, despite the rapidly weakening mining, housing and retail industries in those states.   The 2.8 per cent jobless figure in Western Australia is only just above its all-time low, and Queensland's unemployment, which stands at 3.9 per cent, has been below 4 per cent for almost two years.   Unemployment remains highest in NSW at 5.2 per cent and South Australia (5.3 per cent). It is 4.6 per cent in Victoria and 4.7 per cent in Tasmania.
