The Korean currency weakened almost W100 against the U.S. dollar in just 15 days from W1,259.5 at the end of last year to W1,358 on Friday. The spread on forex stabilization bonds, an index measuring Koreas external credit rating, has risen for the past six days to 3.86 percent. The foreign exchange market is showing signs of uncertainty at the start of the year.   This is largely because banks in advanced countries posted major losses in the fourth quarter of 2008, triggering uncertainties in global markets. Citigroup reported US$8.3 billion in losses, its fifth consecutive quarter in deficit. The Bank of America, which acquired Merrill Lynch last year, posted $1.8 billion losses, while Deutsche Bank, Germanys largest bank, was down $6.3 billion. Japans top bank Mitsubishi UFJ is expected to post its first-ever losses as it writes off 288 billion yen of its assets as losses. And there are calculations showing that HSBC, Europes largest bank, is also facing a cash shortage.   Banks previously thought relatively safe are being sucked into the global financial crisis. Inter-bank loans, which showed signs of improving at the end of last year, have once again shrunk while the U.S. dollar is strengthening. As the financial crisis spreads to real economies, corporate losses are snowballing and this is leading to falling earnings at banks, exacerbating financial uncertainties.   The Korean government has been confident that it had overcome a dollar shortage after forming currency swap agreements worth $90 billion with the United States, Japan and China. The Korean currency, which weakened to W1,500 against the dollar, strengthened back to the W1,200 level, while the spread on forex stabilization bonds fell from 7.9 percent to 3.5 percent, signaling the easing of dollar shortage fears.   But as seen by the volatile foreign currency market this year, there is a long way to go before we can stop worrying. Depending on the flow of global financial markets, fears over a dollar shortage can resurface at any time. At a conference of U.S. economists early this year, it was claimed that the financial crisis was not even half-way over, while several devastating tempests lie ahead.   The government must not loosen the reigns of its management of foreign currency. The scale of currency swap agreements must be expanded and their duration extended. State-run financial institutions -- Korea Development Bank, the Export-Import Bank of Korea -- or the government itself should issue bonds overseas to bring in dollars. Corporate restructuring should be sped up, while commercial banks should rush to bolster their capital reserves and stamp out uncertainties in domestic financial markets. ( ) 
