With the downturn in the economy, layoffs are coming fast and furious, says the Memphis attorney, managing partner of Donati Law Firm LLP. Along with the blue-collar layoffs come the letting-go of white collar employees who often receive more than a pink slip and an invitation to the unemployment line.  Those management folks are recipients of severance packages that sometimes arent as sweet as they could be, says Donati; he is regularly asked by employees being terminated to review separation proposals, advising on them as needed.  Donati has been at it a long time and says the process has changed greatly in the past several decades: Back in the 1982-1983 Reagan recession, (employers) would call you in and say, You have 30 minutes to look at this and sign it. Donati says many departing employees left money, benefits and other goodies on the table, unaware that they could have negotiated better deals had they more time to assess offerings. Numerous laws have been passed since the Reagan years that protect workers from abusive treatment upon departure.  The Older Workers Benefits Protection Act, says Donati, is one of those that gives time to seek legal advice. He explains that additional money is not always a lacking area; it can be in stock options, pension issues, continued health care benefits and myriad other considerations such as mandatory non-compete clauses. Theyre coming to us, but most of the time they end up accepting whats on the table, Donati says. At least now they can rationally explore their options. Are there any particular industries Donati is seeing more than others? We see the entire spectrum, he says. But we have been seeing more in the financial sector lately and also some increase in telecommunications. Its really widespread. Before now, you rarely saw anyone from a bank. But as in most cases, legal or otherwise, there are usually two sides to the story. While Donatis practice is exclusively aimed at the employee, some practices focus on providing defense for employers being sued for alleged workplace violations.  Maurice Wexler, shareholder in Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell &amp;amp; Berkowitz PC, is one of those: Were busy as hell, he declares. Wexler is currently focusing mainly on one particular case. Wexler doesnt name the firm being sued by a group of its employers under the Fair Labor Standards Act, but says it does have a Tennessee presence and in other areas of the nation. And it could potentially involve a lot of money.  The group, according to its claim, was not paid for the hours its members worked: Theres a lot going on in that arena, says Wexler. There has been an uptick in these FLSA cases in the last three to five years. Those cases are coming up, according to Wexler, in the restaurant and fast-food industries as servers are seeking overtime wages for working more than 40 hours per week and not being properly remunerated. Hes also seeing more cases in the retail and manufacturing sectors.  In addition, Wexler has noticed an upswing in the number of retaliation cases being filed. These are suits filed by employees who have reported their respective employers for violations of statutes that can range from environmental crimes to fraud to less egregious civil matters.  The employers then reportedly retaliate against them by firing or demotion.  Jim Waide of Tupelo, Miss., is one of the premier plaintiffs workplace attorneys in the region. Four of his cases have been accepted by the U.S. Supreme Court; two were argued orally in front of the court and all were victories.  He points to Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products as one of the most significant. The court found for the 57-year-old plaintiff based on the Columbus, Miss., firms violation of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. He was terminated because of his age rather than his job performance, as Sanderson had claimed.  Waide is currently representing several black Tupelo police officers who are suing the department for racially prejudiced treatment in their workplace.
