A worker cleans a seat in Senate chambers.  Photograph by : Chris Wattie/Reuters  OTTAWA - Conservative insiders were speculating on Thursday about who Prime Minister Stephen Harper might appoint to the Senate. There are 18 vacancies and, according to leaks to several media outlets this week, Mr. Harper will select as many senators as possible before Christmas to keep the seats out of the reach of a Liberal-NDP coalition.  The Prime Minister wants an elected senate but has to fill the vacancies. He is expected to appoint Conservatives who share his views on senate reform. There are vacancies in Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, British Columbia, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, Prince Edward Island, Yukon and Saskatchewan. It is a plum position that comes with a $130,000 salary and a guaranteed job until the age of 75.  For an institution that is widely derided, there is a long line-up of people wanting into the Upper Chamber. A number of Conservatives have made it known they want a seat and have been lobbying hard for a position.  Here are some of the names being talked about, though not all of them seriously.  John Reynolds  The former Conservative MP was named by several sources yesterday. He is a Harper loyalist and has been a party fixer for years -- he worked on Mr. Harpers leadership campaign, was a Conservative co-chair when Mr. Harper was elected Prime Minister, and his wife is also a good friend of Laureen Harper. He served in the British Columbia government in a number of senior roles and was a B.C. MP. He was the Conservative House Leader when the party was in Opposition. He was also leader of the now-defunct Canadian Alliance at one stage.  Gary Filmon  The former Manitoba Conservative Premier was named as a possible contender for the job of Ambassador to the United States when Mr. Harper came into office. Since leaving politics, he has served on the high profile Security Intelligence Review Committee, which was commissioned by the British Columbia government to do a survey of forest fires and has sat on a number of corporate and private boards. He might be happy where he is and may not be interested.  Don Cherry  The CBC broadcaster and Hockey Night in Canada legend has been named, but is not thought to be a serious choice, however much Mr. Harper loves hockey. As one Conservative joked yesterday. Cherry - I would love it, but a meteor will hit the Hill before that happens. The last two weeks in politics, though, suggest anything is possible these days.  Fabian Manning  The former member from Avalon, Newfoundland, is said to be lobbying hard for the Newfoundland and Labrador position. He was elected in 2006 but lost in the last election. He defended Mr. Harpers budget when he was at war with Newfoundland Premier Danny Williams and would be happy to go after Mr. Williams from the Senate.  Loyola Hearn  The former fisheries minister under Mr. Harper has been named as another possible Newfoundland senator. He probably wouldnt turn it down, sources say.  Vic Young  The former CEO of Fisheries Products International would be an alternate choice from Newfoundland. The Prime Minister likes him, say sources.  Leo Dugay  The former MP from Manitoba and former chief of staff to a foreign minister is scratching at the door, according to one government source. He was named a Member of the Order of the Buffalo Hunt, Manitobas highest civilian honour, and was named to the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame.  Sandra Buckler  The former director of communications for Mr. Harper was widely unpopular with the parliamentary press gallery reporters but was extremely loyal to the Prime Minister. One insider said, She has not hidden her desire for appointment. She could fill an Ontario or Nova Scotia seat and Mr. Harper will want to appoint some women. As some pointed out, Jim Munson, Jean Chretiens former director of communications, landed in the Senate, so why not her?  Monte Solberg  The popular former MP and Cabinet Minister did not run in the last election and could be considered for the Senate.  Michael Wilson  The Ambassador to the United States is a former cabinet minister from the Brian Mulroney era and is already in an important job. He is well regarded in the Harper household. His name has circulated in the event the government wants to make a change when Barack Obama takes office at the end of January.  Barbara McDougall  The former Conservative MP held a number of cabinet posts and went on to be an advisor to a Toronto law firm, as well as director on a number of boards. She is woman and has solid experience but theres a downside: She backed Belinda Stronach in the partys leadership race and is a Red Tory.  Doug Finley  He runs the Conservative war room and could be rewarded for his loyalty. But he is also needed if there is another election. His name has come up in Conservative circles.  Irving Gerstein  He raises the partys money as Chair of the Conservative Fund and his name has be raised a lot in connection to Senate appointments - possibly because he has been lobbying hard for an Ontario seat.  Stanley Hartt  He has been lobbying a lot, say sources. He is Chair of Citibank Canada, former chief of staff to Brian Mulroney and is very well connected.  Patricia Mella  The leader of the Progressive Conservatives in Prince Edward Island before Pat Binns could be a contender for a PEI seat.  Stephen Greene  He is a longtime Reform/Alliance supporter and a friend of Mr. Harper. He is younger than most senators, which gives him an advantage. He could fill a Nova Scotia seat.  Bill Black  The former CEO of Maritime Life is already a Tory appointee with the Bank of Canada. He ran in the Nova Scotia leadership race and works for Premier Rodney MacDonald. He could take a seat for his province.  Bernard Lord  The former premier could be a popular choice for senator from New Brunswick.  Jacques Menard  He is a major businessman in Montreal and his name has come up in some circles in the past as a potential leadership candidate. He is chair of BMO Nesbitt Burns and has been an executive with a number of companies and organizations. His name has been floated for a possible Quebec senate seat.  Joe Oliver  The former Conservative candidate in Torontos Eglington-Lawrence riding could be considered, some say.  Bob Runciman, Norm Sterling or John Tory -- all to save John Tory  The Ontario Conservative Leader could be rescued from his tenuous hold on power and given a spot in the Senate. Alternatively, one of a handful of Ontario MPPs could be put in the Senate, freeing up a safe seat for Mr. Tory. They include Bob Runciman and Norm Sterling. Several MPPs have been pressured to step down for Mr. Tory. Mr. Runciman is closest to the Harper inner circle among the names being floated and is very interested in being a senator. The senate is John Torys last chance, noted one person well-connnected in the Conservative party.  
