lion merger  14:00pm   Indigenous charity receives $10m boost  13:52pm   Fairfax appoints McCarthy as CEO  13:50pm   Construction starts on WA power station  13:19pm   Red tape weighs on SMEs: research  13:07pm   ACCC approves BankWest sale  12:31pm   11:55am   Mincor halts production, cuts costs  11:04am   Rate cuts boost home loans: economists  Fortescue Metals Group and its contractors at a railway construction camp in the Pilbara have pleaded not guilty to causing the death of two workers during a cyclone.  Lawyers for eight companies, including FMG, pleaded not guilty in the Perth Magistrates Court today to 49 charges including failing to: provide a safe workplace; properly instruct and train workers and design and build cyclone proof buildings.  The construction camp, 100km south of Port Hedland, was part of a multi-billion dollar development by FMG when the cyclone hit in March 2007.  Perth mother of two, Debra Till, 47, a kitchenhand for the property and maintenance services company Spotless P&amp;amp;F Pty Ltd, was killed.  Four companies including her employer face charges in relation to her death.  Craig Allan Raabe, 42, of Gympie in Queensland, an employee of Len Buckeridge's BGC Contracting, died from severe head injuries.  After the event, unions voiced concerns that the camp was not adequately prepared for the category four cyclone.  FMG's billionaire chief executive Andrew Forrest defended the company's decision not to evacuate workers before the cyclone and also claimed the portable homes, called dongas, were cyclone proof.  Other companies facing charges in court today were WorleyParsons Services, Pilbara Infrastructure, Spotless Services, Spunbrood Pty Ltd and Laing O'Rourke.  The charges also relate to injuries caused to several other workers and were laid after initial investigations by Worksafe in WA.  A month after the cyclone, Worksafe issued a safety bulletin to mining companies urging them to apply extreme caution when exposing workers to cyclone conditions.  The matters will be listed for a trial date in February next year.  Up to 39 witnesses are expected to be called to give evidence.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
