The actions of Sydney shoppers who tackled a suspected bank robber could have gone ''horribly wrong'' and should not be repeated, NSW's top police officer says.  Tahonu Soatini, 20, of Hassell Grove in Sydney's west, was pulled to the ground by members of the public on Monday after egedly robbing a bank at Plumpton. Police ege he took two women hostage and stole $54,600 from the Commonwealth Bank at Plumpton Marketplace, claiming to be armed with a gun which turned out to be a torch.  He was subsequently charged with aggravated robbery, armed robbery, affray and taking a bank employee hostage.  NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione said yesterday while the people who apprehended Soatini were to be congratulated, their heroic act should not be repeated.  ''This event was one that led to a good outcome. It could have been horrible,'' Mr Scipione said.  ''The reality is ... you don't quite know whether an offender in a situation like this is armed.  ''If the person is armed and if that particular person decides to shoot or to injure a member of the public because they've intervened, then it becomes a double tragedy.''  Mr Scipione urged the public to always phone police before stepping in themselves.  ''Our advice always is ... c the police,'' he said.  ''Let the police come down and do what the police do well and that's intervene in these rey dangerous situations.''  In Sydney's Central Local Court earlier yesterday, a Legal Aid solicitor representing Soatini did not apply for bail and it was formy refused by Magistrate Christopher Longley.  Soatini will now spend the next two months behind bars, as his case was adjourned until February 27.  Before leaving the court's dock yesterday, Soatini, wearing a white zip-up suit, wanted to speak to the magistrate.  ''I want to show my respect for him,'' Soatini could be heard to say from the gery of the court, as he clasped his hands in a prayer-like motion.  He was also heard to ask if he could be brought fresh clothes. Bureau of Statistics records show a 26 per cent decline in robberies in NSW in the past year. AAP 
