In an explicit criticism of the approach to the Somali Piracy Crisis that prevailed among the UN Security Council member states, Ecoterra makes clear that the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1851' will now allow any country represented in the UN to violate the sovereignty of Somalia and wage war against fictitious pirates or what else falls into their individual target scheme'. As the criticism is part of the 81st Press Release Update, I republish it integrally.  Ecoterra Intl. - Stay Calm &amp;amp; Solve it Peaceful &amp;amp; Fast !  Ecoterra International  Update &amp;amp; Media Release on the stand-off concerning the Ukrainian weapons-ship hi-jacked by Somali pirates.  We also can make sea-piracy in Somalia an issue of the past - with empathy and strength and through coastal and marine development as well as protection!  New EA Seafarers Assistance Programme Emergency Helpline: +254-738-497979  East African Seafarers Assistance Programme - Media Officer: +254-733-385868  Day 84 - 1988 hours into the FAINA Crisis - Update Summary  Efforts for a peaceful release continued, but the now over two-and-a-half months long stand-off concerning Ukrainian MV FAINA is not yet solved finally, though intensive negotiations have continued.  Once again the negotiators on the side of the owner of the vessel seem to not have found the right way to make this problem go away.  Ecoterra Intl. renewed it's call to solve the FAINA and the SIRIUS STAR cases with first priority and peaceful in order to avert a human and environmental disasters at the Somali coast. Anybody encouraging hot-headed and concerning such difficult situations inexperienced and untrained gunmen to try an attempt of a military solution must be held responsible for the surely resulting disaster.  Clearing-house:  News from other abducted ships ------  MV BOSPHORUS PRODIGY, owner-managed by the Istanbul-based Isko Marine Company, has been seized by pirates Tuesday in the Gulf of Aden, was confirmed by the U.S. Navy. The 1985 built general cargo / container-ship with a gross-tonnage of 3,062 runs under flag of convenience from Antigua-Barbuda and has as registered owner there a fronting company called NAVI BLUE. The actual composition of the usually 11-men crew has not yet been released by the Turkish owner. The company usually uses Turkish and Ukrainian seafarers. Problem is that the seamen on this ship do not have an ITF approved collective bargaining agreement (CBA), which would secure their rights. The Turkish cargo ship was sea-jacked near the Yemen coast by a gang of pirates of unknown origin who fired automatic weapons from two speed boats.  In Paris, petroleum company Total spokesman Kevin Church said that the tugboat and a barge, which were hijacked yesterday together, were not owned by Total, but belong to a subcontractor. The barge is not believed to be carrying oil. The tug with 11 crew on board and the barge were abducted by unknown gunmen.  A Chinese vessel, ZHEN HUA (4), with 30 all-Chinese-crew was attacked in the Gulf of Aden. The crew locked themselves in and radioed for help. Naval forces then chased the attackers away. Non of the crew is said to have been hurt in the 5 hours long incident. Backed up by a coalition warship and helicopters the pirate attack was foiled in a dramatic high-seas encounter off the coast of Somalia  Local reports about a sea-jacking of a possibly French yacht with private sailors on board could not yet be confirmed.  This sums up to at least three abductions of commercial vessels confirmed for the 16/17th December 2008, just a day after the EU NAFVOR mission ATALANTA took over from NATO.  Pirates have attacked three other vessels in the Gulf of Aden in the past week, the piracy reporting centre in Kuala Lumpur stated. A Singapore tanker, an Italian cargo ship and a Greek ship escaped pirates last week after coalition forces deployed a helicopter.  With the latest captures and releases now at least 18 foreign vessels with a total of at least 351 crew members (of which 91 are Filipinos) are held in Somali waters and are monitored on our actual case-list, while several other cases of ships, which were observed off the coast of Somalia and have been reported or had reportedly disappeared without trace or information, are still being followed. Over 131 incidences (including attempted attacks, averted attacks and successful sea-jackings) have been recorded to far for 2008 with until today 58 factual sea-jacking cases (incl. the presently held 18). Several other vessels with unclear fate (not in the actual count), who were reported missing over the last ten years in this area, are still kept on our watch-list, though in some cases it is presumed that they sunk due to bad weather or being unfit to sail. In the last four years, 22 missing ships have been traced back with different names, flags and superstructures.  Other related news -------  UN Resolution 1851  WTN - 16th December 2008  As predicted earlier, the homo-Cro-Magnon approach as the only possibility to respond for unwise people has once again manifested itself in the United Nations Security council Resolution 1851, which will now allow any country represented in the UN to violate the sovereignty of Somalia and wage war against fictitious pirates or what else falls into their individual target scheme. The United Nations Security Council on Tuesday adopted its third resolution of the year and the fifth in a row authorizing states to take enhanced and 'robust action', and coordinate to fight whatever they see as piracy of Somalia or related to it.  The UN Security Council unanimously thereby adopted a resolution, which for the first time is authorizing international land operations against audacious, armed pirates sheltering in Somalia. The text, co-sponsored by Belgium, France, Greece, Liberia and South Korea, gives those nations already involved in battling pirates off Somalia a one-year mandate to act against the brigands inside the country. Resolution 1851 authorizes the states to 'take all necessary measures that are appropriate in Somalia' to suppress 'acts of piracy and armed robbery at sea'.  To overcome objections from countries such as Indonesia an earlier reference in the text to 'ashore' or 'including in its (Somalia) airspace' was dropped. Indonesia had earlier rejected the U.S. proposal for UN authorization to pursue pirates ashore in Somalia, citing its implications for Indonesia and key straits within its territory, a Indonesian Foreign Ministry official said. Although the proposal applies solely to Somalia, Arief Havas Oegroseno, the ministry's director general for legal and international treaties, said the draft resolution was loosely worded, raising fears it could be generalized in future for application in other jurisdictions. He argued this scenario could affect Indonesia, which manages three of the world's 13 major straits -- the Malacca, Lombok and Sunda straits.  The resolution in its adopted text calls for an 'international cooperation mechanism to act as a common point between and among states, regional and international organizations' and gives states a one year mandate to take 'all necessary measures that are appropriate in Somalia' to suppress 'acts of piracy and armed robbery at sea' to combat piracy and armed robbery at sea off the Somali coast. Since it adopted the first resolution earlier this year, pirates have seized more and larger ships.  The Pentagon already cautioned that there were 'practical challenges' to taking action against pirates inside Somalia despite having the authority to do so under a new US Security Council resolution. 'We welcome the passing of the resolution. We will continue to work with our allies and partners to address this troublesome problem', said Bryan Whitman, a Pentagon spokesman. But he pointed out that US Defense Secretary Robert Gates had raised 'some of the practical challenges associated with combating this illegal activity' and said that better intelligence was needed for actions to be taken against pirate camps inside Somalia. Vice Admiral Bill Gortney, the US Fifth Fleet commander, warned that direct attacks on pirate camps carry a high risk of civilian casualties. 'I see people trying to look for an easy military solution to a problem that demands a non-kinetic solution', he told reporters. 'If you are going to do kinetic strikes into the pirate camps the positive ID and the collateral damage cannot be overestimated. It's very difficult. They are irregulars, they don't wear uniforms', he said. The U.S. Navy, under the leadership of U.S. Secretary Donald Winters, has been trying to become even more tech-savvy, while dealing with Somali pirates. Concerning the U.S. Navy's role in the African piracy issue Winters, who doesn't expect to hold that post for much longer, stated: 'Our hope is to deter piracy', and added: 'it's an evolving theater'. But he also envisioned: 'our overall object is not just to have a blue Navy, but a brown and green Navy [the face of the Navy beyond the seas]'.  Indonesia's UN Ambassador Marty Natalegawa meanwhile made it clear that 'the fight against piracy and armed robbery off the coast of Somalia needs to be undertaken in full compliance with international law, in particular the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea'.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the council that piracy has become a 'serious threat to security in the area, to seafarers, ships and the delivery of humanitarian aid to Somalia'. 'Piracy is just the tip of the iceberg of problems facing Somalia and it is essential that social and economic solutions should be found to stabilize that country,' Lavrov said.  China's Vice Foreign Minister He Yafei concurred with Lavrov, calling for socio-economic solutions to help Somalia, and he urged the international community to strictly abide by international law and Security Council resolutions. He stated: 'This is an important prerequisite for ...
