SIOUX FALLS, S.D. - The national recession is hitting right during a resurgence of interest in the downtown of South Dakota's largest city.  For the first time in decades, people are returning to Main Avenue to work and live in century-old buildings where John Deere plows were sold, dairy products made and Ford Model T cars serviced. 'I love these old buildings; they have so much soul,' says Jim Mathis. In August, Mathis moved his advertising firm from south Sioux Falls to a building on Main that dates to 1919.  Main Avenue has been transformed from mostly empty warehouses to loft apartments and offices  a new phenomenon in Sioux Falls. Restaurants and nightspots have opened on Main and nearby Phillips Avenue. And developers are counting on that trend continuing, even as economic worries spread through the nation. 'We were inspired in large part by what we saw happening around the country,' including the north side of Chicago, says Rick Gourley, owner and CEO of Gourley Properties.   Gourley and his son, Paul, have renovated two large buildings  one built in 1908 and another in 1910  with a simple model: loft apartments on upper floors; businesses on lower ones. 'We see Main Street as a good investment,' says Paul Gourley. Insulated, a bit   So far, the local economy here has been spared the pounding taken by other metro areas.  The Sioux Falls area had the second-lowest jobless rate in the country in October at 2.5%, according to the latest figure from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The lowest was Bismarck, N.D.  Historically, Sioux Falls experiences national recessions 'but to a much smaller extent,' says Ralph Brown, professor emeritus of economics at the University of South Dakota. Of the 1990-91 recession, Brown says, 'Sioux Falls breezed through that with ease.' Part of the reason, he says, is the city's diverse economy and the ability of its industries  notably health care and credit card operations  to weather downturns.   However, the current economic crisis could slow the steady growth in employment, Brown says. Since the early 1990s, employment has grown an average of 2.8%. In October, growth slowed to 1.6%, he says.   In the early 1980s, the South Dakota Legislature removed caps on usury fees  the rates credit cards can charge customers  in an effort to lure Citibank.  Now, Citibank employs about 3,200 workers. But on Dec. 5, Citi announced it would cut 122 jobs at its Sioux Falls operation as part of its 53,000 job cuts worldwide. 'We might see flat growth in Sioux Falls or maybe even negative growth in terms of employment,' Brown says. But in Mathis' view, 'We may not have the dramatic highs, but we also don't have the dramatic lows.' A new downtown lifestyle   Much of the new development is on the northern edge of town, not far from the falls that gave the city its name.   In 2004, nearby Phillips Avenue  another key commercial street  was extended to connect with the falls of the Big Sioux River at Falls Park. That was a major step in redeveloping this area, says local businesswoman Jennifer Fleming.  Fleming, 37, has had a thing for old buildings ever since she was a 15-year-old 'pushing popcorn' at the old Hollywood Theater downtown in the mid-1980s. When she got wind of plans to demolish the place, she marched into the city planner's office 'full of energy and enthusiasm,' she recalls. 'I said, 'You can't tear down this theater! You can't tear down this theater!' ' The theater was torn down, however, and turned into a parking lot. But Fleming credits then-city-planner Steve Metli with having a vision for transforming downtown into a place where people want to live.   Fleming is on a team of local business people planning the Uptown at Falls Park project, which is being built in stages along North Main Avenue. It uses a pair of old buildings, the Tri-State Creamery Building and the former Dakota Moline Plow Co. Building  now known as Larson Square.   The next phase, The Arches, will be a new complex of 60,000 square feet of commercial space, about six stories high, with about 80 apartments, a fitness center, lounge, roof deck and conference center, Fleming says. It will connect to older buildings.   That project is set to start this spring, Fleming says. So far, the nation's financial crisis has not delayed that schedule.  And a new diversity   Across the street, Qadir Aware's perspective of downtown has been shaped since 1977 when he came to Sioux Falls from Iraq. 'About 20 to 25 years ago, I didn't want to take anybody to Falls Park. It was very dirty, messy, didn't have security,' he recalls. 'Now Falls Park is one of the nicest places we have in Sioux Falls.' An arts center, an observation tower and a restaurant were added to the park, which now hosts several festivals each year.   As executive director of the Multi-Cultural Center at 515 N. Main, Aware knows many of the city's immigrants. The center serves people from 94 nations who speak 124 languages and dialects. An estimated 12,000 to 13,000 refugees and immigrants live in Sioux Falls today, he says.   Many immigrants and refugees are worried about the nation's economy, Aware says. So far, though, 'I do not see a lot of people who come in here and say, 'We lost our job,' or, 'We don't have money to pay our house payment,' or, 'We don't have money to pay the rent,' ' he says. 'Overall, I do not see that.' Contributing: Scott Carlson, Argus Leader Martin works for the Argus Leader in Sioux Falls.   How's Main Street doing?   As a national recession deepens and the federal government bails out Wall Street, Americans are increasingly concerned about the economic health of Main Street. That phrase evokes images of family-owned businesses in small towns. Yet, every city has a Main Street  a major boulevard of commerce in its downtown business district. To find out how these communities are doing, USA TODAY visited five Main Streets in different-size cities around the country.
