The investigation continues into the shooting last month that killed David Herman, 24, outside a Dyersville apartment complex, Dubuque County Attorney Ralph Potter said.  Several search warrants recently made public revealed small details about the case, but much is still unknown. Potter declined to discuss the case, other than to say authorities still are interviewing people and awaiting results from the state crime lab.  On Nov. 29, a Dubuque locksmith, Christopher Leppert, 48, went to Bonjour Estates in Dyersville to change the locks on two apartments. Herman and his girlfriend, Jen Fauver, were moving their belongings after getting evicted from an apartment. Herman and Leppert began to argue, and a fight escalated into the shooting, which left Herman dead.  Leppert, who holds an Iowa permit to carry a weapon, has not been charged in the case and authorities are investigating the use of deadly force. Authorities immediately took the weapon into custody at the scene of the shooting.   Witnesses told investigators that Leppert and Herman exchanged blows during the fight and Herman placed Leppert in a headlock at least one time, according to the search warrants. At some point, Leppert was able to get to his car, where his gun was hidden. Herman, who was not carrying a weapon, jumped into the locksmith's car.   While in or near Leppert's car, Leppert fired at least two shots, witnesses told authorities. One struck Herman in the chest.  A Dyersville Police officer, first to arrive on scene, found a blued .32-caliber   semiautomatic handgun, lying outside Leppert's vehicle near two shell casings, according to court documents.  Authorities said Leppert performed CPR on Herman until emergency officials arrived, and he cooperated with police. He told investigators that he fired the handgun two times at Herman, once while they struggled in the front seat of his vehicle, according to court documents. As he sat in front of investigators, they noticed several blood spatters on his shirt, records state.   The search warrants were executed the day of the shooting, but weren't made public until last week.  A nylon holster, U.S. Bank bag, Leppert's permit for a concealed weapon and two DNA samples from Leppert were seized in search warrants.  Police also applied for a search warrant for 'photographic evidence of Leppert's full body, including but not limited to injuries consistent with a physical fight,' according to a search warrant. 
