THE RESOURCE WARS   Antony Loewenstein on oil, the Middle East and the media   In a striking 2005 essay for the Atlantic, Richard A. Clarke, former chief counter-terrorism adviser on the US National Security Council, painted a picture of an America still at war with terror in 2011. More suicide attacks on the homeland, detention of Muslims, reduced civil liberties and imperial overreach all combined in a vision of a superpower losing control over its own citizens and desperately lashing out at the world. Most ominously, Clarke predicted that, after an Iranian attack on Saudi tankers, world oil prices spiked to $81 a barrel, before falling back to $72 a month later. Just think: this piece was published in early 2005, only four years ago - yet Clarkes fears about an oil spike now seem comically inaccurate.   For America, declared then Texas governor George W. Bush in September 1999, this is the time of unrivalled military power, economic promise and cultural influence.   Less than a decade on, the world is a radically different place. The energy appetites of China and India are insatiable, countries like Nigeria and Kazakhstan find themselves at the centre of a new great game, with authoritarian leaders duchessed by oil-hungry nations, and Venezuelas Hugo Chavez delivers around 10 per cent of Americas imported oil: some 1.4 million barrels per day. The years since September 11 have taught Washington a lesson in humility and the pitfalls of hubris.   Remember media baron Rupert Murdochs confidence before the 2003 Iraq invasion? Aside from praising the moral stance of George W. Bush, Tony Blair and John Howard, his main focus was something less esoteric (though his 170 or more global titles didnt forget to endorse the ethics of the war). The greatest thing to come out of this for the world economy, he argued in February 2003, if you could put it that way, would be US$20 a barrel for oil. Thats bigger than any tax cut in any country.   Murdochs statement signalled the pinnacle of oil arrogance, a belief that resources were endlessly ripe for the taking. Its hard to believe that discussions about energy security were rarely heard in the mainstream before the Iraq war. But today, fear has set in. Politicians must be seen to be doing something, no matter what hypocrisy it involves - like, for instance, Australia planning an emission-trading scheme while still selling dirty coal to China, one of the worlds biggest polluters. The vast majority of corporate journalists are fully signed-up members of the climate change mafia, neither understanding the science behind global warming nor daring to explain the real reasons behind oil scarcity.   Welcome to our new reality. Leading oil expert Richard Heinberg, speaking on ABC TV Lateline in May 2008, when the price of oil had passed US$140 a barrel, argued that, over the long term theres nowhere for oil prices to go but up. And we could, in fact, see prices considerably above $200 a barrel within the next two or three years. Heinberg went on: I think that the evidence is lining up very strongly in favour of a notion of a near-term global oil production peak. For the last two years oil declines have led oil advances, I think a pretty good argument can be made that were there right now.   Canadian writer Naomi Klein experienced a moment of unexpected clarity on the issue in July 2008 when she was in conversation with independent conservative radio host Jerry Doyle. He burst forth with the following suggestion as a way to lower energy pressure in the US:   I think I have a quick way to bring the prices down. Weve invested US$650 billion to liberate a nation of twenty-five million people. Shouldnt we just demand that they give us oil? There should be tankers after tankers backed up like a traffic jam getting into the Lincoln Tunnel, the Stinkin Lincoln, at rush hour with thank-you notes from the Iraqi government  Why dont we just take the oil? Weve invested it liberating a country. I can have the problem solved of gas prices coming down in ten days, not ten years.   In fact, Doyles plan comes pretty close to what is currently happening in Iraq: the biggest stick-up in world history, as Klein puts it.   Andrew J. Bacevich, West Point graduate and retired colonel, convincingly argues in The Limits of Power: The End of American Exceptionalism that neither John McCain nor Barack Obama will be able to convince Americans to see the direction in which we are headed. And from my point of view, its a direction towards ever-greater debt and dependency. He goes on:   The pursuit of freedom, as defined in an age of consumerism, has induced a condition of dependence on imported goods, on imported oil, and on credit. The chief desire of the American people is that nothing should disrupt their access to these goods, that oil, and that credit. The chief aim of the US government is to satisfy that desire, which it does in part through the distribution of largesse here at home, and in part through the pursuit of imperial ambitions abroad.   But these kinds of arguments remain on the fringes of the mainstream media, herded into airless holding pens to be killed painlessly away from the political elite.   Its unlikely that Murdoch cares that his 2003 prediction proved so spectacularly wrong. He has bigger fish to fry. Besides, for many oil companies, energy scarcity is wonderful for business. ExxonMobil, the worlds largest oil company, posted a quarterly profit in August this year of US$12 billion. Shell made a healthy US$11 billion in the same period.   Of course, the fact that its becoming increasingly difficult to source and produce new petroleum means that the cost of getting the resource to market is also rising. This will, in time, affect the bottom line (though youd be hard pressed to feel sorry for the oil companies as, according to a report released by the US Congress in August 2008, two-thirds of US corporations paid no federal income taxes between 1998 and 2005).   There isnt total consensus over the issue of sourcing new energy reserves, however. Writing in Canadas conservative National Post in July this year, Lawrence Solomon, executive director of Energy Probe and Urban Renaissance Institute, contended that never before in human history has energy been accessible in greater abundance and in more regions, never before has mankind had more energy options and faced a brighter energy future. He argues that:   most of the world remains unexplored - the interiors of Africa, Asia and South America have seen relatively little oil exploration. Oil exploration in the oceans, too, is in its infancy. For all practical purposes, mankind has limitless oil supplies available to it. The story is similar for natural gas and coal, the other major non-renewable sources of energy. And for nuclear power. And for the renewables.   In other words, the Western powers should heavily invest in draining the resources of the less privileged world and then enjoy the profits. This is, in fact, largely what is already taking place. A handful of examples will suffice:   * Chevron has been lobbying the American administration to pressure Ecuador to stop a US$12 billion pollution lawsuit filed by 30,000 Amazon residents who claim that the company dumped billions of gallons of toxic oil waste on their land. We cant let the little countries screw around with big companies like this, a Chevron spokesperson told Newsweek.   * The Democratic Republic of So Tom, off the western equatorial coast of Africa, finds itself at the centre of a potential petroleum boom, with Western oil companies offering ludicrously lopsided petroleum contracts to the impoverished nation.   * The insurgency in the Niger Delta rages on, with the vast bulk of the population not benefiting from the billions of dollars of oil taken by companies such as Chevron and Shell. British Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced in mid-2008 that his country would provide Nigeria with security forces so that they could restore order and get the oil flowing smoothly again.   * At least thirty-five multinationals are planning massive oil and gas projects in the Amazon, with vast swathes of the region designated for exploration. Of sixty-four oil and gas regions that cover 72 per cent of the Peruvian Amazon, all but eight were approved since 2003.   * After a twelve-year struggle in the courts, a US federal judge ruled in 2008 that the US government owed a group of Native Americans nearly half a billion dollars for unpaid royalties on drilling for gas and oil. The $455 million judgment is just a portion of the $47 billion the Native Americans are seeking in the largest ever class-action lawsuit against the US government. The suit seeks to force the government to account for all royalties due individual Native Americans since 1887 on stolen lands.   * The August 2008 war between Russia and Georgia revolved around the issue of oil access. The Russian Federation remains upset with the independent former Soviet republics of the Caspian Sea basin looking for Western firms to exploit their natural resources. During US Vice-President Dick Cheneys visit to Georgia in September 2008, one of his key priorities, largely ignored in the Western media, was to ensure continuous oil flow through the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline and the exclusion of Russia from any future negotiations.   * The Pentagon has fuel costs for the ever-expanding war on terror currently running at roughly US$12 billion annually. According to the Department of Defense, the Pentagon paid more than $70 million to a company called Hunt Refining in the last few years. The only problem, reported the New York Times in July 2008, was that Hunt Oil had pursued an oil deal with the regional Kurdistan government that ran counter to American policy and undercut Iraqs central government.   * The Pentagon and the US government, writes journalist Nick Turse, have evidently decided to prepare for 100 years of war against var...
