In November, the board of CommunityWorks RI named Carrie M. Marsh its executive director. Marsh took a few minutes earlier this week to tell Providence Business News about leading CommunityWorks, which was formed by the July 1 merger of the Elmwood Foundation and Greater Elmwood Neighborhood Services. PBN: Could you give me a sense of your background in urban planning and how that's led you to this post?   MARSH: I recently served four years as urban designer for the City of Portland, Maine. I previously spent 10 years in Providence, where I worked for Buff Chace at Cornish Associates on innovative development initiatives in the city and as the project planner for the Mashpee Commons project on Cape Cod. I was a founding board member of The Steel Yard and an advisor on the reuse of Monohasset Mill. I advocated for the conversion of the Eagle Square Mills to a mix of uses, rather than demolition. I served as a president of the West Broadway Neighborhood Association and was on the Board of the Providence Preservation Society Revolving Fund.   My career has focused on innovative urban design, land-use planning, real estate development, community organization, creative economy initiatives and civic stewardship. I have spent the last 18 years committed to creating places that are healthy, attractive and vital and that support the genius loci, or "spirit of place." I want people to feel good in the places they work, play and live. I fundamentally believe in the value of green and sustainable design. I am fascinated by the politics of place making. I have been an avid student of the dynamics of change in urban environments. I believe in empowering people to co-create their communities, so that they form an emotional bond to that place.   As executive director of CommunityWorks RI, I have the opportunity to combine all of that background and those interests to develop this new organization.   PBN: Tell me about expanding the geographic reach of CommunityWorks. Will that have effects on the organization's role in the Elmwood area?   MARSH: CommunityWorks RI is currently in a strategic planning process, through which the geographic scope will be formally determined. At this time, the intent is to be open to real estate development opportunities that fit the organization's mission and capacity, which are located in areas throughout the state currently underserved by community development corporations.   CommunityWorks RI was formed from the merger of The Elmwood Foundation and Greater Elmwood Neighborhood Services. Both served Providence's Elmwood neighborhood for more than 30 years and undertook numerous community development initiatives, created nearly 1,000 units of affordable housing and mixed-use development and invested more than $60 million in the local community. We own and manage more than 200 units of housing here and will begin development of new projects, such as the Broad Street Revitalization project with 47 units of rental housing, starting in January. We currently have condos for sale on Parkis Street and Early Street, with grants towards the purchase available through the  for qualified home buyers. This allows these units to be sold to qualified purchasers at below-market prices. Our goal is to continue to be a stabilizing influence in the neighborhood and continue to serve this area, particularly in this time of economic uncertainty and with the growing foreclosure crisis.   PBN: How else will this newly formed organization change under your leadership?   MARSH: This is a newly formed organization that is based in 30 years of innovative development. I believe that we have an exceptional staff and board with great expertise and skill sets. I think my leadership role will be to get help build the strategy to move forward of the mission of the organization; to build the brand and identity and promote the work of the organization to the greater community; to network and form collaborative partnerships for doing business; to help identify real estate development opportunities; and to develop access to funding. In general, my goal is to help get the word out beyond the boundaries of the neighborhood. My staff and I are fundamentally supportive of green design and will continue to look at ways to integrate sustainable design and renewable energy resources into our projects as models. I also want to connect the organization to the greater development community and engage with a diverse and creative group of people in efforts to co-create the communities in which we work.   I think we are poised to be a major player in innovative development, particularly during a tough economy. I am excited about finding creative solutions to the challenges ahead.   PBN: With the country in a recession, are you seeing changes to the roles that community development corporations play?   MARSH: I believe that there will be a strong leadership role for CommunityWorks RI to play in mitigating impacts and creating opportunities in the state's urban neighborhood. CDCs, such as CommunityWorks RI, are in good positions to serve the growing foreclosure crisis because we are already established, have access to partners and players and funding resources. My goal is to work with the organization to create models of innovative development and collaborative partnerships that will lead to safe, stable and sustainable neighborhoods throughout Rhode Island.   PBN: How does CommunityWorks benefit from its relationship with NeighborWorks America and does that give it a leg-up that other organizations don't have? MARSH: CommunityWorks RI is an affiliate of NeighborWorks America, one of only three in the state. NeighborWorks America was created by Congress in 1978 to provide financial support, technical assistance and training for community-based revitalization efforts. This affiliation provides CommunityWorks RI with access to capital, quarterly trainings and partnerships that allow our organization to be at the top in the field of community development corporations nationwide. The designation as a NeighborWorks organization requires a very high degree of project implementation, comprehensive programming, highest quality staff and board development and consistent feedback through reporting requirements to the national affiliate.   In addition to our affiliation with NeighborWorks America, we also work with numerous locally based entities such as Local Initiatives Support Corporation Rhode Island, Rhode Island Housing, the , United Way of Rhode Island and with private banking institutions, such as Bank of America, Citizens Bank, Washington Trust and BankRI. The projects and programs that we undertake are often complex and require creative solutions and long term commitment. We are grateful for all of these partners who support our mission and our work. 
