Full Comment, Neil Hrab  One of the more ill-advised corporate actions of the year was the decision of Detroit's Big Three auto executives to take their corproate jets to Washington to plead for billions of dollars in bailout money. General Motors executives were embarrassed into giving up their corporate jets after using them to fly to Washington, DC to beg for government aid. The 'optics,' as professional political consultants say, were awful, and General Motors executives, for one, were embarrassed into giving up their jets.  What you might not be aware of is that GM is also parting with some other assets -- including a considerable portion of its fleet of about 1,000 classic cars, some of which are on display at the GM  Heritage Centre in Sterling Heights, Michigan. The Lansing State Journal reported GM is quietly putting as many as 250 classic cars up for auction at a January event in Scottsdale, Arizona.  You can find a list of the cars for sale here.  A spokesperson for the GM Heritage Centre denied it is a fire sale of assets, saying 'we're thinning the herd, so to speak, but in a thoughtful way.' The spokesperson also pointed out that the Heritage Centre regularly buys and sells vehicles and tweaks its holdings from time to time. The State Journal noted the auction was planned some time before GM formally requested financial assistance.  One can't help but wonder if GM missed a marvellous opportunity to bolster its case with Washington lawmakers by keeping mum about the auction. Instead of being pilloried for jetting around in luxury, GM's CEO Rick Wagoner could have pointed out GM was even willing to sell off bits of its history as part of its commitment to trimming all unnecessary expenditures.  Even this late in the game, GM doesn't seem to recognize the opportunity it had to win a bit of sympathy for its plight. Another example, perhaps, of Detroit dropping the ball?  Neil Hrab is a former National Post editorial writer, who has also served as a communications advisor to the federal government.  No comments have been posted  You must be logged in to post a comment  Related Posts  December 22, 2008, 4:00 PM  Neil Hrab: China signals a waning appetite for U.S. Treasury purchases by Kelly McParland  TAGS: Full Comment, Neil Hrab  December 22, 2008, 11:35 AM  Neil Hrab: Vladimir Putin tries an auto bailout, Russian-style  by Kelly McParland  TAGS: Full Comment, Neil Hrab  December 18, 2008, 11:43 AM  Neil Hrab: U.S. ranks Canada at top of druggy nations by Kelly McParland  TAGS: Full Comment, U.S. Politics, Neil Hrab, Canadian politics  December 16, 2008, 1:30 PM  Neil Hrab: Brits in glass houses still throwing rocks at Wall Street by Kelly McParland  TAGS: Full Comment, Neil Hrab  November 28, 2008, 2:05 PM  Neil Hrab: It's 'FDIC Friday' as U.S. bank failures grow by Kelly McParland  TAGS: Full Comment, U.S. Politics, Neil Hrab  
