(Asia Pulse Data Source via COMTEX) -- UDBKL   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Sindh High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the high ups of various banks seeking explanations till 21 January. A division bench of SHC comprising Justice Arif Hussein Khilji and Justice Syed Mehmood Alam Rizvi issued notices to the presidents of various private banks including, Citibank, ABN Amro Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, United Bank Limited (UBL), Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB), NIB Bank, Mezan Bank and Bank Al-Falah and sought explanation against the harassment of petitioners.  The petitioner had submitted that he ran a company in Fahad Tibet Centre and got loans and credit cards worth Rs 0.675 million from the said banks. He further said that he was paying regular instalment to the banks in time. However, after he suffered huge losses in business, he was unable to pay remaining instalments due to financial constraints. But the banks started harassing him through various means.  The court issued notices to the above-mentioned banks seeking explanation in this regard.  HEARING OF ABDUCTION CASE ADJOURNED  Meanwhile, the Sindh High Court (SHC) has adjourned the hearing regarding abduction of eight women and four children in Tando Allahyar till 15 January. The division bench of SHC comprising on Justice Athar Saeed and Justice Arshad Noor Khan conducted the hearing on the suo moto action taken by Chief Justice Anwar Zaheer Jamali on the complaint of the Asian Human Right Commission (AHRC).  The DPO Tando Allahyar appeared before the court and submitted that no complaint was registered regarding the abductions of women and children within his jurisdiction.  Earlier, SHO Tando Allahyar Police Station appeared before the court and declined the allegation that the said woman and children had illegally been confined in his police station.  He also submitted that civil judge Tando Allahyar had raided the said police station but did not find anyone detained there. The AHRC has sent a written complaint to the Chief Justice SHC requesting suo moto action for the release of eight women and four children of the same family.  According to the commission, the concerned police arrested these persons and kept them at an unknown place. It submitted that since their arrest they have been held incommunicado. AHRC also alleged that local police high-ups were also involved in the illegal detention of these people. Later, the court adjourned the hearing till next date.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
