The renowned banker who led the Jacksonville-based Barnett before it become Bank of America Corp. died at 73 after drowning in his swimming pool.  Rice ran Barnett for nearly 20 years. He was CEO beginning in 1979, and then chairman in 1984. Barnett was sold to NationsBank Corp. in 1998 for $14.6 billion, at the time the largest bank merger in U.S. history.  A gathering for family and friends will be at St. Mathews Catholic Church Dec. 12 at 6 p.m., followed by a funeral mass at the same location the following day at 10 a.m. Interment will be at Oaklawn Cemetery. He was a visionary, said his son, Daniel Rice. He was a wonderful, loving father. In his 32 years at Barnett, Rice transformed the way that banks consolidate. At one time, each individual bank branch would have its own charter, board and president, Daniel Rice said. Within the first five years as CEO of Barnett, Rice helped with more than 90 mergers and acquisitions, and grew the bank from $3.7 billion in assets to $41.2 billion. He was ahead of the curve in realizing that it all one day would be consolidated, Daniel Rice said. He led that for Barnett. Rice became chairman of NationsBank until it merged with Bank of America later in 1998. He retired from Bank of America as vice chairman of corporate development in early 2001. Charlie Rice was the J.P. Morgan of banking in Florida, said Jay Fant, CEO of First Guaranty Bank &amp;amp; Trust Co. of Jacksonville. He turned Barnett Bank into one of the souths most successful financial companies and was vastly instrumental in the economic and cultural vitality of our state. Rice also served on the board of directors of CSX Corp. (NYSE: CSX), Sprint Inc. (NYSE: FON) and Post Properties Inc. (NYSE: PPS) before retiring.  In late 2000 Rice, along with his son, Daniel, started a venture capital group, Mayport Venture Partners LLC. Rice served as chairman and his son is president and CEO of the firm.  Rice was the Business Journals highest paid executive of publicly held companies in 1997 at $4.5 million, excluding stock option packages. He gained $17.9 million when NationsBank bought Barnett, according to Business Journal archives.  He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Dianne, three children and seven grandchildren.  The family requests donations be made to Guardian Catholic Schools, St. Vincents Foundation or Rollins College, where Rice received his masters in business administration, an honorary doctorate and where he was past chairman of the board of trustees.
