Researchers at Texas Tech University have come up with a dry wipe that can clean up hazardous industrial and military chemicals.  Hobbs Bonded Fibers in Waco has received exclusive rights to make, market and distribute the product, called Fibertect.  Texas Tech will get 6 percent of all sales to invest in research, while we and the bank will get the rest, says Larry Hobbs, vice president of manufacturing for Hobbs, who happens to be a Texas Tech grad.  Hobbs said the company, which employs 150 in Waco and 50 in Trenton, Tenn., has not yet begun to produce the product. But he believes there will be many industrial and military customers.  I think they have been waiting on validation testing, said Hobbs, adding that Fibertect performed well in tests conducted at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California.  Experts say the fabric could be used in clothing liner for those who first respond to chemical spills or disasters. Or it could be placed in decontamination kits that governments worldwide may use.  The Fibertect fabric sandwiches a layer of active carbon between cotton. The cloth is flexible, holds together under a variety of acids and bases and quickly decontaminates sensitive surfaces like skin.  Larry Hobbs said his company got its foot in the door on this project about four years ago, when he met the inventor, Seshadri Ramkumar, at a conference. They had a long discussion about its potential, and Hobbs talked up the companys expertise in needle-punch technology.  Tire center worker turns 79  Stanley Williams turned 79 on Friday  and hes spent 57 of those years working at Kendrick Tire &amp;amp; Auto Repair Center in Waco.  Ive enjoyed every minute working in the tire business. Its been good to me, and I hope Ive been good to it, said Williams.  He has no plans to retire.  No, sir, he said. As long as I can get around and help, Ill stick around. When I cant help any longer, theyll send me home.  Williams has thousands of friends in Waco. He went to work part-time for Kendrick when he was still a senior at Baylor University, where he played tight end for the Bears so well he earned All-America honors.  For many years, Williams owned 50 percent interest in the company that spent decades on Franklin Avenue. Rocky Moore bought the company in 2007 and has moved it to 6025 Woodway Drive, where Williams invites customers to come see him.  Plans for restaurant halted  For months, Saxton Pierce Restaurant Corp. of Dallas said it would place an upscale restaurant called Oliveto Italian Bistro behind the McAlisters Deli it owns on West Waco Drive.  But the company reportedly has scratched those plans.  It has put the 3,950-square-foot space on the market, with real estate agent Brad Davis marketing it.  Davis said he knows the economy is challenging right now.  But if this property is priced right, and if someone wants to be in this market, I dont think current conditions are going to stop them, said Davis, who considers the spot ideal for a restaurant.  New Holiday Inn opens  A new 122-room Holiday Inn has opened at 1801 Development Drive, near the Home Depot in Bellmead.  Im told the hotel features KEMs Restaurant and Lounge, which has a flat-screen TV at each booth and a 46-inch flat screen above the bar. The hotel has 15 different room types, including 46 suites, a bridal suite and a childrens suite.  The hotel is operated by Integral Hospitality Solutions out of Birmingham, Ala., and owned by Prem Sai Inc. of Waco.  Commenting is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. M-F, except on Tuesday when it's open until 9 p.m.  Post a comment  Name:  E-mail*:  Remember me? YesNo  You may use the following formatting:  Bold: **this text will be bolded** = this text will be bolded  Italic: *this text will be italic* = this text will be italic  Link: [text to be linked](http://www.wacotrib.com) = text to be linked  Comments:  There will be a delay of up to 5 minutes before your comment appears.  *HTML not allowed in comments. Your e-mail address is required.  
