Plans to reinvigorate downtown Baltimores west side as a prime retail destination have been scaled back, as the developers of the Superblock have decided to shift away from big box retailers and concentrate more on historic preservation.   Representatives from Lexington Square Partners LLC presented their latest plans for the block bounded by Lexington Street, Fayette Street, Howard Street and Park Avenuepart of the so-called Westside Superblock projectat a meeting Thursday at Baltimore Development Corp. headquarters.   Last year, the developers proposal called for 300,000 square feet of retail space. On Thursday, officials said they had considered going as low as 120,000, but that plan was not cost effective.   The current version calls for 150,000 square feet of retail, in addition to 360 dwelling units in a 28-story tower, 745 parking spaces in an enclosed garage and a boutique hotel.   The reason for the reduction in the retail square footage is that we shifted the plan from targeting big-box retailers to more medium-sized retailers, said Roderick W. Teachey, vice president with the Dawson Co., one of the development firms involved. This approach is more consistent with the Westside Strategic Plan and we believe better serves the retail needs of the community.   Other representatives of the developers cited preservation concerns as another reason for slashing the amount of retail space by half.   The big reason for this is the goal of preserving existing buildings, said Bailey T. Pope, also a vice president with the Dawson Co. But we believe thats the right thing to do.  With regard to the retail configuration, in order to bring in the tenants necessary to revitalize the Westside  weve learned that even if you clean it up, if the space doesnt fit a contemporary retail configuration, its not going to work,   Many buildings in the west wide area are more than 100 years old. For decades, the Howard Street corridor was downtown Baltimores main retail center, featuring some of the citys biggest department stores, including Hutzlers, Hochschild-Kohns, Hechts and Stewarts.   The BDCs Westside Initiative, which has been under way for more than a decade, aims to bring retail business back to the area, including to some of the empty department store structures, by redeveloping the Superblock as a mixed-use project with multiple mid-sized businesses.   The city selected the investors now known as Lexington Square Atlanta-based Dawson Co. and four companies headquartered in New York: BLDG Management Co. Inc., Crown Acquisitions, The Feil Organization and Nakash Enterprises to develop part of the Superblock in early 2005.   Dawson was also involved in the redevelopment of Centerpoint, an $85 million, Bank of America-financed project nearby on Howard Street featuring luxury condos and retail, which opened in 2006.   Pope, of the Dawson Co., said that there are lessons to be learned from Centerpoint, which was a very successful historical preservation project, but not a very successful retail development.   Fifty percent of retail space there is still vacant, he said. That speaks volumes about what it takes to revitalize the street. Its not about putting apartments above it, its about having shops on the street.  Whats lacking here is any kind of destination retail.   Two years after Lexington Square won the Superblock RFP, the city signed off on a land-swap deal with the Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation, under which the city would acquire several Weinberg-owned properties on the south side of West Lexington Street in return for several city-owned properties on the north side.   One of the buildings in Lexington Squares portion is the former Brager-Gutmans and Epsteins building, at the corner of Park and Lexington, which most recently housed a childrens furniture store called Young World, which is now shuttered. The developer has committed to preserving this eight-story building and suggested Thursday building a boutique hotel on the site.   Johns Hopkins, president of the preservation group Baltimore Heritage Inc., raised concerns at Thursdays presentation about what he claimed was the developers intent to raze virtually every building on the 200 block of West Lexington Street.   But BDC President M.J. Jay Brodie said Hopkins had his facts wrong. The majority of the square footage of the historic properties on Lexington, including the Brager-Gutman building, is being preserved, he said, and many of the other historic storefronts, which would be demolished under Lexington Squares plans, lack the structural integrity for re-use.   A great deal of the fabric and character of the west side is being preserved, Brodie said. Not preserved like Mount Vernon where George Washington lived, but as adaptive reuse. ... The challenge is to combine the virtues of the past with the needs of the future.   Klaus Philipsen, a Baltimore architect whose offices are on the West Side and who sits on the citys informal architectural design panel, said its important to act quickly, but not to lose sight of preservation goals.   Historic preservation can be a development tool, he said. Once we bring the west side around, the fact that it has that historic and architectural character will be what sets it apart from Harbor East.  For all those who have invested in the West Side until now, we have to move. We cannot keep [the Superblock] much longer how it is. 
