2:37 PMThe Hudson Institute and the Pew Charitable Trusts  TIME: 10:15 a.m.   EVENT: The Hudson Institute and the Pew Charitable Trusts host a symposium "The Future of Democracy in U.S. Foreign Policy," moderated by George Stephanopoulos, ABC News' chief Washington correspondent and the host of This Week with George Stephanopoulos.  PARTICIPANTS: Zeyno Baran, director of the Center for Eurasian Policy, and senior fellow at the Hudson Larry Diamond, senior fellow at the Hoover Carl Gershman, president of the National Endowment for Michael McFaul, associate professor of political science at Stanford University, and an adviser to Barack Obama's Presidential Jack Snyder, professor of international relations in the Department of Political Science and Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia Shibley Telhami, a nonresident senior fellow in the Brookings Institution's Saban Center for  Policy, and former adviser to the U.S. Mission to the Leon Wieseltier, literary editor of The New and Paul Wolfowitz, former deputy defense secretary, former World Bank president and visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute  DATE: December 10, 2008  LOCATION: St. Regis Hotel, 16th and K Street, Astor Ballroom, Washington, D.C. CONTACT: http://www.hudson.org [Note: To RSVP to Ioannis Saratsis at isaratsis@hudson.org with your name and affiliation.]  Copyright 2006 Federal Information &amp;amp; News Dispatch, Inc.  Provider:  The Washington Daybook   Keywords:, , , ,    Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and at least 20 minutes otherwise.   Securities and Insurance Products: Not insured by FDIC or any Federal  Agency May Lose Value Not a Deposit of or Guaranteed by the Bank or any Bank affiliate Supplemental Information Provided By: , ,  and    Links to third-party sites are provided for your convenience. Such sites are not within our control and may not follow the same privacy, security, or accessibility standards as ours. Wachovia neither endorses nor guarantees offerings of the third party providers, nor is Wachovia responsible for the security, content or availability of third-party sites, their partners, or advertisers.     2008 Wachovia Corporation. All rights reserved.
