Each is charged with one count of wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud. Bzdil is also charged with mail fraud and an additional count of wire fraud. Each offense carries a maximum term of 20 years in prison and a fine of at least $250,000.  According to the criminal complaint filed by Jose N. Charriez, the FBI agent who investigated the case:  In her requests for medical reimbursement, Rinehart claimed to be a clinical studies manager for an international support group for people suffering from spinal muscular atrophy. She wrote that she was paying a Columbia-affiliated doctor to perform the studies.  But Rinehart worked in the fashion marketing industry, and the doctor told FBI agents he'd never met her.  The scheme, which ran from January to August 2007, was made simpler because Bzdil was then manager of the Pediatric Neurosciences Department of the Neurological Institute at Columbia and authorized the reimbursements.  Columbia wrote the checks using reimbursement money from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The criminal complaint continues:  Bzdil was responsible for purchasing supplies, managing the payroll and assigning research grant awards to members of his department. He was assigned two credit cards to be used to buy supplies and services for his job and the department.  He used one of the university's cards on a 10-month spending spree on Amazon.com totaling $84,194. None of the goods, which included eye creams and soaps, was determined to be university-related.  With his other university credit card, Bzdil and his bride-to-be arranged their Sept. 15, 2007, wedding at the Skytop Lodge in Monroe County's Barrett Township.  Six months before the wedding, the university credit card was charged $10,609 for guest rooms at the resort booked under the ''Rinehart/Bzdil wedding.'' In the next four months, more charges related to the wedding were made on the card, for a total of $25,746.  Bzdil authorized payment for the credit card purchases, indicating they were for goods and services related to his employment at Columbia.  WHERE FEDS SAY THE MONEY WENT  $84,194 on items from Amazon.com, including soap and eye cream  $25,746 for wedding expenses at Skytop Lodge, Monroe County  $112,500 deposited in couple's joint Citibank account A Lower Macungie couple went on a lavish online spending spree, fattened their bank account and had a wedding to remember at a Poconos luxury resort, all with ''well over $200,000'' they got by defrauding Columbia University in New York, authorities say. In court documents filed Thursday, federal prosecutors say John Bzdil III, who worked at Columbia, and his wife, Heather B. Rinehart, duped the university into paying for more than $84,000 in cosmetics and other personal items from Amazon.com and for more than $25,000 in wedding expenses. The couple padded their savings with an additional $112,500 from phony claims for medical reimbursement from the university, the authorities say. Rinehart sought the reimbursements, and Bzdil authorized the payments, according to a criminal complaint. Bzdil, 34, and Rinehart, 28, were arrested in Lehigh County on Thursday and are expected to appear in a Manhattan courtroom today for arraignment, said Lev L. Dassin, acting U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
