The Supreme Court ruled today in favor of a power company. Thats not necessarily a bad thing for the environment.    Justice Scalia: CBA rules (AP)  In a 6-3 decision, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of power companies in Entergy v. EPA and related cases and against environmental groups, especially Riverkeeper.  The issue was a rules change in the EPA which sought to make power companies upgrade their plants to protect the environment regardless of cost. The appeal aimed at reinstating Bush-era rules that allowed power companies to do cost-benefit analysis before certain upgrades. As the WSJ explains: &#8220;We conclude that the EPA permissibly relied on cost-benefit analysis in setting the national performance standards,&#8221; Justice Antonin Scalia said in the majority opinion. The majority concluded the costs and benefits could be weighed under a broad set of circumstances. Specifically, the court said, using the best available technology to tackle any given environmental problem means using the most efficient approachnot necessarily the best technology if it is prohibitively expensive. The ruling addresses a huge question in the energy and environment battle raging right nownamely, how to strike the balance between environmental protections and safeguarding the economy. It also brings the field of cost-benefit analysis squarely back into the environmental debate.  Cost-benefit analysisweighing the expected costs against the projected benefits of any given decisiongot a bad name in environmental circles because it was so often code for no.  The debate flared up earlier this year when cost-benefit proponent Cass Sunstein was named the Obama administrations regulation czar, frightening many progressives.  The ruling is likely to be highly influential in granting EPA discretion to use cost-benefit analysis more generally, said Tim Bishop, a partner in the Supreme Court and Appellate practice at Mayer Brown law firm. It will probably bolster those who argue that economic analysis is an important part of the equation when government mandates environmental protections&#8211;a battle that has intensified in recent years, he said. Thats why todays Supreme Court ruling could be good news for the environment in the long run. It may have ruled out some best-in-class, but very expensive, environmental regulations. By allowing cost-benefit analysis to prevail, there will be fewer outlandish environmental expensesand therefore less pushback from the business community.  At a time when the Obama administration is clearly increasing environmental oversight of the nations entire energy landscape, the ruling will probably make slightly-less-aggressive environmental laws easier to adopt and harder for businesses to sidestep.        
