Refineries will have to cut production, says Merrill Refineries will have to substantially under utilise their capacity in 2009 as demand for petrol, diesel and other refined product subsides, Bank of America subsidiary Merrill Lynch has said in its new report.  Interestingly, the countries that will suffer due to this are not the oil producing states.  Merrill Lynch said the refineries in countries like India, China, the United States and Vietnam in 2009, many of them government run, will bear the brunt of low profits on refined crude.   GOP alternative budget includes energy steps US House Republicans included an "all of the above" energy strategy in their alternative federal budget, according to the Natural Resources Committee's ranking minority member.  The approach represents a dramatic contrast to the new oil and gas and other taxes and fees in the Obama administration's fiscal 2010 budget request, Doc Hastings (R-Wash.) maintained.    Australia: Big Oil under attack in parliamentary push to cut petrol costs  TWO renegade senators are drafting laws that will guarantee cheaper petrol prices and allow smaller chains to compete with the big oil companies.  Queensland senator Barnaby Joyce and South Australian Independent Nick Xenophon will introduce a Bill next month that outlaws geographic price discrimination - whereby big oil companies undersell petrol to drive out independents.   Caribbean Ship Rates Fall 43% in Week on Low Demand (Bloomberg) -- The cost to transport crude oil from the Caribbean on Aframax tankers fell 43 percent this week as the supply of ships available for charter exceeded demand.   Saudi foreign assets dip by SR59bn  Saudi Arabia's foreign assets plunged by around SR59 billion (Dh58.4bn) in the first two months of this year to reverse a rapid growth during the oil boom of the last seven years, official figures showed yesterday.  Although the world's oil powerhouse recorded its highest budget surplus in 2008, the foreign assets of its central bank plunged to nearly SR16,50.58bn at the end of February from SR1,709.99bn at the end of December, showed the figures by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (Sama), which controls those assets.  Is White the New Green? Three California energy experts make a convincing  and sincere  case that painting roofs white in the hot parts of the planet could offset the greenhouse gas woes caused by the world's cars.    Americans Support Wide Array of Proposed Energy Policies, but Not Yet Ready to Make Tradeoffs NEW YORK  Despite partisan debate, the American people find common ground on their support for a number of measures to address the nations energy problems. At least 10 major energy proposals that would provide incentives for energy efficiency, reduce gasoline usage and support alternative energy have widespread support. But the public may not yet be prepared for the tradeoffs and challenges needed to make these proposals a reality, according to a new survey, The Energy Learning CurveTM, released today by Public Agenda, the nonpartisan opinion research and citizen engagement organization.  The study, based on an in-depth national survey of 1,001 Americans, is being released in conjunction with Planet Forward, an innovative web-to-television-to-web initiative produced by the Public Affairs Project of The George Washington University, designed to advance the discussion on energy and climate change with both citizens and leaders submitting their ideas. Additional findings from the survey will be released on the Planet Forward television premiere, scheduled for 8 p.m. on April 15 on PBS (check local listings for exact show times in your area).   U.S. Backing Of Auto Warranties May Hinder Push For EPA To Back E15 The Obama administration's pledge to back warranties for new General Motors and Chrysler vehicles if the companies go bankrupt may hinder a pending petition asking EPA to raise the level of ethanol in gasoline from 10 percent (E10) to E15 because it could increase potential liabilities stemming from engine damage due to the new fuel blend, opponents of the E15 effort say.  Behind the Climate Skepticism Curtain: The Koch Family and the Cato Institute The name of huge oil conglomerate Koch Industries didnt appear anywhere on the ad the Cato Institute placed in the The Washington Post and other major papers Monday and over the weekend. But the ad  which questioned existing science on climate change  has Kochs imprint all over it.   Kjell Aleklett: Not enough oil for the G20 package The worlds wealthiest nations, the G20 group, have decided to light a fire but have forgotten a very important detail  to check whether there is sufficient fuel to enable the fire to burn. Historically we have never had global economic growth without a simultaneous increase in the use of energy. This means, primarily, an increase in the use of fossil fuels. For a few nations  China, USA, Russia, India, Australia and South Africa  coal is a very important fuel. However, the most important fuel for the world economy is oil. All nations of the world use oil.  George Monbiot: G20 forgets the environment Climate breakdown, peak oil and resource depletion all dwarf the financial crisis in financial and humanitarian terms.  Climate change the biggest loser of G20 summit, warn environmental groups The $1.1 trillion stimulus package agreed by G20 leaders yesterday risks locking the world into a high-carbon economy in which greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, environmental groups have warned.    Closing the Straits of Hormuz and the Effects on Oil Prices For many years, we in the West have worried about Iran closing the Straits of Hormuz to oil tanker traffic.  An abrupt closure would instantly spike oil prices well into three-digits, and immediately change the energy equation of the world.  Indeed, many geostrategic scholars believe that closing the Straits of Hormuz would be tantamount to an act of war.  But what if it was the US that closed the Straits of Hormuz?  What would the world think if the US directly precipitated the end of ship traffic in the Straits, or at least severe restrictions on transit and passage?   Barnett Shale Impact Forecast to Be 40% Lower in 2009 The economic impact of the Barnett Shale on the Tarrant-area economy is expected to drop about 40 percent in 2009 compared with 2008 but will still be big, according to a new study.    An oil town up close As the price of oil falls, small town producers have been forced to cut back their operations. The effects go far beyond the well head.     Pemex Awards Contracts Worth Almost $5.4B Thus Far in 2009 Pemex expects average output this year of 2.75 million barrels per day of crude and 6.45 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas; crude production fell 9.2 percent in 2008 compared to the previous year, coming in at just under 2.8 million barrels per day.  Pemex is making a big effort to develop Chicontepec to offset declining production at aging projects such as the offshore Cantarell Field, once Mexico's crown jewel.   Will Mexico Start Sending Natural Gas North? In the North American energy business, the words gas exports do not usually appear in the same sentence as from Mexico. But get ready, because Mexico has recently increased its production and LNG imports, slashed pipeline imports to a trickle, and looks poised to start shipping gas north this year.   Qatar braces for $1.6bn deficit in 2009-10 budget Qatar is bracing for a QR5.8 billion ($1.6 billion) deficit in its budget for 2009-2010, the country's first since 2001, owing to a slump in oil prices, said a report.  The budget is based on an oil price of $40 per barrel, the Qatar News Agency (QNA) said giving details of the new budgetary estimates for the fiscal year 2009/2010.   Colombian Oil Revenue Predicted to Drop by Half Colombia's revenue from exports of crude and derivatives in 2009 will be roughly half last year's total of $12 billion, the Colombian Oil Association, or ACP, forecast Thursday.   Can Petrobras Prop Up Deepwater Drilling Industry? Lifes not too rosy for the oil and gas drilling industry these days. The plummeting price of oil and gas as well as the credit crunch has idled onshore and shallow water drilling rigs as oil explorers and producers postpone projects, or cancel them altogether.  In the U.S. alone, the number of rigs actively exploring for oil and natural gas is down nearly 50 percent since the end of August to 1,043. Although, I should mention the rig count did rise by four this week, the first time this year the weekly count, conducted by Baker-Hughes, has increased.  There is a bright spot among all the doom and gloom: the deepwater and ultra-deepwater drilling industry.      Brazil Minister Says Oil Industry Still Profitable Brazil's energy and mines minister said here that the scale of his country's current oil production and its expected future output are large enough to make the industry profitable even at current prices.    230,000 electric cars by 2020, says Ryan MORE THAN 200,000 Irish motorists will be driving electric cars in just over a decade, according to the Minister for Communications, Energy and Natural Resources.  Eamon Ryan said it was his departments aim to have 10 per cent of the vehicles on the roads  or 230,000  running on electricity by 2020.  Greening Korea Unlike its neighbor Japan, South Korea is rarely associated with environmentalism. But without fanfare, some of Korea's leading corporations are embracing renewable energy technologies.    Detroit's Critics Just Don't Get It The Detroit that Washington loves to hate, the one that policy wonks and politicians think they can run better than industry professionals, stopped existing at least 15 years ago. It faded because executives at GM, Ford and Chrysler reached a consensus not fully embraced by Congress or the American consumer. To wit: Oil will not last forever.  Detroit's executives aren't stupid. Nor are they...
