CHARLOTTE, N.C. - The insurer  AIG, one of the world's biggest insurers, also said it plans to retain an ownership interest in its foreign life insurance operations 'The company is exploring divestiture opportunities for its remaining high-quality businesses and assets and the proceeds from any divestitures will be used to repay the Federal Reserve 'Our goal is to emerge from this process in a timely fashion as a smaller, but more nimble company that is solidly profitable and has attractive, long-term growth prospects,' he added. AIG shares were up 44 cents, or 11 percent, to $4.44 in early morning trading.So far, AIG has announced only one deal, a sale of its 50 percent interest in London City AirportLiddy said the company has been contacted by 'numerous' parties regarding possible sales of businesses, and AIG will try to sell its operations to 'brand-name' buyers who have strong ratings and balance sheets.One unit that analysts have said could be sold is the International Lease Finance Corp., which leases out more than 900 aircraft with asset values topping $44 billion at the end of the second quarter. Another unit that could possibly be sold, consumer-focused lender  Other businesses AIG operates include life, commercial auto and accident and health insurers 'With new leadership tasked to hit the ground running to stabilize the massive financial services concern, all previous business reviews determining which units are core to AIG seem null and void,' wrote CreditSights analyst Richard Hofmann in a research note. 'The new mantra has moved in favor of a more streamlined entity emerging that would focus on core insurance operations rather than the current financial services conglomerateOn the brink of failure last month, AIG was bailed out when the government offered it a two-year $85 billion loan to avoid bankruptcy during one of the most tumultuous times during the ongoing credit crisis that saw Lehman Brothers Holdings IncIn return for the loan, the government received warrants to purchase up to 79.9 percent of AIG.As of Sept. 30, AIG had drawn $61 billion on the credit facility.Shortly after AIG struck its deal with the government, Liddy, former CEO of Allstate CorpLiddy replaced Robert Willumstad, who took over as CEO in June.The sale of some of its businesses will be used to pay off the outstanding government loan, which was made by the Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkProblems at AIG did not come from its traditional insurance subsidiaries, but instead from its financial services operationsAIG said it was actively working on alternatives for its financial products business and its securities lendingAIG's traditional insurance subsidiaries have widely been viewed as safe and are likely to attract buyers. The New York-based insurer said it has already been contacted by a number of suitors. Last week, during an interview with CNBC, billionaire investor Warren BuffettThe smaller, more narrowly focused company will allow AIG to become 'More nimble' and 'solidly profitable,' AIG's new chairman and chief executive, Edward Liddy said in a statement. Liddy took over as part of the government bailout agreement, replacing Robert Willumstad. The Blackstone Group and JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. are working with AIG on the sale of its assets. _____ AP Business Writer Ieva M. Augstums reported from Charlotte, N.C. AP Business Writer Sara Lepro contributed to this report.
