When American International Group announced Friday which of its subsidiaries it will sell, the list of names did not include American General Finance.But Edward Liddy, the chief executive officer of AIG, left in question the future of American General Finance, which is based in Evansville. 'I would say that's a business we are very cautious about doing anything with,' Liddy said. 'Right now, we are sensitive as to what the funding issues may be.' At the same time, Liddy said AIG plans to concentrate on its U.S. businesses in property and casualty insurance, its foreign general insurance business and most of its foreign life insurance business. 'Everything else that doesn't fit under that definition we are considering for sale,' Liddy said. American General Finance holds some of the assets that have led to the company's current troubles. Instead of coming from AIG's main insurance business, the troubles are mainly a result of insurance policies on certain investments  such as mortgage-backed securities. Those investments have lost a large part of their value in the past year or so. As for American General Finance, by June 30, about 83 percent, or $7.7 billion, of its real estate loans had gone to subprime borrowers.CreditSights, a research firm, believes the presence of those loans may make American General Finance unattractive to prospective buyers and force AIG to sell it at a discount. A sale price likely would range from $1.6 billion to $2.6 billion, according to the company.Suitors for American General Finance may include a number of banks in the United States, Europe and Asia, according to CreditSights.According to financial reports, American General Finance had debts and other liabilities of $25.7 billion by June 30. Those would be assumed by any buyer, Liddy said.In the first half of 2008, American General Finance had about $1.4 billion in revenues, but lost about $63 million after costs were accounted.Liddy said he would prefer the buyers of any assets to be big, 'brand-name' companies with large stores of capital. The financers of the deals may include sovereign wealth funds, he said.Last week, Warren Buffett told CNBC that his firm, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., may try to buy some of AIG's assets. And Maurice 'Hank' Greenberg, a former AIG chief executive officer, has said he is interested in buying them.While not saying much specifically about American General Finance, Liddy did name several companies that will be up for sale. They include:n Parts of the American Life Insurance Co., which operates overseas.n AIG American General, its American life insurance business that is based in Houston.Liddy said AIG has borrowed $61 billion of the $85 billion offered to it by the federal government. It plans to pay that money back through the sale of assets.Several variables, Liddy said, likely will influence what AIG decides to sell.They include:n The amount of money the company obtains through the early sales of subsidiaries.n The success the company sees in trying to sell some of the assets that are giving it the most trouble.n The final amount of money it borrows from the federal government.n And the help it may get from the $700 billion bailout approved by Congress. 'I know the world would like this to be very formulaic and precise,' Liddy said. 'But the fact is it requires a fair amount of judgment and flexibility for us to do this well.' Liddy said he knows employees of any subsidiaries being sold may feel tempted to find jobs elsewhere. AIG is trying to prevent an exodus of workers by adopting retention agreements and improving its severance agreements, he said. 'We think there is every reason for people to wait and see who these buyers are,' Liddy said. About 1,400 people work for American General Finance in the Evansville area. The Blackstone Group and JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. are working with AIG on the sale of its assets. AIG bought American General Finance in 2001.n The Associated Press contributed to this report.
