SANTA FE - New Mexico Superintendent of Insurance, Morris J. Chavez, reassures New Mexico policyholders AIG's insurance companies are financially sound, with substantially more in assets than they need to pay all valid present and projected claims.'Don't worry and don't make any rash decisions if you have a policy issued by an AIG insurance company,' Chavez said. 'All your covered claims will be paid and all your annuity checks will come. Making sure insurance companies are solvent and able to pay every valid claim is my number one job, and the AIG insurance companies are strong and solvent.'Chavez said anyone with a life insurance or annuity policy and are worried about troubles with AIG's parent company can call the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission Insurance Division at 505-827-3928.'Replacing or liquidating a life insurance policy or an annuity can have heavy hidden costs and tax consequences,' Chavez said. 'That is why our insurance law requires that you get all the information you need to make an educated decision in your best interests.'There may be a cancellation penalty if you cancel your automobile or homeowners' policy,' he added. 'If someone tells you to replace any policy because an AIGinsurance company is in trouble and may not be able to pay your claim, that is not only untrue, it is against the law.'Chavez explained that the trouble with AIG is largely with AIG's non-insurance parent company, which is not regulated by the states and therefore not held to the same investment, accounting and capital adequacy standards as its state-regulated insurance subsidiaries. The insurance subsidiaries are solvent and able to pay their obligations.Frequently asked questionsQ: Is AIG going bankrupt?A: AIG is an international financial holding company with numerous businesses.Your insurance and annuity policies are underwritten by AIG's insurance companies. Those companies are financially strong and their assets are protected by state regulators.Q: Are the insurance and annuity policies I purchased from AIG safe or am I going to lose my money?A: Your policies are safe. AIG's insurance companies are financially strong and fully able to honor all policyholders' claims. The NMPRC Insurance Di-vision will continue to closely monitor the situation to ensure policyholders are protected and that there will continue to be sufficient assets to pay claims.Q: Should I cash in my insurance and annuity policies and purchase insurance from another insurer?A: As stated above, the AIG insurance companies are financially strong so your policies are not in jeopardy. Whether you should cash in your insurance policy or switch insurance to another insurer is, as always, a personal decision. Please be aware that some policies may contain surrender charges and/or cancellation penalties. Contact the state insurance division to find out all the information your agent or broker should give you before you make a decision. Talk to your financial adviser before making any decisions. If you have any insurance policy with an AIG company and someone tells you to replace it because of the troubles at AIG's parent company or supposed trouble at the insurance company, call the insurance division or visit www.nmprc.state. nm.us.
