AIG, which received an $85 billion loan from the federal government to avert bankruptcy, often is characterized as the worlds largest insurance company. That caused some to speculate that AIGs problems soon would bring down other insurance companies. To prevent future crises, some suggested that insurance should be regulated by the federal government.As chairwoman of the Arizona Senate committee that oversees insurance regulation in our state, I am not so sure.First, AIG is not a typical insurance company; it is a highly diversified multinational corporation (note that the I stands for international, not insurance). It operates under a holding company structure that includes hundreds of subsidiaries engaged in a wide variety of commercial activities, many of which have nothing to do with insurance.Second, financial analysts and government regulators have traced AIGs troubles to a subsidiary that specialized in a financial product called credit default swaps, an exotic financial instrument that experts have likened to gambling. Warren Buffett famously called them financial weapons of mass destruction. Third, since these credit default swaps arent insurance, state governments had no authority to regulate them or the noninsurance institutions that sell them. That authority resides with the federal government which decided not to regulate credit default swaps at all.Finally, while the feds fiddled, failed and ultimately allowed the risky practices to burn the AIG holding company, AIGs insurance subsidiaries were being carefully regulated by the states and are healthy.The Arizona Department of Insurance imposes rigorous capital requirements on all insurers to make certain theyll be able to fulfill their obligations to policyholders. As a result, Arizonans who hold auto, home, life and health insurance policies issued by AIG or any other insurer can be confident their claims will be paid.Even if AIG sells its insurance companies to pay back the federal loan, state insurance regulators have full authority to ensure policyholders have continued payment of claims.While I am well-known as a states rights advocate, my position here is purely common sense. The economic harm caused by arcane financial derivatives came directly from a lack of proper oversight at the federal level of noninsurance products. For Congress to use this recent AIG noninsurance meltdown to force more federal insurance regulation is misguided at best.Arizona Sen. Pamela Gorman, R-Phoenix, chairs the Senate Committee on Financial Institutions, Insurance and Retirement. She can be reached at pgorman@azleg.gov.
