The worsening turmoil in financial markets Monday altered the balance of power in Canada's wealth management sector, as one of the country's largest insurers was compelled to sell off a highly-prized stake in the third-biggest mutual fund company for $2.3-billion in cash to . The sale of a 37% stake in CI Financial Income Fund by Sun Life provides the insurer with a capital injection as the costs of bad bets on financial markets climb for the Canadian insurance sector as investment portfolios bleed cash. 'What it probably does reflect is Sun Life having a real need for cash. I think it is a huge win for Scotia,' said John Hall, a partner with Borden Ladner Gervais who advises securities companies.The deal positions Scotiabank to vault from the periphery of the wealth management industry to a leading role in a sector expected to benefit as Baby Boomers invest for their retirement. The minority stake in CI gives Canada's third-largest bank a clear 'path to control' to one day seize all of the fast-growing investment manager and combine it with Scotia's other asset management operations, according to a person close to the bank. The transaction is a coup for Rick Waugh, the chief executive of Scotia, who through strategic manoeuvring and back-room talks is overcoming Scotia's weakness in a sector the bank argues represents the future of the industry. 'This announcement is a significant step forward and demonstrates Scotiabank's ongoing commitment to growing our wealth-management business,' said Mr. Waugh. Scotiabank will pay Sun Life $22 a share in cash, a significant premium over the $16.64 closing price last week for shares in CI, which oversees about $100-billion in assets.The fast growing standalone company led by Bill Holland has risen quickly up the ranks of Canada's asset managers and may fight to keep its independence, according to analysts. The sale of the stake by Sun Life comes after the insurer racked up losses alongside rival Manulife Financial on exposures to failed U.S. financial institutions including Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual. The company's market value has fallen by a third since the spring amid a heavy sell-off in the financial sector as a wave of historic collapses of banks and insurance companies shake investor confidence. The cash deal was agreed over the weekend and finalized in the early hours Monday after months of foot-dragging by Donald Stewart, chief executive of Sun Life, following an earlier approach from Scotia.As market values plunge across the insurance sector, companies are seeking to position themselves as drivers of consolidaton even as their own investment portfolios suffer.Leading U.S. life insurers have seen their values drop precipitously in recent days, with Prudential down 40% this month. This is creating potential buying opportunities for insurers that can keep cash on hand and retain investor confidence while rivals sink. 'Unlocking CI's value now provides Sun Life with enhanced firepower to aggressively pursue our growth objectives,' said Mr. Stewart. The company is among a wide range of buyers interested in participating in a fire sale of assets by American International Group, the failed U.S. insurer that is auctioning off key assets in the U.S. and overseas.One of the most sought-after assets is AIG's Asia life insurance operations that have 20 million policyholders across 13 countries.AIG said it hopes to sell a minority stake that analysts estimate could sell for up to US$20-billion amid signs of strong demand.
