(Adds request to Treasury Secretary Paulson to curb 'profligate spending' at AIG.) By Judith Burns Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- The $85 billion federal loan to American International Group Inc. (AIG) is a bad deal for employees and shareholders, who might have fared better if the firm had gone bankrupt, said AIG's former chairman and chief executive, Maurice 'Hank' Greenberg. Greenberg's remarks came in testimony prepared for delivery Tuesday to the House Government Oversight Committee, which he did not attend. 'Regrettably, Mr. Greenberg has told the committee that he is too ill to appear here today,' said committee Chairman Henry Waxman, D-Calif. The panel is holding a series of hearings on the financial crisis rippling through Wall Street, commercial banks and insurance companies. Committee Republicans asked that the hearings include scrutiny of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE), saying the federal housing-finance giants appear to be at the root of many of the financial breakdowns. New York-based AIG received an $85 billion federal credit line in mid-September and will have to sell some assets to pay it back. In his prepared remarks, Greenberg said the deal requires AIG to pay interest on the entire amount even if it doesn't borrow all of it, encouraging the company to draw down all of the funds, even if it does not need it. 'AIG will have no choice but to engage in a fire sale of profitable assets,' Greenberg said in his testimony. He retains a big chunk of AIG stock: At the end of September, he and Starr International Co., an investment vehicle he heads, held 268.5 million AIG shares, a nearly 10% stake. Greenberg and others said that AIG shareholders would have been better off in a traditional bankruptcy, but that Wall Street firms would have fared worse. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) was a significant counterparty of AIG, but witnesses said they did not know if that was a factor in the federal government's decision to bail out AIG. New York Insurance Department Superintendent Eric Dinallo told the House panel that AIG's collapse was due to a 'liquidity problem' that swamped rescue efforts by New York state, requiring the federal government to step in. He noted that the problems won't affect AIG's insurance policyholders, which he said proves that states are effective regulators of insurance companies. AIG's problems arose from its financial-products unit, which sold credit-default swaps, a kind of protection against bond issuers defaulting. According to Greenberg, the swaps business worked well under his watch but 'exploded' after he left the company in March 2005 and risk controls he put in place were weakened or eliminated, leaving AIG exposed to risky subprime mortgages. Greenberg's successor, Martin Sullivan, who stepped down in June, said he enhanced risk management and blamed the company's downfall on a 'global financial tsunami' that caused credit markets to freeze and required AIG to take unexpected write-downs on unrealized losses on credit-default swaps. He said calls to suspend mark-to-market accounting 'make a lot of sense to me.' Robert Willumstad, who replaced Sullivan and headed AIG until the federal bailout, agreed that accounting rules and a downgrade by credit-rating agencies pushed AIG to the brink. In the end, said Willumstad, 'there was no private-market solution to AIG's situation.' Waxman said federal regulators at the Office of Thrift Supervision and AIG's auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, recognized problems with the firm's credit-default swaps business and that AIG accountant Joseph St. Denis resigned in protest when his boss, Joseph Cassano, blocked him from scrutinizing the deals. Democrats on the panel attacked the company's former executives for lavishing compensation on themselves, leaving taxpayers on the hook when the company stumbled. In a letter Tuesday to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, Waxman and three other committee Democrats complained that AIG is continuing to pay $1 million a month to Cassano for consulting fees. 'We urge you to protect the taxpayers' money and end this profligate spending,' the lawmakers wrote. Less than a week after the federal bailout, AIG held a weeklong retreat at the pricey St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, Calif., where rooms can cost more than $1,000 a night, Waxman said. Invoices distributed by the House committee show AIG paid more than $440,000 to the resort, including nearly $7,000 for golf and $23,000 in spa charges. AIG spokesman Joseph Norton said the meeting wasn't a corporate retreat but a 'recognition event' planned in 2007 to reward high-performing independent insurance agents who sell AIG products. He characterized the gathering as 'standard practice' to motive sales personnel. Dinallo urged lawmakers to focus on regulation of credit-default swaps, estimating that no more than 10% of swaps are sold as insurance, with the vast majority used as a speculative 'gamble.' Regulation of credit-default swaps is almost non-existent. New York State Gov. David Patterson has outlined changes that will regulate a portion of the $62 trillion credit-default swaps market and Dinallo praised Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Christopher Cox for seeking congressional authority to regulate credit-default swaps. Dinallo added that New York is prepared to work with federal regulators on a comprehensive solution, such as a central clearinghouse or counterparty. Former SEC chief accountant Lynn Turner told the House panel that he doesn't think AIG was honest with investors about its exposure to the credit-default swaps market. He suggested Congress provide the SEC with up to $75 million of additional funding a year to police corporate America. Turner also endorsed calls to investigate Fannie and Freddie, telling lawmakers, 'I think you need to drain the entire swamp.' -By Judith Burns, Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-6692; Judith.Burns@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=SeIg8G7yNMkWwEGTEPV1HQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
