NILA - The Philippine unit of American International Group Inc. sought to dispel concerns Monday that the sale of the country's largest insurer would affect its ability to pay claims. Jose Cuisia, president and CEO of Philippine American Life and General Insurance Co., or Philamlife, said AIG has decided to unload the unit to pay off an $85 billion (euro61.7 billion) loan extended by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank during the ongoing credit crisis. "They have to sell some of the valuable assets to generate that kind of money," Cuisia told reporters. "This is the reason why Philamlife is being sold to the public." The insurer also took out a full-page ad in several of the nation's dailies, saying, "The financial issues pertaining to our parent company, AIG, do not affect our ability to pay claims and underwrite new policies." Cuisia said the company, with interests spanning banking, mutual funds, preneed and nonlife insurance, has been a leader in the industry for the past 61 years. He said it had more than 170 billion pesos (US$3.7 billion) in assets. "I look at this also as a positive because this is an opportunity for local groups within the Philippines to own a trophy company like Philamlife," he said. "While it was unimaginable in the past that Philamlife would be owned by local interest, there is now a unique opportunity." Cuisia refused to identify potential buyers, but said they included groups from inside and outside the Philippines. He said two investment banks appointed by AIG - the Blackstone Group and JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. - were working on the sale of AIG assets. He said they will determine if Philamlife would be sold as one whole group with affiliates or as different units. "We would like to assure our policy holders there is no reason for them to worry, to feel their investments are at risk," he said. "We have managed our investment portfolio prudently and conservatively." Other AIG assets being sold in Asia include three of its Japanese life insurance businesses, Alico Japan, AIG Edison Life Insurance Co., and AIG Star Life Insurance Co. ENETWORK HEADLINE  ENETWORK NEWS    [] []
