The Business Journal of the Greater Triad Area - by Matt Evans Staff writerAIG United Guaranty is not for sale  unless someone wants to buy it.That word from officials at the worlds largest insurance company offers some clarity for the roughly 500 local employees of the Greensboro-based mortgage insurance firm, which has suffered huge losses since the downturn in the housing market began and been caught up in the rapidly declining fortunes of its parent, New York-based American International Group.AIG is selling off pieces of its group of businesses to raise the money it needs to pay back an $85 billion loan from the Federal Reserve. The Fed stepped in with that cash last month to prevent a liquidity crisis from toppling the giant, but the terms of the loan include a high interest rate and a 79.9 percent ownership stake for the government.Those are high prices to pay, and so AIG Chairman and CEO Edward Liddy promised to move deliberately but carefully as he outlined the shape of the new AIG on Oct. 3. In a conference call with analysts, he said the company would retain its domestic property and casualty insurance operations, its foreign general insurance business and would keep an interest in its foreign life insurance operations. Business lines outside those core units would be offered for sale.United Guaranty is majority-owned by AIGs Commercial Insurance Group of Cos., which is part of the Property &amp;amp; Casualty Group that will remain part of AIG. Liddy did not mention United Guaranty specifically during the conference call, but he told Bloomberg in an interview later that, while not actively for sale, the mortgage insurance line of business could indeed be sold.If something emerges and someone wants to buy it, wed be delighted to entertain it, Liddy said. We just dont think that will happen.United Guaranty CEO Billy Nutt was not available for comment this week, but in a written reply to questions, company officials clarified that AIG has several long-term options for AIG United Guaranty, including returning the business to profitability.That wont be easy in the short run. Like other mortgage insurers, United Guaranty has been hit hard by the housing market crash, since its main line of business is insuring mortgage lenders against the borrower defaults that have skyrocketed in the past year. Operating losses in the first half of this year totaled $872 million.Hardly aloneAnother mortgage insurer in the Triad has already succumbed to the pressure on the industry. Winston-Salem-based Triad Guaranty went into run off over the summer when its financial strength weakened to the point that lenders wouldnt do business with it. It laid off most of its employees and now focuses only on servicing existing policies.While operating losses have mounted, United Guaranty officials have stressed that they are well capitalized to withstand the onslaught of claims thanks to a long run of profits in the boom real estate years. But the more substantial problems at its parent company have taken some toll.United Guaranty was one of only two mortgage insurers to maintain the top AA grades by major rating firms. But that changed last month when it was caught up in a rash of downgrades of AIG subsidiaries.Those downgrades dont keep United Guaranty from writing new business, though company officials said they have stopped writing policies on second mortgages and cut back local staffing levels. Active sales of polices on first-lien mortgages continue as usual, officials said.The structure of the industry may also keep changing as owners of other private mortgage companies look at possible sales.Darin Arita, an analyst with Deutsche Bank who follows the mortgage insurance industry, agrees with AIG CEO Liddy that there is not likely to be much interest from outside buyers for any mortgage insurer right now. But in a tumultuous market that has seen many strange things happen, nothing is out of the question.If there is an attractive offer, the board would have to consider it, Arita said. I wouldnt expect that to happen, but ... theyve got a big loan to repay.AIG United GuarantyCEO: William Billy NuttAddress: 230 N. Elm St., No. 1, Greensboro 27401
