(A. M. Best via COMTEX) -- AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Aflac Inc. may be interested in buying the life insurance subsidiary of Alico Japan, a unit of American International Group Inc.Of the companies out there, the life insurance business of Alico Japan 'is the one we're most interested in,' said Laura Kane, a spokeswoman for Aflac, a seller of supplemental insurance. Alico, which sells supplemental insurance, competes with Aflac in Japan, she said. However, 'mergers and acquisitions are not something that we've ever done,' Kane said. 'It will take us some time to...look at it but we are interested in taking a look at it and seeing if it's a fit.'The decision by AIG to sell its three life insurance units in Japan stirred up substantial interest from international and domestic investors in Alico, AIG Edison Life Insurance and AIG Star Life Insurance.Possible deals are attracting international insurers who want to build up a strong presence in one of the world's largest life insurance markets, which generated total premium revenue of 8.9 trillion yen (63.6 billion euros) in the second quarter, according to the Life Insurance Association of Japan's monthly report on 43 life insurers. Outside the United States, Japan is AIG's largest life insurance market (BestWire, Oct. 6, 2008).In the United States, the Columbus, Ga.-based Aflac (NYSE: AFL) is a top player in the voluntary benefits market, particularly for disability and accident insurance. Unlike traditional group insurance, where an employer pays some portion of employees' premiums, voluntary benefits don't require an employer to contribute toward employee premiums, but the products are sponsored by the employer. If an employee chooses to participate, the employee pays 100% of the premium through payroll deduction (BestWire, May 20, 2008).The biggest market for Aflac is Japan, however, where it derives about 70% of its total revenue. The company says it's the No. 1 insurance company in terms of individual insurance policies in force in that country. Cancer is the No. 1 killer in Japan and Aflac is the biggest seller of cancer insurance there, according to the company (BestWire, Nov. 19, 2007).'When companies are for sale that are operating in the markets in which Aflac operates and sell related businesses, we have expressed an interest in looking,' said Kane of Aflac's interest in Alico Japan's life insurance unit. But she declined to elaborate on the similarity in the insurance products both companies sell.Late last year, Japan Post Network Co. chose Aflac Japan, a unit of Aflac Inc., as the exclusive provider of cancer insurance for distribution through its roughly 24,000 post offices nationwide. Japan Post Network is one of four separate postal entities that started operating last October as a part of the postal privatization process established under laws enacted in 2005 (BestWire, Nov. 19, 2007).Earlier this month, AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy said the company would focus on its U.S. property/casualty operations and its overseas general insurance businesses, and keep a majority stake in its key foreign life insurance operations, but would seek to sell its many other operations. The asset sale would generate revenue to repay the $85 billion emergency loan AIG (NYSE: AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) received from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Sept. 16 and stabilize the company's finances, Liddy said during a call with equity analysts (BestWire, Oct. 3, 2008).According to an A.M. Best Co. report, AIG operates overseas mostly through Alico, which stands for American Life Insurance Co.; AIA, Nan Shan, Philamlife, AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life. Alico, while incorporated in Delaware, writes all of its business outside the United States. It operates either directly or through subsidiaries in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Middle East, South Asia and the Far East -- with Japan being the largest territory, the report said.Alico Japan is currently capitalized at 328.2 billion yen after it received a 90.7 billion yen capital injection from holding parent AIG to strengthen its capital base amid a plunge in stock prices (BestWire, Oct. 6, 2008).Meanwhile, Japan's Yamato Life Insurance Co. failed last week, citing the investment fallout from volatile stock markets, marking the first collapse of a Japanese financial institution in the wake of this year's global financial turmoil. A medium-sized life insurance company, Yamato Life filed for court protection from creditors with debt exceeding assets by 11.5 billion yen (BestWire, Oct. 10, 2008).Shares of Aflac were trading at $46.25 a share on the afternoon of Oct. 14, up 5.11% from the previous close.(By Fran Matso Lysiak, senior associate editor, BestWeek: fran.lysiak@ambest.com)For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
