Sept. 26 Allianz more likely to poach customers than bid on any of AIG's units Allianz is not expected to bid on any of AIG's corporate business, since Allianz's industrial unit-Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty-is in a strong position to takeover some of AIG"s commercial and industrial business at the upcoming renewal, according to a source within the company. "It will be likely that the brokers will move the business to a financially solid business partner like Allianz at renewal," said the company source, who asked not to be named. Some brokers have already approached AGCS on moving business from AIG, particularly on long-tail business, the company source said. (Business Insurance) Sept. 25 Commercial insurance unit of AIG well-capitalized, says CEO John Doyle, president and CEO of Commercial Insurance at American International Group, said units of AIG remain on solid financial footing. "Our insurance companies are well capitalized and they remain well capitalized." He also claimed that the media has exaggerated stories of client defections. "Our client retention has remained strong," Mr. Doyle said. "The media is trying to tell a story there that doesn't exist at this point in our commercial insurance operation. Certainly, the balance sheet of AIG's U.S. commercial insurance business appears in better shape than the last time most clients renewed their policies. Its policyholder surplus stands at $26.7 billion, up from $17.5 billion in 2005. (Financial Week) Greenberg aims to sell some AIG shares Former American International Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Maurice R. Greenberg intends to sell some AIG stock, according to a regulatory filing on Thursday. Mr. Greenberg, who ran AIG for nearly four decades, said he will sell stock in the open market and the sales may "materially" decrease the holdings he controls. Sales will be made for liquidity and other purposes, according to the filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Greenberg, through a personal stake, family trust and companies that he controls, owns roughly 11% of AIG's stock, making him its largest shareholder before AIG agreed to a federal bailout that will give the government 80% ownership. (Reuters) Sept. 24 Fed drives a hard bargain, but AIG signs 'definitive' agreement AIG said it signed a "definitive" agreement for up to $85 billion in borrowings from the U.S. Federal Reserve, the main part of a rescue by the central bank that will see it take a 79.9% stake in the giant insurer. AIG Chief Executive Edward Liddy said in a statement the facility was "the company's best alternative" in the current market environment.Under the terms of the agreement, AIG has to pay back the loan from, among other things, asset sales and new debt or share issues. In the statement, AIG made it clear how onerous the terms of the two-year loan will be. Not only will it pay 8.50 percentage points over 3-month LIBOR, putting the current rate at well over 11%, but it will also pay commitment fees. There will be an initial gross commitment of 2% of the total loan facility, and subsequently a fee on undrawn amounts of 8.5% a year. The interest and the fees will be added to the balance outstanding, the company said. (Reuters) AIG will bounce back: A.M. Best Executives at rating agency A.M. Best said the beleaguered insurer will emerge from its woes as a strong, but smaller company. "Although AIG's business profile and franchise value have been tarnished by recent events, A.M. Best believes AIG remains a formidable player in the property/casualty market," said Anthony Diadato, group vice president of U.S. property/casualty ratings at A.M. Best. AIG's A.M. Best rating remains bbb under review with a negative implication. Mr. Diadato said the insurer does face considerable downside risk that it will lose clients and employees while it seeks to shore up its balance sheet and repay an $85 billion loan from the Federal Reserve. (Financial Week) Troubles at AIG won't cause market hardening AIG's financial difficulties will cause some market disruption, but are not enough to spark significant changes in insurance pricing, according to A.M. Best Co. Inc. Experts at the Oldwick, New Jersey-based rating agency said during an online briefing that AIG's insurance units remain strong, despite the parent's liquidity problems that led it to accept an $85 billion loan from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. "We have all heard the stories of policyholders moving, and, in the end, we would expect some policies will move," said Matthew Mosher, senior vice president, global property/casualty ratings at Best. AIG's competitors are clearly eyeing its policyholders in the wake of the financial problems that have beset the insurance giant, he said. (Business Insurance) Sept. 23 By rejecting severance, AIG's ex-CEO shines a light on exec pay debate Although former AIG CEO Robert Willumstad's surprise decision to reject a $22 million severance package may be an encouraging sign for opponents of large executive pay packages, don't expect other chief executives of failing companies to do the same. The government's role in saving AIG from bankruptcy may have put pressure on Mr. Willumstad to forgo the severance package, some observers say, especially since he served as CEO for only three months. But his action has brought more attention to the heated debate over the appropriate level of compensation for CEOs of failing companies. "There is definitely a trend of some companies cutting back on some of these severance packages, especially for newer executives," said Equilar research manager Alexander Cwirko-Godycki. (Financial Week) Sept. 22 Besieged insurer firming up list of assets to sell &gt; AIG should have a list of assets it wants to sell by next week, its new chief executive said on Monday, as the company prepares to split itself up to repay an emergency bailout loan. The insurer needs to raise cash quickly to repay an $85 billion U.S. Federal Reserve loan that allowed it to avoid bankruptcy after taking massive losses on mortgage derivatives. "We're going to take those assets which are probably very valuable, but can also be digested by buyers in relatively manageable bites, and we will simply start to market them," Edward Liddy, who was appointed AIG 's chief executive last week, said in an interview on the CNBC financial news channel. "I hope within the next seven to 10 days to be out there with a plan that lists everything that's for sale and maybe even execute some of those transactions by then," said Mr. Liddy, a former CEO of insurer Allstate Corp. (Reuters) Some businesses move away from AIG &gt; Despite American International Group Inc.'s efforts to reassure policyholders that its core insurance operations are stable, some are abandoning the stricken insurer for markets they feel are more secure, market sources confirm. "We have already seen a large number of war-risk related business as well as accidental death and business travel plans move away from AIG," said a statement from a spokesman for Petersen International Underwriters, a California-based Lloyd's of London coverholder. "We have also seen policyholders of kidnap/ransom and disability plans" move coverage, he said. AIG has claimed its insurance units are sound and will meet all their obligations. (Business Insurance)
