(A. M. Best via COMTEX) -- AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- The $85 billion federal loan designed to keep American International Group Inc. out of bankruptcy is actually ?lose-lose for all concerned? and will kill the company, AIG?s former head told its current chief executive.Instead of the $85 billion credit facility, which has been supplemented by a $38 billion liquidity facility, the rescue plan should be based on a federal purchase of preferred stock, said Maurice ?Hank? Greenberg, in a proposal to AIG Chief Executive Officer Edward Liddy that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.Greenberg said the loan, agreed to last month, has a two-year term with an effective interest rate of more than 14% and gives the government warrants for a 79.9% stake in AIG.'This means that AIG cannot pay off this loan from the proceeds of selling assets in this market, nor can it pay the annual interest rate from earnings,' Greenberg wrote. ?As a result, thousands of jobs will be lost, pensioners will lose their savings, and millions of shareholders will be disenfranchised.?AIG (NYSE: AIG), battered by credit swap portfolio losses driven by the subprime crisis, is required to repay the loan through the proceeds of asset sales, and issuances of debt or equity securities. Liddy has said AIG will focus on its U.S. property/casualty operations and its overseas general insurance businesses, and keep a majority stake in its key foreign life insurance operations, but will seek to sell its many other operations to repay the loan and stabilize its finances (BestWire, Oct. 3, 2008).Citing federal steps during the past few weeks to provide funding for to capitalize financial services companies in danger of failing, Greenberg said, ?At a minimum, AIG should be afforded the same borrowing terms as other companies.??Since the time the credit facility was entered into, the Federal Reserve has stepped up direct lending to scores of financial institutions ? able to borrow on terms far less onerous than those imposed on AIG,? he said.Under Greenberg?s proposal, the government would acquire nonvoting, preferred AIG stock paying a 5% or 6% percent annual dividend, and would have the right to redeem the stock over a period of 10 years at a 10% premium.?Such a plan would have an immediate impact on the market and would save AIG from being liquidated,? he said.Efforts to obtain comment from Greenberg and from officials at AIG and the SEC were not immediately successful.Currently the head of C.V. Starr, Greenberg, who ran AIG for decades before being forced out three years ago during an accounting scandal, owned about 11% of outstanding AIG shares personally and through the companies and charitable organizations he controlled. He had been its largest stockholder until the federal loan deal, and last month he and a company he controls sold 40 million shares of AIG stock for $125.9 million (BestWire, Sept. 26, 2008).The current Best's Financial Strength Rating of A (Excellent) for most of AIG's insurance units is under review with negative implications.Shares of AIG were trading at $2.80 late on Oct. 14, up 8.95% from the previous close.(By Alyn Ackermann, senior associate editor, BestWeek: Alyn.Ackermann@ambest.com)For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
