WASHINGTON, D.C. (Oct. 7, 2008)  New York State Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo appeared today before the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform at a hearing titled, The Causes and Effects of the AIG Bailout. Dinallo outlined the steps that the New York State Insurance Department  and state insurance regulators from across the nation  have taken to protect policyholders and ensure the solvency of the American International Group (AIG) insurance subsidiaries. Its important for everyone, and especially policyholders in AIG insurance companies, to understand that the insurance companies, which are regulated by New York and other states, are solvent and have the funds to pay any policyholder claims, Dinallo said. AIGs problems came from its parent company and from its non-insurance operations, which are not regulated by New York or any other state. Dinallo clarified that AIG owns 71 U.S.-based insurance companies and 176 other financial services companies, including non-U.S. insurers. Only AIGs U.S. insurance subsidiaries are regulated by state insurance regulators. AIGs holding company, by its own choice, is regulated by the U.S. Office of Thrift Supervision, a federal agency charged with overseeing savings and loan associations. Insurance regulators from every state  and especially those regulators in New York and Pennsylvania, who oversee a large number of AIG insurance subsidiaries  have been involved in every step of resolving AIGs holding company problems, said National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) President and Kansas Insurance Commissioner Sandy Praeger. Our primary principle throughout the effort to assist AIG has been to protect insurance company policyholders and to stabilize the insurance marketplace. Praegers comments were submitted via a letter addressed to Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Ranking Member Tom Davis (R-Va.). Praegers letter was submitted to the record and circulated to members of the House Oversight Committee and the House Financial Services Committee, among others. Some insurance lobbyists hope to politicize and mislead policymakers by suggesting AIGs problems are a result of state insurance supervision, and could have been averted by federal oversight, Praeger said. On the contrary, conservative state regulation ensured that while the federally regulated holding company was failing, the insurance businesses were appropriately capitalized and the interests of policyholders were placed ahead of shareholders. About the NAIC Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a voluntary organization of the chief insurance regulatory officials of the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAICs overriding objective is to assist state insurance regulators in protecting consumers and helping maintain the financial stability of the insurance industry by offering financial, actuarial, legal, computer, research, market conduct and economic expertise. Formed in 1871, the NAIC is the oldest association of state officials. For more than 135 years, state-based insurance supervision has served the needs of consumers, industry and the business of insurance at-large by ensuring hands-on, frontline protection for consumers, while providing insurers the uniform platforms and coordinated systems they need to compete effectively in an ever-changing marketplace. For more information, visit www.naic.org/press_home.htm .
