The decision of American International Group to sell its three life insurance units in Japan stirred up substantial interest from international and domestic investors in Alico, AIG Edison Life Insurance and AIG Star Life Insurance. Possible deals are attracting international insurers who want to build up a strong presence in one of the world's largest life insurance market, which generated total premium revenue of 8.9 trillion yen (63.6 billion euros) in the second quarter of this year, according to the Life Insurance Association of Japan's monthly report on 43 life insurers. Japan is AIG's largest life insurance market outside the United States. In the wake of AIG's strategy announcement, Alico Japan issued a statement to clients ensuring that changes in company's ownership will not affect insurance policies and terms in the long run. European insurance groups like Allianz of Germany and Aegon N.V. of the Netherlands, which yet have their own sales networks in Japan, are reportedly showing interests in the AIG units. Cash-rich Japanese insurance companies such as life insurer Nippon Life and nonlife insurer Tokio Marine are also reportedly on the potential buyers' list. In the past two months, Tokio Marine paid 23 billion yen to buy back 6.4 million of its own shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. AIG's life insurance operations are attractive to domestic insurers for their direct marketing and sales networks and Internet systems in Japan, as well as AIG's established operations across the Asia-Pacific region. In additional to international insurance groups, U.S. investment funds are also reportedly indicating interests in the Japanese companies. Purchases by an alliance of investment funds and insurance firms are also considered as an option. Deals are expected to be sealed by the end of this year. Any such sales will alter Japanese insurance landscape, and to a certain extent the whole Asian region, with local or international insurers radiating from this vast life insurance base in Japan to other Asian operations. Alico began operations in Japan as the first foreign life insurer in 1973, and achieved significant growth supported by nationwide sales and direct marketing networks through mail and telephone. The insurer generated 1.47 trillion yen in premium revenue in fiscal 2007. Alico Japan is currently capitalized at 328.2 billion yen after it received a 90.7 billion yen capital injection from holding parent AIG last week to strengthen its capital base amid a plunge in stock prices, according to the company. 
