(Business Insurance)-How deeply American International Group's asset sales are likely to cut into the insurer's core commercial property/casualty operations remains unclear, though aircraft leasing and other noncore operations are expected to be the first to be sold, observers say. Under terms announced earlier this month, AIG will be able to tap up to $85 billion from a two-year revolving credit facility provided by the Federal Reserve Board, but must sell assets to repay that loan. The Federal Reserve Board is to receive a 79.9% equity interest in exchange for the loan. What AIG ultimately sells will depend on how much units fetch and how much additional capital is needed for its credit default swap portfolio. Top AIG officials have said the insurer doesn't plan to sell its U.S. and foreign commercial property/ casualty business. In a television interview last week, new Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy said the New York-based insurer will return to its core of domestic and international commercial insurance and emerge a "very viable, nimble but smaller entity." He said he expects to release a list this week of everything that is for sale. The commercial P/C insurance operations remain a profitable, well-capitalized part of AIG. However, some observers say that the company is almost obligated to say it will keep its core commercial business because indicating otherwise would cause a rapid exodus of both policyholders and management talent. John L. Ward, chief executive officer of Cincinnatus Partners in Cincinnati, said, "I think they'll have to go fairly deep because $85 billion is a big number, but I think that Liddy will likely want to hold on to, as long as he can, the commercial lines operations, which are generally viewed as the core franchise value within AIG." While Mr. Liddy may have to say AIG will retain its core commercial P/C business, nevertheless, "at the end of the day, the franchise is worth a lot more than the $85 billion bridge loan, and so if this process is managed effectively, there will be some solid value remaining after the loan is paid off," Mr. Ward said. Mark Lane, an analyst with William Blair &amp;amp; Co. in Chicago, said, "Ultimately, we don't have enough details to really understand what the potential liability is for the credit derivatives portfolio, which is really going to drive capital needs, so while (Mr. Liddy) says he intends to keep the commercial property/casualty units, that doesn't mean they'll be in the same businesses they're in right now. I would assume that, on the margin, they would narrow their scope even a little bit." However, Cliff Gallant, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods Inc. in New York, said despite Mr. Liddy's attempt to keep the core business, "I think it's going to be difficult." Personnel retention remains a top concern and a motivation to move quickly, say observers. "I think it's a fluid situation," Mr. Lane said. "There definitely will be a flow of people out of AIG. That is imminent and I'm sure that they will have to offer their people some financial incentive to stay with the company." Mark Charron, a principal and national actuarial and insurance solutions leader for Deloitte Consulting in Hartford, Conn. said, "It's widely known that AIG has a longstanding history of compensating employees with stock, and if that stock is not worth what it used to be," the insurer will have to adjust its compensation package to be competitive. In an e-mail, an AIG spokesman said its "employees have remained dedicated to the organization and meeting the needs of clients. Despite market conditions, we have not seen any change to our employee retention. The company is reviewing options to support employees' continued commitment to the organization." The loss of policyholders is a consideration as well. "I think it very much will depend on if they are able to take successful steps in trying to sell certain assets and pay back the federal government. I think if they can do an orderly sale of assets and pay back that loan, or show significant progress, they can really rebuild credibility quickly," said Mr. Charron. AIG "is renewing longstanding clients and closing new business," the spokesman said in the e-mail. "Moreover, many state insurance commissioners have reiterated the fact that AIG's insurance companies are solvent and have the ability to pay claims." "If they could have a good core business that remains after all this, that would be the best of all worlds, and I think it just remains to be seen" how the company will proceed, Mr. Ward said. Analyst Thomas Gallagher of Credit Suisse in New York estimates in a report that AIG would be able to garner about $115 billion for its salable business lines, which he estimates decreases to $82 billion once the funds needed to "de-risk" its portfolio are taken into account. Mr. Gallant said, "I don't think they're going to get much of a premium to book value because I view them as somewhat of a distressed seller." Most frequently cited as likely to be shed are AIG's aircraft leasing business, as well as its consumer finance, life and automobile businesses, among others. At the end of the day, Mr. Liddy said, he anticipates AIG will "look like it did prior to 1998, 1999," with "less reliance on the financial side" and "much more reliance on the P/C side." Andrew Colannino, vice president in the P/C division for Oldwick, N.J.-based A.M. Best Co. Inc., said, "They're going to be a smaller, more focused company in the end, and by how much, it's hard to say at this point." "I'm sure some parts of AIG are going to be parts of other organizations, but in the end, there should be a core, but I don't know in what form," Mr. Colannino said. Cincinnatus' Mr. Ward said, "It clearly will be less unique at the end of the day, but I doubt that it will just be a normal insurance company, either." Meanwhile, AIG Financial Products' actual exposure to an estimated $450 billion of credit default swaps remains uncertain. "I think their financial products business will be shut down, and then it' s a matter of their ability to eliminate their exposure with their counterparties on those derivatives transactions," Mr. Lane said. Some parts 'hard to sell' "Some of the undesirable investments may remain with them, because they're going to be hard to sell," Mr. Colannino said. Last week, New York Gov. David A. Paterson said the state will regulate part of the credit default swap market starting in January. "It's difficult to say what will happen with those credit default swaps, but it does appear the insurance regulators do intend" to get more involved in this area, "probably in the interest of protecting the policyholders and just wanting to make sure that those complex instruments get additional regulatory scrutiny," Mr. Ward said.
