SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- American International Group Inc. put many of its businesses up for sale on Friday to try to repay government loans that have already ballooned to $61 billion in recent weeks. The insurer, which had to be saved from bankruptcy last month by a Federal Reserve bridge loan, said it wants to keep its main property and casualty insurance businesses in the U.S. and abroad. It also wants to retain a majority stake in American International Assurance, or AIA. This unit is a leading life insurer in Southeast Asia and one of the company's crown jewels that had its origins in the early part of the last century, when C.V. Starr founded what grew into AIG in Shanghai. AIG is considering selling other overseas life insurance businesses that are part of ALICO, which operates in Japan, Europe, the Middle East, South Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. Units that are also for sale include AIG's personal lines and mortgage insurance operations, its domestic life insurance and retirement services businesses, the ILFC aircraft leasing company and American General Finance, a consumer finance unit. AIG's majority stake in reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings (TRH:TRHNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) is also on the block. AIG's international life insurance and retirement services businesses may be worth as much as $133 billion, while the other businesses for sale may be worth $33 billion, according to estimates by CreditSights, an independent fixed-income research firm. However, that assumes AIG has time to wait for attractive bids and buyers can borrow money to finance some of the acquisitions, Rob Haines, an analyst at CreditSights, wrote in a note to investors on Friday. In a worst-case scenario, AIG could get roughly 40% less, he estimated. 'Competition for asset sales may be challenged by the lack of credit availability in current volatile markets,' Joyce Sharaf and Marc Steinberg, analysts at influential insurance industry rating agency A.M. Best, said Friday. Indeed, the fate of AIG and its shareholders is still partly in the hands of the market and the Federal government. AIG shares rose 2.8% to $4.10 during afternoon trading on Friday. The stock has lost more than 80% of its value in the past month. AIG (AIG:AIGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) was pushed to the brink of bankruptcy by derivative-based guarantees it sold on mortgages and more complex mortgage-related products known as collateralized debt obligations. AIG suffered huge losses on these exposures as the housing market slumped, triggering downgrades by rating agencies. That forced the insurer to post billions of dollars in collateral to its counterparties in the derivatives market. The company couldn't come up with the money, so the government stepped in with its bridge loan last month. In return for that support, AIG was effectively nationalized, with the government taking a stake providing it almost 80% of the voting power in the company.  More than $85 billion? By Tuesday, AIG had already drawn $61 billion of the Fed's $85 billion credit facility. The insurer used more than $50 billion of that to post collateral to counterparties of its struggling derivatives unit, AIG Financial Products, and its securities lending counterparties, plus to pay off commercial paper debt that it couldn't refinance. If credit markets don't improve, or deteriorate more, AIG may have to borrow more money from the Fed. The insurer's new Chief Executive Ed Liddy couldn't rule out having to borrow more than is available under the current $85 billion facility. 'I am not a big fan of the word never,' Liddy said during a conference call with analysts. 'I would really like us to focus on what we can do to stay within those limits and to do well in terms of asset sales so that we don't have to go back.' Alistair Barr is a reporter for MarketWatch in San Francisco.Michael Kitchen is a copy editor for MarketWatch and is based in New York.
