amed Anthony J. DeSantis as President and Chief Executive Officer of its Personal Auto Group. The Personal Auto Group includes aigdirect.com, the direct personal lines automobile insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. (AIG), AIG Agency Auto, which provides personal lines insurance through a network of independent agencies and brokerages throughout the United States, and AIG Hawaii. Based in Wilmington, DE, Mr. DeSantis succeeds Bruce Marlow, who has left the company.Kevin H. Kelley, President of AIG Domestic Personal Lines, commented, 'Tony brings proven leadership and more than 20 years of experience with AIG's personal lines operations. We appreciate Bruce Marlow's contributions over the past year during the integration of AIG Marketing and 21st Century into the Personal Auto Group.'Mr. DeSantis joined AIG in 1986, and has held several management and executive positions in the AIG personal lines companies, including President of AIG Marketing for AIG's direct auto business. He was named Chief Operating Officer of aigdirect.com in September 2007 following the merger with 21st Century Insurance Group. Mr. DeSantis holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Marketing from St. Joseph's University.American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.SOURCE: American International Group, Inc.American International Group, Inc. Joe Norton, 212-770-3144 Director of Public RelationsFor full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 6. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
