TAIPEI -(Dow Jones)- Taiwan's Financial Supervisory Commission said late Sunday the three investment units of American International Group Inc. (AIG) on the island have sound fundamentals, but it will monitor their operations closely. 'The commission will monitor closely the three companies' financial and operation changes, and will take appropriate measures when needed,' the island's top financial regulator said in a statement. AIG said Friday all of its non-insurance businesses are for sale. Outside the U.S., AIG said it wants to keep at least a majority stake in American International Assurance Co., which sells life insurance and retirement products in China, Thailand, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, Indonesia and India. The commission said in the statement that AIG Securities Investment &amp;amp; Trust Co., which manages 12 mutual funds that invest domestically and abroad, has sufficient liquidity. AIG Investment Corp., a fund investment consultant and broker, had more than NT$400 million in net worth, or NT$52.8 per share, at the end of August, and with its sound operations, any change in the shareholding structure shouldn't affect the rights of its clients, the commission said. AIG Wealth Management Services Taiwan, a stock brokerage, has agreed that it will seek the regulator's approval should it need to use funds for other purposes than settlement of stock transactions, the regulator said. The Sunday statement followed another issued by the regulator on Saturday, in which it said Nan Shan Life Insurance Co. has pledged it won't transfer its assets to AIG or any of the U.S. insurer's units without approval from Taiwan's regulator. Taipei-based Nan Shan, a 95%-owned life insurer unit of AIG, has nearly four million clients and is the island's third-largest life insurer by gross premiums. None of the four AIG units in Taiwan are publicly traded. -By Perris Lee Choon Siong, Dow Jones Newswires; +88-62-2502-2557; perris.lee@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=Kok%2BT9O%2Bbu2TK2UqBflUsw%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
