 ANZ National bank still expects to make a billion-dollar-plus profit in New Zealand this fiscal year despite its Australian parent today announced A$1.2 ($1.56) billion of provisions for bad loans in its second half.Some of those provisions are for New Zealand but a breakdown was not given.ANZ shares plunged more than 10 per cent after the bank announced that its annual profit could fall by up to 25 per cent due to the global credit crisis.While affirming that its underlying business was strong and its 2008 cash profit would be over 3 billion Australian dollars (US$2.9 billion), ANZ said it expected a A$1.2 billion (US$1.1 billion) provision charge for bad debts and other write-offs.This adds to a A$980 million (US$938 million) provision booked in the first half of they year.The bank said the losses were expected to drive its annual cash earnings per share down by between 20 and 25 per cent.ANZ National chief executive Graham Hodges today said that while the New Zealand unit of ANZ was increasing provisions, banking in New Zealand generally required lower provisions for bad loans. 'For ANZ National we expect to make more than a billion dollars profit again in 2008 but given the higher provisions and the slowing market we will not really achieve the growth we expected at the start of the year,' he told NZPA. ANZ National made a $610 bottom line profit in New Zealand in the six months to March 31, up 7 per cent on the same period last year. That included a one-off sale of a Visa business.ANZ National resulted from the merger of ANZ in New Zealand and National Bank of New Zealand, a former Lloyds subsidiary.Hodges said the bank generally aimed to increase annual profits in New Zealand by 8 per cent to 10 per cent 'and we won't achieve that'. The bank reported a strong 24 per cent increase in earnings from its institutional division in New Zealand in the first half, primarily from the markets part of the division.Hodges said provisioning in New Zealand had increased from very low levels. 'There's been no particularly large provisions, it is more a reflection of the increased stress that we are seeing in the economy as a result of higher interest rates, petrol prices, food prices etc,' he said. He said provisions for the year would be slightly less than $1 for ever $500 of loans. 'It is about what we would expect to see at this stage of the economic cycle and still very low,' he said. 'I think we are very well provided for,' he said. He said the provisions were across consumer and business lending and not particularly to the property sector. The bank did not have a significant exposure to the property development sector. 'Traditionally the levels of provisions in New Zealand have been less than in Australia and that largely reflects the absence of the very large company sector here. Therefore you have less volatility in provisions.' Hodges said that the bank's cost of funding had increased because deposit rates had gone up, domestic bond markets had gone up and the cost of borrowing internationally had gone up. 'We haven't fully priced through to customers the costs of our overall borrowing increases. Our margin has been squeezed as a result of that,' he said. - NZPA
