 THE market dislocation that caused National Australia Bank's shock $830 million provision last week could infect $4.5 billion of corporate securities held in the same conduit facilities.Analysts speculated that NAB could make a provision of around 10 per cent, or $450 million, against the commercial portfolio. Attention is likely to turn to Melbourne rival ANZ this week. The nation's fourth-biggest bank is expected to update the market on its credit default swap position, possibly as early as today. A Citi report earlier this month nominated ANZ as being most at risk of further 'material' CDS provisions, as the bank was the biggest trader among the Big Four of the securities, which are taken up to hedge credit risk. The NAB conduits or special investment vehicles, established so the bank's customers could obtain finance by selling assets such as trade receivables, were partly seeded by $1.2 billion of collateralised debt obligations -- securities backed by US housing loans. But now, with home foreclosures yielding less than half their mortgage value, NAB on Friday lifted total provisions against the CDOs to $1.01 billion, including a further $181 million set aside earlier this year. With the latest write-down, Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Brown said in a report that provisions against the $4.5 billion of other NAB-purchased assets in the conduits, including corporate securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities, were understood to be 'relatively small'. Mr Brown said it was difficult to determine secondary-market values, but prudence suggested a 10 per cent provision, or $450 million, was appropriate to cover a forced-sale scenario, as opposed to holding the assets to maturity. A NAB spokesman yesterday cast doubt on any comparison between the CDOs and the commercial securities, which mainly comprise leveraged loans of $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in corporate lending. 'The $4.5 billion is more like a commercial portfolio, so it's not part of the dislocation in the US housing market where the performance of AAA securities -- the CDOs -- is far and away from what you'd expect,' he said. Shares in NAB crashed $4.14, or 13.5 per cent, to $26.56 on Friday -- the bank's biggest one-day fall since the October 1987 share-market crash. Senior management came under sustained attack during a one-hour conference call with equity analysts and debt investors, one of whom complained bitterly about a lack of disclosure in the bank's $850 million bond issue that closed the previous day. Later in the day, after discussions between chief executive John Stewart, chief financial officer Mark Joiner and group treasurer Eric Williamson, NAB contacted the 20 institutions that participated in the debt-raising and offered them a get-out option. The option expires today, ahead of the debt issue tomorrow. NAB defended its disclosure practices, but its hand was forced when Standard &amp;amp; Poor's slugged the bank with a negative outlook to its AA credit rating. 'Although we expect the bank to remain profitable in the second half of fiscal 2008, and that the large provision is a one-off event, the negative outlook reflects the risk of further increases in credit costs in the next 12 months,' S&amp;amp;P said. JP Morgan bank analyst Brian Johnson, who attacked the credibility of NAB management on Friday, later released a report, saying: 'We believe this provision will strain NAB's credibility, given the regularity of major adverse events, despite management's protestations that all is well.' 
