 Ratings agencies say three of Australia's big four banks, Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd (CBA) and Westpac Banking Corp (WBC), and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd's (ANZ), will be able to manage any losses from bad debt provisions relating to the credit crunch and have reaffirmed the bank's ratings. Standard &amp;amp; Poor's has said CBA and WBC might experience an increase in bad debt provisions in the short to medium term, but any losses should be easily managed. 'Although there might be an increase in provisions in the second half of fiscal 2008 due to a softening in the credit cycle, we believe that credit losses for both banks will remain in line with our expectations,' S&amp;amp;P said. 'Standard &amp;amp; Poor's expects that both banks will continue to rigorously monitor and manage their credit exposures, funding, and liquidity in the face of challenging conditions in global financial markets, and maintain appropriate capitalisation.' S&amp;amp;P has reiterated its AA long term and A-1-plus short term ratings on CBA and WBC, with stable outlooks, after reviewing their likely credit losses in the short to medium term. Meanwhile, Moody's Investors Service has said ANZ ratings were not affected by its announcement of likely provisions totalling $1.2 billion for the 2008 fiscal year. ANZ is rated Aa1 / Prime-1 for deposits and debt and its Bank Financial Strength rating (BFSR) is B and the rating outlook remains stable, said the agency. 'ANZ's increased provisions, while significant, remain compatible with its current rating level,' said Moody's senior vice president Patrick Winsbury. 'The bank's capital initiatives and decision to increase its collective provision to above one per cent of risk-weighted assets provide a somewhat of a buffer against the current downturn,' said Mr Winsbury. Moody's said although ANZ's asset quality is deteriorating, it is off a strong base after many years of very favourable credit conditions, and moreover, the bank's new provisions relate to previously disclosed credit exposures. The trend is positive from a franchise perspective, said Moody's. 'ANZ has been able to gain market share in Australia, particularly in retail deposits and corporate lending as credit market turmoil have affected competitors,' the agency said. The agency said ANZ was more weakly positioned in its rating band, and to keep the stable outlook on the BFSR, it would need to maintain its liquid asset levels, not increase its reliance on short-term wholesale funding (Tier 1 capital would need to be maintained at well over seven per cent and impaired and past due loans could not increase over 20 per cent of capital and loan loss reserves) and have no more significant charges to earnings emerge relating to its credit intermediation trades and wholesale loan books. 
