 AUSTRALIA'S major banks have been heavily targeted for short selling by international hedge funds, ANZ chief executive Mike Smith says. 'It has probably been exacerbated by the US ban on shorting 19 major financial stocks,' Mr Smith said in an interview with The Australian yesterday. On July 15 the US Securities and Exchange Commission announced an emergency rule banning short selling in a wide range of US stocks, including mortgage originators Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to stabilise volatile prices in a battered sector. The rule was extended last night. 'There are a huge number of hedge funds in the US and Britain and there are two reasons why they are coming here and selling our bank stocks down,' Mr Smith said. 'One is that our market is actually pretty thin and our institutional investors are too constrained by their performance against the share market indices to take the shorts on.' Short selling occurs when investors and speculators sell shares they do not own, usually borrowing shares to cover their risk, with the aim of subsequently buying the shares 'back' once their price has dropped. 'In the US and Hong Kong, for instance, you have people who are prepared to take a punt' against the short sellers, 'but that doesn't seem to happen in Australia'. The other reason for the shorting was that Australian banks had higher price-earnings ratios than US and British banks, whose ratios were in 'low single figures -- almost nothing', he said, compared with our banks, which were on prospective ratios of nine or 10. 'I don't think people in Australia have any idea of how fundamentally strong our banking sector is,' he said, adding that until last week ANZ had the same market capitalisation as Lloyds and Barclays banks in Britain, and one-third the capitalisation of US giant Citigroup. 'I've got no real issue with shorting. It's a fact of life and adds value at some stage in the cycle,' he said, adding quickly that this might not be the time. 'Now the play is all one way.' Mr Smith, who late last week had to make a $1.4 billion increase in provisions because of problems at clients such as Bill Express, Opes Prime and Lift Capital's Primebroker Securities unit, said trading in Australian bank stocks was 'all driven by activity and not fundamentals'. ANZ's share price, which hit a peak of $31.55 on October 11 last year, was forced down on huge volume by more than 10 per cent on Monday to $15.81, its biggest percentage drop since the share market crash of 1987. ANZ rose 57c to close at $16.10 yesterday. Mr Smith, an Englishman who had a long career with HSBC in Hong Kong and Asia, said his one strong objection to shorting was when there had been market manipulation. 'We see it pretty regularly that if there's a lot of short selling in a stock, you'll often find it's followed by a negative story in a newspaper.' That was probably illegal, he said. The worst-hit bank victims of short selling had been Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS, whose rights issues had both been badly disrupted by short sellers, he said. HBOS's pound stg. 4 billion ($8.35 billion) rights issue was described by The Observer as a 'massive flop', as most of the stock ended up in the hands of underwriters Dresdner and Morgan Stanley. Short sellers had not only driven down the stock in rights trading but then covered their short positions by buying the stock back from the underwriters, who were left with major stock overhangs because of the poor support for the issues, he said. 
