 Qatar Telecom (QTel), the Gulf emirates phone monopoly, cannot own more than 49 per cent of PT Indosat, Indonesias second-largest phone operator, the South East Asian countrys market regulator says.QTel agreed on June 7 to pay US$1.76 billion (Dh6.46bn) to buy a 40.8 per cent stake in Indosat and offered on June 26 to purchase the rest of Indosat for 7,388 Indonesian rupiah (Dh2.97) a share. The Indonesian government set a 49 per cent limit on foreign ownership of fixed-line phone companies last year, and a 65 per cent cap for mobile phone operators.That limits the number of shares that investors can sell at the 15 per cent premium to Fridays closing price of 6,400 rupiah.We have sent a letter to Qatar Telecom that their holding is capped at 49 per cent, said Ahmad Fuad Rahmany, the head of Indonesias Capital Markets and Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency, known as Bapepam. QTel said on June 23 that it had completed buying a 40.8 per cent stake in Indosat from Asia Mobile Holdings, the Qatari companys venture with a wholly owned unit of Temasek Holdings, Singapores state-owned investment company and sovereign wealth fund.On June 26, QTel said it planned to launch a tender offer to buy 44.9 per cent of Indosat, a move triggered by its $1.8bn acquisition of another 40.8 per cent of the company.The Indosat deal would give QTel a strong foothold in Indonesia, the worlds fourth most populous country. Indonesia has a mobile phone penetration rate of less than 30 per cent, much lower than its neighbours.At the time, analysts said the deal was unlikely to end up with much more than 50 per cent of Indosat. Our view is that there will be some take-up of the offer, but not a full subscription, Nick Cashmore, of CLSA in Jakarta, told the Financial Times. The long-term mobile telecoms story in Indonesia is still very attractive.Last Monday, PT Indosat said it would reshuffle its management after QTel acquired control of the Indonesian phone company.Indosat received a letter from its new controlling shareholder requesting a change in the board of directors and the board of commissioners, said Johnny Swandi Sjam, the Indosat president, last week. The board of commissioners comprises officials hired to represent major shareholders, and is tasked with supervising the management.We will discuss with our board of commissioners on the timing of the shareholders meeting to get approval for the proposed changes, Mr Swandi said at the time.Meanwhile, the government of Qatar is now the largest investor in Barclays bank, the UKs third-largest finance house. Barclays advanced the most in 16 years on Friday, giving instant gratification to investors who bought stock in a sale shunned by 81 per cent of shareholders.Barclays rose 10.2 per cent, the biggest gain since September 1992, to 320.25 pence in London trading after Citigroups smaller than estimated loss sparked a global banking rally. Barclays agreed last month to replenish depleted capital by selling shares to an investor group including the Qatar Investment Authority. John Varley, the chief executive of Barclays, was among about 19 per cent of the banks existing shareholders who exercised rights to take back some of that stock, even though he had a 5.4 per cent paper loss on Wednesday, the day before the offering expired as Barclays traded near a 10-year low.Barclays bypassed the investment banks that typically underwrite such stock sales, using guarantees from the QIA, Temasek Holdings and the New York-based hedge fund GLG Partners. The banks shareholders were offered stock at 282 pence a share, the same price as guarantors. Most investors avoided the deal because they could buy shares for less on the open market this week.
