 Still, they say, the U.S. government can help shore up confidence in the mortgage giants by making a 'grand gesture' of support. But for now, there is 'no immediate need for the GSEs to raise capital,' Ajay Rajadhyaksha, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Barclays Capital, wrote in a report. 'We believe they should to protect against future credit losses, but the stock-price action seems to suggest that all is over unless they raise capital immediately. That is just not the case.' For one thing, Fannie Mae (FNM:FNMNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) and Freddie Mac (FRE:FRENews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) have had no trouble issuing debt lately, including this week's sales of discount notes, a form of short-term debt, noted Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse. 'Discount-note demand has appeared to be relatively strong, though there is slightly more risk premium built into that over the course of the week,' he said on a conference call. A higher premium means investors demanded greater yield to buy the debt. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were able to issue short-term debt this week at yields within a reasonable range of the benchmark rate, he said. The gap with the London Interbank Offered rate, or Libor, has stayed within the range of the past nine months. Shares of Fannie are down about 80% over the past 12 months, while Freddie's shares have nearly 90%, so offering stock may not muster much cash. However, the agencies can still issue debt, when it becomes more favorable. 'Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue to have unsurpassed access to the capital markets,' Barclays strategists wrote. 'Fannie Mae has more than sufficient capital to weather any adverse credit marks in 2008. There is no reason Freddie cannot wait for more stable market conditions. In the meantime, the analysts backed the pronouncements of Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson that the government-sponsored enterprises have adequate capital, based on the measure that applies to the agencies. 'As of the end of the first quarter, both had liquidity on their balance sheets and could go a number of weeks' without issuing short-term securities, as they do regularly, Jersey said. 'It appears to us that they have at least a few quarters of regulatory capital,' including the recently ended second quarter because the companies haven't reported for that period yet. As of March 31, 2008, Fannie Mae had $42.7 billion in core capital, which represented a $5.1 billion surplus over the requirements of its regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, according to Barclays. Freddie Mac also raised $7.4 billion in May, bringing its aggregate surplus capital to roughly $15.6 billion by the third quarter. Suggestions for government However, if the government wanted to indicate more than just verbal support, it has some options that are far less involved than taking over the GSEs, which own or guarantee about $5 trillion in debt -- about half of all outstanding U.S. mortgages. Many investors believe sponsorship means implicitly that the U.S. would pay up in the unlikely event that the agencies defaulted on their debt, even though that guarantee is not officially stated. 'The GSEs at some point may very well need some type of government intervention, but that doesn't necessarily mean the government will take them over,' Jersey said. 'The next few years should be bright for both GSE businesses. Unlike most financial institutions that have seen their revenue streams disappear, the GSEs are in the unique position of seeing their competition wither away.' - Ajay Rajadhyaksha, Barclays Capital One option would be having the Federal Reserve create a credit line similar to the ones it has offered to banks since December and primary dealers since March, initiated in the aftermath of the Bear Stearns takeover by J.P. Morgan (JPM:JPMNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) . Another idea is revising the line of credit the agencies already have with the Treasury Department to an amount that would be more meaningful given the growth in the entities. 'Raising the $2 billion line of credit to a respectable $50 [billion] or $100 billion would go a long way toward restoring the luster of the 'implicit guarantee,' ' Barclays strategists said. 'This is obviously a less drastic step than Treasury explicitly guaranteeing GSE debt.' Longer term, analysts also point out, Fannie and Freddie are actually in unusually good business positions, since the subprime-mortgage collapse and its aftermath eliminated almost all other potential buyers of mortgage debt. 'Even if the line of credit is not changed, we believe that GSE senior debt is money good,' Rajadhyaksha said. 'The guarantee business is now virtually a monopoly, with the collapse of the non-agency mortgage market. This not only leads to rapid growth but also very strong pricing power. 'Hence, the next few years should be bright for both GSE businesses. Unlike most financial institutions that have seen their revenue streams disappear, the GSEs are in the unique position of seeing their competition wither away, and their margins on both the guaranty business and the portfolio business expand.' NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have plenty of access to capital and are far from insolvent, despite what's happening to their stocks, according to analysts at two bond-trading firms.
