 HBOS headquarters in Halifax, West Yorkshire, England. Photograph: Christopher ThomondCity institutions were nursing heavy losses last night after the 4bn cash call by high street bank HBOS suffered the embarrassment of registering the lowest support ever recorded for a fundraising by a major company. A cash call that has mesmerised the City for 57 days, culminated in only 8.29% of HBOS shareholders supporting the rights issue. As a result, Dresdner Kleinwort and Morgan Stanley, the two City banks which have guaranteed HBOS the funds in return for fees of about 90m, were yesterday forced to try to sell 3.8bn of unwanted shares on the stockmarket.They gave up after finding buyers for 1.2bn worth, almost 30% of the new shares being issued. The underwriters were still left with 62%, or 2.5bn worth of shares, to take on to their books or spread out among the major financial houses that had agreed to act as a second line of guarantee as sub-underwriters. The underwriters were obliged to place the shares at 275p, the price of the rights issue. But, HBOS shares closed at 264.5p last night, suggesting paper losses of up to 140m for the City. The underwriters had been expected to have to play a crucial role in the fundraising for a number of weeks after the lender's share price plunged on worries about the economy, the housing market and potential credit crunch write-downs on investments. HBOS shareholders were left with little incentive to support the rights issue which, when it was announced on April 29, was priced at a 50% discount to the share price.Volatility in bank shares last week - the likes of HBOS, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB gyrated wildly - could not have come at a worse moment for HBOS. Just as its shareholders were making their decision about whether to support the cash call, its shares slumped to 225p.Despite its shareholders' refusal to back the rights issue, HBOS reckoned it was the correct way to raise funds. Barclays avoided conducting a rights issue and relied on new overseas investors to provide capital after only 19% of its investors backed its fundraising last week.The City has largely put the low uptake for the rights issue down to a wider market malaise, although some shareholders were last night beginning to discuss the role of the HBOS management, led by chief executive Andy Hornby. The bank's interim results next week could prove crucial in investors' long-term reaction.A spokesman for HBOS said: 'Rights issues are the least worst way of raising extra cash. The advantage of a rights issue is that, first and foremost, all shareholders are treated equally.' This was particularly important for HBOS because it has more retail investors than any other company on the stockmarket, a legacy of its Halifax component's days as a building society. It has 2.1 million private investors, who were always going to prove sceptical about the cash call. But the underwriters have been left with even more stock than feared because major City institutions also stayed away.Many agreed to act as sub-underwriters, while some were thought to have also bought shares during the placing of the unwanted stock, known as the rump.It is thought the underwriters have passed on between 40% and 50% of their liabilities. Even so, Dresdner Kleinwort and Morgan Stanley could each still be sitting on 770m stakes in HBOS, which has a stock market value of 14bn after the issue of new shares.Morgan Stanley admitted it had taken out a short position worth 2.3% of HBOS on Friday, just after the rights issue closed, which will help reduce its exposure to HBOS shares. Its total exposure is thought to be below the 3% threshold at which stakes must be disclosed to the market.The underwriters tried to put a floor under the price yesterday. Dresdner said: 'We see value in the shares and are not under pressure to sell.' When the part privatisation of BP floundered during the stockmarket crash of 1987, the overhang of shares weighed on the share price for months.Despite the lack of investor support, HBOS was unrepentant: 'The bottom line for us is we have raised 4bn of capital that we set out to do. Just as ships need more ballast in heavy seas, banks need more capital for tougher economic times,' the bank's spokesman said.The fresh funds will be used to bolster HBOS's capital base and give it a core tier-one ratio - the figure used by regulators to measure a bank's financial strength - of between 6% and 7%. This is higher than rivals Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, which has raised a record-breaking 12bn.
