 BANKWEST, the $8 billion-plus local arm of Britain's biggest mortgage lender HBOS, appears headed for the auction block, with the beleaguered parent's pound stg. 4 billion ($8.2 billion) rights issue looking like closing heavily undersubscribed.HBOS shareholders had to decide in London last night whether to take up their entitlements, and the bank will determine the level of participation over the weekend. However, after a short-selling attack by hedge fund Harbinger Capital, the stock has been trading well below the 275p issue price, making it likely that underwriters to the deal, investment banks Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort, will be left to absorb a significant shortfall. HBOS will get its cash, but market participants were speculating yesterday that the bank could be forced to sell assets to address a crisis of confidence arising from investors snubbing the fourth-largest rights issue in British corporate history. In a report earlier this month, Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Brown nominated Commonwealth Bank as the best prospect to pay an estimated $8.7 billion for HBOS Australia, which includes the dominant West Australian retail bank BankWest. A local banker, noting recent commentary by HBOS chief executive Andy Hornby that the Australian business was not for sale, said yesterday that the British parent would probably deny the existence of any plans to sell assets 'until they're blue in the face'. 'But there will come a time when they have to do something, and there's really only one bank in Australia at the moment that could do a deal, and that's CBA,' he said. 'CBA probably wouldn't want the whole bank, just BankWest, but HBOS wouldn't want to be left with the remainder.' Any deal, he said, would require an equity issue priced at an estimated 25 per cent discount to the current CBA share price. Earlier this week, CBA chief executive Ralph Norris ruled out any interest in acquiring St George Bank, which Westpac has targeted in a $14 billion all-scrip offer. 'We have no intention of getting involved in that transaction,' he told a business lunch in Adelaide on Wednesday. Mr Norris has not made any public comment about BankWest. However, he has previously expressed doubts about the track record of mergers in the financial services industry, viewing them as opportunities for rivals to cherry-pick customers unless both brands are maintained. BankWest, with its strong exposure to the booming WA economy, is regarded as one of the parent's more attractive assets. It is currently in the middle of a growth phase, after announcing plans in July last year to build 160 new retail and business branches. In February, two months before Mr Hornby launched the pound stg. 4 billion rights issue, HBOS Australia reported a 15 per cent increase in underlying profit before tax in 2007 to $757 million. Chief executive David Willis said HBOS remained committed to the Australian expansion. 'Our sense is that Australia becomes more significant strategically because we are demonstrating the growth that the group is looking for,' he said. National Australia Bank has also been associated with speculation surrounding the future of HBOS Australia, as well as the parent. NAB representatives reportedly met with advisory firms in June, when the board met in London, regarding a possible bid. While suggestions that NAB could merge with the parent have also surfaced, this is regarded as even less likely. NAB said last Friday it was assessing a possible purchase of investment bank ABN AMRO's Australian and New Zealand businesses, thought to be worth around $750 million. CBA is also regarded as a possible buyer. 
