 A quiet weekend, this past one was certainly not. After last Friday evening's post-market post-mortem 'R.I.P.' declaration and takeover of California-based IndyMac Bank, the Treasury, the Fed, and the SEC spent their two days of rest...at work.The results of their laboring overtime were evident in the outcome: the failed IndyMac Bank will reopen today with the word 'Federal' inserted into its name, and the other two institutions that appeared less than sound will have access to any kind of money that will keep them functioning, for as long as needed. Thus Freddie and Fannie will live see another day, and year.The US monetary officials' extraordinary weekend bailout and shoring-up activities harked back to the mid-March days of the Bear Stearns short-circuit. Clearly, the holders of half of the mortgage debt in the US were not going to be let to just slip away in the quicksand that has been stepped into by firm after firm since about one year ago. Moreover, the SEC has stepped into the fray, and is actively looking for firms and individuals who may have spread false rumours about the integrity of financial institutions.Amid rising apprehensions about failures, analysts have projected about 100 US banks to bite the dust per year for the next two or three. To put that into perspective, there are about 7.500 financial firms in the US, and back in the S&amp;amp;L $150 billion crisis, about 1,000 firms closed shop.Whether or nor such first-aid actions will be interpreted by the markets this coming week as sheer resolve, or futile leaky dike-plugging exercises by the authorities, remains to be seen. One certain thing is that Dr. Bernanke might have a more pleasant time were he to be facing the Spanish Inquisition instead of Congress this week. Finally, the financial packages which have been cobbled together for the doomed or nearly-doomed trio could either prove to de dollar-supportive and hurt gold (as they did after its March peak) or ignite a wave of wave of selling which could push it down to the 1.60 floor once again.Disagreement continues to manifest itself as to the dollar's next track. Lehman Bros. London chief currency guru Jim McCormick sees 'A solid case for a dollar uptrend. Should commodity prices ease, the market focus is likely to rapidly shift away from inflation concerns and towards growth, and on this metric, the dollar is beginning to look far better [than the euro].'Another expert, Bill Gross, the oft-quoted manager of the biggest bond fund on the planet, has now turned bearish on the euro for the first time since the unified currency made its debut back in 1999. The euro is seen as falling to between 1.30 to 1.45 by year's end, based on Euro-zone economic weakening. The Big Mac index shows the price of a burger is now nearly 25% higher across the Atlantic and has given some traders all the euro-selling signals they need. However, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking's chief economist envisions the dollar coming to the critical 1.599 pivot point this very week.In overnight trade, the dollar's first reaction after the Paulson plan announcement for Freddie and Fannie was to rise. the Financial Times relays that: 'The idea that policymakers would prompt a run on the dollar and US debt markets as they try to shore up the GSEs is unthinkable, analysts warn.' Ajay Rajadhyaksha, head of US fixed income strategy at Barclays Capital in New York, said: I dont see any circumstance where the senior agency debt would default. A default would call into question the full faith and credit of the US government. Thus, oil first gave way, and gold dropped as well. The yellow metal visited lows near $953 overnight.New York spot gold trading opened the week on a lower note, losing $8.60 at $956 per ounce as participants await the reception that a $3 billion securities offering from Freddie will get in the marketplace today. Focus was still on the dollar (at 72.22 on the index and at 1.585 against the euro) but declining oil (down $1.39 to $143.70) also assisted in gold's slippage early in the session. Silver lost 24 cents to $18.60 while platinum was off $24 at $1994 and palladium dropped $1 to $448 per ounce respectively. Continued...
