  By Philip Aldrick and Katherine Griffiths Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley shares tumbled to new lows today, dropping further below the 55p-a-share price of its 400m rights issue, as the City speculated that the buy-to-let lender is worthless.The group's stock plunged more than 22pc to just 32.5p in early trading this morning. The slide follows a wave of investor concerns yesterday, after Pali International, a stockbroker, cut its target price for the bank to 'zero' and calculated B&amp;amp;B's 'net present value' to be -14p. In a separate note, banking specialist Fox-Pitt, Kelton said: 'We cannot rule out the possibility of an effective failure with shareholders receiving little or nothing for their shares.' This came in the wake of last week's Moody's downgrade and decision by TPG to pull its planned 179m investment. In frantic efforts to keep B&amp;amp;B's capital raising on track, four of its core shareholders stepped in to support an enlarged 400m rights issue alongside the six largest high street banks.Leigh Goodwin, an analyst at Fox-Pitt, reduced his share price target to 43p, is 'forecasting losses by 2010' and raised questions about whether 'B&amp;amp;B is going to be Northern Rock in slow motion'. He added: 'The downgrades and publicity surrounding the stock will almost certainly lead to increased funding and liquidity pressures.' B&amp;amp;B, which declined to comment, has stressed it is not another Northern Rock as it has funding in place until early 2009.Bruce Packard at Pali said: 'We believe deposit holders' money is safe but from a shareholder perspective... the investment is unattractive.' B&amp;amp;B has about 21bn of retail deposits.Moody's heaped more woe on the bank yesterday by demanding remedial action over its 13bn securitised funding vehicle, Aire Valley Master Trust. The measures taken are expected to reduce annual cash flow by up to 50m, eating into last year's 407m positive cash flow from operating activities.Bankers said the rescue rights issue was little more than a 'sticking plaster' and that a permanent solution would either involve B&amp;amp;B's sale to a rival or being put into 'run-off' and the 40bn mortgage book gradually sold off. Mr Packard expects the book to be shrunk by 5pc a year until 2012, to around 30bn. HSBC, Lloyds TSB, HBOS, Barclays, Abbey and Royal Bank of Scotland are likely to end up with a combined 33pc stake in B&amp;amp;B after committing to sub-underwrite 230m of the rights issue.Standard Life, Legal &amp;amp; General, Prudential and Insight - B&amp;amp;B shareholders that own 13pc of the lender - are stepping up for 120m. In a circular to investors, B&amp;amp;B stressed that, unlike last time, the contract with the underwriters 'does not give [them] an express right to terminate the agreement if there is a credit rating downgrade'. The underwriting group, led by Citigroup and UBS, will be paid 19m at a fee of 4.75pc - the same as the previous rights issue. It added that 'there has been no material change in the current trading and outlook of the company since [updating the market for the] first four months of 2008 on June 2, 2008'.
