 LONDON - Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co.'s shocking writedown ratchets up pressure on other banks to cut the value of their own subprime assets just as they grapple with the prospect of bad debts from a traditional economic downturn.The global turmoil -- roughly a year under way -- could cause total damages to balance sheets of about US$1-trillion, a number of recent estimates show, up from more than US$400-billion of writedowns that banks have taken so far.Merrill's warning heightened concern that more pain is to come from Citigroup Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and other U. S. banks and UBS AG, Barclays PLCand others in Europe. 'The round of writedowns is obviously going to be bigger than where we are now and a long-tail event. It could be one or two years from now before we have a final number,' a credit analyst said.Most of Merrill's latest hit came from a firesale of US$30.6-billion of collateralised loan obligations (CDOs) -- bonds backed by portfolios of mortgages that are broken down into tranches by degrees of risk -- for just US$6.7-billion, or about US22 on the dollar.That spooked investors that rivals will need to lower their marks again on similar assets, and prompted analysts and investors to pencil in a bleaker worst-case scenario. 'Whereas previously we had assumed US$22-billion of additional possible writedowns for the large European banks, this is now US$58-billion in our revised stress test,' Stuart Graham, an analyst at Merrill Lynch in London, said in a note.That means Europe's banks are 77% of the way through the toxic writedowns, compared with a previous estimate that they were 85% through, he said. 'It does create an issue for other banks,' said Michael Hampden-Turner, a credit strategist at Citigroup. 'It means that other buyers out there are going to use this as a reference point in negotiations for any future sales of CDOs.' 'The question is: To what extent does US22 constitute fair value or the price at which a bank could offload a huge volume of very distressed assets?' The quality of assets on balance sheets remains hard to judge from the outside, and such banks as Barclays claim its assets are better quality, as they are older vintages, less risky and better hedged.European and some U. S. commercial banks are also better placed to hold on to the assets and will be under less pressure than Merrill to sell, analysts said.But investors have shown they are in an unforgiving mood, especially after Merrill's blow came just two weeks after it unveiled a US$9-billion writedown. 'The current environment is not one where people are prepared to give the benefit of the doubt. There's a broad loss of confidence in banks, and it's hard to correct and re-establish in the short term,' said Gerry Rawcliffe, group credit officer for financial institutions at Fitch Ratings.Any more big hits would further stretch bank balance sheets just as they face a sharply slowing global economy, which is expected to cut growth in most regions. 'The deterioration in bank asset quality remains the key issue,' said Vivek Tawadey, head of credit strategy at BNP Paribas in London. 'The market is still pricing in a broad-based earnings recovery in the second half of this year and next, which to me is not obvious given the housing market, the consumer and the macro environment.' That in turn will have an impact on banks' lending and risk strategies. 'The net impact on banks is that they become much more cautious on their activities,' Mr. Hampden-Turner said. 'If you are a homeowner, it is harder to refinance. If you are a company, you can't borrow money as before. 'The large scale of the losses does alter banks' behaviour and deepens recession,' he said. Pacific Investment Management Co. last week estimated that global banks would face US$1-trillion in cumulative losses from the credit crisis and related decline in asset prices.
