 LONDON (Dow Jones) -- HBOS, the U.K.'s biggest mortgage lender, said Monday that shareholders had bought just 8.3% of the shares available in its 4 billion pound ($8 billion) rights issue, and underwriters were largely unsuccessful in their quest to find buyers for the remaining stock. HBOS said that 932 million shares remain unsold after both the bank and its underwriters -- led by Morgan Stanley (MS) and the Dresdner Kleinwort unit of Germany's Allianz (AZ) -- couldn't find many buyers for the stock at 275 pence each. In an afternoon update, HBOS said the underwriters found investors for another 29.5% of the issue on top of the 8.3% of the bank's existing shareholder base that accepted the fund-raising offer. Morgan Stanley, Dresdner and any other banks that they have lined up to back the deal will have to subscribe for the remaining stock. HBOS shares ended over 6% lower, closing at 265 pence each as investors feared that the underwriters would dump a glut of shares onto the market. The stock has dropped more than 70% in the last year as the U.K. housing market has weakened and mortgage lending volumes have slumped. The stock had rebounded slightly to close at 282 pence on Friday, but the move was too late to spark significant interest in the offering. Last Wednesday, when many institutional investors would have been making a final decision on the rights issue, the stock dropped as low as 225 pence -- the lowest level since the group's Halifax arm first listed in 1997. While HBOS, which has about a 20% share of the U.K. mortgage market, is guaranteed to receive the 4 billion pounds it needs, the problems with its rights issue and difficulties for other U.K. banks could make underwriters nervous about backing future capital-raising efforts in the sector. Shareholders of troubled mortgage lender Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley approved its rights issue of 400 million pounds late last week, only after two earlier attempts to raise the cash fell apart. In Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley's case, major shareholders have publicly agreed to back the rights issue, and underwriters have spread the risk of having to buy up the remaining shares. And on Friday, Barclays (BCS) said shareholders had applied for just 19% of the 1.4 billion shares it's issuing as part of a 4.5 billion pound fundraising. In Barclays case, however, the bank had already agreed to sell the remaining shares to new and existing investors in Asia and the Middle East. (END) Dow Jones Newswires 07-21-081300ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. 
