 INVESTORS wiped $16.2 billion from the nation's big four banking stocks yesterday after National Australia Bank announced a shock $830million loss arising from the continuing meltdown in the US housing sector.NAB chief executive John Stewart said that in 30 years of banking, he had never experienced anything like the recent collapse in US house prices, with some foreclosures of prime mortgages yielding less than half of the outstanding bank loan. Mr Stewart said he had thought that the March bailout of US investment bank Bear Stearns would be the low point, but the crisis had worsened and spread to prime mortgages, forcing NAB to protect itself against a worst-case scenario. 'Unfortunately, the behaviour of the US housing market leads us to believe the worst case might not be too far away from the most likely scenario,' he said. As bank share prices sagged, other lenders distanced themselves from the NAB debacle, which dwarfs the $360 million foreign currency options scandal in 2004 that led to Mr Stewart's elevation after chief executive Frank Cicutto and chairman Charles Allen fell on their swords. NAB said its provision arose from an exposure to complex debt instruments called collateralised debt obligations, or securities backed by US housing and other loans. The CDOs, in turn, were held in so-called conduit vehicles, set up by NAB to enable customers to obtain finance by selling assets such as trade receivables, car loans and mortgages. Mr Stewart said that unlike the bank's forex misadventure, no executive heads would roll, given that credit-rating agencies had accorded the CDOs a gold-plated AAA rating, consistent with a one in 10,000 chance of default. 'It's very hard to say that buying AAA assets with a tiny chance of default is reckless; it's actually not,' he said. 'In the same circumstances again, we'd probably make that decision.' To do otherwise, he said, would mean NAB could not lend to any Australian corporates, all of which are rated below AAA. Shares in the nation's second-biggest bank ended down $4.14, or 13.5 per cent, at $26.56 - its worst one-day fall since October 1987 when the stock lost 18.9 per cent. Commonwealth Bank was down 6.8 per cent to $43.25, ANZ shed 8.7 per cent to $17.75 and Westpac fell 3 per cent to $22.09. The losses dragged the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index down 3.4 per cent to 4970.5 points - its biggest one-day fall in six months. When the sub-prime crisis began unfolding last August, the big four, including NAB, said they had no direct sub-prime exposure, which is the riskiest end of the US market populated in many cases by borrowers with no credit history or employment. Then-federal treasurer Peter Costello acknowledged last August that there had been a very high level of defaults in some parts of the US sub-prime market. 'But I have no doubt whatsoever that the consequences of that will not reflect back on Australian institutions, nor undermine their very, very secure financial standing,' he said. Mr Stewart yesterday stood by NAB's commentary at the time, noting that the crisis had now moved well beyond sub-prime. 'We do not own the conduit (housing the CDOs); it's owned by investors,' he said. He said NAB had started backing the conduits with funding only after they could no longer get independent access to frozen US debt markets. The bank's provision is the second sub-prime-related shock announced by a major domestic bank, following ANZ's announcement in February that it faced potential losses of $US200million from a complex deal with a US insurer of large corporate debt. Both revelations caused significant shockwaves for the local financial sector, even though sub-prime-related losses in Australia account for a tiny proportion of an estimated $US400billion in global bank losses so far. 
