 Barclays took the road less traveled and it seems to have paid off. Having to raise new capital is rarely seen as a good sign, but any banks considering what to do after multi-billion dollar investment write-downs might want to look to Barclays. The tepid take up by Barclays (nyse: BCS - news - people ) shareholders of its 4.5 billion pound ($9.0 billion) share issue was shrugged off by the market, with its shares up 7.4%, or $1.76, to close at $25.53 in New York on Friday. Shareholders agreed to buy just 19.0% of new shares issued by the bank, Barclays said in a statement on Friday. But that doesn't really matter for Barclays. The remaining shares will be issued to a number of institutional investors including the Qatar Investment Authority, which now becomes Barclays' biggest shareholder. Others who agreed to participate in the pre-placement of shares include Challenger, the investment vehicle for Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, the chairman of Qatar Holding, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Japan's third-largest bank. China Development Bank and Singaporean sovereign wealth fund Temasek, which acquired stakes in Barclays when it was bidding for ABN Amro are also participating. (See  ) Barclays is raising capital after 1.7 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) in supbrime-related investment write-downs which took its  capital ratio, below its target level of 5.25%. Fears that the bank could go down the route of a rights issue, or struggle to find investors have proved unfounded. There were also concerns that Barclays could struggle to coordinate the pre-placement of shares with such a large number of institutional investors. (See  ) 'It was a very well structured and intelligent way of raising capital, it avoided the pitfalls that have been associated with rights issues,' said Mamoun Tazi, analyst at MF Global. 'Barclays gave the opportunity to existing shareholders and filled the void with new investors.' Barclays has developed a unique model, according to Sandy Chen of Panmure Gordon. While European banks have largely gone down the path of rights issues, banks in the United States have opted for the pre-placement of shares, without first putting the offer to existing shareholders. 'If there are further capital raising initiatives there will be a temptation to look at the way that Barclays has raised it,' Chen told Forbes.com. 
