 LONDON (Reuters) - Britains largest banks could be left with over a quarter of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley , sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday, as the troubled banks shares fell further below the price of a planned rights issue.With pressure growing on regulators and the broader banking sector to avoid a repeat of the damaging collapse of rival lender Northern Rock last year, the sources said six clearing banks had agreed to back B&amp;amp;Bs underwriters. 'It is in everyones interest that there is confidence in the market,' one of the sources said.HSBC , Lloyds TSB , HBOS , Barclays , Abbey and Royal Bank of Scotland have agreed to sub-underwrite about half of the banks planned 400 million pound rights issue, sources said.That would leave the banks holding over 30 percent of its enlarged share base, based on its current market value of around 220 million pounds and the capital injection.The offer is fully underwritten by Citi and UBS, and four of B&amp;amp;Bs top shareholders are estimated to be sub-underwriting 145 million pounds of the total. The offer is open until mid-August.But concerns over B&amp;amp;Bs future beyond the cash call .....continued belowstartsends and the impact of a deteriorating economy took shares in Britains largest buy-to-let lender even lower on Tuesday.At 2:30 p.m., the shares were down 16 percent at 35.25p after sinking to a record low of 31p, well below its rights issue price of 55p. B&amp;amp;B was forced to overhaul its rights issue plan last week for a third time, after a downgrade from rating agency Moodys prompted U.S. private equity investor TPG to pull out from buying a stake. TPG had been brought in just weeks earlier, when the bank slashed its rights issue price as trading conditions deteriorated.Under the newly enlarged deal, the bank will pay 55 million pounds in underwriting fees and legal expenses. 'This third attempt at a rights issue looks like a dogs breakfast... We can only hope that the management of this beleaguered mortgage lender and its advisors have plan B in place,' David Buik at Cantor Index said in a morning note. 'Hopefully it will take the shape of a white knight in shining armour who will sweep up this damsel in distress, removing any possibility of further embarrassment to the banking sector in the market place.' Finding a suitor, though, could be tough as the economy continues to deteriorate. Bankers said a buyer is unlikely to come forward unless B&amp;amp;Bs situation worsens further and it is practically given away in a forced sale.Entrepreneur Clive Cowdery, who tried to gatecrash the TPG deal with his own plan to inject 400 million pounds through vehicle Resolution, has indicated he is not preparing to return after walking away late last month.Smaller rival Skipton, a building society, said it had looked at B&amp;amp;B but confirmed on Tuesday that it was no longer interested in making an offer.(Additional reporting by Mathieu Robbins and Daisy Ku; Editing by David Cowell and Sue Thomas) LONDON (Reuters) - Britains largest banks could be left with over a quarter of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley , sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday, as the troubled banks shares fell further below the price of a planned rights issue.With pressure growing on regulators and the broader banking sector to avoid a repeat of the damaging collapse of rival lender Northern Rock last year, the sources said six clearing banks had agreed to back B&amp;amp;Bs underwriters. 'It is in everyones interest that there is confidence in the market,' one of the sources said.HSBC , Lloyds TSB , HBOS , Barclays , Abbey and Royal Bank of Scotland have agreed to sub-underwrite about half of the banks planned 400 million pound rights issue, sources said.That would leave the banks holding over 30 percent of its enlarged share base, based on its current market value of around 220 million pounds and the capital injection.The offer is fully underwritten by Citi and UBS, and four of B&amp;amp;Bs top shareholders are estimated to be sub-underwriting 145 million pounds of the total. The offer is open until mid-August.But concerns over B&amp;amp;Bs future beyond the cash call and the impact of a deteriorating economy took shares in Britains largest buy-to-let lender even lower on Tuesday.At 2:30 p.m., the shares were down 16 percent at 35.25p after sinking to a record low of 31p, well below its rights issue price of 55p. B&amp;amp;B was forced to overhaul its rights issue plan last week for a third time, after a downgrade from rating agency Moodys prompted U.S. private equity investor TPG to pull out from buying a stake. TPG had been brought in just weeks earlier, when the bank slashed its rights issue price as trading conditions deteriorated.Under the newly enlarged deal, the bank will pay 55 million pounds in underwriting fees and legal expenses. 'This third attempt at a rights issue looks like a dogs breakfast... We can only hope that the management of this beleaguered mortgage lender and its advisors have plan B in place,' David Buik at Cantor Index said in a morning note. 'Hopefully it will take the shape of a white knight in shining armour who will sweep up this damsel in distress, removing any possibility of further embarrassment to the banking sector in the market place.' Finding a suitor, though, could be tough as the economy continues to deteriorate. Bankers said a buyer is unlikely to come forward unless B&amp;amp;Bs situation worsens further and it is practically given away in a forced sale.Entrepreneur Clive Cowdery, who tried to gatecrash the TPG deal with his own plan to inject 400 million pounds through vehicle Resolution, has indicated he is not preparing to return after walking away late last month.Smaller rival Skipton, a building society, said it had looked at B&amp;amp;B but confirmed on Tuesday that it was no longer interested in making an offer.(Additional reporting by Mathieu Robbins and Daisy Ku; Editing by David Cowell and Sue Thomas)
