 Energy company Blue Energy Ltd has revealed that almost one third of its share register could potentially be sold off as the affairs of stock lender Chimaera Financial Group are resolved. Chimaera's margin lending arm, Primebroker Securities Ltd, has gone into receivership as the ANZ Banking Group Ltd seeks to recover its $260 million exposure. Primebroker pooled its clients shares as security for credit facilities from ANZ. Blue Energy announced on Tuesday Chimaera had advised it that 138,220,376 shares, representing 31.1 per cent of its register, are subject to 'financial arrangements over which ANZ has security.' The energy company, which is in a trading halt, said it has sought clarification from ANZ and the receiver over the number of shares affected and whether the arrangements include the right of sale. 'The receiver has advised he is not currently in a position to confirm the number of shares that may be affected nor the terms under which any security is held,' Blue Energy said on Tuesday. 'The receiver has confirmed his awareness of the Blue Energy shares that may be subject to the security as a large holding, about which he would expect to hold discussions with the company in due course. 'In this respect, if a sale of the shares the subject of the security eventuates, the company believes that an orderly sale of such shares in an efficient, competitive and informed market is appropriate.' The securities in question include a 27,850,000 parcel of shares in which non-executive director Sharif Oussa has a relevant interest and 128,000 shares in which another non-executive director, Nick Stretch, has an interest. The energy firm, which was worth around $110 million when it last traded, has coal bed methane assets in Queensland along with joint ventures in oil and gas in South Australia's Cooper Basin. Blue Energy said it was taking advice on whether the acquisition of the shares by the ANZ or sale of a share block in excess of 20 per cent of its issued capital would be prevented by the takeover provisions of the Corporations Act. 'The company does not have any financing facility nor arrangements with any entity in the Chimaera Group and is fully funded to undertake its current drilling and exploration programs,' it said. ANZ moved last week to put Primebroker in receivership only days after it decided to abandon a proposed $55 million bail-out of Chimaera itself. Chimaera is still hoping a Hong Kong-based financial group will take ANZ's place as a white knight with an equity injection. Meanwhile ANZ and Chimaera are now negotiating over whether the bank will release a due diligence report it commissioned on the struggling investment firm. 
