EDT Stephen Karanovich, 79, of Potter Township, formerly of Baden, died Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008, in Friendship Ridge.Born Dec. 24, 1928, in Arnold City, Pa., a son of the late Rada and Julia Hedegas Karanovich, he was a CLU agent for Nationwide Insurance. He was a member and past master of Coraopolis Lodge 674 F&amp;amp;AM with a 32nd degree; a member of the IOOF, Ambridge; St. Elijah Serbian Orthodox Church, Aliquippa; Baden-Economy Lions Club, and the Fredericktown American Legion. He served with the U.S. Air Force during the Berlin Airlift and in the Korean War.Surviving are his wife, Jean Bova Karanovich; a son and daughter-in-law, Stephen and Patricia Karanovich, Potter Township; a daughter and son-in-law, Julia and Christopher Beaver, New Brighton; five grandchildren, Sarah E. Karanovich, Gregory Baker, Kyle Baker, Jonathan Beaver and Christopher Beaver; a great-grandson, Caleb Beaver; two brothers and a sister-in-law, Daniel and Norma Karanovich, Marietta, Ga., and Fred Karanovich, Akron, Ohio, and three sisters and a brother-in-law, Mary Trbovich, Clarksville, Pa.; Jane and Richard Meeks, Valparaiso, Ind., and Donna Hill, Springfield, Mo.In addition to his parents, he was preceded in death by infant twin sons, Stephen and David, and a sister, Mildred Gregorious.Friends will be received today from 6 to 8 p.m. and Friday from 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 p.m. in the BOHN-MATICH FUNERAL HOME INC., 1099 Maplewood Ave., Ambridge, where a service will be conducted Saturday at 10:30 a.m., followed by a funeral service at 11 a.m. in St. Elijah Serbian Orthodox Church.Private family interment will be held Monday at the National Cemetery of the Alleghenies, Bridgeville.Members of the IOOF will conduct a service Friday at 6:30 p.m. in the funeral home.Pomen will be held Friday at 7 p.m. in the funeral home.The Beaver County Special Unit will meet Saturday at 10 a.m. at the funeral home to provide full military rites.In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made, if desired, to the Baden Economy Lions Club Scholarship Fund, Harmony Road, Baden, Pa. 15005.  Anastasia Kulon
