In recent weeks, Steele Alphin has gone from a behind-the-scenes power at Bank of America Corp. to a central player in the bank's troubled Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. acquisition. The bank's chief administrative officer has long been a close confidant to chief executive Ken Lewis, gaining a reputation as the de facto No. 2 executive at the company. But the more than 30-year company veteran has largely stayed in the shadows, compiling key posts running human resources, marketing, public relations, philanthropy and the company's now shrinking corporate jet fleet.   Former executives who know the UNC Chapel Hill alumnus say Lewis values him for his advice and his loyalty. Some describe his role as a consigliere who helps shape the bank's direction. Others take a more negative tone, saying he ruthlessly carries out Lewis' 'dirty work,' such as firing employees and executives.   Alphin also appears to be Lewis' point man in the 11th-hour payment of Merrill Lynch bonuses.   New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo last month subpoenaed him to testify about his role in the payouts, and this week N.C. counterpart Roy Cooper requested records about his involvement. The bonuses, issued before the deal closed Jan. 1, have gained particular scrutiny because Bank of America has needed additional government aid to absorb Merrill's losses.   While the flap has brought unwelcome publicity to the bank, some current and former employees don't mind seeing Alphin placed in an uncomfortable spot. As the bank's longtime personnel chief, he has incurred animosity for his role in the bank's layoffs and executive turnover, although defenders note long-tenured human resources executives can't avoid such difficult situations.   Alphin, 57, declined to comment for this story through a spokesman. Most of the former colleagues who spoke for this story, critical and complimentary, asked for anonymity because they did not want to affect their careers or friendships.   The spotlight on Alphin highlights the power the human resources department has long held inside Bank of America and its predecessor institutions. Considered a 'support' function that takes a back seat to business lines at some corporations, Bank of America's personnel department plays a significant role in how employees move up through the ranks, where they are deployed and how they are paid, those familiar with the bank say.   This prominence dates to Lewis' predecessor Hugh McColl Jr., who worked closely with his own personnel head, Chuck Cooley. McColl recognized the importance of nurturing talent in banking, which relies heavily on its 'human capital' to produce profits, said retired Bank of America veteran David Watterworth. 'That was a McColl thing that continued with Ken and Steele,' said Watterworth, who held key consumer banking and risk management positions during his career. 'It's a positive thing.' John Steele Alphin, a native of southeastern Virginia, joined the bank in 1977 in a consumer banking position in Chapel Hill. Soon, though, he was rising in the personnel department, holding key posts in Florida, Atlanta and later Charlotte. He assumed responsibility for the corporation's personnel functions in 1999 and added global marketing in 2006.   His ties to Lewis date to his time in Florida, where Lewis led operations in the state as then-North Carolina National Bank was aggressively expanding through acquisitions. Alphin rose in the company along with Lewis, overlapping with him in later stops around the country. Among the top executives in the company, Alphin, Lewis and chief risk officer Amy Woods Brinkley are among the few with deep NCNB roots, the most prized DNA within the company.   An executive who worked under Alphin for more than two decades says he is a strategic thinker who brings a deep knowledge of the bank, not just a background in human resources, to management discussions. The executive also said Alphin makes tough decisions but works to be fair. 'He has an ability to anticipate things like a chess match,' the person said. 'He can always think ahead.' After returning to Charlotte, Alphin became involved in the community, a tradition among the bank's executives. Married with two children, he serves on the board of trustees of Thompson Child &amp; Family Focus, a nonprofit that serves 'at-risk' children and families in North Carolina. 'He has proven his devotion to the mission with his personal resources and his great kindness to staff, children and volunteers,' said Ginny Amendum, Thompson's president.   During his time working with Lewis, Alphin has received credit for helping to polish the bank's CEO since 2001. Lewis was long a rising star under McColl, asked to parachute into new cities where his boss had made acquisitions and make the deals work. But he wasn't known for his social or oratory skills.   Alphin told the American Banker last year that Lewis would record himself speaking and share the tapes with Alphin for his critique. 'He painfully built those skills,' Alphin said. The pair are now close inside and outside work. They're sometimes spotted grabbing a meal or drinks at the restaurant at the base of the bank's headquarters.   The bank has had its share of tumult in the executive suite under Alphin's personnel watch. The company has had three chief financial officers since Jim Hance retired in 2005. When the performance of the corporate and investment bank soured in late 2007, Lewis replaced his close friend, Gene Taylor, a well-liked executive who had joined NCNB the same year as Lewis.   In recent months, the bank shed about 20 top executives in the 'bands' just below Lewis. The general counsel spot has been a particular turnstile, following the abrupt departure of Tim Mayopoulos in December. Former corporate and investment banking executive Brian Moynihan replaced him, but less than six weeks later Moynihan moved to another post after former Merrill Lynch CEO John Thain resigned.   These departures come as the bank is shedding 42,500 jobs over three years as a result of its Merrill and Countrywide Financial Corp. acquisitions and a weak economy. The bank currently has about 301,000 workers. Former executives and employees say recent layoffs have been handled with less sensitivity than in the past, with some veterans escorted immediately from their offices.   While the bank is known for carefully monitoring performance and rotating executives through jobs, analysts say there's no internal candidate to replace Lewis, 61. While that responsibility falls primarily to the bank's board, it also reflects poorly on Alphin, say former executives. The departure of talented executives hasn't been alleviated by the arrival of enough new blood, said one former executive. 'One of the great deficiencies (at the bank) is the lack of a succession plan,' said one former executive. 'That's Steele's job.' A bank spokesman declined to comment on the company's succession planning.   The bonus issue has emerged as the most high-profile problem for Alphin.   Thain shelled out about $4 billion in bonuses to Merrill employees earlier than usual in December before the sale to Bank of America closed Jan. 1. In a CNBC interview Friday, Lewis said the bank was 'aware that bonuses were being considered and that (Thain) had some range,' but he added, 'I personally was not involved.' He added that he had to be careful of what he said because of litigation.   The Financial Times reported last month that Alphin had at least two conversations with Thain prior to a Dec. 8 Merrill board meeting at which directors approved the bonuses. Alphin recommended that the bonuses be paid out at a ratio of 70 percent cash, 30 percent stock, to conform with Bank of America practices, the paper reported.   Cuomo last month issued subpoenas to both Alphin and Thain. This week, N.C. Attorney General Roy Cooper asked for records about the bonus payouts and the bank's receipt of government assistance. The request includes communications between Steele and Merrill Lynch. The bank declined to comment about the investigations.   Those familiar with the bank's workings suspect Alphin's future will stay linked to Lewis. When McColl handed the company to Lewis in 2001, his personnel chief, Cooley, retired with him. 
