NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. bank stocks soared on Wednesday as investors took comfort that the federal 'stress test' being applied to the largest lenders may be rigorous enough to provide assurance the financial sector can survive a particularly rough recession.  Investors also took heart from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke's testimony to Congress about bank nationalization. He said, 'We don't plan anything' like nationalizing U.S. banks, in a way that would wipe out shareholders.  The KBW Bank Index  of larger lenders closed up 2.4 percent, after earlier being down as much as 7.6 percent.  Bank of America Corp  ended up 9 percent, while Citigroup Inc  closed down 3.1 percent after rising as much as 13.5 percent. Both banks have been the subject of much speculation about nationalization.  'Bernanke really backed off on the idea of the government being very active in taking in banks,' said Robert Lutts, chief investment officer of Cabot Money Management in Salem, Massachusetts. 'He indicated that he was willing to provide assistance, but not necessarily take control, and I think the market kind of responded favorably to that.'  Meanwhile, the stress tests, mandatory for those roughly 20 institutions with more than $100 billion in assets, assume the potential for a 10.3 percent U.S. unemployment rate in 2010, and for U.S. home prices to fall 22 percent in 2009.  'There is more clarity about the stress test, and that economic criteria being used suggest a pretty bleak scenario,' said Michael Yoshikami, president of YCMNET Advisors, of Walnut Creek, California. 'It's not a prediction of where the economy is headed, but it means the banks are not going to face softball stress tests.'  (Reporting by Elinor Comlay, Juan Lagorio and Jonathan Stempel; editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)  2009 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Reuters content is the intellectual property of Thomson Reuters or its third party content providers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 'Reuters' and the Reuters Logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. For additional information on other Reuters media services please visit http://about.reuters.com/media/.  Related Sites: IBN - IT Business Net , IBN - Storage , IBN - Business , IBN - Enterprise Applications , IBN - Hardware , IBN - Networking , IBN - Internet , IBN - ProductivityApps , IBN - Security , IBN - SoftwareDev  Related Newsletters: IBN - IT Weekly Newsletter  Source:?? 2009 Thomson Reuters. . All Rights Reserved  
