Wall Street might be hurting. Main Street might be hurting. But the conventional wisdom has been that even in these tough times, K Street would be okay.  Unless, of course, you happen to work for Wall Street, on K Street.  Over the past several months, major financial firms including J.P. Morgan, Citigroup and Barclays have all laid off research analysts in Washington as part of wider layoffs and cuts. Most of the cuts were specialized health care analysts the banks kept in D.C. as part of their efforts to stay on top of complex regulatory and legislative decisions.  When the government changes health policy, it can send health stocks swinging. Barclays employed analysts in Washington, who also were let go, for several other industries, too.  That type of full-time research was a luxury most banks no longer want to pay for. One D.C. analyst who was laid off says its easier to cut jobs in the capital because the offices dont bring in revenue. You know you need it, said the analyst, who declined to discuss his situation for attribution, but its hard to prove why. Perhaps as a result, Bank of America is the only major Wall Street firm left with a D.C. health analyst.  Citigroup health analyst Paul Heldman was laid off in October. He now works for Potomac Research, the kind of general research firm many big banks will probably rely on. I guess they looked at the Washington office, he says, and the type of analysis that was being done was not typical Wall Street research where youre making buy, sell, hold analysis on stocks, so they decided to close the office.  J.P. Morgan spokesman Brian Marchiony downplayed the layoffs. There was one researcher . . . specifically focused on heath care policy who has left the bank. We are not closing a shop or an office. Our health care sector analysts will, when appropriate, continue to publish stock research that incorporates policy relevant to their individual sectors.  They just wont be doing it from Washington, caught in the ripples of Wall Streets troubles. Its brutal in New York right now, said the laid-off researcher. Its terrible.  
