 Lloyd Blankfein, Chairman &amp; CEO Goldman Sachs Firm - $10bn in TARP, Blankfein - 2008 salary $600,000, bonus zero  Humourous, but not as confident and eloquent as one would expect from the leader of the mighty Goldman.   Probably not helped as many of the Congress folks couldn't seem to get his name right, variously calling him Blankfeen, Blankenfein and Blanksteen.  Best line - After Representative Velazquez asked if the CEOs were implying that Citigroup had lost its mind on the issue of supporting legislation to prevent foreclosures, Blankfein said: 'If they have, it's not because of this issue'.  Grade : B minus  Jamie Dimon, Chairman &amp; CEO, JPMorgan Firm - $25bn in TARP, Dimon - 2008 salary $1m, no bonus  Cool, calm, under control. Eloquent. Firm grasp of the facts. Knew what he wanted to say and said it economically.  Best line - When asked if JPMorgan would need any more TARP funding, he said: 'If it does, it won't be me who is asking'.  Grade : A  Robert Kelly, Chairman &amp; CEO, Bank of New York Mellon  Firm - $3bn in TARP, Kelly - 2008 salary $1m, bonus none  Probably wondering what the Hell he was doing there. Didn't say much, didn't have to.  Best line - Didn't have one  Grade : B  Ken Lewis, Chairman &amp; CEO, Bank of America  Firm - $15bn in TARP (for 2008), Lewis - 2008 salary $1.5m, no bonus  Looked uncomfortable in these surroundings. Often red-faced. Not particularly eloquent, but perhaps the most aggressive CEO in standing his corner.  Best lines -   1. When asked a dumb question by a Representative who clearly didn't know what she was on about, he looked bemused and retorted: 'I don't know what you are talking about!'.  2. When the panel was described by a Representative as 'Captains of the Universe', Lewis shot back: 'I feel more like corporal of the universe, not captain of the universe at this moment!'.  Grade : B minus  Ronald Logue, Chairman &amp; CEO, State Street Corp.  Firm - $2bn in TARP, Logue - 2008 salary $1m, no bonus  Like Bank of New York's Robert Kelly, probably didn't understand why he was called up. Remained on the sidelines, hardly saying anything (as he didn't need to).  Best line - Didn't have one  Grade : B  John Mack, Chairman &amp; CEO, Morgan Stanley  Firm - $10bn in TARP, Mack - 2008 salary $800,000, no bonus  Looked the part. All seeing, all knowing. Good sense of humour. Seemed to enjoy his moment in the Washington spotlight.  Best lines -   1. When he forgot to turn his microphone on before first speaking, Mack joked: 'I was just trying to pull a fast one!'.  2. When asked about why he needed to be paid a bonus (and Mack didn't take one in 2007 or 2008), Mack said: 'We love what we do. If you gave us no bonus, we would still be here'.  Grade : A minus  Vikram Pandit, CEO, Citi  Firm - $45bn in TARP, Pandit - 2008 salary $1m, bonus none.  Poised, eloquent, slick, politically in tune with what was going on. A strong assured performance, which surprised many people.  Best lines:  1. 'I get the new reality, and I will make sure Citi gets it as well'.  2. ' 'I've told my board of directors that my salary should be $1 per year with no bonus until we return to profitability'.  Grade : A  John Stumpf, Chairman &amp; CEO, Wells Fargo Firm - $25bn in TARP, Stumpf 2008 salary $850,000, bonus to be decided in February.  A real dark horse. Spoke his mind, forceful. Strong grasp of the details. Got his points across well. A good performance.  Best line - Said that Wells Fargo executives are 'Americans first. Bankers second'.  Grade : A  But the sound bite of the day was the words uttered by a nearly incandescent Representative Michael Capuano (D., Mass), who almost shouted: 'You come to us today on your bicycles, after buying Girl Scout's cookies and helping out Mother Teresa, telling us: 'We're sorry. We won't do it again'. Well, America doesn't trust you anymore'.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend. 
