Credit card defaults may rise beyond 10 percent this year, breaking records and wiping out more than half of annual profit for lenders including Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, analysts say. Loan failures are about to surpass a previous high of 7.53 percent as people losing jobs amid the recession can't repay debt, according to Fitch Ratings. The defaults may peak at 10 percent to 11 percent of loans by year-end under a stress scenario, Goldman Sachs analyst Brian Foran said. He reduced 2009 earnings for issuers including an almost 40 percent cut for American Express. 'The challenge is getting past the intensifying credit problems that will probably stay pretty rotten over the next six months or longer,' said John Williams, an analyst at Macquarie Capital in New York. Banks that already got cash from the U.S. Treasury after losses tied to mortgage securities may have to add billions to reserves for credit card defaults, straining capital levels further. They are cutting credit lines, raising interest rates and scaling back on mail solicitations to brace for future losses. Citigroup, Bank of America, JPMorgan, American Express, Capital One and Discover are the biggest card lenders. Charge offs, or loans that banks deem uncollectible, reached 7.5 percent in December, according to Fitch Ratings analyst Cynthia Ullrich. The record of 7.53 percent was in 2005 after a change in bankruptcy law spurred a wave of filings, according to Fitch, which tracks a quarter of the $964 billion in U.S. credit card receivables. 'This is going to be an awful year for the credit card industry,' Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Kenneth Lewis told lawmakers earlier this month. 'The more optimistic views are unemployment at 8 or 8.5 percent, and that would cause very high loss rates in the credit card portfolios.' Charge offs may reach the 'midteens' in a worst-case scenario, Moody's Investors Service analysts said. Sustained defaults at 10 percent could force a major issuer to seek a rescue or sell its credit card division, said David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, a trade newsletter. 'There's never been a lender of that scale in this predicament,' Robertson said in an interview. 'Portfolios that have been required to sell themselves to a lender because they've gone underwater have been far smaller.'
