WASHINGTON - The head of the federal agency that oversees the savings and loan industry is leaving the post on Feb. 27, the Office of Thrift Supervision announced Thursday.  John Reich, named OTS director by President George W. Bush in 2005, had said he planned to leave the agency before the end of his five-year term. He informed employees of the date on Thursday, the Treasury Department agency said.  Reich's plans were not immediately disclosed. Scott Polakoff, the agency's senior deputy director and chief operating officer, will serve as acting director until President Barack Obama names a successor, the agency said in a release.  Reich is one of several federal bank regulators who had to deal with the crushing mortgage and credit crises during their tenure, debacles that have turned into the most painful economic downturn in decades. 'I am honored to have led this agency during one of the most challenging economic periods in U.S. history,' Reich said in a statement. 'I am tremendously proud of the enormous efforts by OTS employees to preserve the health of the U.S. thrift industry and I feel confident that those efforts will continue under my successor.' Several Democratic lawmakers and consumer advocates have criticized the thrift agency under Reich's tenure for what they said was lax oversight.  Thrifts differ from banks in that, by law, they must have at least 65 percent of their lending in mortgages and other consumer loans _ making them particularly vulnerable to the housing downturn.  Two of the biggest bank failures in the nation's history occurred last year and involved thrifts. Pasadena, Calif.-based IndyMac Bank collapsed in July and cost the federal deposit insurance fund nearly $9 billion, and Seattle-based Washington Mutual Inc. was the largest U.S. bank failure ever. WaMu fell in September, with around $307 billion in assets, and was acquired by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. for $1.9 billion in a deal brokered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  In December, Sen. Charles Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, raised concerns about the thrift agency's role as an overseer, citing its approval of a backdated cash infusion for IndyMac. The OTS official in charge of the Western region who approved the action was reassigned within the agency.  Reich told the Treasury Department's inspector general in a letter that he had asked that all members of the OTS staff involved in bank examinations be reminded 'of the proper regulatory and accounting reporting expectations' related to capital injections.  While the agency believed the $18 million injection for IndyMac was 'a relatively small factor' in the events leading to its failure, Reich wrote, 'we also recognize that we must take certain actions to ensure that OTS remains a well managed regulatory agency.' Reich, as OTS director, also has sat on the board of the FDIC. He previously was acting chairman of the FDIC and worked for 23 years as a community bank in Illinois and Florida before that.
