Bank of America wants to sell San Francisco-based First Republic Bank as the larger bank tries to preserve capital, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday, citing people familiar with the situation.  The move will be well received by First Republic customers. Some of the banks wealthy customers have said theyd like to see the bank become independent once again. A few have even suggested they might be willing to help finance such a deal. The banks client roster includes CNNs Larry King as well as Actor Rob Lowe, Record Producer Quincy Jones and Actress Penny Marshall. Clients from the Bay Areas financial community include legendary investment banker Bill Hambrecht, private equity firm Summit Partners Walter Kortschak and venture firm  New Enterprise Associates Gene Trainor. San Francisco financier Warren Hellman turned to First Republic for financing of his Sugar Bowl ski resort.  First Republic was purchased by Merrill Lynch for $1.8 billion in September 2007. The New York brokerage ran First Republic as a separate unit, maintaining its name and management. Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch on New Year's Day 2009. Other potential buyers could include Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS) or Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS). First Republic spokesman Greg Berardi declined to comment on the situation.  The future of First Republic under BofAs (NYSE: BAC) ownership has been a hot topic in Bay Area financial circles, given the banks affluent customer base that would be attractive to a long list of rivals.  A key concern for these clients is that First Republics reputation for highly personalized service will be hard to maintain if its integrated into BofA. I want First Republic to remain independent so they can continue to provide the extraordinary level of service and a personal relationship with the customer, said Mark Herrero, chairman and CEO of San Francisco-based Herrero Contractors Inc. soon after the BofA-Merrill Lynch deal was announced last September. Herrero has been a business and personal customer of First Republic for 20 years. I am concerned that BofA might put First Republics ability to deliver this special customer value at risk, he said. Others echoed his desire to have their banker on call.  Longtime First Republic client Robin Wolaner said last September that she isn't sure how the bank makes money but has come to expect the banks high level of service and personal attention. First Republic once arranged to deliver foreign currency to her local branch, Wolaner said, so she could pick it up on a Saturday before departing to Europe. Another time she was speaking with a friend one evening about his inability to get a mortgage because of the volatile nature of his income. She called her banker. My friend switched to First Republic that night and got his mortgage, said Wolaner, who is founder and CEO of San Francisco-based TBD.com, a social networking site for the over-40 crowd. Shes done well with her other media pursuits, which includes establishing Parenting Magazine more than two decades ago.  BofA letting First Republic operate independently, or selling it off, would be out of character for the bank. BofA tends to quickly move to rebrand its acquisitions under the corporate name and is rarely a seller.  But then again, these are far from normal times.  Email Mark Calvey at mcalvey@bizjournals.com / (415) 288-4950  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!
