They're also hoping to keep up to $1.5 Million in salary this year.  Post Tools  Share and save this post:  Got a tip for a post?:  Email us   Anonymous form  Corporate Accountability and WorkPlace RSS Feed  Main AlterNet RSS Feed  Get Corporate Accountability and WorkPlace in your  mailbox!  Also in Corporate Accountability and WorkPlace  Jane Hamsher Firedoglake  Steve Benen Washington Monthly  Laura Flanders GRITtv  In November, Big Three automaker CEOs were ridiculed by Congress for taking private jets to Washington to plea for a federal bailout. Subsequently, the CEOs quickly curbed their jet travel.  Wall Street execs seem not to have learned the lesson. In a House Financial Services Committee hearing today, Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA) asked bailed-out bank CEOs if their companies still own or lease private planes. Only one (Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankenfein) out of eight did not raise his hand:  SHERMAN: Id like you to raise your hand if your company currently owns or leases a private plane. Let the record reflect that all the hands went up except the gentleman from Goldman Sachs. Gentleman, we know that its extremely expensive to operate the planes. You could sell them and generate capital for your company, and that capital could be used to repay taxpayers immediately.  The big show of not buying one particular new plane flies in the face of how you are really flying, Sherman scolded the CEOs, likely referring to Citigroups recently  to take a $50 million corporate jet.  The CEOs also disclosed that several of the them are still being generously compensated. While all said they gave up their bonuses, all except one earned between $600,000 and $1.5 million in salary last year.  Rep. Dennis Moore (D-KS) asked the CEOs if they planned on retaining the following salaries in 2009. All indicated that they would. Notably, Citigroups Vikram Pandit said that he would keep a $1 per year salary until his bank became profitable again:  Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf: $850,000  Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit: $1  Morgan Stanely CEO John Mack: $800,000  State Street Corp. CEO Ronald Logue: $1 million  Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis: $1.5 million  Bank of New York CEO Robert Kelly: $1 miillion  JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon: $1 million  Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankenfein: $600,000  
