SYDNEY, March 11 (Reuters) - Australian consumer sentiment was subdued in March as a threat of recession fuelled fears of job losses, although monetary and fiscal stimulus brightened the long-term outlook.  Aggressive interest rate cuts and generous government handouts seemed to give consumers enough confidence to buy more houses in January, with demand for mortgages rising for a fourth straight month.  'This could only be interpreted as a strong vote of confidence that current policies are providing a strong foundation in the longer term,' said Westpac chief economist Bill Evans.  A survey of 1,200 people by Westpac and the Melbourne Institute showed its index of consumer sentiment fell 0.2 percent to 85.6 in March. That followed a 4.6 percent drop in February and left the index 3.4 percent down on March last year.  But the third straight monthly decline was milder than many analysts had expected given the avalanche of grim economic news.  UNEXPECTEDLY GOOD  The survey, released on Wednesday, was taken last week when the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) passed on a chance to cut the 3.25 percent cash rate at its monthly policy meeting, preferring to wait and assess the impact of recent cuts.  Data released that week also showed Australia's economy suffered its first quarterly contraction in eight years.  'On the face of it this is a surprisingly good result,' said Westpac's Evans. 'Normally we would have expected a solid fall in the index given the stream of negative news.'  The big surprise came with the outlook for the economy over the next five years, where the survey's index jumped 15.2 percent.  Government data showed the number of home loans rose 3.5 percent in January from a month earlier. Encouraged by government grants, the share of loans to first home buyers rose to 26.5 percent, the highest since 1991.  Households are looking forward to the first payments from the Labor government's A$42 billion ($27.6 billion) stimulus package, which are due this week and will roll on through April. It follows an earlier A$10.4 billion package announced last year.  The significant stimulus has already led to a surge in government borrowings, but Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner said on Wednesday that projected debt levels were manageable at about 5 percent of gross domestic product.  'Expectations of bonus government welfare payments probably prevented a sharper fall in confidence,' said Helen Kevans, economist at JPMorgan. 'In our view, though, a large portion of these one-off payments will be saved, not spent.'  Indeed, the survey found people were more worried about losing their jobs than at any time in the last 10 years.  RATE CUTS HELP HOUSING  The government's labour force report on Thursday is expected to show a rise in in the jobless rate to 5 percent in February from 4.8 percent the previous month and a loss of nearly 20,000 jobs as more companies shed labour to cut costs.  The government's leading indicator of employment fell for the 15th straight month in March, pointing to further slowing employment growth due to the downturn.  That should keep pressure on the central bank to cut rates further. Since September, it has cut rates by 400 basis points and markets are pricing in a further 50 point cut next month. That would take the cash rate to a record low of 2.75 percent.  The soothing effect of lower rates was clear in a revival in housing demand in January.  'Lower rates are working and the really good news is that it's not just first homebuyers, although logically enough they are outperforming,' said Adam Carr, senior economist at ICAP.  While the growing demand for homes should help the construction industry recover over time, analysts doubt Australia can escape another quarter of negative growth, especially after data on Wednesday showed China's exports slumping in February.  Much of China's manufacturing exports are made using Australian raw materials. China is Australia's second-biggest trading partner.  'We continue to expect a 50 basis points easing by the RBA in April,' said Paul Brennan, economist at Citi  (nyse: C -  news  -  people ). 'Despite early signs of recovery in housing the broader economic outlook suggests more stimulus will be needed.'  (Editing by Jan Dahinten) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/  (anirban.nag@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1871; Reuters Messaging: anirban.nag.reuters.com@reuters.net )  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
