By Rika Otsuka TOKYO, March 12 (Reuters) - Japanese government bond futures rose on Thursday after a smooth five-year auction showed banks' demand for JGBs remains solid amid the economic slump. Data confirmed on Thursday that Japan is mired in recession with the economy contracting in October-December at its sharpest pace since the oil crisis in 1974, buoying demand for safe-haven debt. Bond selling by financial firms to take profits and cover losses on their equity holdings has ebbed, despite a sharp drop in Tokyo shares, after remarks by U.S. bank executives eased worries about the health of the financial sector. At the Ministry of Finance's 2 trillion yen ($20.7 billion) sale of five-year JGBs, the difference between the lowest price and the average price -- a gauge of demand known as the 'tail' -- was a relatively tight 0.02. That eased investor worries that banks may keep their debt holdings light even after they finish taking profits on JGBs before the business year ends on March 31. 'The auction is one piece of evidence that banks have a strong appetite for JGBs,' said Katsutoshi Inadome, a fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities. 'Government bonds also received help from a fall in domestic stocks, which were hurt by a stronger yen.' June futures climbed 0.42 point to 138.92. The benchmark 10-year yield was unchanged on the day at 1.310 percent, after falling to 1.290 percent. The Nikkei share average dropped 2.4 percent, falling back towards a 26-year closing low struck earlier this week. JGB futures also got a boost from a strong performance by U.S. Treasuries. U.S. Treasuries rallied on Wednesday after demand at a record reopening of 10-year notes was not as weak as feared. U.S. government bonds extended gains in Asian trade on Thursday. The JGB five-year yield fell 1.5 basis points to 0.735 percent as the MOF's auction met with fair demand from banks. The slump in Tokyo shares had been forcing banks, large holders of Japanese shares, and institutional investors to take profits on JGBs before they close their books. Most Japanese companies close their books in March. But traders and analysts now believe profit-taking has passed its peak and stock falls are no longer likely to spark aggressive JGB selling. The two-year yield edged up 0.5 basis point to 0.410 percent . The 30-year yield edged down 0.5 basis point to 1.970 percent . The Japanese economy shrank a revised 3.2 percent in the final quarter of last year, a slightly smaller contraction than forecast, but economists warned of further contraction in the next two quarters. Gains in cash bonds were capped by worries that the government may need to increase debt issuance to finance economic stimulus measures. The low yields on JGBs are another factor making investors reluctant to buy Japanese bonds, said Koji Ochiai, senior market economist at Mizuho Investors Securities. 'Based on perceptions of yield levels, JGBs are the least attractive among government bonds in major countries,' Ochiai said. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at 2.888 percent on Thursday, while 10-year gilts yielded around 3.10 percent the previous day. (Reporting by Rika Otsuka; Editing by Chris Gallagher) ((rika.otsuka@thomsonreuters.com; +81-3-6441-1874; Reuters Messaging: rika.otsuka.reuters.com@reuters.net)) ($1=96.74 Yen) Keywords: MARKETS JAPAN JGB Double-click on brackets for following items: JGB historical auction results JGB benchmark data from JBTC brokers' broker JGB composite data from Reuters JGB long and super-long sectors (OTC) JGB medium-term sector (OTC) JGB futures composite Japanese debt Speed Guide Yen currency/swaps/derivatives Speed Guide JGB closing prices/yields from brokers' broker Lead 10-year JGB futures on TSE 10-year JGB futures on TSE (day session) 10-year JGB futures on TSE (night session) 10-year JGB futures on LIFFE 10-year JGB futures on SIMEX 10-year JGB future options on TSE Tokyo Mitsubishi Securities yen bond index TIFFE euroyen futures SIMEX euroyen futures CME euroyen futures Yen OIS from Meitan Tradition Yen OIS on BOJ meetings from Meitan Tradition Yen OIS from Totan Capital Yen TIBOR (Tokyo interbank offered rate) Yen LIBOR (London interbank offered rate) Yen interest rate swaps contributed Yen interest rate swaps from Totan Capital World yields summary (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * BridgeStation: view story .134 * Reuters Plus: from your WebDSS screen For more information on Top News, visit http://topnews.reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
