RBA in two minds on rate decision  Predicted GDP slump  THE Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) was in two minds before deciding to pause on interest rates in March and wait to evaluate the effects of earlier cuts and the Federal Government's fiscal stimulus packages.  The minutes of the RBA's March 3 meeting, released, said the board faced a line ball decision, despite expecting the Australian economy to have contracted in the final quarter of 2008.  The board left the cash rate on hold, and at a 45-year-low of 3.25 per cent, for the first time since August last year.  At its five previous meetings, the board had cut the cash rate by 4 percentage points.  'Member could see reasonable cases for both courses of action,' the minutes said.  'On balance, they judged that, having made a major change to monetary policy over the preceding several meetings in anticipation of weak economic conditions, the best course for this meeting was to leave the cash rate unchanged.  'Members believed this would leave adequate flexibility for policy at future meetings.'  Board members noted the size of the rate cuts was large by historical standards and, together with the Federal Government's total $52 billion in fiscal stimulus, it would take time assess the impact on the local economy.  'Early indications were that the monetary policy and fiscal stimulus that had been applied to the economy was having an expansionary effect, but the size of this remained unclear and it would take some time for the full impacts to come through,' the minutes said.  While the board noted the Australian economy had was better positioned than many other economies, the speed of the downturn in the global economy had battered the confidence of consumers and would be reflected in weak domestic data for the recent period.  The day after the board meeting, Australian Bureau of Statistics released the national accounts for the December quarter showing the first contraction in quarterly gross domestic product (GDP) in eight years.  GDP shrank 0.5 per cent in the last three months of 2008, ABS data said.  'The latest available information suggested that the national accounts to be released the following day would probably show a small fall in GDP in the December quarter, a weaker outcome than had appeared likely a few days earlier, though not significantly different from forecasts made for the previous meeting,' the minutes said.  With the confidence of consumers and businesses still under strain, it was too soon for the significant macroeconomics policy stimulus to have an effect, here and abroad, the board said.  'The near-term outlook for the global economy therefore remained very weak and official forecasts of world economic growth were likely to be revised down further.  
