THE dollar has opened lower after woeful US economic data pointed to a deepening US recession and prompted safe-haven US dollar buying.  At 7.00am (AEDT), the dollar was trading at $US0.6365/71, down from Friday's close of $US0.6455/60.  During the offshore session, the unit moved between a low of $US0.6360 and a high of $US0.6470. It was the dollar's weakest start to the local session since February 1, when the unit opened at $US0.6301/05.  The US dollar posted strong gains during Friday's New York session after the preliminary estimate of US gross domestic product (GDP) showed the world's largest economy contracted at an annualised pace of 6.2 per cent in the December quarter.  It was the worst result since 1982 and downwardly revised from the advanced estimate of a 3.8 per cent decline. Also, US consumer spending slipped 4.3 per cent in the December quarter, its biggest decline since 1980.  LatitudeFX lead sales executive Jim Devonport said the shocking data caused a spike in risk aversion, prompting investors towards the safe-haven US dollar and out of riskier assets such as the dollar and equity markets. 'Risk averse trading just saw the Aussie trading lower,'' Mr Devonport said from Auckland. 'The sentiment is not looking too positive with what's coming out of the US.''  Wall Street posted fresh lows on Friday - the S&amp;P500 closed at its lowest level in 12 years, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended at its weakest level since May 1997.  Mr Devonport said the weak US data washed away the slightly positive sentiment towards the end of last week due to better-than-expected local data on business investment and construction work done.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics releases business indicators data for the December quarter at 11.30am on today.   Also due out is the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute inflation gauge and the Australian Industry Group/PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian Performance of Manufacturing Index for February.   Mr Devonport said any significant moves in the dollar were not expected until US markets reopened.  He said the focus was also on the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) monthly board meeting and interest rate decision tomorrow.  The market pricing in a cut of either 25 basis point or 50 basis points, with some economists predicting the RBA will keep the cash rate on hold. 
