Consumer sentiment dipped in March amid ongoing fears about a recession and job losses.  The Westpac-Melbourne Institute index of consumer sentiment fell 0.2 per cent to 85.6 points, from 85.8 points the month before.  The index remained under 100-points, the level where pessimists outweigh optimists, for the 14th straight month.  But Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the result was 'surprisingly good' considering a stream of bad news about the domestic and global economies.  'Global economic conditions continued to deteriorate particularly with the surprisingly swift capitulation in Asia and news of the collapse of jobs in the US and a further 20 per cent fall in US share prices,' Mr Evans said in a statement on Wednesday.  'There was extensive media coverage of the worsening job market.  'The Australian economy was declared to be in or near recession following the release of the December quarter national accounts which showed the economy contracted for the first time since 2000.'  Mr Evans said the small fall in sentiment could reflect a lagged response to positive developments in February.  'Recall that despite the announcement of the government's $42 billion fiscal stimulus package and the one per cent fall in mortgage rates the index actually fell by 9.6 per cent in February,' he said,  'At the time it appeared that job concerns and the global gloom had more than offset the positive initiatives coming from the fiscal and monetary authorities.'  The index may have found a base, Mr Evans said.  'The index has fallen by only 3.4 per cent over the last year compared to a fall of 23 per cent in the year to March 2008,' he said.  'However, it has settled at a level which is almost 15 per cent below the long term average, and has hardly budged from its level in August 2008 prior to the Reserve Bank's spectacular 400 basis point rate cut cycle.'  Since September, the central bank has cut the cash rate 400 basis points to a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent in a bid to cushion the domestic economy from a recession.  In the survey, consumers were asked which news categories they could recall on a quarterly basis for the past 10 years, with interest rates, the domestic economy and international conditions generally top of the list.  'For this survey there was a surge in interest in unemployment,' Mr Evans said.  'The read on news recalled about unemployment was much higher than has been registered over the last 10 years.'  Mr Evans expects the Reserve Bank of Australia to take a more conservative approach with future rate cuts, with an easing of 25 basis points at the board's next meeting on April 7.  'We assess that cash rates which are currently 3.25 per cent will bottom out at two per cent and that the bank sees the need to conserve its capacity to ensure that it is able to deal either with an unexpected further sharp deterioration either in global financial conditions or the domestic economy.'  
