THE total number of job advertisements in Australia fell 10.4 per cent last month, signalling a collapse in the labour market. A construction worker performs welding on a building site in Sydney. Picture: Bloomberg  According to a survey by ANZ, total job ads fell to an average of 161,583 ads per week, contributing to a 39.8 per cent annual decline.   In a National Australia Bank survey also released today, business conditions slumped 9 points to minus 20 index points last month, its lowest level since June 1982, as forward orders and employment indicators declined and capacity utilisation fell to levels not seen since 2001.   Still, the NAB business survey showed business confidence rose 10 points in February from January to minus 22 index points, helped by some expectations in the consumer sector that the federal Government will announce more cash handouts to stimulate the economy.   Both surveys suggested the Reserve Bank was likely to resume cutting official interest rates in April after leaving monetary policy unchanged at 3.25 per cent earlier this month.   NAB economists forecast a likely bottom for official rates of around 2 per cent in late 2009.   The ANZ survey showed the number of internet job advertisements fell 9.4 per cent in February from January, contributing to an annual decline of 38.6 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms.   The number of newspaper job advertisements fell 25.2 per cent in February from January, contributing to an annual decline of 55.4 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms.   Warren Hogan, head of Australian economics at ANZ, said the fall in job ads was the largest monthly decline since the combined internet and newspaper series commenced in 1999.   The annual rate of decline is also the worst outcome on record. 'This suggests that new labour demand continues to contract across Australia in the early part of 2009,' Mr Hogan said. He said trends in job advertising suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate was likely.   ANZ now expects the unemployment rate to reach 6.5 per cent by the end of 2009 and 7.5 per cent by mid 2010. 'The risks to our forecasts are for higher unemployment, Mr Hogan said. The data suggests that the current downturn in the economy was likely to last throughout 2009, with little prospect of a meaningful recovery before 2010, he added.   NAB Group Chief Economist Alan Oster said the gap between business confidence and conditions was closing, with activity continuing to move down.   He expects this narrowing in conditions and expectations to continue. 'While business confidence improved in February, that is very much driven from improved expectations in the retail and wholesale sectors,' Mr Oster said. 'In turn, those sectors are the ones most likely to benefit from the next round of government cash handouts. 'It was also noticeable that improved expectations were not driven by better activity levels in February - especially retail, which fell 12 points.' Driving the continued decline in business conditions was a fall in capacity utilisation, which dropped below 80 per cent for the first time since April 2001.   Meanwhile, forward orders fell 7 points to minus 27 index points, its lowest reading since June 1991.   Mr Oster said there was little to suggest that activity levels might be starting to bottom, with continued declines in mining and manufacturing notable.   NAB has lowered its forecast for Australian gross domestic product growth in 2009 to a 1 per cent fall from a previous forecast of a 0.25 per cent fall. 
