By Lee Hyo-sik  Staff Reporter   The government is seeking to issue dollar-denominated foreign exchange stabilization bonds worth up to $1 billion as early as this month to bring dollars into the country to help ease the ongoing dollar shortage and boost the rapidly falling value of the won against the greenback. It is also intended to set a standard yield for other locally issued bonds abroad, encouraging banks and public companies to raise funds overseas.  According to sources Friday, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance plans to complete all necessary preparations for selling currency stabilization bonds to foreign investors this month. The government can issue as much as $6 billion in sovereign bonds this year. Vice Strategy and Finance Minister Hur Kyung-wook said last month that his ministry will issue sovereign bonds twice in 2009, once each in the first half and the second half.  Ahead of the bond issuance, an investors' relation (IR) session will be held in London in a bid to ease international investors' concerns about the Seoul financial market and the health of the Korean economy.  On top of attracting capital from outside on its own, the envisioned sovereign bond issuance is also aimed at helping financial institutions and companies raise money from foreign investors.  Usually, foreign exchange stabilization bond yields act as a benchmark for locally issued corporate bonds overseas. But without a standard yield, it is more uncertain and costly for banks and firms to issue bonds abroad.  Korea National Oil Corp. (KNOC), Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEPCO) and 16 other state-run enterprises plan to sell corporate bonds to raise a combined $10 billion this year. KNOC is seeking to bring in $1.7 billion, followed by KEPCO with $600 million and Korea Gas Corp. with $500 million.  However, it is uncertain whether the government will be able to convince wary international investors to purchase the bonds amid worsening global financial market conditions as a result of the credit crisis in Eastern Europe. ''We have not yet decided when to sell currency bonds. But we are making all the preparations and closely watching market conditions. Last September, we decided not to issue bonds because we had to pay much higher yields than usual. But the pricing is not the only consideration this time,'' a ministry official told The Korea Times, indicating the government is willing to raise dollars from international investors as needed, even at the cost of higher interest.  In September last year, the government suspended selling currency stabilization bonds worth $1 billion in New York as foreign investors demanded higher bond yields, following the demise of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers and insurance giant American International Group (AIG)'s worsening liquidity shortage.  It had planned to issue the bonds at a spread of below 200 basis points over U.S. Treasury yields, but investors asked for more than 210 basis points. Following the withdrawal, banks and public companies also postponed the issuance of corporate bonds overseas.  In recent weeks, the credit default swap (CDS) premium on five-year foreign exchange stabilization bonds has increased to 4.65 percent, the highest level since late October, when the premium stood at around 7 percent.  Higher CDS premiums mean international investors demand higher interest and the Korean government has to pay more to sell its bonds.  When the government fails to sell bonds it's expected to have a negative impact on the local financial market and further weaken the won against the dollar as it could be seen as a vote of no confidence in the world's 13th largest economy among foreign investors.  leehs@koreatimes.co.kr 
