 SHARES are down after the Australian economy officially went into retreat in the final three months of 2008 - the first negative result in eight years as the global downturn hit.  The national accounts released today showed gross domestic product dropped 0.5 per cent in the December quarter - the first negative result in eight years.  Over the year to December, GDP rose 0.3 per cent.  The share market was firmly in the red at noon, weighed down by the disappointing gross GDP figures, and losses among the banking and mining sectors.   The September quarter GDP result was unrevised at 0.1 per cent, meaning the economy has so far avoided a 'technical'' recession. A 'technical'' recession is defined by two consecutive quarters of contraction.   But what's happening the real world?  Economists had expected a small positive GDP result for the quarter, supported by strong retail spending, construction work, capital expenditure and weak imports, and offsetting a slump in company profits and business inventories.   Equally, they saw the risk of the first negative quarter in eight years.   Earlier today, RBA assistant governor of economics Malcolm Edey told a business forum in Sydney that Australia would see some significant short-term weakness, due to a sudden deterioration in global conditions in the final three months of calendar 2008.   The Reserve Bank of Australia left the cash rate unchanged yesterday after its monthly board meeting at a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent.  Federal Treasurer Wayne Swan said the national accounts were a 'sobering reflection' of an extremely difficult global environment. 'Although the Australian economy has held up better than most other economies, the inevitable impact of the global recession is clearly evident in today's data,' Mr Swan said. He said without the government's boost from its $10.4 billion stimulus package, consumption would have certainly contracted, as it did in almost all other major economies in the quarter.   The data showed household consumption grew by 0.1 per cent in the quarter. 'The government's stimulus - along with significant interest rate cuts in recent months - will continue to support consumption in coming months,' Mr Swan said. He said the global economic environment is clearly 'very challenging'. Mr Swan said global conditions will get worse before they get better. 'Nonetheless, Australia is better placed than most other countries to ride out the global economic storm,' he said. 'There are no quick fixes to the global recession, and many of its effects are yet to be fully felt. 'But the government is doing everything in its power to cushion Australians from the worst impacts of the global recession.' Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said Australia could cushion the impact of the global recession on its economy, but not stop it.   Mr Rudd told reporters in Gladstone the figures reflected the impact of the global economic recession under way in 17 advanced economies. 'Australia cannot continue to swim against the global economic tide,' he said. 'Australia can reduce the impact, cushion the impact, of the global economic tide but we cannot stop it altogether.' Mr Rudd said the government's economic stimulus package had cushioned the impact, as reflected by the fact that in the December quarter Australia was among the top five performing economies in the industrial world. 'Had the government not introduced the stimulus package at the end of last year the impact on Australian jobs and the Australian economy would have been worse,' he said. 'This underlines the government's resolve to continue to take whatever further action is necessary to underpin growth and jobs in the future.' 
