SYDNEY, March 11 (Reuters) - A key measure of Australian consumer confidence slipped slightly in March as workers fretted about losing their jobs, though optimism about the long-term economic outlook actually brightened in the month.  The survey of 1,200 people by the Westpac-Melbourne Institute showed its index of consumer sentiment fell 0.2 percent, or 0.2 points, to 85.6 in March. That followed a 4.6 percent drop in February and left the index 3.4 percent down on March last year.  The dip was much more modest than many analysts had expected given the flow of grim economic news.  The survey, released on Wednesday, was taken last week when the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) passed on a chance to cut the 3.25 percent cash rate at its monthly policy meeting, preferring to wait and assess the impact of the 400 basis points of easing already delivered.  Consumers were also assailed by gloomy media coverage of job losses last week and of the first quarterly contraction in Australian economic growth in eight years.  'On the face of it this is a surprisingly good result,' said Westpac chief economist Bill Evans. 'Normally we would have expected a solid fall in the index given the stream of negative news.'  The big surprise came with the outlook for the economy over the next five years, where the survey found a 15.2 percent jump in its index.  'This could only be interpreted as a strong vote of confidence that current policies are providing a strong foundation in the longer term,' said Evans.  Households might be looking forward to the first payments from the Labor government's A$42 billion ($27.6 billion) stimulus package are due later this month and will roll on through April.  However, the survey found people were more worried about losing their jobs, with the read on news recalled about unemployment much higher than at any time in the last 10 years.  Falling share values were also undermining sentiment on household wealth. The index measuring consumers' assessments of their finances compared to a year ago fell by 11.4 percent in March.  Yet the outlook for finances over the next 12 months fell by only 0.3 percent, while the outlook for economic conditions over the next 12 months was down by 1.2 percent.  The index on whether now was a good time to buy a major household item dipped 3.3 percent, with consumers leaning toward paying down debt rather than spending.  Indeed, the proportion of respondents favouring lower debt was the highest since Westpac first measured this category in 1995.  (Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by Jonathan Standing) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/CONSUMER  (wayne.cole@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1813; Reuters Messaging: wayne.cole.reuters.com@reuters.net )  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
