* New Zealand's central bank cuts rate to record low 3 pct  * RBNZ says rapid easing to slow, no near-zero rate policy  * RBNZ sees economy troughing in mid-year (Adds fresh rate poll, comment, market reaction)  WELLINGTON, March 12 (Reuters) - New Zealand's central bank cut interest rates to an all-time low on Thursday and left the door open for more smaller cuts as the bank forecast the struggling economy to slowly recover later this year.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) cut its benchmark rate by 50 basis points to 3.0 percent, sending the kiwi up as much as 2.4 percent to $0.5144 from late Wednesday trade.  The New Zealand dollar settled around $0.5102/07 at 2345 GMT, while the yield on the June bank bill contract rose 16 basis points to 3 percent.  'As economic activity troughs, we expect rapid easing of monetary policy to slow,' said RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard, adding that he did not expect to see in New Zealand the near-zero policy rates of some countries.  'New Zealand needs to retain competitiveness in the international capital markets.'  The central bank now sees the economy troughing in the middle of this year, helped by the substantial reduction in borrowing costs, fiscal stimulus and the lower New Zealand dollar.  The RBNZ has scaled back the amount of easing, after two hefty cuts of 1.5 percentage points each in December and January.  Nine of 14 economists in a Reuters poll had picked a 50 basis point cut for the March review.  The cut, the sixth since last July, took the official cash rate to its lowest level since it was instituted in March 1999. It peaked in July last year at 8.25 percent.  Economists said more rate cuts were on the agenda as New Zealand braced for its longest recession on record.  'There is more easing planned, the size is the question that is most uncertain,' said UBS senior economist Robin Clements.  'I've got another 50 basis points next month, and if there's signs of the world stabilising that might be chopped back to 25.'  A Reuters poll after the rate move showed nine of 15 economists expect another 25 basis point cut at the RBNZ's April 30 monetary review. Five each picked 50 and one saw no change.  The cash rate is seen bottoming at 2.5 percent by mid-year.  Bollard told CNBC television he might cut the rate below that level depending on broad economic conditions.  'It could go a little bit lower if we get softer news out of the rest of the world or if the New Zealand economy looks softer.'  The RBNZ will next review the cash rate on April 30.  Even at that predicted poll level, the kiwi would still be attractive at a time when returns in other currencies diminish. Interest rates are already near zero in the United States, Japan, Canada and Britain. In the euro zone, rates were slashed to a record low of 1.5 percent.  Thursday's move also comes after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) last week decided to keep its key rates steady at 3.25 percent, pinning its hopes on stimulus already in place to help the country avoid the depths of recession seen elsewhere.  Australia is New Zealand's biggest trading partner.  Unlike neighbouring Australia, which was only hit with its first economic contraction in eight years last quarter, New Zealand was in recession in the first three quarters of 2008.  The last time New Zealand suffered such a long period of economic contraction was in 1997/98 following the Asian financial crisis and drought. (Editing by Jan Dahinten)  
