The central bank considered cutting interest rates at its policy meeting this month but chose to pause to gauge the effect of past easing, noting there was still room for further stimulus if needed.  In the minutes of its March policy meeting released on Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) acknowledged the bleak outlook for global growth, but noted that previous steep cuts in rates combined with substantial fiscal stimulus were working to support domestic demand.  'The question for policy was whether further stimulus should be added at this meeting, or whether, having reduced rates at each meeting since September, the Board should pause for a further evaluation of the situation,' the minutes showed.  'Members could see reasonable cases for both courses of action.'  As it was, the policy-making board decided to hold the key cash rate at a record low of 3.25 per cent, surprising many in the markets who had bet on a cut.  The RBA had already eased by an aggressive 400 basis points since September, dragging variable mortgage rates sharply lower and delivering interest savings of well over $500 ($US330) a month to those on an average mortgage.  Still, the RBA left the door open for further cuts if needed.  'Members believed this would leave adequate flexibility for policy at future meetings,' the minutes showed.  Financial markets are betting the RBA will have to cut again given the tide of grim economic news abroad. Investors are pricing in an easing of around 25 basis points at the next policy meeting in April, and an ultimate bottom beneath 2.5 per cent.  'We argue that a pause does not mean the end of policy easing,' George Tharenou, an economist at UBS said, pointing to a run of dismal economic news since the March 3 meeting.  In particular, surveys of Australian business had found recessionary levels of sales, confidence and hiring.  'As such, we continue to anticipate more, but less aggressive, cuts from here, taking the cash rate to our terminal rate of two per cent by mid-year,' he argued.  In recession  The RBA's decision to skip a cut came just a day before data on gross domestic product showed Australia's economy had shrunk by 0.5 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2008, the first contraction in eight years.  The minutes showed RBA economists had advised the board that the figures would likely show a small fall in GDP. The current quarter was also looking sluggish, with recent data and liaison with retailers pointing to subdued activity.  Many private sector economists think GDP will shrink this quarter as well, tipping Australia into its first outright recession since 1991.  'The speed and scale of the global economic deterioration and its effect on confidence meant that in the near term domestic activity would unavoidably be weak,' the minutes showed.  Yet the board noted that official rates were now low by historical standards while mortgage rates were at multi-decade lows, stimulating demand for home loans.  The Labor government had also announced over $52 billion in fiscal stimulus, most of which was yet to be delivered.  'Indications were that monetary and fiscal stimulus was having an expansionary effect, but the size of this remained unclear and it would take some time for the full impact to come through,' the minutes showed.  Where to now?  While JPMorgan chief economist Stephen Walters expects the RBA to cut the cash rate by at least another 50 basis points in 2009, he said the board could pause again next month.  'Having set a high benchmark for staying on hold, something material has to happen to restart the easing cycle,' he said.  'That said, bearing in mind how close a call the March decision apparently was, we cannot rule out an earlier move, perhaps even on April 7.  St George bank chief economist Besa Deda sees the cash rate reaching a bottom of 2.25 per cent this year, adding that there is no certainty the RBA would cut next month.  'The bank forecast a possible rate cut in April, 25 basis points or 50 basis points at the most,' she said.  Westpac expects the RBA to cut by 25 basis points in April.  With unemployment hitting a four-year high of 5.2 per cent in February and forecast to reach at least seven per cent by mid-2010, Mr Walters said the RBA would have to cut rates to spur job creation.  'It will be difficult, for example, for RBA officials to sit on their hands as unemployment climbs towards double figures,' he said.  
