TOKYO, March 11 (Reuters) - The 10-year Japanese government   bond yield hit a one-month high on Wednesday on a plunge in U.S.   Treasury prices and as banks took profits on their debt holdings   ahead of annual book closings this month.   Comments by Citigroup's chief executive that the U.S.   bank was making profits also prompted investors to shift their   funds to stocks from government debt, with the Nikkei share   average surging 4 percent.   But losses in safe-haven JGBs were small, underpinned by   dismal domestic data and persistent investor concerns over the   health of the global financial sector.   'Just one day of positive news won't make us believe the   worst is over for the financial industry,' said Mari Iwashita,   chief market economist at Daiwa Securities SMBC.   'JGBs are expected to stay range-bound, with many investors   reluctant to make big bets.'   The new lead June JGB futures contract dipped 0.10 point to   138.50 after sliding to 138.34.   The 10-year JGB yield rose 1.5 basis points to 1.315 percent , the highest since Feb. 10.   Treasuries tumbled on Tuesday, pressured by surge on Wall   Street and concerns about huge government debt supply.   The Nikkei's surge came a day after it posted a 26-year   closing low just above 7,000. It has lost more than 40 percent   over the current business year.   The slump in Tokyo shares has forced banks and institutional   investors to take profits on JGBs before they close books later   this month. Most Japanese companies close their books in March.   'Banks do not look as they are done with bond selling,'   Daiwa's Iwashita said.   Japan's banks held 25.6 trillion yen ($259.5 billion) worth   of shares as of the end of March 2008, according to the Japanese   Bankers Association data.   The five-year yield edged up 0.5 basis point to 0.750 percent after matching a one-month high of 0.755 percent   first hit the previous day.   The two-year yield was up a basis point to 0.420 percent, a   one-month peak also first reached on Tuesday.   The 20-year yield edged down 0.5 basis point   to 1.885 percent.   Government data showed on Wednesday Japanese wholesale prices   marked their biggest annual fall in nearly six years in February,   prompting warnings that Japan faces broader deflation than just   the one-off effect of sliding oil prices.   In another gloomy sign, core machinery orders fell 3.2   percent in January as companies cut spending in response to a   global downturn that is pushing Japan into the worst recession   since World War Two  Messaging: rika.otsuka.reuters.com@reuters.net)) Double-click on brackets for following items:   JGB historical auction results   JGB benchmark data from JBTC brokers' broker   JGB composite data from Reuters   JGB long and super-long sectors (OTC)   JGB medium-term sector (OTC)   JGB futures composite   Japanese debt Speed Guide   Yen currency/swaps/derivatives Speed Guide   JGB closing prices/yields from brokers' broker   Lead 10-year JGB futures on TSE 10-year JGB futures on TSE (day session) 10-year JGB futures on TSE (night session) 10-year JGB futures on LIFFE 10-year JGB futures on SIMEX   10-year JGB future options on TSE   Tokyo Mitsubishi Securities yen bond index   TIFFE euroyen futures   SIMEX euroyen futures   CME euroyen futures   Yen OIS from Meitan Tradition   Yen OIS on BOJ meetings from Meitan Tradition   Yen OIS from Totan Capital   Yen TIBOR (Tokyo interbank offered rate)   Yen LIBOR (London interbank offered rate)   Yen interest rate swaps contributed Yen interest rate swaps from Totan Capital   World yields summary 
