Jobs advertised online and in newspapers fell 10.4% in February alone, the most in any month since the survey began, to an average of 161,583 a week, according to ANZ Bank which compiles the data. The drop accelerated from a 6.3% slump in January.  ''The trends in job advertising in Australia suggest a substantial rise in the unemployment rate is likely,'' said ANZ economist Warren Hogan.  Jobless rate to rise  Mr Hogan said ANZ had raised its unemployment rate forecast to 6.5% by the end of the year and 7.5% by the middle of 2010.   Pacific Brands last month announced job losses of as many as 1850 staff as the company prepares to shift most of its remaining production to China. Holden, Lend Lease and Lonely Planet are among other companies to reveal plans to scale back output and reduce employment to cope with slumping demand.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics will release unemployment figures for February on Thursday, with economists expecting the jobless rate to rise to 5% from 4.8% in January, which would be the highest since April 2006.  Analysts are predicting the economy shed 20,000 jobs last month, compared with a gain of 1200 positions in January.  The tumbling jobs data, along with weak NAB business conditions reading revealed today, paint a grim picture for the labour market this year.  The NAB business conditions index shrank to minus-20 in February, the lowest since June of 1992, when the nation was last in recession, following a minus-11 reading in January.  Online ads drop too  Newspaper ads alone collapsed 25.2% in February, ANZ said, taking them 55.4% lower than a year ago.  ''But newspaper advertising is down 27% over the summer and 44% since the collapse of Lehman Brothers,'' ANZ's Mr Hogan said in a statement, referring to the collapse of the US investment bank in September.  Jobs posted online dropped 9.4% in February, or 38.6% lower than a year ago.  The slump is ''the largest monthly decline since the combined internet and newspaper series commenced in 1999,''. ''The annual rate of decline, at 40%, is also the worst outcome on this record.'' 'Recent trends in job advertising are consistent with other indicators which suggest that the Australian economy entered recession in late 2008 and remains in recession in early 2009,'' Mr Hogan said.  The Australian economy contracted by 0.5% in the final quarter of 2008. Two consecutive quarters of GDP declines is the conventional definition of a recession.  No state spared  Every state experienced a double-digit fall in the number of newspaper ads, with mining state Western Australian leading the plunge.  Its newspaper job advertising collapsed by 29.8%.  Exports of iron ore and coal to China, which helped power the economy over the past five years, have been hit by a sharp fall in the value of commodities as well as a dive in demand from Asian customers.  Newspaper job ads in the ACT fell 27.4%.  Victoria fared the best, with newspaper job ads easing 18.3% in February.  Print ads in resources-focused Queensland lost 26.5%, while in NSW they fell 25.8%.  South Australia registered 22.2% fewer jobs ads, while Tasmania shed 19.5%.  czappone@fairfax.com.au  BusinessDay 
