Australia is already well into a recession. The latest annual accounts figures are a look into the rear-view mirror and are already well out of date.   Events are moving quickly now and the political bickering in Canberra over whether Australia is in recession or not is irrelevant nonsense.   This recession has been caused by the three interest rate increases foisted on an already weakening economy in November 2007, and again in February and March last year by Glenn Stevens, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor.   The global financial crisis (GFC as Prime Minister Kevin Rudd likes to call it) is morphing into the global economic crisis (Rudd won't admit this yet) and it has yet to hit Australia properly.  We are seeing only the first ripples on our shores. The tsunami that is engulfing the US and Europe and much of Asia will arrive over the next few months.   The only thing that is saving Australia from falling as quickly as the US and Europe into conditions bordering on depression has been the depreciation of the dollar which has lifted export revenues and reduced import consumption.   The federal government's first stimulus package of $10.4 billion before Christmas, which gave retailers and poker machine owners a one-month revenue burst, has gone now, and partially offset the delayed impact of Stevens' ill-advised interest rate increases. That impact came in the last quarter of 2008.   Kevin Rudd and his nervous Treasurer Wayne Swan are throwing another $42 billion to counter the far more destructive impact of the global economic crisis, which is just starting to hit. This money too will disappear without hitting the sides.   It will be too little, too late. Had Rudd and Swan taken the slightest bit of notice when $500 billion was wiped off the value of the Australian stock market between January and March last year " losses that dwarf the size of their stimulus package " and acted by mid-2008, then Australia wouldn't be staring over a precipice now.   They should have sacked Glenn Stevens too after his third rate rise last March. This was an act of sheer folly and displayed reckless lack of judgement.   Australians are paying the price now for that act of madness. To protect him on the grounds that he is supposed to be 'independent' is an act of breathtaking denial.   The 0.5 percent decline in the economy for the December quarter is only the start. For the politicians to declare that Australia is doing well comparatively is also a sign of denial and shows just how out of touch Canberra is. Do they think this is the end of it?   The March quarter will show further declines in economic activity. Australia will join the rest of the major economies shrinking at rates of between 2-5 percent.   The reason there is some certainty in this forecast is that the dire conditions overseas are getting worse.   In his latest Downunder Daily report, Morgan Stanley's Gerard Minack, says the US subprime crisis, which triggered the broader world financial crisis, is developing into a prime crisis, in which previously credit worthy borrowers are getting into trouble.   Of the 4.4 percent of delinquencies in the US about half now are 'prime' borrowers. By comparison, in Australia the number is typically well below 1 percent, and " before this crisis " US delinquencies peaked at 2 percent in the late 1980s.   This will mean another wave of write downs and provisions by US lenders already still catching up with the losses on their subprime exposures.   Minack reckons US institutions have lost US$812 billion ($1.26 trillion) so far in this crisis but have only managed to raise US$571 billion ($892 billion). This is a very large gap with another wave of losses about to hit.   The situation in the US, Europe, and Eastern Europe in particular, is dire and deteriorating. Australia is only suffering so far from the recession Glenn Stevens gave us. Worse is to come.   Apart from the dollar, there is little else to save Australia from further economic decline. It certainly won't be attempts to buy votes on a large scale ahead of a cynically timed early election. * Mark Wes
