We take risks every day in our lives. Simply waking up and stepping out of the front door is a risk. Can you be absolutely certain that you will not be run over as soon as you step out onto the pavement? It is a risk which we take and must take if we are to survive. Doubtless, a number of people have attempted to investigate the possibility of staying within the confines of their home and ordering everything online but the end result is the same  you will need to exit the domicile at some point, particularly if the building has caught fire.Businesses are risks. Simply starting a business is a risk because one can never be too sure that it will be successful or a complete failure. Investing more money or slowing down on the investment into the business is also a risk, albeit a calculated one. The point of conjecture is generally the same: risks need to be taken if a business is to survive and the recent financial crisis stemming throughout the world at present only serves to reinforce the fact that risk, corruption and mismanagement of both do not mix. It is generally ideal to employ the former rather than the latter. I believe the climate in Fiji concerning risk is also beginning to change. In the past businesses often copied or simply mirrored the way organizations similar to theirs operated in other countries. For example, a company which initially started off as a simple label printing company eventually diversified itself by also providing packaging for products. The risk was fairly high when taking such a step because there are countless other traders who label and package their own goods. What made this company special was that it had already established itself as a reliable labelling company which produced a high quality of service. The additional products it started selling as time went by simply improved their profit returns as clients trusted the companys ability to continue to produce high quality items. This was a risk the company had taken and for some reason it had paid off. Perhaps it had something to do with the brand name or perhaps they simply knew the market better than other packaging and labelling companies. Whatever the reason, the company thrived well.In the world of risks, one must always be careful not just in ensuring that the risks taken pay off but also ensure that the company has not gone in a direction or exposed itself unnecessarily by the misguided additional profits which could easily dwindle away over time. Risks can be considered long term and short term. Long term risks do not become apparent immediately. Their effects are felt at a much later stage and a classic example of this would be AIG and a few other companies in the US. Short term risks are felt immediately. Short term risks can often taken place within a matter of days and while their impacts can be significant, they can be managed quickly and corrections can be made before the impact is felt greatly by the organization. Long term risks are the more dangerous of the two. These are risks which often cripple organizations to the point of bankruptcy and because their impacts are not felt immediately, most organizations assume that the risk they took earlier has paid off. AIG is the best example for this. The company began as an insurance company and ended up investing in areas such as real estate, horse racing, airlines and other areas which were not its core business. How the organization eventually crumbled is known widely to one and all now but the issue which has continued to raise eyebrows is the inability of the company to have effectively managed its risks. Every time AIG branched out into a new area, the risks that were foreseen were insufficient. This is clearly indicative in the companys inability to honour its clients insurance payments when the credit crunch hit the US economy. AIG crashed over-night which saw countless people losing their very livelihoods.The twist in this story is the risk taken by the government. The US government moved as swiftly as the company fell to bail it out using billions of dollars which effectively gave them absolute control over AIG. In doing so, the government took an even larger risk whereby it foresaw that the situation regarding AIG could be managed by halting its non-core roles and where possible, reducing operation and capital processes. AIG is still not out of the water as yet but the government has managed to bring it to a point which is manageable and over time, the company is expected to be able to stand on its own feet once again.The turn of events has shown us a few important things. One is that companies which take risks need to be certain their risks will pay off. In addition to this, companies need to take risks sometimes to ensure that their business is able to meet the challenges of the future. It is no secret that most organizations are diversifying. You simply cannot expect to continue rolling happily along using your core business as the sole revenue generator. A risk needs to be taken and the organization needs to diversify itself to ensure that in the event the core business begins to fail, the other areas of the diversification plan are able to balance the spin off and bring some form of semblance back into the business. Diversification is a good thing but it can easily become a monster if the company begins to diversify into many areas at once. The idea is to always diversify into sufficient areas that will act as a secondary backbone for the core functions of your business and to do this, the business must be willing and able to recognize the positive and the negatives of the risks. To simply assume that all risk is a bad thing is ridiculous and if that were the case for every company, it would be better off sticking its head inside its shell and not doing anything  in which case it would probably collapse anyway.The point which I am trying to drive at here is that risks need be taken a little more realistically. Our current view of risks involves a lot of useless paperwork and spiffy looking graphs which are supposed to give us different ratings for different risks. The problem is that most of the data we collate is generally about the bad sides of the risk. Very rarely do we look at the positive side of a risk. We have far too long taken the dictionary definition of risk and labelled it a bad boy. If a business does not take a calculated risk, then how does it intend to survive the new wave of business competition which we will undoubtedly see once the global recession ends? This was fairly obvious after the dot com crunch. A number of organizations chose to play it safe and ended up on the short end of the stick when other organizations employed different ways to enable them to quickly bounce back into the game. One need only Google the dot com crunch to find out just how many organizations went from something to nothing overnight while others managed to weather the storm by taking massive risks which paid off handsomely  Google is a great example.I am an IT professional and my profession requires me to take risks daily  the risks usually taken in IT to get results is like playing Russian roulette. IT professionals need to be able to make decisions on the fly and often the decisions are the ones which determine whether or not your network and users will be able to function after the decision is taken. When youre pressed for time and you know that your organizations productivity is going down the tube every minute you waste, it becomes pretty easy to see that IT professionals have little or no time to sit and test every action before applying it in the live environment. I have done this many a time because testing takes time and the best way forward is to simply take the risk and hope everything goes according to plan  they generally do.At the end of all of this, the important issue I feel we need to realize is that without risks, businesses are not likely to succeed. Without risks, businesses cannot even guarantee their shareholders that they will continue to provide the same or greater rate of return despite the current economic climate. We need to take risks and look at them as positives instead of negatives. We need to be able to judge a risk and then decide how much to invest into it and ensure that if there is a failure in the venture, then the rate of loss is minimized as much as possible. I firmly believe that we need to look at most risks as positive contributors to our organizations and our economy  how else can we be certain of being able to survive the new wave of economic challenges lying ahead of us? By sitting in our shells and pretending that we will be able to survive on our core functions? I think the answer is fairly obvious.Have a great week!!!
