 Capitol Hill publication CQ dissected the re-election challenge faced by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., and it may be an uphill battle for the Constitution State's longest serving senator.  A March 10 Quinnipiac University poll showed Dodd in a statistical dead heat with former Republican Congressman Rob Simmons, who announced Monday he would challenge Dodd. According to CQ, Republicans sense the five-term lawmakers' vulnerability because of Connecticut voters' anger for neglecting the state during his failed run for the presidential nomination in 2008.  Since the financial crisis lit up, the bad press just keeps coming for Dodd. First there were revelations of favorable mortgage terms from a loan he took out from campaign contributor Countrywide, now part of Bank of America Corp. (NYSE:BAC). Now, reports surface of his role exempting existing bonus contracts, including those infamous retention payouts at American International Group Inc. (NYSE:AIG), another major corporate campaign donor, from executive compensation limits. Additionally, questions are surfacing about his ties to government-sponsored entities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and a possible sweetheart deal with a former Bear Stearns Cos. executive that may have helped him get an Ireland vacation cottage. Democrats can typically count on Dodd's prodigious fundraising capabilities to build a giant campaign war chest, built on donations from the financial firms that do business before his committee. This year Dodd must pull off a deft balancing act by  convincing the financial giants at the heart of the financial meltdown to donate  generously to his campaign while he spouts just enough tough populist regulatory vitriol to convince home state voters he's not the industry's lackey. However, Dodd's re-election campaign is not necessarily doomed from the start thanks to Republican in-fighting. Despite the Quinnipiac poll, Simmons is just one of many GOP contenders. Besides Simmons, at least two other Republicans -- state Sen. Sam Caligiuri and Tom Foley, the former ambassador to Ireland -- are expected to join the race, and even CNBC host Larry Kudlow has hinted he may join them. - Bill McConnell See story from CQ 
