Let&#8217;s ignore the fact that it&#8217;s wildly unconstitutional and would never stand up in a court of law, we have to do something to deflect from the fact that this is all our fault! Oh yeah, we also need to make sure nobody notices the $1.5 bil we created out of thin air to purchase assets. We also need to make sure more people don&#8217;t start making this argument (one of my major problems with this whole taxation debacle) Right now its AIG and Fannie Mae; later it will be Merrill and Citibank, and eventually it will be defense contractors, profiteering oil executives, or whomever the Congressional Dems single out as their whipping boy du jour. And of course, rolling this ex post tax out at the same time the Fed and Treasury are trying to encourage private investors to partner up with the government to get the credit markets moving again is insane. What investor needs the likely aggravation to follow? Who needs to be hauled in front of Barney Frank a year from now in order to be blasted as a profiteer who exploited our national crisis for his own profit, which Barney will then tax back? Who will be daft enough to come out of retirement as Liddy did to endure the abuse Liddy took? Indeed. A few other thoughts on the &#8220;let&#8217;s tax the crap out of AIG bonuses&#8221; debacle; I&#8217;m not sure if the Bill of Attainder argument stands, but in my view this is seizure of assets which Congress has no standing to do. In my view this is stepping on the toes of the judicial branch who do have the right to seize assets after actually charging someone with a crime worthy of such a measure. Which brings me to my second point; nobody has committed a crime here. AIG had both a legal obligation and Congressional approval to pay out those bonuses. If the masses are going to be pissed at someone, why not be pissed at the nincompoops in Congress/Team Obama who gave AIG permission to release the bonuses? For those who argue that it&#8217;s so wrong for AIG to pay out these bonuses, what else would you have them do? Expose themselves to dozens of breach of contract lawsuits? Ideally the contract would have been renegotiated when Congress gave AIG the initial bailout, but that didn&#8217;t happen. So again, what would you have them do? Once again, Team Obama and our Congress are trying to get you to focus on the wrong thing. There are much, much bigger problems out there than AIG bonuses and the longer they can keep attention on this the longer they can go without dealing with the actual problems. Posted in Government Foolishness Tagged: AIG, news, politics      
