AIG = American Insurance GroupTentacles are everywhere around the world. Current bailout funds, even in the hundreds of billions, will not be enough.Too big to fail? Did they mean the Titanic, or the sort of reckoning which includes the fall of their customers? Do the think they can't fail, because the world will fall with them? If that is the case, they are mistaken.So much for the American Insurance Group. Just like the stock market. But my problem is not with either. Rather, it is with the reasons given for these failures.The buzz on the TV holds irresponsible lending as the "reason" for the collapse ofbanks and financial markets.But the sheer size of AIG and its subsidiaries (not unlike Citigroup in girth) leads me to believe that their role as an insurer around the world has been compromised, notsimply by mortgage defaults; but by the forces of nature.I am a writer, not an investigative reporter. I hold none of the professional qualifications which the TV would have you know to be very important. And it really doesnt matter. I know, as an American citizen, that there have been an awful lot of storms, wildfires, earthquakes, floods, and blizzards in my country recently. They are happening everywhere. The aftermath causes a lot of insurance payouts.Calm weather in the twenty-first century would have allowed the American Insurance Group to absorb even the most foolish of home loans. Bad mortgages were the tipping point, but not the mortal wound. The public media focus shows a disturbing ability to ignore the weather. And increasingly, our planet responds by making a show of it.The more dirt, dust, and grime that gets spewed into the air; the faster the polar icecaps will melt. Sea levels rise, ocean temperature increases. Six foot snowstorms are soon to become commonplace along Northern oceanic coastlines. Hopefully they wont occur more than twice a year. Glacial precipitation will spread everywhere. It is going to happen. The level of brutality is somewhat up to us. The United States may not be able to change the world in a heartbeat; but we can lead the way.AIG is likely finished no matter the amount of bailouts. It has been estimated that one on three Americans will be affected. I do not know who comes up with these statistics; but after an internet search through their corporate divisions and subsidiaries, it is obvious there will be pain. The future will not favor this type of monster corporation; but in the dying off, a readjustment will be necessary. I urge you all to do the same thing: Remain calm and reduce your carbon footprint.From what I have watched in the media world and the blogospheres, there seems to be a rising level of panic. It is not necessary, and it is not part of the solution. Economic prosperity of the new age walks hand-in-hand with a true respect for nature. Clean air, water, and earth are the answer to a new prosperity. These elements are part of each of us. We have the technology to respect that. Greed is no excuse for acting otherwise. Many career changes will be necessary. Given the alternative, it is not a bad deal. My personal views run kind of deep  to the point where I think that our planet is conscious. Really we have no excuse at this point for harming our spaceship. On an individual note: this is not the type of thinking which fits in well at a job fair. What can I say? I am who I am.The change in climate is probably going to continue. My belief is that our efforts towards recycling and clean power will reduce its velocity to a point where the United States can make economic headway. Hire the unemployed to clean up the trash. Use domestic recycled materials to renew our infrastructure. Catch up on wind and solar and geothermal power. Just like every other developed country, we have what we need for a bright future. Do not be afraid to hope. Be audacious!Tom Schimmel is a writer living in the South.His paperless eBooks are available though his website at www.smashwords.com 
