Jay Newton-Small:......  the AIG bonus scandal could make that repair job even harder than it already is. Growing doubts about the Administration's revitalization plan have now mushroomed into a full-blown credibility crisis. After all, how can Obama ask for upwards of another $750 billion for another bank bailout (as he has in his 2010 budget) and $100 billion to help the world economies, when it appears the Administration has had little control over how the banks have been spending the money thus far?   And the remedies Congress is in a fever pitch to approve may well end up hurting the rescue efforts. The bonus bills, which would apply to virtually every major bank  including Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan Chase, as well as AIG, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  will probably cause many of them to simply give back the TARP money sooner than they probably should, to avoid losing their best people to foreign banks, boutique firms or hedge funds that can pay bigger bonuses. "The week's events will cause a brain drain of salespeople, rank and file and middle management to non-TARP companies," said Scott Talbott, vice president of the Financial Services Roundtable, which represents Wall Street's interests in Washington. "The loss of these employees will weaken TARP companies." The compensation crackdown already has other private sector players thinking twice about partnering with the Administration to help unload the banks' toxic assets and get the credit markets moving. (Read "Freddie Mac: Government's New Black Hole?.")    "This bill is nothing more than an attempt for everybody to cover their butt up here on Capitol Hill," said House Republican leader John Boehner, one of the few party bigwigs on either side of the aisle to openly question the wisdom of the legislative rush. "It's full of loopholes. A lot of these people who are getting these bonuses likely live in London. And it's not clear how raising this tax is going to recover that money."... Democrat Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, echoed those concerns, arguing that pursuing restitution by other means was preferable. House Ways and Means Chairman Charlie Rangel also opposed using the tax code "as a political weapon" until the Speaker sat on him to write the legislation passed Thursday in the House. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus defended his measure, saying that by expanding the pool of bonus recipients to all institutions that have received $100 million from the government, the legislation would likely survive judicial challenge. "We've pushed the constitutional question pretty hard with constitutional experts and we think it's okay," Baucus said.   Likewise, Democrats and Republicans have concerns about the constitutionality of the Judiciary Committee's bill, which would authorize the Justice Department to sue for the return of bonuses given to employees of companies that have received more than $10 billion from the government. The legislation, if passed, would also allow the Attorney General to restrict future payments to 10 times the average non-management wages at companies receiving TARP funds. "Congress has let expediency override common sense," said Representative Lamar Smith, the top Judiciary Committee Republican. "Congress already has learned the hard way the unintended consequences of rushing to legislate without adequate expert testimony and debate, but that's exactly what we are doing now."...If I were advising one of the shops effected by this legislation, I would recommend that they consider adjusting salaries upward and do away with bonuses.  By increasing the salaries, they may be able to retain the employees who would otherwise leave and those employees will avoid the confiscatory taxes.  The down side to this is that the companies assume more risks on profitability, but the Democrats seem hell bent on destroying that objective too.
