  A blessing mistaken, battles cries to a war torn nation in disgrace an abomanation rise's into beaing. This new way of life has no morallity left. We will never take each other hands in peace and in such times we will suffer the greatest indignities. Starvation and suffering, murdering other nations for their resources. All because of a measure of wealth created under false pretense by banks of our nations we so faithfully trust our money in. Combine the latter with a lack of recsor's, and shrinking land masses in critically and also highly populated areas. Under the conditions war would seem rather inebidable in the eyes of most men. Though solutions exist for all of these problems we would rather deepen the wound to our world and societies. The problem starts with money, and the banks ability to create money out of thin air, then loan it out.  Someone makes a deposite in Ohio for five billion recieved for the bail out, to the Bank Of America. This is of course payment to the bank for long term use in paying the saleries of the company for the next year. So the banks accountant or president doe's some quick math. He discovers he has the resources, I.E money to reinvest in whom, no other then his own bank, and in a totally legal, but rather unethically rooted way. In every sense of the word unethical, that by the way is brought to a whole new level. The bank leaves ten percent in the origonal account. Taking the other 4.5 billion and opening a new account. Then leaving ten percent in the second account and repeating the process untill they have achieved their goal. What could this goal be, well simply to turn 5 billion into ten times the origonal amount. Creating 50 billion, but it's 50 billion the doe's not exist other then in their books. Then they lend this false wealth, people begin making payments and they have the revinue to pay the company that made the deposite. When all the banks do this though say with lump sums the size of our bail out. You turn 754 billion into 7.54 trillion and this is the second bailout i didn't even include bush's stimulus package.  So then when people all come looking for their money and there is only 1.2 trillion of physical currency for 12 trillion in wealth people can't get their money. you'd be 10.8 billion away. Which is where our economy is heading. But thats not the worst part, the worst part is it has breached our boarders and is now an international problem involving forgine lenders, and we all know the largest forgine lenders are other governments.
