So this is a bit rediculous. Finally "justice" has been done in the financial upheavel. The White House...okay, lets call it what it is, the White House doesn't say anything, Obama...did what should have been done four months ago. The GM CEO was asked to step down.This is why I think this is rediculous. If I owned a successful business, and lets just say that one day things turned and it went down the tubes and was bought out by another business. Strategic move and it gets done all the time. But really, the first thing everyone knows about business is that when one buys out another the CEO of the buyer fires the CEO of the one that was sold. Why? Because obviously he can't manage because he ran his business into the ground and it ended up being sold. HA!Its about darn time! So you know who else needs to be gone? The Chrystler CEO, CitiGroup CEO (but I will say, they're turning profits now), the Bank of America CEO, as well as the CEO of AIG. AIG is the biggest joke...their excuse for allowing their employees keeping their bonuses is that they need to keep their people to turn the company around. Good grief that is the biggest load of crap I have ever heard. With the highest unemployment rate in decades there are probably hundreds of (more than) qualified people to run and turn around AIG. Congress has GOT to be blind not to see that.My dad for one...knows how to run a business! The first thing he did when the business started to go down due to the economy years ago was him and his co-owner took a paycut and gave everyone else a raise. That is management. Even when they have no work, he still goes to work. And everytime an employee's wife has a baby, he comes home and says, "I have one more mouth to feed." That's the way he looks at running a business...the employees and their families have to eat and he's got the responsibility to give them work to do to keep them fed.This world would be a different place, our economy would be a different place, if we started looking at running busniess with the thinking that we have to feed our employees and their families, send the children of employees to college, save up for retirement for employees as well as ourselves, and helping employees strive for the luxuries in life as owners does themselves.Now, as a taxpayer and owner of AIG, GM, Chrystler, Bank of America, CitiGroup (which, by the way my student loans are through), and I'm sure a "few" others, fire the wealthy bastards that did this (they have plenty of money to retire on) and put some well qualified unemployed people to work, damn it! You don't need to be a genius to figure that out. Get to work Obama, your home is DC now, not Chicago!
