Gerda Wikander, now 94, discovered art at a tender young age. 'I was about 3 years old the first time I remember doing anything with art. Now, my exhibition, 'A Blessed Journey,' is about a long life,' she said.The artist's paintings and textiles are on display at the Bank of America Gallery on the downtown square through March. She will host an opening reception there today from 2 to 4 p.m.  Wikander's artistry sprouted from the cultures of the various countries in which she has lived, and convey a ribbon of gentleness woven through paintings and textiles.  Born in Brooklyn, New York, her interest in art grew as she grew. She studied at the Pratt Institute, with plans for art as her vocation. 'But when I graduated in 1933, there were no jobs for fine art. So art became my avocation. I developed a career in fashion and advertising,' Wikander said. Her forte was hosiery design.  Wikander married her childhood sweetheart, Earl, and they had a daughter, Kristina May.'My husband died when Kristina was 4 years old. We were living in Connecticut. I paid off the mortgage and settled in with Kristina. When Kristina was 9, I decided she needed to experience another culture for a while, so we moved to Austria for one year.'They then returned to Connecticut.  By the time her daughter was in her early teens, the duo entered what Wikander describes as 'wanderlust' and moved to Sweden for two years. 'It was an opportunity for Kristina to learn the culture of her father's heritage,' she said.But again, they returned to their lovely old home in Connecticut.  After Kristina was grown, Wikander, of Irish heritage, went to Ireland in 1978. Her best friend, Kernochan Bowen, was Irish and had retired and moved to Ireland and invited her to come. She planned to stay for four months.'I fell in love with Eire and stayed for 15 years; the best of my life,' Wikander said.At age 79, she returned to Connecticut.  During her forays to other lands she kept improving her artistic skills, and adapted her learned arts into her own style. Wikander's show at Bank of America is varied and showcases her skill, but some works won't be shown there.'Few pieces of my original artwork is left, thanks to very active Skibbereen Society Exhibits in Sweden and sales. My Irish legacy hangs in the Cork Museum in Ireland: Six matching hand-woven tapestries depicting Cork's ancient walled city are displayed,' she said.Wikander still retains her Ridgefield, Conn., home and owns a home in Ocala, too.'I spend more and more time each year locally, usually from October to July,' she said.During her months in Ocala, she volunteers Fridays at Munroe Regional Medical Center.'I believe in volunteering, I have all my life,' she said.Jennifer Wood, director of MRMC's volunteers, said of Wikandar, 'She's a beautiful woman. If everybody would do 10 percent of what she does, at almost 95, what a better place the world would be. She's uplifting.'Wikander said long years run in her family. 'My brother, John, just got remarried. He's 90.'Wikander, who never remarried, paints a word picture of herself as having a 'love affair with the arts.' Though her hands can't manipulate weaving anymore, 'painting will always be a part of my life,' she said. 
