A couple of days after a similar announcement by U.S. Bancorp, Wells Fargo announced today that it also is slashing its quarterly dividend payment to investors to a nickel per share.  The San Francisco-based bank, one of Minnesota's largest private employers, said the dividend cut will strengthen the company's balance sheet to the tune of $5 billion per year.  Meanwhile, Wells Fargo Chairman Richard Kovacevich is upping his investment in the bank. Kovacevich bought 100,000 shares of his employer's stock on Thursday, the Star Tribune reports.  As explained Sunday by Star Tribune columnist Neal St. Anthony, when officers and directors buy their own company's stock, it generally means they believe the value will rise in the next several months to a year.  The people who track such insider trading lately have noticed an increase in buying, including activity at U.S. Bancorp, Hormel Foods and Zareba Systems. Is it a sign these leaders believe the worst is over, and they're willing to put their money on it?  Economy   Fri, Mar 6 2009 9:18 am    0 Comments  0 Comment Comment  Like what you just read? Support high-quality journalism in Minnesota by becoming a member of MinnPost.  Advertisement:  0 Comments: Hide/Show Comments  0 Comment: Hide/Show Comment  0 Comments:  Post a comment:  Please remember that user comments are reviewed by moderators to ensure that comments meet these standards and adhere to MinnPost's terms of use and privacy policy. Your email address will not be published with your comments.  Edit Profile   Log Out  Post a comment:  To post a comment, please log in below as a registered commenter.  E-mail address  Password  Remember me for two weeks.  Forgot Password?   Register to Comment  MinnPost does not permit the use of foul language, personal attacks or the use of language that may be libelous or interpreted as inciting hate or sexual harassment. User comments are reviewed by moderators to ensure that comments meet these standards and adhere to MinnPost's terms of use and privacy policy.  We intend for this area to be used by our readers as a place for civil, thought-provoking and high-quality public discussion. In order to achieve this, MinnPost requires that all commenters register and post comments with their actual names and place of residence. Register here to comment.  
