MADAGASCAR  The leader of a group of mutinous soldiers declared himself head of Madagascar's army Wednesday, raising questions about the president's hold on power in the island nation.   Col. Andre Ndrianarijaona walked into the offices of the army chief of staff in the capital Wednesday and emerged after less than an hour to tell reporters that the chief had yielded his post.   The army's support for President Marc Ravalomanana began to waver last month after security forces killed at least 25 demonstrators, who were accusing him of misusing state funds and undermining democracy.   Zimbabwe's Supreme Court ordered the release on bail of a senior official of the Movement for Democratic Change on Wednesday in a sign tensions may be easing in the new unity government.   Roy Bennett, who was set to become deputy agriculture minister in the power-sharing government of President Robert Mugabe and Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai, was arrested Feb. 13 and charged with plotting terrorism.   Meanwhile, Australia pledged $10 million to Zimbabwe, becoming the first Western country to offer direct support to the new administration.   A Greek far-left militant group, Revolutionary Struggle, asserted responsibility Wednesday for a powerful fertilizer bomb planted at Citibank's offices in Athens last month and for this week's bombing of one of the bank's branches.   Although the car bomb planted at the offices Feb. 18 failed to detonate, police said it contained enough explosives to destroy the four-story building. Monday's attack on a Citibank branch in northwestern Athens caused damage but no injuries.   Violence by domestic militant groups has escalated in Greece since December, when the fatal police shooting of a teenager sparked major riots.   North Korea has told the International Maritime Organization that it plans to launch a satellite between April 4 and April 8, according to South Korea's Yonhap news agency, which cited a Seoul intelligence source. South Korean and U.S. officials see such a launch as a disguised missile test.   Several thousand Irish Catholics and British Protestants united in a silent protest against Irish Republican Army dissidents who gunned down two soldiers and a policeman this week, attacks that threaten to revive sectarian bloodshed in Northern Ireland. More than 2,000 people gathered in front of Belfast City Hall, and thousands more gathered in the predominantly Catholic border cities of Londonderry and Newry.   The head of a leading Palestinian human rights group, who is facing an Israeli travel ban, prepared to accept a major Dutch prize by videoconference from his West Bank office. Shawan Jabarin, director of al-Haq, had hoped to travel to the Netherlands to accept the Geuzenpenning prize on behalf of his group, but the Israeli Supreme Court this week upheld the ban, citing security concerns.   A group of U.S. athletes is in Iran for an international wrestling competition, even as speculation swirls about a thaw in relations between the longtime foes. Six American wrestlers will take part in a two-day tournament in Tehran, starting Thursday. Last month, Iran did not issue visas for a U.S. women's badminton team, a move the Obama administration said at the time was 'unfortunate.' Ecuadoran police have captured a Colombian guerrilla commander wanted by Washington on charges that he helped run cocaine smuggling operations. The capture of Sixto Antonio Cabaa is Ecuador's first major arrest of a member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia since it broke ties with Bogota a year ago over a raid by Colombian commandos into Ecuadoran territory.   From News Services 
