A Manhattan art dealer was charged on Thursday with an $88 million (61 million) fraud whose alleged victims included John McEnroe, the former Wimbledon champion, and 25 other art collectors and investors.  Lawrence Salander is accused of selling shares to investors in art which he didn't even own or selling the same share in an artwork several times over.   Vendors who consigned him art to sell said they never saw the paintings, or a share of the proceeds, again. After being arrested at his home in upstate New York, Mr Salander was charged with 100 counts, including grand larceny, forgery, perjury and securities fraud committed over a 13-year period ending in 2007. Mr Salander, 59, has previously denied any wrongdoing.  His former gallery, housed in a grand, Italianate Upper East Side town house, which he rented for $1.8 million (1.2 million) a year, was once cited as the best in the world by The Robb Report, a luxury guide.  The now bankrupt Salander-O'Reilly Galleries displayed paintings ranging from landscapes by John Constable to contemporary art by Robert De Niro Snr, the actor's late father.  A judge ordered it to cease trading 17 months ago following a string of lawsuits alleging that Mr Salander had reneged on his obligations. One of the lawsuits claimed the gallery was no more than a Ponzi scheme.  The litigants included McEnroe, who invested $2 million (1.4 million) for a half-share of two paintings, Arshile Gorky's Pirate I and II, but never recouped the money, said prosecutors.  Creditors claim they are owed about $500 million (346 million), some of which may be recouped by the sale of around 4,000 pieces reportedly still in the gallery's possession when it was closed.  Others who claim to have lost money include Renaissance Art Investors, a company that invests in old master paintings, which says it was defrauded out of $45 million.  Earl Davis, the son of the American abstract painter Stuart Davis, lost $6.7 million while Bank of America lost $2 million after Mr Salander lied about paintings he owned to secure a loan, said prosecutors. 'He sold artwork not owned by him and kept the money, and lured investment money in fraudulent investment opportunities,' Robert Morgenthau, Manhattan's district attorney Robert Morgenthau told a news conference. 'Why sell it once when you can sell it three times?' Mr Morgenthau said the dealer also represented the estate of De Niro's artist father but the film star was not involved in the allegations.  Prosecutors say others may be charged in the fraud and investigations are continuing.  Mr Salander travelled extensively across the US and Europe in a private plane, searching for Renaissance art he could re-sell for a profit.  He, his wife and their seven children lived a few streets north of his gallery in a rented six-floor, 9,000-sq ft town house. Its owner put it on the market last year for $75 million. 
