A high-society art dealer in New York was charged yesterday with stealing $88 million (61 million) from investors and collectors including tennis star John McEnroe.   Lawrence Salander, who ran a gallery New Yorks Upper East Side for over 30 years, was arrested at his country home in Millbrook, north of New York.   Prosecutors claimed he defrauded 26 victims by stealing artwork or promising them fraudulent investment opportunities.   They said he used the money to support an extravagant lifestyle, which included travel by private jet within the United States and to Europe, a lavish party for his wife at the Frick Collection [in New York] and the purchase and maintenance of his Manhattan townhouse and 66-acre estate in Millbrook. On one occasion, he allegedly applied for a $2 million personal loan with his wife Julie from the Bank of America, pledging as security several pieces of art that he did not own.   Among the victims were the estates of prominent 20th Century artists, including the abstract painter Stuart Davis, whose son allegedly lost $6.7 million.   McEnroe, the three-time Wimbledon tennis champion, invested $2 million for a half share of two paintings, Arshile Gorkys Pirate I and II, but never recouped the money, authorities said.   Actor Robert De Niro also fell foul of Mr Salander. He claims the dealer stole 12 works painted by his late father, Robert De Niro Sr.   The paintings were allegedly among 50 pieces of art that the actor consigned to the gallery. He says they were used instead to pay off a $5 million debt to an Italian gallery. De Niros claims were not part of the charges, however. Mr Salanders legal troubles began with a flurry of lawsuits claiming that he had failed to pay his investors by promised deadlines.   The scandal hit the headlines in 2007 when Clovis Whitfield, a London dealer, withdrew his paintings from a show at the Salander gallery because of its mounting legal woes.   The paintings included Caravaggios Apollo the Lute Player, which the two had hoped to sell for $100 million.   Mr Salander now faces 100 charges of grand larceny, securities fraud, scheme to defraud, forgery, criminal possession of a forged instrument, falsifying business records, and perjury. 
