It's not every day you get to attend an art auction and support a great cause at the same time. This is the 16th year Alliance for Living has hosted Art for Life, where artists donate their work for live and silent auctions. Proceeds from the event benefit the Alliance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the quality of life for people affected by HIV and AIDS living in New London County.   Featuring more than 150 artists, including painters, photographers, potters and more, the show is the main fundraiser of the year for Alliance for Living. This year's featured artist is Dennis Sirrine, a representational oil painter. His piece, Path to the Sea, is an oil on linen. It is one of my marsh themes, out in Barn Island in Stonington, but it could be anywhere along the shore, Sirrine said. I visit Barn Island often and paint that area a lot. It is very peaceful out there and one of my favorite areas to paint. Sirrine has his work displayed at the Courtyard Art Gallery on Water Street in Mystic. He lives in Mystic and has been involved in the Art for Life show for about four years. It is a good cause, because there is very little funding, especially with all the cutbacks, he said. It is important that somebody really cares about HIV and those living with it. People need to get out and support the cause. Sandy Brindamour, executive director of the Alliance for Living, said this event usually raises about $35,000, which is desperately needed, especially in this economy.   The event will be April 4 at the Mystic Arts Center, with a benefactor and private showing at 6 p.m. that includes a champagne reception and a chance to meet the artists. The auctions will be from 7-10 p.m. Tickets are $25 in advance, $35 at the door, $50 for patrons and $125 for benefactors. The average individual believes HIV/AIDS is a chronic disease, and yes people are living longer, but the disease is continuing to spread, Brindamour said. Alliance is serving 18 percent more individuals and their families this year than last year, and we are facing depleted funds from the state. In 2004-05, 46 percent of the budget was funded by the state department of health, and this year the state funded 28 percent, which may fall even further. We have had to be aggressive to continue to serve our members, Brindamour said. We appreciate the generosity and understanding from the community, and we are thrilled to be sponsored by the First United Methodist Church of Mystic and Lawrence &amp; Memorial Hospital. Other sponsors include The Day, Norwich Discount Oil, Bank of America, People's United Bank, Design Essence, and Old Mistick Village.   Brindamour said Alliance serves about 260 people, provides more than 1,000 meals a month and has increased housing from 15 to 44 apartments. They also are working with an outreach case manager to help bring in minority populations who have been reluctant to come in for help, often due to cultural barriers.   The honorary chairman of the event this year is Bill Stanley, vice president of development and community relations at Lawrence &amp; Memorial. Alliance For Living is creative at fundraising and I enjoy going to all of their events, Stanley said. The activities heighten awareness in the community. It is a worthwhile investment, especially in this economy when nonprofits have to work harder than ever to raise funds. For the last five years, the Art for Life event has had a featured artist, which Brindamour said has brought more attention to the event. Each of our featured artists has brought tremendous enthusiasm to this honor and all believe strongly in the need for a cure for AIDS, as they recognize it is still very much a disease that continues to kill and debilitate people of all races, gender, ages and backgrounds. 
