EAGAN, Minn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Securian announced the results of the Tooth Fairy PollSM, which reports a decrease in the current average gift U.S. children receive from the Tooth Fairy. The average of $1.88 per tooth is down from last years gift of $2.09  a 10 percent decrease.  It seems the Tooth Fairys not immune to the economy  but she still did much better than the stock market, explains Dani Fjelstad, chief financial officer for DeCare Dental, administrator for Securian Dental plans. Compared to the Tooth Fairys 10 percent decrease, the Dow Jones decreased 32 percent over the same measurement period and global indices performed even worse.  Tooth Fairy gift amounts range from a low of five cents to a high of $40 per tooth. The downward trend in Tooth Fairy gifts appears to be driven by a decrease in the number of five-dollar gifts and an increase in one dollar gifts.  THE SURVEY SAYS  According to the Tooth Fairy Poll, which goes out to a sampling of commercially insured members:  More than half of childrens first dental visits do not occur until age three or later. (The American Dental Association recommends that a child be seen by a dentist as soon as his or her first tooth erupts, but at least no later than the first birthday.) Approximately 90 percent of parents surveyed state their children receive a dental exam every six months. Nearly 86 percent of parents report that their children brush their teeth in the morning, and 94 percent of children brush at night, while only 2.5 percent brush at noon. The numbers suggest children are consuming less sugary drinks and/or treats. Parents surveyed indicated their children consume an average of one to two sugar drinks and/or treats per day. Last years poll indicated that more than one-third of children were consuming three or more sugar drinks and/or treats per day. About Securian Dental  Securian Dental plans (www.securiandental.com), available nationwide, are underwritten by Securian Life Insurance Company and administered by DeCare Dental Health International LLC. In California, Securian Dental is underwritten by Securian Life Insurance Company, offered through DeCare Dental Insurance Services, LLC and administered by DDHI Administrators LLC. Securian Dental is offered under policy form series 03-30612 or a state variation thereof.  About DeCare Dental  With a 40-year track record of proven success, DeCare Dental is a leading dental benefits management group that oversees more than $1 billion in managed revenues through ten of the nations leading dental insurance brands. DeCare Dental serves 4 million individuals in 22,000 employer groups including Fortune 500 corporations, small businesses, non-profits and government entities in the United States and overseas. For more information, visit www.decare.com.
