The high price of panic Dumping stocks now locks in losses and risks missing the market's best days By Jonathan Burton, MarketWatch Last Update: 12:01 AM ET Nov 3, 2008 SAN FRANCISCO (Menafn - MarketWatch) -- If you didn't see the market's meltdown coming, you have plenty of company. If you're selling now, it's probably too late. It's not that stocks can't fall further. You can bet that patience and resolve will be tested time and again before this bear goes into hibernation. We haven't seen the complete capitulation and outright despondency that historically marks a bottom. Not yet. Main Street consumer confidence is at a 40-year low, but Wall Street still has too many optimists. A return to early October's dramatic lows may change their minds. See related story. But for a longer-term, retirement-focused shareholder -- and that's most of us -- selling stocks just because they could fall further not only locks in losses, but also makes it less likely that you'll participate in powerful market rallies. Missing those days can be hazardous to your wealth. "A lot of the recovery tends to occur in the first few months, and if you wait until the all-clear sign to get back in, you'll have missed out on a lot of the gain," said Mark Riepe, head of the Schwab Center for Financial Research. Look at what would have happened if you'd been out of U.S. stocks on the best trading days between January 1998 and December 2007. The Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 Index SPX returned 5.9% annualized over that time, but had you been sidelined for the decade's 10 biggest days, the yearly gain would have been just 1.1%, a Schwab study shows. Miss the top 20 days and you'd have suffered a negative 2.6% miss the top 40 days and you'd have lost 8.4% annually. Put another way, staying invested through thick and thin would have beaten a poor market-timing effort by more than 14 percentage points a year. Moreover, market recoveries typically start strong. The average return for stocks in the 12 months following the end of a bear market is 45%, but if you sat out the first six months of the rally, that 12-month return becomes just 12%, according to Schwab. "Trades in reaction to fear and panic are almost always bad trades," said Kristi Mitchem, a managing director at Barclays Global Investors. "It's not a decision you should enter into without making sure that's really where you want to go," she added. "Make that shift very intentionally, not with the idea that you're trading out of equities to get back in when the market recovers. The likelihood is that you'll miss that recovery." Bottom fishing Of course, most of us understand that being out of the market forfeits potential gains. But with trading volatility in the stratosphere and stock prices in a downward trend, who's brave enough to catch a falling knife? We can't all be Warren Buffet. Or can we? Much has been made of Buffett and other celebrated value-minded investors going bargain hunting. Yet Buffett's famous admonition: "Be fearful when others are greedy and greedy when others are fearful" is easier said than done -- and for Buffett, at least, probably easier done as well. Buffett was scorned by some for a New York Times editorial on Oct. 17 that encouraged investors to buy U.S. stocks. The criticism recalled the ridicule he received for a Fortune Magazine article in late 1999 warning investors to lower their expectations and to beware of a technology-stock bubble. And let's not forget Buffett's barbed attack on futures and other speculative derivatives in 2003 as "financial weapons of mass destruction." You could lose a lot of money ignoring Buffett. Instead, take a page from him about what to buy and sell -- not when. The key point of the Times article is that this sage investor isn't turning away from Treasury bonds because the stars are aligned for stocks. He's buying because the solid companies on his wish-list are being tossed out with the junk. "Investors are right to be wary of highly leveraged entities or businesses in weak competitive positions," Buffet wrote. "But fears regarding the long-term prosperity of the nation's many sound companies make no sense. These businesses will indeed suffer earnings hiccups, as they always have. But most major companies will be setting new profit records 5, 10 and 20 years from now." What to do If you must trade, don't trade out -- trade up. In an increasingly Darwinian market such as this, the fittest companies in defensive industries will survive in stronger shape. Think like Buffett and fill your portfolio with cash-rich, well-run companies that stand to gain market share in both good times and bad. And if the stock pays a dividend close to the S&amp;amp;P 500's roughly 3% yield, you're getting paid nicely for your patience. See related story. Like Buffett, don't be afraid of being too early to the sale. Jeremy Grantham, chairman of GMO, the highly regarded Boston-based manager of mutual funds and hedge funds, is edging into U.S and international blue-chip stocks. He's buying even though he believes prices have further to fall, predicting that the S&amp;amp;P 500 will bottom in the 600 to 800 range within two years. (The index closed Friday at 969.) "For an unparalleled 20 years, global equities, especially U.S. equities, have been overpriced. Now, finally, they are cheap and likely to get cheaper," Grantham wrote in his most recent quarterly letter to clients. He added: "We have made our choice: hesitant and careful buying at these prices and lower." Three sectors that Standard &amp;amp; Poor's recommends in this climate are health care, consumer staples and utilities. "Staples and health care both tend to hold up relatively well because you have people saying 'I'm not I want to stick with tried and true dividend-paying stocks where the earnings transparency is very great,'" said Sam Stovall, S&amp;amp;P's chief investment strategist. Richard Bernstein, Merrill Lynch's chief investment strategist, shares that view. "New themes are emerging," he wrote in a recent note to clients. "These themes are higher quality, less credit-sensitive themes such as developed markets, defensive sectors, and very high quality bonds." See related story. Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at money manager Johnson Illington Advisors LLC in Albany, N.Y., turned cautious on stocks a year ago. Nowadays his clients are hunkered down in those same protective sectors: health care, consumer staples and utilities. "I'm avoiding consumer cyclicals, financials, industrials, telecommunications, and a little less so in technology. I have something in all of these sectors, but not much," he said. Consumer-goods stocks that Johnson owns include Colgate Palmolive Co. CL and PepsiCo Inc. PEP, while St. Jude Medical Inc. STJ and Abbott Laboratories ABT are among his health care holdings. For utilities, Johnson uses an exchange-traded fund, Utilities Select Sector Spider XLU. Reduce risk Given the weakening economy and the market's sharp volatility, it's also a good idea to trim areas of a portfolio that are over-concentrated and exposed to unnecessary risk. Start with company stock. Selling is tough to do when your employer's shares are down, said Mitchem, the Barclays executive. But stock prices are lower across the board, she points out. "Sell out of your company stock and buy a diversified portfolio," she suggested. "Then you're not going to have a single stock-specific risk that is also tied to your employment." Investors in target-date and other retirement-pegged mutual-funds should also reassess their tolerance for stocks, Mitchem said. For instance, if you're invested in a fund for your planned retirement in 2025, but can't stomach the portfolio's hefty allocation to stocks, shift some or all of the money to a more conservative, bond-oriented fund aimed at those who expect to retire in 2010. "Take a little bit of risk off the table," Mitchem said. "That's not a it's a strategic reallocation." #article_box #at_narrow_wrapper #at_narrow_inner .at_link #at_narrow_inner A E-Mail Article Printer-Friendly Translate addthis_pub addthis_logo //addthis_logo_background //addthis_logo_color addthis_brand //addthis_options 'favorites, email, digg, delicious, myspace, facebook, google, live, Share Article Text Size google_ad_client google_ad_width google_ad_height google_ad_format google_ad_type google_ad_channel google_color_border google_color_bg google_color_link google_color_url google_color_text Most popular stories ME aviation market to rise to $1 billion by 2012 Saudi Water and Electricity Company wins award Oman's IT market to grow 8% UAE advertising spending increases by 47% Oman receives first gas from Dolphin Energy Limited S&amp;amp;P downgrades 6 GCC banks (typeof sawsanantondababneh news research economy business finance middle east UAE Saudi arab jordan amman dubai profits libor interest currency dollar euro oil stocks trade Terms of Service Privacy Policy Contact Us Advertise&amp;amp;nbsp About MENAFN Career Opportunities Feedback Copyright 2000 All Rights Reserved. for j j++) x Close Don't show again dispAdvImg() hideAdvImg() if closeAdvimg() dontShowAdvimg() AdvimgSetCookie( name, value, expires, path, domain, secure ) expires_date new Date( today.getTime() + (expires) name + +escape( value ) + ( ( expires ) ? + expires_date.toGMTString() : "" ) + ( ( path ) ? + path : "" ) + ( ( domain ) ? + domain : "" ) + ( ( secure ) ? ";secure" : "" AdvimgGetCookie( name ) ( start -1 ) return end ";", len ( end -1 ) end return unescape( len, end )
