THE Henderson Preference and Bond Fund celebrated a milestone in October but market conditions put a serious dampener on any celebrations. The 609.2 million fund was launched 30 years ago last month, and John Pattullo has been at the helm for the past seven.  The fund's objective is to provide a return by investing primarily in sterling-denominated preference shares, government securities, corporate bonds, eurobonds and other bonds.   It's a traditional income fund with the age of the average investor around 68, said Pattullo, who was an analyst on the fund prior to becoming a manager. 'The fund has a fairly consistent income stream while preserving capital throughout the economic cycle.'It is a relatively low-risk fund, typically investing in companies with a Standard &amp;amp; Poor's AAA rating (the highest the ratings agency awards) and identifying those companies least likely to default. In credit risk terms, the fund goes down to companies with a rating of BB or B (depending on the ratings agency).  The lower-risk investment-grade bonds account for almost 45 per cent of the fund's portfolio, with high yield (21 per cent), leveraged buyout loans, preference shares (8 per cent) and cash among other assets.   The portfolio includes a chunk of investment-grade financial bonds, with Barclays and HSBC the biggest overall holdings (as of 5 November).'We are not that negative on banks because there is some reasonable value, but it could take some time to come through. It will remain extremely volatile for some time but there is value there.'The fund has a core of yielding assets to provide the income, uses credit derivatives to hedge out negativity and buys gilt futures as an overlay, said Pattullo.  It's a tough time for most funds, but particularly those focusing on corporate debt, with corporate bonds enduring their worst month ever in September'It is tricky for corporate bond managers at this time in the cycle because, although income is still paid, capital is tough,' said Pattullo.But some sectors still offer opportunities, said Pattullo.'There is still good value in oil, telecoms and pharmaceuticals.'He is also relatively optimistic regarding the general outlook for the next couple of years.   Pattullo runs the fund alongside Jenna Barnard, with whom he was worked for five years. The initial charge on the fund, which is available as an Isa, is 4 per cent, with an annual management charge of 1.25 per cent.  For more information call 0207 638 5757.
