Koontz, co-manager of the Loomis Sayles Value Fund (LSGIX:LSGIXNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , expects the downturn to last awhile and has focused on companies with a strong financial backbone. 'Companies need enough cash to get through the next 18 months,' Koontz said. 'The economic numbers are likely to be pretty bad for the several quarters.' Things are bad enough already. Like every mutual fund, Loomis Sayles Value has been walloped during the 2008 market meltdown in which the value of stocks has plunged more steeply than at any time since the Great Depression. The fund was down 45.2% in the 12 months through Nov. 20, according to fund-tracker Lipper Inc. By comparison, its average large-cap value rival fell 47.8%. For the most part, the market beatdown hasn't prompted Koontz to alter his focus. His value fund, like many others, puts great weight on cash flow and cash reserves. The one thing he pays even greater attention to now is debt. It's hard for companies to obtain financing at a reasonable cost, he noted, because of the ongoing global financial panic. 'Can they self-finance?' he asked. Hewlett Packard Among some of Koontz's top holdings are companies that offer a broad array of products in markets around the world. High-tech bellwether Hewlett Packard Co (HPQ:HPQNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) is one example. The maker of computer, printing and imaging products reported surprisingly strong quarterly results this week, bolstered by its diverse businesses and ongoing cost-cutting. 'It was a comfort to us, 'Koontz said. 'It confirmed our belief that this is a stock that can muscle through this period. ' Although H-P shares are off 35% from their 52-week high, that's much less of a drop compared to other stocks. What's more, Koontz said, the company has plenty of additional room to reduce costs, with much of the savings flowing directly to the bottom line. In trading Friday, shares of Hewlett-Packard surged 8.8% to $34.64. Travelers Cos. Another stock Koontz believes could perform well in a downturn is Travelers Cos. Inc. While many investors might shy away from insurance stocks because of the disaster at giant AIG, Koontz said Travelers is 'taking advantage of AIG's issues to gain market share.' Travelers (TRV:TRVNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) has more than $2 billion in excess liquidity, Koontz also pointed out, and a modest amount of debt. 'Looking at its underlying business, the fundamentals are pretty darned good,' he said.  WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -- The bear market has been a steel trap for investors, but mutual-fund managers such as Warren Koontz are beating the bushes for long-term values once the economy recovers.
