Asian stock markets were down Monday amid uncertainty for the world economy despite a US government rescue pledge for global banking giant Citigroup.  Investors had been cautious over the future of the ailing bank, which last week saw its share price halved as it struggles to cope in the world economic downturn.  The US Federal Reserve, Treasury Department and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said they would protect the bank against 'unusually large losses' and give it 20 billion dollars from a massive rescue package.  Markets were sluggish and traders remained jittery even after the bailout.  Hong Kong was 1.19 percent lower in the afternoon, while Seoul closed 3.3 percent down, Singapore dropped two percent and Taipei 0.25 percent.  Shanghai was 2.60 percent lower, although Sydney recovered early losses to finish the day 0.3 percent up. Tokyo was closed for a public holiday.  The stumbles followed a 6.54 percent surge on Wall Street.  'There's still quite a bit of confusion and fear in the market,' which is contributing to volatility, said Thomas Lam, senior treasury economist with United Overseas Bank Group.  The three US agencies said they will provide Citigroup 'protection against the possibility of unusually large losses on an asset pool of approximately 306 billion dollars of loans and securities backed by residential and commercial real estate and other such assets, which will remain on Citigroup's balance sheet.'  In addition, the Treasury Department will invest 20 billion dollars in the bank from the 700-billion-dollar package approved by Congress earlier this year, officials said.  Citigroup agreed to comply with unspecified 'enhanced executive compensation restrictions' and implement the FDIC's mortgage modification programme.  The deal had been expected on Wall Street on Friday when Citigroup shares closed at 3.77 dollars, their lowest level in years.  Last Monday, the bank announced it was slashing a near-record 50,000 jobs. At its peak last year, it employed 375,000 people.  Last month, Citi reported a third-quarter loss of 2.8 billion dollars, its fourth straight quarter in the red.  Operating in more than 100 countries and with more than two trillion dollars in assets, 'Citigroup is widely viewed, both in Washington and on Wall Street, as too big to be allowed to fail,' The New York Times reported.  The US Treasury Department used similar justification when it bailed out insurance giant American International Group Inc (AIG) in September.  Citigroup has lost more than 70 percent of its stock price since the start of the year, hit by hefty writeoffs linked to the US subprime mortgage crisis.  Leaders of the 21-nation Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation ( APEC ), making up half the global economy, called for reform of the financial regulatory framework and better corporate governance after a weekend summit.  'We will act quickly and decisively to address the impending global economic slowdown,' the APEC leaders, including US President George W. Bush and Japanese PM Taro Aso, declared after talks in Peru.  The group also voiced hope that the global financial crisis, the worst since the 1930s, would be over within 18 months.  Meanwhile, US president-elect Barack Obama Saturday announced plans to create 2.5 million new jobs in a bid to shore up the economy before his inauguration.  The Washington Post reported Monday that Obama and his Democratic allies in Congress are preparing plans for a second massive economic stimulus programme that could total as much as 700 billion dollars over the next two years.  In Britain finance minister Alistair Darling was expected in a pre-Budget report to announce a public spending boost as well as help for small businesses and some tax cuts.  But Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel, amid the country's first recession in five years, warned in the Welt am Sonntag newspaper Sunday that 2009 will be 'a year of bad news' for the economy.  
