What now? As our front cover this month reflects, this is a question that has been pinging around Reinsurance Towers as the financial carnage continues to pile up across the world's economies. Is the investment community already lying, bloodied and beaten at the bottom of the basement, or has it only been kicked halfway down the stairs?  In uncertain times, of course, it can be reassuring to take stock of the certainties. Well, sometimes.  One thing's for sure: the future financial landscape will certainly be different. Regulation will become more prescriptive, especially as the planned Solvency II model being driven through the European Union will now have to prove it will be fit for purpose in the new world. Bermuda is in fact already upping its regulatory game and must hope it has not jumped the gun.  Technical underwriting must also, finally, come to the fore as investment returns evaporate (again). And maybe this time the shift will last longer than the downturn. Some are saying that consumer confidence will return in 2010. Some say even longer than that. The truth? No-one really knows. That's why fear is reigning at the moment and greed is lying cowering in a corner.  Rates for (re)insurance will harden (eventually), with some predicting jumps in pricing across the board. We've noticed that insurers and brokers alike are beginning to look into their casualty offering with an eye on the financial markets. If you're a good casualty reinsurance broker, then it might be a good time to put out the CV.  This final point is a key one - and the very reason that Monte Carlo, Baden Baden and PCI in the US all exist - is that the (re)insurance market has an amazing ability to talk a good game. Will reinsurers, despite everything, continue to talk up a hard market and then drop their trousers at the nearest sign of losing the business? With certain rates hardening you would hope not - but history has a tendency to repeat itself.  So, back to the certainties. Some reinsurers will inevitably find themselves squeezed as their asset bases dwindle, in turn creating opportunities for more consolidation - activity that will also create new opportunities for smaller players who can be more fleet of foot.  Each company's experience over the next 12 to 18 months is going to be different and how they react will equally be driven by their own position - but to repeat the well worn adage, problems are opportunities, in this case it will be an opportunity for some players to re-engineer their businesses altogether.  And, if you're worried about your debts, dear (re)insurance professional, then spare a minute for AIG. It's got a $123bn loan to pay back ...  Comment on this story (registered users only)  There arent any comments for this article yet  Login to add a comment  
