          MBS (pure form) were not created after the repeal of GS. MBS in the US started closer to when Fannie Mae was created in the 1930s at the same time GS was put in place. MBS can work just fine. You can also mess things up if you get the balance wrong. The same for banking in general. Loan defaults are part of normal banking. It is how you mange the defaults and the volume at any one time. Similar to why bank runs take place. It is about trust with pooled assets.   Forgive my ignorance of the subtleties of US banking, but AIUI you couldn&amp;#039;t have done  commercial  real-world MBS&amp;#039;s without chipping away at G-S, at least not within a single company.  As you say, that trust thing is vital - Fannie/Freddie had trust because they were SIVs effectively guaranteed by . gov.us , commercial MBS&amp;#039;s needed AIG insurance to generate that same level of &amp;amp;quot;trust with pooled assets&amp;amp;quot; since realistically they were all going to be shoved into some kind of SIV. And obviously the same applies in spades to the derivatives like CDS&amp;#039;s.  Just empirically, the timing suggests a link between the first chipping away at G-S in the late 80s and the first SIVs, and the flood that came soon after it was fully done away with (plus CFMA, plus Basel II etc etc)    It would be wrong to think GS was the problem or that the repeal was the problem. German and Swiss bank regulations work even without GS.   As do banks slightly closer to home - you&amp;#039;re not talking to a US-centric worldview here. :-) The difference of course as you suggest is that the Europeans have evolved appropriate regulation to cope with universal banking.  The US were right to remove 60% of their banking rules - but didn&amp;#039;t realise that at the same time they needed to introduce a different 10% of new regulations.    I guess that was a difficult idea to take on for people steeped in US culture - a lesson to learn for the future perhaps? Not repealing G-S at all would possibly have been better than repealing but not introducing any new regulations appropriate to universal banking.  This little clip of Byron Dorgan from 1999 is enjoyable :  http://americannewsproject.com/node/135  - the relevant bit is the first 90 seconds or so.                  
