 I&amp;#039;ve worked as an office manager in a life insurance brokerage for 5 years.   We do a very small amount of business with AIG.  If it is something I know about, it is this. I tried to explain who and what the trips were for over the last couple days and people just don&amp;#039;t want to hear the truth.   One last time:  The AIG trip was for SELF-EMPLOYED guys making around 50k a year on the extremely high side ( a very small percent) would be about 100,000 a year. No benefits since they are SELF-EMPLOYED.  The trip was planned a couple years in advance and the agents worked over a 18 month period to earn the trip which is part of their commissions agreement.  They even pay taxes on the trip as it is 1099ed.   The trips are generally around 2 thousand in value. Were there execs there also...yes, of course. But they were small in number.  The trip is an incentive for the independent agents and a time for recognition and networking.  The trip was also for the American General Life subsidiary.  This subsidiary is profitable and has nothing to do with the parts of AIG that got into financial trouble.  The Life insurance side is now taking a massive hit and the ones in the most trouble are the independent agents who were selling mostly their products (like the ones on the trip).    If the people  want to see these self employed guys suffering then those people are in luck.  They already are.  Sales this year has been way down.   Frankly I am even concerned about my job.  Fortunately the company we write most still has a very good reputation (unlike AIG who&amp;#039;s agents are now scrambling to find other companies without a tainted name).  But people are nervous.   Do I think the Execs should be in jail for the bonuses they took?....YES. Do I think they should pay it all back to the company?.... YES Do I think they are greedy bastard who should be sent to a desert island to rot?  .....YES  I ask you this:  Are you willing to fork over 2 grand of your salary to make-a-wish today?    I&amp;#039;m only responding because it&amp;#039;s you. I gave up trying to educate people yesterday.   None of it makes a damn bit of difference in my life.  Admin staff don&amp;#039;t go to these sort of things.  I just hate seeing people riled up over misinformation.    
