 Michael Hussey is confident new boy Brett Geeves can make the most of the opportunity presented to him in the upcoming Commonwealth Bank Series against Bangladesh in Darwin.Geeves has been called into the Australian squad for Brett Lee, who has taken time off to deal with issues in his personal life. Hussey said that while he would love to have Lee in the team, his absence gives Geeves an opportunity to show what he can do.'It's great for Brett Geeves. He's really performed well for Tasmania in the past couple of years, particularly in one-day cricket. He really deserves his chance. I don't know him that well, so I'm looking forward to that,' Hussey said.Hussey said Geeves had impressed him when the two had played against each other at state level and he expected the big Tasmanian to do well if he is given a chance in the three-match series which starts on Saturday August 30.'He's a very aggressive bowler, strong bustling bowler. He can swing the new ball and get the old ball to reverse a little bit. Generally, he hits the pitch very hard. He's very disciplined and he's also a very handy lower-order hitter as well. He's got some good assets to bring to our team,' Hussey said.Australia has played without Lee in key matches before, including the 2007 World Cup which the speedster missed with an ankle injury.'We played the whole World Cup without Brett and while that was a big loss, but it gave Shaun Tait an opportunity to stamp his name on the world scene. Not having Brett there does give someone else an opportunity to really put their hand up and show that they can perform at the highest level. Having said that, Brett's our spearhead and we want him back as quickly as possibly,' he said.Tait had been tagged as Lee's heir apparent before taking time off cricket during last summer. Hussey said the team had been keeping in touch with the Redbacks speed machine and that he was well on the comeback trail.'Tait's in good spirits. I believe he's been training with the South Australian team, and again we're hoping he can come back as quickly as possible,' he said.Meanwhile, Hussey warned that despite the fact Australia is ranked as world No.1 in ODIs and Bangladesh No.9, it will be a tough series.'This Bangladesh series is going to be a little bit rusty, we've had a little bit of time off. It's going to be very important that we use this Bangladesh series very well,' he said.'They've really improved a lot. They've got an Australian coach in Jamie Siddons. So they will know us pretty well. The guys are going to be very keen. We haven't played for a while now. It's been a good break since the West Indies. All the guys are jumping out of their skin and can't wait to get stuck into it.'
