DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Oct. 27, 2008 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NasdaqGS:NDAQ - News) announced today that it will host its first Middle East Investor Conference in Dubai on November 20, 2008. The event, to be held jointly with the Dubai International Financial Exchange (DIFX), will provide the Middle Eastern investor community with the opportunity to meet with and learn more about the strategies of leading listed companies, and provide companies with new exposure to the Gulf market. The conference will also feature a discussion of the DIFX's new equity derivatives initiative and the regional potential for exchange traded funds.   In addition to the conference discussion panels and high-level networking opportunities, Gulf investors will be offered access to the senior management of many leading companies in the form of private one-on-one meetings.The day will conclude with an Opening Bell Ceremony for The NASDAQ Stock Market. It marks the first time a global exchange has opened its market remotely from Dubai. The Bell Ceremony will take place at the Dubai International Financial Centre and will be broadcast live in New York's Times Square and around the globe.Commenting on the event, Bruce Aust, SVP NASDAQ OMX Corporate Client Group said, ''In today's environment there is nothing better than hearing directly from senior executives about how their companies are navigating the turbulent economic conditions. This event will help stock pickers identify new investment ideas and will also introduce asset allocators to the DIFX's exciting plans for derivatives in the Gulf.''Details on how to register and to receive further information can be found at: http://dubai.nasdaqinvestorprogram.com/Presentations will be made by the senior management of the following 31 companies, from across the UAE, U.S., China, India, Latin America, Australia, Sweden, Denmark and South Africa:ETFs: db x-tracker Deutsche Bank Exchange Traded Funds, ETF Securities, iShares Barclays Global Investors.Derivatives: Arqaam Capital Limited, Susquehanna International Group LLP.NASDAQ OMX has been hosting investor programs in Europe and Asia for over 13 years and they have grown to become the largest institutional investor programs for U.S. equities in Europe. In 2008 alone the NASDAQ OMX international investor programs will have hosted over 130 NASDAQ-listed companies. NASDAQ OMX is a strategic shareholder and the principal commercial partner of Dubai International Financial Exchange.ABOUT NASDAQ OMX GROUPThe NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents with over 3,900 listed companies. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from Nasdaq OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit http://www.nasdaqomx.com.About DIFXThe DIFX is the international financial exchange serving the region between Western Europe and East Asia. It welcomes regional as well as global issuers that seek regional and international investment. The exchange currently lists shares, structured products, Sukuk (Islamic bonds) and conventional bonds and is planning to list equity derivatives later in 2008.The majority shareholder of the DIFX is Borse Dubai with a two-thirds stake. NASDAQ OMX Group owns one third of the shares. The regulator of the DIFX is the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA). The DIFX is located in the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC). For more information, visit http://www.difx.aeCautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThe matters described herein contain forward-looking statements that are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about NASDAQ OMX's products and offerings. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that the FSA will give the NASDAQ OMX applicant the authorization and permissions which it seeks.NDAQF
