ADVISORY, Oct. 27, 2008 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --What: Jim Wiandt, Editor of Journal of Indexes, will preside over the Closing Bell. Joining him will be John Bogle, Founder of Vanguard Group and members of the JOI Editorial Board: David Blitzer, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Indexing Committees Lisa Dallmer, NYSE Euronext Gary Gastineau, ETF Consultants LLC Joanne Hill, Goldman Sachs John Jacobs, NASDAQ OMX Global Financial Products Lee Kranefuss, iShares, Barclays Global Investors Kathleen Moriarty, Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP Don Phillips, Morningstar John Prestbo, Dow Jones Indexes James Ross, State Street Global Advisors Gus Sauter, Vanguard Group Steven Schoenfeld, Northern Trust Global Investments Cliff Weber, NYSE Alternext U.S. ETF Marketplace Together with: Matt Hougan, ETFR Jason Zweig, Wall Street Journal Where: NASDAQ MarketSite - 4 Times Square - 43rd &amp;amp; Broadway - Broadcast Studio When: Tuesday, October 28, 2008 at 3:45 - 4:00 p.m. ET Contact: NASDAQ MarketSite: Robert Madden (646) 441-5045 Robert.Madden@NASDAQOMX.com Feed Information:The Closing Bell is available from 3:50 p.m. to 4:05 p.m. on AMC-3/C-3 (ul 5985V; dl 3760H) The feed can also be found on Ascent fiber 1623. If you have any questions, please contact Robert Madden at (646) 441-5045.Radio Feed:An audio transmission of the Closing Bell is also available from 3:50 p.m. to 4:05 p.m. on uplink IA6 C band / transponder 24, downlink frequency 4180 horizontal. The feed can be found on Ascent fiber 1623 as well.Webcast:A live Webcast of the NASDAQ Closing Bell will be available at: http://www.nasdaq.com/about/marketsitetowervideo.asxPhotos:To obtain a hi-resolution photograph of the Market Close, please go to http://www.nasdaq.com/reference/marketsite_events.stm and click on the market close of your choice.About Journal of Indexes:The Journal of Indexes serves as the central forum for the informed debate of index issues. The publication includes fully reviewed articles by authors at the forefront of index research, the latest industry news, and comprehensive index-related data. In addition to the printed publication, content is also available at http://www.indexuniverse.com/publications/journalofindexes. The Journal is a cooperative effort that is supported by sponsorship and editorial content from across the index industry. It is a highly targeted publication with a 100% qualified readership of financial advisors and plan sponsors. Originally conceived as Indexes: The Journal of Index Issues by John Prestbo of Dow Jones, JOI is a respected and closely followed publication for the discussion of index issues. Serving an informed and active readership, the Journal of Indexes publishes a continuing array of outstanding articles by indexing experts from around the world, fostering debates that help bring quality to index products and index products to quality readership.About NASDAQ OMX Global Financial ProductsNASDAQ OMX Global Financial Products (GFP) is engaged in the design, development, calculation, licensing, and marketing of NASDAQ OMX indexes. GFP specializes in the development of indexes focusing on NASDAQ OMX's brand themes of innovation, technology, growth, and globalization. GFP also provides custom index services and design solutions as a third-party provider to selected financial organizations. For more information about NASDAQ OMX indexes, visit http://www.nasdaq.com/indexes.  About NASDAQ OMX:The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, and with over 3,900 companies, it is number one in worldwide listings among major markets. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 60 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit http://www.nasdaqomx.com/.
