 By Stefanos EvripidouSPREADING THE risk is more important than getting a high interest on your savings, warned one financial adviser yesterday, as the domino effect of the credit crunch threatened to sink banking institutions across America and Europe. The Cyprus partner of Blevins Franks financial advisors, Lou Cunningham, yesterday said people needed to diversify risk, particularly expats who have savings in both local and foreign banks. The financial crisis currently dominating the headlines has already seen the effective nationalisation of the biggest insurance company in the world, AIG, in America, as well as a $700 billion bailout proposal by US President George Bush rejected by Congress. In the UK, the government stepped in last year to save Northern Rock from going under and this week nationalised Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley. Commercial banks are holding on to their cash tightly, putting a freeze on short-term interbank lending. At the same time, European and Asian central banks have been pumping more and more cash into money markets rocked by the crisis. So far, the direct impact on Cyprus seems to be minimal, as the Central Bank has kept a tight check on the size of housing loans compared to property value. At first glance, it appears investment in high risk, high return derivatives like those that brought major powerhouses AIG and Lehman Brothers to their knees, has been nominal. The Labour Ministry is currently investigating stockbrokers to see how much of these unsafe "subprime" mortgages have been bought by Cyprus-based investors. Meanwhile, for Cyprus residents with savings in British banks and building societies, the question on everyone's minds is: "Are my savings secure?" "Those with accounts with any major banks or building societies are very worried. A lot of people are asking us if their deposits are safe?" said Cunningham. The financial advisor said the answer depended on the jurisdiction that your specific banking institution is in. For instance, the UK government offers Depositor Compensation Schemes of up to 35,000 for banks and building societies in the UK. However, a lot of expats have money in offshore jurisdictions like the Isle of Man, Guernsey and Jersey where there is much less protection. "In Northern Rock's case, the government didn't apply government compensation because they stepped in to protect all the investors. The hope is that with the big banks, the government will step in," he said. Asked about the impact of the rejected $700 billion bail out, Cunningham said: "The UK is clearly going to be affected by what's happened in the US because a lot of UK banks got exposure via the packages and instruments that started the crisis." Another problem is the high risks taken by banks in the US, UK and parts of continental Europe where institutions were loaning in excess of the value of the property. "Banks were lending up to 125 per cent of the property value. Now, house prices are falling, costs like fuel have gone up, mortgage payments are doubling, there is inflation and the money is getting very tight. The banks are left with the option of repossession, but the value of the property is lower than the mortgage," said the Blevins Franks advisor. Cunningham noted that state and company pensions were relatively safe from the crisis. The danger lay where a large pool of money has been invested in one bank only. "You need to diversify savings. Equities, fixed interest bonds and gilts are not under attack. The credit crunch is attacking banks and buildings societies. "The first priority is to protect your money, then think about which institution has the best rate of interest. You need to know what protected levels exist in each jurisdiction and don't exceed them," he said. According to the Central Bank website, deposits in Cyprus are protected up to 90 per cent for the first &amp;amp;#8364;20,000. "This is per depositor so if have a joint bank account, each of you are covered by this protection," said Cunningham. The root of the credit crunch was banks and building societies overextending themselves in mortgage lending, said the financial advisor. However, the Central Bank's policy on housing loan requirements has ensured that the value of property will always exceed the value of the mortgage, he noted. ECONOMIST Costas Apostolides said the impact on the Cyprus financial market would depend on how much investors were enticed by the high-risk, high-return derivatives lapped up by the US and UK institutions. In a nutshell, the subprime crisis started when certain groups offered 100 per cent housing loans to people not normally eligible, like low-income groups and even the unemployed. To offset the risk, the lenders charged a higher than average interest rate on the loan, making it one of high-return. These mortgages were then sold on to banking institutions as attractive high-return instruments, even though the same banks would never have approved the initial loans to high-risk borrowers. "I call this the nut-case scenario," said Apostolides. These derivatives were doubly attractive because not only were they tied to physical assets, like a house, but they were also guaranteed by failsafe powerhouses like AIG, which got a cut of every derivative sold, he explained. "AIG never realised that the risk they were taking on was bigger than their total value. Young bright kids coming out of the best colleges in the world tried to make a buck on these high-return derivatives. They were too young to remember 1991 when the same thing happened in the UK, leaving many on the streets," said the economist. With central banks in Europe and American concerned about inflation, interest rates kept rising and more and more people defaulted on their mortgage payments, feeding the growing subprime crisis. Now that banks have stopped lending to each other, the credit crunch is being felt more and more. Apostolides said that there did not appear to be any major exposure for pension funds in Cyprus, but called on the Labour Ministry to widen their investigation beyond the four major banking institutions in the US. "It's too narrow. We should be looking where potential threats could be, not just what we know," he said. 
