ADVISORY, Oct. 23, 2008 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --WHAT: NASDAQ OMX Global Financial Product and the Journal of Indexes will host a media event involving some of the most renowned experts in the world of indexing. A round-table discussion and luncheon will be held from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. ET Onsite media interviews will be available by appointment only from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Topics will include: * Traditional Versus Niche Indexing * Benchmarking Frontier Markets, Commodities, Real Estate * How ETFs and Indexes Have Been Stress-Tested Recently * Back to Basics in Indexing WHO: David Blitzer, Managing Director and Chairman, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Indexing Committees John Bogle, Founder, Vanguard Group Lisa Dallmer, Vice President, Exchange Traded Funds, NYSE Euronext Gary Gastineau, Principal, ETF Consultants LLC Joanne Hill, Managing Director, Goldman Sachs Matt Hougan, Editor, ETFR John Jacobs, Executive Vice President, NASDAQ OMX Global Financial Products Lee Kranefuss, Global Chief Executive Officer of iShares, Barclays Global Investors Kathleen Moriarty, Partner, Financial Services Practice - Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP Don Phillips, Managing Director, Corporate Strategy, Research, and Communications - Morningstar John Prestbo, Executive Director - Dow Jones Indexes James Ross, Senior Managing Director - State Street Global Advisors Gus Sauter, Managing Director, Vanguard Group Steven Schoenfeld - Chief Investment Strategists, Northern Trust Global Investments Cliff Weber, Senior Vice President, NYSE Alternext U.S. ETF Marketplace Jim Wiandt, Editor, Journal of Indexes Jason Zweig, Columnist, Wall Street Journal WHEN: Tuesday, October 28, 2008 11:30 a.m. - 1:30 p.m. ET Lunch will be served WHERE: NASDAQ MarketSite 4 Times Square 43rd and Broadway (entrance on Broadway) New York, NY 10036 BROADCAST MEDIA RESERVATIONS: Silvia Davi +1.646.441.5014 Silvia.Davi@NASDAQOMX.com Robert Madden +1.646.441.5045 Robert.Madden@NASDAQOMX.com PRINT MEDIA RESERVATIONS: Wayne Lee +1.301.978.4875 Wayne.D.Lee@NASDAQOMX.com About the Journal of Indexes:The Journal of Indexes serves as the central forum for the informed debate of index issues. The publication includes fully reviewed articles by authors at the forefront of index research, the latest industry news, and comprehensive index-related data. In addition to the printed publication, content is also available at http://www.indexuniverse.com/publications/journalofindexes. The Journal is a cooperative effort that is supported by sponsorship and editorial content from across the index industry. It is a highly targeted publication with a 100% qualified readership of financial advisors and plan sponsors. Originally conceived as Indexes: The Journal of Index Issues by John Prestbo of Dow Jones, JOI is a respected and closely followed publication for the discussion of index issues. Serving an informed and active readership, the Journal of Indexes publishes a continuing array of outstanding articles by indexing experts from around the world, fostering debates that help bring quality to index products and index products to quality readership.About NASDAQ OMX Global Financial Products:NASDAQ OMX Global Financial Products (GFP) is engaged in the design, development, calculation, licensing, and marketing of NASDAQ OMX indexes. GFP specializes in the development of indexes focusing on NASDAQ OMX's brand themes of innovation, technology, growth, and globalization. GFP also provides custom index services and design solutions as a third-party provider to selected financial organizations. For more information about NASDAQ OMX indexes, visit http://www.nasdaq.com/indexes.  About NASDAQ OMX Group:The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, with over 3,900 listed companies NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from Nasdaq OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit http://www.nasdaqomx.com.NDAQM
