NEW YORK - The judge overseeing the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy case on Thursday denied a request by Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group Inc., a real estate investment trust, for the return of a US$250-million mortgage-backed security. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck of the Southern District of New York refused to grant a temporary restraining order that FBR had sought to prevent the transfer of the security, even though FBR lawyer J.R. Smith acknowledged he did not know who currently held it. FBR had sued the Securities Investor Protection Corp., which has liquidated certain Lehman accounts and transferred assets to Barclays Capital. Barclays bought Lehman's U.S. banking unit early last week after Lehman rushed into a Chapter 11 filing on Sept. 15. In light of how quickly the case has moved, FBR lawyers asked for an emergency hearing. The judge, however, did not agree that their complaint warranted it. 'I am deeply concerned you created a fire drill expressly for your purpose,' Peck said. He denied FBR's request without testimony, and called it 'overreaching.' Peck said of SIPC, 'They say, and I have no reason to doubt the veracity of this, that the security in question is no longer in their possession and control. Now I don't know where it is. It may be at Barclays. It may be something that still needs to be accounted for.' Smith said FBR sold the security to Credit Suisse First Boston on Sept. 19, four days after Lehman filed for court protection and the same day Lehman got court approval of the asset sale to Barclays. 'That seems like pretty risky behaviour to me,' Peck said about the timing of FBR's sale. FBR filed its lawsuit Sept. 26. The Securities Investor Protection Corp. had argued it did not have the authority to return the security. 'Neither the completion of a contract or securities transaction, nor the payment of alleged damages suffered by FBR, are the kind of actions or losses which Congress gave SIPC the power to alleviate,' its lawyers argued in court papers. SIPC was created by Congress in 1970 to 'restore funds to investors with assets in the hands of bankrupt and otherwise financially troubled brokerage firms,' according to its Web site. Peck also ordered Lehman's lawyers to give an update on the case at its next hearing scheduled for Oct. 16. He said he had learned about an agreement to sell Neuberger Berman, Lehman's money management unit, in press releases. Lehman agreed to sell Neuberger to two private equity firms on Monday. 'I think that some greater transparency is desirable, not limited to clients who have chosen to engage, but for the world at large,' Peck said. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on Sept. 15. Since it entered Chapter 11, it has quickly sold its North American banking and trading operations, its money management business Neuberger Berman and its businesses in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Separately, mutual fund manager Vanguard Group Inc. filed Tuesday seeking to amend or vacate the sale to Barclays Capital, saying Lehman may have wrongly transferred $500 million worth of the sale proceeds to pay off a mortgage on its headquarters. Vanguard said in the filing its lawyers 'made several efforts to contact (Lehman's) counsel about the matter,' but didn't receive a response before filing the documents, due in part to the Rosh Hashanah holiday this week. - AP Business Writer Jennifer Malloy contributed to this report. 
