 While last year's credit-market collapse had already shaken up the league tables for structured-product bookrunners in late 2007 and early 2008, it was widely thought at midyear that the market's biggest players would get back to business as usual over the long run. Not any more, as already-scarce underwriting assignments from independent issuers have continued to dwindle and fewer banks chase that work. Total U.S. issuance of asset-backed bonds this year has plunged to $135.8 billion, from $524.3 billion, according to Asset-Backed Alert's ABS Database. It takes some digging to see how the developments are affecting market share. J.P. Morgan is heading into the fourth quarter as the most active underwriter of asset-backed securities in the U.S., with $27.1 billion of such deals for a 20% share. It was also in first place a year ago, but with a 10.2% piece of the market. Strip away deals from affiliates - mainly credit-card bonds issued by J.P. Morgan's Chase division - and this year's lead looks a lot less commanding. Under that scenario, J.P. Morgan is also in first place, but with a mere $12.3 billion of deals. That's only 45% of the bank's overall underwriting volume in the U.S. At this point in 2007, the institution derived 52% of its business from third-party issuers. And the ratio is sure to keep shrinking in the months ahead. The impact of self-issuance is felt across the top underwriters in the U.S. Bank of America is in second place when those deals are included, with $22.4 billion of transactions. But it falls to sixth place once they are removed, as a mere 36% of its business came from outside issuers. Citigroup is in third place either way, even though less than half of its assignments came from outside issuers.  The increased focus on securitizing in-house collateral is one of the consequences of the year-old credit crisis. The disappearance of independent mortgage lenders had already cut deeply into issuance volume since mid-2007, and stand-alone financing shops in other sectors have been largely sidelined by a lack of demand for their deals. More recently, the near extinction of traditional investment banks has left just one category of underwriter remaining: those who can count on deal flow from commercial-banking affiliates. Barclays has been a rare exception. All of its asset-backed transactions in the U.S. were of the third-party variety, putting the bank in fourth place in the main table in the States, but second once self-issuance is subtracted. The credit crisis is also manifested when all issues of asset-backed securities, CDOs and residential and commercial mortgage bonds worldwide are taken into account. Royal Bank of Scotland and its Greenwich Capital unit lead that ranking, with $76.8 billion of deals for a 10.1% market share. A year ago, RBS was in seventh place with a 5.7% piece of the market. Citi, the year-ago market leader, is now in second place with $69.6 billion of credit. It is followed by J.P. Morgan with $50.7 billion of deals. Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB round out the top five. But the worldwide ranking doesn't paint a true picture of what's really happening. Some of the figures are inflated by transactions that European banks exchanged for loans from the Bank of England and European Central Bank, as the central banks sought to prop up financial institutions under their jurisdictions. When those low-yielding deals are removed from the equation, J.P. Morgan takes the top spot, with $42.3 billion of assignments, followed by Citi and BofA. RBS falls to the sixth slot. Bank of Scotland and Lloyds are nowhere to be seen. So how much have government-exchange programs juiced up overall issuance volume? Including deals sold to central banks, the year-to-date total for all securitizations completed worldwide during the January-September period weighed in at $766.7 billion - down 60% from $1.9 trillion a year earlier. Without issues turned over to central banks, the worldwide total dips to $372.9 billion. That's an 80% decrease from this point last year, before the liquidity programs were put in place. It's also probably a more accurate reflection of how sluggish the industry has become. The last time worldwide issuance volume at the end of the third quarter was less than $400 billion was 1998. That was also the last time anyone could have topped the U.S. ranking with J.P. Morgan's current totals. Elsewhere in the worldwide ranking, bankrupt Lehman Brothers fell to eighth place from fourth, and soon-to-be BofA unit Merrill Lynch dropped from fifth to 14th. Credit Suisse, meanwhile, led a market for private-label mortgage bonds in the U.S. that has seen only $17.5 billion of deals price this year, down from $401.6 billion a year ago. The top spot used to belong to the failed Bear Stearns, which was purchased by J.P. Morgan in May. In the worldwide CDO market, or what's left of it, Lehman has the lead. The bank might keep that ranking through yearend, given its 23.6% share of the $77.6 billion of deals that have priced this year. On Sept. 30, 2007, the worldwide CDO total was $369.3 billion. With so little new-issue activity occurring, and even less of the resulting underwriting business up for grabs, conventional wisdom might suggest that investment banks would cut their fees in an effort to win what few assignments remain. But that hasn't happened. Some have even started charging more to distribute deals to an unreceptive investor audience. 'I've been paying the same fees for the past three years. You'd think it would have gone down because of the market, but it has remained consistent,' said the chief financial officer at an issuer of credit-card bonds. Bank executives confirm that they have no intention of dropping fees. They're of the mindset that as the credit crunch thins the investment-banking herd, their services will become more valuable. For a five-year issue of floating-rate bonds backed by credit-card accounts, underwriters are now charging underwriting fees equal to about 0.23% of the deals' principal balance. For a fixed-rate issue, that figure is 0.25%. Both of the charges are virtually unchanged from prevailing levels in recent years. Asset-Backed Alert's various rankings around the world account for publicly offered and privately placed securitizations. They exclude continuously offered products, such as those from commercial paper conduits, and the swap portions of synthetic issues. v 
