 Shares of Cupertino, California-base Apple (AAPL: sentiment, chart, options) have come roaring back along with the rest of the technology sector today. At last check, the stock was up nearly 12%, retaking the psychologically important 100 level. Prompting the rally, Sanford Bernstein upgraded AAPL to 'outperform' from 'market perform.' However, the brokerage firm also cut its price target on the shares to $135 from $175 per share. Credit Suisse followed suit on the price-target cut, dropping AAPL to $135 per share from $200 per share. In a note to clients, Sanford Bernstein said that the shares are now 'overly discounted,' and that the company's short-term financials are likely to remain strong despite an economic slowdown.However, the technical picture belies the optimism of this morning's upgrade. AAPL may have reclaimed the 100 level, but the shares are still staring up at their declining 20-day moving average and long-term support/resistance at the 110 level. The stock has not closed a session above its 20-day trendline since August 28, and my college Mark Fightmaster recently pointed outSentiment is also exceedingly bullish toward the equity, as its Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR) of 0.51 ranks at an annual low - indicating that options traders have not been more optimistic toward AAPL during the past year. Wall Street is also firmly entrenched in the bullish camp, as Zacks.com reports that 14 of the 20 analysts following AAPL rate the shares a 'buy' or better. Furthermore, since price-target cuts are en vogue among brokerage firms, the security is in danger of additional cuts. According to Thomson Financial, the current average 12-month price target for AAPL rests at $176.33 per share - an 82% premium to the stock's Friday close.Shares of Advanced Micro Devices (AMD: sentiment, chart, options) have surged nearly 10% so far today, while graphic-processor competitor NVIDIA (NVDA: sentiment, chart, options) has jumped more than 15%. The 2 semiconductor concerns received a boost after the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) closed its investigation into ATI Technologies' pricing and marketing practices. AMD acquired ATI Technologies in July 2006 in a deal valued at $5.4 billion. As for NVDA, the company reported that no specific allegations were made against the firm during the investigation.Technically speaking, both stocks have been beaten down in 2008, with NVDA off more than 79% and AMD dropping nearly 50%. Despite today's surge on the DOJ news, both securities could face near-term technical resistance from their respective 10-day moving averages. For its part, AMD has struggled with its 10-day and 20-day trendlines since early September, while NVDA popped above these short-term moving averages on September 26.We finally hit a divergence on the sentiment front. Options traders are expecting big things out of AMD, as its Schaeffer's put/call open interest ratio (SOIR) of 0.43 ranks below 98% of all those taken during the past year. This reading ranks just 2 percentage points shy of an annual low. Meanwhile, NVDA investors are relatively complacent, as the stock's SOIR of 0.59 rests near the midpoint of its annual range.Home goods retailer Bed Bath &amp;amp; Beyond (BBBY: sentiment, chart, options) was upgraded from 'underweight' to 'hold' this morning at KeyBanc Capital Markets. Analyst Bradley Thomas noted that competitor Linens 'n Things will most likely not be able to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. If the firm is liquidated, says Thomas, BBBY stands to grab a larger chunk of market share. However, the analyst shied away from raising BBBY to 'buy,' because he believes that sluggish consumer-spending trends will persist through the end of the year.Due to those macroeconomic concerns, Thomas trimmed his 2008 earnings-per-share estimates on BBBY from $1.80 to $1.69. His price target on the equity is $25, a discount of 7.4% to the stock's closing price on Friday.At last check, BBBY is up 2.7% to trade just shy of the $27 level. The shares are resting on their 160-month moving average, which could provide a floor for the stock during the near term. Meanwhile, there's plenty of room for additional upgrades if more analysts decide to follow Thomas's lead. Zacks reports that the security has just 3 'strong buy' ratings, compared to 9 'holds' and 4 'sell' or worse recommendations.Tech titan Cisco Systems (CSCO: sentiment, chart, options) is on the march higher this afternoon, thanks to an upgrade from JMP Securities. The brokerage upped the stock to 'market outperform' from 'market perform,' citing the company's history of surviving downturns and signs that businesses are still investing in network gear. The firm's analyst stated that CSCO 'knows how to deal with a downturn, having survived the dotcom/telecom meltdown.' In addition, the ratings house's 'channel checks suggest that the overall selling conditions for networking equipment have been deteriorating ... However, as IBM's upside preannouncement shows, while business is getting worse, it's not zero. Cisco has already reduced its forward estimates three times, resetting expectations for the company lower.' The economic slowdown aside, CSCO is expected to benefit from the ongoing bid to expand information technology networks, especially overseas. JMP called CSCO 'an agile giant' that 'will remain profitable during this downturn.' CSCO is more than 7% higher this afternoon thanks to this brokerage move. That said, the firm's year-to-date loss comes in at 36.35% - most of which has come during the past 4 weeks. At the same time, Gartner Inc. has come out with its forecast for global tech spending in the next year. The firm forecast a drop in Western European spending and a slight rise in the United States. Gartner slashed its information technology spending growth to 2.3% from 5.8%. Let's see what kind of impact this could have on CSCO as the day, and the week, progress.Property insurance firm Travelers Companies (TRV: sentiment, chart, options) said today that losses from financial investments and hurricane damages would result in a decrease to third-quarter net income of about $1 per diluted share. Operating income for the period will drop by about 80 cents per share. Travelers is slated to announce its third-quarter earnings on October 22, and analysts are expecting the company to report net income of $1.09 per share.Specifically, TRV will take after-tax catastrophe losses of $690 million for the quarter, primarily due to the effects of Hurricanes Dolly, Gustav, and Ike. (Before taxes, storm-related damages totaled $1.05 billion.) Meanwhile, losses on investments will arrive at $115 million after taxes, or $170 million before taxes. The investment-related losses include impairments of $44 million, after taxes, on securities issued by Lehman Brothers and its subsidiaries.Despite the warning, TRV is up about 15% this afternoon, boosted by a blockbuster day in the broad market. Year-to-date, the equity has dropped 43% under resistance from its 10-month and 20-month moving averages.Due to pervasive weakness in the airline industry, B/E Aerospace (BEAV: sentiment, chart, options) this morning slashed its earnings guidance through 2010. For the third quarter, the firm expects to collect a profit of 58 cents per share prior to acquisition- and debt prepayment-related costs. Revenue for the period is expected to rise 35% and top $578 million. Analysts' consensus estimates for the third quarter called for earnings of 54 cents per share on $610.4 million.BEAV, the world's largest supplier of airline seats and other jet equipment, dropped its 2009 forecast from a profit of $2.85 per share to $2.00 per share, with revenue of $2.5 billion expected. Fiscal results for 2010 are expected to outpace those for 2009.Separately, B/E Aerospace added that it's received a contract worth more than $1 billion from Airbus to supply its A350 XWB aircraft.Thanks to massive gains in the broad market, BEAV is up more than 19% this morning. The stock recently fell to 4-year lows, and it appears way overdue for price-target cuts from analysts. According to Thomson Financial, the average 12-month price target on the security is $38.50, a premium of 336% to Friday's close.Oil giants and Dow components Chevron and Exxon Mobil attracted another round of brokerage-firm attention this morning. Goldman Sachs added Chevron (CVX: sentiment, chart, options) to its 'conviction buy' list and reiterated a 'buy' opinion on the shares, and simultaneously raised its rating on Exxon Mobil (XOM: sentiment, chart, options) from 'neutral' to 'buy.' As justification for its bullish notes, Goldman said that it sees oil prices falling to $65 per barrel in the first quarter due to waning demand amid a global economic slowdown. In a note, the brokerage firm said, 'The cyclical downturn will last at least through the first half of 2009, with sustained improvement in global GDP the key to the cycle's turning back up.' Goldman predicts oil prices will average around $75 per barrel next year, and adds that it's a good environment in which to own well-capitalized, large oil companies.Today's upgrade represents another scrap of rather unwarranted optimism Shares of Wachovia (WB: sentiment, chart, options) have rallied more than 38% and Wells Fargo (WFC: sentiment, chart, options) is up nearly 4% after Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Ratings Services upgraded WB's counterparty credit rating to 'A+/A-1' from 'BBB-/A-3.' The move follows on the heels of WFC's announcement that it is proceeding with its plan to buy Wachovia. S&amp;amp;P also lifted its CreditWatch status on WB to 'positive' from 'developing.' 'The revision of Wachovia Corp.'s CreditWatch status reflects our expectation that the definitive agreement it has with Wells Fargo will close and that Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo's discussions concerning a possible sale of certain of Wachovia's banking assets have terminated,' said Victoria Wagner, a...
