BOSTON/CHICAGO, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Shares of top U.S. manufacturers, including 3M Co, Honeywell International Inc and Textron Inc tumbled on Thursday after a stock analyst downgraded the industrial sector, saying the credit crunch could mean a prolonged period of slow growth. The Standard&amp;amp;Poor's capital goods industry index tumbled more than 5 percent -- falling about twice as much as the broad S&amp;amp;P 500 index -- after Barclays Capital analyst Shannon O'Callaghan cut his view on the sector to 'neutral' from 'positive.' The downgrade came a day after the U.S. Senate approved a $700 billion government bailout package intended to boost the financial sector and stave off a prolonged recession. 'Regardless of legislative outcomes, balance sheets and psychology are likely to drive a deeper and more sustained credit crunch than we previously thought,' O'Callaghan wrote in a note to clients. He said he expected already-weak markets like autos and housing to get worse, and a slowdown in nonresidential construction to intensify. The financial crisis has already decimated Wall Street, claiming Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. NOT IMMUNE Industrial companies, many of which have argued that international growth opportunities and solid balance sheets should carry them through any downturn, are not immune, investors said. 'The credit crunch is becoming systemic and it's affecting companies' ability to borrow and also affecting their customers' ability to grow,' said Perry Adams, vice president and senior portfolio manager at Michigan-based Huntington Private Financial Group. 'Everybody is anticipating that is going to result in weaker earnings. The $64,000 question is the degree and the extent of earnings decline.' Barclays cut its stock price target on the following 14 capital goods companies: 3M, Honeywell, Textron, Colfax Corp, Crane Co, Dover Corp, Illinois Tool Works Inc, Ingersoll-Rand Co Ltd, Interline Brands Inc, ITT Corp, Roper Industries Inc, SPX Corp, Tyco International Ltd and Wesco International Inc. Shares slid across the sector. General Electric Co fell 9 percent and briefly touching a fresh 5-1/2 year low after soliciting $15 billion in new investment, including $3 billion from Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Caterpillar Inc tumbled 4.5 percent, hitting a new 52-week low. Textron shares dropped 5 percent. The S&amp;amp;P capital goods index is down about 33.5 percent so far this year, deeper than the 22.9 percent decline in the S&amp;amp;P 500. U.S. exports and earnings for companies with a significant international presence benefited earlier this year from the weakness of the U.S. dollar. But the dollar has rallied recently, with the dollar index touching a one-year high on Thursday. 'The currency (dollar) is beginning to work against these companies, and they're facing a very tough economic environment,' said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management. 'This is not just going to affect industrial companies. We are going to see this across the board,' Ghriskey said. 'The global economic outlook is not good, which means it's going to harder for these industrial companies to do business.' (Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) Varghese JosephvjCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2007. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
