A Lehman Brothers lawyer told a bankruptcy judge on Thursday that the company is emerging from the 'chaos' that characterized its Chapter 11 filing and the weeks immediately following it.Lehman rushed into court protection on Sept. 15 after buyout negotiations failed with Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Capital and the government failed to offer a bailout. Barclays ended up buying key Lehman units after the filing.Lawyer Harvey Miller of Weil, Gotsal &amp;amp; Manges said the failed investment bank hopes to be able to offer more details to creditors on the state of their cash and collateral within 45 to 60 days. Miller said the biggest obstacle that lies ahead is the unwinding of 1.5 million derivatives contracts.U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck also plans later Thursday to consider a request by some of those creditors to open an investigation into money transfers Lehman made before its Chapter 11 filing.Investment funds using the Harbinger name - which say they are owed more than $250 million - had asked to depose Lehman's Chief Financial Officer Ian Lowitt and examine internal documents for details about any assets transferred in the month before Lehman filed for bankruptcy.Lehman opposed Harbinger's request and called it 'inappropriate, unjustified and destructive,' in a court filing.Lehman's lawyers argued that Harbinger, and others who have seconded its request, are only trying to get what they're owed without regard for the fact that an investigation could be harmful because of the time it would take up.Harbinger was joined by Well Fargo Bank NA, Newport Global Opportunities Fund LP, Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, Fir Tree Value Master Fund LP and others.Partly at issue in Harbinger's request is $8 billion that Lehman Brothers' European business says was wrongly kept by Lehman's parent company, money the European arm felt should have been sent back the day of the filing.Miller, Lehman's lawyer, said it wsn't true that $8 billion had been transferred and that Lehman Brothers Europe actually owed money to the Lehman parent company. He said further that there was no evidence of anything out of the ordinary in any transfer of assets between the two.Later in the hearing, Peck is scheduled to consider preliminary approval of the sale of Lehman's investment management business to Bain Capital Partners and Hellman &amp;amp; Friedman for $2.15 billion. The deal includes money management firm Neuberger Berman, a 69-year-old name on Wall Street that now manages more than $130 billion of investments.Lehman Brothers entered bankruptcy protection on Sept. 15 with assets of $639 billion and debt of $613 billion. It was forced to file as pressure mounted from the shrinking credit markets and a loss of confidence among investors that it could carry on its day-to-day business.The filing marked the end of what was once the nation's fourth-largest investment bank. In addition to a buyout by Barclays Capital of key U.S. banking units, Lehman has agreed to sell its money management arm, Neuberger Berman, to two private equity firms and its Asian, European and Middle Eastern businesses to Japan's largest brokerage, Nomura Holdings Inc.
