Market chaos is fueling a conflagration of speculators. With equities, commodities and bonds plunging, those who bet on rising prices with borrowed money - from oligarchs to hedge funds and traders - are being burned. So are the banks that lent to them.Some of the bodies are already visible. The top 25 Russian oligarchs had suffered a $240 billion loss by the end of last week as measured from the peak in May, according to Bloomberg research. A big reason was that they had borrowed huge sums of money to supplement their already huge wealth and take giant bets on the stock market.Hedge funds, meanwhile, have seen record withdrawals in September: $43 billion was taken out in the United States, according to preliminary research by TrimTabs. Some observers say that half the industry's assets could vanish as a result of losses and redemptions - which fuel each other.A common feature of speculative investing is that it relies on leverage. That works wonders on the upside, magnifying returns. But the losses also get magnified on the downside. As margin calls roll in, assets must be sold rapidly. The current cascade of selling is further depressing prices, leading to a vicious spiral.It is unlikely this process is anywhere near ended. Three giant asset markets have all tumbled recently. Equities have been battered by the banking crisis and, now, recession fears; commodities have tumbled as China has started to 'recouple' with weak Western economies; and government bond markets also have fallen as investors have started to count the enormous cost of banking bailouts.There will, of course, be winners, such as those who have shorted equities, bonds and commodities. But even investors gloomy about banks may have gotten burned - if they took their bets through credit default swaps, which have now narrowed sharply.In the coming weeks, many more bodies will be laid out. Banks remain vulnerable in two ways. First, their own traders (the in-house speculators) may have made the wrong bets. Second, banks may not have insisted on adequate collateral when they provided leverage to outside speculators. As a result, they may suffer losses when positions have to be liquidated.Investors who have bought assets without leverage won't be as badly scarred. But for the speculators, the bonfire will teach the painful lesson that too much leverage and inadequate 'haircuts,' or markdowns, can destroy your wealth. - Hugo Dixon Britain set the bar high on bank clean-ups. The Swiss vaulted it. A combination of sweeping government initiatives and private capital raising should go some way to shoring up confidence in the country's two biggest banks, Credit Suisse and UBS.The Swiss authorities have gone further than their British counterparts. Their plan announced on Thursday pledges to guarantee new short and medium-term funding if needed, and offers more deposit protection. The government is also recapitalizing UBS with $5.3 billion of convertible instruments that equate to a 9.3 percent stake in the bank. It's a steep price - but given the $43 billion of net outflows from UBS' private bank in the third quarter, options were thin. Plus, UBS suffers less than the British banks receiving government assistance. It is unlikely to be prevented from resuming dividends next year and will suffer limited earnings-per-share dilution.But the major improvement on the British plan is the creation of a 'bad bank.' This is a special-purpose vehicle into which UBS can shift up to $60 billion of mortgage-related and other toxic assets. That will leave it with one of the cleanest balance sheets in banking. UBS will supply the 'bad bank' with $6 billion of equity capital. The state gets the first $1 billion of anything sold from it. After that, any proceeds are split equally between the state and UBS.In addition to its superior public-sector bank bailout plan, the Swiss also managed a better private-sector solution than did Britain. Barclays, the British bank, avoided taking government funds by persuading regulators it could execute a do-it-yourself recapitalization - but not until early 2009. Credit Suisse, in a far better condition than UBS, opted out of government assistance, too.But unlike Barclays, Credit Suisse has secured almost $9 billion. It is selling shares and other kinds of paper to existing shareholders from Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Israel. In exchange for giving them 12 percent of the bank, Credit Suisse will be one of the best capitalized banks anywhere. That seemed to comfort shareholders, who virtually overlooked the prospect of a third-quarter net loss of $1.1 billion. - Jeffrey Goldfarb
