by Elizabeth Harrow (eharrow@sir-inc.com) 10/20/2008 1:15 PMText SizeEmail a friend  Print  My Yahoo  Add RSSDel.icio.usFacebook Reddit Newsvine DiggKeywords: JOYG stocks optionsJoy Global Inc. (JOYG: sentiment, chart, options) has plummeted down the charts during the past several months, with the equity tumbling 70% from its June 6 peak at 90. The shares now trade south of the 30 region, and the stock hasn't finished a single trading day atop its 10-day moving average since September 23. Even more troubling, JOYG plunged through former support at the 40 and 35 regions without even pausing to catch its breath.As the stock flounders near 3-year lows, option players are rushing to buy call options on Joy Global. Last Friday, traders on the International Securities Exchange (ISE) bought to open 955 calls and 99 puts on the stock, for a single-day call/put ratio of 9.65.Meanwhile, on the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), investors last Friday bought to open 640 calls and 27 puts on the shares of JOYG. The equity's single-day call/put ratio on the CBOE was 23.70, revealing a vast preference for bullish bets over their bearish counterparts.In fact, during the past 10 days, JOYG has collected an ISE call/put ratio of 6.0. This ratio indicates that 6 times more calls than puts have been purchased on this exchange during the past couple of weeks. The stock's option volume on the ISE has been more skewed toward calls just 1.5% of the time in the past 52 weeks, which suggests that option-trader sentiment may be nearing a bullish climax on JOYG.Analysts have also piled onto the stock's bullish bandwagon. According to Zacks, Joy Global has earned 8 'buy' or better ratings, compared to just 4 'holds' and no 'sells.' Plus, Thomson Financial notes that the average 12-month price target on the stock is $66 -- a premium of 148% to JOYG's closing price last Friday.This optimistic configuration leaves the beaten-down security vulnerable to downgrades and/or price-target cuts. As recently as last Thursday, Barclays Capital trimmed its price target on the shares from $74 to $55. Any additional bearish notes from analysts could draw a fresh wave of selling pressure to the stock, extending its precipitous downtrend.Meanwhile, JOYG can't rely on short-covering support to stem its decline. Just 2.7% of the equity's float is sold short, a slim accumulation of bearish bets that would take less than 1 day to repurchase at the stock's average daily volume.Considering the sharp plunge in Joy Global over the past several months, it's disturbing to see almost no pessimism being levied against the stock. Until analysts and investors fully capitulate to the stock's negative price action, the shares will likely extend their downtrend.Did you know you can check out my latest SR.com headlines just by visiting your inbox? To sign up for our email alert service, simply click here and sign in with your Schaeffer's username and password. On the alerts page, select 'author' from the first drop-down box, choose your e-mail alert frequency, and type 'Elizabeth Harrow' into the third box.
