Richard S Fuld Jr, chief executive officer of Lehman Brothers, ignored a warning that the bank's 'liquidity can disappear quite fast' and dismissed suggestions that staff may not get their bonuses.Days from becoming the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history, Lehman Brothers steered millions to departing executives even while pleading for a federal rescue, Congress heard.  The American government let Lehman go under on September 15, only to bail out insurance giant AIG the next day, in a cascading series of financial shocks and failures that put Washington on track for the multibillion-dollar rescue starting the end of that week.President George Bush and U.S. Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson set about convincing US political leaders that the rescue package, which commits up to 403billion of taxpayers' money, was necessary. More...      The revelations about the payments to the bank's executives came in the first hearing into what caused the U.S. financial markets to collapse last month, which opened with finger-pointing and glimpses into internal company documents from Lehman's chaotic final hours.Asked if it was true he took home some 275 million in compensation since 2000, Mr Fuld took off his glasses, held them, and looked uncomfortable. He said his compensation was not quite that much.'We had a compensation committee that spent a tremendous amount of time making sure that the interests of the executives and the employees were aligned with shareholders,' he said.  Mr Fuld added that he took home more than 172million in those years - some 34.4million in cash compensation.But he told the Oversight and Government Reform Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives: 'I take full responsibility for the decisions that I made and for the actions that I took.' Bonuses totalling over 10million were paid to three departing Lehman Brothers executives just days before the investment bank collapsed.The huge payouts were made as the Wall Street giant pleaded for rescue, Congress was told.Suggestions that bosses should forgo the payments were dismissed, according to documents revealed at the inquiry.Mr Fuld said he would wonder 'until they put me in the ground' why the U.S. government did not rescue the 158-year-old Wall Street firm and claimed regulators knew the full scale of its condition far before its collapse.Despite his acceptance of his role before the collapse, U.S. lawmakers expressed outrage to Fuld about Lehman on Monday, saying that Fuld, board members, regulators and Congress all shared blame for its downfall.Fuld said he did not know why the U.S. government chose to help other financial companies, but not Lehman as it hurtled toward disaster.Several lawmakers asked why the government stepped in to help insurance company American International Group.'Until the day they put me in the ground I will wonder,' Fuld said. 'I do not know why we were the only one' that was not rescued.One day after Lehman filed for bankruptcy protection, U.S. authorities stepped in to rescue AIG with a plan to lend the insurer up to 48 billion. The panel will hear from former AIG executives on Tuesday.Fuld said Lehman took steps to reduce its leverage as market conditions worsened and by Sept 10 it had reduced its balance sheet by close to 112 billion.Federal prosecutors in New York are looking into whether Lehman executives misled investors by making upbeat comments during a conference call that day, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, and lawmakers grilled Fuld on those comments.Rep. Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, cited an e-mail exchange in which George Walker, President Bush's cousin and a member of the Lehman executive committee, mocked a proposal for top company executives to forego their 2008 bonuses.  Walker responded to the proposal from a fund manager at Lehman unit Neuberger Berman by saying, 'Sorry, team. I'm not sure what's in the water' at the unit's headquarters.Fuld also dismissed the idea. 'Don't worry -- they are only people who think about their own pockets,' he said in an e-mail to Walker.'In ... my block in Baltimore,' said Cummings, 'if they perform poorly, they get fired. They certainly do not get a bonus.'Republicans on the committee also expressed outrage over corporate behavior.After the hearing, top Republicans on the panel asked Waxman to hold a hearing on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's role in the financial crisis. Rep. John Mica, a Florida Republican, also said he asked committee staff to explore the possibility of a special counsel investigation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Fuld blamed several events for Lehman's downfall, including abusive short selling, false rumors, credit agency downgrades and loss of confidence by clients and counterparties.Over the summer, Fuld said Lehman discussed with the Fed the possibility of converting to a bank holding company, the structure Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have adopted.Fuld said the Fed acted too late to broaden the types of collateral that banks could pledge to create liquidity.'Had these changes been made sooner, they would have been extraordinarily helpful to Lehman,' Fuld said.Law enforcement officials have said the FBI is investigating Lehman, Fannie, Freddie and AIG as part of a wider probe into potential corporate fraud.
