(SinoCast China Financial Watch via COMTEX) -- MS   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- U.S. investment banks are selling their properties in China on the aftershock of subprime lending crisis.Morgan Stanley's China real estate unit has been reducing employees since the start of 2008, said an anonymous insider. Reducing employees and selling properties are major missions of the Wall Street premier investment bank this year.Morgan Stanley, the earlier foreign investor in China, acquired many business properties in major cities at low prices circa 2005.It is selling three properties located in Shanghai, namely Xintiandi Building, Jinlin Tiandi service apartment and Pinnacle Century Park. Morgan Stanley bought Xintiandi Building in 2003 as its first investment in Shanghai. Jinlin Tiandi service apartment with monthly rents ranging from USD 6400 to over CNY 10,000 has been put for sale several months. Morgan Stanley in 2006bought Pinnacle Century Park, which consists of 284 units of houses.Moreover, the investment made a decision that it would not continue investment in Shanghai World Financial Center.The similar situation went for other US investment banks and financial companies. Citigroup expects to sell two high- floor apartments in a residential property located in Minhang District and Merrill Lynch intends to sell a property project in Western Nanjing Road of Shanghai.Lehman Brothers, the collapsed US investment bank, is selling its equity in Shanghai Fuhai Building and is to terminate rental of the office on CITIC Square ahead of schedule.Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Japan's largest banking group, announced earlier that it is acquiring 10-20 percent stake in Morgan Stanley.Standard Chartered, Barclays and Nomura are fighting to acquire the flagship Asian operations of Lehman Brothers.Foreign private equity funds remain optimistic about the Chinese market, but the Chinese authorities' administration rules and laws pinch foreign investment in the world's fourth largest economy.Private equity funds are expecting for new rules helpful to the opening of Chinese market and amendment to examination rules on private equity investments.Some homegrown private equity firms in China show interest in taking over the properties that U.S. investment banks are selling off, if the prices are appropriate.The properties have good locations, and so they are quoted higher prices. Considering the market risk and shortage of property management expertise, some homegrown private equity firms expect to acquire a few.However, jittery over possible losses, some others suspend investment in such an environment.(USD 1 = CNY 6.84)From www.hexun.com, Page 1, Sunday, September 28, 2008 info@SinoCast.comFor full details on Morgan Stanley (MS) click here. Morgan Stanley (MS) has Short Term PowerRatings of 5. Details on Morgan Stanley (MS) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
