Stocks on Monday erupted for their best gains since the 1930s as investors cheered moves by Europe and the U.S. to solve the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. European governments announced huge rescue efforts. The U.S. government will declare similar sweeping moves on Tuesday, including a reported $250 billion in capital injections into banks.Morgan Stanley soared 87% after securing a $9 billion investment from Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ in exchange for preferred shares that pay a 10% dividend. Terms were reworked after Morgan's 60% stock plunge last week. The S&amp;amp;P 500 surged a record 11.6% and the Dow 11.1%, its best day since 1932. The Nasdaq rose 11.8%, second only to a gain in January 2001. But those only offset some of last week's record sell-off. 'We were technically tremendously oversold,' said Brandon Thomas, chief investment officer for Envestnet Asset Management, which manages $45 billion.But markets will likely be 'very volatile' until the credit crunch's impact becomes clearer, he said. The Federal Reserve turned the dollar spigot all the way up to try to revive arid credit markets. On Monday it agreed to provide unlimited dollar funding for European central banks. 'Central banks will continue to work together and are prepared to take whatever measures are necessary to provide sufficient liquidity in short-term funding markets,' the Fed said. After weeks of squabbling, Germany, France and four other European nations will commit $2.3 trillion to guarantee lending between banks, buy shares in ailing financials and back many bank debts.Britain, which backed interbank lending last week, said it would set aside $63 billion to buy stakes in Royal Bank of Scotland, (RBS) HBOS and Lloyds TSB. As a result, the government will own a majority of RBS and HBOS. Following in Europe's footsteps, the U.S. government on Tuesday will announce plans to buy stakes in big financials, guarantee bank deposits and back interbank lending, according to several reports.Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson met with the heads of several U.S. banking giants. 'What you really needed was everybody getting on the same page. They may be taking different actions but they're all going in the same direction,' said Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist for ChannelCapitalResearch.com.Gauges of credit availability improved somewhat Monday. The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, on three-month dollar loans between banks fell to 4.75% from its 2008 high of 4.82%. 'The chances have obviously increased that interbank rates will fall because of the forceful global response . . . in particular Europe's commitment to inject capital into banks, and the guaranteeing of new bank debt,' Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak, said in a note. But the drop was 'not enough to reduce anxieties significantly,' he said. Credit default swap prices did fall sharply on Monday, though.After months of mostly piecemeal efforts by the world's central banks and governments, policymakers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations agreed Friday to take 'all necessary steps' to avert a global financial meltdown.European bourses jumped Monday. Germany's DAX rose 11.4%,France's CAC 11.1% and Britain's FTSE 8.3%. 'A willingness to make investments in banks has certainly led to a favorable result,' said Thomas di Galoma, head of Treasuries trading at Jefferies &amp;amp; Co.Yet Iceland extended its stock-trading halt after seizing its three top banks last week. A spokesman for the International Monetary Fund denied earlier reports that the island nation has officially sought IMF aid.
