Competition intensified to buy up distressed U. S. financial institutions yesterday as Washington moved to extended the reach of relief efforts.As the U. S. Treasury prepared to appoint asset managers to administer its US$700-billion bailout, authorities signalled they would take extra steps to prevent the failure of individual institutions through operations similar to the rescue of American International Group.AIG was set to invite preliminary expressions of interest this week from rival Canadian and international insurers for parts of its global empire as the new management acts to pay of an US$80-billion federal rescue loan, according to a person close to the process.AIG is prepared to sell off its highly-prized life assurance subsidiary in Asia, which is among the most sought-after asset for Toronto-based insurers Manulife Financial Corp., Sun Life Financial Inc., and Great-West Lifeco Inc.There is expected to be fierce competition for these assets from European insurers as well as competitive bidding rounds for other AIG businesses on the block, including the American Life Insurance Company and an overseas consumer lending arm.A top Canadian investment banker described the auction as the 'world's greatest yard sale.' 'It is still early days,' said a person close to the process, which is being run by JP Morgan and Blackstone.The steady progress on a turn-round of AIG was in stark contrast to the deepening disarray surrounding the government bail out of Wachovia, the failed U. S. lender being fought over by two of the biggest banks in the country.The rescue remained in legal limbo after Citigroup said it has won the right to continue exclusive talks with Wachovia about a takeover that has already been signed off and financially backed by Washington, after the failing U. S. lender secretly made a conflicting agreement to be bought by Wells Fargo for 80 per cent more.Citigroup won a temporary injunction from New-York Justice Charles Ramos, who granted a request from Citigroup to block the sale of Wachovia to Wells Fargo.Citigroup said last week it agreed to buy Wachovia's banking assets for US$2.2-billion, but within days Wells Fargo said it had signed an agreement to buy the whole of Wachovia, including its asset management unit and retail brokerage, for about US$15-billion.The surprise development was cheered by investors who standto reap more than seven times the amount offered in the Citigroup deal.The Citi legal victory was seen as buying time for the bank's board to consider raising its bid, though this would likely force the company to raise fresh capital.Citigroup is being backed by federal authorities who brokered the original deal, but the legal dispute shows how emergency measures are not being universally accepted by investors and managers.Wachovia said its agreement with Wells Fargo remains valid and offers a better deal for shareholders and taxpayers. Wells Fargo said in a statement it has a binding merger agreement with Wachovia, and its deal, which keeps Wachovia intact, is better for all of Wachovia's stakeholders. 'We are confident that we will complete our announced merger with Wachovia. Nothing in the court's temporary order impacts our ability to ultimately do that,' Wells Fargo said. The outcome of the bid battle will likely determine which bank emerges as the top retail operator in the country after an unprecedented wave of consolidation accelerated by the collapse of Lehman Brothers.The failed chief executive of Lehaman, Dick Fuld, is scheduled to appear before Congress today in what would be his first public appearance since Lehman filed for bankruptcy.Congress is expected to grill the CEO and has asked him to provide internal documents and communications transmitted to and from the executive suites during a 180-day period leading up to Sept. 16, the day after Lehman, the 158-year-old investment bank and Wall Street fixture, filed for bankruptcy.
