The Federal Reserve took emergency action on Tuesday to help companies survive a cash shortage while a gloomy Chairman Ben Bernanke hinted at interest rate cuts, but stocks plunged to fresh multiyear lows.  Stocks opened higher after the Fed said it will buy huge amounts of short-term commercial paper to unfreeze the key short-term funding source for many firms. But the major averages were already sharply lower when Bernanke triggered another leg down, saying the credit crunch could lengthen and deepen the economic pain.The S&amp;amp;P 500 fell 5.7% to close below 1000 for the first time in five years. The Nasdaq dived 5.8% and the Dow 5.1%. Those follow losses of roughly 4% on Monday.Financial and commodity stocks led the broad-based declines.Bernanke suggested the Fed may cut rates from the current 2%, saying the central bank will need to consider if current policy 'remains appropriate.' Futures traders widely expect the Fed to cut rates by a half point 20 its Oct. 28-29 meeting, with some experts calling for more.The Fed will create a new facility to buy 3-month asset-backed and unsecured commercial paper. Several media outlets said late Monday a plan was in the works.The Treasury Department believes the plan was 'necessary to prevent substantial disruptions to the financial markets and the economy,' according to the Fed.The paper market has fallen $208 billion over the last three weeks to a three-year low as skittish buyers demanded higher interest rates.Companies issue the short-term debt to finance daily operations, such as paying staff or holding inventory. 'This move by the Fed to put a backstop in the commercial paper market idea is a brilliant idea; it's something that's needed,' said Tom di Galoma, head of U.S. Treasuries trading at Jefferies &amp;amp; Co.But, he added, 'the problems that we see today will be with us through year-end. There's still quite a mess to sort out here.'Credit woes are also intensifying overseas, prompting authorities on Tuesday to take new measures.Britain may inject billions of dollars in public funds into U.K. banks. A formal announcement is expected Wednesday. (See story on this page.) Barclays' U.S. shares fell 22%.Iceland took over its second-biggest bank, propped up its currency and sought a $5.4 billion loan from Russia.Russia offered to inject $36.4 billion into its own banks.Australia slashed interest rates by a full percentage point 15 6%, twice what investors expected.The European Union agreed to increase bank deposit insurance in all 27-member countries, following independent moves by several nations, starting with Ireland. But there was no agreement on an EU-wide rescue.Bernanke said the Fed's action to boost the commercial paper market and the Treasury's $700 billion financial rescue should help restore confidence. That will 'lay the groundwork for financial and economic recovery,' he said. But recovery plans are coming faster and faster, and that hasn't stopped Wall Street's bleeding. Meanwhile, the central bank is reportedly holding meetings this week to create a regulated market for credit default swaps. A CDS clearinghouse would address counterparty risks that have sent debt insurance costs soaring.CME Group (NasdaqGS:CME - News) announced plans on Tuesday to create such a clearinghouse. Intercontinental Exchange also is in the mix.Alcoa (NYSE:AA - News) late Tuesday said third-quarter profit fell 42% vs. a year earlier, well below views. The aluminum giant blamed weaker prices and demand, and higher costs.Software giant SAP (NYSE:SAP - News) and big financials Bank of America (NYSE:BAC - News) and Hartford (NYSE:HIG - News) warned or preannounced results Monday. BofA shares sank 26% Tuesday on its big miss and plans to sell $10 billion in shares.
