A deal with the pariah, Argentina, now seems the lesser evil, writes Richard Reynolds in Buenos AiresIT IS a happy financial marriage, but one made in hell. Three banks made utterly desperate by the credit crisis meet an equally desperate government and unexpectedly hatch a plan to solve one of the world's worst and oldest debt crises.It involves Argentina, which provoked the world's biggest banking default in 2005, and three of the world's biggest banks: Citigroup, Deutche Bank and Barclays. All three are desperate to revive their ravaged balance sheets.And Argentina itself is in only slightly better shape. It faces an enormous bill of $US14 billion ($18 billion) next year just to service its still outstanding debt - a sum it could meet, but only with some effort and luck.Also, its 2005 default means it has been frozen out of international capital markets, with multibillion-dollar lawsuits hanging over its head in the US and Europe. This translates into staggeringly high (up to 15 per cent) interest rates on the debt it has issued since the default.Both sides needed to deal. And after months of ignoring each other's phone calls, suddenly, and to nearly everyone's surprise, the two sworn enemies are talking. And they both sound desperate.According to the Argentine Government, the two sides began formal talks a week or so back. The banks, perhaps embarrassed by their climbdown, are not talking about the details, but tacitly acknowledge the embrace.In 2005 Argentina's then-president Nestor Kirchner told the International Monetary Fund and the world's financial community where to go. Perhaps, without surprise (at the time), some of the world's bankers tried to tell Argentina - the long-time poster child for out-of-control sovereign debt - who was actually in charge.And perhaps they were, for a time. Then came the credit crunch.After the South American nation defaulted in 2005 on nearly $US100 billion worth of debt (the biggest default ever), a handful of international banks (mostly representing small debt holders, such as Italian pensioners) said they would 'never' take Argentina's offer of 65c to 70c in the dollar. While many Continued...Page1 2Story ToolsGot news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs
