Today's in-depth look at the week ahead begins with a recap of last week's abysmal performance from the major-market indices and the possibility that the Dow could log its worst October ever. Next, Schaeffer's Senior Vice President of Research Todd Salamone examines market sentiment, the CBOE Market Volatility Index (VIX), and the continued lack of real fear in the current market environment. Joe Sunderman, Vice President of Financial Market Analytics, dives even further into the VIX and the lack of premium the index shows relative to the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index's 20-day historical volatility. Finally, we wrap up with a look at some key economic and earnings reports slated for release this week.Recap of the Previous Week: Market Indices on Pace for Worse October Ever By Joseph Hargett, Senior Equities AnalystThe Dow Jones Industrial Average finished another horrific week of trading, and is well on its way to logging its most infamous October showing ever. Currently, the Dow is off more than 22% for the month, versus the roughly 23% declines logged in October 1987 and 1929. But despite its inauspicious finish last week, the Dow actually rallied more than 400 points on Monday, with traders cheering Ben Bernanke's endorsement of a new economic stimulus package and a few solid quarterly earnings reports. Tuesday marked a return to form for the market, with the Dow dropping more than 200 points on a mixed performance from blue-chip companies in the earnings realm and Kirk Kerkorian's Tracinda ditching its 6.5% stake in Ford Motor (F). The situation deteriorated rapidly on Wednesday, as strong earnings reports from Apple (AAPL) and McDonald's (MCD) couldn't outweigh the tide of disappointment on Wall Street. The Dow finished Wednesday with a loss of more than 500 points, or 5.69%, to close back below the 9,000 level.Thursday offered up a bit of respite for Wall Street, as a dead-cat-bounce in the major-market indices allowed the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) to end the session with a gain of 172 points, or 2.02%. Not much had changed on Thursday, as General Motors (GM) warned of job cuts, weekly initial jobless claims surged, and Alan Greenspan meekly stated that he might have been wrong in assuming that complex financial instruments, such as credit default swaps, did not require oversight. It was clear that Friday was going to be a no good, horrible, very bad day when futures trading tripped the circuit breakers on Wall Street. But traders found their heads by the start of regular trading, sending the Dow lower by a mere 312 points, or 3.59%. For the week, the DJIA lost 5.4%, the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index (SPX) shed 6.8%, and the tech-laden Nasdaq Composite (COMP) plummeted 9.3%.What the Trader is Expecting in the Coming Week: All We Have to Fear Is a Lack of Fear Itself By Todd Salamone, Senior Vice President of Research Is there really the kind of elevated fear among traders and investors that is necessary for a bottom in a market like this? I have my doubts. In last week's , we focused support/resistance areas for the S&amp;amp;P 500 Index (SPX), market sentiment, and the CBOE Market Volatility Index (VIX). Let's quickly review the key points from last week's commentary so that we can update their status: 'As we head into this week's trading, we view the 1,000 level as a potential area of resistance. Support, meanwhile, should manifest in the 850 region.-- the fear barometer [VIX] heads into this week at a discount to the SPX's 20-day historical volatility. One could conclude, therefore, that while the VIX is high relative to historical readings, it is far from high compared to historical volatility -- Are we seeing fear emerge? Certainly -- However, a couple investment polls that we follow showed rising bullishness amid the downturn 2 weeks ago, particularly among retail investors.' On Friday, we saw a television commentator talk about her grandfather purchasing stocks in 1932 and 1987 - something she said she keeps in mind during this period. We also saw a slew of headlines last week declaring that the situation could be worse, or that it isn't as bad as expected. All the while, we watched the market plunge significantly lower. Clearly, this is not the type of panic that you'd expect, nor the fear that we'd much rather be seeing at this point. Moreover, think of how many advisors have reminded you that the U.S. has been in a weak position before and has come out of these scenarios just fine, or how many times have you heard, 'Why sell now?' As I have noted before, we are seeing a trickle of fear on Wall Street, but this rivulet of caution holds little weight in the current bear market. Meanwhile, we are also seeing a fair amount of hope among traders, which could be preventing the panic necessary to force a market bottom. Put another way, how many commentators and strategists are advising you to buy portfolio insurance or sell stocks immediately? How many would you expect to hear urging this caution with the SPX down 40% in the past year? Keep in mind that during the 1929-1932 bear market, stocks fell 89% - a fact that the objective investor would do well to consider when debating the 'Why sell now?' question. The most recent poll by the American Association of Individual Investors may better quantify the point I'm making above. In last week's survey, 38% of those surveyed were bullish and another 38% were bearish. Putting this in perspective, the reading was 54% bearish and 27% bullish in mid-September when the SPX as trading 25% above its current levels. In mid-July, 58% were bearish and 25% were bullish. I find it mind-boggling that the recent downturn has not generated a level of fear among retail investors greater than the levels seen in prior months.Turning to the CBOE Market Volatility Index (VIX), Friday's action produced yet another all-time high for the fear barometer. Even so, the surge to 89.53 failed to push the VIX to a significant premium versus the SPX's actual volatility of 81.77. The VIX high on Friday was a 9.4% premium to actual volatility, which is below the 22% premium generated on Friday, October 10. In other words, we saw less fear among index options players this past Friday, even though the market was once again trading at levels seen on Friday, October 10. The concern is that these VIX premiums are too low by historical standards. In fact, based on the current level of actual volatility, the VIX should be trading somewhere north of 110 if real fear has entered the market, with a reading near 140 indicating panic.On the intraday graph below, the SPX pretty much followed the script I laid out last week in terms of support and resistance. We continue to see 1,000 as an area of resistance, with the 850 area offering up a potential area of support. Given that we are only slightly above the 850 mark as we enter this week's trading, the 775-800 region (home to the 2002-2003 bear market lows) becomes the next layer of potential short-term support. As I stated on CNBC last Thursday, 2 major sources of uncertainty continue to hamper this market:The extent of the credit crisis, whether or not the bailout will work, and any unintended negative consequences of the bailout.Questions as to how long the vicious cycle of forced selling continues, specifically among hedge funds who are being greeted with redemption requests and other obligations that forces them to raise cash.Given the uncertainty expressed above, we recommend avoiding the energy, commodity, big-cap technology, and metals sectors. Furthermore, hedge your short-term directional exposure, as the market can change course at a moment's notice. Options can be an excellent tool in this environment. With the leverage they provide, one can have less cash at risk while utilizing them as a stock substitute or as a way to speculate on additional downside in the markets, without the risk of margin calls.Indicator of the Week: The CBOE Market Volatility Index (VIX) By Joe Sunderman, Vice President of Financial Market Analytics Foreword: During the past several weeks, Todd Salamone has been concerned with the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) Market Volatility Index (VIX). Today, in my weekly commentary, I will dive into this indicator.Background: The VIX is a sentiment tool that measures market expectations for near-term volatility. The VIX is constructed using the implied volatilities of a wide range of S&amp;amp;P 500 Index (SPX) options. This volatility is intended to be forward looking, and is calculated from both calls and puts. The VIX is often referred to as an investor 'fear gauge,' as it provides insights into how the investing community views future volatility. During challenging market periods, the VIX will tend to rise, as investors brace for higher levels of volatility. On the other hand, during quiet market periods, a low VIX is a sign that investor fear is subsiding.Data Interpretation: There are a couple of methodologies to how to interpret VIX data. The most common interpretation is arrived at by comparing current VIX readings to prior readings. A different interpretation of the VIX is achieved by tracking the indicator's trend. We will focus on the latter interpretation in this commentary.Current Reading: Beyond the market volatility that has gripped investors for the past few weeks, 1 of the more disconcerting developments we have seen is the 'trendiness' of the VIX. The current trend has been very consistent during the past several weeks, as the fear barometer has found support from its short-term moving averages.In the accompanying chart, we show a snapshot of the VIX with its 10-day moving average (red) and 20-day moving average (green) for the past 6 months. Standing out in this graphic is the fact that the VIX has not experienced a close below its 10-day moving average since August 28. Furthermore, the VIX has yet to close below its 20-day moving average since August 27. Despite the fierce uptrend, the VIX has traded at a significant ...
