Wachovia Corp. Chief Executive Bob Steel doesnt stand to receive a big payout due to Wachovias sale of its banking operations to Citigroup Inc. But a few of Wachovias other top executives do.Three of Wachovias top executives have change-in-control agreements with the company that will pay them millions if they are terminated or choose to resign following Citis (NYSE: C) acquisition of the companys banking operations.Ben Jenkins, head of Wachovias general bank, will receive $13.3 million in severance payments and a pro-rated bonus of $3.7 million, according to a securities filing last year.Steve Cummings, head of the companys corporate and investment bank, will nab a $12.8 million severance payment and a bonus of $3.75 million.And David Carroll, head of Wachovias capital-management group, will get a $10.3 million severance payment and a bonus of $2.75 million.All three have employment agreements with the bank that provide handsome packages in the event of a change-in-control at the company, which includes an acquisition. The agreements also call for the immediate vesting of stock options and restricted stock awards that could have netted them millions more but have declined dramatically along with the companys shares, which are trading in the low single digits.In March of last year, when Wachovias stock was trading above $50 per share, the total change-in-control packages including options and stock awards for Jenkins, Cummings and Carroll that were valued at $34 million, $29 million and $25 million, respectively.In addition to their severance payments, the three executives would also be entitled to medical, dental and life insurance benefits for themselves and their family members for life if they are terminated or resign after the deal closes.Steels employment agreement does not entitle him to any severance payments, and he may be regretting his excellent investment in the company.Steel bought 1 million shares of Wachovia stock in July for more than $16 million.Since then, Wachovias stock has plummeted, and Steels options and stock grants received when he took the job appear worthless.Shares of Wachovia were hovering just above $3 this afternoon. Steel bought his shares July 24 at prices ranging from $15.32 to $17.02.Wachovia is a great company and I made the investment because I believe in the core strengths of the organization and that it is an excellent investment, Steel said at the time.New York-based Citi will pay $2.16 billion to Wachovia (NYSE: WB) for its retail bank, corporate and investment bank and wealth-management businesses. The company will also assume $53 billion in Wachovias senior and subordinated debt.Wachovia will remain a publicly traded company headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., but its businesses will consist only of the retail brokerage and asset-management units. The deal is expected to close before year-end. It has been approved by the directors of both companies and is subject to Wachovia shareholder and regulatory approval.Steel, who was named Wachovia CEO on July 9, most recently was Under Secretary for Domestic Finance for the U.S. Department of Treasury. He spent the vast majority of his career at Goldman Sachs &amp;amp; Co. Upon joining Wachovia in July he was given options to purchase a total of 1,500,000 Wachovia shares, vesting in three installments, which are part of a long-term incentive grant that could have been worth up to $15 million. That incentive grant consists of those stock options and restricted stock awards, half of which would vest only if the stock traded at $25 for 15 days. The other half would vest only if the stock traded at $30 for the same period. He also got a one-time stock award then valued at $10 million, similarly tied to the stocks performance--the stock must trade at $20 for 15 days for half to vest, and then at $35 for 15 days for the other half to vest.However, under a change of control, Steels performance goals for his restricted stock award could be adjusted equitably based on the consideration received in the relevant transaction.His annual salary is $1.1 million and he has a target annual bonus of $6 million.Tom Wurtz, the former chief financial officer of Wachovia, also had an employment agreement and would have been entitled to change-in-control benefits but he recently retired. Its unclear if his departure was considered a voluntary termination, under which he would have been entitled to no payments or benefits, or a termination by the company without cause or by the executive for good reason. Under the latter Wurtz would receive severance payments of $4.1 million and a bonus of $1.6 million.David Zwiener, Wurtzs replacement who was hired as CFO this month, was given a guaranteed minimum annual cash incentive award of $937,500, to be payable in February.
