* Cuomo: Merrill traders may have delayed taking losses  * Rejects secrecy on bonuses, cites Lewis deposition  * BofA says has offered bonus data on confidential basis (Adds Bank of America comment, edits)  NEW YORK, March 11 (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch &amp; Co may have misled Congress in representing last November that it planned to pay out bonuses at year end, when in fact it decided to accelerate those payouts, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said on Wednesday.  The attorney general also said Merrill traders may have delayed taking hefty losses late last year until after the company decided to pay out $3.62 billion of overall bonuses.  He also again rejected the attempt by Bank of America Corp (BAC.N), which bought Merrill on Jan. 1, to keep the names of bonus recipients confidential, after the bank's Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis said he had never in 40 years of banking demanded confidentiality.  The allegations were made in filings with the New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, two days before Justice Bernard Fried is expected to hold a hearing on whether to keep bonus details private.  Bank of America spokesman Scott Silvestri said the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank has continually offered to provide Cuomo with information on Merrill bonuses 'subject to reasonable confidentiality.'  The bank has previously said it would suffer 'grave harm' in agreeing to all of Cuomo's demands, citing concerns about competitors poaching staff and privacy.  Cuomo is examining whether the bonuses violated securities laws, and whether Bank of America should have disclosed more about Merrill's condition sooner.  MERRILL 'MISLEADING,' CUOMO SAYS  According to Wednesday's filings, John Finnegan, a Merrill director and chairman of its compensation committee, said at a March 3 deposition he did not remember any resistance to a proposal by Chief Executive John Thain at a Nov. 11 meeting to paying out bonuses before year end.  Cuomo said it was thus 'misleading' for Merrill to tell Congress in late November that it planned to make incentive compensation decisions at year end. He said Merrill had made a similar misleading representation to his office on Nov. 5.  Merrill had, in previous years, traditionally waited until after the new year to award bonuses.  The attorney general also said Merrill learned less than a week after setting bonuses on Dec. 8 that it would suffer $7 billion of additional quarterly losses, on top of $8 billion it already expected. By delaying losses, traders could make their results prior to the awarding of bonuses look better. Continued...  
