Modifications to the 2007 pact include freezing wages and cutting benefits.  AUTOMOTIVE  Workers OK Ford changes  Unionized workers at Ford Motor Co. have approved contract changes that include freezing wages and cutting benefits to help the automaker remain competitive.  The United Auto Workers said a majority of hourly workers voted in favor of modifications to the 2007 contract with Ford, eliminating cost-of-living increases and cash bonuses.  The agreement is expected to be a model for Chrysler and General Motors Corp., which need to bring their labor costs in line with those of foreign auto companies' plants in the U.S. as a condition for the $17.4 billion they have received in federal loans so far.  CHEMICALS  Dow to complete Rohm buyout  Dow Chemical Co. reached a tentative deal to complete its disputed $15-billion buyout of Rohm &amp; Haas Co. The combined company will shed more jobs than originally planned and freeze salaries this year.  Rohm &amp; Haas shareholders will still get $78 a share but not all of it in cash, a concession that allows Dow to take on billions less in debt than under the original terms.  Dow said it would cut 3,500 jobs on top of the 6,000 cuts previously announced.  BANKING  BofA pressed on Merrill bonuses  New York's attorney general and a key congressman are demanding that the chief executive of Bank of America Corp. immediately disclose details about individual bonuses paid to Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. employees in December.  The Charlotte, N.C., bank acquired Merrill on Jan. 1.  The letter from Atty. Gen. Andrew Cuomo and Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) to Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis comes as Cuomo's office and the bank fight about whether details of individual bonuses should be made public.  Citigroup rewards unit's top brokers  Beleaguered banking giant Citigroup Inc. spent about $3.5 million to reward top-performing advisors at its Smith Barney brokerage unit.  The payments are in lieu of three trips Citi usually plans for the division's top revenue-generating advisors. Those trips were canceled earlier in attempts to slash costs amid the ongoing economic downturn.  Citi has posted five consecutive quarterly losses and received $45 billion in government assistance during the ongoing credit crisis. Citi said none of the money from the government investment was being used for the rewards.  EXECUTIVES  P&amp;G president steps down  Procter &amp; Gamble Co. said Susan E. Arnold had stepped down as president, leaving Chief Operating Officer Robert A. McDonald as the front-runner to be the next chief executive of the world's largest consumer products maker.  Arnold, who has been P&amp;G's highest-ranking female executive, and McDonald were both promoted in 2007 in a move some analysts perceived as setting up a succession for Chief Executive A.G. Lafley, 61. But Lafley has dismissed suggestions that he is ready to retire any time soon.  NEWSPAPERS  McClatchy cuts 1,600 more jobs  McClatchy Co. is shearing an additional 1,600 jobs in a cost-cutting spree that has clipped nearly one-third of the newspaper publisher's workforce in less than a year.  The latest reduction follows through on the Sacramento company's previously disclosed plans to lower its expenses by as much as $110 million over the next year.  
