BUDAPEST, Oct 21 (Reuters) - Hungary did not scrap its treasury bill auction on Tuesday, but it sold less bills than planned and the forint slid again, signalling investors still worried by the country&amp;#039;s fate in the global financial crisis.    Hungary relies on external cash to finance its current account deficit and debt, and its markets have slumped far more than its contemporaries in the past two weeks as foreign investors dumped forint assets.    On Tuesday the currency slid another 2 percent to 276 versus the euro, and has now lost more than 14 percent since the end of August. Regulators again suspended trading in the country&amp;#039;s biggest bank OTP after it plunged 10 percent.    The bond market has seized up as liquidity dropped, raising fears the emerging Central European economy may find it difficult to finance its debts.    The government and the central bank have announced a raft of measures to boost markets but analysts say more is needed.    &amp;#039;None of these measures can solve the fundamental challenge of Hungary&amp;#039;s large external financing needs against the backdrop of much tighter global credit conditions and reduced demand for its exports,&amp;#039; Barclays Capital said in a note to clients.    The government debt management agency (AKK) cut its three-month bill auction by 5 billion forints on Tuesday but at least sold 35 billion forints ($169.5 million) worth of bills after scrapping another bill auction on Monday.    Traders said the auction could signal the government debt market has started to consolidate after the central bank announced measures including bond buying auctions and repo tenders to improve liquidity.    But they also highlighted the fact that the AKK had changed allocation rules and on Tuesday it accepted yield levels in a wide range, which would have earlier been regarded as off-market yields.    Bids for the three-month bills were accepted in a range between 10.00 and 11.60 percent and the average yield jumped to 10.61 percent from 9.98 percent at an auction held one week ago.    Under normal circumstances AKK would have rejected more bids as previously it regarded bids with yields 75 basis point below or above the average yield as off-market.    FIRM POLICY    It has become difficult to determine proper yield levels as the country&amp;#039;s secondary bond market froze up, and yields surged, in the face an evacuation of foreign capital.    On Tuesday bids worth 50.98 billion forints were submitted for the 40 billion forint offer, much higher than Monday&amp;#039;s bids of 10.4 billion forints.    The central bank accepted bids worth 30 billion forints at its first six-month repo tender on Tuesday.    &amp;#039;This (bill auction) is a pleasant outcome, it may be interpreted as a sign of consolidation ... the central bank&amp;#039;s repo tenders have helped the market,&amp;#039; a trader said.    The central bank kept its base rate unchanged at 8.5 percent at a regular meeting on Monday and pledged to maintain tight monetary policy in the face of the market crisis.    Governor Andras Simor said the bank had the tools to act if a weaker forint threatened its inflation target or financial stability but it was not justified to step in at the moment.    Simor reiterated the bank had no exchange rate target, and was watching long-term exchange rate trends.    &amp;#039;At the moment we believe it is not justified to step in,&amp;#039; Simor told public television on Tuesday morning.    (Reporting by Sandor Peto/Krisztina Than; Editing by Patrick Graham) ($1=206.40 Hungarian Forint)   Keywords: FINANCIAL HUNGARY/    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
