LONDON, Oct 2 (Reuters) - The European Central Bank will cut interest rates this year after President Jean-Claude Trichet said inflation risks were easing and that the bank considered a cut at this month&amp;#039;s rate-setting meeting, a Reuters poll showed.    In a survey taken after the ECB left rates on hold at 4.25 percent on Thursday, 46 of 61 economists said its main rate would fall to 4.0 percent by year-end, with a minority still saying the bank would wait until the first quarter of next year.    Economists said the chance of a cut by year-end was 75 percent -- well above the 30 percent polled last week. In that poll, the bank was not seen cutting rates until the first quarter of next year and only a handful of economists -- 13 of 81 -- forecast a cut by December.    Heavyweight banking groups including RBS, Citi and UniCredit were among those to change their calls after Trichet opened the door for possible easing even though the central bank only just raised rates to 4.25 percent in July.    The shift in forecasts moves analysts closer to financial markets, which have increased their expectations of a cut by the end of the year as turmoil from the financial crisis has spread, and have fully priced in another by March.    &amp;#039;It is clear that the ECB will be lowering rates and the main question is whether it will be in November or December,&amp;#039; said Nick Matthews at Barclays Capital.    &amp;#039;We think it will be next month.&amp;#039;    Euro zone inflation fell to 3.6 percent in September from 3.8 percent in August and will probably ease further in coming months as oil prices remain low after falling from a high of around $147 a barrel in July to $95 at present.    &amp;#039;We would not be surprised if they cut rates next month. But assuming we don&amp;#039;t see cataclysmic events they will try and stick it out till December,&amp;#039; said Mark Wall, chief euro area economist at Deutsche Bank.    But he said that by December the ECB would be playing catch-up with events and would have to cut by 50 basis points.    The poll showed rates falling to 4.0 percent by the end of the year, followed by three more cuts in 2009, taking them to 3.25 percent by the end of the year. Last week&amp;#039;s poll had rates bottoming out next year at 3.5 percent.    (For poll data click on)    (Polling by Bangalore Polling Unit; Editing by Patrick Graham) Keywords: ECB RATES/POLL    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com    ra    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
