           OK lets use some truths we all know to get an idea:   -The bank of england sets interest rates: WE here this phrase all the time, BOE cut rates on Thursday for example.   -What does this mean? 2 Things.   1) This is the rate it costs commercial banks to borrow from the BOE   2) This is the rate banks earn if they lend to the BOE      Today, operating as it does as the bankers&amp;#039; bank, it is to the commercial banks (ie the High Street banks) what the commercial banks are to the public.       Just as we may deposit money with commercial banks, so commercial banks in turn keep deposits with the Bank of England. The amount of cash that a commercial bank can buy up from the Bank of England to meet its customers&amp;#039; cash withdrawals is limited to the amount of deposits it has in its account at the Bank of England and/or what it can borrow from the Bank of England or from other banks.       Commercial banks borrow from the Bank of England in exactly the same way that individuals and businesses borrow from commercial banks.  In theory the BOE could then use commercial bank deposit and fractional reserve 9 times this amount, and lend it out to the other commercial banks.  It could do that today and solve the liquidity crisis.  It could also then collect interest on those loans and make a profit which could then be spent on the people.  Ask yourself why it isn&amp;#039;t doing this.      Since nationalisation major player in the lending/money creation market. Its annual accounts reveal that its loans and profits are only a fraction of those of a major commercial bank such as Barclays, and it only holds a very small amount of government stocks, so it is no longer really lending to government either -- that function has largely passed to the merchant banks.  Again ask yourself why this is the case.      The answere:      Although owned by the state, the bank is largely controlled and run by those from the world of commercial banking and conventional economics. The members of the Court of Directors, who set policy and oversee its functions, are drawn almost entirely from the world of banks, insurance, economists and big business.     
