 Since oil and gas threads prevail around here, I think this post is appropriate. I recently received the following article from a private energy analysis firm called CMAI. Companies in the petrochemical and energy industry pay a lot of money for this sort of insight, and I&amp;#039;m passing it along here as an educational service. I do not have a link since it arrived in my inbox as a PDF, and it would probably be a bad idea to try and rehost it. Missing are some graphics and charts, but that doesn&amp;#039;t take anything away from the information outlined here. It&amp;#039;s relatively unbiased, but it does have some editorialized commentary. Consider a primer that will allow those interested to speak more intelligently on where we are now vis-a-vis &amp;quot;energy and the economy&amp;quot;, and where we might be in 2009. It&amp;#039;s long, but it&amp;#039;s not a hard read for anyone who has any familiarity with business concepts. I&amp;#039;m trying to break through the logjam of simpletons who repeatedly post crap like, &amp;quot;OMG BIG OIL IS THE DEVIL SUCK LOLZ!!!!11&amp;quot;. Probably a pointless effort, but maybe someone will surprise me.       Quote &amp;amp;raquo;      September 30, 2008  http://www.cmaiglobal.com  Vol. 8, Issue 9 ECONOMY &amp;amp; ENERGY OVERVIEW Copyright CMAI 2008 All Rights Reserved The World Economy  A destructive storm blew up in the financial sector of the United States in September. This development is now reaching a tipping point. Much depends on whether the massive remedies now proposed ($700 billion!) will or will not be successful. An average U.S. recession of 2-3 quarters must be contemplated. In the meantime most of the leading developed countries, including Japan, West Europe and others will continue to suffer some negative growth and mounting financial crisis.  To date the developing world, as exemplified by China, India, Russia, Brazil, Southeast Asia and the Arab Gulf is progressing quite well. Some slowing in response to lower exports is likely, but rapidly growing local demand should be an offset.  World GDP growth was again revised slightly lower to 2.0 percent in 2008 i.e. slow growth, and to plus 1.1 percent in 2009, which on a world scale means stagnation or a very mild recession. REGIONAL FOCUS: ASIA  Weaker global demand for Asian exports, high inflation for food and energy, and tighter global financial conditions will moderate Asian GDP growth for the remainder of 2008 and in 2009. In Japan, GDP growth for 2008 and 2009 is now estimated at below one percent per year; economic growth in the remaining countries within the Asia Pacific region is expected to slow from over 8.5 percent in 2007 to close to six percent in 2009. ENERGY  The crude oil sell-off intensified toward the end of September. Prices are expected to rebound slightly through early 2009 before declining to below $100 per barrel WTI basis by year end. U.S. natural gas prices traded in a fairly narrow range in September, and average prices for 2008 are now projected at just over $9 per MMBtu. Lower prices are forecast in 2009.  September 30, 2008\Vol. 8 Issue 9 Page 2 Economy &amp;amp; Energy Overview THE WORLD ECONOMY - Disaster and Probable Recovery in the United States Financial Sector. The long simmering malaise of the U.S. financial sector flared up again with a vengeance in September. This relentless process was triggered and partially caused by the collapse of an unsustainable boom in residential housing more than a year ago. However, the reduction of housing starts from 2.25 million to well below one million rate per year has already accomplished most of the necessary adjustment in the physical economy. By now it has become clear that the fundamental financial problem is the result of flawed business models; reckless conduct of affairs in the pursuit of outlandish profits and pay; and the nearly total failure of supervision by government agencies. The resulting devastation is of historic proportions. The foremost characteristic is that it is unprecedented and, therefore, particularly difficult to gauge its future course. We must remember this, when evaluating all forecasts, including this one. Frequent revisions will be required. The list of failures is overwhelming: The government takeover, i.e. the nationalization of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the holders of most mortgages. The transformation of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, the last two surviving large investment banks, into commercial banks, thus ending an era on Wall Street. The bankruptcy and/or forced sale of Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual and of Merrill Lynch, and perhaps also Wachovia. The travails of American Investment Group (AIG), the largest insurance company in the world with an $85 billion rescue package so far. Outside observers, such as ourselves, can only marvel at how so many well established, often centuries old, institutions could have failed so quickly and so completely. As we go to press a major rescue operation led by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board with close involvement of Congress is under way. The original proposal, which was narrowly rejected in Congress, involved the commitment of $700 billion dollars. Details of substitute terms are being discussed with renewed vigor. The evaluation of this massive move will have to wait a few weeks or months. Our present judgment is that success is more likely (e.g. 60 percent) than failure (40 percent). In any case a tipping point was reached just now: the future will be quite different from the past. The Main Forecast (60 % probability) Assumptions: 1. Moderate success of the U.S. financial stabilization effort by the end of 2008. 2. Only slight damage to the financial structure of other developed countries. These will be mainly in stagflation in 2009, but will cope successfully with their own financial crises. 3. Only moderate deceleration of economic growth in the developing world. Declining exports to developed countries will be largely offset by rapidly growing local personal consumption expenditures and by increased infrastructure building which is urgently needed. 4. Continuing moderate declines in energy and agriculture prices. 5. No natural or man-made disasters beyond what has become the norm in recent years. The Main Forecast The world so far is in a still quite mild recession. Preliminary data for the second quarter were surprisingly weak for a long list of developed countries including Japan, Germany, The United Kingdom, France, Italy, Spain and some others. Anecdotal data for the third quarter that ends today point to the fact that the down-trend continued to date and will likely continue into the future. For the U.S. the $168 billion stimulus package generated a temporary acceleration in the second quarter which, however, was recently revised down to a GDP growth rate of 2.8 percent. To date there is no finding of recession by the National Bureau of Economic Research, which enables the Administration, the Federal Reserve and some economists to avoid using the R word. We find that generally declining employment, industrial production, personal income and retail sales do mean a contraction whether or not they qualify as recession according to arcane requirements. Fiscal Policy is highly expansionary through the developed world. In the U.S. there is a new all time record Federal Budget deficit estimate of the order of $450 billion for the currently ending fiscal year. The next fiscal year, ending September 30, 2009, may reach as much as a $1,000 billion deficit if properly accounted for. The other developed countries also exhibit similar albeit less extreme tendencies and their deficits together may exceed another $1 trillion, for a world total exceeding $2 trillion in 2009. Such deficit spending in the short term represents classical Keynesian pump priming which is highly stimulative of the economy. In the current cycle this should mitigate the slowdown now and will contribute to the recovery about a year in the future. It is, however, very dangerous because it is highly inflationary. By late 2009 it is likely to create a quandary for monetary policy by creating a typical stagflation. Central Banks will be restrained from stimulating economic growth because that would be inflationary. Simultaneously, they could not fight inflation effectively because that would limit growth. Clearly, as soon as the current financial emergency is contained, probably by early 2009, strong moves to curb inflation will have to be made. Our previous forecasts of world GDP growth were again revised downward. We now project growth of about 2 percent this year and only 1.1 percent in 2009. The latter number represents stagnation or even stagflation in spite of the fact that we expect steady accelerating expansion during the year. On a world wide basis recessions have been registered as about 1 percent economic growth because of the great variety of conditions at all times on the globe. The Alternate Forecast (40 percent probability) Of the many possible deviations from the assumptions made for the Main Forecast, we constructed a scenario which, while less favorable, appears to be rational at this time. Assumptions: 1. The U.S. financial stabilization effort prior to mid 2009 is only marginally successful. It is stymied by party politics in Congress and is reduced in scope. 2. Other countries, both developed and developing are negatively affected by a more serious recession in the U.S. A mild downward spiral begins. 3. U.S. leadership declines as geopolitical disarray flares up in trouble spots like North Korea and the Middle East or Nigeria. These are major distractions from dealing with economic problems. 4. Confidence of the public and of the world leadership in governments and central banks declines further. The Alternate Forecast There is a rational view among some economists that the degree of weakness that exists in the U.S. and some other countries will have to spread to most of the globe. There is also an assumption ...
