WELLINGTON, Oct 23 (Reuters) - New Zealand&amp;#039;s central bank slashed interest rates by a record 1 percentage point on Thursday and said further cuts were in the pipeline as the global financial crisis threatens to exacerbate a local recession.    The move follows a round of rate cuts by central banks around the world earlier this month aimed at staving off a severe global downturn and brings the official cash rate to 6.5 percent, the lowest since January 2005.    The Reserve Bank of New Zealand said it acted because of financial market turmoil and markedly weaker economy.    Analysts had expected the cut, but noted the concern about stubbornly high domestic inflation and its effect on future cuts.    &amp;#039;We continue to see further easing ahead, but the market shouldn&amp;#039;t lose sight of inflation concerns just yet,&amp;#039; said Khoon Goh, senior economist at ANZ-National Bank.    It was the central bank&amp;#039;s third rate cut since July, when it reduced borrowing costs for the first time in five years from a record 8.25 percent.    The New Zealand dollar rose more than three-quarters of a cent to around $0.5924 after the rate decision. Short-term debt was sold off, with the yield on the benchmark 90 day bank bill, which moves inversely to prices, settling 13 basis points higher at 7.11 percent.    A poll taken after the decision showed 12 of 15 economists expected another 50 basis point cut in December, with betting on no change, one predicting a quarter point cut and one 75 basis points. The cash rate is seen bottoming at 5 percent by the middle of next year.    SLOWING ECONOMY    The RBNZ said it expected the economy to be slower than it forecast in its September statement, with businesses and consumers expected to cut their spending as credit becomes harder to get.    New Zealand has fallen into its first recession in more than a decade, but had previously been expected to show modest growth in the fourth quarter.    &amp;#039;We see a flattish economy for a while but not necessarily an economy that continues in recession. I think it&amp;#039;s more about the speed of pickup out of that,&amp;#039; Governor Alan Bollard told a news conference.    However, the lacklustre economy along with lower commodity prices would also bring down inflation back within the bank&amp;#039;s target 1-3 percent target band by mid-2009. It had previously forecast a return to the band by early 2010.    Bollard said it would take until early next year to get a clear picture of what was happening with inflation, and the timing and extent of rate cuts would depend on lower domestic inflation and the state of global markets.    &amp;#039;One shouldn&amp;#039;t necessarily expect, or anticipate, or build in future cuts of anything like this magnitude,&amp;#039; he said.    The annual inflation rate hit an 18-year high of 5.1 percent in the third quarter on higher food and oil prices, but that is seen as likely to have been its high point.    &amp;#039;We are reasonably confident that inflation peaked in NZ in the third quarter, but the Governor appears to need more convincing,&amp;#039; said RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong.    (Editing by Tomasz Janowski)    .    nt    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
