Oct 7 (Reuters) -     Oct 7 (Reuters) - Iceland took over its second largest bank on Tuesday and Russia announced an aid package for banks, seeking to limit damage from the global financial crisis.    Following are measures taken by national governments around the world on Tuesday:    ICELAND    Iceland used emergency powers adopted on Monday to dismiss the board of directors of Landsbanki, the island&amp;#039;s second largest bank by value, and put the bank in receivership, a minister told state radio    Shares in some of Britain&amp;#039;s biggest high street banks tumbled on news of the talks. Media reports said Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds TSB and Barclays were seeking 15 billion pounds ($26 billion) each.    The UK Treasury declined to comment, but said it would do whatever was necessary to maintain stability.    RUSSIA    Russia will lend 950 billion roubles ($37 billion) in subordinated loans to key banks, President Dmitry Medvedev said after meeting bankers to discuss what he called a &amp;#039;large scale financial crisis&amp;#039; [nL7689806].    Medvedev said the money could be split, with lending giant Sberbank getting up to 500 billion roubles, another state-owned banking major VTB receiving 200 billion roubles, and the rest split between smaller players.    The comments boosted Russian bourses, with the MICEX index adding 5.5 percent and RTS up 4 percent. The index lost 18 percent on Monday.    EUROPEAN UNION    EU finance ministers were debating a sizeable hike in minimum levels of bank deposit insurance across the 27 European Union countries.    Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan, in the dog-house with some European partners after Dublin unilaterally took radical steps to stabilise Irish banks, said a figure of 100,000 euros ($135,900) was an option, compared to minimum now of 20,000 [nL7293899].    AUSTRALIA    Australia&amp;#039;s central bank stunned investors with its biggest interest rate cut in 16 years -- a 100 basis points cut in its benchmark cash rate to 6.0 percent [nSYD359267].    The bank said the reduction -- twice the size analysts had expected -- was justified by a severe deterioration in the outlook for global growth, combined with a sharp rise in funding costs for banks.    The aggressive move sparked talk that this might be the prelude to a round of coordinated cuts by other central banks.    NETHERLANDS    The Dutch central bank said a court has decided to freeze all assets and liabilities of Indonesische Overzeese Bank NV (Indover), a unit of Bank Indonesia. IT said the court had appointed two administrators for Indover.    FRANCE    President Nicolas Sarkozy told his cabinet France was prepared to help French banks by acquiring a stake in their capital if necessary.    A government spokesman said Sarkozy told a weekly cabinet meeting he would not let French banks down and was prepared to help those that ran into difficulty &amp;#039;through a participation in the capital&amp;#039; of those banks [nPAB004385].    Japan&amp;#039;s Nikkei business daily said France has made a formal proposal to Japan and other Group of Eight (G8) countries to hold an emergency G8 summit meeting to deal with the financial crisis [nT12172].    (compiled by Dominic Evans; edited by Janet McBride)    Keywords: FINANCIAL/FACTBOX    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    cmr    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
