 Tue Oct 21, 2008 5:47am EDT  * Dollar funding costs fall in Europe, spreads narrow  * The Bank of Japan injects dollar and local currency funds  * ECB lends 305 bln euros in 1-week funds  LONDON, Oct 21 (Reuters) - The cost of raising dollar funds on interbank markets edged lower on Tuesday and the premium paid for that cash over government borrowing costs fell, suggesting the money market freeze continues to thaw.  The premium paid for three-month interbank dollar borrowing compared with U.S. government borrowing costs was indicated at its lowest in almost a month, and market participants reported a tentative increase in lending activity.  Dealers and analysts said aggressive central bank action to ease the interbank logjam in recent weeks is working, the latest being the European Central Bank&amp;#039;s auction of 28-day dollar and one-week euro funds, and FX swap line with the Federal Reserve.  The increased availability of interbank cash and myriad guarantees and pledges from policymakers around the world have flooded money markets with cash, which some banks are starting to lend out rather than hoard.  On Tuesday, Cazanove said UK bank Barclays (BARC.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) has been able to raise as much as 10 billion pounds daily of unsecured funding for periods beyond a week since October 8. That had fallen as low as 1-2 billion pounds, Barclays&amp;#039; house broker said.  But analysts&amp;#039; caution against calling the end to the crisis, pointing to the looming year-end period and the fact that currently some major banks are finding it easier to raise funds while others still find cash hard to come by and expensive.  Clearly, some banks would rather deposit any excess cash in the safest of all havens rather than put it back in the market. The ECB said on Monday banks deposited 228 billion euros in overnight funds at the central bank on Monday.  Overall, however, interbank rates are coming down and spreads are narrowing.  /...  http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idINLL719832...     &amp;quot;some banks are starting to lend out rather than hoard&amp;quot; ... We shall see. Things must be kept moving, but new investment needs to be directed at the right kind of development, and excessive purely consumption-oriented debt must be discouraged. Jobs, baby, jobs.     
