'Recent news reports have grossly mischaracterized an American International Group seminar for 150 independent financial planners held in Phoenix last week.  The financial planners are not AIG employees. In addition, the cost to AIG for this event was minimal. More than 90 percent of the costs were paid either by sponsors or by the independent financial planners themselves.  It is essential for AIG to conduct seminars of this kind to keep independent financial planners abreast of investment products and services including those offered by AIG. The financial planners are responsible for generating almost $200 millionin revenue this year for AIG as of September 30th.  On October 10, I issued a directive to all AIG employees and subsidiaries to reduce expenses and conserve cash, including cancelling all nonessential conferences or meetings, unnecessary travel and excessive overhead. Since then, we have canceled more than 160 events. We conducted a top-to-bottom review of all expenses of the Phoenix meeting in advance and found that it was consistent with my October 10th directive. This conference was approved because it provides the kind of communication we must conduct with the people who sell our products if we are to be successful and repay the U.S. taxpayer.'  American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions. AIG companies serve commercial, institutional and individual customers through the most extensive worldwide property-casualty and life insurance networks of any insurer. In addition, AIG companies are leading providers of retirement services, financial services and asset management around the world. AIG's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well as the stock exchanges in Ireland and Tokyo.  SOURCE: American International Group, Inc.  AIG Nicholas J. Ashooh, 212-770-3523 Senior Vice President, Communications  Copyright Business Wire 2008  Top stories  10:55 AM today  58 minutes ago  10:49 AM today  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2008 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
