A big sale may be in the works, as sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp. eyes AIG's Alico insurance arm.  Spurning opportunities to rescue Wall Street banks in trouble, China's primary sovereign wealth fund may go shopping for American International Group assets instead. China Investment Corp., together with Chinese insurers, is reportedly negotiating with AIG to buy one of its units. The mooted acquisition has provoked some wariness since both CIC and insurers were burned by previous overseas investments. Still, the deep-pocketed investors may find the insurance unit an irresistible bargain.  The CIC-led consortium is in preferential talks with AIG  (nyse: AIG -  news  -  people ) to buy a stake of up to 49.0% in American Life Insurance, also known as Alico, which operates in more than 50 countries, according to a Nikkei report citing unnamed sources. A deal could be worth between $5.3 billion and $10.6 billion. AIG reportedly wants to retain control of Alico by keeping a majority holding.  One potential member of the consortium is China Life Insurance  (nyse: LFC -  news  -  people ), whose chief investment officer, Liu Lefei, said on Nov. 12 that the company was eyeing overseas assets. AIG said in October that it wanted to sell Alico Japan, which provides more than half of Alico's insurance premium revenue.  Alico may be an appealing prospect, having had nothing to do with the collapse of AIG, which was brought to its knees by exposure to credit default swaps through other subsidiaries and required a $150.0 billion government lifeline. 'At least China Life and CIC may see it as an attractive business not significantly impacted by the credit crisis,' said Ben Lin, a Hong Kong-based analyst for Nomura Securities.  'After the experience of Ping An in Fortis, investors probably now see this with a bit more skepticism than optimism  [but] it all depends on what they buy and what price they pay,' Lin commented. Ping An Insurance  (other-otc: PNGAY -  news  -  people ) lost $2.3 billion from the October collapse of Belgian-Dutch financial giant Fortis  (other-otc: FORSY -  news  -  people ).  Chinese investors chose not bail out U.S. financial firms during the height of the financial crisis, letting their Japanese counterparts swoop in. CIC, having ventured into the U.S. financial market months earlier, when valuations were much higher, saw the worth of its billion-dollar stakes in Blackstone Group  (nyse: BX -  news  -  people ) and Morgan Stanley  (nyse: MS -  news  -  people ) humbled by the meltdown. 'They would be more cautious in some overseas investments so that's why they haven't acted for so long,' but they remain eager because they are sitting on so much cash, said Michael Tam, a Hong Kong-based analyst for South China Research.  In Hong Kong trading Friday, China Life shares closed up 64 Hong Kong cents, or 3.4%, to 19.64 Hong Kong dollars ($2.53).  
