The new media investment banking landscape has changed to favor smaller firms and boutique investment banks. The old model of investment banking, which requires a heavy staff of partners, managing directors, vice presidents, directors, associates, analysts, research departments,Fed Ex staff, assistants, graphics designdepartment for presentations anda line of Lincoln Towncars to take each banker down the block does not work the digital media landscape today. The majority of theseinteractive companies need specialized investment banking services not provided by the bulge bracked investment banks, such as capital raise, strategic partnership, business development, and sell side merger and acquisition advisory services. Digital media companies today need an investment banker that can help them structure deals with potential strategic partners as well as raise them capital and keep them abreast of the evolving M&amp;A market. Boutique investment banks like Peachtree Media Advisors, Inc., offer an array of these services that help entrepreneurs grow their business in a fast changing and increasingly competitive market.There are other digital media investment banking firms that offer similar services and have closed more transactions, but Peachtree MediaAdvisors is the only one thatfocuses solely on digital media. In addition, &#8220;my firm&#8221; (www.PeachtreeMediaAdvisors.com) only staffs up when projects come in. Lean and mean. In some ways, many boutique investment banks have taken on some of the characteristics of bulge bracket firms by keeping on a large support staff. This incentivizes them to take on projects that have little chance of closing, but the retainer payments will help alleviate some of their overhead costs. My boutique investment banking competitors typically brag about being a 20+ person firm&#8230;and rightfully so. They have the right tobrag about their overhead. I can also argue that there are only four to five &#8220;actual&#8221; deal people at these firms and they cover other sectors of traditional media that dilute their attention from interactive media. They are not able to provide thelevel of service that smaller and mid-sized digital media companies need. Also, in this economy it is easier to staff up when a project comes in. There is a plethora of financial talent out there looking to take on project work on a contract basis. It seems illogical from a business perspective to keep a large support staff on payroll. This is just one man&#8217;s opinion, butthe boutique digital media investment banking model needs to be as nimble as the companies they are representing. As for the bulge bracked investment banks, those daysof a20 person deal team on a $100 million transaction need tobe over. Really? I mean $50K monthly retainers are ridiculous.And moreimportantly, why would you want to takemerger and acquisition advice froman investment banking group that is competing with divisions that specialize in trading derivatives and mortgage-backed securities. These large investment banks are triple-dipping&#8230;taking TARP money, insurance money from AIG for the same assets and are now about to re-purchase these bad assets backed by government money. Wow. Huzpah. Why would a digital media company take advice from a Managing Director competing with those groupsfor fees?Digital media companies are going to get taken to the cleaners by these firms. My advice, stick to the boutiques. 
