THE 100 biggest listed companies face a $50 billion-plus hit to their balance sheet next year, as they will have to write-down the value of expensive assets that have lost value as the economy slows.  The most vulnerable are intangible-heavy sectors such as the media and big-hit acquirers such as Wesfarmers, Tattersall's and Rio Tinto, according to a study by brand consultancy Brand Finance.  The ASX 100 companies carried $221 billion of intangibles as of June 30, 2008, and $146 billion of that was capitalised goodwill from acquisitions, which is the intangible benefit from buying an asset. For example, the benefit of buying a company in a merger.  Companies write-down an asset as a goodwill impairment as its value falls, for example when they have overpaid as economic conditions worsen.  The Australianreports that while the share market fell16 per cent in the 2007-08 year, only 1 per cent of intangibles were written down.  Most notably, Foster's Group's $470 million write-down of its wine assets and insurer IAG's $342 million UK bath.  'This is extremely low given the deterioration in current conditions,' said Brand Finance managing director Tim Heberden.  Since then the ASX 100 index has tumbled a further 33 per cent.  'Further declines in economic sentiment suggest that significant impairments will be required during the current financial year,' Mr Heberden said.  'If current share prices are an accurate reflection of earnings expectations and risk, this would imply goodwill impairments of around $50 billion.'  'Rising markets were forgiving of M&amp;amp;A overpayments and anomalies in the reporting of intangibles,' the report says.  'The tide has turned and declining demand requires robust impairment reviews.'  According to Brand Finance, Tattersall's balance sheet rates as the most intangible-heavy, with 98 per cent of value attributable to goodwill and intangibles.  Herbicide company Nufarm ranks second on 93 per cent, followed by Computershare (91 per cent), Fairfax Media (89 per cent) and Tabcorp (87 per cent).  On a dollar value basis, News Corporation (publisher of the parent of news.com.au) tops the chart with $34.5 billion of intangibles and goodwill, followed by Rio ($26.7 billion), Wesfarmers ($20.8 billion), Commonwealth Bank ($8.3 billion) and Telstra ($7.2 billion).  In other words, the net value of the companies' physical property is worth more than their market cap -- for the time being at least.  Read more in The Australian.  
