The move comes as ANZ faces further legal headaches in the United States. A class action was filed against the bank and its top executives yesterday claiming the lender misled US investors by failing to disclose the risks associated with its $650 million exposure to Opes Prime.  The claim, lodged in a New York court, is for an unspecified amount of damages and names the chairman, Charles Goode, the chief executive, Michael Smith, and the chief financial officer, Peter Marriot, as defendants.  A Florida law firm, Vianale &amp;amp; Vianale, which specialises in securities claims, filed the suit on behalf of investors who bought ANZ's US-listed shares between March last year and last July.  The complaint alleges ANZ and its top executives violated US securities laws by 'disseminating materially false and misleading statements and/or concealing material adverse facts'. 'The lawsuit charges that ANZ failed to disclose its exposure to risk, given all the money it had lent to Opes Prime,' Kenneth Vianale, principal of the firm told the Herald. 'While the company said they were managing that risk, they weren't,' he said. An ANZ spokesman said the bank would vigorously defend the action. He labelled the lawsuit as incomprehensible because the issues surrounding Opes Prime did not result in any material financial loss to the bank.  While ANZ's provision bill has built to nearly $2 billion over the past year, Opes Prime represents only a fraction of any losses. The bulk of write-offs are linked to other problem corporate exposures and credit protection against a series of corporate bond trades.  At home ANZ already faces at least two class actions from aggrieved Opes Prime customers, both of which are expected to play out over years.  But the bank could secure a significant reprieve because the Opes Prime liquidator, John Lindholm, of the insolvency firm Ferrier Hodgson, has agreed to re-enter mediation even though initial efforts at a settlement collapsed in October.  Mr Lindholm has previously demanded the two banks pay more than $300 million to resolve the creditors' claims, a sum they rejected as unrealistic. Details of the latest settlement claims remain confidential. Mr Lindholm has previously argued ANZ unfairly changed the terms of its share-lending contracts with Opes Prime just before the broker collapsed, bolstering its security when the company was already insolvent.  He also has accused Merrill Lynch of rewriting a charge with Opes that was made more than a year earlier but never registered.  Both firms have denied any wrongdoing.  The liquidator said mediation talks would resume 'in the interest of avoiding a protracted and costly litigation.' But if a settlement cannot be reached by the end of January, he said he would instigate legal proceedings against the banks.
