DUBAI: Major air and rail projects are among huge public sector schemes going full steam ahead in Gulf countries, underpinning local economies as the credit crunch takes a big toll on private businesses.  Power and water infrastructure plans are also in the pipeline as governments invest the vast revenues from high oil prices in recent years, offsetting a rapid scaling-down of private investment, particularly in property development.  After 20 years of under-investment, there is an absolute need to invest in key areas, like water and power projects ... These projects are likely to continue, said economist Monica Malik, from EFG-Hermes investment bank.  Gulf countries are spending billions of dollars on expanding their airports or developing new ones after their investment in infrastructure shrank during years of cash-shortage amid low oil prices in the 1980s and 1990s.  The six members of the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) have expanded spending in recent years in tandem with the recovery in oil prices, which hit a record of $147 a barrel in July this year before tumbling to around $40.  The GCC groups Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  Opec leader Saudi Arabia and gas-rich Qatar, in addition to the wealthy UAE emirate of Abu Dhabi, are likely to continue with a large proportion of their investment plans, Malik said, implying that these states face no cash shortages at the moment.  Saudi economist Salim al-Gudhea agreed that the kingdom, which has built huge reserves on the back of record oil prices, will not backtrack on its commitments to develop the mega-projects already announced.  The government has announced a commitment of ... $400bn for the next five years ... The government here is very careful when mentioning numbers, he said.  It seems to me there is a very strong political will not to slow down the economy, he added.  The Saudi economy was estimated by the IMF to have expanded by 3.5% in 2007 and was projected to grow by 5.9% this year.  Although the Saudi British Bank this month slashed its estimate of Saudi oil export revenues for 2008 to from $350bn to $287bn, this is still 40% above the 2007 record of $205.5bn.  Meanwhile, private investment in Gulf property development is in a critical state, mainly in the booming UAE city-state of Dubai which has pioneered a real estate boom over the past few years.  Areas that are most likely to see projects canceled or put on hold are property developments in Dubai, Malik said, echoing reports of a serious deterioration in a sector that until recently was the locomotive of Dubais rapid economic growth.  Developers may find it increasingly difficult to fund projects and there could be an increasing number of projects being delayed or postponed, said the Dubai-based Al Mal Capital investment bank in a report last month.  Emaar, the property group behind Burj Dubai, the tallest building on earth at around 700m, has seen its share price plunge 80% this year to stand at its lowest level since its listing eight years ago.  Rival Dubai developer Nakheel, promoter of several iconic schemes like three palm-shaped artificial islands, said last month it had decided to scale back its work and cut 500 jobs  that is 15 % of its workforce.  The $95bn Jumeirah Gardens plan, which was astonishingly announced in early October to coincide with the onset of the global financial crisis, is already being revised, said the government-owned Meraas Development.  At the same time, infrastructure projects in the fast-growing emirate are set to continue at full pace and the government may benefit from cheaper building materials amid falling private demand.  Dubai has committed itself to spending $3.3bn on the construction of two urban railway lines.  The Dubai Metros first service, the Red line, will be the worlds longest fully-automated rail link when it opens in September. The Green Line is scheduled to open a year after. Last week, Dubai awarded a $1.3bn contract to build a new concourse at its international airport  the busiest hub in the Middle East.  Despite speculation over Dubais ability to tap the international debt market, US bank Citigroup was reported on Monday to have extended loan facilities of $8bn to public sector projects in the emirate over recent months.  The citys rapid development and huge influx of expatriates over the past years have strained its infrastructure, making investment in key areas a must.  Its population is believed to have grown close to 2mn, although official outdated figures still put it at 1.2mn.  Things are different in neighbouring Abu Dhabi, where the property boom is likely to continue due to supply shortages, Malik said, contrasting with an apparent overbuilding in Dubai.  However, Kuwait said it has decided to reconsider an ambitious $130bn five-year plan aimed at turning the emirate into a business hub, which was scheduled to start next year. Falling oil revenues for Opecs fourth largest producer were cited as the reason.  AFP  
