NEW YORKExposure to domestic automakers and a stronger dollar might weigh on advertising companies in the near term, an analyst said as she lowered some estimates for  and  MondayWilliam Blair &amp;amp; Co.'s Meggan Friedman said Omnicom is unlikely to realize its anticipated $200 million in fourth-quarter project revenue, as fees from Chrysler -- which makes up about 2 percent of revenue -- are likely to suffer due to the automaker's financial woes. Chrysler's fees for 2009 are predicted to drop by 25 percent to 30 percent.  While Omnicom may be somewhat insulated from Chrysler's vulnerability due to some contract stipulations, the New York-based company may also be dealing with increased severance costs.  Late last week a report said Omnicom might be cutting up to 3,500 jobs, or nearly 5 percent of its global work force.  The projected layoffs, coupled with slowing global gross domestic product growth and reduced ad forecasts, prompted Deutsche Bank North America's Matt Chesler to cut Omnicom's fourth-quarter and 2009 earnings estimates on Friday. The analyst also reduced Interpublic's price target to $5 from $6, partly on weaker ad spending.  Friedman trimmed Omnicom's 2008 profit forecast to $3.16 per share from $3.22 per share, and reduced his 2009 estimate on the company to $2.76 per share from $3.08 per share.  Automaker trouble may also loom for Interpublic, which is exposed to General Motors through several agencies. While the New York- based company deals with GM on its Saturn and Saab brands, which the automaker is looking to concentrate less on, Interpublic may be able to capitalize on its work with the parent company, as GM looks to fix its brand relationship with U.S. customers.'And as Interpublic doesn't handle GM's U.S. media buying, we believe that the firm's potential balance sheet liability in the case of a GM bankruptcy is limited,' Friedman wrote in a note to clients.  The analyst trimmed Interpublic's 2008 earnings per share estimate to 40 cents from 41 cents and cut its 2009 forecast to 40 cents from 43 cents.  Friedman maintained 'Outperform' ratings on Omnicom, Interpublic and MDC Partners Inc.  
