When it rains: ANZ is facing a class action in the US over its Opes Prime exposure. Photo: Jim Rice  Eric Johnston  THE legal claims are mounting against ANZ and the fallout from its involvement with failed stockbroker Opes Prime is likely to take years to work through.  But few expected the shockwaves would be felt as far as Boca Raton, Florida, where a specialist US securities law firm has finalised its class action against the bank, in which it alleges that US investors were misled by management.  Among other things, the claim lodged in a New York court alleges that investors that acquired US-listed shares in the bank between March 2007 and July this year were kept in the dark about the risks associated with the bank's lending to Opes Prime.  At the heart of the claim is the sharp share price fall in ANZ's US-listed shares after the bank warned in July that its second-half bad debt charges would blow out to $1.2 billion, mostly as a result of the impact of a range of bad corporate debts and its exposure to a series of credit protection trades.  According to the claim documents, ANZ's failure to come clean about its Opes Prime exposure caused some investors to buy ANZ common stock at 'artificially inflated prices'.  The action so far involves just a single shareholder, Linda Levine. While others who may join the action are not yet known, documents filed by Ms Levine indicate the number could be in the thousands. However, a decision by ANZ to delist its US shares from the New York Stock Exchange in mid 2007 could limit potential claimants.  An ANZ spokesman said that, while the bank might have suffered reputational damage from the Opes Prime affair, the actual hit to the bank's balance sheet was immaterial.  One legal observer yesterday noted that US securities class actions were often easier to launch than they were to sustain and many were eventually pulled if they could not generate enough support from legal funders or a big enough number of shareholders.  National Australia Bank was subject to a US investor class action linked to its heavy write-downs on its Homeside mortgage business, which it sold earlier this decade. This was eventually thrown out by a New York court that concluded it had no jurisdiction over claims made on behalf of NAB ordinary shareholders.  In Australia there is precedent for shareholder class actions. The biggest was the recent $136 million payout to Aristocrat shareholders who claimed to have suffered loss as a result of the poker machine manufacturer allegedly overstating profits.  Closer to home, it is the former customers of Opes Prime that are putting the legal heat on ANZ. One, backed by litigation funder IMF, is seeking up to $150 million from ANZ. A second, backed by law firm Slater &amp;amp; Gordon, is claiming up to $100 million.  Both actions are expected to take years to reach a conclusion and both are centred on the nature of the lending agreement between ANZ and the failed stockbroking firm.  Meanwhile, Opes Prime liquidator John Lindholm has threatened legal action if the latest mediation efforts fail to secure a result in the next month.  Outside Opes Prime, ANZ faces a variety of high-profile claims. The bank is being sued by former senior executive Steve Targett.  It also faces a hefty payout, having last year breached US regulations by becoming a party to transactions involving such countries as Iran and Cuba, which are subject to US trade embargoes.  Banks are not afraid of using their legal muscle to achieve an outcome and at the same time can be ferocious combatants when taken to court.  However, it is believed that new ANZ chief executive Mike Smith regards the high-level legal wranglings as becoming too much of a distraction for the bank's management and has been more open to settlement in many long-running cases.  Rather than making any admissions of guilt, this strategy is regarded as more cost effective than having the bank take up management and board time and legal resources over many years.  
