Compiled for Reuters by Media Monitors. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. THE AUSTRALIAN (www.theaustralian.news.com.au) Australian miner OZ Minerals has been given until February 27 to refinance two loans worth US$560 million, after lenders extended the loans for two months. It is believed several of the company's banking syndicate have indicated they will not grant an extension beyond this date. OZ's chief executive, Andrew Michelmore, said the extension gives the miner a reasonable amount of time to refinance the debt and allows the company to 'work through any asset sales sensibly.' Page 19. - - - - Investors in the United States (US) have launched a class action against Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ) over the fallout from the collapse of Australian stock broker and margin lender Opes Prime. US law firm Vianale and Vianale allege 'ANZ failed to adequately disclose the range of risks arising from its loans to Opes Prime' to buyers of the bank's American depositary receipts. ANZ is also facing legal action in Australia. The bank says it will be 'vigorously defending' itself against the actions. Page 19. - - - - Australian eyecare company Vision Group yesterday said the company had received a number of takeover offers, which had led to shares in the company rising A20 cents to A62 cents, an increase of 48 percent. Vision's chairman, Shane Tanner, said the offers, from both trade and private equity investors, were non-binding and dependent on the company passing due diligence scrutiny. Vision operates clinics which provide opthalmic treatments for conditions such as cataracts and glaucoma, as well as laser eye surgery. Page 21. - - - - Major investment banks say coal and iron ore production in Australia may be reduced by up to 40 percent during the next year, cutting company tax revenues to the Federal Government. Deutsche Bank's co-head of natural resources, John MacKinnon, said the expected fall in sales is due to the 'major round of steel production curtailment' which began in late October. Mr MacKinnon also said the sector was feeling the effect of the tighter credit conditions as banks seek to avoid risk. Page 21. - - - - THE SYDNEY MORNING HERALD A rescue package that may result in Chinese investors taking a stake of more than 40 percent in Mount Gibson Iron has been approved by the Australian mining company's shareholders. The A$162.5 million package was approved by shareholders at a general meeting in Perth, Western Australia, on Tuesday. In October most of the troubled iron ore miner's steel mill customers defaulted on sales agreements, making the bail-out necessary as the company required further cash. Page 23. - - - - Coal seam gas company Arrow Energy has moved closer to fulfilling its plan to supply the world's first coal seam gas export project. Arrow yesterday announced it had moved towards the partial completion of a deal worth more than A$700 million with Shell, and said it had already received approximately A$315 million of the A$660 million which Shell has agreed to pay for 30 percent of Arrow's domestic gas reserves and 10 percent of its business, Arrow International. Page 23. - - - - The annual report of agribusiness investment manager Timbercorp has revealed the company paid non-executive chairman Rod Fitzroy A$744,000 to terminate a five-year consultancy agreement, on top of the A$60,000 Mr Fitzroy received for his role on the company's board and the A$400,000 for that year's consultancy. The agreement had only two more years to run, meaning Mr Fitzroy received almost all the fees he would have received if the agreement had run to its conclusion. Page 23. - - - - BT Investment Management (BTIM) has revealed it received an A$11 million management fee from its global return fund last year, despite outsourcing the fund's investment decisions to United States firm Grosvenor Capital Management. BTIM, controlled by Westpac Banking Corporation, also froze investor redemptions from the fund in the week before Christmas, even though investor's money had been placed in a fund, run by Grosvenor, which has not stopped redemptions. Page 24. - - - - THE AGE (www.theage.com.au) James Packer is believed to be close to selling his Consolidated Pastoral Company for around A$425 million to British private equity firm Terra Firma. Consolidated Pastoral is Australia's second-largest cattle owner, with 16 properties. The deal will also allow the current managing director of the company, Ken Warriner, to retain his current 10 percent holding. Mr Packer is also rumoured to be looking to sell his remaining 38 percent stake in Consolidated Media Holdings. Page B18. - - - - Australian mining giant BHP Billiton, which is currently building a A$4.8 billion alumina refinery in Guinea, says it has not yet spoken to the military junta which took over the West African nation on December 23. The junta has cancelled all mining contracts in the country. BHP is building the project in partnership with Global Alumina, and it is expected to produce 3.3 million tonnes when it starts, which may rise to 5.4 million tonnes in the future if a third processing line is added. Page B21. - - - - Shareholders in Babcock &amp;amp; Brown Communities (BBC) have agreed to cut the retirement village operator's ties with investment bank Babcock &amp;amp; Brown (B&amp;amp;B). Shareholders at the company's annual meeting also agreed to a recapitalisation plan from Lend Lease, which will inject A$195 million into BBC, giving Lend Lease a 43.2 percent stake. The meeting also voted to change the name of the business to Lend Lease Primelife to signal that B&amp;amp;B is no longer involved in the company's management. Page B21. - - - - Eastern Star Gas (ESG) yesterday said it had received a number of expressions of interest in both the company and its assets during the past year. The coal seam gas explorer made the statement in response to a query from the Australian Securities Exchange as to why the company's share price had risen in recent days. ESG said that although there is increased interest in the New South Wales coal seam gas sector, 'none of these approaches has resulted in a firm proposal being made.' Page B21. - - - Keywords: DIGEST AUSTRALIA BUSINESS ... Keywords: DIGEST AUSTRALIA BUSINESS (Sydney Newsroom +61-2 9373 1800; sydney.newsroom@reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
