ANZ Bank is being sued in a US class action that alleges it failed to adequately disclose risks from loans to failed margin lender Opes Prime.  The Florida-based law firm of Vianale &amp;amp; Vianale LLP has filed the suit on behalf of purchasers of ANZ's American Depositary Receipts between March 2, 2007, and July 27, 2008, it said in a statement.   The complaint alleges ANZ and its top executives violated US securities laws. 'ANZ really didn't explain in its public filings its exposure to Opes Prime,' Kenneth Vianale, principal of the firm, said. 'Eventually the truth came out, and while the company said they were managing that risk, they really weren't.' Hundreds to thousands of claimants may come forward, he said.   Bank spokesman Paul Edwards said: 'The Opes Prime matter is subject to a range of legal actions that we will be vigorously defending.' The filing of the action in the Manhattan Federal Court caps a turbulent year for ANZ which has incurred reputational and financial damage from a string of corporate collapses and troubled loan exposures.   The US case is the latest legal move against ANZ over Opes Prime, following similar court actions initiated by Australian investors this year. ANZ and the administrator of Opes Prime are also locked in court disputes.   While the Opes Prime fiasco has , ANZ has also been forced to overhaul its risk management procedures following contraventions of US trade sanctions.   As revealed in BusinessDaily, the bank is facing a $30 million fine from the US Treasury Department for facilitating banking transactions in countries such as Iran and Cuba.   BusinessDaily believes that ANZ will also be penalised for financial transactions between disgraced wheat marketer AWB and the former Iraqi regime of Saddam Hussein.   Opes Prime attracted customers by offering cheap loans to buy shares in small companies that fell outside Australia's benchmark index, something larger brokerages were less inclined to do.   The shares were transferred to ANZ and Merrill Lynch as collateral. When Opes Prime failed in March, lenders including ANZ seized the shares to recoup losses.   ANZ sacked eight workers in August after an investigation into the bank's lending to Opes Prime.   In October, ANZ more than tripled bad loan provisions for 2008 to $1.95 billion.   ANZ shares lost 39 per cent over the period specified in the suit, and have tumbled 44 per cent this year. 
