COVER: Is the Party Over? (All overseas editions). Middle East Regional Editor Christopher Dickey reports that the economic meltdown has come to Dubai, the city-state in the United Arab Emirates that, more than any other place on earth, is the creation of worldwide commerce. But now, the global economy is imploding and Dubai is feeling it. Dickey examines how the ripple effects of the current crisis keep spreading and their impact on the region. Foreign workers are already being sent back to their homes. Skyscrapers are standing unfinished, their skeletons baking in the sun. For the past decade at least, real-estate speculation has been the national sport. The price of houses and apartments, many of them not yet built, rose by 43 percent in the first quarter of this year alone. Today, among many other holdings, Dubai owns a 43 percent share in NASDAQ OMX and a 20.6 percent share in the London Stock Exchange. Nobody was ready for the plunge in prices over the past four months that has taken oil down to little more than a third of its price last summer. Dubai turned out to be 'insulated [but] not isolated,' says Mary Nicola, an economist with Standard Chartered Bank.  POINT OF VIEW: Zachary Karabell. Too Big to Fail. Karabell, president of RiverTwice Research, writes that although Dubai's economy, fueled by high oil prices and easy credit, has been hit hard by the same global contraction that has already hurt much of the world, reports of Dubai's demise are premature. 'First off, Dubai is just too big to fail,' he writes. 'It is the second- largest economy in the United Arab Emirates and retains the backing of the largest, Abu Dhabi, which holds massive oil reserves of nearly 100 billion barrels and has a sovereign wealth fund in excess of $1 trillion.' He writes that it's never been clear exactly how much of the boom in Dubai was subsidized by Abu Dhabi or if Dubai did it all on their own. 'Whatever the truth, Dubai is too important to the U.A.E for its leaders to let it fall.'  NATO in the West Bank. Jerusalem Bureau Chief Kevin Peraino reports that a recent proposal to deploy NATO forces in the West Bank as part of any Obama-era peace deal is quickly gaining advocates in Washington and the Levant. Former U.S. national-security advisers Brent Scowcroft and Zbigniew Brzezinski both recently endorsed the idea. The president-elect's nominee to head the National Security Council, Gen. James Jones, is also said to favor such a force. Israelis and Palestinians have raised tepid protests, but even they seem to be realizing increasingly that a strong international presence will be critical if any deal is to be struck -- and if it's to stick.  Germany's Frau Nein. European Economics Correspondent Stefan Theil reports on German Chancellor Angela Merkel's actions in response to the worst global recession in decades. In Washington, London and Beijing, governments are taking the line that this downturn requires extraordinary policies, and have passed a plethora of spending programs they say will help their citizens and companies weather the recession. The Germans lead a much smaller group of countries, including Poland and Denmark, that don't deny the depth of the crisis, but weigh the costs of spiraling government outlays higher than their possible benefits. What is certain is that this isn't just a dispute over the effectiveness of policy. It has turned into a fight over influence and money, pitting Merkel and her allies against the leaders of France, Britain and Italy, who are calling for German help (and treasure) for a more muscular European response.  How the West Won Ukraine. Moscow Bureau Chief Owen Matthews and Special Correspondent Anna Nemtsova report that although Ukraine will likely not be allowed entry into NATO, polls show that Ukranians simply do not much care about NATO membership. They have their eye instead on a far bigger prize. Close to 50 percent of Ukranians, and all the major political parties, now favor joining the European Union. If this trend continues, it would represent a fundamental shift in Ukranian thinking.  No Fanning the Flames. Special Correspondents Jason Overdorf and Sudip Mazumdar report that last week, when U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited India, thousands of Indians took to the streets of Mumbai, Delhi and other cities to protest. Yet, while there were a few scattered chants of 'Death to Pakistan,' the marchers who carried roses, candles and posters, directed most of the ire not at India's perennial enemy, the terrorists, or the ruling Congress party. Their anger was reserved for India's politicians in general. The protestors' slogan: 'Enough is enough.'  Thailand Slides Toward Civil War. Hong Kong Bureau Chief George Wehrfritz and Contributor Jamie Seaton report that in Thailand, after antigovernment demonstrators finally ended their weeklong occupation of Bangkok's two airports, stranded travelers started their journeys home. But for Thailand's citizens, its politicians, its business community and its foreign investors, nothing concrete has been resolved. Political extremism is mounting, and a frightening new phrase has slipped into the political lexicon: civil war. And it's a uniquely Thai version, featuring extreme political violence and dividing the nation into rich vs. poor, urban vs. rural, north vs. south and pro- vs. antiglobalization.  WORLD VIEW: End of the Line for Islamabad. Newsweek International Editor Fareed Zakaria writes that if the Mumbai attacks were India's 9/11, it's response is quite different from the United States in the weeks following that event. Much of the debate among Indians has focused on their government's lack of preparedness, poor intelligence, and bungling response, but the Indian government has not rushed to war. 'The one country that could do more than any other to change the military's mind-set is America.'  THE LAST WORD: Jiang Jianqing, ICBC's chairman. Jiang Jianqing, chairman of the world's largest commercial lender in China and one of the world's biggest financial institutions, discusses the economic future of China and the world. When comparing our current financial crisis to that of 1998, he says, 'No two crises are alike, but there are common roots. In 1998, there was a lot of talk about the emerging markets not managing risk well. Now, it seems the U.S.-a market we thought was very mature and well developed-has not managed risk. The key point [in both cases] is greed.'  
