- Pacific Coast Bankers Bank (PCBB), one of the nations leading bankers banks, announced that Eric Davis, a technology executive with more than 20 years of experience, has been appointed Chief Information Officer and Senior Vice President.   As Chief Information Officer, Davis will oversee all of PCBBs technology operations and infrastructure, and he will also serve on PCBBs management team.   Eric Davis is a very talented technology executive whose leadership and insight will help PCBB remain at the forefront of innovation, said Steve Brown, President and Chief Executive Officer of PCBB. Eric understands the needs of bankers based on his extensive experience in financial services. Erics management experience will be a valuable asset to the executive management team as we continue to execute our strategy of fulfilling the needs of community banks across the United States.   Prior to joining PCBB, Davis worked for Wells Fargo Bank for 11 years in a series of technology positions. Most recently, he served as CTO of the banks Corporate Finance Division and was responsible for the groups information and reporting systems. Earlier in his career, Davis worked for Bank of America and Citibank. Davis has an MBA from Saint Marys College and a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and computer science from Brigham Young University.   About Pacific Coast Bankers Bancshares Pacific Coast Bankers Bancshares (PCBB) is the holding company for Pacific Coast Bankers Bank and its broker-dealer, Banc Investment Group (BIG). For over a decade, PCBB has been one of the fastest growing financial services companies dedicated to serving the needs of more than 4,000 community banks across the country. PCBB provides its services with a highly personalized touch and is a leader in the community banking industry. PCBB provides a suite of innovative products and services, including loan participations, cash management, international payments, federal funds, capital markets products, consulting services and bank organizational support across the country. For more information, call 415.399.1900, or www.pcbb.com. 
