-- Marie-Angie Vassallo has joined the agency as Regional Account Director. She most recently spent three years at Conill Advertising, part of Saatchi &amp;amp; Saatchi, as Management Supervisor and team leader on Procter &amp;amp; Gamble's Pampers, Head &amp;amp; Shoulders and Olay for the Hispanic market and contributed to the Metlife, Sunny D and Johnson &amp;amp; Johnson Merck/McNeil pharmaceutical accounts. Earlier, she spent four years as Account Manager at The Vidal Partnership overseeing Wendy's retail account, its first ever national Hispanic advertising effort. She is a graduate of Georgetown University.   -- Ana Franco has joined the agency as Account Director. She spent the last year as Account Director at Rapp Collins, New York, overseeing the relationship marketing and online efforts of pharmaceutical brands, Vytorin and Zetia. Earlier, she worked at the Bravo Group, Y&amp;amp;R, New York, as Group Account Director on the Wyeth and AstraZeneca business. Ms. Franco has held senior account management positions at McCann Erickson, Barcelona; LatinWorks Marketing, Austin, Texas; Ogilvy and Ogilvy One, Miami; Ogilvy Bassat, Madrid and FCB Tapsa, Madrid. She is a graduate of the Universidad Complutense in Madrid and holds an MBA from the Universidad de Barcelona.   Alain Groenendaal said, 'Marie-Angie and Ana are tremendous talents and we are proud to welcome them to the exciting new team we are building at Winglatino. They have worked with many of the world's premier companies leveraging brand vision, strategy and creativity into powerful integrated communications.' ABOUT WINGLATINO  Winglatino, a premier full-service marketing communications agency primarily focused on the US Hispanic market, ranks among the largest in its sector. Headquartered in New York, the agency also has an office in Miami. Working with many of the foremost corporations in America, including Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Goya and US Bank among others, Winglatino builds leading brands among Hispanic consumers in new and surprising ways.  Winglatino is an agency of Grey Group which ranks among the largest global communications companies. Its parent company is WPP (Nasdaq: WPPGY).  SOURCE Grey Group  CONTACT: Owen J. Dougherty, Grey Group, +1-212-546-2551
