The Times PHORM SURGES ON TRIAL SUCCESS Phorm's shares rocketed more than 40 per cent after the group successfully completed a trial of its targeted advertising technology with BT. Results of the trial, which monitor the internet usage of up to 10,000 customers of BT over the past three months, will be analysed by both parties, although BT has revealed that it expects to deploy the technology. Shares in Phorm, which is hopeful of confirming a contract with BT in late 2009, increased 82.5 pence to reach 282.5 pence. TECHNOLOGY Computer game company Eidos, formerly known as SCi Entertainment, has announced Time Warner, the U.S. media and entertainment group, has bought ten million shares in the business. The amount means Time Warner has upped its stake in the company to 19.9 per cent. RETAILING Petrol station operator GNE has said it would not pay a previously announced special dividend as it aimed to convert itself into an investment company in the technology sector. After it sold Petrol Express, its main operating subsidiary, in October, GNE had said it would pay a special dividend of 150 pence per share. However, it has now been approached by an investor group which plans to convert GNE into an investment company. The Daily Telegraph AVIVA BOSS WARNS OF TOUGH FIRST QUARTER According to Andrew Moss, the chief executive of Aviva, the biggest insurer in Britain, the first quarter of 2009 is going to be the most difficult of the recession. Mr Moss said: 'I suspect the first quarter of 2009 is going to be the most difficult in terms of the recession that we are now seeing in the mature economies of the West.' The group has conserved capital this year and put acquisitions on the backburner in case of 'better opportunities over the next 18 months.' In the first nine months of the year it was able to grow its business by 12 per cent, but steep falls in equity and bond prices since mid-September could impact insurers' capital reserves. JJB SPORTS SHARES DIVE AFTER GOLDMAN SLASHES FORECASTS Shares in JJB Sports plunged nearly 30 per cent after U.S. bank Goldman Sachs predicted losses at the sportswear retailer would be double its previous estimate over the year to January 2010. The bank announced it expects JJB to make a pre-tax loss of 13.2 million pounds over the year to January 30, 2010, compared to a previous estimate of a loss of 5.7 million pounds. Goldman Sachs slashed its pre-tax profit forecast over the year to January 30, 2009, to four million pounds from five million pounds. BAA MAY APPEAL FURTHER BREAK-UP BAA may appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal if the Competition Commission forces it to break-up two more of its seven UK airports in addition to Gatwick, which is being sold. It is expected regulators will reject frantic lobbying by BAA this week that it should be allowed to retain both Heathrow and Stansted as well as its trio of Scottish airports. In its 'provision of expected remedies', expected to be published on Wednesday, the Competition Commission is likely to stand by its position that BAA may have to 'sell two of its three London airports and also either Edinburgh or Glasgow'. The Independent LONDON HOTEL ROOM RATES FALL 5.6 PER CENT PKF Hotel Consultancy Services has revealed UK hoteliers are feeling 'the inevitable squeeze' from the downturn, with falls in room occupancy and average rates charged by hotels. The group said in November average room rates in London were down 5.6 per cent to 129.93 pounds on the same month last year, while occupancy dropped six per cent to 79.5 per cent. PKF said one-off factors were to blame, such as the closure of airports in Thailand. However, it also said the decreases were largely due to a fall in the number of business travellers visiting the UK. AUSTRALIAN EXECUTIVE AT BG INVESTIGATED FOR INSIDER TRADING BG Group has suspended senior executive Stuart Fysh following the launch of an inquiry by Australian authorities into alleged insider trading. The development comes in the run up of BG Group's alliance with Queensland Gas Company (QGC). The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (Asic) announced it is investigating Mr Fysh, an executive vice-president at BG Group and managing director of its Africa, Middle East and Asia division, on Monday. The action is being taken in relation to some alleged personal dealings in third party securities ahead of BG's announcement of a tie-up with QGC in February. TRADERS TURNED OFF DRAX BY POWER PRICE FEARS Drax, the owner and operator of the Drax coal-fired power plant, saw its shares lose 4.53 per cent to reach 516 pence on Monday. The fall came after Merrill Lynch warned about the potential impact of lower power prices. The broker revealed Drax was at risk as gross margins narrow further with lower oil and gas prices feeding through to power prices. Merrill also downgraded the stock to 'under-perform' with a 520 pence target price, from 'buy' with a 865 pence target price. The Guardian RESTRUCTURED PUBS GROUP SAVES 5,300 JOBS On Monday, nearly 5,300 jobs were saved after the bulk of Orchid, the beleaguered pub and restaurant group, was sold in a restructuring deal. Orchid was placed under administration on Saturday, only to be sold immediately to its existing management in a pre-pack deal. Administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers said the move helped keep the company, which owns the Sri Thai and Country Carvery chains, running with minimum damage or disruption. However, PwC announced roughly 1,200 jobs are still under threat because 48 of Orchid's 287 pub and restaurant portfolio were not included in the initial sale. DOWNTURN TO BOOST EQUITY RELEASE BY PENSIONERS Norwich Union predicted on Monday the number of pensioners unlocking equity from their home will double in the next five years as the economic downturn affects retirement income. It revealed the equity release market is expected to double from 1.2 billion pounds in 2007 to 2.42 billion pounds by 2013. According to Norwich Union, the number of people taking out one of the plans is likely to soar from 54,090 in 2007 to 115,617 by 2013, as the retirement funding gap increases as the population ages. This means that equity release could be one of the few sectors to receive a boost from the current economic turmoil. CAR DEALER'S SHARES FALL 28 PER CENT AS IT LOOKS AHEAD. Inchcape, the car retailer, has warned the turmoil in the global automotive industry means its performance in 2009 will be 'significantly' below its previous expectations. Andre Lacroix, chief executive, said on Monday: 'Despite weakening trading conditions globally, we expect to report underlying results for 2008 in line with our precious expectations. The unprecedented and rapid downturn faced by the car industry around the world will impact our results in 2009.' The group saw its shares plummet 20 pence to reach 50.75 pence. The car retailer's downbeat news came as the US and UK governments considered proposals to help their car industries. Prepared for Reuters by Durrants Keywords: PRESS DIGEST BRITISH BUSINESS PRESS DEC 16 COPYRIGHT Copyright  
