 GERARD RYLE  TWO of Australia's biggest financial institutions are offering compensation to victims of the Firepower scandal in an apparent attempt to head off a class-action lawsuit.  Those affected bought their shares in the fraudulent fuel pill company through financial planners linked to Financial Services Partners, owned by ANZ Bank and ING.  About $10 million worth of stock was sold through the financial planners on the false premise that Firepower would deliver huge windfalls after it listed on London's secondary stock exchange. At the centre of the optimism was a fraudulent claim by Firepower that it had invented a pill which could dramatically improve fuel consumption and decrease toxic emissions in motor vehicles.  Financial Services Partners has since been dragged into an ASIC investigation of Firepower and has suspended the five financial planners who sold the shares, saying they should never have been sold because they were not on the firm's approved product list.  It is now offering to repay between 20 and 35 per cent of clients' losses, but only if they desist from joining a class action lawsuit being taken against the firm.  Financial Services Partners declined to comment on the offer other than to say it was 'talking with investors on a case-by-case basis to determine their circumstances and to address any concerns or issues that may arise'.  Paul Rainford from IMF (Australia), which is funding the legal action on behalf of more than 400 Firepower shareholders, said the motivation for the move was clear. 'Different offers are being made to different clients and some clients are being offered nothing at all,' he said.  Mr Rainford said clients were being told that the insurer for Financial Services Partners had refused cover because the Firepower investment was not on an approved list. But he said it would difficult for Financial Services Partners to suggest that the Firepower share sales were not authorised when one of the financial planners selling them was one of the company's own directors. Two were part-owners of Financial Services Partners, he said.
