 positions in the fourth quarter, mainly in the U.S., Western Europe and Japan. The cuts are expected to save $170 million in 2009, and are in addition to the 1,000 jobs eliminated in the third quarter ended Sept. 30.   Investors were displeased, driving down shares $2.47, or 4.1 percent, to $57.38 even as the broader markets surged, with the Dow Jones industrial average up nearly 300 points. 3M shares, which traded at $88.70 a year ago, have rebounded only slightly since bottoming at a 52-week low of $50.01 in October.   Chief Financial Officer Pat Campbell told analysts Monday at a presentation in New York that 3M is looking at 500 additional job cuts that will primarily affect the company's international business. 'We're still working on possibly more depending upon business conditions,' he added. The Maplewood, Minn.-based manufacturer now expects earnings per share for 2008 will range between $5.10 and $5.15, down sharply from its previous estimate of $5.40 to $5.48 and well below Wall Street's $5.43 average forecast, according to analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.   3M forecast 2009 earnings per share between $4.50 and $4.95, also widely missing analysts' average estimate of $5.31 per share. Campbell said a 'rapid change in business conditions' hit 3M in November 'across geographies and across business units.' Circumstances this month are 'highly uncertain but it's hard to say that conditions will be much different than in November,' he said. Campbell offered a grim perspective of the future, citing a 'tighter acquisition screen,' minimal share repurchases and careful planning 'to make sure that we don't get our inventories out of whack.' George W. Buckley, chairman, president and CEO, told analysts that 3M is working hard to cut costs. 'We've been going through vigorous downsizing, better prioritization, deferring pay increases, eliminating temporary workers, eliminating overtime, taking furloughs, stopping some nice-to-do things and making policy changes that in the end will permanently reduce costs at 3M, so all of these things are very, very helpful to us,' he said. 3M has closed about 15 plants in the past 18 months and has drawn down inventory, cut capital spending and made other moves to cut costs. 'The guys are doing everything they can in their power to deal with the magnitude of the problem,' said analyst Nicholas Heymann of Sterne Agee in New York. 'They were caught off guard with the breadth and depth of the current slowdown.' As much as 80 percent of demand of 3M products is driven by the gross domestic productthe total output of all goods and servicesand the manufacturer is being hit particularly hard with the sagging economy, Heymann said in an interview.   Analyst Jeffrey T. Sprague of Citigroup said in a note to investors that 3M has exposure to several markets that are showing signs of a slowdown. He cited 3M's consumer and office, electronics and communications, oral health care and other markets.   In recent years growth has lagged and 'the sustainability of high margins and returns has become a concern,' he said. Sprague also said CEO George W. Buckley 'has no track record at a global company of 3M's size and complexity and will have to demonstrate that he can rejuvenate 3M's top-line growth and deploy its excess capital effectively.' Analyst David Begleiter of Deutsche Bank-North America cut his fourth-quarter earnings per share estimate to 90 cents from $1.26, and reduced his 2009 per-share earnings estimate to $4.65 from $5.65. He maintained his 'Buy' rating, saying that 3M will maintain 'superior margins, returns and balance sheet ratios' in comparison with its peers.   Analyst John E. Roberts of Buckingham Research Group cut his fourth-quarter earnings per share estimate to 95 cents from $1.25.   Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expect earnings per share for the fourth quarter to be $1.24.
