The pin-striped brigade at the Takeover Panel yesterday sent shivers down the spine of shareholders in Imperial Energy Imperial's shares immediately lost a 50p gain and were sold down to 754p on fears that ONGC could now look to renegotiate the terms of its offer or could possibly even walk away.   The close was 180p lower at 850p. Imperial's management was apparently still confident last night that ONGC would proceed but many investors were taking no chances and exited stage right.   Dealers said ONGC may now need fresh government approval for acquiring Imperial as the significant fall in the oil price has drastically slashed the returns on the 1.4bn investment. ONGC's 1250p a share offer gave the group a 10% internal rate of return when taking the crude price at $121 a barrel but with the price depreciating by over 20% against the dollar and the oil price falling to almost $40 a barrel, the rate of return has nosedived to about 4%.   Takeover bids and deals have been few and far between this year as cash-strapped banks have refused to lend any money to bidders during the worst financial crisis in over 70 years. The value of bids transacted so far this year is down 36% on 2007.   Dead cat bounce or not, dealers were delighted and relieved to see some blue on their screens for a change. Responding to Wall Street's late 259 point recovery on Friday and further 300 point rise yesterday, the Footsie forged ahead to finish 250.69 points, or 6.2%, higher at 4300.06.   The FTSE 250 jumped 263.24 points to 5948.77. President-elect Barack Obama took all the credit. His pledge for major infrastructure investment and the creation of at least 2.5m new jobs to help avert a deeper slump in the world's biggest economy gave dealers hope.   It certainly helped take their minds off Friday's worst monthly jobless statistics since   1974. Expectations were high too that US car makers would be kick-started by a multi-billion dollar US government rescue package.   Insurances found favour after the National Association of Insurance Commissioners gave the green light to several proposals submitted by the life-insurance industry aimed at lowering capital and reserve requirements. Giant Prudential  AIM-listed  Facing eviction from the Footsie tomorrow, oil services group John Wood slipped 8.1p to 155p and transport group Stagecoach  Down 45p at one stage amid gossip the international bank will soon be spending the lion's share of its recent 1.8bn fund-raising on an acquisition in India, Standard Chartered  Recent speculation has suggested Standard's boss Peter Sands has his eye on Far-Eastern assets at ABN Amro and Citigroup.   After three directors acquired a total of 781,585 shares at an average price of 23p, struggling department store Debenhams  Boosted by a prediction from credit card processing firm Retail Decision that 450m would be spent on online Christmas shopping as punters rush to get their orders placed in time for Christmas delivery, online retailer ASOS  Datacash rose 12p to 219p after signing a new contract with bookmaker William Hill  Lara Croft Tomb Raider computer games company SCi Entertainment eased p to 19p. Last week eyebrows were raised when 7.5m shares changed hands at 17p.   The company is believed to be in takeover discussions again with America's Electronic Arts, the world's biggest computer company. Perhaps EA has hoovered up some loose stock before agreeing terms.  Plethora, the specialist developer of products for the treatment of urological disorders, rose 3p to 21p on hearing it has raised 420,215 via a placing of 2.8m shares at 15p. It is also scheduled to receive 560,000 as an advance from a trade partner. The cash will help it work towards the commercialisation of its assets, particularly the development of PSD502, its treatment for premature ejaculation. see our latest here              
