THE competition regulator has waved through Commonwealth Bank's $2.1 billion move on BankWest, admitting the Perth-based lender would have found it tough to remain as an aggressive competitor.  Indeed, BankWest had been planning to 'significantly' scale back plans to open as many as 160 branches across Australia's east coast, as its British parent, HBOS, came under intense funding pressures, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said yesterday.  Approval for the deal followed CBA becoming the latest bank to tap investors for funds, with the banking giant detailing plans to bolster its balance sheet by raising up to $750 million through the issue of new shares.  Still, the raising  aimed at the early buyback of hybrid shares that are due to mature early next year  fell well short of expectations. Some analysts anticipated the bank would target as much as $2 billion to bring its capital ratios in line with its rivals.  CBA chief financial officer David Craig said it was prudent to bring forward the financing of the hybrid share buy-out 'given uncertain equity market conditions'.  Following Westpac's $2.5 billion institutional placement this week, fund-raising among Australian banks has now topped more than $8.3 billion over recent months, as they attempt to boost capital reserves to provide a buffer against credit market turmoil.  CBA is placing the latest new share issue with Merrill Lynch, which will price the issue over a 10-day window until the end of January.  Following the raising of CBA's tier one ratio  a measure of its capital strength  it will increase slightly to about 7.8 per cent. But this is below its rivals, which operate under a tier one ratio of more than 8.2 per cent.  CBA is planning to raise additional funds through the launch of a share purchase plan in February.  While it was not specific about the size, analysts are tipping CBA will raise more than $500 million, taking its tier one ratio to about 8 per cent, which will still lag its rivals.  The raisings by banks have largely come about due to investors demanding higher capital levels, 'rather than anything materially worse in operating performance', said Merrill Lynch analyst Matthew Davison.  Tier one ratios are sitting at their highest level in years and are twice the minimum levels required by bank regulators.  A stronger balance sheet provides a significant advantage in wholesale funding markets, which have stalled since the global credit crisis hit.  With some offshore banks curbing operations, Australian banks are topping up capital levels in anticipation of more business lending.  Meanwhile, in approving CBA's move on BankWest and its associated funds management business, the ACCC said the Perth-based bank's ability to compete had been derailed by the global market crisis.  The transaction, which still needs approval from the Treasurer, will consolidate CBA as the nation's biggest bank, dominating mortgages and deposits while the combined entity will count one in two Australians as customers.  CBA was able to swoop on the fast-growing BankWest business as shockwaves from the global financial crisis crippled the regional bank's owner, HBOS, which has put itself up for sale.  Following the deal, CBA will emerge with about 46 per cent of Western Australia's deposit market, substantially bigger than the next largest player, Westpac, which has about a 15 per cent share in the state.  
