Westpac has beaten Commonwealth Bank to the punch, launching a quick-fire $2.5 billion share placement into a rising market today to replenish its balance sheet in the wake of the St George acquisition.  Coming so hard on the heels of its dividend reinvestment plan where the underwriters have only just finished selling a billion dollars worth of stock, Westpac shares are somewhat depressed and the issue may prove a boon to institutions - the issue is not open to ordinary investors - should the market hold up.  As the banks compete heavily on cost of capital however the placement will up the ante on Commonwealth Bank which is yet to tap the market (apart from raising capital to fund its acquisition of BankWest) and has been thumped in the past two months on the expectation of an issue and in light of the valuation premium it used to hold vis-a-vis its peers.  But there's a better story in banking right now. The high deposit rort.  Looking at the range of three-month deposit rates on offer at the moment, some are as high as 6.5% yet the official cash rate is only 4.25% and 90-day bank bills (BBSW) are at 4.65%. March bills are just 3.26%.  Crying poor  Why the wailing then from the banks about access to funding?  Surely they are not crying poor so they don't have to pass on rate cuts to their customers?  If not, why don't they simply forget about retail deposits and issue 90-day bills into the daily BBSW money market and raise cash at 4.65% or sell March bill futures and lock in at 3.26% ?  This facility is open to all the majors and several other large banks such as Suncorp.  The answer is that banks offer high introductory variable or term rates to entice new business and effectively 'buy' other banking business such as credit card accounts, home loans, insurance products, travel products and so forth.  Most customers can't be bothered to shop around and have three different banks deal with their banking needs so after the honeymoon rate disappears the banks not only retain much of their initial deposit (at usually much lower rolling rates) but they gain the extra business mentioned above.  Bankwest was a champion at chasing new customers with their telenet rates, often pitched half a percent higher than the competition. Their success is the raison d'etre for the CBA takeover.  Keeping out the riff-raff  The one piece of information that Joe Public never gets to see is just how much of a bank's liquidity comes from deposits versus bank bill issuance. Lucky that; lucky for the banks that is.  When you are selling home loans at 7% and issuing bills at 4.5% you have a big fat margin even though the high headline term deposit rates make this spread look far tighter.  Yet if you are raising just 5% of your money that you lend to borrowers at these higher rates then one can easily make the case that official cash rate reductions cannot be passed on because the competition in securing deposits is fierce - especially after the Government guarantee.  The banks won't let on of course that 95% of their spreads remain intact.  This scam is only open to the favoured sons of the banking establishment however, and the big foreigners. Riff-raff like Arab Bank and Bank of Queensland can't issue their own paper in the BBSW market.  Meanwhile, Westpac is pitching its issue at $16 a share, or a 10.5% discount to the last traded price, 156.3 million shares or almost 6% of its issued capital.  
