Macquarie Bank may slash an additional 600 jobs, adding to the up to 200 it has already cut in Australia, as the finance industry shrinks for the first time in 13 years, according to the Finance Sector Union of Australia.  The worsening global credit crisis has seen local banks and brokerages fire 4821 workers this year, union spokeswoman Leanne Shingles said.  Commercial banks have made the deepest cuts, with ANZ Bank shedding 1000 jobs, while Westpac and its BT Investments unit fired 450 workers. Goldman Sachs has cut 10, Merrill Lynch 20, and UBS 50, the union said.  'We're certainly not immune from the fallout of the global financial crisis,' Australia Treasurer Wayne Swan told Sydney radio 2UE yesterday. 'You can see its impact now when it comes to employment in the financial services sector.'  The reductions are the biggest since the early 1990s, the union said, with the industry shrinking for the first time since 1995. Globally, some 200,000 financial-services jobs have been lost since July 2007 as losses and writedowns from the credit crisis approach $US1 trillion.  Financial services account for 7.8% of Australia's $1 trillion economy, the Investment and Financial Services Association estimates. There are about $1.3 trillion in funds under management in Australia, it says.  'Scaremongering'  A Macquarie spokeswoman, who declined to be identified, said the company had no comment on the union's projections. All units look at their staff levels 'constantly,' she said.  The union projects the merger of Westpac and St.George Bank will see as many as 5000 jobs lost, it said. That would equate to almost one in seven workers at the combined company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  David Lording, a spokesman for Westpac, said the union's forecast is 'mischief making and scaremongering in the lead up to Christmas.'  'We have made a commitment to Westpac and St.George that all customer-facing staff will be retained, because this merger is about creating a multi-brand strategy rather than a cost cutting strategy,' he said.  Lording said there will be some job cuts in back office and head office roles where there's duplication, though attrition will be used to reduce headcount where possible.  'The union should work constructively with us instead of putting out incorrect information before Christmas that unnecessarily worries people,' he said.  BankWest's plan to open 160 branches, adding 3000 jobs, is under threat after Commonwealth Bank of Australia agreed to buy the former HBOS unit in October, according to the union.  'We have said we will review the BankWest east coast expansion and will undertake that after we receive all the necessary approvals to proceed with the purchase,' said Bryan Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Commonwealth Bank in Sydney.  
