 over $6bn debt  13:33pm   Red Emperor in $14m potash project deal  13:17pm   CO2 Group in 50-yr deal with Newmont  12:39pm   Mining companies lay off 500 workers  11:49am   WAN up on editor-in-chief appointment  11:16am   Wet weather hampers WA harvest  Discussions between Centro Properties Group and its 23 financiers continued today over an extension to its $6 billion debt facility.  A Centro spokesman hosed down speculation that a debt deal between Australia's largest property investor and 13 banks and 10 US insurance company noteholders had already been done.  'We are continuing discussions with our lenders,' a Centro spokesman told AAP.  He said a report on The Age newspaper's website that an in-principle agreement between the company and its lenders had been reached was wrong.  Centro securities were placed in a trading halt on Monday pending an announcement about the outcome of negotiations over the extension of Centro's finance facilities that had expired on Monday.  An announcement from the company is expected before trading begins on Wednesday.  Centro stapled securities closed at 8.7 cents on Friday.  Centro Retail Trust securities are also in a trading halt. They last traded at 6.1 cents.  Centro has been in negotiations with the 13 banks and 10 US insurance company noteholders over their $6.01 billion debt agreement with Super LLC, a joint venture between Centro Properties Group and Centro Retail Group.  The Melbourne-based company had to secure an extension of its debt facility on Monday to avoid defaulting on its debt covenants and being placed into administration.  Centro owes $3 billion to eight local banks, $US1.5 billion ($A2.31 billion) to five US banks, and another $US450 million ($A695 million) to 10 US insurance companies, chief executive Glenn Rufrano, told shareholders at the company's annual meeting last month.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) is Centro's largest secured creditor, with $1 billion of Centro's $1.2 billion in total debt to the bank being secured.  National Australia Bank has a secured exposure of $750 million, and an unsecured exposure of $200 million, while Westpac has a secured exposure of $558 million.  ANZ Banking Group's secured exposure is $700 million and its unsecured exposure is $680 million.  After securing a series of short-term extensions to the debt facility since December 17, 2007, Centro was seeking an extension of at least 12 months to stabilise the company and would abandon distributions 'in the near term', chairman Paul Cooper said on November 28.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
