SAN FRANCISCO -- (Business Wire)  Presidio Bank, the successful Bay Area community bank that serves a variety of regional businesses and entrepreneurs, has named Steve Heitel, an experienced Bay Area banker, as President and a member of its Board of Directors. Heitel replaces Robert B. Leet, Vice Chairman of Presidios Board, who has served as interim President since June 2008.   Heitel most recently was President and CEO of Mid Peninsula Bank (Palo Alto), the $1 billion flagship of Greater Bay Bancorp. He also previously served as President and CEO of San Jose National Bank and as Executive Vice President of Cupertino National Bank, also part of Greater Bay.   Before joining Greater Bay Bancorp in 2001, Heitel spent more than two decades with Bank of America, heading that banks Bay Area commercial banking activities, focusing on middle-market businesses and their credit, deposits, treasury management, investment banking and trade finance needs.   Steves prior experience as an executive at three of Greater Bays largest and most successful community banks, combined with his strong commercial lending background at Bank of America, make him ideally suited to take on this leadership role as we continue Presidio Banks expansion in the Bay Area, said James R. Woolwine, Chairman and CEO of Presidio, and one of the banks founders.   His knowledge of the Bay Area economy, and his relationships with business and community leaders, will serve us well as we continue our focus on serving Bay Area businesses, Woolwine added. Since launching in San Francisco in 2006, Presidio has expanded into San Rafael, Santa Rosa and Walnut Creek, with an impressive financial track record. When compared to 23 other California community banks that also opened their doors in 2006, Presidio ranks first in loan growth and third in deposit growth, with no delinquent or non-performing loans.   Joining Presidio Bank was an easy choice for me, Heitel said. The banks strong capital base, impressive credit quality metrics and outstanding management team position us for continued success, even in this challenging economic environment. Our plans call for us to continue to support our local businesses, and to put dollars back into the communities where we live and work, he said.   Presidios approach and philosophy of remaining locally focused and locally invested cannot be understated, Heitel added. With a keen eye on the bottom-line, we are confident that investing locally and staying true to traditional banking fundamentals and industry benchmarks portends well for our growth and success in the future, he said.   Heitel is a resident of Redwood City and a graduate of the University of San Francisco, with a degree in Finance. Previously he has served on the boards of the San Jose and Oakland Chambers of Commerce, the board of the YMCA of the Santa Clara Valleyand a variety of other civic and non-profit organizations. ABOUT : Founded in the summer of 2006, Presidio Bank (PDOB) was the first new locally-owned and managed commercial bank in San Francisco in more than 20 years. With initial equity capital of $40 million, it was also the largest initial capitalization of a new bank in California history. Through its offices in San Francisco, Walnut Creek, San Rafael and Santa Rosa, Presidio Bank offers successful small- and mid-sized Bay Area businesses a comprehensive array of commercial banking products and professional services. Presidio Bank serves the financial needs of a variety of commercial customers, including non-profit organizations, real estate investors and developers, professional service firms, and their owners, partners, and executives. Presidio Bank is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Presidio Bank has its headquarters at One Montgomery Street, Suite 2300, San Francisco, CA 94104; telephone: 415.229.8400; www.presidiobank.com.   Contacts:  MacKenzie Communications  Janis MacKenzie or Andrew Bennett, 415-403-0800 ext. 16  jmackenzie@mackenziesf.com  Source: Presidio Bank
