REST Superannuation has revolutionised life insurance in super by introducing a 'life cycle' approach to its death cover - breaking away from the traditional fixed cost or '$1 a week' insurance model.  Almost one million active members of the $13 billion REST Super will be receiving cover designed to suit their needs and commitments at each stage in life - a radical move away from the low, fixed cost models and set level of cover favoured by most industry funds.  'It's a life stage approach for death cover based on the average REST member. So it's lower cover addressing the overinsurance problem earlier in life, that builds through ages 20 and 30 and is [then] higher through the 40s and 50s - matching member needs at different life stages,' said Damian Hill, chief executive of REST.  'It is based on members' needs, instead of how much cover is available at a fixed cost. It's not about focusing only on members' retirement, but on [their entire] membership with REST,' said Hill.  REST's new model is also built to narrow the gap between the overinsurance and underinsurance and has been on the works for just under two years, said Hill.  For instance, prior to this model, members were covered for up to around $93,000 from an early age until they reach 35.  The new venture will see young members receive less cover when they first join the fund, which increases as they age and commitments such as marriage, mortgages and children come into the picture. As members grow older and their commitments and responsibilities lesson, the cover tapers off.  The insurance is also flexible - members are given the choice of a basic package of death, total and permanent disablement (TPD) and long-term income protection cover. But they can also choose to mix these depending on their needs and budgets.  However unveiling the new product was not an easy feat and the fund has been working on the project for just under two years.  The fund's insurer AIG along with CHR Consulting and administrator AAS joined forces with REST to develop the new package. This is also good news for AIG, which was reappointed the group insurance provider for the $13 billion fund.  And so far, all their hard work appears to be paying off.  REST has been busy communicating the changes to its death cover since September via a dedicated call center, personalised letters and educational videos on its website. Its members in turn, have been engaging with the fund actively on their thoughts of the changes.  'We've had over 45,000 calls to our call center, we've had members seeking advice on their insurance, and over 50,000 members have hit our website to look at individual insurance,' said Hill.  
