HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- Keeping track of the widening casualties of the global recession in China is becoming increasingly difficult, but it is still worth watching for pockets of opportunity. Put deflating asset bubbles, steep interest-rate cuts and a 4-trillion-plus yuan stimulus package into the mix, and you can expect a lumpy economy at best. In recent weeks, China has gone from optimism it could escape the global slowdown to a realization its export sector would take a direct hit -- November exports are expected to have shrunk in value for the first time in seven years -- and finally, to worries the whole economy is on the floor. J.P. Morgan, in a new strategy note, pinpoints the 'collapse of the domestic housing market' for spreading the feel-bad factor around. Leaving aside the export sector, it seems intuitive that many of the industries that fed off the asset and property bubble on the way up will be spat out on the way down. One surprising new casualty of the economy is the jobless golf caddie. Mission Hills, the self-proclaimed biggest golf club on Earth and recent host of the World Cup of Golf event, is sacking 2,000 employees, or 20% of its staff, according to a recent Bloomberg news report. The club, which boasts 12 championship courses, is known for requiring a sizeable bank balance rather than a handicap to join its thousands-strong ranks of members in its airport-sized clubhouse. Notably, Mission Hills raised various fees earlier this year, pushing its top-tier membership prices up by a third to HK$1.68 million (US$216,000). These hikes might appear to be an opportunistic but understandable ploy to exploit surging asset prices -- but have they back-fired? It appears as if the swift reversal in the economy and in asset wealth means less golfers can afford the green fees, cart fees, caddie fees, etc., meaning less work for the caddies. Now Beijing will perhaps have to worry about unemployed caddies joining the ranks of the laid-off factory workers protesting in Dongguan. One gripe of the 400 or more golf clubs in China which have emerged in the last decade is that they pay a whopping 22.5% revenue tax on a game deemed bourgeoisie by the Beijing government. Perhaps if this were reduced and Mission Hills cut prices, more caddies would stay in a job. KPMG said in a recent study that golfers in China pay on average US$161 a round -- the highest in the world. It will not be surprising if the industry faces a rerun of Japan's experience, where a spate of clubs went bust in the 1990s after the Japanese asset-bubble burst. Another discretionary spending item that also geared up on the equity bubble is bar activity. One club owner in Beijing told me takings were down as much as 70% in recent weeks. On Shanghai's Bund last week, the bars were conspicuously quiet. A year earlier it seemed the only drink being quaffed was champagne. Nonetheless, while some parts of economy are clearly in trouble, there are pockets of strength and government stimulus measures to watch. The television advertising market, for one, still looks to be strong. At Central Television's recent auction of prime TV ad slots for next year, revenues increased 15.4% to 9.2 billion yuan. This appears to refute suggestions of a post-Olympic slowdown after coming off 30% growth this year. It is difficult to get direct exposure to this growth story, although Phoenix Satellite (HK:8002: news, chart, profile) should be a beneficiary. Last Friday it was elevated to Hong Kong's main board from the GEM market. The telecom equipment market also looks set for some good times, with reports that the long-awaited 3G licenses in China will finally be dispensed this month. We have heard this before, of course, but the urgency for stimulus may put the more than US$44 billion of spending on the fast track. Whether 3G will help any operators is unclear, but handset makers and vendors should benefit. Mainland Chinese vendors ZTE Corp. (HK:763: news, chart, profile) and Huawei are likely to get the lion's share of the spoils, with token contracts for foreign players. Another sector attracting attention is property, after the recent rate cuts in China. One thing to consider is that -- unlike debt-laden U.S. or U.K. citizens -- mainlanders do save, and it's estimated that 43 trillion yuan is on deposit in Chinese banks. Expect some of these monies to start looking for better returns as rates are cut. Property may be where much of those funds end up. In Shanghai last week, it was reported that sales of new homes jumped 36% in November over October. While more bad news is certain for equities, according to J.P. Morgan analysts say more bad news is certain for equities, but they highlight attractive valuations in mainland equities, with the MSCI China index now trading at 8.3 times earnings, and with an average dividend yield of 4.3%. The obvious caveat in this market of declining earnings is that these numbers may well look worse next year. Lastly, for the more adventurous, another option to keep an eye on is some bargains in discounted golf memberships. 
