SYDNEY, Australia - Australian non-bank lender Aussie Home Loans will buy GE-owned rival Wizard in a deal that includes the Commonwealth Bank of Australia acquiring four billion Australian dollars ($2.7 billion US) of Wizard mortgages. The price of the deal, announced Wednesday by all three companies, was not disclosed. The sale comes as GE Money, a unit of the Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co., pulls out of the mortgage lending business in Australia and New Zealand and shrinks its GE Capital business worldwide because of the global financial crisis. 'The extreme volatility and greatly increased cost of funds on the global and local wholesale markets have made this withdrawal from the home lending business necessary,' GE Money Australia and New Zealand Chief Executive Mike Cutter said in a statement. The Wizard sale was consistent with GE's strategy of reducing GE Capital to approximately 30 per cent to 40 per cent of GE's global business, he said. Under the deal, Aussie Home Loans will acquire the Wizard brand, a franchise network of 160 outlets Australia-wide and more than 300 jobs. The Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country's largest lender and owner of 33 per cent of Aussie Home Loans, said it would acquire the Wizard loans in two parcels, the first A$2 billion ($1.4 billion) in February next year with the details of the rest still being discussed. The bank said the mortgages it is acquiring are 100 per cent mortgage insured with a maximum loan to valuation ration of 90 per cent. Commonwealth Bank's share price rose 0.4 per cent Wednesday to AU$27.15. Treasurer Wayne Swan welcomed the deal, saying it would put Wizard on a more solid footing and provide hope of lower mortgage rates for borrowers. 'I think it's a positive development because Wizard has been dramatically impacted upon by the global financial crisis and the cost of funds for it has been, I guess, much higher for that organisation than many others,' Swan told the Fairfax Radio Network. 'Certainly I think it will mean that the new organisation will have access to funding which may be somewhat cheaper than the funding that Wizard has had in recent times,' he said. GE Money will continue to service all existing Wizard loans that it is retaining, Cutter said. Earlier this month, Wizard closed its New Zealand branch, citing the global financial crisis and the South Pacific country's economic downturn. Existing loans would be serviced, but no new loans would be written. 
