  http://www.onlinejournal.com/artman/publish/article_126...    Democratic Underground Demopedia reports in Who Killed John ONeill that at the time of 9/11, AIG, the worlds largest insurance company, and subsidiaries Marsh McLennan, ACE and Kroll, were run by the Greenberg family. With Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) member Maurice Hank Greenberg as the AIG godfather, the Familias tentacles curled around the heart of the tragedy.  Hanks son Jeffrey, a CFR member as well, was chairman of Marsh &amp;amp; McLennan, situated on floors throughout the North Tower of the World Trade Center as well as the top floors of the South Tower. Marsh also had ties to the CIA. Son Evan Greenberg, a CFR member, was CEO of ACE Limited, situated in Tower 7, which also contained AIG subsidiary Kroll, closely related to the CIA, also with an office in Tower 7.  Tower 7 also contained offices of the FBI, Department of Defense, IRS (which contained prodigious amounts of corporate tax fraud corporate, including Enrons), US Secret Service, Securities &amp;amp; Exchange Commission (with more stock fraud records), and Citibanks Salomon Smith Barney, the Mayors Office of Emergency Management and many other financial institutions.  Greenbergs cousin, Alan Ace Greenberg, was former CEO of Bear Sterns, where the Bush family, Cheney family George Schultz, James Baker, et al, did business. It is the leading brokerage firm of the great and all-powerful Bush Familia.  Also reported by Democratic Underground, AIGs Kroll provided protection services, among other things, to high level Americans at home and abroad. Kroll had military teams in their company and merged with Armor Holdings on August 23, 2001, adding Defence Systems Limited, another private military corporation, to their operation, and an ex-KGB team called Alpha Firm earlier acquired by Defense Systems Limited. These four teams could have been used on 9/11, part of a corporatizing of black ops in tandem with military teams.  According to whistleblower Richard Grove, who worked as a senior manager for SilverStream Software on Marsh and AIG accounts, Kroll also managed the Enron fraud once Kenneth Lay stepped down. 
