 You have to think of the economy as an engine where money is the lubricant.  The faster the engine goes, the more oil gets pumped to the moving parts.  The analogy breaks down when you consider that the amount of oil in the crankcase is fixed, whereas money can be created and destroyed at will.      What happened with mortgage based derivatives is more or less as follows.      1.  mortgage lenders such as banks, abandoned their traditional underwriting requirements.  Normally you would have to provide proof of employment, proof of income, have good credit ratings, etc.  For whatever reasons, the banks stopped doing this so essentially all you had to do was walk in, pay the origination fee and walk out with a loan.  It didn&amp;#039;t matter if you had a job, income or whatever.      2.  even when banks did qualify people based on income, they used an artificially low teaser rate that was as much as 2-3 percentage points below what it should have been.  The banks knew that when the interest rate was adjusted after a year that many people would not be able pay, but they didn&amp;#039;t care, because once they had the loan in hand, they would just resell it to someone like Fannie or Freddie, make a nice profit, take the money they received and use that to originate more bad loans.      3.  The companies responsible for rating the quality of these mortgages were asleep at the switch.  Either they didn&amp;#039;t realize that banks had abandoned all prudent underwriting guidelines or they did care.  So, they continued to rate these bad loans as AAA - the highest quality rating - when in fact they should have been rated as less than junk.      4.  The companies that bought these packaged mortgage loans, relying on these ratings, created MBSs (mortgage backed securities), CDOs (commercial debt obligations - since commercial real estate was also affected), etc. and promised people who bought them that they were of the highest quality.  Now historically, MBSs are very safe because banks had good underwriting standards.  But once that went out the window, all bets were off.      5.  These highly rated products then became collateral for a host of other financial instruments which were sold and traded around the world.  And because this was done over and over again, $1M in mortgage loans might become the basis for $30, $40, $50 million or more in other financial instruments.  Just like a $1 deposited in a bank can become the basis for $10 or $15 in loans that the bank might make.  The only difference is that while banks have strict reserve requirements they must meet (i.e., the ratio of deposits to loans can&amp;#039;t exceed a certain amount), there were no such requirements for the financial instruments created based on the bad loans.  So this magnified the problem at least 30 fold.      6.  Once people started to default on their loans, it caused a chain reaction that made a nuclear detonation look tame.  Think about it.  If $1M in mortgage loans was the basis for $30M in other financial instruments - all of them rated AAA - what happens when that $1M turns out to be worthless?      7.  The reason that this took everyone by surprise is the fact that you could never tell by looking at an instrument what exposure it had to bad loans.  These assets were mostly &amp;amp;quot;off balance sheet&amp;amp;quot; items and there was no way to trace their genealogy or pedigree.  You only found out as the companies who created the instruments started to fail.  Of course it was obvious that this would happen, but on a case by case basis, you could never be certain of what you were holding - were your securities really AAA or junk?      That brings us to the problem with AIG.  They created insurance instruments for these financial products called credit default swaps.  Basically they guaranteed that if a particular insured instrument defaulted (became worthless) they would give you the full face value.  Now you have to understand that AIG was not writing mortgages or, as far as I know, not even creating mortgage based derivative instruments.  They were simply selling insurance - which, as an insurance company is what you would expect them to do.  BUT they were relying on the high credit rating of these instruments in determining what rate to charge for the CDSs.      So the problem with AIG is not that they had any moral culpability in this fiasco.  Their problem is that they relied on the bogus credit ratings and when they had to start paying out on the CDSs realized that they didn&amp;#039;t have enough cash.  AIG is financially sound, they just got caught with their pants down.      Now the other thing to remember is that although most of these securities are not AAA, they&amp;#039;re also not worthless.  The only reason they seem worthless is because there is currently no market for them.  And the reason for that is no one can determine what individual securities are actually worth so they assume they&amp;#039;re worthless until proven otherwise.      As the federal govt buys these debt obligations and resells them, it will create a market and give people the confidence to purchase them.  So as this plays out, many of the loans that are now considered worthless will turn out to be good.  So buy creating a market for these instruments and fostering confidence, they will be able to resell the assets they purchase at a significant profit.  Therefore in the long run, the cost to the tax payer will be negative - i.e., the govt will get back much more than the $85B + $700B that it is currently putting out. 
