Buffett&amp;#039;s &amp;quot;time bomb&amp;quot; goes off on Wall Street Thu Sep 18, 2008 1:42pm EDT  When the credit default market began back in the mid-1990s, the transactions were simpler, more transparent affairs. Not all the sellers were insurance companies like AIG -- most were not. But the protection buyer usually knew the protection seller.  An over-the-counter market grew up and some of the most active players became asset managers, including hedge fund managers, who bought and sold the policies like any other investment.  And in those deals, they sold protection as often as they bought it -- although they rarely set aside the reserves they would need if the obligation ever had to be paid.  The trouble was, the hedge fund set up a subsidiary to stand behind the guarantee -- and capitalized it with just $4.6 million. As long as the loans performed, the fund made a killing, raking in an annualized return of nearly 44 percent.  But in the summer of 2007, as home owners began to default, things got ugly.  Both Wachovia Corp (WB.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Citigroup Inc (C.N: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) are involved in similar litigation with firms that promised to step up and act like insurers -- but were not actually insurers.  &amp;quot;Insurance companies have armies of actuaries and deep pools of policyholders and the financial wherewithal to pay claims,&amp;quot; says Mike Barry, a spokesman at the Insurance Information Institute.  Another problem: As hedge funds and others bought and sold these protection policies, they did not always get prior written consent from the people they were supposed to be insuring.  As a result, some protection buyers had trouble figuring out who was standing behind the insurance they bought. And it put investors into webs of relationships they did not understand.  &amp;quot;This is the derivative nightmare that everyone has been warning about,&amp;quot; says Peter Schiff, the president of Euro Pacific Capital. &amp;quot;They booked all these derivatives assuming bad things would never happen. It was like writing fire insurance, assuming no one is ever going to have a fire.&amp;quot;  MORE:&amp;amp;nbsp;  http://www.reuters.com/article/newsOne/idUSN1837154020080918?pageNumber=2&amp;amp;amp;virtualBrandChannel=0    
