Washington to B of A: Shareholders be damned! by Martin D. Weiss, Ph.D. 04-26-09 Last December, with its stock hovering around $15 per share, Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis made a startling discovery: Merrill Lynch  the giant his bank was in the process of acquiring  was in far worse shape than he had dreamed. This week, thanks to documents released by New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, we discovered new details on what appears to be the real reason Lewis finalized the merger despite Merrills obvious troubles. According to Lewis, he had told former Treasury Secretary Paulson and Fed Chairman Bernanke that he wanted to back out of the merger with Merrill. Whether he had the legal ability to do so or not is a separate issue. What matters is that, according to Lewis, Paulson and Bernanke tacitly threatened to fire him and his entire board of directors if they backed out. Now Lewis has testified that Paulson made it quite clear he was NOT to disclose to his shareholders how troubled Merrill was for fear that they would demand the merger be canceled. Bottom line: When faced with the choice of saving his own job or saving his shareholders, Lewis decided to keep his mouth shut, go ahead with the merger and save his job. He had a gun pointed to his head, the classic case of a shotgun merger; and the rest is history In January, Bank of America reported a $2.4 billion fourth-quarter loss and Merrill disclosed a $15 billion loss. Also in January, Washington gave Bank of America $20 billion of your money to offset losses it suffered because of its shotgun marriage with Merrill. And as of Fridays close, the decision made by Paulson, Bernanke and Lewis has cost shareholders as much as 43 percent of their money in just over four months, even AFTER a vigorous rally. Even more disturbing: As the details of this latest shotgun marriage continue to emerge, its becoming clearer than ever that  Washington does NOT want us to know the truth. A disturbing pattern is taking shape here  a pattern of obfuscation and outright deceit that illustrates just how panicked Washington regulators truly are when they discuss this crisis behind closed doors. On Friday, I posted a new article on my blog showing how Washingtons much vaunted bank stress tests have been blatantly rigged to portray our 19 largest banks as being far healthier than they truly are. Plus, the regulators have authorized accounting rules that allow banks to  Inflate the book value of toxic assets they own  Miraculously vaporize liabilities they are responsible for, and  Magically erase billions of losses in their quarterly reports  treat them like they never even happened. Lets be clear here: Washington caused this crisis through artificially low interest rates and by blessing go-for-broke speculation by our largest financial institutions. Now, Washington is making matters worse by playing it fast and loose with the truth  even cajoling CEOs to violate their disclosure obligation to shareholders  and as a result, our leaders are slamming investors for billions of dollars in stock market losses. Unless we stop them now, Washington will bankrupt us all with massive bailouts of companies like Chrysler and GM that take tens of billions more of our dollars for companies that, in the end, go belly-up anyway. This is precisely why Ive spent the past few weeks urging you to join me in a national grass-roots campaign to make our voices heard in Washington  to sign our petition demanding that our leaders STOP these worthless, useless, pointless bail-outs before they bankrupt our entire nation. So far, nearly 30,000 taxpayers and investors have signed our petition  but your opportunity to add your voice to ours MUST END NEXT WEEK! Next week, we will print these petitions and the following week, I will personally deliver these demands to our nations leaders in Washington D.C. I sincerely hope that yours is among the nearly 30,000 taxpayers and investors who have already joined me in this campaign. If not, you still have time: Just click here to add your voice and to join this fight to preserve our childrens futures. This is the last week to do so before I personally deliver the petitions to Washington. And to make sure our leaders get the message loud and clear, include a simple note in each package: Stop the bail-outs before you bankrupt ALL of us! Look: Its bad enough that hundreds of thousands of our fellow Americans are likely to lose their jobs when GM and Chrysler fail. We can NOT allow Washington to add insult to injury by continuing to throw our money at companies that are going to go bust no matter what! I urge you  join me in this campaign before its too late: Then, click this link to sign our petition while you still can  so I can personally register your outrage along with mine and tens of thousands of other taxpayers and investors the week after next! Good luck and God bless! Martin http://www.moneyandmarkets.com/washington-to-b-of-a-shareholders-be-damned-2-33406
