    Obama The Empty Suit wrote:     Enjoy your one term Mr. Obama. Socialism will not be accepted here. The Stimulus package is a joke ! You are better suited to be a Preacher than a President !     "Latin leftists gloating over 'Comrade' Bush's bailout Sign up for email newsletters now! Sign up for email newsletters now! Never miss a McClatchy story - Register   Log in logout   member center Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook More on this Story   * Story   China's sitting on piles of money. Why won't it help?  * Story   Struggling KC area food pantries issue plea for help  * Story   Will U.S. move toward British bailout approach? Maybe  * Story   For legions of lawyers, bad markets are good business  * Story   Americans deeply pessimistic about economy, poll finds  * Story   Market plunge continues, despite Fed's new lending plan  * Story   With leaders divided, EU nations fend for themselves  * Story   East Asia remembers last crisis as it braces for new one  * Story   Telecommuters look smart as gas prices go up  * Story   Here's what some experts are telling Texas investors  * Story   Wells Fargo, Citi battle for Wachovia behind closed doors  * Story   Outlook 'bleak' for help agencies  * Story   Loan-modification in Texas could help Countrywide customers avoid foreclosure  * Story   Bank of America's earnings fall 68 percent  * Story   Car loan approvals were off sharply in California this year  * Story   As stock markets slide, McCain and Obama talk economics  * Story   In pricey Greenwich, Conn., signs of a troubled economy  * Story   The Great Depression: Memories of the worst of times  * Story   A brief history of financial woe  * Story   Tight times in Macon: water at lunch and shrinking tips  * On the Web   Fallout on Main Street: See the full project  * On the Web   The Economy in Turmoil  By Tyler Bridges   McClatchy Newspapers  CARACAS, Venezuela  They don't call him President Bush in Venezuela anymore.  Now he's known as "Comrade."  With the Bush administration's Treasury Department resorting to government bailout after government bailout to keep the U.S. economy afloat, leftist governments and their political allies in Latin America are having a field day, gloating one day and taunting Bush the next for adopting the types of interventionist government policies that he's long condemned.  "We were just talking about that this morning on the floor," said Congressman Edwin Castro, who heads the leftist Sandinista congressional bloc in Nicaragua. "We think the Bush administration should follow the same policies that they and the International Monetary Fund have always told us to follow when we have economic problems  a structural adjustment that requires cutting government spending and reducing the role of government.  "One of our economists was telling us that Bush has just implemented communism for the rich," Castro said."  http://www.mcclatchydc.com/117/story/53611.ht... 
