Article from:   The Australian  THERE is something troubling about the global banking sector's ability to restructure itself under government control using taxpayer funds.  The latest case in point is the dismantling of one failed business model, in the form of Citigroup, to apparently create another, in the case of Morgan Stanley.  The latter, of course, is reportedly happy to advance $US2.5 billion ($3.7 billion) of US government-backed funds to buy a controlling share in the former's stockbroking giant, Smith Barney.  The precise difference between the two financial one-stop-shops is not readily apparent, although it seems US bank regulators are happy to see Citigroup dismantled in an orderly fashion.  Just what happens at Morgan Stanley remains to be seen, and, of course, just when and how the US and Australian governments withdraw their support from the sector is anyone's guess.  It was reported earlier this week that the big four Australian banks were pushing for a special-purpose fund to help fill the gap left by the departing foreigners, which previously supplied about 60 per cent of syndicated loans in Australia.  Some $70 billion of the $285 billion in syndicated loans outstanding are due to be refinanced in the next two years.  Separately, some non-bank financial institutions are floating the concept that the Reserve Bank provide support for repurchase agreements on commercial property loans.  The underlying principle is that the market has failed, so there is a need for the Government to step in.  That's fine, but one could argue that the Government has already done its bit through, among other means, the overly generous guarantee on bank deposits and offshore borrowing.  The spread between the overnight swap rate and cash paid by Australian banks is back to 60 basis points -- about its level in March when Bear Stearns failed.  When Lehman Brothers left, the spread topped 100 basis points, compared with the historical norm of 15 basis points.  Banks such as NAB and ANZ have been able to access cheaper capital offshore. This is undeniably good news, which hopefully will continue.  What a hide, then, for the big banks to expect more government backing to help them take up any shortfall left by offshore bank withdrawals. Not so long ago, people worried about lack of credit growth opportunities for the big banks and now this is being treated as an opportunity to take back market share.  As much as ANZ Bank and others talk up the gloom, it seems right now there is no need for taxpayer funds to be spent on co-investing with the big-bank oligopoly to help them get even more control of local lending.  Far better for the banks to get their own house in order, as suggested by auditor KPMG in a report yesterday on risk management. The idea is to revolutionalise risk management by starting at the top with genuine risk expertise at board level.  Communication in the bank between the divisions and risk managers need to be improved, but importantly the risk managers must be seen as the key people to maintain sustainable earnings. Too often, according to the study, risk is seen as a support function or a necessary evil when you only have to look at the banks that have avoided the real bloodbaths to see risk management actually helps the bank.  That is a lot more than can be said for the concept of yet more government support which, as the banks will learn, will come with unwanted controls.  ASIC in gear  SLOWLY but surely the Australian Securities and Investments Commission is starting to kick enforcement goals, albeit in recent examples by way of investigation rather than court action.  Yesterday, civil penalties were sought against Martin Soust for allegedly buying Select Vaccines shares in his mum's name to boost the stock price and, in turn, his annual bonus. Soust is a former chief executive of the company and, while it is not huge, the alleged events neatly describe what has gone wrong with corporate governance across the market with too much emphasis on short-term returns.  Earlier in the month, high-profile blue blood Michael Kirwan accepted an enforceable undertaking that will keep him out of the market for five years.  ASIC was worried Kirwan, from Lands Kirwan (since merged with Shaw Stockbroking) may have taken action that manipulated the price of Senetas shares.  Last month it emerged Stuart Fysh, who at one time was lined up to run BG Group's Australian operations, was under investigation for trading in stock prior to a deal being announced.  Human resources  NOW Rio Tinto has belatedly removed Dick Evans as boss of its aluminium division, surely it's only a matter of time before the London-based company tells the market that chairman Paul Skinner will also depart after the coming annual meeting in April.  The departure of Evans was not unexpected and is part of moves by chief executive Tom Albanese to show he is firmly in control and serious about cutting costs.  The appointment of Jacynthe Cote as aluminium boss is notable firstly because she is the most senior female in the company's history and her brief is to highlight how costs can be cut.  All the talk around Rio is about production cutbacks and asset sales, which is not exactly a sign of corporate stability but makes this an ideal time for the board to bring forward the departure of Skinner.  Back in October, amid rumours he was pushing for the more glamorous post of BP chair, after some discussion at board level, Skinner declared he would leave at the end of his present contract -- which expires in December.  Given his refusal to even talk to BHP Billiton on its takeover approach, the timing of his public declaration could not have been worse, because at that stage BHP was pressing ahead with a deal.  Rio has a star-studded board replete with people more than capable of filling Skinner's shoes. But some, due to age, work conflicts and coming from the Australian end of the world, would be ruled out.  A possibility would be David Clementi, who has served on the board for five years, chairs Prudential Insurance and is a former merchant banker and Bank of England deputy governor. All ideal qualities to chair the troubled Rio.  US rival Alcoa's dismal first-quarter results released on Monday night -- a $US1.2 billion loss against a $US632 million profit the prior year after a 19 per cent fall in sales and a $US920 million impairment charge -- underlines the problems ahead for corporate earnings.  At least Rio's $US38 billion Alcan acquisition came with cheap power via long-term hydro deals in Quebec.  Evans, along with two other Alcan nominees, was kept on the board as a political gesture to the Quebec Government. But having kept Evans on board to help in the transition, Albanese clearly has some other imperatives, with the market believing the Alcan deal was overpriced to shake off BHP.  The timing wasn't great and, with assets difficult to sell, the market is looking for corporate blood at Rio or, more to the point, evidence it is getting out of the hole it dug for itself. What better way to achieve just that to have Skinner walk the plank?  
