LONDON (ShareCast) - Expectations of a poor start on Wall Street and news of further job cuts at Barclays have Footsie plunging further into the red.   Barclays shocked workers today with news that 2,100 jobs will disappear at its UK banking business on top of the same number to go at the investment banking and wealth management arms. The bank hopes to avoid compulsory redundancies at the retail and commercial banking businesses, with most jobs cuts thought to be contract and temporary staff and vacant positions.   Morgan Stanley stirred the pot by suggesting that HSBC will need to raise between $20bn and $30bn to improve its capital base. The US bank has done its sums and reckons HSBC will cut its dividend payment in half, as it can no longer rely, in the current environment, on around a quarter of its shareholders taking dividends in scrip form.   Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) has sold its entire 4.26% stake in Bank of China for a net consideration of 1.6bn. RBS has offloaded 10.8bn shares at HK $1.71 each just a few months after the British government took a 58% holding in the bank, having underwritten a 15bn fundraising.   HBOS and Lloyds TSB are both friendless ahead of next Monday's trading debut of the merged group - a debut that coincides with the lifting of the ban on short selling financial stocks.   Funds Under Management (FUM) fell 21% at Man Group in the third quarter due to further redemptions and as the hedge fund manager reduced investment exposure across its MGS product range.   Rail and bus firm FirstGroup is also weak as it revealed US arm Greyhound's revenue growth has been impacted by the challenging economic environment in the US and Canada with revenue deteriorating particularly towards the end of the period. Like-for-like revenue was down by 4.5% as a result of a disappointing trading performance at Thanksgiving and Christmas. Fellow transport group Arriva takes collateral damage from FirstGroup's gloomy update. On a brighter note, engineer and project management giant Amec expects pre-tax profit to top 200m in 2008, at the higher end of market forecasts. It pointed to continued strength in demand, led by its Natural Resources order book which was up about 40% last year.   Publishing group Reed Elsevier edges higher after it announced it had priced and allocated notes with a value of $1.5bn. $550 million of five year notes will pay a coupon of 7.75% and mature on 15 January 2014, and $950 million of ten year notes will pay a coupon of 8.625% and mature on 15 January 2019.   US bank Morgan Stanley (MS) has reiterated its "sell" recommendation for power generator Drax. MS says margin pressures are building up, due in part to the weakness of sterling. Morgan Stanley has cut its price target for the stock to 495p.   On the FTSE 250, pub owner Punch Taverns' trading was very tough over Christmas with like-for-like outlet profit from the leased and tenanted business down by approximately 12%. The group added it has increased its support for its licensees from 0.4m per month this time last year to 1.6m per month this year. Sector peers Enterprise Inns and Greene King sink in sympathy.   Mexican group Fresnillo expects gold and silver production in 2009 to match last year's output, but said it will only focus on critical capital expenditure and intermediate and advanced exploration projects.   Rat-catcher and laundry group Rentokil Initial is wanted after US bank upgraded the stock from "neutral" to "buy" and boosted its price target from 39p to 51p.   Engineering and construction firm Balfour Beatty said it expects to make further progress in 2009, despite the difficult economic environment, after strong trading in 2008.   JJB Sports will make a loss of between 5-10m in the current year to end January before any refinancing costs as a result of the extremely difficult trading conditions. Within this result the LifeStyle division is expected to incur losses of around 15m for the full year and may now be put up for sale, JJB said.   Housebuilder Redrow legally completed less than half the number of properties in the first half than it did the year before and has seen a sharp drop in selling prices, but cost reduction measures have cut net debt more than expected. "Costs have been reduced, but building costs were already around 10 points higher than the peer group and this looks to have combined dangerously with far weaker pricing than that of the competition," broker KBC said, in a downbeat assessment of the trading update.   Wholesaler Booker said it continues to make good progress despite a challenging market with total sales in the 16 weeks to 2 January 2009 up 2.7% on the same period last year.   Shares in asset management firm Polar Capital fall back after news emerged that Julian Barnett has resigned as a portfolio manager for personal reasons. Barratt will continue to manage the Paragon Fund until it is wound down and funds are returned to investors.
