Jan 6 (Reuters) - The following financial services industry appointments were announced on Tuesday. To inform us of other job changes, please e-mail moves@thomsonreuters.com.  BNP PARIBAS  The French Bank named Johnson C K Tan as the new chief executive officer of BNP Paribas Capital (Singapore) Ltd and regional head of Corporate Finance for South East Asia. Tan was with Macquarie earlier.  AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP  The banking group will appoint a former senior Standard Chartered retail banking expert as its new China chief executive, two banking sources said, in a move to strengthen its consumer banking business in the country.  HENDERSON GLOBAL INVESTORS  The global asset management firm appointed Katherine Croom as portfolio manager for its sector specialist pan-European retail property fund, Herald.. She joins from CBRE.  PROTEGO REAL ESTATE INVESTORS  The European real estate fund and asset management business appointed Calum Barclay as an associate within its Nordic Retail Fund. Barclay, previously with Mariner, will be based in London.  SAV CREDIT  The credit card provider appointed Mike Says as chief financial officer. He joins from Lloyds TSB where he was Finance Director of the UK Retail Division.  PIONEER INVESTMENTS  The global investment management group named Bill C. Taylor head of relationship management and strategic alliances group in the U.S. Taylor joins from Evergreen Investments.  INGENIOUS ASSET MANAGEMENT  The firm appointed Philip Todd and James Oldham as investment directors. Both are joining from Taylor Young Investment Management.  MCCARTHY CAPITAL  The firm named Scott H. Maierhofer as partner. Maierhofer joins from Green Manning &amp;amp; Bunch, (GMB), where he was Co-President.  (Compiled by Eric Yep and Amiteshwar Singh in Bangalore) Keywords: FINANCIAL/MOVES  (amiteshwar.singh@thomsonreuters.com; within U.S. +1 646 223 8780; outside U.S. +91 80 4135 5800; Reuters Messaging: amiteshwar.singh.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
