Government considering funding business Commercial banks may also help  THE federal Government could soon become lender of last resort to Australian businesses, with the creation of a multi-billion-dollar scheme partly funded through the sale of commonwealth bonds.  The emergency measure is considered necessary to allow some of Australia's biggest companies to roll over existing credit facilities and avert a new wave of layoffs and a further plunge in business and consumer confidence, The Australian reports.  The proposed fund will also include some money from the big commercial banks - probably about half the total - and is designed to make up for the credit shortfall resulting from the withdrawal of cash-strapped foreign banks from the Australian market.  The plan involves the Government taking the extraordinary step of effectively lending directly to businesses via a special-purpose vehicle, supposedly a temporary facility.  The Government is finalising the plan, and the banks have been negotiating the details with David Murray, head of the Future Fund and former head of the Commonwealth Bank, who is assisting the Government on the issue.  The situation has become even more urgent with the turmoil rocking international banking after the huge losses announced by the Royal Bank of Scotland, Citigroup and others.  Australian banking stocks have led the sell-off on the local share market over the past two days, with up to 7 per cent wiped off the value of their shares.  Last night, the corporate regulator, the Australian Securities &amp; Investments Commission, extended by six weeks a ban on short-selling bank stocks after watching unprecedented dumping of British and American bank shares in the past week.  The ban, which was due to expire next week but will now remain in place until March 6, effectively protects banks from traders such as hedge funds seeking to profit by driving their shares lower.  The Government appreciates that without a reliable flow of credit to Australian businesses, the problems in the economy will rapidly worsen.  Kevin Rudd emphasised this week that $75 billion of outstanding loans to Australian corporations were due to be refinanced over the next two years. 'If foreign banks do not roll over their share of these loans, it would be difficult for Australia's four major banks to fill the gap on their own,' he said. Wayne Swan said yesterday that the Government stood ready to take further action should it be required. 'It's not required at the moment but should that gap open up, action will be taken and we will announce it at that time,' the Treasurer said.  But the negotiations between the banks and the Government have been going on since before Christmas, as it became clear that there could be a problem for many Australian corporations in rolling over their loans.  The Government is determined to have a response in place before there is any greater crisis in lending. Australian banks have been able to borrow large sums offshore recently, largely thanks to the Australian Government's funding guarantee.  But many foreign banks are no longer willing to do business in relatively small markets such as Australia, particularly when their home offices are under pressure to focus on their own backyards.  Australian banks are also restrained by the amount they can lend to any one company as a proportion of their capital.  The practice has been for a syndication of banks, including foreign banks, to share big corporate loans. As these loans become due for refinancing, that will no longer be an option in many cases.  Australian banks are also apprehensive about the prospect of being targeted for borrowing excessively offshore in such uncertain times, or for being too exposed to one sector or company.   At the same time, Australian companies are now finding it almost impossible to raise money themselves in offshore markets courtesy of the international credit crunch and general reluctance to lend.  Mr Murray had quashed an initial suggestion that the Future Fund might be able to fill the funding gap itself, saying its role was to operate on a commercial basis.  Westpac's head of institutional banking, Phil Chronican, told The Australian yesterday that it was clear the Government and the retail banks realised a funding gap would emerge once foreign banks scaled back lending to Australian businesses.  There are estimates that up to $90billion worth of corporate debt will be refinanced in the next two years, but the Australian banks will be able to fund only $50billion of that.  The commercial property sector and listed real estate trusts have the most debt exposed to foreign banks, which has led to concerns the troubles could put further pressure on national property prices. 'I think there's a couple of things that could help, and the Australian banks have the capacity to pick up some of the shortfall, given we're facing a decline in credit demand elsewhere,' Mr Chronican said. 'The ideal outcome is to get the capital markets investing ... into debt that would help take the pressure off the banks. 'The Government wants to support some kind of bridging finance over the next couple of years to plug the gap and encourage the foreign banks to stay in Australia. 'The Government and the banks are looking to co-operate to address this issue.' However, there are concerns among investment bankers that a funding pool would delegate responsibility to the Government to become a corporate lender.  UBS managing director Steve Hawkins said there would be a market disruption if failed corporates were kept alive with fresh funding from the proposed government vehicle. 'From a policy perspective, you can't give handouts to everyone - these are difficult times, you have to be careful,' Mr Hawkins said. 'You can't prop up bad companies at the expense of good companies.'     Government considering funding business Commercial banks may also help  THE federal Government could soon become lender of last resort to Australian businesses, with the creation of a multi-billion-dollar scheme partly funded through the sale of commonwealth bonds.  The emergency measure is considered necessary to allow some of Australias biggest companies to roll over existing credit facilities and ave... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/couriermail/story/0,23739,24947710-36437,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
