Speculation that banking giant HSBC will need to tap shareholders for funds refuses to go away.  US bank Morgan Stanley added fuel to the fire with a note suggesting HSBC's balance sheet is not as healthy as widely thought. Morgan Stanley calculates that HSBC needs to raise between $20bn to $30bn to repair its balance sheet.  'Our detailed study of HSBC's capital and asset quality position reinforces our belief that it will have to halve the dividend and raise major capital in 2009,' Morgan Stanley said.  Not surprisingly, Morgan Stanley has an 'underweight' rating on the stock. It has cut its price target from 550p to 445p.  Hedge fund manager Man Group looks cheap but the environment remains tough, says broker Teathers, which retains its hold recommendation following Man's trading update.  'Man's shares now trade on 3.8x our current calendarised 2009E EV/NOPAT estimate versus the 5.6x for the sub-sector,' the broker observes. On this valuation the shares look cheap, but trading conditions, particularly on the institutional side, remain difficult. The broker has retained its 'hold' recommendation on the shares.  Punch Taverns' 20 weeks numbers were worse than the most pessimistic forecasts, according to broker KBC Peel Hunt, which has downgraded its profit forecasts by 5% as a result.  Hickman has provisionally downgraded his full-year pre-tax profit estimate to 190m and his earnings per share forecast to 56.5p.  The broker expects it will be a long time before Punch achieves a quality rating and advises its clients to sell the stock.  Rival stockbroker Teathers takes a contrary view, rating the shares a 'buy' with a 275p price target.  Though it expects to revise its forecast for 2009 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) down by 3% and its earnings per share estimate down by 8% as a result of the trading update, the broker believes concerns about the future of the business are overdone.  'Spirit Issuer remains a risk for the business, but in practice if it were to suffer a breach of its default covenants, we believe the insurer, AMBAC, and the securitisation's trustees would renegotiate terms so that the assets would still be controlled by Punch Taverns. In that respect, the actual risk to the business is much less than the perceived risk, despite this poor trading update,' Teathers believes.  HSBA - HSBC Holdings  
