NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Reportlinker.com announces that a new market research report related to the Credit Cards industry is available in its catalogue.  This 6th edition of Private Label Credit Cards in the U.S. continues the story told in Packaged Facts September 2006 analysis of this market. It examines the complex relationship between banks, which are severely restricting their consumer lending; retailers, which want to get their cards into as many hands as possible; and American consumers, who may have changed their shopping habits foreveror until the latter part of 2009, when Packaged Facts expects spending to rally.  Packaged Facts estimates growth in private-label credit cards at 3.3% in 2007, bringing the market to nearly $114 billion in receivables. The 2004-2005 period saw a rally during which the acquisition blitz was in full swing and the leading third-party issuers were making substantial investments in marketing, new product development, and customer relations management for their new retail portfolios. However, receivables for private-label credit cards are expected to decline by 3.5%, or $4 billion, for a total of $109.7 billion in 2008 receivables.  Market trends and features that continue to be, or have become, major forces in the private-label segment of the credit card market include:  The acquisition blitz: Third-party issuers have been acquiring retailers card portfolios, and at the beginning of 2008, only four major retailer holdouts remained. By the end of 2008, there may be just two leading retailers still managing their card programs in-house.  Co-branding: More retailers than ever have signed on to offer store cards that can also be used elsewhere. Whereas incentives were once retailers primary promotional tool, partnering with Visa and MasterCard gives customers access to the card associations rewards programs.  Household penetration rates are fairly low and usage rates even lower. The good news is that active private label credit cardholders are extremely enthusiastic shoppers.  Apathy toward high-tech payment options. Card-specific technology is not expected to play a major role in the retail card market in the foreseeable future.  But there have also been notable shifts in the market since 2006. New to this edition:  The retail industry is reeling from the bumpy economic environment, with almost 6,000 store closings predicted for 2008. GE Money put its private label business up for sale. Alliance Data, too, is looking for buyers. There have been no takers, as financial institutions are in no position to take on more risk in the form of shoppers who are increasingly unable to pay their bills.  Meanwhile, with practically no major portfolios left to acquire, issuers are trying to grow their businesses by focusing on customer relations management. In fact, this strategy is highly recommended by analysts in a recessionary environment. However, many retailers are reportedly dissatisfied by issuers services in this arena and may even seek to reclaim their card assets.  Exploding debit card use has hurt the credit card industry in general, and in an uncertain economy consumers may be even more reluctant to incur unnecessary debt from discretionary purchases like clothing. However, retailers (Wal-Mart, supermarkets) selling everyday items like groceries may feel the squeeze a bit less.  Credit card companies have long been under fire from consumer advocates for usurious interest rates, but many are now turning their attention to the APRs imposed by store cards. In 2008, Consumer Reports, creditcards.com, and a New York legislator have launched investigations or otherwise advised consumers to stay away from proprietary credit cards.  The forecast for private label is more bleak than sunny, but online shopping, rewards programs, improved customer service, stimulating usage by under-targeted consumer groups can all contribute to growth. Issuers willing to take on more accounts can also expand their businesses by courting smaller retailers that dont currently offer store cards.  Report Methodology  The information contained in this report is based on primary research including interviews with financial institutions that issue private-label credit cards, retailers fielding private-label card programs, and marketing firms that administer loyalty programs for retailers, as well as comprehensive secondary research. The latter includes articles appearing in financial, marketing, and trade publications, government resources, independent financial reports, product advertising, independent blogs, and company literature, corporate websites, and consumer websites. Statistics on market revenues and marketer share are based on an evaluation of all available information on market sales and trends, including data for the top private-label retail card issuers from SEC company filings, public statements from corporate executives, and trends and figures reported by the trade press.  Packaged Facts analysis of consumer behavior and demographics derives from the Simmons Market Research Bureaus (New York, NY) Winter 2008 adult consumer survey, which is based on approximately 25,000 respondents age 18 or over, and BIGresearchs (Worthington, OH) Consumer Intentions and Actions data, which are based on online monthly surveys of over 8,000 U.S. adults.  Chapter 1: Executive Summary  Scope of Report  Report Methodology  Overview: 2006 vs. 2008  Ongoing trends: acquisition, co-branding, unmotivated customers  Significant changes: the economy, the economy, the economy  Benefits and drawbacks of store cards  The Market  A $114 billion market in 2007 is squeezed by the credit crunch  Table 1-1: U.S. Market for Private-Label Credit Cards, 2003-2007 (in billions of dollars and percent change)  Figure 1-1: U.S. Market for Private-Label Credit Cards, 2003-2007 (in billions of dollars)  Market Factors  Drop in consumer spending drags down GDP  Table 1-2: Real Gross Domestic Product and Related Measures, 2005-3Q 2008 (percent change from previous period)  Figure 1-2: Real Personal Consumption Expenditures, 2006-3Q 2008 (percent change)  171 banks with combined assets of $116 billion are classified as ''problem'' institutions  Figure 1-3: Earnings, FDIC-Insured Financial Institutions, 3Q 2008 (in billions of dollars)  Figure 1-4: Charge-Offs, FDIC-Insured Financial Institutions, 3Q 2008 (in billions of dollars)  Consumer confidence crumbles  Figure 1-5: Consumer Confidence Index, September 2007-November 2008  Credit card debt swells by $50 billion in one year  Figure 1-6: Revolving Consumer Credit Outstanding, September 2003- September 2008 (in millions of dollars) Source: Federal Reserve, Packaged Facts  Personal bankruptcies could top 1.1 million in 2008  Table 1-3: Number of U.S. Business and Non-business Bankruptcy Filings, 12 Months Ended June 2007 vs. 2008 (percent change)  Projected Market Growth  Congressional Budget Office expects significant declines, but also cites resilience of U.S. economy  Easing gas prices a boon to store traffic  Private-label credit card market will drop in 2008, rally in 2010, and approach $123 billion in 2012  Table 1-4: Projected U.S. Market for Private-Label Credit Cards, 2008-2012 (in billions of dollars and percent change)  Figure 1-7: Projected U.S. Market for Private-Label Credit Cards, 2007-2012 (in billions of dollars)  The Marketers  Consolidation reaches saturation point  Table 1-5: Top Issuers of Private-Label Retail Cards, Estimated Receivables and Market Share, 2001, 2003, 2005, and 2007 (in millions of dollars)  Marketer Shares  Citi and GE Money switch places  HSBC remains solidly in third place  Figure 1-8: Top Marketers of Private-Label Retail Cards, Estimated Market Share, 2007 (percent)  The Competitive Situation  Retailers should rethink their rewards systems  The Retail Situation  Mergers and acquisitions dilute retailers' brand identity  Aggressive price promotions spur sales, but erode profits  The Competitors  Delinquencies and charge-offs decimate profits  The Private-Label Cardholder  Nearly 73 million American adults, or one in three, have a private-label credit card  Figure 1-9: Card Use in the Past 30 Days: Selected Credit Card Classifications, 2008 (U.S. adults who have credit cards)  Usage rates for all private-label credit cards are on the decline  Figure 1-10: Change in Number of U.S. Adults Using Credit Cards in the Last Year, by Card Classification, Spring 2004 vs. Winter 2008 (percentage)  Usage rates of store cards increase with age  Figure 1-11: Indices for Use of Selected Credit Card Classifications in Last Year, By Age of Consumer, 2008 (U.S. Adults)  Twice as many women use private-label credit cards  More than 25% of whites and Asians use private-label credit cards  Higher-income households use private-label credit cards more regularly  Figure 1-12: Indices for Use of Credit Cards in the Last Year: Selected Credit Card Classifications, by Income of Consumer, 2008 (U.S. adults)  Consumers who use store cards are exceptionally fond of shopping  Clothing/specialty store card users are significantly more likely to plan shopping trips online  Looking Ahead: Trends and Opportunities  Customer service critical in current circumstances  Older, richer, smaller households index high for monthly usage of store cards  Clothing/specialty store cardholders are enthusiastic shoppers  Asian consumers may be a particularly profitable prospect  Maximize online store card use  Revive layaway  Recognize American optimism  Chapter 2: Highlights  Chapter 2: Introduction  Scope of Report  Overview: 2006 vs. 2008  Ongoing trends: acquisition, co-branding, unmotivated customers  Significant changes: the economy, the economy, the economy  Private-Label Card Basics  Benefits of store cards for consumers: special treatment  Drawbacks of store cards for consumers: cash outlay  Table 2-1: Selected Retailer Credit Card Rates in New York City, 2008 (percent)  Private-label car...
