 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   STO, TSO, INP, AAI, WOW,   AAP 2009-01-07   National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) has raised $US2.5 billion ($A3.51 billion) from US investors in the biggest Australian government guaranteed bond deal.  NAB spokesman Brandon Phillips told AAP the deal was oversubscribed and showed the appetite for Australian bank paper is returning. 'It was a good mix of interest which has given us encouragement the Australian government guaranteed paper is being well received,' he said. Corporate bond issuances virtually vanished last year as credit rates skyrocketed and the market for corporate debt froze in mid September in the aftermath of the collapse of US investment bank Lehman Brothers, amidst the global financial crisis.  NAB's issuance, which follows the other large Australian banks, suggests that the government's guarantee, and lower volatility in markets, is reassuring investors and encouraging them to lend money to banks.  NAB placed the three-year, 2.55 per cent issue on Tuesday into the 144a/RegS market - US investors that meet certain criteria - at 85 basis points over swap.  The bank paid a premium of approximately 15 basis points, compared to 35 basis points paid by banks in recent deals. 'Even compared to recent other Australian issuers in the US market before Christmas the premium was attractive,' Mr Phillips said. US investors' rush to subscribe for the deal showed the Australian government guarantee on banks' wholesale funding is now getting traction in the US market. 'The Australian guarantee is now pretty well understood in the US market so people have had time to absorb the detail and get their head around it.  The deal is the largest single tranche Australian government guaranteed bank offering, and the largest bond offering at launch, according analysts led by John Keith at the Australian arm of Japanese investment bank Nomura Holdings.  Barclays, HSBC, Merrill Lynch and RBC Capital Markets jointly led the offer.  The bond sale follows NAB's $3 billion share placement to institutions on November 10.  At 1334 AEDT NAB's shares were up 25 cents, or 1.21 per cent, at $20.99.
