MILAN (Reuters) - Fiat is in talks with Chrysler LLC to form a strategic partnership that could lead to the Italian car maker taking a stake in its U.S. peer, an industry publication said on Monday, citing people familiar with the matter.  Fiat (Milan:FIA.MI - News) could give Chrysler access to platforms, engines and transmissions to help the U.S. car maker overcome its problems, Automotive News Europe said.  (Reporting by Gilles Castonguay)  Top Stories  Reports: Billionaire could boost stake in NY Times - AP  Britain announces 2nd banking rescue plan - AP  4Q earnings could indicate economy's direction - AP  European markets buoyed by British bank bailout - AP  Oil falls below $36 ahead of busy earnings week - AP  Provided By    Tech Ticker Recent Posts  Bank of America Shocker: How Much More Will Taxpayers Take? - Aaron Task  Why Elevation Partners Invested $425M in Palm - Sarah Lacy  Landmark Day for American Capitalism - Aaron Task  Subscribe to Topics  Top Stories  Copyright  2008 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  Yahoo! Finance  Also on Yahoo   All Y! Services  Things To Do  Yahoo! Finance Worldwide  Copyright  2009 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Copyright Policy - Send Feedback  Quotes and other information supplied by independent providers identified on the Yahoo! Finance partner page. Quotes are updated automatically, but will be turned off after 25 minutes of inactivity. Quote data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, NYSE and Amex. Real-Time continuous streaming quotes are available through our premium service. You may turn streaming quotes on or off. All information provided 'as is' for informational purposes only, not intended for trading purposes or advice. Yahoo! is not an investment adviser and does not provide, endorse or review any information or data contained herein.  
