CRITERION - The Australian's in-house stock tipster - has done well to avoid a ritual horse-whipping in a public place, comfortably outperforming the market in 2008. Of course, in the bourse's worst year on record, we are talking about a hurdle rate that would make a Lilliputian blush.  Over the year, your columnist's 250 or so 'buy' and 'speculative buy' calls lost an average 29 per cent, not including repeat calls on the same company. This compares with the wider market's 43 per cent loss, as measured by the All Ordinaries index. Criterion's 140 'sell' and 'avoid' calls behaved more or less to plan, shedding an average 38 per cent. Our 70 'hold' recommendations - the last resort when we do not have a clue what the stock will do - declined by an average 27 per cent.   Among the buy calls, there were few clear outperformers, but that is to be expected in a year in which only a dozen or so stocks in the All Ordinaries index managed meaningful gains.   The best we could manage was a lucky punt on ports and rail group Asciano at the nadir of its debt woes in November, which produced a 119 per cent gain. But it is not that we are enamoured with the stock.   We also struck it lucky with an 83 per cent gain on the NSX-listed Golden Circle, which we backed as a takeover play given the foreign interest in our food assets. Sure enough, Heinz in October bought out the company for $288 million ($1.65 a share).   There was little joy among small caps generally, but we were well served by WA and Brazilian gold and iron miner Troy Resources (49 per cent), a profitable play that was trading at close to cash backing when we got on board in late November.   Another top 10 performer, Iluka Resources, helped our batting average, as did WA's Panoramic Resources in an otherwise moribund nickel sector.   Now for the turkeys. Life support was pulled on two of our 'speculative buy' calls, ABC Learning and Octaviar (formerly MFS). A few more, including OZ Minerals and Babcock &amp;amp; Brown, remain perilously positioned. Our 'speculative buy' call on Eddy Groves' crumbling empire (at $2.24 on February 27) rates as the most embarrassing. But hold the posse: we were warning folk off the stock late last year at the $5.40 level.   No excuses, though, for our 'speculative buy' on Queensland-based MFS after the impenetrable travel and funds management group began unravelling in January. In the heat of the market meltdown, we forgot the rule of thumb that if it is north of the Tweed, leave it to the white-shoe brigade.   A raft of other stocks have not lost 100percent of their value but are lurking in the twilight zone: property trusts Valad and Macquarie Countrywide, down 95 and 86 per cent respectively; and Babcock &amp;amp; Brown (down 99 per cent).   Transfield - down 85 per cent - exemplifies what can happen to supposedly sturdy blue chips when they drop shock profit warnings, launch desperate equity raisings and are perceived as lacking transparency.   As with most investors, the first half of the year was marked by immutable faith in an imminent market recovery and the resilience of the commodities sector. Regrettably, any resource junior promising to sink a few holes won the benefit of the doubt.   Belatedly, Criterion tightened his standards and honed the tricky art of 'sell' calls. Many, though, were no-brainers such as pulling the plug on Babcock &amp;amp; Brown, Centro Properties and Fortescue after the problems became apparent.   To atone for ABC, we steered investors away from Childs Family Care, which went broke. We were also rewarded for our early cautious approach on the broking sector - a coalmine canary if ever there was one - and a motley collection of serial laggards such as Clive Peeters, Great Southern, Boart Longyear and AED Oil.   Almost overnight, a slew of promising resource plays became basket cases as commodities tumbled and capital dried up. No more so than African nickel producer Albidon, down 97 per cent, consigned from being subject to a rumoured $5-a-share-plus takeover to a hopeless penny dreadful.   The sad reality of last year's market rout is that many investors would be happy with a 43 per cent loss, let alone losing 29 per cent, because many have lost much more.   As one reader notes, many succumbed to the temptation of selling one 'dog' blue chip to buy an even more flea-ridden one. 'In other words, they probably sold the one share at or near its bottom price, only to buy another that went south soon after purchase, thus extending the losses.' Does this sound familiar: ditch Babcock &amp;amp; Brown in favour of ANZ Bank, which is then hit by the Opes Prime fiasco. So resort to the supposed safety of Rio Tinto and things look rosy again, until BHP Billiton pricks the balloon by withdrawing the bid. 'Darn! Back to the banks and the safety of Commonwealth Bank. Wrong again - let's go back to resources and, gee, that OZ Minerals looks undervalued.' Criterion is not alone in suspecting the new year will not be an immediate circuit breaker to this value-destroying cycle. Market phases are not renowned for being governed by the Gregorian calendar.   Still, a 43 per cent drubbing suggests we are closer to the trough than the peak. Bargains abound, but as with scaling the world's loftiest alps there will be plenty of casualties as the debt-ridden players are starved of the oxygen of capital.  From here you can use the Social Web links to save Down 29pc ranks as an outperform to a social bookmarking site.  Do you agree with Julia Gillard that unions should temper their pay-rise demands in a weakening economy?   Vote   Your details   Map  Sarah-Jane Tasker WITH prices tipped to stay low this year, miners prepare for further cutbacks.   Fran Foo QANTAS, Telstra and National Australia Bank have been rocked by a major accounting scandal that hit their IT services supplier, Satyam.  Nick Tabakoff FAIRFAX Media's so-called 'rivers of gold' -- the print classifieds at its two major newspapers, The Sydney Morning Herald and Melbourne...  MANDARIN-SPEAKING PM Kevin Rudd has helped spark a renaissance in Australia's study of Asian languages.  5:15pm A PARAPLEGIC Japanese fisherman without a life jacket has survived for 15 hours after falling into the sea, using his arms to float.
