ANZ Banking Group and Westpac Banking Corp are eyeing samurai bond raisings in Tokyo, according to The Australian.  ANZ spokesman Paul Edwards indicated to the paper that the bank had not committed but was studying the samurai market's potential. 'We do not have any specific plans at the moment but we will be updating Japanese investors in February,' Mr Edwards said. The paper reported Westpac did not respond to requests to confirm reports it would undertake a raising in January.   The news comes as National Australia Bank added to its government bond, while rival banks Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) and Suncorp-Metway also eyed further issuance of government-backed bonds in offshore markets. National Australia Bank added $A500 million ($US361.5 million) to its five-year government-guaranteed bond, priced at around 110 basis points over swap, two investors said on Wednesday.   The private placement was led by UBS. UBS declined to comment.   CBA, the nation's third biggest lender, is discussing the sale of a US dollar three-year bond at 85 basis points over mid-swap, they said.   The offer would be lead-managed by Citigroup, JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs.   According to Bloomberg News  The bank, Australia's biggest provider of home loans, sold $2.5 billion three-year, 2.4 per cent notes, the report said.   It said the notes were priced to yield 127.2 basis points more than US Treasuries maturing at a similar time. It also offered $575 million five-year notes floating at 105 basis points more than the one-month Libor rate.   Suncorp, the country's second-biggest car and home insurer, is also considering a British pound bond issue, with a possible five-year maturity, one of the investors told Reuters.   Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and RBC Capital Markets would be jointly leading the offer.   The Australian Treasury in November put in place a government bond guarantee programme to help banks weather the global financial crisis, following similar moves in other countries including the UK, United States, Germany and France.   Australian banks have raised nearly $27 billion in guaranteed bonds across the globe, with the vast majority   denominated in US and Australian dollars.   Government-backed bonds are rated triple A by S&amp;amp;P and Moody's. Investors worldwide are keen buyers of this new asset class as they offer significantly higher margins than traditional government bonds, also rated triple A. ANZ Appoints China Chief  ANZ Banking Group Ltd has appointed Christine Ip as chief executive for China to extend its retail and institutional banking presence.   She will report to ANZ's north east Asia chief Alistair Bulloch and succeeds Andrew McGregor when he retires next month. Ms Ip takes up her post next Monday. 
