Grant Thornton LLP, the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (Grant Thornton International), today announced that Carlos Ferreira, Michael Bernstein, and Mel Schwarz will participate in the Dow Jones Private Equity Analyst Outlook 2009 Conference on January 27-28, at the Grand Hyatt in New York.   Mr. Ferreira, Partner, Transaction Advisory Services, Grant Thornton LLP, will participate as a panelist in a discussion on the global financial crisis of 2008, which will take place at 11:15 a.m. on January 27. The panel, entitled 'The World Can Only End Once: What Lies Ahead for Investing', will address the events that forced firms to slow or abandon deals as the economy froze in 2008. The panel will also discuss lingering uncertainties for the private equity industry, and the future of dealmaking and firm organization. Moderating this discussion will be John R. LeClaire, Partner, Goodwin Procter LLP. The other panelists are Stefan Selig, Vice Chairman, Global Investment Banking, Bank of America Securities; Michael S. Berk, Managing Director, TA Associates; David S. Lobel, Managing Partner, Sentinel Capital Partners, and Bob Stefanowski, U.S. Chairman &amp; Managing Partner, 3i Group. 'Grant Thornton partners bring a wealth of experience executing transactions, operating businesses and managing private equity funds, to each transaction,' said Mr. Ferreira. 'We are pleased to participate in this conference and share our practical insights on navigating this difficult dealmaking environment.' Mr. Bernstein, Partner, Financial Services, Grant Thornton LLP, will take part in the panel 'Bank On It: What PE Firms Must do to Successfully Invest in Financial Services Companies and Financial Assets', to be held at 2:35 p.m. on January 27. The panel will discuss the recent role of private equity firms as prominent investors in financial services companies, and what is required of them to do so successfully. Panelists will go into detail on how to identify and manage inherent risks in these businesses, and will outline what opportunities may exist in the year ahead. Shasha Dai, Reporter, Dow Jones LBO Wire, will serve as the panel moderator. The panel will also comprise Reed D. Auerbach, partner &amp; Co-CEO, McKee Nelson LLP; Richard W. Decker Jr., Chairman &amp; Co-Founder, Belvedere Capital; William Doniger, Managing Director, Fortress Investment Group; and Randal K. Quarles, Managing Director, Global Financial Services, The Carlyle Group. 'Technology, globalization, convergence and consolidation are transforming the financial services industry,' said Mr. Bernstein. 'Successful investing, especially in these tough economic times, requires a thorough understanding of the complex and changing world of financial services.' Mr. Schwarz, Partner &amp; Director of Tax Legislative Affairs, Grant Thornton LLP, will be featured in a spotlight presentation entitled 'The Changing Tax Landscape: What Lies Ahead for Private Equity'. In this special session, Mr. Schwarz will give an overview of tax issues that may soon impact private equity firms and their portfolio companies. He will discuss what coming changes mean for private equity professionals, who have long enjoyed favorable treatment related to capital gains. This presentation will take place at 2:15 p.m. on January 27. 'We are very pleased to provide this post-election analysis of what's in store for the tax code,' said Mr. Schwarz. 'The new administration and Democratic gains in Congress have shifted the landscape, and it's highly likely future tax legislation will look very different over the next two years.' For more information on the Dow Jones Private Equity Analyst Outlook 2009 Conference, please visit http://peaoutlook.dowjones.com.   About Grant Thornton LLP   Grant Thornton LLP is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd, one of the leading global accounting, tax and business advisory organizations. Through member firms in more than 80 countries, including 50 offices in the United States, the partners and employees of Grant Thornton member firms provide personalized attention and the highest quality service to public and private clients around the globe. Visit Grant Thornton LLP at www.GrantThornton.com.   SOURCE: Grant Thornton LLP   For Grant Thornton LLP Philip Nunes, 617-556-9982, x227 Phil.Nunes@backbaycommunications.com or Lora DeSanto, 908-642-6981 Lora.DeSanto@gt.com 
