IRISH media conglomerate Independent News &amp; Media has abandoned the sale of its controlling stake in APN News &amp; Media, after last month denying the sale process had stalled.  INM, 28 per cent-owned by media tycoon Sir Tony O'Reilly, said crumbling credit markets made it tough for potential buyers to finance an 'appropriate' bid, despite 'significant interest' in the 39.1 per cent stake.   APN shares fell to $2.01 on the news, before closing at $2.07 -- down 8, or almost 4 per cent, for the day.   INM told BusinessDaily last month the sale process remained on track, despite suggestions advisers Goldman Sachs JBWere and ANZ Bank were having difficulty drumming up interest.   Cash-strapped INM had planned to use proceeds from the sale of APN to help reduce debt of around 1.4 billion ($A2.8 billion).   APN owns The New Zealand Herald, plus regional newspapers, mainly in Queensland, and radio stations and outdoor advertising companies in Australia and New Zealand.   Citi media analyst Digby Gilmour said he was not surprised by the outcome. He said it was 'very difficult' to see a competitive bid scenario emerging for the stake, with the liquidity of credit markets continuing to tighten amid an increasingly uncertain earnings outlook for media companies. 'It's also very difficult with such earnings uncertainty to see a competitive bid scenario from any of the trade buyers in the Australian or New Zealand media market,' he said. The media sector has been battered by the economic slowdown, with a weakened advertising market. EL&amp;C Baillieu senior analyst Ivor Ries said it would have been extremely challenging for INM to find a buyer. 'It's very difficult to get bank finance for any kind of acquisition at the moment, and I imagine trying to get bank finance to purchase a chain of newspapers would be almost impossible,' he said. The failed sale is the latest blow for Sir Tony who, with his brother-in-law Peter Goulandris, controlled about 60 per cent of collapsed manufacturer Waterford Wedgwood.   The billionaire reportedly invested 400 million ($A795.4 million) into the china and crystal maker over five years.   The APN board yesterday said it was pleased to continue its association with INM, spanning more than 20 years. 'We note the comment by INM that there was significant interest in APN and its quality portfolio of media assets, and the fact that the process instituted by INM in October has been impacted by the difficult credit markets globally,' it said. with AAP 
