 - Broadening the scope of its analytics expertise -- both with traditional and proprietary methods -- Gongos Research has appointed Michael Francesco Alioto, Ph.D. to Vice President, Analytics. Alioto will manage the Analytics Department which includes a team of five analysts, and will also join the Gongos Research Leadership Team. In this role, he will fuel the company's ongoing effort to provide clients with analytical thinking and data-driven insights, enabling them to gain an innovative edge in the marketplace.   The company has also appointed Mitch Sanders, Ph.D., currently Research Director in Analytics, to drive the management and strategic oversight of Consumer Village, Gongos Research's proprietary online research community. Specializing in Internet methodologies, sampling and weighting, Sanders will continue to collaborate and consult on analytical solutions for client projects.   Alioto brings 20 years of combined experience in applied global marketing research, advanced product development, custom research design, and forging new methods and hybrid approaches. Critical skills that will translate well to Gongos Research and its clients include strategic consulting, new technique identification, and the ability to synthesize consumer insights within a holistic quantitative and qualitative platform.   Most recently, Alioto was Senior Vice President and Head of the Automotive, Manufacturing and Telecommunications Practice Division at Market Probe Inc. He has also held senior research positions at RDA Group, AMS and Maritz Research. Alioto is an active member of several professional associations, including ESOMAR where he has been a frequent speaker; and holds adjunct faculty status at several academic institutions, including Wayne State University. 'I am thrilled that we have attracted such great minds to our analytics team,' states John Gongos, President and CEO of Gongos Research. 'With the complexities of advanced quantitative methods, Michael and Mitch's strong credentials and academic backgrounds are a great asset to an already proven analytics department.' Since 1991, Gongos Research has worked with leading companies including Best Buy, Hallmark Cards, Mars Inc., Domino's Pizza, U.S. Bank, GM and Polaris. In 2007, the company was first named to the Inc. 5000 list of 'The Fastest Growing Companies in America,' and in 2008 was among the Honomichl Top 50.   Gongos Research is a custom marketing research company that forms trusted research partnerships with companies around the world. Blending strategic thinking, top talent, breakthrough technologies and proprietary software, Gongos' offerings help refine, enhance and advance products and services across many industries. For further insight into the Gongos culture, visit gongos.com.  Two Recent Additions Fuel Advances in Quantitative Research
