NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- RCG Starboard Advisors, LLC, a subsidiary of Ramius LLC, together with their respective affiliates (the 'Ramius Group'), today announced that it has delivered by letter to Orthofix International N.V. ('Orthofix' or the 'Company') (Nasdaq: OFIX) written requests from the holders of approximately 55% of the Company's common stock to call a Special General Meeting of Shareholders (the 'Meeting'). At the Meeting, Ramius will present proposals to elect four new, highly qualified, director nominees to replace four current members of Orthofix's ten-member Board of Directors. The Ramius Group is the beneficial owner of approximately 5.3% of the Company's outstanding common shares.  The relevant provision under the Netherlands Antilles Civil Code provides that shareholders who may cast at least 10% of the votes to elect directors are entitled to request that the Company convene a special general meeting of shareholders for that purpose.  Ramius Partner Jeffrey C. Smith stated, 'The strong support we received from Orthofix shareholders clearly demonstrates that shareholders demand the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. Critical strategic and operational decisions must be made over the following few months and, therefore, we believe it is incumbent upon the current board to embrace the request of shareholders and promptly schedule the special meeting as soon as practicable.'  Added Smith, 'At the special meeting, we plan to propose director nominees who are well-qualified and eager to contribute to the future success of Orthofix. If elected, the Ramius nominees would work constructively with the remaining members of the Board to explore all available strategic and operational opportunities to improve and maximize value for all shareholders.'  Ramius' director nominees are:  Mr. Egan has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Steadman Hawkins Research Foundation, an orthopedic research organization, since November 2006. From April 1996 through May 2004, Mr. Egan served as the President and CEO of Bluebird Development, LLC, a financial partnership with Kobayashi Pharmaceutical Company, an Osaka, Japan-based major distributor of medical devices in J. Michael Egan Asia. Mr. Egan currently serves on the Board of Cardica, Inc., a designer, manufacturer and marketer of proprietary automated anastomotic systems used by surgeons to perform coronary artery bypass surgery, and served as its Chairman from August 2000 until January 2007. Mr. Egan also serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors at iBalance Medical, a privately held medical device company, and is a director of several other privately held companies. Mr. Feld is a Managing Director of Ramius LLC, a position he has held since November 2008. Prior to becoming a Managing Director, Mr. Feld served as a Director at Ramius LLC from February 2007 to November 2008. Mr. Feld joined Ramius LLC as an Associate in February 2005. From June Peter A. Feld 2001 to July 2004, Mr. Feld was an investment banking analyst at Banc of America Securities, LLC, the investment banking arm of Bank of America Corporation, a bank and financial holding company. Mr. Feld currently serves on the Board of Directors of CPI Corp. (NYSE: CPY), a leading portrait studio operator in North America. Mr. Lee has served as the President of SL Consultant Inc., a private investment firm and hedge fund specializing in growing companies in the medical and high technology fields, since 2002. Mr. Lee was the Founder, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of PolyMedica Corporation, a leading provider of diabetes care, from 1990 until August 2002, the time of his retirement from PolyMedica. Previously, Mr. Lee was President and a director of Shawmut National Ventures. Prior to that, from 1984 to 1986, Mr. Lee served as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of RepliGen Corporation, Steven J. Lee a biotechnology company focused on the development of novel therapeutics for neurological disorders. Mr. Lee currently serves on the Board of Directors of Kensey Nash Corporation (Nasdaq: KNSY), a medical device company known for innovative product development and unique technology in the fields of resorbable biomaterials used in a wide variety of medical procedures and endovascular devices and Montreal, Maine &amp; Atlantic Railway, a railroad company with routes and operations in Maine, New Brunswick, Quebec and Vermont, and on the Advisory Board of Capital Resource Partners, an investment fund specializing in combined debt and equity structures that provide creative financing alternatives for middle-market firms. Mr. Orsatti has served as the Managing Partner of Fairfield Capital Partners, Inc., a private equity fund with investments in securities, commercial real estate and business equity investments, since 1995. From 1998 to 2004, he was the Managing Member of Orsatti and Partners, LLC (formerly, J.P. Morgan Fairfield Partners, LLC), a private equity firm. From 1995 to 1998, Mr. Orsatti was a senior consultant to Chase Capital Partners (CCP), a predecessor of J.P. Morgan Partners, LLC. He had previously served as an advisor and business consultant to CCP since 1987. Until 1995, Mr. Orsatti was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Fairfield Medical Products Corporation, a worldwide manufacturer of critical care products sold to hospitals and alternative care facilities. Mr. Orsatti currently serves on the Board of Directors of AngioDynamics, Inc. (Nasdaq: ANGO), a global provider of solutions for musculoskeletal and vascular health specializing in rehabilitation and regeneration products for the non-operative orthopedic, spine and Charles T. Orsatti vascular markets and SRI Surgical Express, Inc. (Nasdaq: STRC), a provider of operating room, supply chain and central sterilization management solutions to hospitals and surgery centers across the United States. Mr. Orsatti previously served as the Chairman of dj Orthopedics, Inc., a global orthopedic sports medicine company specializing in the design, manufacture and marketing of surgical and non-surgical products and services that repair, regenerate and rehabilitate soft tissue and bone, help protect against injury and treat osteoarthritis of the knee, until shortly after its initial public offering in 2001 and remained a Director until November 2007 when dj Orthopedics was sold to affiliates of The Blackstone Group for $1.5 billion. Mr. Orsatti was also the managing partner responsible for sourcing and executing the transaction that ultimately formed dj Orthopedics in 1999. Mr. Orsatti has also held executive positions with British Oxygen Corporation, Johnson &amp; Johnson, Coloplast, A/S Denmark and Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.  
