SAN FRANCISCO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pacific Coast Bankers? Bank (PCBB), one of the nation?s leading bankers? banks, today announced the appointment of Tim Prangley as Vice President and Relationship Manager in the bank?s Southern California office.  Prangley has 38 years of domestic and international banking experience in lending, as well as capital markets, cash management, operations, correspondent banking, and trust and investment services. He will work with PCBB?s relationship management team to assist community banks leverage PCBB?s full range of lending, risk management, deposit, payment and consulting services.?Tim Prangley has a long track record of success in helping financial institutions compete more effectively in the marketplace,? said Steve Brown, PCBB President and Chief Executive Officer. ?Tim?s experience complements PCBB?s existing team of world-class bankers dedicated to providing comprehensive solutions to community banks across the United States.?Before joining PCBB, Prangley worked for Union Bank of California for 18 years in positions of increasing responsibility. Most recently at Union Bank, Prangley was Vice President, National Markets and was responsible for major accounts in the Pacific Northwest. Earlier in his career, Prangley worked for Bank of America, Crocker Bank (now Wells Fargo) and Security Pacific Bank (now Bank of America). Prangley has a Bachelor of Arts in History, a Masters in History and Master?s in Business Administration from the University of Southern California.  About Pacific Coast Bankers? BancsharesPacific Coast Bankers? Bancshares (PCBB) is the holding company for Pacific Coast Bankers? Bank and its broker-dealer, Banc Investment Group (BIG). For over a decade, PCBB has been one of the fastest growing financial services companies dedicated to serving the needs of more than 4,000 community banks across the country. PCBB provides its services with a highly personalized touch and is a leader in the community banking industry. PCBB provides a suite of innovative products and services, including loan participations, cash management, international payments, federal funds, capital markets products, consulting services and bank organizational support across the country. For more information, call 415.399.1900, or www.pcbb.com.
