TOKYO/OTTAWA - Toronto-Dominion Bank said on Wednesday its investment banking arm, TD Securities, is closing its Tokyo office and downsizing in Sydney to centralize operations in Singapore.  The bank will move its Tokyo operations as well as Sydney's sales and trading operations to Singapore, from where it will serve existing clients. Asia is an area where we foresee solid growth opportunities for TD Securities. Having one central operating centre, that being Singapore, will help us grow and it will also help us improve our operational efficiency, Simone Philogene said in an interview. It will help us grow our international fixed income and foreign exchange business in Asia because we've already had an establishment there for some time. It will take 12 to 24 months to wind down the Tokyo office, Ms. Philogene said in an earlier e-mail to Reuters. With respect to Sydney, while our sales and trading clients will be supported by the Singapore office, we will continue to service our existing loan portfolio and obligations from our Sydney office, she wrote. The bank is a strong player in Australian fixed-income markets, and sources at the bank in Sydney said the decision had come as a shock as the business had been doing well.  TD Securities ranked second in Australian bond issues sold in 2008 thanks to strong sales of Kangaroo bonds, or Australian dollar bonds sold by foreign issuers, according to KangaNews magazine, which covers the Kangaroo bond market.  The Australian operation has already laid off some of its staff of around 70, sources said. In Tokyo, the operations has around 17 employees.  TD's decision comes as many U.S. and European banks have retreated from some major foreign investments, including those in Asia, as a result of the global financial crisis.  A string of investors has recently sold stakes in Chinese banks, for example, to reinforce their balance sheets as the economic downturn deepens.  Last week, Royal Bank of Scotland sold its 4.3 per cent stake in Bank of China at a discount. That followed discounted sales by Swiss bank UBS AG, of its 1.5 per cent stake, and by a fund controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing, of 2 billion shares.  Earlier this month, Bank of America sold a 2.5 per cent stake in China Construction Bank.  Canadian banks, though generally stronger than their international peers, are also feeling fallout from the global downturn, such as weaker profits from wealth management or rising loan provisions.  Shares of TD Bank declined 9 cents to $39.33 on the Toronto Stock Exchange at midday on Wednesday.
