Another company headed by Christchurch property developer Dave Henderson is in receivership.  Receivers were appointed to Elgin Investments Ltd on December 5, Companies Office records show.  The company owns the Sydenham Central mall (formerly the Spotlight Plaza) in Colombo Street, the key tenant being a Spotlight store.  Christchurch property management company Livingstones will continue to manage the mall.  Livingstones regional retail portfolio manager Tim Raateland said the mall would continue to operate as normal.  The Press understands the receivers have been appointed to receive rents and income from the mall to ensure mortgagee AXA New Zealand Nominees Ltd is paid as much as possible.  A large area of retail space in the spacious mall, redeveloped by Elgin after it bought the property in 2002, is untenanted.  Shares in the company are owned by investors in Christchurch, Auckland, Wellington, Hong Kong and Australia. The mall has been on the market for at least a year.  Elgin last published a full annual report on the Companies Office website in March 2007, when its properties were valued at $20 million. At that stage it owed the ASB bank $8,793,997 and Hanover Finance $5,644,135.  The company lost $1m in the year to March 2007, but shareholders' equity increased by $2m because of a property revaluation.  Henderson was paid $121,170 director's remuneration 'for provision of personal guarantees of company borrowings'.  The chairman of the board, Wellington businessman Daryl Narain, received $12,000. The company's revenue in that financial year was $780,803.  Other Henderson companies in receivership are Anthem Holdings Ltd and Five Mile Holdings Ltd. Henderson is the director of about 95 companies.  The Christchurch City Council bought five Henderson properties in Christchurch for $17m last year. The properties were regarded as crucial for inner-city development.  Elgin receivers Brendon Gibson and Grant Graham, of Kordamentha in Auckland, could not be reached yesterday. Henderson said it was wrong to say Elgin Investments Ltd had gone into receivership. 'The amounts of indebtedness you have quoted are quite wrong,' he said. He would not say what the company's indebtedness was, nor did he explain how the Companies Office could be mistaken.  A Companies Office spokeswoman said the notification of the receivership on the Companies Office website was correct. It had received no notification the company had come out of receivership.  
