ADVISORY, Jan. 29, 2009 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) --   Feed Information:   The Closing Bell is available from 3:50 p.m. to 4:05 p.m. on AMC-3/C-3 (ul 5985V; dl 3760H). The feed can also be found on Ascent fiber 1623. If you have any questions, please contact Robert Madden at (646) 441-5045.   Radio Feed:   An audio transmission of the Closing Bell is also available from 3:50 p.m. to 4:05 p.m. on uplink IA6 C band / transponder 24, downlink frequency 4180 horizontal. The feed can be found on Ascent fiber 1623 as well.   Webcast:   A live webcast of the NASDAQ Closing Bell will be available at: http://www.nasdaq.com/about/marketsitetowervideo.asx   Photos:   To obtain a hi-resolution photograph of the Market Close, please go to http://www.nasdaq.com/reference/marketsite_events.stm and click on the market close of your choice.   About BroadVision, Inc. (BVSN):   Driving innovation since 1993, BroadVision is a global provider of strategic e-business solutions. Our modular applications and agile toolsets, built on a robust framework for personalization and self-service, power mission-critical web initiatives that deliver unparalleled value to diverse customers worldwide. Hundreds of organizations, serving over 50 million registered users worldwide -- including Audible.com, BAE Systems, Baker Hughes, Canon, City of Jining, City of Tillburg, EFG Bank, Epson America, Fiat, Hilti, Honeywell, Iberia, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation, KongZhong, LaPoste, Oreck Corporation, PETCO, SINA, Solar Turnbines (a subsidiary of Caterpillar), Siemens Medical Solutions, Sony, Standard Bank of Argentina, State of California, Thomas Cook (Indiat), Verifone, Vodafone, U.S. Air Force and Xerox -- rely on BroadVision as their solution of choice for e-business.   About NASDAQ OMX:   The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, and with over 3,900 companies, it is number one in worldwide listings among major markets. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 60 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit http://www.nasdaqomx.com/.   NDAQA  
