Article from:   The Australian  ON Q Group -- the parent company of collapsed technology outfit Bill Express -- will be wound up after an administrator's investigation revealed a web of dubious related-party transactions, including an improper loan to a former director.  Creditors of the failed company, including Vodafone, ANZ bank and collapsed margin lender Primebroker Securities, have been warned that they stand to recoup just $2.7 million of the $69 million they are owed.  Liquidators were appointed to wind up the publicly listed company last month.  On Q Group, which counted billionaire Lindsay Fox as one of its biggest shareholders, was placed into administration last July, after Bill Express collapsed and demanded the immediate repayment of a $22 million loan.  Investigations by the administrator appointed to On Q Group have since identified a number of questionable transactions, including a $3.7 million loan to its former director Peter McDougall.  According to a report prepared by Worrells Solvency and Forensic, several transactions between On Q Group and related parties -- including Mr McDougall and his private companies -- 'did not satisfy the procedural and legal requirements under the Corporations Act for a public company'.  On Q Group has taken court action against Mr McDougall to recover the $2.65 million it claims is outstanding. Mr McDougall, who was voted off the company's board in November 2007, has filed a counterclaim, seeking payment of $7.2 million. The matter will be heard in the Supreme Court next month.  Other issues highlighted in the Worrell report, which was provided to creditors on December 23, include spending by On Q Group on overseas-based consultants, which was poorly documented and appeared to provide no benefit, as well as significant legal expenses, despite the company having limited business operations.  The investigation of On Q's financial accounts also revealed inter-company loan transactions and cash transfers for which the purpose could not be verified, and advances to third parties that were made not in the ordinary course of business.  The administrator also found payments that appeared to be 'suspicious', and had identified potential offences committed by officers.  It noted that On Q Group, which owned 33 per cent of Bill Express, had purchased shares in the technology group at a time when directors might have had reason to suspect insolvency.  The Australian Securities &amp; Investments Commission is believed to be actively investigating the downfall of both companies.  Bill Express, which had debts tallying $250 million, was placed into liquidation shortly after it collapsed in July. On Q Group directors Ian Christiansen and Julian Little, who are both on the board of Bill Express, have blamed inadequate working capital, adverse legal actions and the market downturn for the company's failure.  However, Worrells believes inadequate financial controls, an ineffective corporate structure, poor business judgement and undercapitalisation played a part.  On Q Group and Mr McDougall could not be contacted.  
