The $73 million super fund-backed Investec Global Aircraft Fund is launching a second capital raising exercise in March.  After a year following its first capital raising, the IGAF - which is backed by Australian superannuation funds AUSCOAL Superannuation, Stevedoring Employees Retirement Fund and Seafarers Retirement Fund - is seeking to garner more support from investors as it forges on to grow its asset base.  The first capital raising in early 2008 raised $73 million, which has now been fully invested - bringing total aircrafts assets under management to around $736 million.  'Although IGAF was launched during incredibly difficult financial and economic conditions, we have managed to source and execute a number of significant aircraft transactions during the year that deliver on the Fund's investment strategy in all circumstances - and should provide cash and IRR returns to investors that exceed stated targets,' said IGAF chief operating officer, David Phillips.  The IGAF last month completed the acquisition of two widebody aircraft for the fund, which have been leased to Qantas Airways and China Airlines.  The Qantas transaction involved a 10-year lease of a new-build Airbus A330-200, and further strengthens IGAF's existing relationship with the Australian flag carrier by adding to the two Airbus A321-200 aircraft leased to Qantas in mid-2008.  Financing for the Qantas transaction included various debt tranches provided by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and Investec Bank (Australia) Limited.  The China Airline transaction was IGAF's first with the airline, and involved a sale and leaseback of a 2006-build Airbus A330-300 for a 10-year term.  The China Airline transaction involved various debt tranches provided by the DVB Group Merchant Bank (Asia) Limited and Investec Bank (Australia) Limited.  These transactions bring the IGAF portfolio to seven aircraft since the Fund's inception.  Investec's institutional sales manager Phil Kearns will be assisting the IGAF team with wholesale investment enquiries in the second capital raising.  
