HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- Australian clients of Satyam Computer Services were reviewing contracts awarded to the software company on uncertainty over Satyam's future, after its chairman admitted to inflating its balance sheet by more than $1 billion in India's biggest corporate fraud to date. Satyam's clients such as Qantas Airways, Telstra Corp. and National Australia Bank were among those watching the situation and considering options, according to reports Friday. 'We expect to finalize our new [software outsourcing] arrangements early this year and, obviously, will take the current issues into account,' Telstra spokesman Martin Barr said, according to report in The Australian. Telstra (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) (AU:TLS: news , chart , profile ) was in the midst of halving its information technology suppliers from four, including EDS,  (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Infosys Technologies (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Satyam (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , the report added. A National Australia Bank (AU:NAB: news , chart , profile ) (NABZY:NABZY Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) spokeswoman said the lender was reviewing the situation, but added Satyam has met all its contractual obligations so far, according to the report. Qantas (AU:QAN: news , chart , profile ) , which has five years remaining under a seven-year outsourcing contract it awarded to Satyam, was reviewing its early termination clause and had ensured adequate backup in case the Indian company went under, the report added. The report came after top Satyam officials Thursday said they had formulated an 'action plan' in the wake of founder B. Ramalinga Raju's resignation as chairman after admitting to financial irregularities. Satyam's interim Chief Executive Ram Mynampati said the plan includes an already-started process to 'ascertain Satyam's financial liquidity position and verify allegations made by Raju, with an independent audit being considered. Company executives said they have also 'written to the regulatory authorities and various industry associations for assistance to identify candidates to be new members of Satyam's board.' Even so, Satyam likely faced multiple lawsuits after the scandal broke, with two U.S. law firms announcing class-action lawsuits against the company.  Varahabhotla Phani Kumar is a reporter in MarketWatch's Hong Kong bureau.
