THIS year, while the global banking world falls around them, the big four Australian banks are expected to report a combined profit of about $15 billion.  In contrast, the Royal Bank of Scotland's record-breaking loss reported last night (it lost three times the size of the combined Aussie bank profit) is extraordinary.   Treasurer Wayne Swan is right to be cautious about throwing money at the Australian banks just because offshore banks are falling over.   As discussed in this column a week ago, the locals, led by NAB and Westpac, are pushing for government support to help finance corporate debt refinancing.   One plan is to create a special purpose fund for corporate debt refinancing and another is to mimic French plans for commercial property loans.   The latter would involve the Reserve Bank stepping in to buy the property loans and then re-selling them to the private banks and non-bank financial institutions.   Presumably, this would be done at a profit to taxpayers, but with the aim of ensuring the market is stabilised.   The theory is that, as some big foreign banks will walk from the Australian market, the locals will not be able to fund it.   If this crisis has taught us anything it is that it is foolish in the extreme to declare victory too early.   But at the same time, the tsunami offers extraordinary opportunities for well-capitalised competitors, and the Government should be leery about supporting the healthy when there is a shortage of capital for more needy causes.   The Australian banks are prone to talk up the gloom for their own purposes, when protection of their profit margins is not the only item on the national agenda.   UBS figures show that this year $50 billion in corporate debt will mature, of which $42.5 billion comes from the big four.   Next year, the maturities due increase to $60 billion, with $49.2 billion coming from the locals.   The number tapers off quickly in 2011 and 2012, with about $40 billion due in both years, and $26.4 billion and $33 billion respectively coming from the locals.   There is a shortfall that needs to be bridged and, as ever, the good companies with strong balance sheets, business plans and management will be fine, because they have choices.   These include Wesfarmers, while others such as Pacific Brands have more limited options.   In answering a question on Sydney's 2GB Radio yesterday, Swan showed he was aware of the situation and the dangers, saying: 'We're acutely aware that this could be a possible problem as we move through the year, but not yet at this stage. If it were to emerge as a substantial problem and a threat to business in this economy, the Government would take action at that time. But we're not experiencing that at this stage.' On Deutsche Bank figures, the big four Australian banks reported a combined profit of $16.2 billion in the 2007 financial year, about $15.3 billion last year and, barring any unforeseen write-downs, will match that performance.   Access to funds was indeed a huge problem in the last quarter of the 2008 financial year, but the Government has gone a long way to helping them solve that problem.   The government guarantee has meant each of the big four has been able to tap wholesale markets in the last month to raise about $35 billion.   At the same time, deposit growth is running at more than double historical rates, at between 15 and 20 per cent. As things stand, the Australian banks are not short of capital raising ability and, with projects being cancelled all over town due to the looming recession, the demand for funds has also slowed.   The big four are right to raise potential future problems.   But as Swan noted, right now any push by the banks to get the Government to provide matching funds in special purpose vehicles is simply not justified.   The big four will undoubtedly increase market share this year and there is no reason why the federal Government should help their cause on this victory march. Government support is needed when the market fails and, ironically, one of the problems revealed in the present crisis is that Australia arguably has no Government fixed-interest market.   To put it more accurately, the local market is too thin to be able to finance the recovery on its own, which is always the case, given the small local economy.   A few years back, the former treasurer Peter Costello bowed to market pressure and self-interested lobbying from the then Sydney Futures Exchange to maintain some form of government market.   Given the extent of the economic downturn, there will be no need to maintain a market for the sake of it -- it will be driven by plentiful supply of government debt.   In the meantime, the sharp falls in British and US bank prices have once again inspired the looney-tune brigade to demand a continuation of the ban on short selling financial stocks.   Just why and how Australia being the only market in the world to maintain the ban would help the situation is unclear.   So far, at least Australian regulatory systems have proved to be models for the rest of the world.   It is somewhat galling then to see some use offshore problems as a reason for governments to help them for their own commercial benefit.   Testing time for broadband   AS Telstra's stock price hovers near its lows, the Government's expert panel will this week forward its report to Communications Minister Stephen Conroy on the national fibre network bids.   What better timing, with incoming US president Barack Obama shouting from the rooftops about his plans to push for a national fibre network.   When Conroy fights off his tag as a lap dog for the ALP Left, he may even be able to claim credit for front-running the new president's broadband policy.   Grand expectations sometimes disappoint.   The next step for Conroy is receipt of the experts' recommendation in the next couple of days.   Having already heard from the ACCC on the competition policy aspects of the potential bidders, it all comes down to what the experts say.   If they choose one clear candidate, it should be an easy process of negotiations, with Conroy due to decide by the end of March.   Conroy is due to face Senate estimate hearings in the second week of February, so no doubt the issue will be front and centre at this grilling.   Sadly, the timing of the release of the experts' report is in the Government's hands and the claims for an open process look like falling short by a considerable margin.   This is not good policy because, with Telstra no doubt in the minister's ear, the chances are that, just as it wanted, the decision will end up being decided in the backrooms of Parliament House.   Telstra's arrogance in refusing to comply with the bidding rules means it has lost control of the process, but ultimately it all comes down to what the Government decides behind closed doors.   This said, the concept of using government funds to create a more productive economy is more appealing than yet more tax cuts to selected citizens.
