HONG KONG (MarketWatch) -- Shares of Satyam Computer Services plunged for a second straight session Friday as worried investors dumped them amid concerns the outsourcing giant may be strapped for cash and reports that some clients were reviewing contracts awarded to the company. After crashing 77% on Wednesday, Satyam (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shares slumped a further 60% in Mumbai trading Friday. The stock exchange was closed for a holiday Thursday. The drop came as Citigroup froze more than 30 of its operational accounts after Chairman B. Ramalinga Raju admitted to inflating the software company's balance sheet in India's biggest corporate fraud to date, according to a report in The Economic Times, citing sources. The report added Citigroup aimed to protect its $70 million exposure to the company. Banks also stopped fresh disbursements to Maytas Properties and Maytas Infrastructure - companies controlled by Raju and his family. Satyam's other banks include ICICI Bank (IBN:IBN Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , HSBC (HK:5: news , chart , profile ) (HBC:HBC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Bank of Baroda and BNP Paribas, the report added, citing sources. The plunge in Satyam shares also dragged down the 30-stock Sensitive Index, or Sensex, by 1.2% to 9,477.61 in early Mumbai trading. Friday is the last day for Satyam as a Sensex constituent. After Monday, the stock will be replaced in the benchmark index by Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, the Bombay Stock Exchange said. Satyam shares were also pressured by reports that some of its Australian clients were reviewing contracts awarded to the company on uncertainty over its future. Clients such as Qantas Airways, Telstra Corp. and National Australia Bank were among those watching the situation and considering options, according to reports Friday. 'We expect to finalize our new [software outsourcing] arrangements early this year and, obviously, will take the current issues into account,' Telstra spokesman Martin Barr said, according to report in The Australian. Telstra (TLSY.Y:TLSY.Y Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) (AU:TLS: news , chart , profile ) was in the midst of halving its information technology suppliers from four, including EDS, IBM (IBM:IBM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Infosys Technologies (INFY:INFY Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Satyam (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , the report added. A National Australia Bank (AU:NAB: news , chart , profile ) (NABZY:NABZY Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) spokeswoman said the lender was reviewing the situation, but added Satyam has met all its contractual obligations so far, according to the report. Qantas (AU:QAN: news , chart , profile ) , which has five years remaining under a seven-year outsourcing contract it awarded to Satyam, was reviewing its early termination clause and had ensured adequate backup in case the Indian company went under, the report added. The report came after top Satyam officials Thursday said they had formulated an 'action plan' in the wake of founder B. Ramalinga Raju's resignation as chairman after admitting to financial irregularities. Satyam's interim Chief Executive Ram Mynampati said the plan includes an already-started process to 'ascertain Satyam's financial liquidity position and verify allegations made by Raju, with an independent audit being considered. Company executives said they have also 'written to the regulatory authorities and various industry associations for assistance to identify candidates to be new members of Satyam's board.' Even so, Satyam likely faced multiple lawsuits after the scandal broke, with two U.S. law firms announcing class-action lawsuits against the company.  Varahabhotla Phani Kumar is a reporter in MarketWatch's Hong Kong bureau.
