ANZ Bank is ahead of schedule for its 2008-09 term funding requirements but despite still strong deposit inflows, it does not plan to cut its forecast borrowing needs.  ANZ's funding position underscores the relative health of Australia's domestic banks, which in recent weeks have rushed to soak up cash using the Government's term funding guarantee.  The bank, Australia's fourth largest by market capitalisation, said yesterday it raised almost $6 billion in term wholesale funding during the December quarter but was sticking with its target of about $20 billion for the current financial year, group treasurer Rick Moscati told Dow Jones Newswires.  'When you consider term wholesale debt markets came to a standstill in mid-September and didn't reopen until late December, the fact we're now slightly ahead of our run rate is a great outcome,' Mr Moscati said.  Taking pressure off ANZ's funding needs had been continuing 'very strong' growth in its deposit base, which had given the bank flexibility on its borrowing target, he said.  Despite the firmer base, however, the bank will not be altering its original borrowing plans, group funding head Luke Davidson said.  'If anything, the term funding requirement has decreased due to the unexpectedly strong growth in customer deposits. Nevertheless, as a conservative measure we have not lowered our term funding targets for the year,' Mr Davidson said.  'We expect our balance sheet funding metrics to continue to strengthen,' he said.  Mr Moscati also said ANZ's tier-one capital ratio was in excess of 8 per cent. In mid-December, Melbourne-based ANZ said its tier-one capital ratio was 8.35 per cent.  Illustrating the comparative health of Australia's banks, Commonwealth is also continuing to record strong deposit inflow and will probably not need to meet its full-year borrowing target of $28 billion as loan demand weakens, Treasurer Lyn Cobley told Dow Jones Newswires.  ANZ was among the first to use the sovereign rating to sell debt, when it last month sold a $US1.75 billion bond, which was subsequently increased to about $US2.6 billion.  Investor response to Australian banks using the guarantee has been 'very favourable' and the breadth of buyers is widening beyond bank treasuries to institutional money managers, Mr Moscati said.  In the early trades 'there was skewing towards other bank treasuries that hold such assets for liquidity purposes themselves', he said.  'We are seeing increased participation by traditional triple-A or sovereign buyers -- that is, central banks -- and traditional real money investors.'  The government measure to backstop funding had reopened otherwise closed international public debt markets, but the cost of borrowing remained sky-high, Mr Moscati said.  'It hasn't resulted in any decrease in funding costs. The fact is that the premium for three-year wholesale debt on a guaranteed basis is still in excess of 150 basis points, and five-year money is in excess of 180 basis points.'  Prior to the collapse of banking behemoth Lehman Brothers in September, ANZ could have expected to raise senior debt at about 120 basis points.  Australia's term funding guarantee covers debt out to five years, charging 70 basis points for AAA to AA- rated banks; 100 basis points for A+ to A- rated names; and 150 basis points for BBB+ and below to hire the sovereign rating.  Although the new asset class carries Australia's AAA credit rating, investors are still looking beyond the sovereign to charge a higher premium, Mr Moscati said.  Credit spreads had tightened early in the year but the outlook for the cost of borrowing remained volatile, mr Moscati said.  
