Ask Sam Allardyce how long it has been since he last managed a football club and the response is instantaneous.I was sacked by Newcastle on January 9, he says. And once youre out you feel that distance. You feel the non-involvement.In the 10 months he has spent watching football from as far as away as Dubai and Singapore, Allardyce has noted what, for someone like himself, amounts to a disturbing trend.  A game that used to adore Big Sam now appears to be gravitating towards big-name players. Blackburn have turned to Paul Ince, Portsmouth to Tony Adams, Argentina to Maradona.  Has he had a single offer in that time? No, he admits. The Republic of Ireland were an option but he says it came too soon.Unfortunately, it came immediately after Id left Newcastle and I just wasnt in the right frame of mind, he says.It would have been really interesting, something I wish had come along a couple of months down the line, because at the time I just couldnt have gone head-first into another job.In those early stages my wife would say I didnt take it all very well. I guess I went through the usual emotions. Anxiety, frustration, anger. But you have to move on.'Theres no point being angry forever, pondering why something has happened to you, because Newcastle have moved on. Ive signed a confidentiality clause but I actually wish them the best. I hope Joe Kinnear turns things around. More...     The lack of interest does remain a surprise. That difficult, all-too-brief spell at Newcastle aside, Allardyce was interviewed for the England job and, had Mike Ashley not committed one of many mistakes and dismissed him, he probably would have delivered at St James Park. Now, however, he is even prepared to entertain an offer outside the Barclays Premier League - in the Championship or abroad, to be involved again just for the buzz. I would consider each managers job on its merits, he said. Look at the Championship. Its never been tougher in that League. I dont know the number off the top of my head but there can only be three or four teams in the division that havent had a taste of Premier League football. Allardyce is sitting in a hotel room in Dubai, ahead of what promises to be another busy night. While Ive been patiently waiting for another job in management, Ive been doing a lot of media work, he says. Im out here working for Showtime. Tonight Ill be commentating on the Arsenal game against Tottenham but they will be screening all nine Premier League matches live. Its only since coming to places like this that Ive realised how big the Premier League is. It will be midnight here when the game kicks off and close to 2am by the time it finishes. But the audience will be up to 50million.Not so long ago I also did some work with Steve McMahon in Singapore. Out there it will be 4am before the game kicks off and yet they expect an audience in the region of  250million.'Its incredible when you think about it, because how many people in England would get up at 4am to watch a football match? The most theyd do is record it.Now I can see why Richard Scudamore wants this 39th game. The Premier League is getting global audiences of more than 800million and Richards idea would take the football to the masses. It makes a lot of sense to me because the people are fanatical about their football in places like this.  He has enjoyed the travelling, as well as the time he has been able to spend with his wife. But he is desperate to get back, to taste success again. I dont think I need to prove myself, he says. You dont become a bad manager overnight, even if things do change quickly, even if you can be flavour of the month one  minute and out of favour the next. Im raring to go again. The batteries have been recharged and Iknow, when I look back at my managerial career, that my methods work. I look at the staff I had, at  Bolton as well as Newcastle, and know that I built a good team.I take great pride in what Phil Brown is now achieving at Hull. I helped him along the way and he is now proving that I was right to have him alongside me (at Bolton)-  and so many other former members of my staff have since been employed by other Premier League clubs, at Chelsea, Blackburn, Fulham.They now have their jobs but when I jump back in I will build a new staff in much the same way. Allardyce has been criticised for hisstyle of play, for involving his son, Craig, in some of Boltons transfer business. But he could point to the problems Bolton experienced when Sammy Lee tried to change that style, and never were any accusations, with regard to transfers, levelled directly at him.   It could be a while before he speaks to the BBC again but his reputation remains intact. So why did he not get the Blackburn job? Why did Portsmouth turn immediately to Adams when Harry Redknapp suddenly left for Tottenham?  Perhaps Paul Ince and Adams amount to cheaper labour. Perhaps the two clubs have been seduced by the success Mark Hughes and Roy Keane have enjoyed.I had a chat with Blackburn but I quickly realised it wasnt going to happen, says Allardyce. There was an issue with some of the fans, because of my close association with Bolton. But more than that I could see Paul Ince was their man and I  took a step back.I dont really want to express an opinion on what seems to be a bit of a trend: giving these jobs to young managers. Its the right of every football club to appoint the manager they want.'But well see how things turn out because its a tough old business. Im sure I will soon be back involved. I just have to be patient, and perhaps wait until January.'Thats often a time when chairmen start to panic and make changes, when jobs suddenly become available.   'I know that to my own cost. He does. It was January 9, the day Big Sam discovered he was no longer involved.' More...     
