Rafael Benitez has made it clear he is anxious for an early resolution to contract negotiations he hopes will secure his long-term future as Liverpool manager.  The Spaniard, who is plotting Liverpool's bid for the Barclays Premier League title, believes sorting out his own future will also go a long way to boosting confidence.  'I want the contract done quickly, because the team is playing well,' said Benitez.  'I do not want to be talking about this for weeks and months.  'The team is very strong - you can see the progress. There is a new stadium soon, and I want to be part of the future of Liverpool.  'The length of the contract is important to me. We have been improving the squad for five years - so clearly we know that in the future we can be contenders and we can win more trophies.'  When a potential five-year contract was suggested, Benitez said: 'That would be very good.  'We will have to see, but I would like to be here for a very long time.  'We must do it quickly. Next week there will be meetings, and I hope it can be sorted soon - certainly not too long.  'I would like to see it signed before the end of the month. The owners have to talk to my agent about the conditions of the deal, but clearly the length of the contract is crucial. Stability is the key to winning trophies and being contenders for the title.'  EDITORS CHOICE  A CRIME explosion could follow if crippling cash shortages force the closure of a vital Bromsgrove help centre which has seen hundreds of people pass through its doors since it opened 12 years ago, it is claimed.  SELF-confessed Morris Minor fan Amy Ryder is gearing herself for a once in a lifetime experience on Saturday.  AN intrepid Belbroughton student who jetted off to Brazil to learn more about Britains role on the global stage is meeting Prime Minister Gordon Brown.  THE Lights of Love are set to shine once again in Bromsgrove in what is a special year for the locally based Primrose Hospice This year is the 21st anniversary of the hospice in Aston Fields and its also the 11th year of their Tree of Lights appeal which continues to be the most poignant event in Primrose's annual calendar of events.  TWO post offices in Bromsgrove have been given final notices in a nationwide purge of smaller branches.  A FORMER RAF man received a hearty welcome when he took up a key role in one of Bromsgroves oldest and distinguished institutions.  
