Manager Arsene Wenger brought back his senior players but Arsenal suffered a setback in their Barclays Premier League title challenge as Gabriel Agbonlahor earned a 2-0 victory for Aston Villa at the Emirates Stadium.  Ashley Young had a first-half penalty saved by Manuel Almunia but then helped set up the opener when he crossed for Agbonlahor, with the Villa striker celebrating despite Gael Clichy appearing to get the final touch.  Agbonlahor then added a second 10 minutes from full-time when Villa broke.  Brad Friedel fumbled a straightforward shot from Cesc Fabregas, with Curtis Davies required to hack the ball clear as William Gallas lurked.  Young then missed his penalty in the 20th minute after earning the spot-kick himself.  Mikael Silvestre had cleared only as far as Young after a deep cross caused chaos, with Theo Walcott sliding in when the Villa winger surged back in the box. Almunia went the right way with the weak penalty but it still required a brave tackle from Gallas as Young chased the rebound.  Villa were still taking the game to the hosts and former Arsenal trainee Steve Sidwell volleyed straight at Almunia.  Young almost atoned for his penalty miss with a drive that went just wide of Almunia's post, and he had another effort that went straight at the Arsenal goalkeeper.  Young then crossed for Agbonlahor and the ball glanced past Almunia into his far corner as Clichy challenged.  Agbonlahor claimed the goal and there was no argument about the second when he chased a long ball, held off Gallas and fired home to wrap up the points.  Editor's Choice  Tributes have been paid to a 'lovable' rugby-playing schoolboy who was found dead in tragic circumstances last week.  A hard-hitting film in which a Pembrokeshire dentist relives the horrific death of his wife at the hands of a drink-driver is to be screened in schools to encourage responsible road use among young people.  An advertising employee who cut his teeth at the Western Telegraph was crowned Britain's top salesman last night.  Calls are being renewed for a voluntary ban on imports after a new strain of bluetongue was found in Holland.  The decision by the UKs largest dairy farmer co-operative to host its agm and conference in Pembrokeshire is being seen as a major coup for the county.  Newtown 4. Haverfordwest County 2.  The Sport Pembrokeshire Awards scheme has seen a record number of nominations this year.  Throughout November there are many art exhibitions worth visiting across the county. There is nothing better than beautiful images to brighten up a dull winters day.  Kill for a Seat comedy club is bringing Christmas to the Queens Hall early this year, in the shape of Jarred Christmas, an energetic comedian from New Zealand, who will be MC for tomorrows (Thursdays) event.  
