Newcastle manager Joe Kinnear believes Mike Ashley will have to reconsider his strategy for the club if he cannot find a buyer in the next three weeks.  Owner Ashley has been seeking a buyer since falling from favour with the club's supporters following former boss Kevin Keegan's resignation. Kinnear expects Ashley to reveal the outcome of his sale mission after Newcastle's match against Chelsea on November 22.  He said: 'I think you'll get a statement after Chelsea. I think he will have to - it's been a long time without anything being said now. I was originally brought in for eight games and in that time-span he thought the club would be sold. If it's not, he's got to come up with other ideas.'  Kinnear recently signed a one-month extension to the short-term deal he signed in September, and the former Wimbledon manager is ready to inform Ashley on where the team can be strengthened, to ensure relegation is avoided.  Kinnear, whose team face Aston Villa in the Barclays Premier League on Monday, said of Ashley: 'I think he's prepared to sit down and say, 'Okay, where do we go from here?'.  'He might be more advised by me. I'd probably say we need four players and we maybe need to shift some out. I would advise him to go that route anyway.'  Around the site  After thirteen months on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury Chris Seeby made a goal scoring return to action at Clarence Park on Monday night but was unable to save St Albans City Reserves from going down to a 4-1 Capital League Western Division defeat to Harrow Borough.  Welsh male voice choir Only Men Aloud has launched a bid to beat the X Factor winner to this year's Christmas number one.  The Government has given Lloyds TSB's planned merger with HBOS the green light after overruling competition concerns raised by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).  James Anderson has been left out of England's $20million showdown with the Stanford Superstars on Saturday to accommodate Graeme Swann as a second spinner.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  TRADITIONALLY Halloween is the one night of the year when ghosts and ghouls rise from the dead.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  A group of teenagers were put through their paces this week while training with firefighters in Hatfield.  Jonathan Ross has stepped down from presenting the 2008 British Comedy Awards, ITV announced.  
