Liverpool returned to the top of the Barclays Premier League thanks to Robbie Keane's first two league goals for the club in their 3-0 victory over West Brom.  Keane had only previously scored twice in the Champions League prior to his 12th league appearance for the club since his 20million move in the summer.  But Keane scored in the 34th and 43rd minutes to secure the points and extend Liverpool's unbeaten home record this year. Alvaro Arbeloa added the gloss in injury time.  Fernando Torres made his return after a six-game absence with a hamstring injury, but initially only as far as the bench.  West Brom, who have not won at Anfield in 41 years, set out with a positive approach by opting for two strikers, Roman Bednar and Ishmael Miller, when most sides arriving here barely leave one man up front.  But in the 34th minute Liverpool did take the lead. This time Keane read Steven Gerrard's run and pass into space to perfection and motored onto it to lift his shot over the diving Scott Carson.  And it was Keane who grabbed another to silence the West Brom fans who had been abusing him because of his association with Wolves many years back.  His second came two minutes from the break when he latched onto a fine through ball from Fabio Aurelio after Liverpool had broken with devastating speed as they cleared an Albion corner.  Keane was in yards of space to round the on-rushing Carson before firing an angled drive into an empty net.  Torres' arrival finally came after 71 minutes, in place of the disappointed Keane, who had been striving for a hat-trick. Liverpool had to wait until the final minute for their third, when full-back Arbeloa cut in from the right to fire into the top corner.  Editor's Choice  North Craven could become home to a multi-million-pound flagship extra care centre for the elderly if ambitious proposals put forward by the county council are realised.  A distraught mother who flew to Skipton from Germany to launch a nationwide appeal for her missing son was astonished to find he had gone on holiday to America without telling anyone.  Parts of Skipton town centre will be closed to traffic on Sunday for the Remembrance Day parade.  Councillors have rejected officers advice for a second time and refused a controversial housing development on a huge swathe of greenfield land.  The Craven Heralds Clean-Up Campaign has been hailed a huge success.  An MP has welcomed a decision to hold an inquiry into a nurse accused of killing three pensioners at Airedale General Hospital.  A new support and information group for grandparents across Craven will be holding its first event on Thursday November 20.  The hoggs went away for wintering yesterday. We loaded them on to the cattle wagon off the bridge (it has its uses) and away they went to their winter home near the sea.  
