West Brom manager Tony Mowbray has admitted he is fearful of the outcome of Saturday night's home clash with Barclays Premier League leaders Chelsea if Luiz Felipe Scolari's side are on top form.  Mowbray knows his bottom-placed side are not the finished article and is aware of Chelsea's formidable away league record aswell as them having scored 10 goals in winning the last three matches on their travels at Middlesbrough, Hull and Blackburn.  Mowbray said: 'I understand why we get beaten because I can see the weaknesses in my team, the flaws. You hope things roll our way and they miss chances or have a bad day. But, until you get every part of your jigsaw right, you go into some games feeling fearful. This is one of those games where you are fearful.'  He added: 'I don't think there is any embarrassment about saying it because Chelsea are formidable on their day, as we saw recently at Middlesbrough. It was 5-0 and could have been more.'  Mowbray knows it is crucial Albion do not make any early slip-ups if they are to have a chance of springing a surprise.  'Chelsea have won well on the road, scoring 15 and conceding one in the last five games. If they score two goals in the first 10 minutes, it is a long, long afternoon for you,' he added.  'Yet, if you can stay in the game and have a few shots and get the crowd going, you have a chance to put some doubts into their mind. We need to do that and stop their forward momentum.  'You have got to get them running back towards their own goal because, if you set up to play defensively, they just keep coming and coming and they are going to score because they are too good not to.  'You've got to get Deco running back the other way, get (Frank) Lampard running back so, when they do win the ball back, they are on the edge of their box and there is 80 yards to go before they can score a goal.  'But it is still a game to look forward to. We worked pretty hard last year to get out of the Championship to have fixtures like this to look forward to.'  
