But these disappointing efforts on the Continent are becoming a habit. It will concern Terry that his team have not won in the Champions League away from Stamford Bridge for almost a year.   Trace the form further back and they have won just five of the last 23 away games in the competition. Two of these five were impressive victories in Valencia's Mestalla but the others were against teams considered minnows in the group stages - Rosenborg, Levski Sofia and Anderlecht.   Scroll down for more  Disjointed: Anelka (left) and Terry on a night when Chelsea did not play as a team  Roma were there for the taking on Tuesday, confessed Terry, who was angry with the sloppiness and complacency which took hold of Chelsea in the Stadio Olimpico, the venue for the final in May.   'If we're going to perform like that, we will get nowhere near the Champions League Final,' said Terry. 'We all felt disappointed but the big target is to come back in May. That's what we're all striving for. Based on this performance, we've got no chance.   'It was a terrible night. We knew they'd been struggling with results over the last couple of months and the pressure was on them.   'For the first five minutes you could see the tension in their team but we didn't get out of first gear which is really disappointing. We sort of strolled in, thinking we were better than them when clearly we're not. More...    'We gave them a chance early on and they got a lift. Then they got the goal when nobody picked the man up.   'What was disappointing was that we didn't fight. Even after we went one and then two down we didn't show the fight and desire that's got us where we've been over the last few years.   'Lately, we've been working hard for each other and the movement has been there. We've been getting goals and destroying teams but we went to Roma thinking we could all do it individually - and you can't.   'We need to know that. Maybe that's the kick up the backside we all needed.'   Fury: Dejected Terry after the defeat to Roma  This was Terry biting his tongue. There had been strong words in the Chelsea dressing room at both half-time and full-time, no doubt featuring the string of defensive errors involved in the Roma goals.   'It's sometimes better if you don't speak your mind,' said Terry. 'In the heat of the moment you might say something you don't really mean.'   In Rome, there was also a lesson for Luiz Felipe Scolari, who made tactical changes after deciding to chase the game at 1-0 down only to expose his defence. Chelsea's success has been founded on their reliability at the back but Scolari's adventurous instincts place extra emphasis on individual defenders.  With no Ricardo Carvalho or Ashley Cole in Rome and with John Mikel Obi having a night to forget in front of them, the Italians punished their visitors.   Scolari admitted his team had attacked too freely after switching to 4-4-2 in the second half but Deco, sent off 10 minutes from time, cannot believe the manager will ever change the way he plays.   'We play attacking football and we have to continue this way,' said the Portugal international. 'We have scored many goals but we have to stop the mistakes.'   Chelsea still expect to qualify for the last 16. They are top of Group A and travel to Bordeaux in three weeks - Deco will be banned but Michael Ballack may be fit - before the final group game at home to Cluj next month. First comes a return to the Barclays Premier League at Blackburn.   'It's down to myself to pick the boys up again,' said Terry. 'It will take a couple of days because there's no doubt the dressing room is low after that.   'But the quicker we forget about it and wipe the slate clean the better.   'The last time we conceded three was at Middlesbrough (in February 2006) and we went on a great run to win the league.' 
