Bulls hope to achieve first two-day rally in more than a month. On Tuesday, the major market indices rallied sharply with banks leading the way. In early trading, financials are again rising with Bank of America (BAC) and Citigroup (C) see double digit percentage gains. Though Monday's strength was largely due to short-covering, the bulls would love to see the 7,000 level on the Dow (^DJI) recaptured with the other major market indices recapturing key levels on Tuesday.   Financials have gotten a boost this week due to positive comments from bank leaders. On Tuesday, traders got news that Citi's CEO told employees in a memo that the company was profitable during the first two months of the year. Other financial companies have also got off to a good start this year and this is resulting in sharp gains after the sector took a major hit. Citi shares briefly moved below $1 last Friday, but are currently trading near $1.70. BAC shares are near $5.30 after closing Friday's session at $3.14.  Shares of UBS (UBS) are higher Tuesday despite news that the Swiss bank underestimated its 2008 loss. UBS actually lost $1.02 billion more in the year than initially reported. The bank also stated that its earnings will remain at risk for some time to come. UBS shares are up 3 percent this morning to a price near $8.70, but the stock was trading above $30 a share last May.  In earnings news, Staples (SPLS) reported that profits in the fourth quarter fell 14 percent though the company missed estimates by 6-cents a share. However, sales did rise 16 percent though same-store sales fell 13 percent in North America. Despite the bad news, SPLS shares are slightly higher in early trading, possible because the company declared a dividend of 8.25 percent per share a quarter.  The semiconductor sector has been outperforming the broader market of late, but the sector got bad news from National Semi (NSM) this morning. NSM announced that it would cut more than 1,700 jobs, which is about 25 percent of its workforce. NSM reported a 71 percent decline in third quarter earnings with sales down more than 33 percent. NSM shares are down more than 5 percent in early trading to a price near $11.  Technicians would love to see the 7,000 level hold on the Dow, but this could be difficult with this level rejecting shares so far this morning. Nonetheless, traders would love to see a two-day rally, which hasn't occurred since Feb. 5 and Feb. 6.  Jody OsborneSenior Writer &amp; Options Strategist ~ Your Options Education Site
