PETALING JAYA: Global banking stocks received a shot in the arm, spurred by Citigroup Inc chief executive Vikram Pandits announcement of profit for the first two months of the year. In a memo to staff on Monday, Pandit said he was also confident of its capital strength.  His statement eased concerns about the banks survival prospects. Citigroup shares closed 38.1% higher to US$1.45 each on Tuesday, boosting shares on the Dow Jones which jumped 379.44 points, or 5.8%, to 6,926.49 on the same day.  HSBC, Europes biggest bank, rose 2.3% to HK$38.45 in Hong Kong after its Asia chief executive Sandy Flockhart said there was very strong interest in its rights issue and profit in China was up. Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking Group Ltd gained 3.2% to A$13.15 in Sydney while Commonwealth Bank of Australia rose 3% to A$28.61.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc, the Japanese lender with the largest subprime-related writedowns, rose 5.4% to 176 yen in Tokyo, while Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Ltd, Japans biggest bank, gained 4.1% to 411 yen.  In Malaysia, however, the top three banks that had beaten Citigroup last Friday in terms of market cap closed lower. Malayan Banking Bhd slipped 8 sen to RM4.34; Public Bank Bhd lost 20 sen to RM7.30 and Bumiputra-Commerce Holdings Bhd was down 15 sen to RM6.05.  Tuesdays rally had seen Citigroup overtake Public Bank in terms of market cap. In fact about one hour after Dow Jones opening on Wednesday, Citis shares were trading at US$1.62, boosting market cap to US$8.8bil. Analysts note that Public Bank was trading at its lowest since 2006, mostly dragged by concerns, among others, that it might lower its cash dividend this financial year to preserve capital in challenging times.  Pankaj Kumar, chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans (M) Bhd, said: While the comments do reflect perhaps a turnaround in Citis ability to deliver results after cleaning up its act, it is still too early to tell whether it is a sustainable trend or otherwise.  In Malaysias case, Pankaj said, most of our banks had been insulated from the carnage out there and hence, the recent price weakness among Malaysian banks was driven more by issues related to the respective banks than that of the global phenomena.  Also, as Malaysian banking shares had remained a clear outperformer against their global peers, a rally among the latter might not necessarily mean that our banking stocks too would rebound, he added.  Pong Teng Siew, head of research at Jupiter Securities, believed that the world was on the threshold of another round of crisis, this time triggered by the European banks with large exposure to eastern Europe.  The London Interbank Offered Rate is 107 basis points above the US treasury Fed funds rates  a level that is higher than that in September before the crisis broke out, Pong said. It shows that banks are increasingly suspicious of each other.  Sanjeev Nanavati, CEO of Citibank Bhd, said: In January and February alone, our revenues, excluding externally disclosed marks, were US$19bil.  While our Tier 1 ratio, a primary measure of capital strength, should remain at 11.9% as of Dec 31, 2008, assuming 100% participation in the exchange, from preference shares to common stocks in the US, our tangible common equity (TCE) could increase to as much as US$81bil.  According to Sanjeev, the Smith Barney joint venture and the conversion of the mandatory convertibles is expected to add a further US$14bil to Citis TCE over time.  We have done our own stress testing using assumptions that are more pessimistic than the Fed has outlined, and we are confident about our capital strength, said Sanjeev.  In Malaysia, we are highly confident that between our capital, liquidity and continuing strong operating cash flows, we will continue to maintain our financial strength locally.  New York Stock Exchange:  Nasdaq Stock Market:  
