  Sectors:Financial Services   Retail  Companies:Nucor Corp   Illinois Tool Works Inc   Citigroup Inc   Bank of America Corp   Wells Fargo and Co   Toll Brothers Inc.   Freeport-Mcmoran Copper &amp; Gold Inc   Amazon.com Inc  Breathe easy, people. The Dows 179-point gain on Tuesday means we wont suffer through another Great Depression. The markets move well into the positive signaled the formation of a long-awaited floor in the economy, Cramer said. So banish visions of even greater unemployment and soup kitchens from your head.  But a floor in the economy doesnt equal a bottom in stocks. Thats the catch. Share prices wont head straight up from here. One important thing needs to happen before stocks start their rebound.  Of course, pockets of strength are popping up across the market. Retail sales were better than expected in February. Housing starts also rose that month. Commodities are up. Banks are reporting profits. As a result, companies like Amazon.com  loading...    [AMZN Loading...   ()  ], Freeport-McMoRan  loading...    [FCX Loading...   ()  ] and Toll Brothers  loading...    [TOL Loading...   ()  ] rallied. And banks like Wells Fargo  loading...    [MOS Loading...   ()  ], Bank of America  loading...    [BAC Loading...   ()  ] and Citigroup  loading...    [C Loading...   ()  ] finally bottomed.  Also, the Federal Reserves Term Asset Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, should jumpstart the securitized-loan market, encouraging those banks to lend more. The stimulus is kicking in. Mergers and acquisitions are picking up. And unemployment seems to have leveled off. This good news will most likely continue, Cramer said, as long as President Obama and his administration keep spreading a pro-business message.  But  and this is an important but  stocks wont follow the economy until earnings estimates come down. Theyre still way too high. And thats across the board: steels, oils, housing, aluminum, travel, infrastructure, insurance and tech. Look, Illinois Tool Works  loading...    [ITW Loading...   ()  ] cut its estimates yesterday, and today Nucor  loading...    [NUE Loading...   ()  ] reversed its first-quarter guidance from profits to a loss.  More From CNBC.com  The estimates have to be low enough to beat, Cramer said. The Nasdaqs 2003 bottom happened the same way. So until that happens we might get false bottoms, but no real turn. And we can forget about making a serious move above Dow 8,000.  Cramer's charitable trust owns Freeport-McMoRan and Wells Fargo.  Questions for Cramer?  Questions, comments, suggestions for the Mad Money website?   2009 CNBC, Inc. All Rights Reserved  
