  NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Treasury prices sustained losses as yields pushed higher for a third consecutive session Tuesday, after the government put up for sale a record amount of 3-year notes and stocks rallied, diminishing the relative investment appeal of fixed-income assets. The Treasury Department sold $34 billion in 3-year notes to yield 1.489%. The current 3-year note yield (UST3YR:UST3YRNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) recently increased 10 basis points to 1.45%, up a little since the auction results were released. A basis point represents 0.01%. Bond prices move inversely to their yields. When an issuer is expected to sell more debt, bond investors tend to demand higher yields to hold or buy the securities. Also higher, 10-year note yields (UST10Y:UST10YNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) rose 12 basis points to 2.98%, marking the biggest increase since Feb. 25. Two-year note yields (UST2YR:UST2YRNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) increased 7 basis points to stand at 1.03%, the first time they have topped 1% since Feb. 27. The government also sold $34 billion in 4-week bills (UST1MO:UST1MONews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) at a rate of 0.132% as well as $24 billion in 1-year bills (UST1YR:UST1YRNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) at 0.714%. Investors bid $2.26 for every dollar sold in the 3-year auction, compared with an average of $2.53 at the last four sales. Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes foreign central banks, bought 40.3% of the latest 3-year sale, compared with an average of 36% at the last four sales. Recent auctions of the securities have received good demand from non-dealers, a positive sign that foreign central banks and domestic investment funds wanted the securities, according to Wrightson ICAP. As for Tuesday's bill auctions, both received bids for more than three times the amount being sold. Still on deck this week, the Treasury will sell $18 billion in 10-year notes and $11 billion in 30-year bonds (UST30Y:UST30YNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) . Indeed, bond traders currently find a rich selection of offerings from which to choose. On Monday, Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BACNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) sold $8.5 billion and GE Capital, the financing arm of General Electric Co. (GE:GENews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , sold $8 billion in government-guaranteed debt maturing in three years -- potentially competing with the Treasury for buyers. 'These are pure supply challenges, but the banks' offerings do look kind of generous for the high credit quality backing and we wonder if such detracts from a plain-vanilla, and richer, Treasury 3-year,' strategists at RBS Greenwich Capital said before Tuesday's auction. Citigroup, Bernanke buoys stocks Bonds came under pressure early, as U.S. equities gained. A key catalyst for stocks, the chief executive of Citigroup Inc. (C:CNews , chart , profile , more Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss   Financials Sponsored by:, , ) said the banking giant was profitable during the first two months of the year and is enjoying the best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007, easing concerns about its solvency.  Price for U.S. debt dropped a little further after Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke said that major financial institutions would not be allowed to fail. He also laid out his thinking on a fresh approach to the regulation of financial markets.  Deborah Levine is a MarketWatch reporter, based in New York. E-mail Print   if(gomez != undefined) { gomez.startInterval('Community Module Load'); } if(gomez != undefined) { gomez.endInterval('Community Module Load'); } 
