NEW YORK -- Investors have seen this before.  Since the bear market began in late 2007, the Dow Jones industrial average has fallen into a pattern of huge declines, big gains, and then even larger declines. Four times, the market has rallied only to dissipate.  This past week, the market made a fifth stab at recovery, logging its best performance in months after remarks from bank CEOs and economic data led investors to believe they'd gotten too pessimistic.  More Business Wire  The Dow Jones industrial average rallied for four straight days from nearly 12-year lows, and gained 597 points, or 9 percent - its best week since November. That followed a two-and-a-half month drop in the Dow of nearly 25 percent.  'People have been worried that we're heading into this abyss,' said Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup's chief U.S. equity strategist. 'There are signs that that's not the case, and there is some floor somewhere - that we may have overreacted.'  But is the worst really over?  There's no formula to figure out if this latest rally will stick. But market analysts are watching closely for signs that the worst might be behind us, and they say some good signs are starting to pop up.  'There are little subtle things that have happened that are good - good enough to see that market is trying to establish a near-term bottom,' said John Kosar, market technician and president of Asbury Research in Chicago. 'But it's way, way, way too premature to try to make an argument that this is 'The Bottom.' '  Here are five reasons the market may have bottomed, and five reasons to still fear the bear.  FIVE SIGNS THE MARKET MAY HAVE BOTTOMED:  PUMPED UP VOLUME  Market analysts say two signs of a bottom are the entrance of big institutional investors, because they hold stocks for the long-term, and high trading volumes during rallies. Check, and check.  Pension funds, mutual funds, and insurance funds began snapping up bargain stocks last week after sitting things out for a while, said Stuart Frankel &amp; Co. president Jeffrey Frankel, who works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. And volumes on the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of last week were about 7 to 8 billion shares - similar to those when stocks plummeted the week before.  THE ECONOMY'S BAD, BUT COULD BE WORSE  The U.S. economy might be horrible, but it's not the Great Depression. Unemployment is at 8.1 percent, and expected to rise above 10 percent, but that's nowhere near the 25 percent level experienced in the 1930s. And today, when people are fired, they can collect unemployment. Conditions are a far cry from shanty towns and bread lines.  Plus, the economy's slide appears to be slowing. U.S. retail sales, after stripping out autos, actually rose 1.6 percent in January and 0.7 percent in February.  ZOMBIE BANKS? NOT QUITE.  Before last week, investors were throwing around the term 'zombie banks' to describe the big U.S. banks: Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. The moniker comes from the insolvent, federally propped-up Japanese banks of the 1990s.  But last week, these three U.S. banks said they've actually been profitable so far this year. They're also borrowing less from the Federal Reserve now. Bank borrowing from the Fed fell to $19.6 billion last week - the lowest level since Lehman Brothers collapsed in September, pointed out Miller Tabak &amp; Co. analyst Tony Crescenzi.  THE COMMODITY BOUNCE  It's counterintuitive, but Americans should be happy oil prices aren't falling anymore. After massive price drops alongside stocks over the past several months, crude oil has jumped 16 percent in the past three weeks.  
