Database: Stock Market Historical Data.  NEW YORK - A stunning about-face in bank shares handed the stock market its best week since November.  The market has shot up as much over the past several days as it might in some years, with major indicators chalking up gains of around 10 percent.  Does this mean the stock market has bottomed?  'It's very, very difficult to predict bottoms,' said Gary Jackson of the Southwest Florida Regional Economic Institute.  'It is good news. I'm not saying this is a trend, but it does show that there is hope that we're getting near the point where things will start to improve.'  Jackson said it likely shows some of the measures from the stimulus plan and the Federal Reserve are impacting the economy in a positive way.  Friday's gains in the Dow - 53.92 - were modest compared with huge rallies Tuesday and Thursday, but investors welcomed the moderate buying and the market's ability to hold its ground. Several other recent rallies have ended with disappointing selloffs.  Turning more upbeat, President Barack Obama says his administration is working to create a 'post-bubble' model for solid economic growth once the recession ends.  Also helping the market were remarks from President Barack Obama. He said his administration is working to create a 'post-bubble' model for solid economic growth once the recession ends. He said that means the days of overheated housing markets and 'people maxing out on their credit cards' are over.  But first, Obama said, 'We've got to get through this difficult period.'  Fears have eased that the nation's major financial institutions would collapse or at least require additional government lifelines to stay alive. Market veterans were quick to rein in hopes that the market would chart an uninterrupted recovery but many still saw the four straight days of gains a good sign.  'The biggest question for investors now is, 'Have we put in the lows and is it safe to get back into the water?'' said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at RDM Financial Group.  The Dow Jones industrial average rose 53.92, or 0.8 percent, to 7,223.98. The Dow hadn't put up four straight gains since late November.  For the week, the Dow jumped 9 percent, its best week since rising 9.7 percent in the week ended Nov. 28.  Other market indicators also gained. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index rose 5.81, or 0.8 percent, to 756.55. The Nasdaq composite index rose 5.40, or 0.4 percent, to 1,431.50.  The S&amp;P 500 index added 10.7 percent for the week and the Nasdaq rose 10.6 percent.  The turnaround began Tuesday as the head of Citigroup Inc. said the bank had managed to turn a profit in the first two months of the year. That helped lift the cloud of worry that has cloaked financial stocks since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September.  Traders who last week pounded Citi shares to below $1 began buying the stock again. The gains in the beaten-down industry were enormous: Citi surged 73 percent for the week, Bank of America Corp. jumped 83 percent and Wells Fargo &amp; Co. rose 62 percent.  
