,  GE (Cramer's Pick) ,  C ,  BAC ,  JPM ,  HPQ ,  AXP  A Little Uncertainty  More on GE  Market Activity  American Express Company  AXP  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  (At 11:57 a.m. EDT)  Not awful, but nothing convincing, either. The Dow was recently up 29 points at 6956 a day after its massive rally, and at one point, the index got above 7000. Hard to believe that's worth celebrating, but these are the times in which we live.  Winners were outpacing losers 17 to 13 at midsession, with Hewlett-Packard (HPQ Quote - Cramer on HPQ - Stock Picks) leading the gainers, up 4.4%. Bank of America (BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) and Citigroup (C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) remained in the green as the financial sector rose again.  Unfortunately, the banks had been stronger a few hours ago. Both Citi and BofA were posting double-digit increases, so some of the momentum that was extending the rally has vanished.  For instance, General Electric (GE Quote - Cramer on GE - Stock Picks) wasn't able to hang on to its early rise, pulling back from a high of $9.36 to trade down 2.5% to $8.65. American Express (AXP Quote - Cramer on AXP - Stock Picks), following its downgrade by Goldman, had the steepest percentage decline at the halfway point, falling 5.6%.  If the Dow can stay above the flat line, it will be the first time it's moved up on consecutive days since early February. Whether it in fact can is still far from certain.  Dow Bids to Extend Rally  (At 9:05 a.m. EDT)  At this point, the Dow looks like it actually might be able to have another advance. Of course, trading hasn't started yet, and 4 p.m. EDT is a long way away, but futures are pointing to a higher open Wednesday.  Citigroup (C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks), Bank of America (BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM Quote - Cramer on JPM - Stock Picks), big percentage gainers one day ago, were all rising in premarket trading. General Electric (GE Quote - Cramer on GE - Stock Picks) was also climbing.  Has the U.S. stock market reached its bottom?  
