(RTTNews) - Citigroup Inc. (C) was profitable through the first two months of 2009 and was having its best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007, CEO Vikram Pandit said in a memo to the company's employees. He also said that the company was confident about its capital strength after tough internal stress tests. However, Pandit expressed disappointment with the company's current stock price and the broad-based misperceptions about the company, which according to him did not reflect the strength of Citigroup. The company's stock is currently up 16% in Tuesday's pre-market trading.   The CEO's comments come as Citigroup's share price, which once made it the world's biggest bank by market capitalization, plunged last week to near $1 per share, and after the cost of insuring the company's debt against default hit a record on Monday. Shares of banks dropped to their lowest levels in decades last week, owing to tumbling of the broad stock and bond markets. On March 5, Citigroup saw its shares being dumped below $1 to reach a low of $0.97, as investors worried about the viability of the bank and the possibility of nationalization.   In a memo to Citigroup's employees filed Tuesday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Pandit said that the company needed to focus on two key issues, namely, capital strength and earnings power. According to Pandit, the preferred exchange announced by Citigroup nearly two weeks ago is expected to make the company the strongest capitalized U.S. bank as measured by tangible common equity, or TCE, and Tier 1 ratios.   Pandit noted that while the Tier 1 ratio will remain at 11.9% as of December 31, 2008, assuming 100% participation in the exchange, the company's TCE would increase to as much as $81 billion. He further said that despite the addition of TCE, people continued to question Citigroup's capital strength due to its net deferred tax asset and the quality of its assets.   In an attempt to allay concerns about the company's asset quality, Pandit said in the memo, 'We've done our own stress testing using assumptions that are more pessimistic than the Fed has outlined and we are confident about our capital strength.' Pandit also said that even if near-term conditions deteriorate significantly, Citigroup expects to realize the majority of its deferred tax assets of $44 billion. The Smith Barney joint venture and the conversion of mandatory convertibles is expected to add another $14 billion to the company's tangible common equity over time, Pandit said.   As of December 31, 2008, Citigroup has $30 billion in loan loss reserves, or 4.3% of loans. The company noted that this was the highest among large U.S. peers. Loan loss reserves are another form of capital. 
