News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  shares rose about 8% and helped lift the broader banking and financial sectors after it said its business has been strong in the first two months of the year, and it expects its integration of Wachovia Corp to cost less than previously expected. Wells also cuts its dividend 85% in a move it said would help it strengthen capital levels and speed its payoff of the government's recent $25 billion investment in the firm. Wells is the second bank this week, after Bank of America  (BAC:  BAC  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , to say that first-quarter business is strong. In the broader sector, the KBW Bank ETF  (KBE:  KBE  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  rose about 1%, while the Financial Select Sector SPDR  (XLF:  XLF  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , which tracks the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, rose 0.5%.  Print  Disable Live Quotes  Subscribe to RSS  More Market Pulse  5 minutes ago  12 minutes ago  12 minutes ago  Top stories  45 minutes ago  44 minutes ago  7:00 AM today  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2009 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
