Seven Summits Strategic Investments' PriceWatch Alerts are available at http://www.iotogo.com/s/031709C (Note: You may have to copy this link into your browser then press the [ENTER] key.)  Today's PriceWatch Alerts cover the following stocks: Bank of America Corporation (NYSE: BAC), Apache Corp. (NYSE: APA), Lockheed Martin Corporation (NYSE: LMT), Sohu.com Inc. (Nasdaq: SOHU), and Southern Company (NYSE: SO).  Along with our PriceWatch Alerts, these brief reports contain a concise market overview, economic calendar and current news leaders and laggards. PriceWatch Alerts include hedged trade ideas designed to potentially protect investors from unexpected market shifts. While other market reports only provide stock news, we offer strategies that hedge investments against uncertainty. Hedged trades increase your chances of making a profit, even if a stock goes down. 'Our PriceWatch Alerts go beyond other market reports. Along with a brief concise market overview, each PriceWatch Alert provides useful strategies, which ensure potential investments are protected with basic hedging techniques,' says Reid Stratton  For essential information on stocks poised to move go to: http://www.iotogo.com/s/031709C for Seven Summits Strategic Investments' PriceWatch Alerts.   Seven Summits Investment Research is an independent investment research group, which focuses on the U.S. equities and options markets. Our analytical tools, screening techniques, rigorous research methods and committed staff provide solid information to help our clients make the best possible investment decisions. For more information go to www.SevenSummitsInvestmentResearch.com. CRD# 137114  Top 5 Stocks to Beat the Bear Market. Don't buy into the gloom that has gripped investors everywhere. While there are certainly serious challenges ahead for the market and economy, a disciplined strategy can drastically reduce your risk and ensure profits even in troubled times. Get Louis Navellier's Top 5 Stocks &amp; don't miss out on the lion's share of the profits. Click here to find out about these five companies NOW!  www.investorplace.com/order/?sid=mq2102  All stocks and options shown are examples only -- not recommendations to buy or sell. Our picks do not represent a positive or negative outlook on any security. Potential returns do not take into account your trade size, brokerage commissions or taxes -- expenses that will affect actual investment returns. Stocks and options involve risk, thus they are not suitable for all investors. Prior to buying or selling options, a person should request a copy of Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options available from Catherine at 800-698-9101 or at http://www.cboe.com/Resources/Intro.aspx. Privacy policy available upon request.  SOURCE Seven Summits Investment Research
