 Belgian brewer InBev hired JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co., BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank as lead managers for a stock sale to help fund its proposed $46.3 billion takeover of Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc., Belgian newspaper De Tijd reported Wednesday. Without disclosing how it obtained its information, De Tijd reported that Fortis, ING Groep NV, Royal Bank of Scotland and Banco Santander SA also were appointed as joint managers. It is not known how much InBev plans to raise by selling stock, according to the publication. An InBev spokeswoman was not immediately available for comment. InBev informed A-B June 25 that it paid approximately $50 million in commitment fees to its lending group, demonstrating its resolve to make a deal happen. The company's lending group is comprised of Banco Santander, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, Fortis, ING Bank, JP Morgan, Mizuho Corporate Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland. Anheuser-Busch director Douglas Warner III was chairman of JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. in New York until he retired in November 2001. On June 26, A-B formally rejected InBev's proposal, calling the $65-per-share offer 'financially inadequate and not in the best interests of Anheuser-Busch shareholders.' In his company's first statement since the rejection, InBev CEO Carlos Brito said on Tuesday that InBev is committed to its $65-per-share offer price for A-B and said the brewer 'will pursue all available avenues' to allow A-B shareholders to have a direct voice in the process. InBev already has been making preparations to take InBev's takeover offer hostile by either organizing the removal of Anheuser-Busch board members or by taking InBev's offer directly to Anheuser-Busch shareholders. St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc. (NYSE: BUD), through its Anheuser-Busch Inc. subsidiary, is the leading domestic brewer, holding a 48.5 percent share of U.S. beer sales. The company also manufactures and recycles aluminum cans and operates theme parks. Spicy story: This herbalist had the training to take on the spice business.Getting leverage: She got off to a good start.The pitch: You need to get your funding pitch down pat.New homes: Company lands deal to look for earth-like planets.Cubicle creativity: Your cubicle doesn't have to be dull.Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!Walk into Gracewinds, an inviting storefront in Seattle's Ballard neighborhood, and you immediately feel at ease. It's a warm, old-shoe kind of place, with comfortable couches, murals and paintings on the walls, oriental carpets, and brightly colored woodwork. 
