 Belgian brewer InBev hired , BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank AG as lead managers for a stock sale to help fund its proposed $46.3 billion takeover of Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc., Belgian newspaper De Tijd reported Wednesday. Without disclosing how it obtained its information, De Tijd reported that Fortis, ,  and Banco Santander SA also were appointed as joint managers. It is not known how much InBev plans to raise by selling stock, according to the publication. An InBev spokeswoman was not immediately available for comment. InBev informed Anheuser-Busch June 25 that it paid approximately $50 million in commitment fees to its lending group, demonstrating its resolve to make a deal happen. The company's lending group is comprised of Banco Santander, , Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, Fortis, ING Bank, JP Morgan,  and . Anheuser-Busch director Douglas Warner III was chairman of  in New York until he retired in November 2001. On June 26, Anheuser-Busch formally rejected InBev's proposal, calling the $65-per-share offer 'financially inadequate and not in the best interests of Anheuser-Busch shareholders.' In his company's first statement since the rejection, InBev CEO Carlos Brito said on Tuesday that InBev is committed to its $65-per-share offer price for Anheuser-Busch and said the brewer 'will pursue all available avenues' to allow Anheuser-Busch shareholders to have a direct voice in the process. InBev already has been making preparations to take InBev's takeover offer hostile by either organizing the removal of Anheuser-Busch board members or by taking InBev's offer directly to Anheuser-Busch shareholders. Anheuser-Busch is the main competitor to MillerCoors LLC, the U.S. brewer launched Tuesday by the merging of Milwaukee-based Miller Brewing Co. and Golden, Colo.-based Coors Brewing Co. St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc. (NYSE: BUD), through its Anheuser-Busch Inc. subsidiary, is the leading domestic brewer, holding a 48.5 percent share of U.S. beer sales. The company also manufactures and recycles aluminum cans and operates theme parks. The St. Louis Business Journal is a sister publication of The Business Journal Serving Greater Milwaukee.
