The first rung on the property ladder may be easier to reach following the launch of a specially designed account.Banks and other financial institutions are offering a new type of savings product - the first home saver account. Designed by the Australian Government to make it easier for people to save a home-loan deposit and launched on October 1, the accounts provide a combination of concessional tax on interest earned and a Government contribution. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority has, so far, received notification from 19 financial institutions that plan to provide first-home saver accounts. ANZ and Commonwealth are the only big banks ready to go. Others include AMP Banking, Laiki Bank and several credit unions.Critics of the Government's initiative are sceptical that the accounts will attract much business but competitive rates of 7 per cent or more indicate that financial institutions believe there will be interest and they are keen to get their share.AMP Banking has taken the most aggressive approach among the banks. It is paying an introductory rate of 8 per cent to the end of December and an ongoing rate of 7 per cent.ANZ is paying 6.99 per cent but has structured the account along the lines of a bonus saver. To get 6.99 per cent, customers will have to make monthly deposits.Commonwealth Bank is providing 6.5 per cent. Hunter United Credit Union is providing the highest rate so far, 7.07 per cent.Banking industry research group Cannex reports that only a handful of financial institutions had provided their account details by October 1. This may reflect some uncertainty about how to set rates for the new product.Conditions have to be met before an individual can open an account. Customers must be aged between 18 and 65 and be first-time home buyers.To qualify for the concessions, the customer must make personal after-tax contributions (deposits cannot be made by salary sacrifice) of at least $1000 a year over four financial years. However, they do not need to be consecutive years.Account balances are capped at $75,000 (that amount will be indexed). A customer can operate only one account at a time.Interest earned on account balances will be taxed at 15 per cent (interest earnings are usually taxed at marginal rates). The tax will be paid by the account provider and not the customer.The Government will contribute 17 per cent on the first $5000 deposited each year over four years, meaning account-holders can qualify for up to $3400 from the Government.
