Beware, the ''dogs of war'' have been unleashed.German shepherd Eric Abetz and Dobermann Don Rand are prowling around the corridors of power, baring their teeth at Treasury secretary Ken Henry and Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens.Many years ago, West Australian Liberal Mr Rand said Cheryl Kernot had the ''morals of an ey cat on heat'' when she defected from the Democrats to Labor.Mr Rand suggested yesterday the Reserve Bank boss had been ''caught out'' on interest rates.''In a way to cover the Government's inept behaviour, they are bringing down interest rates at probably the most rapid rate Australia has ever seen. It rey is chaotic, shambolic,'' Mr Rand said.He came to question time with his tail between his legs. ''My comment ... about the Reserve Bank was ill-considered, wrong, and I withdraw it,'' he said in an apology tabled in Parliament.A day earlier, the Liberals' Senator Abetz mauled Dr Henry when the senior bureaucrat appeared before the estimates committee.Prime Minister Kevin Rudd argued the pair were members of a pack let loose by Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull.''He ... unleashes the dogs of war in the Senate ... through Senator Abetz, in a scripted script from the Leader of the Opposition's office, where Senator Abetz attacked the integrity of the secretary to the Treasury,'' Mr Rudd told Parliament.''And what did the Leader of the Opposition do about that? Nothing whatsoever. Early this week, the Member for North Sydney questioned whether the word of the secretary to the Treasury counted for anything at .''Liberal Member for North Sydney Joe Hockey who is like a Labrador-bull terrier cross launched the first phase of the ''dogs of war'' campaign.Mr Rand was sent as reinforcement, according to Mr Rudd who said ''phase two was the Member for Canning ... attacking the integrity and independence of the governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia''.MPs routinely ask 20 questions but the session was cut short 16 shy of the quota when Mr Turnbull moved a censure motion against Mr Rudd and Treasurer Wayne Swan.''Prime Minister loves to talk about leaving no stone unturned,'' Mr Turnbull said.''It might be better to say, in his case, he leaves no cliche unuttered. One of his favourite cliches today is 'letting loose the dogs of war'.''There is no snappier dog of war than the [Labor] Member for Grayndler, and he was in here, full of indignation, taking up two hours of the Parliament's time because he was concerned about the reputation of Dr Henry so it was said.''Member for Grayndler Anthony Albanese was dubbed a ''mangy dog'' by a Labor colleague in the course of a dispute three years ago over the party's forests policy for Tasmania. 
