 Change font size EElesha Martin wanted investigators to believe that she didn't know what started a fire that burned the Maumelle house she was renting. The 36-year-old, who had been making a living sewing children's clothes, had taken out a $100,000 renter's insurance policy just two days before the fire started in 2005, according to Martin's criminal file at the Arkansas Insurance Department. But it wasn't Martin's first house fire. In 2004, she also purchased a renter's insurance policy just before a fire had burned her rental home in Cammack Village. Her insurance company paid her $80,000 for that claim. In the Maumelle fire, however, investigators became suspicious and turned the case over to the Insurance Department's Criminal Investigation Division. Martin eventually pleaded guilty in 2007 to crimes associated with the fires and was sentenced to 20 years in state prison, with seven years suspended, and ordered to pay $515,000 in restitution. 'This is one of the heaviest sentences I have seen for an arson-related conviction in Arkansas since coming to the state in 2000,' Maumelle Fire Chief George Glenn wrote in a letter to the Insurance Department. Years ago, a case such as Martin's might have resulted in probation, said Cory Cox, director of the Insurance Department's Criminal Investigation Division. But not anymore. Cox, who was named director of the CID in June 2005, said his goals as director are to spread the word about insurance fraud and fight for stiffer penalties. The number of insurance fraud claims reported to the Arkansas Insurance Department has been rising over the years. Through the end of September, the Arkansas Insurance Department had 373 reports of various types of insurance fraud compared with 357 during the same period in 2007. And for all of 2006, 389 reports of fraud were filed, compared with 360 in 2005. 'We expect that in an economic downturn that you're going to see an increase' in the number of fraud cases, Cox said. The increasing number of reports also could be tied to Cox's efforts to educate Arkansans about insurance fraud and its impact. Nationwide estimates put insurance fraud losses at anywhere from $80 billion to $120 billion annually, Cox said. A loss figure for Arkansas was unavailable. Cox is pushing for convictions 'so that we can send the message' that insurance fraud won't be tolerated, he said. [  ][ continue ][ view page: 1 2 3 4 ][  ] today's headlines
