How comes I&amp;#8217;m not surprised at this? The Conservative party have taken large donations from hedge-fund managers whose firms made vast sums of money from taking bets in some of Britains crisis-hit banks. David Cameron, the Tory leader, has accepted almost 2m from hedge-fund managers who took bets on banks such as Halifax Bank of Scotland, which was forced into an emergency rescue by Lloyds TSB, and Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley, which has just been nationalised. The practise of taking down bets on shares, known as short-selling, has now been temporarily banned by the Financial Services Authority, the City watchdog, for all bank stocks. However Cameron and his Shadow Chancellor George Osborne refused to criticize this practice earlier in September. A string of the hedge funds have been offered membership of an exclusive dining club reserved for backers who give 50,000 or more to the Conservative party. Cameron has given small dinner parties for members of the so-called Leaders Group, where the donors get to chat in private to the Conservative leader. Mr Cameron denied he was steering clear of criticizing bankers and hedge fund managers because they contributed heavily to Tory coffers. &amp;#8220;They don&amp;#8217;t have any influence on my policy at all, he said. Of course they don&amp;#8217;t David. Whats that&amp;#8230;Sorry for the interuption, I just noticed a pig flying past my window. The disclosure that the Tories are being funded by wealthy businessmen(which political party isn&amp;#8217;t these days), whose firms aim to make huge profits by betting that the value of shares will fall, will not help Camerons efforts to persuade voters that he is the man to guide the country through an economic downturn. Six leading hedge-fund managers are eligible to be members of Mr Camerons Leaders Group, which entitles members to personal access to the Conservative leader, including small private dinners.What makes it all the more hilarious is Cameron said in March 2006 he was setting out to reform his party&amp;#8217;s funding policies, to clean up politics and that he would &amp;#8216;expunge the impression, now deep in the public mind, that influence, access and honours can be bought by wealthy institutions&amp;#8230; and individuals&amp;#8217;. Its no wonder he has refused to blame greedy City practices for the current financial crisis. While a hell of a lot of the blame can be levelled at Politicians, the blame must also be levelled at those individuals, organisations, Hedge funds etc, who &amp;#8220;buy influence&amp;#8221; over political parties in the form of donations. So with the frightening possibilty that Mr Cameron will become the next prime minister, he had better saddle up and get ready to ride the same economic policies from current and previous Governments that got us into this mess in the first place. 
