By F. William Engdahl &amp;nbsp; 9 Oct, 2008 &amp;nbsp;  What's clear from the behavior of  European financial markets over the past two weeks is that the dramatic stories  of financial meltdown and panic are deliberately being used by certain  influential factions in and outside the EU to shape the future face of global  banking in the wake of the US sub-prime and Asset-Backed Security (ABS) debacle.  The most interesting development in recent days has been the unified and strong  position of the German Chancellor, Finance Minister, Bundesbank and coalition  Government, all opposing an American-style EU Superfund bank bailout. Meanwhile  Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson pursues his Crony Capitalism to the detriment  of the nation and benefit of his cronies in the financial world. It's an  explosive cocktail that need not have been.  Stock market falls of 7 to 10% a day make  for dramatic news headlines and serve to foster a broad sense of unease  bordering on panic among ordinary citizens. The events of the last two weeks  among EU banks since the dramatic state rescues of Hypo Real Estate, Dexia and  Fortis banks, and the announcement by UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair  Darling of a radical shift in policy in dealing with troubled UK banks, have  begun to reveal the outline of a distinctly different European response to what  in effect is a crisis 'Made in USA.'  There is serious ground to believe that US  Goldman Sachs ex CEO Henry Paulson, as Treasury Secretary, is not stupid. There  is also serious ground to believe that he is actually moving according to a  well-thought-out long-term strategy. Events as they are now unfolding in the EU  tend to confirm that. As one senior European banker put it to me in private  discussion, 'There is an all-out war going on between the United States and the  EU to define the future face of European banking.'  In this banker's view, the ongoing attempt  of Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and France's Nicholas Sarkosy to get  an EU common 'fund', with perhaps upwards of $300 billion to rescue troubled  banks, would de facto play directly into Paulson and the US establishment's  long-term strategy, by in effect weakening the banks and repaying US-originated  Asset Backed Securities held by EU banks.  Using panic to centralize  power As I document in my forthcoming book,  Power of Money: The Rise and Decline of the American  Century, in every major US  financial panic since at least the Panic of 1835, the titans of Wall Streetmost  especially until 1929, the House of JP Morganhave deliberately triggered bank  panics behind the scenes in order to consolidate their grip on US banking. The  private banks used the panics to control Washington policy including the exact  definition of the private ownership of the new Federal Reserve in 1913, and to  consolidate their control over industry such as US Steel, Caterpillar,  Westinghouse and the like. They are, in short, old hands at such financial  warfare to increase their power.  Now they must do something similar on a  global scale to be able to continue to dominate global finance, the heart of the  power of the American Century.  That process of using panics to centralize  their private power created an extremely powerful, concentration of financial  and economic power in a few private hands, the same hands which created the  influential US foreign policy think-tank, the New York Council on Foreign  Relations in 1919 to guide the ascent of the American Century, as Time founder  Henry Luce called it in a pivotal 1941 essay.  It's becoming increasingly obvious that  people like Henry Paulson, who by the way was one of the most aggressive  practitioners of the ABS revolution on Wall Street before becoming Treasury  Secretary, are operating on motives beyond their over-proportional sense of  greed. Paulson's own background is interesting in that context. Back in the  early 1970's Paulson started his career working for a rather notorious man named  John Erlichman, Nixon's ruthless adviser who created the Plumbers' Unit during  the Watergate era to silence opponents of the President, and was left by Nixon  to 'twist in the wind' for it in prison.  Paulson seems to have learned from his White  House mentor. As co-chairman of Goldman Sachs according to a New York Times  account, in 1998 he forced out his co-chairman, Jon Corzine 'in what amounted to  a coup' according to the Times. Paulson, and his friends at Citigroup and JP  Morgan Chase, had a strategy it is becoming clear, as did the Godfather of Asset  Backed Securitization and deregulated banking, former Fed Chairman Alan  Greenspan, as I have detailed in my earlier series here, Financial Tsunami,  Parts I-V.  Knowing that at a certain juncture the  pyramid of trillions of dollars of dubious sub-prime and other high risk home  mortgage-based securities would come falling down, they apparently determined to  spread the so-called 'toxic waste' ABS securities as globally as possible, in  order to seduce the big global banks of the world, most especially of the EU,  into their honey trap.  They had help. In recent testimony under  oath by Mr Lynn Turner, Chief Accountant of the Securities &amp;amp; Exchange  Commission (SEC) testified that the SEC Office of Risk Management which had  oversight responsibility for the Credit Default Swap market, an exotic market  worth nominally some $62 trillions, was cut in Administration 'budget cuts' from  a staff of one hundred down to one person. Yes, that was not a typo. That's one  as in 'Uno.'  Vermont Democratic Congressman Peter Welsh  queried Turner, '... was there a systematic depopulating of the regulatory force  so that it was impossible actually for regulation to occur if you have one  person in that office? ...and then I understand that 146 people were cut from  the enforcement division of the SEC, is that what you also testified to?' Mr.  Turner, in Congressional testimony replied, 'YesI think there has been a  systematic gutting, or whatever you want to call it, of the agency and it's  capability through cutting back of staff.'  Was that just ideological budget cutting  fervor, or was it deliberate? Was former Goldman Sachs man, the man who  convinced the President to hire Paulson, Bush's former  Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB),  Joshua Bolten, now the President's Chief of Staff, responsible for insuring  there was no effective government oversight on the exploding securitization of  mortgage assets?  These are perhaps some questions which the  good Congressmen in both parties ought to be asking people like Henry Paulson  and Josh Bolten, and not such red herring questions as how large Richard Fuld's  bonus pay at Lehman was. Are Mr Bolten's fingerprints on the corpse here? And  why is no one questioning the role of Paulson as CEO of Goldman Sachs, then the  most aggressive promoter of exotic and other Asset Backed Securitization  products on Wall Street?  Why did Henry Paulson single out one Wall  Street firm, a bitter rival of his when he was CEO of Goldman Sachs according to  market reports, and let it, as his mentor Erlichman was fond of saying, 'to  twist in the wind.' It is the Lehman Bros. unwinding and its huge portfolio of  Credit Default Swaps which is reportedly leading hedge funds and banks around  the globe into panic selloffs.  It now would appear that the Paulson  strategy was to use a crisisa crisis that was pre-programmed and predictable as  far back as 2003 when Josh Bolten became head of OMBwhen it exploded, to panic  the more conservative European Union governments into rushing to the rescue of  US toxic waste assets.  Were that to have happened, it would in the  process destroy what was left of sound EU banking and financial institutions,  bringing the world one step closer to a global money market controlled by  Paulson's croniesUS-style Crony Capitalism. Crony Capitalism is certainly  appropriate here. Paulson's predecessor at both Goldman Sachs and at Treasury,  Robert Rubin, liked to accuse the Asian bankers of Thailand, Indonesia and other  lands hit with the speculative attacks of US-financed hedge funds in 1997 of  'crony capitalism,' leaving the impression the crisis was home grown in Asia and  not the result of a deliberate executed attack by US-financed financial  institutions to eliminate the Asia Tiger model among other goals, and turn Asia  into the funder of US debt.  Interesting to note is that Rubin is now a  Director of Citigroup, obviously one of Paulson's crony bank 'survivors,' and  the bank which to date has had to write off the largest sum in toxic waste  securitized assets.  If the allegation of pre-planned panic, a la  the Panic of 1907 is accurate, and it is a big if, then the plan workedup to a  point. That point came over the weekend of October 3, coincidentally the  national unification holiday of Germany.  Germany breaks with US model In closed door talks well into the evening  of Sunday October 5, Alex Weber the hard-nosed head of the Bundesbank, BaFin  head Jochen Sanio and representatives of the Berlin coalition Government of  Chancellor Merkel came up with a rescue package for Hypo Real Estate of a  nominal 50 billion. However, behind the dramatic headline number, as Weber  pointed out in a September 29 letter to Finance Minister Peer Steinbrck that  has been made public, not only did the private German banks have to come up with  60% of that figure, the state with 40%. But also, given the careful manner in  which the Government in cooperation with the Bundesbank and BaFin, structured  the rescue credit agreement, the maximum possible loss, in a worst case  scenario, to the state would be limited to 5.7 billion, not 30 billion as many  believed. It's still real money but not the blank check for $700 billion that a  US Congress under duress and a few days of falling stock market prices agreed to  give Paulson.  The swift action by Finance Minis...
