 HHmmm! Barclays. Now dont get me started.  Moved back to uk about 6 weeks ago and have had a few hassles, many of which have been talked about many times; problems with getting a credit score, and proof of address and so on. As an aside, without a credit score I cant even get a contract for a mobile phone and so on, so am on pay as you go even for internet. Anyway, barclays...well, as many have advised, I kept a barclays account on the back burner. I had had it for about 12 years. It had a debit card with it and I had made sure I used it from time to time, and everything got sent to my parents address. However, it hadnt been used for about a year, or rather, they hadnt sent me a new card after the last one expired in the autumn of last year. I hadnt clicked this until about spring of this year. Anyway, 6 weeks ago, popped into barclays and asked for a new card and cheque book. That first order was automatically cancelled by the bank as they said the account had been dormant. So, they got re ordered. Then, we asked them to change ot to a joint account, after the bank advised that it would be easier to do this rather than open a new joint account. Well, after having to show our council tax bill and passports etc, the personal banker advised us that we could transfer money from our bank account abroad. so, we did that, only to recieve a letter 2 days later from the barclays fraud office, saying that my account was to be closed down in 7 days time. no explanations. just a snotty letter. so, the branch didnt want to help, and we had to phone the number on the letter. the guy sarcastically told me that it was very convenient that i now suddenly wanted to use the account. Well, it would have been more convenient if you hadnt decided to close it without any explanations! well, the next thing we know, on the day before it was due to close, popped in and asked for the balance. I got a heart attack when they told me i was in the red for many thouands of pounds. They had accepted the money we had transferd into the account, only to reject it the next day.!!!? then, the same amount was sent out of my account again, to some unkown destination. so not only did i not have the money i had sent, but i was now in the red. their reaction was really shitty. i was told no one on the branch could help and was again sent to phone a number. to cut a long story short, no one can say whats going on and i am in the red. this was 5 days ago and still nothing, apart from letters from barclays tellling me i owe them dosh and informing me of their bank charges. as you can imagine i am well cheesed off. I am annoyed not just about the situ that i find myself in, of thier making, but also at their really crappy customer care. The moral of this rather rambling rant, is to not only keep an account open, and to use it, but dont try and add anyone else onto it, especially someone with a foreign ID. Another problem we have found by the way, just to reiterate what others have said, is that no one will give us any sort of credit, not even a debit card. Good old nationwide, where i had also kept an account open, cant give us a credit score. so, never mind that we wnat to transfer loads a money over, as we dont have an income at the mo, no debit card. you can forget a credit card.    welcome home!!  
