The dividend cuts keep coming as boards of directors abandon the practice of paying out virtually all earnings to keep the faith with shareholders. AMP joined the wave of dividend cutting by companies that have formed of the core of the equity portfolios of retail investors. It comes a few days after Commonwealth Bank warned that 17 years of rising payouts would come to an end this year. AMP paid out 95 per cent of its earnings in the interim period to June 2008 in the expectation markets would improve. But a cut is in store for the final dividend, despite the company raising $559 million in a fresh capital in November and having excess regulatory capital of more than $720 million. Retail shareholders paid $5.16 a share for the shares issued in November compared with today's trading price of about $5. The market had a consensus final dividend figure of 19 cents a share for AMP. But AMP said today the final dividend would be 16 cents a share taking the full year dividend to 38 cents a share. AMP is returning to its previous target of paying out 85 per cent of its earnings. Chief executive Craig Dunn said in setting the dividend the company took into account expected future underlying profits, current cash earnings, and the need to preserve capital and maintain AMP's balance sheet strength. If the 16 cents a share is the new sustainable level of dividends then today's announcement indicates underlying earnings are deteriorating and that 2010 earnings per share will come in at about 38 cents a share. It also suggests that AMP is taking a more pessimistic view of the timing of the recovery in equity markets. AMP said its 2008 full year profit would be $580 million, down from $985 million in 2007. The 2007 figure was inflated by the $170 million sale of Cobalt/Gordian. AMP said underlying earnings would come in at $800 million in 2008. Dunn said today AMP would be releasing its latest equity market sensitivity analysis with its results next week. He refused to be drawn on questions about whether AMP had entered into reinsurance arrangements to protect itself against falling equity markets. AXA Asia Pacific has used reinsurance to protect its capital in Hong Kong. After four years of rising dividends on the back of a dramatic recovery in earnings, shareholders in AMP are paying the price for their leverage to equity markets. It is likely to be a similar story for shareholders in other wealth management companies such as Perpetual. However, recently several analysts have highlighted that the leverage works both ways and there will be enormous upside delivered to shareholders of wealth management companies when the equity markets turn.
