Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd expects 2008-09 cash earnings to be around 2008 levels, despite the deterioration in global and domestic economic environments.  Earnings for the year to September 30, 2008 totalled $3.3 billion, down 21% on the year before, with cash EPS of $1.55.  ANZ says year-to-date underlying business performance remains resilient, with strong revenue trends in a number of businesses. Cash earnings for the first four months, excluding provisions and credit intermediation trades, were up 18%.  ANZ says volatility in global credit markets continues to impact the credit intermediation trades, with a further mark-to-market charge of $370 million after tax for the year to date. Provisions for the full year are expected to be higher than last year, but more evenly spread across the year, in line with current market consensus of between $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion.  CEO Mike Smith said Given the challenges ANZ faced from the global economic downturn and volatility in financial markets, our strategy and the actions taken last year to prepare ourselves for the new economic reality are paying off. While Australia is better positioned than most other countries and has been remarkably resilient so far, it has not given us immunity  nor will it this year. We are also facing difficult conditions in New Zealand. Mr Smith said In this environment, our underlying business is travelling well. We are continuing to deal with legacy issues, managing the impact of the financial crisis and implementing our super regional strategy. The positive results, particularly from Asia Pacific and progress in turning around Institutional, demonstrate we are addressing current critical issues while not neglecting our longer term positioning. He said the group had strengthened its balance sheet through increased provisioning, significantly increased liquid assets, improved its tier one capital position, and recognising the need to move to a more appropriate dividend payout ratio for current conditions.  In 2009, capital initiatives will include a reduction of the dividend, to be determined when actual results are known but expected to be around 25%, improving organic capital generation by $500 million per annum.  Year-to-date, ANZ has issued $15.8 billion of term debt, equivalent to 70% of the 2009 term funding requirement, with an average term of 3.9 years. The prime liquidity portfolio is around $55 billion, sufficient to cover over a year of offshore wholesale debt maturities. Mr Smith said We remain confident in our position and the future at a time when many banks around the world are facing very significant difficulty. The action being taken in Australia to address the deteriorating economic outlook through monetary and fiscal stimulus is considerable and welcome. ANZ will report its interim results for the period ended March 31, 2009 in Melbourne on April 29.  STOCK DASHBOARD: February 26, 2009  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group  Closing Price February 25, 2009: $12.50  Price change from previous trading day: -1.0%  Relative Strength (6 months percentile rank): 74.3  Market capitalisation: $27 billion  Dividend Yield: 10.9%  Price/Earnings: 7.7 times  Turnover volume: 6,045,351.0  Volume Index (1 is average): 0.5  Turnover value: $79 million  Turnover period: 9 months  Value of $1,000 invested 1 year ago: $584
