Nancy M. Bufalino  CNA Analyst  Thomas F. Motamed  Chairman of the Board &amp; Chief Executive Officer Property and Casualty Operations  D. Craig Mense  Chief Financial Officer &amp; Executive Vice President  Larry A. Haefner  Executive Vice President &amp; Chief Actuary of Insurance Subsidiaries  Analysts  Jay Cohen  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  Daniel Johnson  Citadel Investment Group  [Ray Wicklander]  Tradewinds Global Investors  Bob Glasspiegel  Langen McAlenney  Presentation  Operator  Welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation fourth quarter and full year 2008 earnings conference call. Todays call is being recorded. At this time Id like to turn the conference over to Nancy Bufalino.  Nancy M. Bufalino  Welcome to CNAs fourth quarter and full year financial results call. Hopefully everyone has had an opportunity to review the press release and financial supplement which were released earlier this morning and can be found on the CNA website. This morning were happy to have with us our new Chairman and CEO, Tom Motamed and Craig Mense our CFO. Tom and Craig will provide some prepared remarks before opening it up for questions from the investment community.  Before we get started Id like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures. Please see the section of the earnings release headed financial measures and forward-looking statements for further detail. In addition, the forward-looking statements speak only as of today, February 9, 2009.  CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call. This call is being recorded and webcast. During the next week the call may be accessed again on CNAs website at www.CNA.com. With that, Ill turn the call over to CNAs Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.  Thomas F. Motamed  Many of you know me from my previous life and I look forward to renewing our acquaintance in my new position at CNA. My first analyst call at CNA coincides with prolonged and severe disruptions in the debt and equity markets. These conditions resulted in significant losses in our investment portfolio as well as declines in our net investment income during 2008.  The impact is clear to see in our fourth quarter and full year results. As you read in our press release, CNA had a $21 million operating loss for the fourth quarter or $0.15 per share and a net loss of $336 million or $1.31 per share. Both were driven by investment results whether it was the $309 million of limited partnership losses that adversely affected operating income or the $419 million of investment impairments that contributed to a $314 million realized loss.  For the year, net operating income was $533 million or $1.91 per share. Catastrophe losses reduced earnings by $0.89 per share. The net loss of $299 million reflects the investment and catastrophe losses.  I am pleased to say that operating performance of our core property casualty business was a much better story and that will be my focus this morning before turning it over to Craig who will discuss our reserve position, investments, capital management and other topics. Property and casualty operations which consists of specialty and standard lines delivered a fourth quarter combined ratio of 89.1%, the best quarterly result in seven years.  Favorable development reduced the quarters combined ratio by 11.8 points, catastrophe losses added .6 points, before development and tax the combined ratio was 103%. For the full year, the combined ratio was 98% which included 4.4 points of favorable development and 5.7 points of catastrophe losses. Before development and tax, the combined ratio was 96.7%.  In the quarter, the favorable development is primarily attributed to first party coverages and standard lines, mainly property and marine and the CNA Global businesses and specialty which include our international operations and First Insurance Company of Hawaii. This quarters favorable development continues the recent trend that now shows eight straight quarters of favorable development for property casualty operations.  We believe this reflects our prudent reserving philosophy and we are confident in the adequacy and accuracy of our reserves. For the full year, favorable development in standard lines was driven by the first party coverages. In specialty lines the drivers were CNA Global and HealthPro for accident years 2003 through 2006. As for premium volume, net written premiums decreased about 4% in the fourth quarter and the year. We continue to focus on underwriting discipline in all our business segments.  Now, let us take a closer look at specialty lines and standard lines starting with specialty. Specialty lines which represent 60% of total premiums delivered a fourth quarter combined ratio of 87.5 in 2008 compared with 91.1 in 2007. Favorable development in the quarter had a 14 point impact in 2008 versus 2.6 points in 2007. Before development and catastrophe losses, the fourth quarter combined ratio was 101% in 2008 as compared to 93.4% in 2007.  During the quarter the current accident year was unfavorably impacted by seven points to reflect our exposure to claims arising from the credit crisis. For the year, the combined ratio was 90.1 which included favorable prior year development of 5.4 points. Before development and catastrophe, the 2008 combined ratio was 95.  Specialty lines net written premiums declined 4% for the quarter, 2% for the year. The fourth quarter decline was primarily driven by the impact of currency fluctuations on our Canadian and European businesses. The ratio of new to loss business was 1.2 to 1. We retained 84.6% of renewal business consistent with the past few quarters and three points better than the fourth quarter of 07. Renewal rate decreases averaged 2.5%, a slight improvement over the past few quarters and two points better than the fourth quarter of 07.  I would now like to give you some color on the specialty marketplace. Competition remains strong and pervasive in the fourth quarter as underwriters press for new business while showing a willingness to reduce rates in order to retain renewals. Although pricing seems to be a part of every equation, we saw little evidence of pressure to modify terms and conditions.  Regarding the market dislocations that occurred in 2008, we are seeing significant price reductions by incumbents to retain accounts. Surprisingly enough, we do not see brokers and agents replacing these positions but rather taking the price reduction and in some cases reducing the line participation. On a more positive note, we continue to see price strengthening in the financial institution segment and a stabilization of commercial D&amp;O pricing.  As for standard lines, the fourth quarter combined ratio was 90.9 in 2008 compared with 105.4 in 2007. Favorable development in the quarter had a 9.2 point impact in 2008 versus 2.9 points in 2007. Before development and catastrophe losses the fourth quarter combined ratio was 99.4 in 2008 as compared to 105.8 in 2007. For the year, the combined ratio was 107 which included favorable prior year development of 3.2 points. Before development and catastrophe the 2008 combined ratio was 98.8.  Net written premiums decreased 4% in the fourth quarter, 7% for the year. The ratio of new to loss business was 1.2 to 1. We retained 85.1% of the business available to renew, there points better than in the third quarter and fourth points better than the second quarter. Rate decreases on renewals averaged 3.2%. This too represents an improvement over the previous two quarters, in fact the fourth quarter rate decline was the lowest in eight quarters.  With respect to the standard lines marketplace, we see the same trends as on the specialty side. While rate decreases moderated somewhat in the fourth quarter, it is still a very competitive market. Carriers are fighting to hold their renewals and new business pricing on the best accounts is still very aggressive.  This has been complicated by new entrance in the ocean cargo, monoline umbrella property and energy segments. Although we are quite pleased with the deceleration of rate declines and hopefully a bottoming out of rates, were closely watching our exposure factors such as payrolls, sales and insured valuations. Since price is a composite of rate and exposure, the current condition of our economy is and will continue to impact overall price and ultimately premium growth.  Turning briefly to expenses, CNA continues to run a competitive and stable expense levels. The property casualty operations fourth quarter expense ratio was 30%. For the year, we ran at 29.6%, our third consecutive year below 30. With that, I will turn it over to Craig.  D. Craig Mense  As Tom outlined, CNAs property casualty store insurance operations turned in another strong performance during the fourth quarter as measured by their 89.1% combined ratio. As importantly, the operating fundamentals for those businesses is improving, especially with regard to rate and retention. We have a well established brand and an excellent competitive position.  In addition to solid business operating performance, the company has a solid reserve position. A track record of eight straight quarters of positive loss development in P&amp;C operations, much diminished reinsurance recoverable credit risk and substantial enterprise liquidity. We believe we have the flexibility and financial resources to successfully manage this company through the market stresses that we are all currently experiencing.  Let me now turn to investment results and the investment portfolio. Fourth quarter pre-tax investment income was $170 million compared with $574 million in the prior year period. These results include $45 million of losses from our trading portfolio in the current period compared with $31 million of trading losses in the previous period. Excluding the impact o...
