9:00 AM ET Executives  David Sternblitz - Vice President and Treasurer  Neal L. Goldberg - President and Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia T. Gordon - Interim Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and Controller  Analysts  Lorraine Maikis - Banc of America-Merrill Lynch  Jeffery Stein - Soleil Securities  William Armstrong - C.L. King &amp; Associates Janet Kloppenburg - JJK Research  Chia Kuo - Telsey Advisory Group  Brian Tunick - JPMorgan  Presentation  Operator  Good morning. My name is Julianne, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Zale Corporation Second Quarter Fiscal 2009 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Thank you.  I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. David Sternblitz, Vice President and Treasurer. Please go ahead. David Sternblitz Thank you, Julianne. Good morning and thank you for joining us for our second quarter 2009 conference call. I am David Sternblitz, Vice President and Treasurer of Zale.  With me on the call today are Neal Goldberg, Chief Executive Officer; Cindy Gordon, Senior Vice President, Controller and Interim Chief Financial Officer; Theo Killion, President; Gil Hollander, Executive Vice President and Chief Sourcing and Supply Chain Officer; William Acevedo, Executive Vice President and Chief Stores Officer; and Mary Kwan, Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer.  Before we begin, I'd like to review the Safe Harbor. Our commentary and responses to your questions on this conference call will contain forward-looking statements, including statements relating to our future goals, plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and a variety of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the anticipated or expected results expressed in these forward-looking statements.  Information concerning some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements is available in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 31, 2008 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q, for the quarter ended October 31, 2008.  In addition, we will present non-GAAP financial information on this call. For a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please refer to today's earnings release, which can be found on our corporate website, www.zalecorp.com, under Financial Information and then News Releases.  I would now like to turn the call over to Neal.  Neal L. Goldberg  Thank you, David. Today, I'd like to review our second quarter results and provide an update on our key initiatives.  As we stated in our January holiday release, the second quarter was the most difficult in memory due to the overall macro-economic situation. Customer traffic and transactions were down significantly for the period.  Comparable stores sales decreased 18.1% and gross margins declined 530 basis points from the same period last year. We have identified key internal factors that contributed to the disappointing performance. And most importantly, many these factors are correctable. We immediately made adjustments to improve performance going forward. A portion of this deterioration was the direct results of an aggressive promotional stance.  Originally, our strategy emphasized emotion and item specific promotions. As Christmas too closer, it was clear that the deteriorating retail environment was not going to improve and we adjusted our strategy to emphasize store-wide discounts and more urgent calls to action.  Because of these changes, we believe we lost approximately 500 basis points in margin and negatively impacted comp store sales.  Immediately following Christmas, we returned back to a strategy that emphasized emotion with a promotional posture that is item specific. The result has been more normalized 50% plus margins along with comparable store sales improvement to trend. These comp and margin improvements have held from January through the Valentine's Day selling period.  Looking ahead, the strategies we began over the last year are more important than ever: focusing on our value-oriented customer with a price appropriate assortment, operational efficiency in our supply chain end-stores, and most importantly in this climate the financial rigor of aggressively managing our cash and capital expenditures.  While not all of our initiatives have been reflected in our financial results, I sincerely believe we are doing the right things for the business that will benefit us over the long-term.  All three of our objectives are important in the current environment, when maintaining financial rigor and discipline and enhancing operational effectiveness or paramount.  We announced today that the next phase of our cost reduction plan that will rationalize the size and scale of the company. The first phase of the company's cost reduction plan, which began in February, 2008 identified $175 million in inventory and cost reductions. The next phase announced today, the company has identified a $140 million in addition of inventory and cost reductions. We continuing to aggressively look for efficiencies, as well as bring our expense structure inline with our current business.  As part of the cost reductions announced today, we recently eliminated a number of positions primarily here in Dallas. These reductions have been difficult for our entire organization. I'd like to thank both those associates who have left the organization and those who remain. We appreciate the dedication, their support, and hard work of all of our team members.  Financial rigor and discipline also extends to our inventory discussions. Our clearance strategy addressed our cluttered cases and inventories $100 million below last year. Despite the environment and soft holiday sales, we are in solid inventory position. This is our first step. The next step is to reduce inventory by an additional $75 million by making significant improvements in inventory efficiency and productivity.  To do this we are utilizing tools like micro segmentation to ensure each store has appropriate inventory mix based on key demographics and selling history. We believe this represents tremendous opportunity for efficiency, and we expect to further reduce inventory levels and increase returns.  We expect inventory to be approximately $715 million at year end, reduction of $65 million compared to last year on top of the $100 million reduction from July '07. I firmly believe that this business can be run with less overall inventory and fast returns and that will be our focus going forward.  Last week we announced the addition of our Canadian and Puerto Rican assets as collaterals to our asset-backed credit facility. This additional collateral under the credit facility enhances our flexibility. We will utilize our improved cash position to respond to trends in the business and further improvements in operational efficiency.  The same financial rigor will continue to be applied to capital decisions. We expect CapEx to be approximately $30 million, which is a 65% reduction over last year. Operational effectiveness continues to be an important focus, and some of our down payments in that area are starting to bear fruit.  We recently improved our supply chain and sourcing processes to let to stricter standards and a significant reduction in damage products, highlighting our focus on quality. We have taken actions to reduce a number of vendors by two-thirds since the beginning of 2008. We are continuing to seek further vendor efficiencies, creating stronger, more beneficial relationships with those who remain.  To enhance technology in our distribution center, we have created a more efficient replenishment process along real-time adjustments to sales trends, and improvements in in-stock rates which supports our inventory productivity initiative. These changes have led to improved customer satisfaction and increased efficiency throughout the business.  Additionally, our field organization is moving regional directors to live in their respective markets. This will foster more in-depth geographic expertise, efficient training, and communication and improvements in store execution.  Our field organization is critical. We have a tenured group of associates that understand the importance of building a bond with the customer. We are very proud of the team, and we will continue the work. Listening and supporting their needs to increase effectiveness.  As I stated in the opening, we are very disappointed with our results during the holiday period. However, we have used our learnings in holiday, as well as made other adjustments to the business in order to improve performance going forward. We continued to monitor our trends and make adjustments based on the environments.  Our key objectives will not change. We believe we are positioned to benefit from both the shakeout of competitors and our own decision to right size the business. We continued to aggressively look for opportunities to operate more effectively, while maintaining the financial disciplines to drive value for shareholders over the long-term.  I would now like to ask Cindy to review the second quarter performance, and provide further financial details.  Cynthia T. Gordon  Thanks Neal and good morning, everyone. My comments will relate primarily to the financial results of the second quarter, an update on the $75 million cost reduction plan announced last February, and the details of the next phase of our inventory and cost reduction strategies.  First; financial results for the second quarter. Comparable store sales decreased 18.1%. The one outlier to the trend is our Pagoda brand, which exper...
