: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  SUNCORP shares plunged 26 per cent yesterday but the slide was not as great as originally feared as institutional investors topped up on the stock.  The shares dipped as low as $4.60 before recovering ground to finish $1.82 down at $5.31  a price not seen since 1997.  Almost 22 million shares changed hands in the first day of trading since Suncorp shocked the market last Thursday with a profit downgrade and the resignation of chief executive John Mulcahy.  The banking and insurance group late last week completed an institutional placement which raised $855 million and created 190 million new shares which will hit the market on February 19.  From next Monday retail investors have an opportunity to buy more shares at $4.50 each (on a 1-for-5 basis), with the total raising capped at $502 million.  Analysts said the stock was buoyed yesterday by the fact that some institutional investors had been underweight in Suncorp and that generated some buying.  Bill Chatterton, equities director at ABN Amro Morgans in Brisbane, said there was no doubt shareholders were disappointed by Suncorp's performance over the past 12 months.  'Still Suncorp is not by itself in that by any means. But if they capitalise and get their balance sheet in order, they will go forward,' he said.  'There's not a whole lot of difference in today's price and the issue at $4.50 and a lot of Queenslanders have a lot of exposure to Suncorp because it has been a good performer in the past and will hopefully continue to be down the track once they get sorted out.  'I think most people will take up this issue at 1-for-5 at $4.50 which gives them an opportunity to buy in, at what we would hope is, the bottom of the cycle.'  Veteran stockbroker Stuart Smith at Bell Pottter said it was a sad testament that the once-great Suncorp 'will probably get carved up'.  'My clients are mostly still comfortable because they have been in Suncorp for so long and are still in the black but many who bought of recent years will not be happy.'  Mr Smith said Suncorp was ripe for being rescued by a major bank.  ANZ is believed to possibly still be interested in Suncorp's banking arm as long as commercial property problems can be contained.  'But they've all had a look and all walked away. Why is that? Didn't Suncorp show them the books or did the property exposure scare them all away? Maybe they don't want to show their book to get someone else to value it,' Mr Smith said.  'My firm view is that if we can get a bit of a hit-up in the general market then we sell Suncorp. In the meantime, I am keeping my fingers crossed that someone makes a bid for them.'  The triple-whammy now for Suncorp is that claims will rise from the recent fire and flooding disasters plus they are looking for a new chief executive.  Said one broker: '(Mulcahy) has had to go for a long time. The institutions said they would participate in the capital raising but Mulcahy had to go, he's a glorified builder.'  Last week the outgoing chief executive told analysts that the bank's 90-day overdue bad debts had blown out to $450 million, from $250 million last June, but that the loans were mostly secured.  Mr Mulcahy also stressed last week that the banking division was not up for sale.  Credit agency Fitch Ratings yesterday placed Suncorp's A+ long-term issuer default rating on negative outlook, following Suncorp's announcement that there had been a significant increase in bad debts, which would affect its first-half profits.  Fitch said with signs that the Queensland and Australian economies were facing significant challenges, risks to asset quality were clearly on the downside.  
