WESTPAC/ (UPDATE 3):UPDATE 3- * Cash profit falls 2 pct, in line with mkt expectations  * Bad-debt charges jump more than five-fold to A$800 million  * Shares fall 2.9 percent, in line with sector sub-index (Adds analyst, CEO comments, details)  SYDNEY, Feb 18 (Reuters) - Westpac, Australia's No.2 lender by assets, held quarterly profit steady as higher revenue and fee income offset a five-fold jump in bad debts.  The market had predicted solid earnings at Westpac, which bought fifth-ranked St George last year in the country's biggest banking deal, but Wednesday's trading update failed to dispel concerns that Australian banks may eventually be sucked into the global financial crisis.  October-December cash profit fell 2 percent to A$1.2 billion ($766 million) as higher revenues and margins offset the blow-out in bad-debt charges, which jumped to A$800 million -- not far below the A$931 million for the whole of the previous year.  'When it comes down to it, 2 percent down ... that's not a bad outcome, to be honest,' said Jarrod Martin, analyst at ABN AMRO. 'Aussie banks don't have large overseas exposures ... (but) that said, the economy is deteriorating, so they will have further write-offs going forward.'  Cash earnings, widely used by analysts as an indicator of core profit, exclude one-off items and non-cash accounting items and form the basis for dividends.  The bank did not give a revenue figure in its quarterly trading update. It blamed most of the bad debt charges on a few stressed corporate borrowers, including a A$300 million exposure to struggling Babcock &amp; Brown, but said its biggest exposure, the home mortgage market, was holding up well.  'Perhaps the uncertainty for us is that 2009 will be a challenging year ..,' CEO Gail Kelly told reporters, adding: 'Overall, we are in a good shape.'  Westpac shares fell 2.9 percent, in line with the financial sector sub-index that was dragged lower by a broader sell-off in global banking stocks.  In the past month, Westpac shares rank among the top-five performing banks in the FTSE Global Banks index.  WINNING MARKET SHARE  Australian banks have weathered the global credit crunch better than U.S. and European peers, largely because they are not heavily exposed to sub-prime debt and because job losses have yet to have a real impact on local households.  'They are winning market share as a number of foreign banks and small banks are struggling to stay in the market,' said Rohan Walsh, investment manager at Karara Capital.  'The underlying business is doing very strongly, but the debate at the moment is how bad will bad debts get? That's the unknown. Ex-bad debts, they are in a very good position.'  Westpac did not give an outlook or qualify its dividend policy.  Analysts expect Australia's top banks to cut dividends this year for the first time since the early 1990s, but few predict outright losses.  'We were expecting it (Westpac's Q1) to be quite robust,' said Paul Xiradis, chief executive at fund manager Ausbil Dexia.  'There are some bad debt issues that are affecting all the banks but what we are seeing is that revenue margins are improving for the likes of Westpac and CBA in particular.'  Earlier this month, top lender National Australia Bank  (nyse: NAB -  news  -  people ) (NAB), third-ranked Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group  (nyse: ANZ -  news  -  people ) (ANZ) all flagged rising bad debts as they face slowing credit growth, rising impairments and limited access to wholesale funding.  Westpac said total lending rose 2.4 percent from the fourth quarter, and customer deposits were up 9.6 (Editing by Mark Bendeich &amp; Ian Geoghegan)  Copyright 2009 Reuters, Click for Restriction
