LONDON, Feb 25 (Reuters) - The runaway success of Swiss drugmaker Roche  (other-otc: RHHBY.PK -  news  -  people )'s record U.S. and European bond issues will cut the size of the syndicated loan required to finance its hostile bid for Genentech  (nyse: DNA -  news  -  people ), banking sources said on Wednesday.  Roche's $14 billion euro and sterling bond issues bring the total amount raised by the Basel-based group in the bond market to $30 billion, after last week's record $16 billion U.S. issue.  'Roche has $30 billion. There will still be a loan but it will be a fraction of what Roche was thinking about a few months ago,' a senior banker close to the loan talks said.  Roche's bond market success has taken the European bank market by surprise, and disappointed the company's bankers who were hoping for a larger loan, similar to Pfizer  (nyse: PFE -  news  -  people )'s $22.5 billion loan for its acquisition of U.S. rival Wyeth, which is priced at 300 basis points (bps).  'No-one knew that they (Roche) could do this bond capacity. It's more bad new than good news; we thought we were going to get a juicy (loan) deal,' a second senior banker said.  The smaller size of Roche's prospective loan means that the company could now be looking at a lower interest margin than Pfizer's 300 bps rate.  But Nick Turner, an industry analyst at Mirabaud Securities, said some investors were anxious about the relatively high coupons that Roche is paying on its bonds -- one reason for a 3 percent slip in Roche stock on Wednesday.  Bankers said that Roche's bond market success could also change the dynamics of the bid situation, as Genentech will be aware that Roche has money to spend and is now likely to push even harder for a higher offer.  'Genentech knows that they've (Roche) got loads of money and could screw them on price. Roche has got to spend this money now that they have issued the bonds,' the second senior banker said.  Roche is expected to fund the acquisition with a mix of bonds, loans, cash on balance sheet and commercial paper, but bankers said on Wednesday that the company could also tap a Medium Term Note programme.  Roche's loan is expected to be provided by the same 11 banks that have led the company's U.S. and European bond issues, sources said.  The banks -- Bank of America  (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people )Merrill Lynch  (nyse: MER -  news  -  people ), Barclays  (nyse: BCS -  news  -  people ), BNP Paribas  (other-otc: BNPQY.PK -  news  -  people ), Citigroup  (nyse: C -  news  -  people ), Credit Suisse  (nyse: CS -  news  -  people ), Deutsche Bank  (nyse: DB -  news  -  people ), JP Morgan, Mitsui UFJ, UBS  (nyse: UBS -  news  -  people ) and UniCredit HVB -- signed a letter of support sources said that links the payment of the bond fees to the provision of the loan.  (Additional reporting by Ben Hirschler; editing by Simon Jessop) Keywords: ROCHE LOAN/  (tessa.walsh@reuters.com; +44 20 7542 4048; Reuters Messaging: tessa.walsh.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
