SYDNEY: The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group said Thursday that it will cut its full-year dividend by about a quarter and post flat profit growth because of rising bad debt charges.  ANZ, which paid a dividend of 1.36 Australian dollars, or 88 U.S. cents, per share last year, is the first of Australia's top four banks to announce a dividend cut since the early 1990s.  While dividends are a key draw for investors in banks, the payout cuts have been widely anticipated. ANZ shares were up 2.8 percent on Thursday, outperforming a 0.7 gain on the benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 index. Angus Gluskie, managing director at White Funds Management, said if the cut had been more than 25 percent, investors would consider it too big. 'This level is prudent,' he said. An analyst at an international research house, who did not want to be named because of company policy, said that by cutting dividends, ANZ would remove the need for a capital increase. 'There's now a lot less uncertainty in ANZ's share price,' he said. ANZ said earlier this month that it had no plans to raise capital. In its trading update on Thursday, the bank said its Tier-1 capital ratio, a measure of financial health, stood at 8.4 percent at the end of January.  The bank said in a statement Thursday that earnings in the four months ending in January fell 11 percent to about 1.2 billion dollars from a year earlier. The bank took a charge of 370 million dollars for credit market losses in the period and set aside as much as 2.5 billion dollars for bad loans in its fiscal full year. 'While Australia is better positioned than most other countries and has been remarkably resilient so far, it has not given us immunity, nor will it this year,' Mike Smith, ANZ chief executive, said in a statement.  Australian banks have weathered the global credit crunch better than U.S. and European peers, largely because they are not heavily exposed to subprime debt and because job losses have yet to have a real impact on local households.  But the slowing global economy and difficulties faced by large corporate borrowers are raising bad debts and curbing lending growth, putting pressure on profits.  Fitch Ratings expects the Australian economy to contract by 0.8 percent this year as consumer spending slows for the first time in 47 years and bank lending contracts.  The top three lenders in Australia - National Australia Bank, Westpac Banking Corp. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia - and ANZ have warned about rising bad debts.  ANZ said it faced difficult conditions in New Zealand, but its Asia-Pacific profit after tax more than doubled.  It forecast cash profit for the business year to the end of September at around 2007-2008 levels, broadly in line with market consensus, and provisions were seen rising about 28 percent to around 2.5 billion dollars, also in line with consensus.  ANZ made a cash profit of 3.03 billion dollars last year. Cash profit, effectively core profit stripping out one-off and non-cash accounting items, forms the basis for dividends.  First-half growth would be much weaker than for the full year, ANZ said, without giving numbers.
