  ANZ Bank says its provisions for the fiscal 2009 year are expected to be higher than last year and in line with market expectations.  The bank said volatility in global credit market continues to impact, and that it has taken a further mark to market charge of $370 million in the year to date.  It also flagged an appropriate cut to its fiscal 2009 dividend of about 25 per cent.  But its underlying business performance remains resilient, with strong revenue trends in a number of its operations, ANZ said in a market update on Thursday.  Chief executive Mike Smith said actions the bank took last year to prepare for the challenges of the global economic downturn and financial market volatility were paying off.  While Australia is better positioned than most other countries and has been remarkably resilient so far, it has not given us immunity - nor will it this year, he added.  We are also facing difficult conditions in New Zealand.  In this environment, our underlying business is travelling well.  Mr Smith said ANZ was continuing to deal with legacy issues, managing the impact of the financial crisis and implementing its strategy to become a super regional bank.  The positive results, particularly from Asia Pacific and progress in turning around institutional, demonstrate we are addressing current critical issues while not neglecting our longer term positioning, he said.  Provisions for the full year are expected to be higher than 2008, but more evenly spread across the year.  Its provisions are expected to be in line with current market consensus of between $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion.  The bank also said cash earnings for the first four months of fiscal 2009 - excluding provisions and credit intermediation trades - were up 18 per cent on the same period in fiscal 2008.  In the year to date, its Asia Pacific net profit was up about 125 per cent while the institutional arm was performing well, particularly in global markets.  ANZ said its Australian income and margin trends were positive, with profit before provisions growth around 14 per cent.  Its full year group cash earnings are expected to be around 2008 levels, despite the challenges posed by the deterioration in both the global and domestic economic environments.  ANZ continues to maintain a strong balance sheet including liquidity positioning, deposit growth and term funding, the bank said.  ANZs proforma tier one capital ratio at the end of January was 8.4 per cent.  However, the bank said it would adopt a more appropriate dividend policy for the current conditions with the dividend for 2009 expected to be reduced by around 25 per cent, and to be fully franked.
