  Related Links  Subscribe to Archivestuff  Have your say  Mainfreight says business slowed in the December quarter, traditionally its busiest, as it posted a net profit rise of just $100,000 for the nine months to December.  The freight firm said today net profit after tax and before non recurring items for the nine months rose to $29.5 million, 0.4 percent higher than the same period of the previous year.  Sales revenue year-to-date is up 9.7 percent to $230.9 million, Mainfreight said. However, in the December quarter revenue rose just 1.2 percent in what historically is the companys strongest trading period.  Whilst current trading remains below expectations, we are focused and well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that will arise in the current economic environment across the varied geographical markets that we have expanded into, Mainfreight managing director Don Braid said.  Mainfreight continued to maintain a cautious and fiscally prudent approach to costs and capital expenditure, had a strong balance sheet and sufficient levels of debt funding available should this be required for further growth, Braid added.  A second bank loan facility had been established with ASBs parent the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, in addition to one with Mainfreights long-term banking partner, Westpac. This provides increased flexibility and reduces our exposure to a single facility, said Braid.  Mainfreight operates in New Zealand, Australia, Asia and the United States and provides freight services to Europe and South America.  Braid said a hiring freeze implemented in October had seen Mainfreights staff numbers fall by more than 5 percent through natural attrition with labour costs falling accordingly.  Group sales revenue for the nine months rose 54 percent to $992.8 million from $645.4 million.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation rose 12.5 percent to $59.3 million.  Domestically Braid said Mainfreight was still disappointed that Government-owned KiwiRail had failed to eliminate the freight subsidies afforded to Australias Toll Holdings, the rail networks previous owner.  It is unacceptable to subsidise a foreign company, particularly one which in our view has done no favours for New Zealand, said Braid.  Next Story: BNZ posts $260m first quarter profit  
