New Zealand's former deputy prime minster Jim Anderton still gets letters from people who think he's their bank manager.  'They write to me to complain that 'my' bank has shut their account or something like that,' he says.  It's years since Anderton was involved with the state-owned Kiwibank.  He was never the bank manager but he is credited with its establishment. His Alliance party agreed to a coalition with Labour in December 1999 to form a minority government, on condition it would look at setting up Kiwibank.  In 2002, Kiwibank, a subsidiary of New Zealand Post, opened its first branch in a post office in the rural city of Palmerston North. It took on New Zealand's big five banks, all of which are Australian-owned. Kiwibank has reached targets ahead of time and, seven years after it opened, it claims to be beating the big banks at their own game.  Although Kiwibank is still a tiny player, with about 3 per cent market share of deposits, 5.5 per cent of the mortgage market and a far higher proportion of low-worth customers, it continues to sign up about 350 new accounts a day. It has 650,000 customers in a country of just 4.3 million people. Last year it delivered a $36 million profit.  Kiwibank's real manager, chief executive Sam Knowles, believes another significant achievement has been making the big banks improve their customer service and extend their operating hours. Kiwibank has significantly more branches, better service, is open at the weekends, has lower fees and home loans that are usually 0.5 per cent lower than those of the big banks.  Since Kiwibank started, the big banks have 'reduced their margins on lending, moved faster on interest changes that benefit customers and made their fee structures more customer-friendly,' Knowles says.  In fact, in some areas, Australian banks are nicer to their customers in New Zealand than they are in Australia. Take ANZ, for example. In New Zealand, it's open 9am to 4.30pm every weekday. In Australia, most weekdays it opens half an hour later and shuts half an hour earlier.  In the past month, New Zealand banks' margins have also been smaller, with their standard variable interest rates 2.5 percentage points above the Reserve Bank's cash rate. In Australia, the big banks' rates have been 2.75 percentage points above the cash rate.  But this changed recently. The cash rate there dropped by an unexpectedly large 1.5 percentage point at the end of January, yet banks dropped rates by only about 0.5 percentage points. It's not known whether the banks will drop their rates lower still.  Elissa Freeman, at consumer group Choice, says a Kiwibank-type alternative is 'exactly what the Australian banking market needs at the moment'.  'There's certainly a lot less choice than 18 months ago,' she says.  Non-bank home loans in Australia have hit a record low, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The big banks, with more than 90 per cent of the market, are under less pressure to pass on rate cuts. However Freeman believes the global financial crisis has put an end to any hopes Australia might have had of seeing a challenger take on the big banks.  Bankwest was the closest. Branches resembled comfortable retail stores and they 'had started to deliver what customers wanted - simplicity, transparency and low fees'.  Before being bought by the Commonwealth Bank, 'Bankwest was going to engage in a massive expansion up the eastern seaboard that would have brought a whole lot of innovation.'  Many share Freeman's views on the likelihood of a competitor start-up.  University of Western Sydney associate professor Steve Keen says Australia does need an institution that will lend for 'sensible' projects, such as people who want to live in their own home or those buying a business that needs working capital. However, he says added competition is no reason to start a new bank: 'A lot of the trouble that has occurred is because of competition.'  Canstar Cannex senior financial analyst Harry Senlitonga says it would be hard to set up a competitor without the same sort of cheap distribution network Kiwibank had in NZ Post. He says the closest attempt, supermarket banking, does not appear to have worked. 'A branch is a big investment,' he says.  Anderton says that in New Zealand's case, conditions were right for a challenger. The big banks were closing branches, leaving many rural and even city areas without facilities. There was no New Zealand-wide, New Zealand-owned retail banking company (one bank is local but has only 15 branches and does most banking by phone) and fees and interest rates were high.  New Zealand Post was floating the idea of its own bank as a way of better using its network of branches in the face of revenue loss from declining demand for its postal services. 'So Kiwibank was opened on the basis that a New Zealand-owned bank would have, as its main objective: 'Serve the New Zealand communities to make a profit but not at any expense.' '  Kiwibank has said in the past it worked to a 13 per cent to 15 per cent return after tax, instead of close to the big banks' 30 per cent. Anderton believes, however, the Australian environment is different. He says he saw a memo from one of the big banks telling executives to ensure no more banks closed in Australia.  'The banks in Australia were very worried and didn't want a similar set of circumstances that would allow something similar to be set up,' he says.  Kiwibank's Knowles is more blunt about the prospects of a start-up in the current economic climate. 'By whom?'    Email to a friend  
