Investment bank ABN Amro and New Zealands biggest retail investment advisory network ABN Amro Craigs could soon be ringfenced into a bad bank, put up for sale and forced to cut jobs.  Royal Bank of Scotland, which owns half of ABN Amro Craigs and all of ABN Amro in New Zealand, is expected to announce a radical restructure tonight (NZ time) that could result in the loss of 20,000 jobs worldwide.  New RBS chief executive Stephen Hester is mirroring a formula he employed at his previous post at Abbey National by creating a separate bad bank consisting of unwanted businesses and toxic assets, which is ringfenced from the rest of the RBS balance sheet.  He will then look to offload all of the bad banks businesses, which are reported to include the Australasian and Asian operations of ABN Amro; RBSs aircraft leasing unit; and portfolios of mortgage and lending assets by US business Charter One.  The restructure is expected to take five years and involve RBS withdrawing from about half the 60 countries in which it operates.  ABN Amro Craigs has more than 60,000 retail investor clients, and 300 staff in 17 locations around New Zealand. Its head office is in Tauranga and senior employees own half the company.  ABN Amro New Zealand chief executive Simon Allen did not respond to NBRs request for comment yesterday.  ABN Amros New Zealand assets are a subsidiary of ABN Amro Australia, so both sides of the Tasman will probably share the same fate.  RBS was part of a consortium that bought ABN Amro in 2007 for 49 billion after outbidding Barclays.  It tried to offload the Australian ABN Amro business last year but failed, despite interest from National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank.  Fellow four pillar bank ANZ is rumoured to be the frontrunner to pick up ABN Amros Asian assets.  The opportunity to buy this large presence in Asia from a distressed seller fits perfectly with ANZ chief executive Mike Smiths plan to transform the business into a super-regional bank.  On Thursday (London time) RBS will also announce the UK's biggest corporate loss of up to 28 billion.  This includes goodwill writedowns of 20 billion relating mainly to the ABN Amro purchase.  The British government had to bail out RBS last year, and now owns 70% of the firm.  The new bad bank structure is designed to protect the governments investment by isolating the stronger parts of RBS from the parts that have proved to be a headache.  The news of more potential job cuts comes after RBS and ABN Amro have already cut thousands of positions worldwide: 19,000 when the sale of ABN Amro went through, according to reports, and another 3000 in November.  
