has hired Morgan Stanley to explore the potential sale of its Asian banking units as it looks to raise cash following its ill-fated purchase of ABN Amro, sources told Reuters.  The part-nationalised bank is likely to first explore options for its retail and commercial units, one source said on Friday, but it would be willing to consider an offer for the investment banking operations, if the price was right.  The sources have direct knowledge of the matter but did not want to be named because they are not authorised to speak on the record about the matter.  Both RBS -- which is on course to reveal a loss of up to 28 billion pounds next week for 2008, the largest in British corporate history -- and Morgan Stanley declined to comment on the hiring. It was unclear if Morgan Stanley would also help sell other RBS assets beyond Asia.  RBS acquired its Asian retail and commercial banking operations as a result of the ABN deal, which also enhanced significantly its investment banking presence in the region.  The move comes after the UK government took a 70 percent stake in the struggling bank. Selling assets in Asia would help it generate much-needed cash.  RBS hoped that its ABN Amro acquisition in 2007 -- blamed in part for RBS's financial woes -- would help it expand across Asia through ABN's network in the region. It now appears that a good portion of that network could be sold off.  STRATEGIC REVIEW  Separately, RBS said on Friday it will report early findings of its strategic review next week.  UK newspaper The Independent said on Friday that RBS wanted to sell the Charter One brand operating in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio which it bought in 2004 for $10.5 billion (7.3 billion pounds), but hoped to keep its retail bank in tact on the East Coast.  'We will sell any business if we think there is a better owner who places a higher valuation on it than we do,' a source close to RBS told Reuters.  A strategic review was underway as previously announced, RBS said, and it would announce first findings when reporting full-year results on February 26.  'We would not comment on any speculation that might pre-empt the strategic review,' a spokeswoman said.  RBS had sounded out Asia-focused bank Standard Chartered and Australia's ANZ about buying the Asian operations, including assets in India, the Independent reported, without citing any sources.  The Independent also said RBS would like to maintain its wholesale banking foothold in key centres such as Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and India.  The 282-year-old bank's acquisition spree over the last 10 years has been widely blamed for making it more vulnerable to the global financial crisis.  (Additional reporting by Paul Hoskins; Editing by Will Waterman and Simon Jessop)  
