* ANZ sees 25 pct cut to dividend  * Full year cash profit seen steady from last year  * Sees up to 28 pct rise in 2009 provisions  SYDNEY, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Australia and New Zealand Banking Group , the country's fourth-largest lender, warned investors on Thursday of a 25 percent cut in dividends this year as profit growth peters out and bad-debt charges jump.  The bank said in a trading update for the four months to January that its underlying business was performing well, but the bank would not be immune to the global economic downturn.  'While Australia is better positioned than most other countries and has been remarkably resilient so far, it has not given us immunity, nor will it this year,' Chief Executive Mike Smith said in a statement.  The bank faced difficult conditions in New Zealand, but its Asia Pacific profit after tax more than doubled, it added.  ANZ's cash earnings for the year to end-September 2009 were expected to be around 2007/08 levels, and provisions were expected to be in line with market consensus of up to A$2.5 billion ($1.62 billion), up about 28 percent on last year.  Last year, it made cash profit after tax of A$3.03 billion.  Cash profit, effectively core profit stripping out one-offs and non-cash accounting items, forms the basis for dividends.  First-half growth would be much weaker than for the full year, ANZ said. But it gave no detailed guidance numbers.  Australian banks have weathered the global credit crunch better than U.S. and European peers, largely because they are not heavily exposed to sub-prime debt and because job losses have yet to have a real impact on local households.  But their profits are taking hits from soaring bad business debts and weaker lending growth as the domestic economy slows and more large corporate borrowers face difficulties.  Global ratings agency Fitch Ratings expects the Australian economy to contract by 0.8 percent this year as consumer spending slows for the first time in 47 years and bank lending contracts.  Earlier this month, top lender National Australia Bank , No. 2 lender Westpac Banking Corp , third-ranked Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and ANZ all flagged rising bad debts.  Earlier this month, ANZ said it had no plans for a capital raising. At end-January, its tier-1 capital ratio stood at 8.4 percent, the bank said on Thursday.  Its shares fell 44.3 percent last year, slightly more than the 41.3 percent fall in the benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 index . ANZ shares are down 16 percent so far this year, while the benchmark index is 9.2 percent.  ANZ will report its first-half result on April 23. (Reporting by Mette Fraende; Editing by Mark Bendeich)  
