A TRADING statement from Standard Bank on Friday was badly received by the market as banking shares globally came under renewed pressure.   Although the statement was little changed from an update last October, shares in the bank fell nearly 8% at their worst, while the JSEs banks index fell 7%. It closed 5,3% down at R63.   The trading statement coincided with a report from investment bank HSBC, which downgraded Standard Bank and FirstRand from neutral to underweight. FirstRand fell 6% to R11,81, Nedbank shed 5,8% to R77,25 and Absa ended 6% lower at R86.  Standard Bank said normalised headline earnings for the year to December were expected to be 5%-10% higher than the previous year. Normalised headline earnings per share would be 0%-5% lower.  This was due to the increased number of shares in issue following the sale of a 20% stake to Industrial and Commercial Bank of China in 2007. Basic earnings per share, which include one-off items, were likely to be 8%-12% lower.   For the six months to June last year, headline earnings were up 15% and headline earnings per share were 7% higher, while basic earnings per share were 2% higher, which illustrates the rapid deterioration in trading conditions in the second half of last year.  Standard Bank said it had issued the statement voluntarily, given the prevailing volatility of financial markets and in order to keep investors informed in these unusual circumstances. Despite the fourth quarter being extremely challenging, it said the results for the full year were expected to be broadly in line with Octobers update. One analyst, who asked not to be named, said the slide in Standard Banks share price was mostly due to general negative sentiment, although the update was slightly disappointing. Even though it was in line with guidance, guidance was quite vague in October. This guidance is a lot more clear, he said. He said a 0%-5% dip in diluted headline earnings per share was a quite a good result in this environment. Another reason for the larger fall in Standard Banks share price was that it was rated higher by the market than its peer group. This was due to the banks larger international presence, particularly in emerging markets. However, as the banking environment worsened, Standard Bank would be affected just as severely as the others. (Investors are) being asked to pay a premium compared to the others. We would think that would have to close, the analyst said. On Thursday, US investors unloaded financial heavyweights Bank of America and Citigroup amid concerns that banks would need even more capital to restore their health. Shares in European  particularly eastern European  banks also continued to fall following a warning from ratings agency Moodys early last week that deteriorating conditions could lead to downgrades.
