The banking sector of India is one of the safest places for investing the money. Banks in India are the most reliable financial institutions. With the advent of hi-tech communication and information technology so many factors have facilitated the growth of the banking sector like the Internet banking of India, ATM Network, electronically transfer of funds and quick dispersal of information between different-different branches. With the entry of more and more foreign banks as well as private sector banks, the tilt and nimble footed structure has became the story of past and such factors have stepped up the growth potentials in Indian banking sector. The structural reforms are bettering the health of Indian banking sector. Although, the share market of India has plunged to more than half of their value in one year the Indian banking sector has managed to post profits in the third quarter of 2008. The State Bank of India (SBI) has declared a quarterly profit rise of 40% over the last quarter. The banks in India are becoming more customer friendly. New innovative plans are implemented these days, keeping in view the interest of the customers and are replacing the old schemes. Flexibility, user-friendliness and gain are the key aspects that are being kept in mind before designing the new plans of action for the Indian banks. Account types such as current account, saving account and fixed deposits are being widely used by the people of India who once were loath to trust the banks for their money. Current account has been made for those customers who carry out huge transactions on a daily basis. Corporate executives, businessmen, large and small organizations are using their current account to carry out their transactions. This kind of account is primarily for the purpose of transactions. The low interest rate of current account has attracted the enterprisers willing to invest their money. The businesses in India are booming and the sole reason behind their speedy success is the affordable interest rates. Popular banks in India like the State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank etc. have already set the stage for the enhanced profit by following the guidelines of customer-friendly banking. The main aim of these banks is to channel their working in a way that can assuage their imminent customers. The Indian banking services are mainly based on the online banking procedure. The growth of online banking has been fuelled by the availability of the Internet. Nowadays, many banks in India are offering some form of online banking activity, whether it is checking bank balance, simple cash transactions or paying bills online. With the help of online banking, the customers can easily check their accounts and previous transaction details without physically visiting the bank and even they can transfer money to another online account without any hassles. Moreover, the banking sector of India is growing continuously without any interruption because, in the period of global crisis. It is still standing tall and regarded as one of the safest places for investing money. Recently, the Indian banking industry has grown by over 25 percent. For more to know on Banks in India like ICICI Bank ,CitiBank just visit http://www.paisawaisa.com/ .  
