DESPITE what you heard around the barbecue on the weekend, Australian business people still like their bank - well, most of them.  Despite some tightening in most financial sectors, global market information group TNS reports that the satisfaction level in January of business customers with their banks was still positive.   The TNS Business Finance Monitor (BFM) data - which started in June 2002 - has continued to   show a long-term improvement in satisfaction.   The biggest winner was St George - its business customer satisfaction is the highest (82.3 per cent) of the five major banks.   Bad news, however, for Westpac which, in the past six months to January, has reported the biggest decrease among the big four banks, down 6.4 per cent to 75 per cent.   BFM data over the past six months to January shows that an average of 76.9 per cent of business banking customers were satisfied with their relationship with their main financial institution.   That's the six-monthly data.   On the broader 12-month comparison, the 12 months to January reported that 79.4 per cent of business banking customers were satisfied with their financial institution.   So there has been a slip in the more recent survey.   But though all the financial institutions are in favour with their business customers, it is only the big four banks that have shown an increase in appeal.   While overall satisfaction levels increased by 3.4 per cent in the past 12 months to January compared with the previous corresponding period, the four major banks increased by 4.5 per cent.   BFM data also showed that the Commonwealth Bank is winning back friends. 'Having lagged in satisfaction for much of the last five years, CBA has now caught up with the rest of the big four,'' the survey said. 'Its satisfaction levels have increased the most over the past 12 months (8.6 per cent) to 75.8 per cent. 'NAB's satisfaction has increased the least among the four major banks over the last 12 months, while it is ANZ's business customers who remain the most satisfied (81.6 per cent) among the four majors. 'Westpac's business banking customer satisfaction has increased (3.4 per cent) over the last 12 months (to 78.3), while St George's business customer satisfaction is higher (at 84.3) than each of the four major banks, with an increase of 2.9 per cent over the last 12 months. 'Bank of Queensland and Bendigo Bank have the highest customer satisfaction levels of any of the banks.'' 
