FOSTER'S boss Ian Johnston managed to convince the market he had a credible plan to revive the company's fortunes, but now he has to deliver.  A good strategy is one that can be executed -- which is the task ahead for the new team at the venerable but sagging Australian company.   After eight months, myriad consultants and external advisers produced a result on the wine review that was easily predictable: this was a great performance.   He was helped by a few factors, including a strong balance sheet with interest cover at 7.9 times and a stunning cash conversion on earnings of 92.5 per cent plus a falling local dollar, which helps in every respect except its $US-denominated debt.   At a time when a debt-laden company such as Asciano has lost 34 per cent of its value in a week, a proven ability to pay bills seems enough to ensure a company's stock will at least hold its ground in a nervous market.   Foster's first-half profit was as weak as you would expect given the economic conditions and that the company hasn't had much in the way of management or a sensible strategy.   The wine operation's return on capital is 7 per cent against a cost of capital of 12 per cent and the only thing that has been promised is that the company will improve this, not end the value destruction.   After $1.3 billion was written off the value of the wine business last year, up to $415 million more will go this year as half the Australian wine brands will be chopped.   US boss Scott Weiss was shown the door, as was his Australian colleague, Jamie O'Dell, last year. An insider is tipped to take the Australian job and another outsider takes the helm of the US operations.   Johnston is promising $100 million a year in cost savings due to the changes that will result in more than 300 extra jobs disappearing.   As expected, the wine company will be split from the beer division, with former Pepsi boss -- and trained surgeon -- Alex Stevens to take the reins at Carlton and United Breweries.   The only elements left of now-Visy boss John Murphy's famed multi-beverage strategy will be in logistics, with beer and wine still being shipped on the same trucks.   In every other respect, wine will have to stand on its own, but to help it through Johnston has boosted the sales force.   Johnston's mantra is accountability, adaptability and aggression, which can now be tested against the benchmarks he outlined yesterday.   Not your textbook beer boss   CHOCO Johnston and David Crawford have known each other for more than 35 years, making their present relationship unusual as chief executive and chair of Foster's.   The former earned the nickname Choco when he was a senior executive at Cadbury-Schweppes.   Crawford quit a couple of years back as head of KPMG to spend more time gardening and to study English at the University of Melbourne before becoming a prolific corporate director cum government and corporate trouble shooter.   Johnston was on the Foster's board before taking on the executive role when Trevor O'Hoy left last year.   Johnston's choice of Alex Stevens as the new beer boss is equally intriguing, given that he resigned from the Perpetual board earlier this month after just seven months in the job.   Stevens is not your textbook beer boss, having trained first as a surgeon, then done time as a quantitative analyst and at investment bank DBSM followed by Ord Minnett in the early 1990s, before joining Pepsi and climbing the ranks to be its local boss.   His stated reason for leaving the Perpetual board was to avoid a conflict of interest but he was lauded by its chair Bob Savage as having a 'unique range of competencies in the area of innovation, strategy and marketing'. Clearly he is also an outsider at Foster's cash cow. This was also by design because both Crawford and Choco want a new team to shake up the slow-moving Foster's. Stevens, in his late 40s, is also a big chance to be the next boss of the company, as Choco originally only planned to settle in the new team before himself leaving.   Then again, this unique team of outsiders might have so much fun they decide to stay a bit longer.   Foster's, after all, is a tough company to run because everyone who has ever had a beer or a glass of wine will have a view on how it should be run better, but as history has shown, few have managed to achieve that.   Jetstar hops to roo's rescue   QANTAS has slashed the estimates for its international revenues from 5 per cent to minus 8 per cent due to lower demand amid the global recession.   Some of the fall will be made up by Jetstar but Qantas boss Alan Joyce yesterday took the knife to some routes, cutting international capacity by 1.1 per cent through, among other means, grounding direct flights to Beijing and Mumbai.   Jetstar will expand in New Zealand, taking over the domestic routes previously flown by Qantas (but in spanking new jets just to show that Qantas cares about the Kiwis).   Fair cop for funny trades   ASX supervisory boss Eric Mayne confided yesterday that about 80 per cent of ASX referrals to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ended up going nowhere because the corporate cop couldn't progress the matter any further.   This, it should be stressed, is not a bad thing because sometimes what looks like a funny trade has an explanation, and of course evidence must be obtained.   ASIC boss Tony D'Aloisio, of course, is keen to get beat cop powers to cut the delay between the ASX and ASIC. For the record, though, in the past six months the ASX referred 45 matters to ASIC, up 18 per cent on the previous corresponding period and including 11 cases of possible insider trading, 11 potential disclosure breaches (including the Commonwealth Bank snafu) and eight market manipulation matters.   ASIC, for its part, is running through the stock lending desks of the big investment banks to ensure the new rules apply.   The new short selling rules require a short seller to have control of a stock before selling short, and likewise the same must happen when borrowing or lending stocks.   ASIC is due to decide in the next week or two whether to lift the ban on short selling financial stocks. Given past backflips and inconsistencies, it is anyone's guess whether D'Aloisio wants to maintain the present arbitrary and distorting limits.   Ironically, the lousy stock market has increased demand for stock lending, with custodians reporting an increase in interest.   The reason for this is that stock loans can cut administration costs and hence returns, and every bit counts right now.   More stock is becoming available for loans as the regulators are trying to increase transparency, which could also result in higher lending fees.   The ASX's own stock was down 8.5 per cent at $25.12 due in part to a cut in dividends based on its 90 per cent payout ratio.   The exchange has high fixed costs, so when volume falls so do profits, as shown by the fact that its percentage of expenses to operating revenue increased to 27 per cent from 24 per cent in the previous period and earnings over revenue fell from 76 per cent to 73 per cent.   When retail traders depart it also becomes harder for the ASX to make money across the board, with the big institutional trades done in lots that are less profitable for the quasi-monopoly.   This somehow was also reflected in the fact that revenue from this booming source of income rose by just 5 per cent while secondary equity raisings jumped 29 per cent.   As for Robert Elstone's future, he went out of his way to say he'd like to stay on, and details of a new contract would be finalised shortly.  duriej@theaustralian.com.au  From here you can use the Social Web links to save Foster's boss has to deliver on recovery plan to a social bookmarking site.  Should dangerous sharks be culled to make it safer for humans to go back in the water?   Vote   Your details   Map  The Australian's in-depth sections cover a range of news topics, including the Victorian bushfires, the  and our Investor Jury.  Matt Chambers RIO says failure to approve Chinalco's rescue package could cost 2150 jobs and 750 planned jobs.  Stuart Kennedy EVERYONE in the Australian IT business agrees this year is going to be a grinder.  Nick Tabakoff TEN Network Holdings expects its first-half profit to fall by 28 per cent.  Andrew Trounson THE Commonwealth government is to speed additional infrastructure spending to higher education.  JAPAN'S Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa has announced he will resign, a day after denying being drunk at a Group of Seven meeting.
