: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  George Lekakis  WESTPAC is the world's most profitable bank and Australia the most lucrative banking market, according to a survey by Boston Consulting Group.  US-based Boston Consulting found Westpac was the only full-service commercial bank to generate a return on equity of more than 20 per cent last year.  But the glowing report comes as Moody's Investors Service said it would review the 'AA' credit ratings of the four major Australian banks because the national economy had deteriorated more than previously forecast.  The ratings agency said it expected a 0.4 per cent contraction in Australia's economy for 2009 and a peak in unemployment of 7.2 per cent in the third quarter of 2010.  'The outlook for the Australian economy continues to weaken,' it said. 'Moody's will consider the potential impact on asset quality and earnings - and how this may affect Australian bank financial strength ratings.'  Similarly, Fitch Ratings sounded a note of caution yesterday. It said Australian banks had performed well throughout the credit crisis and were likely to report solid first-half profits in 2009.  '(But) the economy is deteriorating and impaired assets are on the rise,' Fitch said.  According to the Boston Consulting report, Westpac, with a return on equity of 20.4 per cent in 2008, was only rivalled by Spain's BBVA on an ROE of 19.8 per cent.  Return on equity is one of the leading measures of financial performance and gauges how well a company uses earnings from previous periods to produce more profits.  Australia's four major banks - NAB, CBA, ANZ and Westpac - delivered the biggest combined returns to shareholders along with Spanish banks.  The Australian and Spanish banking sectors generated composite ROEs of 16.5 per cent. The next most profitable banks were in Canada.  While the Australian economy has deteriorated since the end of the 2008 financial year, local banks are being backed by the Rudd Government's funding guarantee announced late last year.  The policy effectively shifts some of the business risks associated with banking to Australian taxpayers.  The Boston Consulting findings are likely to be used to increase pressure on the Government to get the banks to continue to pass on the benefits of official rate cuts to mortgage and business borrowers.  NAB boss Cameron Clyne and Commonwealth chief Ralph Norris have both cast doubt on the industry's ability to fully pass on future RBA rate cuts.  It will also add fuel to arguments put forward by the Finance Sector Union this week that banks have an obligation to abandon planned redundancy programs in light of the special support they are receiving from taxpayers.  'If banks take taxpayer support, they can accept some rules to protect taxpayers,' FSU spokesman Rod Masson said.  'Banks are being uneven, they take taxpayer support with nothing in return.'  Westpac announced earlier this week that it suffered an $800 million increase in bad debts during the December quarter and warned that first-quarter earnings of $1.2 billion were down 2 per cent on the same time last year.  Among bank stocks yesterday, Westpac added 52c to $17, ANZ 20c to $12.60, Commonwealth Bank 69c to $29.85 and NAB 26c to $18.40.  
