Senior National Australia Bank executive Ahmed Fahour will leave the bank to take up a role overseeing the Federal Government's property financing vehicle, widely dubbed Rudd Bank.  Mr Fahour, who has been running NAB's flagship Australian banking business since late 2004, stepped down as a member of the bank's board this morning.  The Federal Government and major banks will pour up to $5 billion into a special-purpose vehicle to ensure companies  retain access to credit if foreign banks pull out of Australia.  The Government will provide half of the funds for what is being referred to in banking circles as the 'Rudd Bank',  with the rest to come from the Big Four banks.  The money will be used to cover any shortfall in syndicated loans resulting from troubled foreign banks pulling out of the Australian market to repatriate capital.  Departure expected  Mr Fahour was widely expected to depart the bank after the executive was passed over as NAB group chief executive in July - a role that eventually went to Cameron Clyne.  In December, BusinessDay foreshadowed the timing of Mr Fahour's departure after Mr Clyne took control of the Australian banking businesses. This effectively left Mr Fahour with an undefined strategic role.  Over the past four years, Mr Fahour has transformed NAB's once-struggling Australian unit - which includes retail banking, business banking and wealth management - into one of the better-performing local banking franchises.  The business, which generates about two-thirds of group earnings, has been able to deliver fast profit growth, helped by keeping a tight rein on costs.  Talent drain  With Mr Fahour's exit and second executive - deputy chief executive Michael Ullmer - also expected to leave the bank, analysts said NAB may be lacking depth in its executive ranks.  Mid last year Mr Fahour was sounded out about becoming a candidate to running air carrier Qantas. Elsewhere he had been touted as a candidate to take charge of Commonwealth Bank's troubled institutional banking arm.  NAB chairman Michael Chaney said 'Ahmed has transformed the NAB's business in the Australian region. He initiated and carried out a programme of change which has been of great benefit to all stakeholders''.  NAB group chief executive Cameron Clyne said that Mr Fahour had left the Australian business in excellent shape and well positioned to meet the challenges inherent in the global economy.  NAB shareswere down 40 cents, or 2.2%, at $18.00 in midday trade, underperforming the general market which was down 1.5%.  
