By Denny Thomas and Mette Fraende  SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian financial group Suncorp-Metway Ltd (SUN.AX  Suncorp last year scrapped the sale of the division, which analysts value at between A$2.1-$2.7 billion ($1.4-$1.8 billion), after indicative offers from potential buyers failed to enthuse the banking and insurance company.  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd (ANZ.AX  Westpac Banking Corp (WBC.AX 'From a strategic imperative perspective, you would argue that probably it would be great for someone like ANZ or NAB,' an M&amp;A adviser to banks told Reuters.  The source, who is not authorized to speak to the media, said ANZ and NAB have slipped behind their rivals after the St George and BankWest deals.  TEMPORARY SOLUTION?  Analysts say Suncorp could use the funds being raised to repair its bank balance sheet and make it attractive to suitors. 'If the answer is yes, then obviously the attractiveness of the bank to one of the majors will have gone up,' he added. Analysts say Suncorp's capital raising is only a temporary solution as the banking division would find it hard to compete for deposits against the 'AA' rated major Australian banks. Suncorp's long-term debt is rated a notch lower at 'A' by Standard &amp; Poor's. UBS, which had advised Suncorp on the bank sale last year, is also the sole underwriter for Suncorp's fund raising, which is expected to garner up to A$1.3 billion. 'I'm sure they must be considering either demerging the bank and selling it, or letting it trade on its own, or being open to people approaching them,' said another banker, who advises on financial deals, and was not authorized to speak to the media.  Suncorp announced the surprise resignation of its chief executive John Mulcahy last week and slashed its dividend. Bank valuations have dropped since Westpac launched its A$16 billion takeover of St George last year. Westpac paid about 1.6 times St George's net tangible assets, while CBA paid about 0.8 times for BankWest. 'CBA buying BankWest at 0.8 times net asset would be the levels people might be talking. There is no paying up for that asset,' the second banker said, referring to Suncorp's bank.  Media reports have speculated that ANZ offered about A$3.4 billion for Suncorp's banking unit last year in an all-stock deal. 'So it's unlikely that a different transaction is being contemplated,' said the first banker.  But ANZ also has the option to raise capital for the deal as it is the only one of Australia's top four banks not to have tapped the equity markets.  A source familiar with Suncorp's thinking said despite the spike in bad debts, Suncorp's bank would be in demand as it was one of the few remaining banks up for sale in Australia.  ($1=A$1.48)  (Editing by Muralikumar Anantharaman)  Thomson Reuters 2009 All rights reserved  A selection of our best photos from the past 24 hours. Slideshow
