Heading into the great financial meltdown in 2007, Kerr Nielson's Platinum Asset Management was riding an array of short positions in Wall Street investment banks. Neilson was betting, correctly, that the financials were going to fall.  That they did, like never before, plunging all the way into the hands of the taxpayers, and in Lehman Brothers' case, oblivion. But timing is everything in investment. The market kept rising, irrationally as it does. Platinum got tired of paying to hold the shorts - Lehman, Bear Sterns, Citigroup, Bank of America and Macquarie among them - and took most of them off.  Had Nielson held, as his former alma mater BT had done heading into the 1987 stock market crash, he would have been up an extra couple of billion dollars in his fastidiously-researched investment portfolios. Funds under management (the driver of Platinum's profits) would have been up further still when word of the trades had seeped back to the marketplace.  Platinum is a business which rests on reputation rather than marketing. Racking its latest set of profit numbers up against rival funds manager Perpetual however, shows it pays to advertise. Compared with Platinum's profit growth and higher investment returns, Perpetual's profits were well down yet Perpetual showed lower outflows from its funds.  Advertising advantage  Perpetual, like its fund management peers Colonial, AMP and AXA, does lots of advertising. It commands a large sales-force, spends a lot of advertising, it wines and dines its financial planners in style and they, in turn, send their clients Perpetual's way.  Platinum though eschews the marketing slog. Apart from a long-standing deal with MLC, it leans on no dealer network and has no sales force, preferring to simply rely on its name and performance to lure the savings.  And it shows in the numbers. Platinum's profit margins are fat.  Perpetual's funds management fee revenue for the six months to December was $189 million, way down on the bull market-fuelled $250 million in 2007. After expenses, amortisation, depreciation and tax the bottom line was $14.2 million - a far sight from the $87.6 million the year before though not a bad result in a horror trading environment.  And it came without CEO David Deverall really swinging the axe too violently. Staff expenses came back $10 million to $84 million.  Platinum, in contrast, posted $112 million in revenues for the half year, down from $166 million the year before. A slightly larger fall (on a percentage basis) than for Perpetual's funds management business.  On that $112 million in revenue, Platinum managed to wring out a post tax profit of $65 million. That profit represents almost 60% of revenue whereas Perpetual's profit was just 7.5% of its revenue. Many other financial institutions lost money.  Expenses  The main difference between the managers is the expense base. Perpetual chalked up roughly $120 million in expenses for the half against $18 million for Platinum.  At least compared to Platinum, Perpetual has a high cost base. It has substantial distribution costs, considerable advertising.  This cost hurt the bottom line but protected the business. Despite the relatively miserable performance last year for Perpetual, whose investment returns got trashed by the global market meltdown like most others, the group enjoyed net fund inflows on its wholesale side and trivial net outflows on the retail side. The financial planners, it appears, responded well to the attention.  In contrast, Platinum's flagship International fund began the December half with a unit price of $1.45 and finished the half at $1.64. That was despite the intense market ructions of September and October. Bear in mind it benefitted from the falling Australian dollar, and unlike Perpetual it employs shorting as a key investment tool. Despite this sharply superior performance it suffered fund outflows especially in its performance mandate funds. Continued  
