WESTPAC said today charges for bad and doubtful debts rose sharply in its first quarter, and joined Australia's other major banks in warning that rising impairments are wiping out profit growth.  The countrys biggest bank by market value said its cash profit - a smoothed measure closely watched by investors - fell 2 per cent on year on a proforma basis to $1.2 billion in the three months to December 31, after impairment charges rose to $800 million from $144 million a year earlier.  Westpac's impairment charge for the quarter included a $360 million increase in provisions for three large corporate customers, including a $300 million exposure to Babcock &amp; Brown International. The lender said it did not expect a repeat of the first quarter in terms of large corporate exposures.  Like Australia's other major lenders Westpac, which recently completed its merger with St George Bank, said it saw strong growth at the revenue line in the quarter, boosted by a pick up in deposits and improved margins.  'Our underlying performance remains solid as we continue to support our customers in what is clearly a deteriorating economic environment,' chief executive Gail Kelly said.  Volatility in global financial markets would result in a challenging 2009, Mrs Kelly said, but added the group was well positioned.  COMPANY PROFILE and TECHNICAL CHART  Chief financial officer Phil Coffey told analysts that he did not anticipate a repeat of the scale of the group's individual corporate impairments in the future, but noted that pressure was trickling down to smaller customers.  He said asset quality in the bank's corporate and commercial portfolio continued to deteriorate in line with the weakening of economic activity.  Mr Coffey's comments echoed similar statements made by Australia's other major banks - including National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank.  Analysts widely expect at least some of the nation's lenders to trim dividend levels in coming months. Mrs Kelly said that the lender's directors would consider payout levels before the release of its first-half result, taking into account a number of factors.  Shares of Westpac were down 2.2 per cent at $16.41, mirroring the broader market. The benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 index was down 2.1 per cent.  Still, traders were fairly positive. One senior trader said that the update was 'solid', and the rise in bad debts expected.  The bank recorded a 2.4 per cent increase in total lending during the first quarter, boosted by mortgage and business lending. Deposits were up 9.6 per cent from the prior quarter.  However, lending growth in its institutional bank and in New Zealand was slower.  The group said delinquencies in its consumer portfolio were 'a little higher' during the quarter, but overall losses and charges remain small.  Wealth management arm BT Financial continued to be impacted by market volatility, while the group's New Zealand business was 'operating satisfactorily in a very tough environment'.  The bank said its capital position remained strong, with its tier one capital ratio at 8.3 per cent at the end of the period.  It also said it has benefited from the reopening of global capital markets, and has raised around $13 billion of term wholesale funding.  The group's first quarter results are on a proforma basis, meaning its accounts were prepared as if earnings from St George were consolidated into Westpac from October 1, 2007.  
