3:00 pm ET Executives  Dawn Benchelt  Investor Relations Director  Mark E. Zalatoris  President &amp; Chief Executive Officer  Brett A. Brown  Chief Financial Officer, Vice President and Treasurer  D. Scott Carr  President of Inland Commercial Property Management, Inc.  Analysts  Paul E. Adornato  BMO Capital Markets  Jeffrey J. Donnelly  Wachovia Securities  Alex Barron  Agency Trading Group  Stephen Everett  Multi-Financial Securities  Presentation  Operator  Welcome to the Inland Real Estate Corporation 2008 fourth quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) Now, I would like to turn the conference over to Dawn Benchelt. Dawn Benchelt Thank you for joining us for Inland Real Estate Corporation fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call. The fourth quarter earnings release and supplemental financial package have been filed with the SEC today, February 12, 2009, and posted to our website which is www.inlandrealestate.com were hosting a live webcast of today call, which is accessible on our website.  Before we begin, please note that todays discussion contains forward-looking statements, which are managements intentions, beliefs, expectations, representations, plans or predictions of the future. There are numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward looking statements. For a complete discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please refer to the documents filed by the company with the SEC, specifically our annual report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2007.   Participating on todays call will be Mark Zalatoris, Inlands President and Chief Executing Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Brett Brown, and Scott Carr, President of Property management.  Now Ill turn the call over the Mark.  Mark Zalatoris  Id like to start the call with a few comments on the business environment and the steps weve been taking to protect and position the company. Beginning in 2007, we recognized that retailers were beginning to slowdown there leasing decisions. We also noted a growing back log of non-secured ties CMBS debt indicating diminished apptit for this investment vehicle.   These were two clear indicators to us in the significantly more challenging business climate ahead. Accordingly, we took the following actions over the last 18 months. We organized our leasing and property management teams to maximums there effectiveness in an increasingly difficult operating environment. We enhanced our internal reporting and analyze capabilities by adding to our software tools. We limited new development joint venture projects, and we further strengthened our balance sheet.   Notwithstanding these proactive measures, its fair to say that no one fully anticipated the scope and severity of the current economic crisis, and with the ongoing housing and credit market problems and unemployment continuing to rise the timing of the recovery for a consumer driven economy remains uncertain. Therefore throughout the coming months we plan to maintain an intense focus on disciplined property management and balance sheet strengths.   There is no doubt that the challenges we will face in the months ahead will be formidable. However Id like to outline what we see as our three key competitive advantages for operating through this environment. We have a portfolio of well located assets that specialize primarily in necessity and value based retail.   We have a relatively stable financial position with very limited near-term secure debt maturities and access to capital through established lending relationships, and our teams of real estate and retail experts have deep roots in our core Midwest markets and experience managing through economic cycles. We believe our business strategy is sound and will continue to resonate with investors. That strategy is to generate our income primarily through a portfolio catering to the everyday needs of consumers in stable Midwest markets.  Im pleased to note that our total return for 2008, while slightly negative, significantly outperformed the S&amp;P 500, the Mortgage Stanley U.S. freeze index and our shopping center peers. Id like to briefly review our results for the quarter and the year overall. Ill also provide an update on our joint venture activities. Scott will follow with a report on our portfolio performance, and then Brett will review our financial results.   For the fourth quarter, we reported funds from operations or FFO of $0.26 per share, a decrease of almost 28% from $0.36 per share in the prior year. Now these results include non-cash charges of $8.4 million or $0.13 per share to record the other than temporary decline in value certain investment securities.   FFO per share for the year 2008 was $1.33, a decrease of 7% or $0.10 from the prior years $1.43 per share. Again, FFO for the year included aggregate non-cash charges of $12 million or $0.18 per share related to the other than temporary in decline of value investment securities.  Obviously, were very disappointed that our FFO results came in below guidance. The continued deterioration in the equity market and necessitated write-downs for investments that where significantly larger than we had expected. These larger than expected impairments where the main reason our FFO results were below the guidance rage. Id like to note that excluding the non-cash charges for the investment securities, FFO per share increased 8.3% to $0.39 for the fourth quarter, and 5.6% to $1.51 for the full year 2008.   Id like to now review our portfolio leasing activities. For the fourth quarter, average base rents on renewal leases increased more than 18% over expiring rates. We believe this reflects the appeal of our infill locations and the strength of our existing tenant relationships.   Resident new leases declined slightly by 60 basis points, this does reflect the sector-wide drop in demand for new space by retailers that have reduced sales projection after recording depressed holiday sales results. For the year, we recorded strong leasing volumes overall. This was in spite of market conditions that worsened dramatically in the second half of 08.   We leased nearly two million square feet of GLA in the total portfolio during 2008, a 37% increase over 2007. We also delivered solid rental rate increases on both new and renewal leases for the portfolio. For the year, average base rents increased more than 12% on new leases and nearly 11% on renewal leases over the expiring rate.   We believe that our overall portfolio performance for the fourth quarter and the year was respectable, given the current environment, and reflects the resiliency of grocery and value anchored retail assets in strong regional markets. However, looking ahead we expect that overall retailer distress will continue to have an impact on leasing gains and occupancy this year. Scott will provide more detail on the retail environment and leasing a little later in the call.   Moving to the balance sheet, within a tight credit market, we leveraged well established lending relationships and added new ones as well to gain attractively priced access to capital. Last April, we renewed a three-year $155 million revolving line of credit with a group of five banks.   And in September we secured a $140 million term loan, which we used to retire all remaining 2008 debt maturities and pay down our line of credit. And during the fourth quarter, we also reduced leverage on the balance sheet with the repurchase of $15.5 million of our convertible notes at a discount to the original face amount.  As we said on the last call, we expect our line of credit and cash flows from operations to provide more than adequate resources to address secure debt maturities coming due in the future. And Brett will provide statues on the repayment of mortgage debt that is scheduled to expire in 2009.  Id now like to briefly review our joint venture initiatives. Turning to the IREX joint venture, the capital that we allocate to this venture generates fee income that has proven to be particularly valuable when market turmoil impacts core portfolio performance. Looking at the year, we generated $3.2 million in fee income from the IREX joint venture. Thats an increase of almost 33% over 2007.   Last month we completed syndicated sales to 1031 exchange investors in the Fox Run square property, a 143,000 square foot grocery acreage shopping center in Naperville, Illinois. The current inventory of IREX joint venture properties to be sold includes four Bank of America occupied buildings acquired in the third quarter, and an 18,000 square foot office building in Merrillville, Indiana that is 100% leased to the University of Phoenix.   All these properties have high quality tenants and long-term leases with annual increases. We believe these attributes make them attractive investments. The Bank of America buildings are being marketed to investors in two separate offerings. And currently each of the Bank of America deals are nearly 50% committed with closing expected in the first three quarter of 2009.  We originally anticipated sourcing of $100 million in asset acquisition value for the IREX joint venture in 2008, and Im pleased to report that we exceeded that amount by 80%. This essentially pre-funds our 2009 acquisition pipeline. We expect that our JV partner, Inland Real Estate Exchange Corporation, will continue to turn to us for product in 09.  Although overall demand from 1031 exchange investors has slowed due to the market environment, IREX is one of the few sponsors that actually increased its sales to investors in 2008. In fact, IREX is increasing its market share at the expense of under capitalized competitors who have been forced to exit the marketplace. That being said, future acquisition for the IREX JV will depend on the timing of pending syndications, as well as our own capital requirements and the overall acquisitions market.  ...
