ANZ chief Mike Smith declares the bank's 'roadmap' for recovery is tracking to plan. This is playing out very much as I told you last year, he told analysts this morning. The underlying business is going well, especially in the Asia Pacific. We are dealing with the issues as they arise. Contrast this with most other major offshore banks, whose sat-nav devices have led them blindly up the proverbial creek and into the arms of their government rescuers. But our Big Four are reading the treacherous terrain with the dexterity of an earnest boy scout.   ANZ's assurances in its quarterly update follow Westpac's trading commentary last week, as well as the Commonwealth Bank's interim results a week earlier.   There's a clear pattern emerging: operating income has been resilient, partly because deposits are flowing back to the bigger, trusted players and because they've been able to restore lending margins by not passing on the full extent of official interest rate cuts. In this environment we are able to price-risk sensibly and appropriately for the first time in many years, Smith says. Lending growth has slowed markedly, but so too has the requirement for scarce capital. At the same time, they've been attacking costs like the rabid rottweilers that bankers become when nourishment becomes scarce.   Bad debts are scary, but as per market expectations. After last year's loan-loss shocks from the big-name bad boy clients, there've been no further mega-shocks. But it's also true that arrears across the board have been creeping up: the ANZ cites unsecured consumer lending (thats credit cards to the layman) and the Esanda equipment-financing arm.   Smith said the bank lost $800 million during the first four months of the financial year (October to January), with full-year slated at $2.5 billion as previously indicated.   Smith this morning became one of those rare CEOs to take a punt on the outlook: banking conditions will flatten out this year, with some loan recoveries easing the pain of inevitable further problems. I'm not looking at this through rose-coloured glasses, but a reasonable view is that halfway through 2010, we will see some improvement, he says. The worst news for retail investors is that ANZ will need to slash its full-year dividend by 25 per cent, to save $500 million. Once, again, no one should really have expected last year's $1.36 a share payout to be maintained.   Criterion last had ANZ as a long-term through the cycle buy at $14.27 after the bank's mid-December AGM. Our rating is under REVIEW, but we're certainly no less negative despite the clear dangers.   borehamt@theaustralian.com.au  The Australian accepts no responsibility for stock recommendations. The author does not hold an interest in any of the stocks mentioned. Readers should contact a licensed financial adviser. 
