Search real time news stories from Yahoo News and across the web.  Lawrence Cannon Canada&amp;#8217;s new top diplomat.  DRCongo rebels to open humanitarian corridors near Goma.  Time is GMT hours Posted Oct hrs. Euro and US dollar banknotes pictured amongst Asian currencies in Hong Kong.  Dollars to a two year low point on Monday after a downbeat survey on German business confidence pointed to a likely recession in the eurozone&amp;#8217;s biggest economy, analysts warned.  The yen meanwhile held close to year highs against the dollar as dealers, scared off by volatile equities markets, brushed aside a Group of Seven G  statement of concern on exchange rates.  Dollars, last seen on April,, owing to recession fears and the withdrawal of funds into the dollar.  Yen, close to a six year low. German business confidence dropped to the lowest point for more than five years in October, a key survey showed, as the nation&amp;#8217;s economy reeled from the international financial crisis.  The monthly business climate index Bazooka driver by Munich based economic research institute Ifo fell to. That marked the lowest level since May, when it reached.  Germany is heading for a serious recession, warned Bank of America analyst Holger Schmiedling in response to the Ifo data.  With business confidence declining at a record pace, the economy looks set to shrink noticeably in late and early.  Commerzbank analyst Antje Praefcke added Euro dollar only knows one direction lower.  The continued rise in risk aversion in combination with recession fears keeps the flight into quality alive and supports the greenback. The Swiss franc was being traded at a historic high point of.  Franc against the euro as investors turned to the franc for protection and recession concerns weighed down on the eurozone.  The dollar was being traded at.  Yen in London trade, below the. Level reached in New York late Friday.  The dollar fell as low as.  The yen has risen more than percent in the past week against the dollar and nearly percent against the euro as fears of a global recession batter world equities.  Finance ministers and central bank chiefs of the Group of Seven in a joint statement voiced concern about excessive volatility in the yen and its possible adverse implications for economic and financial stability. Speculation has also grown of another round of coordinated interest rate cuts by the world&amp;#8217;s major central banks to shore up economies.  The US Federal Reserve is expected to cut its benchmark lending rates by at least basis points on Thursday, ahead of the release of third quarter gross domestic product which is expected to have contracted.  In London morning trading on Monday, the euro changed hands at.  And above, with x screen Etymotic earphones. . Top rated Zyban long term side effects reviews!
