Well, so much for an immediate crude-oil bounce from fresh progress on the Wall Street bailout. Crude is in full retreat, dipping below $95 a barrel, despite the Senates endorsement of a revised financial rescue plan. So the big question is: What is really driving oil pricesthe dollar, or demand?   Keep your footing (AP)  First, the bailout package was seen as too little, too late, driving oil prices down. Then, when the House shot down the rescue plan, oil markets got even more nervous and plummeted, fearing a full-blown U.S. recession that would see people burning their SUVs to keep warm. So why hasnt oil recovered after the Senate rode to the rescue? One explanation is the suddenly stronger greenback. Thanks to hopes the sweetened bailout bill might muster House support tomorrowand thanks to a tanking European economythe dollar is at a one-year high against the euro. That makes oil and other commodities less attractive as a hedge against inflation, pushing oil prices down. What about the impact of good old supply and demand? The Street seems to think it cuts both ways. Barclays notes that the U.S., the worlds biggest oil consumer, is belt-tightening even faster and harder than initial data appeared to show; demand for gasoline cratered in July, when oil (and gasoline) hit record highs. Barclays figures that wasnt a one-off: US demand weakness may well have gotten distinctly worse as Q3 progressed.  Even if China is still ravenously slurping oil, U.S. and European weakness have got to take some steam out of the market. Barclays cant see oil over $105 if the American economy goes south. Merrill Lynchs worst-case scenario for a global recession sees oil at $50 a barrel, though the bank figures $90 oil is a more reasonable target. Yet, Barclays says, a real supply gut seems unlikely, despite recent increases in Saudi Arabian production. Many OPEC members like Venezuela and Iran are still itching to cut back output, and many non-OPEC members are watching output fall whatever they do.  That, and the fact that exotic stripes of oil cost a lot of money to get out of the ground, suggests oil cant fall much below $90 a barrel either, Barclays says. Trying to predict the oil market is more dismal than most parts of the dismal science. The consensus seems to be mixed: Weakening demand will keep oil prices out of the stratosphere, but supply-side worries will keep oil from dropping back to earth anytime soon.        
