To say the least, the past few weeks have been scary. We've heard words like 'recession,' 'crisis' and 'catastrophic' used in ways and with a frequency that we haven't witnessed before in many of our lifetimes.Of course, those words are being used in the context of the recent financial downturn. It's amazing how things can change so quickly. Most Americans would have acknowledged that the economy was struggling a little more than a month ago when the Republicans and Democrats conducted their conventions. But there was no hint that things were turning this bad.I don't pretend to be a financial expert, but I have a few thoughts from the past week that, perhaps, have crossed your minds as well.AIG fiasco - The insurance giant received an $85 billion loan from the federal government in September and reportedly will receive an additional $37.8 billion loan to help provide liquid-ity. In between, the company financed a $400,000-plus getaway for agents affiliated with the company.What's wrong with this picture? And, perhaps more importantly, why aren't our lawmakers fuming mad?The argument for the first bailout was that AIG was too large to allow to fail. Maybe that was true. But shouldn't the government have imposed a few conditions before making such a large loan? It seems to me that a precondition for the second loan should be that AIG executives who allowed such a frivolous expense be fired prior to any additional influx of funds.Handouts - I find it interesting that our federal government hasn't had money to fully fund children's health care insurance for the underprivileged, but it suddenly has money to give to seemingly every large, failing corporation. A few billion here, $700 billion there, all to help prevent a deeper recession.It looks like we're giving money to just about everyone - except taxpayers.I realize up front that this is a dramatic oversimplification, but I can't help but wonder. What if that $700 billion had been given back to the American people to pay off their debts and to fuel spending in the economy?Gasoline prices - I've been fascinated about how the problems on Wall Street have brought down the price of oil. Americans - in fact, many people throughout the world - are using less oil. That has driven the price of a barrel of oil down from more than $145 per barrel to less than $90 per barrel.The frustration is that as fast as gasoline prices climbed a few months ago when the cost of a barrel of oil spiked, now that oil prices are falling, our costs at the pump are lagging. Here's a quick illustration, in February, the price of a barrel of oil was $88.11 and the average price of a gallon of gasoline in the United States was $2.97. This past week, the price of a barrel of oil was $89.23, and the gasoline cost, on average, was $3.40. I doubt $1.12 on a barrel of oil correlates with 43 cents at the pump.Somebody, somewhere, is gouging us at a time when families can't afford for that to happen. I don't think it's the local gasoline stations. I think it's the oil companies themselves and the middlemen who bring the gasoline to market.They are the ones who are extremely secretive about their costs. They are the ones who appear to be dodging questions on the subject. That makes me think they have something to hide.Like I said earlier, these are just a few of the things that have crossed my mind. Go to this column online by going to www.thespectrum.com and clicking on 'Voices and Views.' Post your comment at the end and let us know what your frustrations are with the recent economic news.Contact Editor Todd Seifert at 674-6235, or via e-mail at tseifert@thespec trum.com.Copyright 2008 The Spectrum Use of this site signifies your agreement to the  and Privacy Policy , updated March 2007.
