While server virtualisation increases operational efficiencies and management flexibility, and reduces total cost of ownership, it can also increase security risks. Here's an explanation of how.One of the best things you can do to help keep your PC and your private data safe is to stay abreast of the latest security alerts. But security news stories often contain techie jargon that can make your eyes glaze over faster than a congressional session on C-SPAN.Seeking better visibility into the traffic crossing its extensive network, Wayne State University turned to NBA software from Q1 Labs.In the world of comic books, every bad guy is an evil genius. On the web, hackers, spammers, and phishers may be evil, but they're not required to be geniuses. Here are ten ways to defend yourself against them, genius or not.Network admins with too much control are a common problem - and one that needs fixing, CIOs warn.CAPTCHA used to be an easy and useful way for web administrators to authenticate users. Now it's an easy and useful way for malware authors and spammers to do their dirty work.Are your security staffers are trustworthy? Competent? Knowledgeable? Ask a security professional for horror stories and you might think again.For a small but growing number of large UK organisations, the photocopier, and its partner in crime, the networked printer, are wide-open doors.We're often asked why certain products won an award - or why others didn't. We don't want the judges' decision to be shrouded in secrecy so this year we're setting out why the winners triumphed.We hear from Sourcefire CTO Martin Roesch why virtualisation is still Terra Incognita for network security technologists - and why he believes his company is worth more its rivals and the stock market seem to think.The virtual flood gates have been opened and social networking is rushing in from the personal lives of employees and into the workplace - bringing a host of concerns along with it.Phones are business computers operating outside the firewall. It's only a matter of time before there's a serious mobile virus outbreak.When the Commonwealth of Massachusetts issued Michael Fiola a Dell Latitude in November 2006, it set off a chain of events that would cost him his job, his friends and about a year of his life, as he fought criminal charges that he had downloaded child pornography on to the laptop.Crypto 'ransom' malware executes the perfect zero day attack, from which only mathematicians can save us. But is this type of virus really that big a fear?A pattern has been emerging from the background noise over the last few weeks which suggests that something is taking place that is resulting in an increasing number of successful attacks against moderate to large sites.The database security laws passed by 39 states cause businesses substantial expense. Worse, there is no evidence that they actually work.Users of the professional-oriented social networking site LinkedIn are being warned that scam artists are using the site to nab lucrative bank account information from naive victims, say security experts.Kevin Kelly explains eight 'generatives' - things that can't be copied and so still hold value on the Internet.Understanding buyers and sellers, and a little theory about behavioural economics.
