As Congress works on a bailout plan, Hoosiers still have plenty of questions about how the current economic crisis will affect them.We want to help answer your questions about your retirement, your credit, mortgages and bank protection.The following questions were answered by Dr. Matt Will, University of Indianapolis, Elaine Bedel, Bedel Financial, and Jay Barclay, DCS Wealth, during our 5:30 pm broadcast.Email your questions to yourmoney@wthr.com. Links Viewer questions These are some of the questions we've heard from viewers. If you want to provide your input on any of these questions, or add your own concerns, please leave a comment below.Vehicle lease and other big expenses1. We are approaching the end of our current vehicle lease. Should we be worried about not being able to get credit when it is due for return? It is due to be returned next spring. We have good credit. However we are a single income home. We do not have credit card balances and have some cash in reserve. We also have a home equity line of credit with a zero balance and a home mortgage that has never been late. Answer: If you're asking whether you'll be able to renew your lease, the answer is probably you'll be fine. The manufacturer will make sure there's a way to finance that vehicle - and you're probably better off looking to lease through the car dealership rather than a bank.2. We were planning to pay for a spring wedding reception using a credit card that has a zero percent interest rate until June. Half of the balance is due in mid-November. Should we prepay the entire reception now by credit card, or should we try to pay what we can in cash, and use the credit card for the remaining balance?Answer: Using a credit card with zero interest rate has its benefits...as long as it doesn't create bad habits! Be sure to pay off the entire balance in June or you'll end up potentially paying higher interest rates than we've seen in the past.Lines of credit and loan applicationsOur experts say that banks will be making decisions on loans at a higher level than they have in the past. That means it will take longer to get a loan. It will also be harder to get that loan because of the credit crunch. Banks have less money to loan out. Even if you have good credit, it's possible that you'll see your line of credit reduced. Getting a home equity loan or a student loan will also likely become more difficult.Investing in stocks 1. I need your help. First let me say, my husband is disabled and I am now taking care of everything. He tells me last evening that he wants to buy Ford Motor Co. stock. I am totally in the dark when it comes to things like this and especially now with the economy the way it is.Is this a good time to invest, or would I be crazy to do so at this time?Answer: I would not invest in Ford due to their junk bond rating. But it's probably a good time to invest in the stock market if it's appropriate for you to be in the stock market. Don't try to be a speculative investor - you're not going to get rich quick.2. What advice do you have for those of us who have a diversified stock portfolio? We have been advised to stay put. Answer: That's good advice - if allocations are appropriate and you can leave your money in the stock market for a minimum of five years. Go into fixed income securities if you need the money in less than five years.401(K)1. I was just wondering how will this market downfall affect my 401(K) at my job. Or should I think about looking at seeing if I could pull my money out?Answer: No - because you get a penalty for early withdrawal and it's fully taxed...immediately. Depending on what you're invested in, if you don't need the money for a while, leave it in there and allow it to rebound.2. My question is If your 401(K) through your employer is invested in multiple stocks should you transfer it into a money market account until things stabilize? Answer: If it's in the stock market and it's appropriate to be there, leave it there - otherwise you miss opportunities to regain the value. Consider reviewing individual securities that you own to be sure that there is sufficient diversification. If not, you may want to sell out of those and get more diversified.3. With all the turmoil going on with the finances of this country I've lost $6,000 in the last month in my 401(K) plan. Would it be smart to remove the remaining $65,000 and move it to a bank savings account just as long as I don't go over $100,000.00? I also have a separate stock investment fund that is losing money. Should I move that into a bank account as well until the economy gets better?Answer: If you were properly invested six months ago, you shouldn't be changing anything based on what happened Monday or Tuesday. Your big question to answer: were you invested properly?4. When I left my last employer, I transferred a small 401(K) ($20,000) to Edward Jones. Should I leave the money alone or would a transfer to a savings account, IRA or T bills be better? Answer: If you have a 401K, your only option is to transfer to an IRA to avoid paying taxes on it. Within the IRA, there are options to invest in money market accounts, treasury bills, equity market stocks, etc. If you've been pleased with Edward Jones' services, your money should be safe with them.National City National City's problems really scare me. All of the problems have been national and National City problems seem to be local problems. What can we do?Answer: Like all banks, National City is going through a difficult time. If all of your accounts are covered by FDIC insurance, your money should be safe.$100,000 FDIC limitI have a joint CD with my two adult children. All three of us have equal rights to the account. I was concerned about the account only being insured for $100,000, so I went to the bank today to see what my options were for insuring the money. A bank employee told me today that each of us will be insured up to $100,000 on this account ($100,000 for me, $100,000 for my daughter, and $100,000 for my son.) Is this correct? Answer: Yes - that's correct. Refinancing problemsWhy is it that our government is quick to bail out a stock market but yet the real problem that needs rescued is homeowners? I bought a home and never missed a payment and never late, but because of foreclosures I can't refinance an FHA loan to a lower rate because the value of my home dropped, yet I lost income due to cutbacks and was advised to walk away like others have if I can't afford what interest I'm paying. What a company! I think asking people to walk out on a government loan so they can get their money from our government/taxpayers is wrong.Maybe our government needs to rescue us from big companies that advise you to walk away and turn their backs on us.Answer: The people on Wall Street have more influence than the people on Main Street when it comes to making these decisions. Whether there should be a bailout for homeowners is subject to debate.AIGWe have an IRA Annuity with AIGA Insurance Company, a subsidiary of AIG. It is our understanding that it is insured by the State Guarantee Association. Is our AIGA IRA Annuity secure with the State Guarantee Association? As secure as the FDIC? What should we be doing with our IRA at this time?Answer: The underlying assets might be insured but any guarantees offered by AIG and the annuity could be lost if AIG goes out of business. 529 plansHow will the current market crisis affect educational 529 plans?Answer: 529 plans are not impacted, but investments within them will go up and down as the general market goes. Investments inside the 529 will be affected just like any other investments in a brokerage account.MortgagesOur fixed rate ARM loan will exit fixed rate after one year. What advice do you have?Answer: Wait and see what your new rate is going to be. You also should make sure your credit rating is as clean as possible. If there's a better rate available, try to secure a fixed-rate mortgage - but it all depends on how long you plan to stay in the house.Once the ARM comes off the fixed rate, it may not rise that much. 
