Health care premiums rose almost six times faster than earnings, in Alaska, during the past seven years, according to a recent report. "People are paying more and more and receiving less and less," said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, the Washington, D.C.-based health care advocacy nonprofit that issued the report. "As a result, people who used to take health coverage for granted are increasingly at risk of joining the ranks of the uninsured and underinsured," Pollack said. While health insurance premiums rose 73.6 percent to an annual cost of $12,942, the median earnings of Alaska workers rose just 13 percent between 2000 and 2007, to $30,931. Insurance packages are also getting "thinner," Pollack said, meaning less services are covered and copayments and deductibles are increasing. Families "go bankrupt from medical expenses before the first insurance dollar is paid," said Larry Weiss, executive director of the Alaska Center for Public Policy. He likened the health insurance plans currently being sold to consumers to the sub-prime mortgages that have ruined thousands of families. "The insurance companies know that these families cannot possibly cash in on that insurance, because the deductibles and co-payments are so high," Weiss said. The recent Kodiak Island Community Health Assessment confirmed the dire state of health coverage among community members. According to the assessment, 15 percent of Kodiakans do not have health insurance and 19 percent of dependent children are not covered by any health plan. The nationwide average for children without health insurance is 12 percent. Brenda Friend, executive director of the Kodiak Community Health Center, said the center has noticed the trend. "The number of uninsured is escalating," Friend said. "People are having to make choices such as, Do I keep my health insurance or do I pay my oil bill?" Friend said KCHC is still working with the same level of state funding granted when it opened more than four years ago, before the rise in the number of uninsured and underinsured patients. "If that number increases so high, it will come to the point where we will have to limit our services and availability," Friend said. "I'm hoping that day will never come." Health care premiums are getting so expensive, KCHC is having trouble providing care to its employees. It creates "a bad perception if a community health center who advocates for the uninsured and underinsured, can't even afford to pay for their own employees' health insurance coverage," Friend said. "It's a very difficult situation. Our premiums are over $20,000 a month, and that isn't covering all our employees and it's not a luxurious plan. Every year it goes up and covers less. "I would like to see a lot more state support," Friend said. Weiss agreed the state needed to intervene to alleviate problems facing health care in Alaska. "We really need to think about stable, public, direct funding. (Community health centers) are very underfunded, and we need to fund them directly," Weiss said. "We also need to maximize the public health insurance programs such as Denali Kid Care," he said. Most Americans receive health coverage through their job, sharing the cost of the premiums with their employer. The rising premiums burden both citizens and businesses. For family health coverage, the study said, the employer's portion of the premiums increased 80.5 percent since 2000, while the employee's portion increased 54.2 percent. For individual health coverage, the employer's portion increased 59.1 percent, while the employee's portion shot up by 103.8 percent. Pollack said the rising health care premiums are a "triple whammy" for workers. "Premiums are going up very quickly. The portion of the cost that they pay, both in premiums and deductible and copayments, is growing faster than what the employer is paying," he said. "And third, because the employer still is paying considerably higher costs, it means the employer is less likely to provide wage increases. "So all of this ultimately results in harm to the workers throughout Alaska," Pollack said. Jesse Glamann, manager of Mack's Sports Shop, said he has not had to cut health care benefits, but the cost of health is a consideration in deciding wages. "That is a benefit, so it's almost like a wage," Glamann said. Weiss said the rising premium costs were also harming the competitiveness of Alaska businesses compared to businesses from other countries. "Most other countries have absorbed the cost of health care in other ways," he said. The financial crisis facing the American economy is likely to further increase health care premiums as insurance companies seek to recover lost investment profits, Weiss said. Meanwhile, he said, the housing collapse is making it more likely for families to run into financial trouble and have to forego health care. More than half of bankruptcy filings in America are due in part to medical costs, according to a 2005 study. Friend said many Kodiak families may be eligible for health care at reduced rates at KCHC, which maintains a "very generous" definition of financial need. "There's a lot of people that don't know the services that are out there," Friend said. "People that before weren't eligible for a sliding scale are starting to fall into a higher category." Mirror writer Jan Huisman can be reached at jhuisman@kodiakdailymirror.com.
