When G T Ferreira, Laurie Dippenaar and Paul Harris of RMB took over First National Bank in 1998, very few of its top management survived.But Viv Bartlett, MD of FNB until three years ago, was an exception.'I had been trying to move the bank away from its monolithic culture to encourage a more entrepreneurial one, with more personal responsibility and reward. The RMB boys accelerated this.'Bartlett says it was a relief to end what he calls the era of banana skins at the bank. This was when previous bosses of FNB such as Barry Swart were forced to resign (when he gave his daughter a lucrative decorating contract).Bartlett has had a packed past two years as a consultant on the listing of Visa, the credit-card issuers.'There were complaints from the US authorities that Visa was run as a bank cartel, which of course wasn't true. All the banks around the world who issued Visas were forced to sell 51% of their interest to a new listed company. And FNB, as the biggest Visa issuer in SA, made the biggest windfall profits.'Bartlett was at FNB (then called Barclays) when it issued its first Visa credit cards in the 1960s and when it began its ATMs in the 1970s. But he says it had become much less innovative by the time of the FirstRand takeover.He believes it is a blessing that exchange control has isolated FNB and its peers from the worst of the global financial crisis. It also helped that there had already been a shake-out of second-tier banks in SA with only the large, well-capitalised and conservative big four left standing.'Everyone has to take a part of the blame for that [the global financial crisis] whether it is central bankers who kept interest rates too low, politicians for encouraging lending to low-income people who couldn't pay, or, obviously, bankers for stupid lending decisions. It is also a problem of a society that has been bingeing on credit for years.'Bartlett lives on a golf estate and had hoped to spend more time playing golf. But he seldom gets the opportunity. He is on the FirstRand board and on the divisional board of FNB. He also acts as a mentor to a number of small companies. 
