SOLON, Ohio--(BUSINESS WIRE)--National Drive Safely Work Week is October 6  10, 2008. Insurance.com, the leading online independent auto insurance agency in the United States, joins the Network for Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS) in urging safe driving practices at or while commuting to or from the nations workplaces.This years campaign is focusing on raising awareness of the special needs and considerations of all roadway users. The campaign has tips for not just drivers of cars, but for motorcyclists, pedestrians, cyclists and truck drivers.Drive Safe and SaveAccording to a 2003 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration study, the average accident costs an employer $16,500. However, accidents and violations can have a direct cost to the driver as well, increasing their auto insurance premium.Insurance.coms data supports the relationship between safe driving and lower premiums. Compare the average price of a policy sold by Insurance.com during 2008, from 15 companies nationwide, for customers with no traffic violations to those with 2 or more violations: Average Premium by Violation 0 Violations = $1,420 1 Violation = $1,601 2 Violations = $1,849 3 Violations = $2,006 4 Violations = $2,168 Likewise, even claims can cost you. Compare the price of a premium for consumers with no claims to those with 1, 2 or even more: Average Premium by Claim 0 Claims = $1,387 1 Claim = $1,689 2 Claims = $2,041 3 Claims = $2,348 4 Claims = $2,806 (Data based on policies sold by Insurance.com between January 1, 2008 and September 15, 2008.)Better drivers pay less, on average, for their auto insurance, explains Sam Belden, Director of Consumer Experience at Insurance.com. As our data shows, your driving history, and the number of violations or claims youve filed, can have a direct impact on your monthly insurance premiums. Obey the traffic laws, and be a careful and considerate driver. At the very least, you could realize significant savings on your policy.Belden suggests that drivers may want to consider driving courses as a possible path to car insurance savings. Many insurance companies offer discounts for drivers who take defensive driving courses. Such courses are often considered by insurers to be proof that drivers are actively pursuing safer driving practices. For more information about how violations and claims affect insurance rates, visit www.insurance.com.About Insurance.comInsurance.com is the leading online independent auto insurance agency in the United States. Consumers can instantly compare quotes from top auto insurance companies by completing one application at our website, www.insurance.com. To buy a policy, consumers have the option to complete the transaction online or speak with a licensed agent. Our innovative technology links directly to the rating systems at 15 major insurance companies, streamlining the shopping process for consumers and enabling companies to attract new customers through real-time underwriting and quoting.In addition to providing comparative quotes at Insurance.com, the company provides white label auto insurance solutions to financial institutions, affinity groups and online marketplaces. Other products include life, health and home insurance as well as travel, dental and pet health insurance. Founded in 2000, Insurance.com is based in Solon, Ohio.
