 FRANKFURT/BUENOS AIRES -- European Central Bank policymakers on Wednesday doused speculation that slowing growth and lower oil prices would lead to lower interest rates any time soon. ECB Vice President Lucas Papademos said further rate rises could even be needed if stubbornly high inflation sparked a wage-price spiral in the 15-nation euro zone. Although Malta's Michael Bonello said no course of action should be ruled out, fellow policymakers Axel Weber and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi echoed Papademos and took a tough stance against cutting interest rates from their 4.25 percent. Papademos said the ECB's 'main and serious concern' was that current high inflation would spark a vicious cycle of knock-on effects on wage demands and firms' pricing behaviour. 'If this materialises, it will adversely and perversely affect growth and the purchasing power of households,' he told a seminar in Buenos Aires. 'It will require a stronger degree of monetary tightening in order to achieve price stability in a sustained manner.' Investors responded by pushing back expectations for 2009 rate cuts, with EONIA futures showing the probability of a cut by February almost halved to one-in-four from 50-50 earlier. But pricing for this year was little changed after Papademos, Weber and Bonello all said current rates remained appropriate for now. Bonello said in an interview with Reuters that expectations for no further rate changes this year were consistent with the ECB's official stance of 'no bias' on rates. Asked if markets were in tune with ECB thinking, he said: 'If you look at the yield curve, the feeling in the markets, I don't think there is any further tightening built into market expectations. By and large they are (in tune).' Economists said the flood of comments made it clear no rate cut was imminent despite the recent easing in oil and food prices and a faltering economy. 'Overall, it seems that officials are sending a defiant message that policy easing is not seen as an option for this year in the context of current inflation pressures, expectations and risks,' Barclays Capital economist Julian Callow said. A Reuters poll taken before the comments showed analysts expect a cut in the first quarter of 2009. LABOUR COSTS A WORRY Papademos said inflation, which was a record 4 percent in July, would only fall gradually during 2009. There were also signs of increasing domestic inflation pressures, he said, pointing to rapid growth in labour costs. ECB figures show negotiated wages rose at an annual rate of 2.8 percent in the second quarter, close to the 12-year high of 2.88 percent in the first quarter. In an interview with a German newspaper published late on Tuesday, ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said there were already 'broad-based' second-round effects from high energy costs pushing up wages and prices. That was the strongest signal yet from the ECB that a wage-price spiral may already be starting. Still, Germany's Weber told Bloomberg news agency that he did not see massive broad-based second-round effects as yet, although inflation risks remained a key concern. 'Monetary policy at the moment is roughly where it should be and I think the discussion about declining rates in Europe is premature,' he was quoted as saying. 'If the economic outlook brightens somewhat again towards the end of the year and next year, which I still expect, we'll have to see if action is necessary.' In an interview with an Italian magazine, Bini Smaghi said the July increase was needed to avoid a worsening in inflation. 'If the central bank decided to stimulate the economy by lowering interest rates this would have the effect of increasing inflation. Are we sure that is what we want?' he told Conservatori Contemporanei. STAFF FORECASTS DUE Both Weber and Bonello said they expected ECB staff forecasts for growth to be trimmed when updated figures were released at the Sept. 4 rate meeting, while inflation forecasts were likely to be revised up. In June, ECB staff forecast growth of 1.5-2.1 percent in 2008 and 1.0-2.0 percent in 2009. Inflation was seen averaging between 3.2-3.6 percent this year and 1.8-3.0 percent in 2009. Bonello said growth in 2009 would be nearer to 1 percent and inflation close to 3 percent. Although lower oil and food prices and slower growth should dampen price pressures, it was not clear by how much or how quickly. Weber said it was not even certain the euro zone inflation rate, which is currently at a record high 4 percent, would fall back below the ECB's 2 percent ceiling in 2010. Weber and Bonello both expressed concern at a rise in long-term inflation expectations, after the ECB's survey of professional forecasters showed experts raised their long-term inflation expectations to the highest in at least a decade [ID:nLE171331]. Weber expressed concern that the majority of market watchers expected inflation to remain above 2 percent even six to 10 years out, and said this put the ECB's credibility on the line. 'For a central bank this puts in question its credibility and this can't be tolerated,' he said. 
