 THE Reserve Bank yesterday increased the pressure on the nation's banks to pass on in full any cut in official interest rates, saying they had no excuse to profiteer at the expense of customers.But the Commonwealth Bank, Australia's biggest home lender, and rival ANZ continued to defy calls to guarantee customers would get the full benefit of Reserve Bank rate cuts expected to start as early as next month. Unveiling a record $4.8billion annual profit, Commonwealth chief executive Ralph Norris said the effects of the world financial crisis were still ricocheting through the bank, raising its own costs. The nation's lenders have in the past year lifted interest rates faster than the Reserve Bank, taking the standard variable mortgage rate close to 10 per cent, as the fallout from the sub-prime crisis in the US raised their own cost of borrowing funds. Mr Norris said the RBA's target cash rate, currently at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent, was only one ingredient in the bank's average cost of funding, which continued to increase despite pressures easing in international debt markets over the past two weeks. 'What we're saying is we'll do our best to pass as much (of any rate cut) as we can,' hesaid. His comments were echoed by ANZ chief executive Mike Smith. 'The new reality is that movements in cash rates set by central banks are no longer a reasonable guide to the cost of bank funding,' he said. But RBA assistant governor Philip Lowe said yesterday the financial position of the banks had changed sharply in the past two weeks, with the bank-bill rate, which governs short-term funding costs, coming down by 0.5percentage points. 'That means there is no reason for the banks not to pass through any change from the cash rate,' he said. Kevin Rudd yesterday bought into the argument, saying the Commonwealth's extraordinary profitability gave it an obligation to pass official rate cuts to customers. 'If you are a bank generating significant profits, and the commercial banks have been generating significant profits in recent years, I would say that those banks owe it to working families, working Australians who are under financial pressure at the moment, that when official interest rates move that those moves should be passed on to consumers,' said the Prime Minister. Opposition Treasury spokesman Malcolm Turnbull said the Coalition expected Australian banks to 'pass on in full reductions in official interest rates as and when they occur'. Asked if he would consider the Prime Minister's advice on rates, Mr Norris said the Commonwealth would do what it thought was in the best interests of customers and shareholders. 'We will assess it at the time of any rate cut,' he told The Australian. The Reserve Bank is expected to reverse its campaign of rate rises at its next board meeting in three weeks, cutting its official interest rate to 7 per cent. Neither the Government nor the regulators have the power to coerce the banks to give their customers the benefit of lower funding costs. Wayne Swan has warned the banks that the Government would consider further changes to competition regulation if they failed to lower mortgage rates in line with the Reserve Bank's rates. The Reserve Bank, Treasury and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, the banking regulator, are today scheduled to testify before a parliamentary inquiry on bank competition. All are likely to say that bank competition is working well, despite the fact that mortgages have risen by an average of 1.55percentage points over the past year, while the official rate has risen by 1 percentage point. They accept that the financial crisis has pushed rates higher, with Dr Lowe yesterday saying the financial crisis had added 0.35percentage points to the banks' short-term and 0.9 percentage points to their medium-term funding costs. Dr Lowe and RBA deputy governor Ric Battelino are expected to argue the exit of home lenders such as RAMS and Macquarie Bank reflects a cyclical downturn, and higher lending standards - low-documentation and low-deposit home loans are now harder to get - are welcome. Treasury is expected to point out that 140 providers remain in the home loan market, selling more than 2400 different mortgage products. However, the shared official view will change if the banks do not pass official interest rate cuts on to customers. The Reserve believes that, although long-term interest rates remain high, the fall in short-term funding costs has cut the banks' average funding costs. It also argues that the interest paid on bank deposits will come down with cuts in official rates. Mr Norris said the bank's average costs were continuing to rise as customers rolled over term deposits at higher rates and the bank refinanced its debt in wholesale markets, again at significantly higher costs. Far from gouging profits on home-lending, CBA had taken a 'haircut' on its profit margins. While home-lending volumes expanded by 15 per cent in the 2007-08 financial year, profit margins fell by 16 basis points, leading to a 5 per cent revenue decline from the residential mortgage book. Mr Smith said that, although the cost of new funding was falling with lower bank-bill rates, average costs were still rising. 'As older, less expensive funding is maturing and being replaced with new, more expensive funding, the average cost of funds - the money that banks have borrowed on domestic and international markets to lend their customers - is increasing,' he said. The Reserve Bank is less likely to be panicked into steep rate cuts following a recovery in consumer confidence last month. The Westpac Melbourne Institute consumer confidence index rose 9 per cent from 16-year lows. Figures on wages released yesterday show a larger than expected 1.2 per cent rise in the June quarter. However, economists said the increase was not enough to stop the Reserve Bank from lowering rates. Additional reporting: Katherine Jimenez 
