 The dollar index (DXY:DXYNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst Create alertInsiderDiscussFinancials Sponsored by:, , ) , a measure of the greenback against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, was at 75.780., sharply up from 74.567 in late North American trading Thursday. Crude-oil futures fell more than 3% Friday. Oil is priced in dollars, so a sell-off in one usually inversely prompts a rise in the other.  Cheaper oil improved sentiment on Wall Street, which further underpinned the U.S. unit. All three major indexes were high in morning trading.  Labor Department data showed U.S. firms cut back their employees' working hours in the second quarter, keeping productivity growth relatively high. Productivity in the nonfarm business sector rose a 2.2% annualized rate in the second quarter, a bit slower than the 2.7% rate that economists surveyed by MarketWatch had been looking for, but economists were cheered by the yearly rate.  'U.S. nonfarm business productivity rose a slightly less-than-expected 2.2% annualized in Q2, but the yearly rate of 2.8% remains historically high and double the rate of last year,' wrote Sal Guatieri, economist at BMO Capital Markets, in a note to clients. The euro was at $1.5035 in recent trade, down from $1.5320 in late North American trading Thursday. Earlier, it fell to a session low of $1.5004. The dollar rose to 110.12 Japanese yen, up from 109.43 late Thursday. The dollar traded at 1.0808 Swiss francs, up sharply from 1.0624 francs Thursday. The British pound tumbled against the dollar to $1.9162, down from $1.9434. Pressure on euro The euro, already under pressure following ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet's monthly news conference on Thursday, sharply extended losses in Asian trade and in European dealings to touch levels not seen against the dollar since late February. The euro crashed through 'big support levels in a short period of time,' said Kenneth Broux, an economist at Lloyds TSB. 'A lot of participants were caught out and forced to liquidate' long euro positions. Some analysts interpreted Trichet's remarks as signaling a new emphasis on growth worries, although he continued to emphasize upside risks to inflation and was quick to note that the central bank had previously warned that euro-zone growth was set to slow significantly in the second and third quarters.  Trichet 'did seem a bit more concerned [about the growth outlook] than previously. Thus market participants virtually erased all expectations of rate hikes in the euro zone and are now speculating that the ECB will start cutting rates during the summer of 2009,' said economists at Jyske Bank, adding that they thought the move in the wake of the ECB statement was 'a bit overdone.' A run of almost unremittingly bleak economic data in recent weeks has seen traders turn their focus to prospects for a sharp euro-zone slowdown and possible recession. Most recently, Italy's gross domestic product contracted by 0.3% in the second quarter after 0.5% first-quarter growth, Italy's statistics office Istat reported Friday. It was flat on a year-on-year basis, the weakest since a 0.1% year-on-year fall in the third quarter of 2003, Dow Jones Newswires reported. Economists had forecast that the euro-zone's third largest economy would register a flat reading on the quarter as well as a 0.3% annual rise Broux said better-than-expected U.S. pending home sales data Thursday and, in particular, the Chinese government's recent imposition of new currency controls were likely among the catalysts for the dollar's broad surge in Asian trading. The rules, released Wednesday by China's cabinet the State Council, strengthened the regulators' authority to monitor both current and capital accounts. The changes also eased approving procedures of outflow investments.  Currency strategists at Commerzbank also downplayed the ECB's role, saying the moves during Asian hours were clearly a reflection of broad 'dollar strength,' rather than euro weakness. 'Obviously many market participants are currently re-positioning their currency allocations and [betting] on an end of the prolonged sideways movement,' they wrote. The Chinese measures may be among the triggers they said, leaving investors who had bet on high-yielding currencies or continued gains by China's yuan currency with few alternatives other than the dollar. That backdrop also underpins the Japanese yen, they said, as traders abandon carry trades in which they borrow low-yielding currencies then use the funds to buy assets denominated in higher-yielding currencies. Overnight action saw Japanese exporters eager to sell the dollar at just below 110 yen, limiting the greenback's upside against the currency, they said. Meanwhile, expectations already poor British housing data will worsen in August amid uncertainty over the government's handling of 'stamp duty' -- a tax on real-estate transactions -- is adding pressure to the British pound, said strategists at BNP Paribas.  is a reporter for MarketWatch in London.Lisa Twaronite reports for MarketWatch from San Francisco.SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) - A sell-off in crude oil futures, surging stocks and data showing a rise in U.S. productivity further fueled a dollar rally already in progress Friday. 
