 U.S. stock futures are moderately lower ahead of the open, indicative of a potentially negative start to the regular session of trading. In overseas trading, Japanese shares broke a 4-session losing streak, while markets in London were closed for holiday. In focus this morning is a ratings warning for American International Group (AIG), rumors regarding the potential ousting of Lehman Brothers' (LEH) chief executive, and merger-and-acquisition news for Broadcom (BRCM) and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). Turning to currencies and commodities, the U.S. Dollar Index is hovering around breakeven in pre-market activity, dawdling near 76.82. Meanwhile, gold for December delivery has lost about $5.20, trading around $828.30 an ounce. Elsewhere, after marking its biggest percentage drop in 4 years on Friday, crude-oil prices are flirting with the $115.50-per-barrel marker ahead of the bell. Making headlines this morning was American International Group (AIG: sentiment, chart, options) , with Fitch Ratings warning that it could downgrade the insurance giant's ratings. More specifically, Fitch noted uncertainty about AIG's business-unit review, as well as additional losses on its residential mortgage-backed securities-related exposures. Elsewhere, a top regulator this morning voiced concern regarding Korea Development Bank's interest in purchasing financial firm Lehman Brothers (LEH: sentiment, chart, options) . The regulator opined that 'it appears burdensome for a state-run institution to play a leading role' in the purchase of a foreign company, commenting that KDB should play a 'cheerleader role' instead. Meanwhile, U.K. newspaper The Observer reported that Richard Fuld, Lehman's chief executive, is facing an internal campaign to oust him by the end of the year.In other merger-and-acquisition news, Broadcom (BRCM: sentiment, chart, options) will pay around $192.8 million in cash to acquire chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices' (AMD: sentiment, chart, options) digital TV business. The acquisition will form the core of Broadcom's DTV business. AMD CEO Dirk Meyer said the sale is a 'key step in AMD's transformation, helping to strengthen our balance sheet, lower our breakeven point, and hone our focus in order to take full advantage of our position as a leader in both microprocessors and graphics technology.' The deal is expected to close during the fourth quarter. Earnings PreviewCompanies expected to step into the earnings confessional today include: A-Power Energy (APWR) and Thornburg Mortgage (TMA), amongst others. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.com throughout the day for more. Economic CalendarThe economic calendar starts the week off light with only July's existing home sales data on tap. Meanwhile, Tuesday will feature new home sales figures, the latest consumer confidence report, and the Federal Open Market Committee meeting minutes. Headlining the economic calendar on Wednesday is the usual crude inventories report, as well as the latest month's durable goods data. On Thursday, the Street will be graced with the preliminary Gross Domestic Product (GDP) figures, while Friday rounds out the week with July's personal income and spending data, as well as the latest Chicago Purchasing Managers Index (PMI).Market StatisticsEquity option activity on the CBOE saw 966,554 call contracts traded on Friday, compared to 577,525 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio fell to 0.60, while the 21-day moving average slipped to 0.71. **The volume data shown above is from the Nasdaq and NYSE exchanges only. It does not include regional volume activity, which means that other daily volume quotes you see may be higher.** Overseas TradingOverseas trading is mixed this morning, with 7 of the 11 foreign indices that we track in positive territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a gain of 0.58%. In Japan, stocks snapped a 4-session losing streak, as investors 
