 Crude oil prices headed for their biggest weekly increase in more than two months on Friday after rising almost 5 percent a day earlier as the dollar slumped, prompting investors to buy commodities.The moves amounted to a sharp reversal of recent trends in the commodity and currency markets, but analysts cautioned against reading too much into them. The dollar had climbed to a six-month high against the euro, while oil prices had tumbled nearly 18 percent since reaching a record high on July 11.But investors are facing a host of economic troubles, including concern about international political tensions, troubles at the U.S. mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and bleak reports on the prospects of Wall Street banks.Crude oil for October delivery was at $121.67 a barrel during Asian business hours in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. On Thursday, the contract surged $5.62, or 4.9 percent, to settle at $121.18 a barrel, the biggest increase since June 6. 'Gains were pretty broad-based across the commodity space,' said Gerard Burg, an energy and minerals economist with National Australia Bank in Melbourne. 'The U.S. dollar fell, which magnified the upward trend. It's a big move, but we've seen this level of volatility, and it's once again a symptom of how tight the market remains at this time.' Some analysts pinned the increase in oil prices on the dollar, which fell against a broad range of currencies. Commodities like oil are priced in dollars, and are commonly used as a hedge against moves in the currency market. That means that oil prices rise when the dollar falls, and vice versa.An increase in tensions between Russia and the United States may also have played a role. U.S. officials announced a deal Wednesday to build a missile defense base in Poland, leading some traders to worry that Russia could respond by disrupting the flow of oil in Eastern Europe. 'The world seems to have awoken to the rise in geopolitical tensions and the risk in the last few days,' said Jeffrey Nichols, managing director at American Precious Metals Advisors.But other oil analysts were unconvinced. 'Poland? Give me a break,' said Fadel Gheit, who tracks the oil industry for Oppenheimer. 'This is a knee-jerk financial reaction to a sharply lower dollar. People say, 'Where do I hide my money today?' You buy gold, and you buy oil.' The euro traded at $1.4866 in Asia. It rose 1 percent Thursday and touched $1.4903, the strongest level in a week and the biggest rise since June.Among the tensions that are perhaps affecting the price of oil, Russia has defied calls by President George W. Bush and other Western leaders for an immediate withdrawal from Georgia since a cease-fire agreement last week ended five days of fighting.The Baku-Supsa pipeline, which pumps more than 100,000 barrels of oil a day from Azerbaijan to the Georgian port of Supsa on the Black Sea coast, is still shut on security concerns following fighting between Georgian and Russian troops.Railway transportation to Georgia's Black Sea ports has also been suspended because of a damaged bridge.The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which transports oil from Azerbaijan through Georgia to Turkey's Mediterranean coast, will be fully operational this week and tanker loading will resume next week, officials said. The pipeline has a capacity of 1 million barrels a day. 'There's been no or very little oil coming out of there, and that shortage has been eclipsing the amount of oil that Saudi Arabia and OPEC has been adding to the market,' said Jonathan Kornafel, a director for Asia at Hudson Capital Energy in Singapore. 'Now that it's more than just what's happening in the Caucasus and Russia may shut off the pipes a little bit, the world seems to be paying more attention.' Crude oil may rise next week because of a weakening dollar, tension between the United States and Russia and falling gasoline stockpiles. Sixteen of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News said prices would increase through Friday.
