 credit crisis worries again hit sentiment and together with poor housing data and fears about the insurance giant AIG - American International Group - sent shares sliding.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 241.73 points, or 2.1%, to 11386.33, ending a three-day winning streak. All 30 Dow components closed down, led by a 5.5% drop in AIG shares. Fears that credit rating agency Fitch would result in a downgrade of AIG grew after a forecast by Credit Suisse that AIG would report a third-quarter loss.The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2% at 2365.59 and the S&amp;amp;P 500 dropped 2%.Finfacts Report: US existing-home sales rose in July from a 10-year low as falling prices helped stabilise demand and the number of homes for sale jumped to a recordCrude-oil futures rose 52 cents, or 0.5%, to $115.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The price has fallen 21% from its record close on July 3rd but is 20% higher for the year to date.Finfacts Report: International Monetary Fund cuts its forecasts for 2008 and 2009 world economic growthIn Asia-Pacific, stocks fell Monday with the Nikkei 225 Index falling 0.78%.China's CSI 300 Index dropped 2.78% and India's BSE Sensex 30 Index declined 0.31%.Asia-Pacific - benchmarks.All open Western European markets are down in early trading Tuesday.In Dublin, the ISEQ Index is down 0.48%.CRH fell 2.65% and Kerry is off 0.99% after today's half-year interim reports (see below).Finfacts Report: European Central Bank lending to Irish financial institutions was 44.1 billion in July - the highest since the credit crisis beganFinfacts Reports:Europe -benchmarksIrish Share PricesEuribor RatesAIB Daily ReportRossa White, economist at Davy commented today that the third quarter will tell a lot more about where euro area is headed: 'The breakdown of German GDP data this morning confirmed what a bleak quarter it was, driven by lower investment and consumer spending. But the data are not as bad as they look, having followed the exceptional bounce in GDP in Q1. The real trend will only be illuminated in the July-September period. So far, indications are not great. For Ireland, at least, that means badly needed rate cuts are closer to hand.Construction and consumer spending both declined. The consumer spending figures (-0.7% quarter-on-quarter) are more instructive: construction is skewed by the powerful weather-related surge in Q1. They suggest that German households do not believe that the labour market improvement of the last couple of years is sustainable.Due to exceptional circumstances, it is almost impossible to get a true guide to trend by looking at the Q2 figures, or even taking Q1 and Q2 together. More recent high-frequency data provide a better clue. Surveys (PMI, IFO) weakened markedly in June and July and spending figures have deteriorated further. The labour market is beginning to take a turn for the worse. Looking ahead, demand will soften further in key export markets and the full brunt of past euro appreciation is finally staring to impact. Recession may be avoided in H2, but not by much. We still expect rate cuts early in 2009.'CurrenciesThe euro is trading at $1.4672 and at 0.7968.For live currency updates, check the right-hand column of the Finfacts home page.The US dollar fell to $1.6038 per euro on Tuesday, July 15, 2008 - an-all time record.CommoditiesCrude oil for October delivery is currently trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange (Nymex) at $115.11 per barrel up 1 cent from Monday's close.  In London, Brent for October delivery is trading on the International Commodities Exchange at $114.07 up 4 cents.Gold spot priceGold is trading at $818.70 in New York down $2.70s from Monday's close.Mark O'Byrne, Director of Gold Investments UK and Ireland, commented on Monday: 'Physical demand remains very robust in the US, India, the Middle East and Asia. Reuters reports that dealers in Singapore and Hong Kong are also experiencing tight supply for gold bars. The large international refiner, Johnson Matthey has recently had an 8-10 week delay for 100 ounce silver bars and now they are no longer taking orders.Clearly, this is about a lot more than blanks for coins and this is very important and should not be downplayed and underestimated.Gold and Silver Investments Limited cannot buy or source American Eagles (1 ozt) from some of the largest wholesaler dealers in the US (we also cannot source Krugerrands (1ozt) from some of the largest wholesaler dealers in the US for the first time ever). These large wholesalers are supplied coins by the government mints and bars by refineries. These are not recent strikes or 2008 freshly minted coins rather we cannot source any year of these coins which have been minted for years (Krugerrands since 1967 and Eagles since 1986). A lack of blanks can only affect coins that are being minted now in 2008.They also receive inventories when they make a market and buy back bullion from retailers. However, there has been minimal selling in recent weeks and months and very significant buying. Besides problems regarding bullion coins, there are issues securing silver bars (1 , 10 and 100 ozt) from wholesalers who are finding to difficult to secure adequate supply from refiners. While it should be acknowledged that there are blank issues with regard to some bullion coins especially the Silver Eagles and Silver Maples (1 ozt), this is clearly more to do with an unprecedented level of demand and a lack of supply rather than a lack of blanks.The bottom line is that this lack of supply and huge demand will result in materially higher prices in the coming weeks - otherwise these supply/demand issues will become even sharper and the lack of availability of certain smaller bullion products will likely spread to other bullion products and may 'move up the value chain' and affect the larger bar market as well.' Copyright 2007 by Finfacts.com
