 LONDON (Reuters) - The blue-chip index fell for the third session in a row to end over 2 percent lower on Tuesday as credit fears and U.S. data dragged financials lower, while a sprinkling of bid activity kept a few stocks afloat.The FTSE 100  shed 129.8 points, or 2.4 percent, to 5,320.4 -- its largest one-day fall in over a month. The benchmark index is down 17 percent for the year to date.Across the Atlantic, U.S. stocks lost over 1 percent to extend sharp declines overnight, after Barron's said the government may have no choice but to nationalise Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac . This could wipe out existing holders of the two companies' common stock and result in losses for other asset holders.Former International Monetary Fund chief economist Kenneth Rogoff said the worst of the global financial crisis is yet to come and a large U.S. bank would fail in the next few months as the world's biggest economy hits further troubles.UK banks accounted for over 47 negative index points, with Barclays , Royal Bank of Scotland , HSBC , HBOS , Lloyds TSB  and Standard Chartered  down 4.3 to 7.4 percent.'A lot of people have thought over the course of last few weeks that much of the bad news regarding markets is out in the public domain. That clearly is not the case,' said Peter Dixon, UK economist at Commerzbank.'We saw the comments from Rogoff, suggesting that a major U.S. bank could well go under. That just reawakens investors to the idea that we are by no means over the worst of the crisis.'Insurers were hurt by the knock-on effect, with Standard Life , Old Mutual , Prudential , Aviva  and Legal &amp;amp; General  losing between 6.1 and 7 percent.Adding to the negative sentiment, the U.S. government's Producer Price Index shot up at the fastest annual rate in 27 years, while core producer prices, excluding volatile food and energy, notched up their fastest rise since November 2006.'Grabbing the headlines today is the scorching hot PPI numbers,' said David Evans, market analyst at BetOnMarkets.com. 'This figure should cool in the short term as commodities have come off the boil of late, especially oil, but the medium term outlook looks very bleak.'Builders and real-estate companies dragged the FTSE 100deeper into the red, as data pointed to the slowest start rate in U.S. home building in more than 17 years.Wolseley , Hammerson , Taylor Wimpey  and Barratt Developments  slipped 6.6-9.6 percent.'Fear has gripped traders by the throat once more and traders have been quick to dump banking and insurance stocks and this has all but strangled every last iota of positive sentiment out of the markets,' said Ryan Kneale, market analyst at BetsForTraders.com.BID UPMerger and acquisition activity helped lift a few UK stocks. Bid speculation on U.S. orthopaedic device maker Zimmer Holdings  lifted Smith &amp;amp; Nephew  2.2 percent to top the FTSE 100 gainers, traders said.Shares in British power supplier Scottish &amp;amp; Southern Energy  rose as much as 3.6 percent, and ended 1 percent higher, as traders cited market talk of a possible bid.One trader said there was renewed speculation of a bid from Vattenfall AB , at 1,775 pence per share. Both Scottish &amp;amp; Southern Energy and Vattenfall declined to comment.In other individual stocks, gas producer BG Group  lost 0.5 percent as Australia's Origin Energy  reiterated that its shareholders should reject the British firm's $11.9 billion hostile takeover bid.Heavyweight Vodafone  slipped 2.5 percent after the Financial Times said the mobile phone giant is to increase its minimum British call charges from September by at least 25 percent and by as much as 50 percent for some customers.(Additional reporting by Dominic Lau; Editing by Erica Billingham)
