 WELLINGTON, Aug 18 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar  pushed up to 10-day highs on Monday as investors consolidated positions after selling the currency over the past few weeks on views interest rates will continue to fall. While traders remain convinced that the kiwi will lose its yield appeal as rates fall, the lack of significant economic data prompted bargain hunting after the sell-off, which sent the currency to a one-year low last week. 'A period of consolidation lies ahead for the New Zealand dollar following the big moves of the past couple of weeks,' analysts at ANZ-National Bank said in a note to clients. 'With the Australian dollar looking very oversold, the kiwi could get dragged up, although the overall trend remains down.' At 0450 GMT, the New Zealand dollar was at $0.7085/09, up over one cent from late local trade on Friday. It had hit a one-year trough of $0.6824  on Wednesday, 8 percent below its levels in late July. The Aussie  also crawled up against the U.S. dollar, pushing further away from a seven-month low struck last week, and technical indicators suggested it was still oversold and a further rebound was likely. The kiwi held near two-month peaks against the Aussie  and one-month highs versus the euro . Traders said investors had also become wary of selling the New Zealand dollar on a view that the latest weakness in the currency might make the Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) cautious about cutting the cash rate further because it would add to already-high inflation pressures. The central bank lowered interest rates to 8 percent on July 24, and said it was likely to cut them further unless the currency depreciates excessively. No major local data is due until the RBNZ's next policy review on Sept. 11 when it is expected to lower rates to 7.75 percent. For this week, producer prices and capital goods prices for the June quarter are due on Tuesday, and electronic cards transaction and credit card billings for July will be released on Thursday. New Zealand bonds were little changed, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond  unchanged at 6.19 percent. (Reporting by Kazunori Takada).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
