 United States -  * Oil up on larger-than-expected drawdown on stocks* Conflict between Georgia and Russia lends some support* Tight credit issues may limit sharp price risesSINGAPORE, Aug 14 (Reuters) - Oil rose nearly $1 and moved closer to $117 a barrel on Thursday, extending gains of $3 in the previous session, as a larger-than-expected drawdown in crude and gasoline stocks in the United States rekindled supply concerns.However, a tight credit market in the U.S. could limit a sharp rise in prices, analysts said.U.S. crude was up by 91 cents to $116.91 a barrel at 0219 GMT, after the country's crude stocks dropped 400,000 barrels, while gasoline inventories fell by 6.4 million barrels in the week to Aug. 8 as refinery throughput decreased, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said.The fall in gasoline stocks was beyond analysts' expectations of a 2.1-million-barrel declineDistillates stocks also unexpectedly decreased, and the drawdown came after companies shut U.S. Gulf Coast facilities due to Tropical Storm Edouard.The conflict between Russia and the U.S. over Georgia also supported prices.Georgia had accused Russia of breaking a cease-fire in their six-day-old conflict on Wednesday, and U.S. President George W. Bush demanded Moscow resolve a crisis that has strained relations with the United States.Russia, on the other hand, accused the U.S. of playing a dangerous game in the Caucasus by backing Georgia and denied Moscow was not doing enough to prevent looting.However, oil is still far away from this year's peak at more than $147 a barrel it hit in mid-July, and analysts said it's unlikely the market could move anywhere close to that level soon.'There are not that many factors that can drive prices higher,' said Gerard Burg, a commodities analyst at National Australia Bank (nyse: NAB -  news  -  people ) in Melbourne.'The conflict in Georgia does not have that much impact. The pipeline was already offline,' he added.BP (nyse: BP -  news  -  people ) has already closed an oil pipeline and a natural gas pipeline running from its Caspian Sea fields through Georgia but said neither had been damaged.A third BP pipeline that runs through Georgia, the Baku-Tblisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, was shut last week following an explosion in Turkey.Overall, consumer spending in the U.S. is still weak amid tight credits issues, and high energy prices have forced consumers to drive less.The U.S. Transportation Department said on Wednesday that Americans drove 12.2 billion miles, or 4.7 percent, less in June compared with a year earlier. It was the eighth month in a row driving declinedEyes are now on OPEC, to see if it would cut back on oil supplies.Iran's OPEC governor Muhammad Ali Khatibi said on Tuesday that the organisation should trim its oil output if demand continues to fall in slowing industrialised economies.Khatibi said Iran is pumping around 4 million barrels per day of total capacity of around 4.3 million bpd. Iran's informal OPEC target is 3.817 million bpd, although Khatibi said Tehran had never agreed with OPEC's calculation of that target.Iran believed it was entitled to produce around 100,000 bpd more than that target, Khatibi said.The U.S. dollar rose on Wednesday for a ninth consecutive session against a basket of currencies, by 0.2 percent to 76.278 (Editing by Sambit Mohanty)Copyright 2008 Reuters, Click for RestrictionCompanies: NAB   BP'); //--&gt; News Headlines   More From Forbes.com   Special ReportsRelated Business TopicsStarting A Small BusinessSmall Business LoansTrading CenterBrought to you by the sponsors belowCEO Book ClubBook ExcerptsBook ReviewDavid K. RandallComedian Michael Ian Black's debut book contains a few comedic gems.
