 * 100 index down 29.9 points to 5,341.9 LONDON: Britain's FTSE 100 fell 0.6 percent on Thursday as renewed credit jitters hit banking stocks, though miners buoyed by firmer metal prices offered some support. By 1027 GMT, the UK benchmark was down 29.9 points at 5,341.9, after rising one percent on Wednesday to snap a three-session losing run. Banks took nearly 20 points off the index on renewed credit jitters. Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, HSBC, HBOS, Lloyds TSB and Standard Chartered shed between 1.3 and 3 percent. Retailers, however, remained in the red but had pared earlier losses, with Marks &amp;amp; Spencer losing three percent, Next off 0.4 percent and Sainsbury dipping 0.8 percent. Associated British Foods was down two percent after Citigroup cut its price target on the stock and kept its 'sell' rating. Mining shares rose on firmer metal prices and after Eurasian Natural Resources posted a 160 percent jump in half-year earnings per share on strong metal prices and higher output. ENRC shares gained 2.8 percent, while BHP Billiton, Xstrata, Rio Tinto, Anglo American and Kazakhmys added between 0.8 and 2.5 percent. Mid-cap Imperial Energy advanced nearly five percent after India's Business Standard said a government panel has approved India's state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corp's $3 billion bid to buy the Russia-focused oil firm. Reed Elsevier added 1.3 percent after German publishing house Gruner + Jahr said it was part of a second round of bidders interested in buying the Anglo-Dutch publisher's trade magazines unit. Gruner + Jahr is owned by media group Bertelsmann. Mid-cap housebuilder Persimmon leapt more than 12 percent on short covering after its first-half results were not as bad as some had expected, traders said. The company reported a 64 percent fall in first-half pretax profit and cut its dividend to 5 pence per share from 18.5 pence, due to very difficult market conditions. Within the sector, Taylor Wimpey soared 4.9 percent and Barratt Developments climbed 7.3 percent. reuters
