 Reuters in London Gold prices plummeted to eight-month lows yesterday as the dollar's rally triggered a massive sell-off, hitting oil and industrial metals as well. Spot gold touched $801.90 an ounce, its lowest level since late December, and was at $813.50 by deadline, compared with its $819.25/820.85 price late in New York on Monday. The precious metal is down more than 20% since hitting a record high of $1 030.80/ounce on March 17. 'The speed and severity of the dollar's run higher has resulted in some long liquidation,' said Daniel Hynes, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. 'At the moment it is hard to see an end to it, but we still have some supportive factors, such as inflation, geopolitical tensions and falling mine supply.' Prices of the metal attempted a recovery earlier yesterday after the dollar slipped on profit-taking. However, the dollar was still hovering near a six-month high against a basket of major currencies as investors looked beyond US growth worries to a slowing global economy. A stronger US unit makes commodities priced in dollars more expensive for holders of other currencies. Sentiment Brent oil hit $110.50 a barrel, its lowest since early May, as the market focused on events in currency markets and the International Energy Agency predicted higher supplies. 'It looks like sentiment towards gold has turned negative, we're seeing long liquidation on the back of both dollar movement and the oil price movement,' said Suki Cooper, analyst at Barclays Capital. The higher dollar and tumbling oil subdued activity in soft and agricultural commodities. Benchmark copper on the London Metal Exchange hit a six-month low of $7 207/ton as escalating worries about global economic and demand growth prompted investors to accelerate their retreat. The metal used in power and construction has tumbled about 18% since a contract high of $8 940 a ton on July 2. Also under heavy selling pressure was industrial metal platinum, used to make autocatalysts. Investors have been selling their holdings on concern about falling demand from car makers. The bulk of the world's platinum is used by automakers in autocatalyst systems that scrub exhaust fumes of dangerous and environmentally damaging chemicals. Spot platinum fell to $1 462.50 an ounce, the lowest since the middle of December, and was last at $1 469.
