 AN early interest rate cut might be needed to ward off a deeper economic slowdown, with scope for a less restrictive monetary policy increasing, the minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) August board meeting say.The RBA left official interest rates on hold at 7.25 per cent on August 5 for the fifth month in a row. But the minutes of that board meeting, released today, indicate the central bank saw the case for a near-term rate cut. 'Indeed, less restrictive conditions could soon be called for, otherwise the risk of a deeper and more persistent slowing in the economy would increase,'' the minutes said. 'On these considerations, a case could be made for an early reduction in the cash rate. 'Weighing up all considerations, members judged that the current stance of policy was appropriate for the time being. 'Nonetheless, given the slower trend in demand, scope to move towards a less restrictive setting of monetary policy was judged to be increasing.'' The minutes said the RBA was concerned about the effect of tight financial conditions. 'Members were conscious that financial conditions were clearly quite tight, and effectively getting tighter as a result of ongoing pressure on lenders' costs of funds in the market,'' the minutes said. 'Given there had been a significant change in borrowing behaviour, confidence was weaker, asset prices had declined and slower overall growth was in prospect, tighter financial conditions were not warranted.'' But the RBA was still concerned about wage inflation, even though it had not yet seen evidence of this. 'Firstly, a lengthy period of inflation above the target was occurring, with attendant risk that this would begin to affect wage setting, though there was no evidence of this in aggregate wages data to date,'' the minutes said. 'If that occurred, the cost of reducing inflation later would be greater. 'Policy had to take account of this risk, particularly given both the recent high CPI reading and those in prospect in the near term. 'This argued for maintaining the current stance of policy.'' Consumer price index (CPI) inflation in the year to June surged by 4.5 per cent, a level well above the central bank's two to three per cent target band. Still, the RBA expected inflation to moderate in 2009 and 2010. 'The staff forecast for growth had been revised down slightly, while that for inflation was slightly higher in the near term but still saw inflation starting to fall back towards the target during 2009 and 2010,'' the minutes said. Inflation in the near-term was still expected to remain high but the RBA expected softer economic growth in the year ahead. 'The staff forecast for growth of the Australian economy over the year ahead had been lowered slightly and remained below consensus,'' the minutes said. 'It was likely that the headline rate of inflation would rise further in the immediate future, but the softer demand outlook meant that inflation was still forecast to decline during 2009 and to be consistent with the target during 2010. 'Clear evidence of that decline beginning, however, was unlikely to be seen for a while yet.'' The RBA minutes predicted that June quarter gross domestic product (GDP) growth would be low, with weak growth in the September quarter also possible. 'The national accounts for the June quarter, to be published in early September, were likely to show that growth of GDP had been low, and the staff forecasts suggested that a weak outcome in the September quarter was also possible,'' the minutes said. The RBA minutes suggested once again that there was uncertainty surrounding the outlook for demand and inflation. 'Members continued to see considerable uncertainty about the outlook for demand and inflation, as the economy remained subject to powerful forces pulling in opposite directions,'' the minutes said. 'Tighter financial conditions were causing the economy to slow but, on the other hand, the rise in the terms of trade would continue to add substantially to national income and capacity to spend.'' The RBA said consumption spending had weakened considerably in 2008. 'They observed that consumption spending had weakened considerably in 2008, with retail sales being essentially flat in value terms over the first half of the year,'' the minutes said. 
