 retreating from the last session's strong gains, as oil remained above $114 a barrel and as concerns about the financial sector continued to weigh on investor sentiment. 'Financial stresses are still permeating global financial systems, despite massive accommodation from the Fed,' said analysts at Action Economics. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI) was recently down 143.54 points to 11, 484.52, near its session lows. All but two of the Dow's 30 components posted early declines, led by insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG), down 5.8% after Credit Suisse analysts lowered their third-quarter profit estimate and target price on the insurance giant. The S&amp;amp;P 500 (SPX) was off 16.15 points to 1,276.05, with all of the index's 10 industry groups tallying losses, paced by the consumer discretionary and financial sectors, both down nearly 2%. Among the hardest hit, shares of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) lost 7%. Shares of Fannie Mae (FNM) and Freddie Mac (FRE) both gained, with the latter recently up 12.5%, amid ongoing speculation that a government bailout of both could be unavoidable. . The Nasdaq Composite (RIXF) declined 39.42 points to 2,375.29. Trading volume was light, topping 248 million on the New York Stock Exchange, where declining issues overtook those advancing more than 3 to 1. On the Nasdaq, 189 million shares exchanged hands, and advancers topped decliners nearly 4 to 1. Still for sale Down from the session's start, stock indexes retained their losses after the National Association of Realtors reported existing-home sales rose in July, but inventories also increased, hitting record levels. On Friday, stocks rallied, with the Dow striking its largest one-day gain in two weeks, after oil fell more than $6 a barrel, its greatest percentage decline in more than four years. In Monday trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude-oil futures were lately off 24 cents at $114.35 a barrel. . In corporate developments, Canadian energy-services provider Precision Drilling Trust plans to buy Grey Wolf Inc. (GW) for an estimated $1.12 billion in cash and 42 million shares of its stock. .
