 SYDNEY, Aug 29 (Reuters) - Australians' appetite for credit waned further in July with growth in mortgages at its slowest pace in 20 years, one reason the country's central bank is widely expected to cut interest rates next week. Figures from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) on Friday showed total credit rose a modest 0.5 percent in July, following a 0.4 percent increase in June. Growth for the year slowed to 11.2 percent, down from more than 16 percent in January. Finance for housing rose just 0.5 percent, the smallest monthly gain since 1989, while the annual pace of 9.8 percent was the slowest since 1987. 'The data highlights the significant tightening in financial conditions and the reduced willingness of households and businesses to consume, invest and employ,' said Scott Haslem, chief economist at UBS. That reinforced market expectations for a cut in interest rates when the RBA holds its monthly policy meeting on Sept 2. The vast majority of analysts look for the key cash rate to be cut by 25 basis points to 7.0 percent, the first easing in seven years. Su-Lin Ong, a senior economist at RBC Capital Markets, noted that the RBA had never made a secret of its desire to see credit growth slow from the red-hot pace of last year. 'But the sharp decline in lending hints at credit rationing,' she said. 'This has the potential to turn a boom into a bust rather than soft landing. 'It is this tightening in credit conditions beyond that sanctioned by the RBA which will underpin the rationale for a likely 25 basis point cut next week with another similar move in October or November,' said Ong. GLOBAL SQUEEZE The global credit squeeze has sharply raised the cost of funding for Australian banks, and they have been quick to pass on the cost to customers. Thus while the RBA lifted its cash rate by 100 basis points in the past year, commercial banks had raised their mortgage rates by 150 basis points. This extra tightening was a key reason that members of the central bank's board saw scope for an early easing at its August policy meeting. 'Members were conscious that financial conditions were clearly quite tight, and effectively, getting tighter,' minutes of the meeting released earlier this month showed. 'Less restrictive conditions could soon be called for, otherwise the risk of a deeper and more persistent slowing in the economy could increase.' The impact of higher mortgage rates has been clear in the housing market, where approvals to build new homes are down almost 8 percent on the year. Figures from Australia's Housing Industry Association (HIA) on Friday showed sales of new homes slid a seasonally adjusted 7.2 percent in July, extending a long run of weakness. 'What is a very weak update on sales volumes reinforces industry feedback which at the time pointed to an abrupt halt to new home enquiries and activity in early July,' said HIA's chief economist, Harley Dale. 'The imminent move to lower interest rates is a welcome first step to a much needed home building recovery,' he added. (Editing by Jonathan Standing) .ntCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
