 NATIONAL Australia Bank will pass on in full a quarter-point cut if the central bank lowers official rates by that amount next month. The promise by the  came as its bigger rival lowered its fixed-term lending rates for the second time this month. But the  could not match NABs pledge.  again entered the debate, saying all major banks should pass on to customers any reduction in official rates by the Reserve Bank. It's a victory for National Australia Bank customers who have been doing it tough after eight interest rate rises in three years, Mr Swan said. This decision by the National Australia Bank is a challenge for other banks to follow. To read an analysis by The Australian's John Durie, click on .The guarantee by NAB came after heated debate about wholesale funding costs and whether the big banks would follow a move by the Reserve Bank, which has widely signalled it was likely to cut official rates at its September 2 board meeting. Financial markets have fully priced in a 0.25 percentage point cut by the Reserve Bank next month and some analysts have said a half-point drop cannot be ruled out. The Reserve Bank has kept rates at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent for five months as it has battled inflationary pressures, but it has since shifted its main focus to the risks of a slowing economy after data and private-sector surveys suggested a sharp slowdown. A rate cut next month by the Reserve Bank, which has raised rates 12 times since May 2002, would be the first since December 2001. Financial markets have priced cuts totalling of 104 basis points over 12 months, according to Credit Suisse. NABs Australian chief executive, Ahmed Fahour, said today the banks standard variable interest rate would fall to 9.36 per cent following a central bank move. While I am pleased to make today's undertaking, our medium and long term funding and our retail deposit base represent the greatest proportion of our funding costs and the average cost of these sources of funding continues to increase, Mr Fahour said. The recent fall in short-term funding costs provides an opportunity to undertake to move rates in line with the RBA decision, but future interest rate decisions will need to reflect an assessment of all the cost of funding factors. Commonwealth Bank, which lowered it one-year fixed homeloan rate by 32 basis points to 9.03 per cent from 9.35 per cent, would not speculate on its variable rates. We will review our full costs of funding at the time of any announcement by the RBA, taking into account any reduction in the official cash rate and do our best to pass on as much as we can to our customers, the bank said. Its two-year fixed rate was reduced by 41 basis points to 8.94 per cent. Additional reporting by AAP 
