 Households are being warned of tough times ahead but Prime Minister Kevin Rudd believes the economic picture will start to improve by next year. The Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to cut official interest rates when it meets next Tuesday amid signs of a slowing economy. Economists widely believe it will cut the current cash rate of 7.25 per cent by 0.25 of a percentage point, making it the first downward movement since December 2001. New figures show that consumers appetite for credit continued to wane as they dealt with high mortgage rates and skyrocketing costs of living. Lending for housing, personal use and business rose 0.5 per cent in July, and was up 11.2 per cent in the year, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said. Demand for housing loans rose by 0.5 per cent in July and 9.8 per cent over the year - the slowest pace in 21 years, when the annual rate was 9.8 per cent in March 1987. Commsec economist Savanth Sebastian said the figures showed households were doing it tough. 'Consumers are cutting back on borrowing with no room to move,' he said. 'The latest reading on private sector credit highlights the stress on the household budget. 'Overall credit has fallen for the second consecutive month, while personal credit fell by 0.7 per cent in July matching levels noted in the 1991 recession.' The US financial crisis has hit hard around the world and it means managing the Australian economy is a big challenge, he says. 'It sits tough, really tough,' Mr Rudd told Fairfax Radio Network. 'I'd much rather be up front about that with the Australian people rather than pretending that it's any different. 'It's a big challenge. And it's been a big challenge frankly since day one.' 'We believe that into the period of 2009 you'll start to see economic growth picking up,' he told Fairfax Radio. Mr Rudd said Reserve Bank forecasts indicated economic growth should improve by the June quarter next year. 'If you go (with) the forecasts which were released by the Reserve Bank in August you see growth by the June quarter 2009 improving to two and a quarter and then by the end of next year to two and a half,' he said. 
