 THE Australian dollar was weaker at noon as it battled against surprisingly strong US economic growth data and a drop in crude oil prices.A lower than expected inflation estimate from Europe tonight is tipped to put the Australian dollar under pressure as heightened expectations for a euro zone interest rate cut buoy the US dollar. At 12noon (AEST), the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.8648/51, down from yesterday's close of $US0.8674/78. During today's session, the local currency has moved between a late-morning high of $US0.8657 and a low of $US0.8613. The Australian dollar has struggled this morning as a surprise jump in US gross domestic product (GDP) growth data for the June quarter boosted the US unit against a range of currencies. 'That GDP surprised on the upside, the market wasn't expecting that,'' Easy Forex senior dealer Francisco Solar said. 'There was some rebound in the US dollar coupled with oil dropping ... that added to the sell-off in the Aussie.'' US Commerce Department data released overnight showed US GDP grew by 3.3 per cent in the year to June, largely based on a jump in exports. This was above median market forecasts of 2.7 per cent, and a sharp upward revision of the 1.9 per cent figure reported in the first estimates last month. Crude oil prices also fell by 2.17 per cent, or $US2.56, to $US115.59 a barrel, during the New York session with local spot prices showing little signs of recovery this morning. Traders had little reaction to Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) data showing a 0.5 per cent rise in credit during July because it matched median market expectations. The Australian dollar is tipped to face selling pressure tonight, after the local session close, if the euro zone consumer price index estimate for August is lower than market forecasts of an annual 4 per cent rise. Mr Solar said the European Central Bank was becoming more worried about slowing economic growth than high inflation, which meant the euro could weaken against the US dollar going into the weekend. The Australian dollar was tipped to be capped at $US0.8680 during this afternoon, with the potential to fall below $US0.8600 tonight. 
