 Financials helped London shares to move back to levels not seen since the start of July on Thursday afternoon, with Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and HBOS all performing well after data showed better-than-expected U.S. economic growth.HBOS shares climbed 4.7%, Barclays shares rose 5% and Royal Bank of Scotland shares advanced up 4.2%. Overall, the FTSE 100 index jumped 1.3% to 5,598.50. Other European financials and shares were also performing well. See Europe Markets.The financial sector moved higher in the morning and built on those gains in the afternoon when data that showed U.S. economic growth in the second quarter was a lot stronger than previously believed. See full story.Heino Ruland at consultancy FrankfurtFinanz in Germany noted: 'It's the most battered sector. If the U.S. economy is doing better than expected then people might assume that the financial crisis is not as bad as thought.'David Buik, strategist at BCG Partners added: 'I'm extremely doubtful that the credit crisis is over but these are very low levels (for the banks). They are good trading stocks at the lower levels,' Also, shares in BT Group also helped the top index, rising 4% after Goldman Sachs upgraded the telecom to buy.'We believe management has scope to act on costs and the stock provides attractive option value over improved earnings visibility,' it said. Commodities downKazakhmys shares fell 2% after profit for the copper miner dropped to $608.4 million, from $794.2 million in the same period a year ago. Copper cathode production volumes dropped 23.8% during the first half of 2008, primarily due to reduced production levels and the relative lower quantity of cathodes in transit.Still, the company said that the second half of the year should be better in terms of production.'We had some figures from Kazakhmys which were weaker than expected. This might have put a negative slant on the commodities sector as everyone assumed they had a good year. It's raised a bit of nervousness about profit trends for the sector,' said Mark Priest, senior trader at TradIndex.Other miners trading lower included Eurasian Natural Resources , down 1.8%. Kazakhmys holds a stake in ENRC. Indian copper mining firm Vedanta resources declined 1.1%.In the utility sector, Severn Trent shares fell 1.9% and United Utilities shares lost 1.2%. Both firms were downgraded to sell from neutral at Goldman Sachs. The broker said that, after updating its model for results and draft business plans and lower assumed potential-bid premiums, it now believes both companies look overpriced relative to the sector. Bodycote, Capital &amp;amp; Regional upOutside the top index, shares in Bodycote , the Macclesfield provider of metallurgical, testing and other services, shot up 6.6%. It will sell its testing group to Clayton, Dubilier &amp;amp; Rice for 417 million pounds ($764 million), the New York private-equity firm said on Thursday.Also, shares in property investment firm Capital &amp;amp; Regional jumped 14%.Although the company's first-half pretax profit dropped 7% to 16.4 million pounds, it improved its financial position and agreed revised financial covenants with its principle lending bank.
