cuts costs  11:04am   11:01am   Herron Todd White expands WA presence  10:40am   Futuris completes sale of Amcom shares  10:32am   Stocks higher after gains in resources  10:31am   ABC Learning closes door on 55 centres  09:29am   Consumer confidence surges in December  09:28am   Broadwater, Humfrey on acquisition trail  09:12am   Record export earnings for Sep quarter  Home loan numbers have increased for the first time since January on the back of interest rate cuts and the federal government's generous boost to first home buyer grants.  Economists, however, say it's too early to pronounce a recovery in the housing market amid the economic uncertainty.  Australian housing finance commitments for owner-occupied housing rose 1.3 per cent in October, seasonally adjusted, to 48,299, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said today.  Economists had expected the number of owner-occupier housing finance commitments to rise by 1.5 per cent in October.  Total housing finance by value rose 1.9 per cent in October, seasonally adjusted, to $17.650 billion.  The good news on the housing finance front came after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut interest rates in September for the first time in seven years.  The RBA followed this with a massive 100 basis point rate cut in October which took the cash rate to six per cent.  ANZ economist Alex Joiner said the generous interest rate cuts were largely responsible to the first rise in housing finance since January.  'It was the significant cut in interest rates,' Dr Joiner said.  'The cut we saw in September was just 25 basis points but then the much larger cut in October would have brought people in the market.'  In October, the federal government also announced it would triple the first home buyer grant for new dwellings to $21,000 and double it to $14,000 for established homes.  Both measures came into effect in October as part of the Rudd government's $10.4 billion stimulus package to boost the flagging economy.  'The increase in the proportion of first home buyers eased by the actual number was still higher,' Dr Joiner said.  The proportion of first home buyers in October made up 19.5 per cent of the housing finance market in October, compared with 19.7 per cent in September.  But the number of first home buyers getting a mortgage jumped to 9,901 in October, from 9,347 a month earlier.  Borrowing for established dwellings rose although the construction of new dwellings fell.  Dr Joiner said it was too early to declare a recovery in the Australian housing sector, especially in the construction area.  'There's still a lot of uncertainty in the building sector,' he said.  'Builders aren't sure whether they can get the finance and there's uncertainty from an economic perspective going forward.  'There's economic uncertainty out there and the prospect unemployment will rise will weigh on increases in housing finance.'  Conversely, investor housing was expected to recovery as investors moved their assets from shares into property.  Westpac economists said in the note the rise housing finance in October signalled the start of a recovery.  'While it was only a modest rise in October, we see it as the beginning of a recovery,' Westpac said.  'This will act to support house prices and trigger a recovery in new dwelling construction.'  Westpac said the RBA's decision to slash interest rates by 300 basis points since September, and the federal government's stimulus package for first home buyers, would breathe life back into the housing market.  'However, rising unemployment and tighter lending standards in response to the credit crisis will act to crimp the pace of recovery.'  The rise in housing finance commitments in October came after a 29 per cent fall during the previous eight months.  JPMorgan economist Helen Kevans said the prospect of more interest rate cuts would bring more buyers to the housing market.  'Many first home buyers should, however, be attracted to the property market by further interest rate cuts,' she said.  'We maintain our forecast that the RBA in February, when the RBA board next meets, will lower the cash rate by another 50 basis points, and then again in March by another 25bp, taking the key rate to 3.5 per cent , which we believe will be the terminal cash rate in this cycle.'  The cash rate has not been at 3.5 per cent since early in 1965.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
