The Australian stock market is expected to open stronger on Monday after Wall Street surged on news of massive US job losses.  CommSec senior analyst Craig James expects the benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index to rise by between 20 and 30 points. 'It should be an encouraging start for us on Monday,' Mr James said. 'The fact that the US markets rallied despite some dreadful jobs data is quite encouraging.' Shares in the US surged on Friday with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 259.18 points, or 3.09 per cent, to 8,637.09.  Figures released in the US showed US employers axed 533,000 jobs in November, the most since 1974.  US stocks rallied as the data raised hopes that Washington will again step in to help the economy. 'What the US investors are doing is looking past the recession now and they're looking towards the recovery,' Mr James said. 'Markets start to rally when you get the peak in the job losses.' Looking at the local market, Mr James said, not all sectors would rise on Monday. 'Not all sectors are going to do well. 'Gold was lower and oil was lower, so it may be the banks and defensive type stocks that continue to rise. 'But the fact that the Dow Jones turned around and finished in the black will be positive news for local investors.' On Friday, the Australian stock market was dragged back by weakness in the resources sector after a big drop in the price of oil.  The S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 closed down 42.5 points, or 1.2 per cent, to 3,489.9.  In economic news this week, Mr James said, the focus would be on the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens' speech on Tuesday, and the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) labour force data for November, due out on Thursday.  Mr James said the unemployment rate will rise over the next year, from the current rate of 4.3 per cent. 'We should expect that unemployment is going to trend a little higher from here,' he said. 'Jobs losses are occurring. 'We'll probably get an unemployment rate in a year's time of around 5.25 per cent, reflecting the slowdown that were seeing domestically as well as globally.' Also this week, ANZ job advertisements data for November will be released on Monday.  On Tuesday, the National Australia Bank (NAB) business survey for November is due.  The Westpac/Melbourne Institute consumer sentiment index for December and ABS housing finance data for October will be released on Wednesday.  On Thursday, Melbourne Institute consumer inflation expectations for December is released.  Companies holding annual general meetings this week include Westpac Banking Corp, Bank of Queensland, BT Investment Management, Strathfield Group, Macquarie Countrywide Trust, OrotonGroup and Rubik Financial.  
