JOB advertisements have fallen for the seventh consecutive month as the global financial crisis impacts Australia's labour market.  As well, ads in newspapers suffered the biggest two-month fall in the 30-year history of the ANZ job ads survey.   The survey found total job ads fell 8.6 per cent, seasonally adjusted, in November,  The number of jobs ads slipped to a weekly average of 223,363 - the lowest tally since February 2007 - even though the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut interest rates in that month by 75 basis points.   On an annual basis, internet jobs ads were down by 18.6 per cent.   Jobs ads in newspaper fell by 12 per cent to 11,767, following October's 12.1 per cent fall, and declined by a yearly pace of 42.7 per cent.   This was the weakest annual pace of newspaper ad growth since 1991 when Australia was last in recession.   Internet advertisements, meanwhile, dropped by 8.4 per cent in November, to a near two-year low of 199,433, following October's 5.5 per cent drop, and falling by an annual pace of 16.6 per cent.   Website job ads have now fallen for the fourth consecutive month, or for seventh months in a row if July's flat result is included.   ANZ head of economics Warren Hogan said the global financial crisis was affecting the Australian labour market. 'As a leading indicator of economic conditions in Australia, the latest job advertisements data suggest the global financial crisis has had a substantial impact on the Australian economy in the December quarter,' he said. Mr Hogan said newspaper job advertising had declined by the biggest margin in the ANZ survey's 30-year history. 'This tells us that hiring intentions have been heavily impacted by the latest wave of uncertainty and financial distress caused by the global financial crisis,' he said. ANZ said Australia's unemployment rate was likely to rise rapidly over the next six months. 'If the recent weakness in job ads is sustained, it would be consistent with a contraction in total employment over the first six months of 2009,' Mr Hogan said. 'This, of course would result in a much more rapid rise in the unemployment than we are currently forecasting.' Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force data for November is due out on Thursday, with economists expecting the jobless rate to jump to 4.5 per cent from a present 4.3 per cent.   The RBA cut rates in November by 75 basis points, to 5.25 per cent, following rate cuts in October and September. 
