By Jana Mlcochova PRAGUE, Dec 12 (Reuters) - The global crisis has tightened its grip on industry-heavy central Europe, causing Hungarian and Czech manufacturing to shrink and forcing the latter's biggest producer to shift to a four-day work week until mid-2009. Hungary is facing recession and analysts said the Czech Republic, which has seen its economy brake swiftly due to a collapse in demand from the euro zone, is flirting with growth below 2 percent or less next year, versus 6.6 percent in 2007. Market watchers said they expected the impact to prompt rapid cuts to already falling interest rates. They also said the Czechs should join other EU states in stimulating the economy through public spending, a move they have so far resisted. Data showed on Friday that Czech October industrial output fell 7.6 percent versus the previous year, the worst result since the statistics office began its current data series at the start of 2001. 'The number is negative and clearly shows the recession in the euro zone is impacting the Czech economy faster and more strongly than expected so far,' said David Marek, an analyst at Patria Finance. In Hungary, data confirmed industry shrank 7.2 percent in October, with new orders down around 11 percent on both export and domestic orders. Manufacturing firms there took the hit earlier than the Czechs and have been laying off workers by the thousands in recent months, while the government has also been forced to turn to the IMF and European Union for a $25 billion bailout. Hungarian central Bank Governor Andras Simor forecast up to 100,000 new layoffs in 2009, which would carry the country's 7.7 percent unemployment rate above 10 percent. The news did not help Central European currencies and stocks, which extended morning falls after coming under pressure from the collapse of a U.S. auto sector bailout. INDUSTRY IN RECESSION The problem is spreading. In Poland, the region's largest economy, analysts expect output to have contracted by 5.1 percent in November, versus 0.2 percent growth in October. On Friday, Polish deputy Finance Minister Katarzyna Zajdel-Kurowska stuck to the government's 3.7 percent growth forecast, widely seen by analysts as optimistic. But in a signal she may see some downside risk, she said growth 'for sure' would not be below 3 percent in 2009. The Czech Republic's largest producer and exporter, Volkswagen unit Skoda Auto, said on Friday that because of the collapse in demand for cars in western Europe it would enact a four-day work week at factories for the first half of next year, slashing time spent producing by a fifth. French car sales dropped 14 percent last month, while Germany posted an 18 percent decline. With the cars making up 20 percent of Czech output, Skoda's shift will hit car parts makers and other suppliers, hammering the backbone of Czech exports. Central bank Governor Zdenek Tuma has said he sees next year's growth at 0-3 percent, below the bank's official forecast for a 2.9 percent. Some analysts have even warned the Czechs could face the brink of recession. 'Growth will probably be significantly lower ... close to a zero, somewhere just below 1 percent,' said Citibank analyst Jaromir Sindel. Separate data also showed the Czech current account posting a worse-than-expected deficit of 21.99 billion crowns ($1.12 billion) in October, the worst result since June, mainly caused by a trade deficit of 630 million crowns. Similar numbers showed the October trade gap widened more than expected in Poland as well. Exports fell 1.2 percent year-on-year, the first fall since the start of 2002. SLASHING POLICY Patria's Marek said the poor industry showing would prompt the Czech central bank to slash interest rates by half a percentage point from their current 2.75 percent -- and more cuts later -- following a full point in cuts since August. Hungary, too, is expected to follow up on a surprise 50-basis-point cut last week which took its benchmark rate to 10.5 percent -- backtracking from a hike of 300 basis points in October to prop up the forint currency. But analysts said looser policy would not necessarily stabilise volatile currency markets or unfreeze debt markets and interbank lending that have seized up since the collapse of U.S. bank Lehman Brothers in September. 'It's all about confidence and global risk aversion... 100 basis points here or there is not going to make a big difference,' said Neil Shearing, an economist at London-based consultancy Capital Economics. Another problem is that plummeting growth will hit tax revenues and drive up budget deficits. That could be exacerbated by potential fiscal stimulus packages to jump start the slowing economies. That has been a topic of heated debate in western Europe and a step that so far the Poles have indicated they do not want to follow and the Czechs have said they will avoid unless growth will fall to below 2 percent. 'It is necessary to prepare, as quickly as possible, some stimulus that would help both export firms and the Czech economy in general,' Patria's Marek said. (Writing by Michael Winfrey; Editing by Andy Bruce) Keywords: FINANCIAL EASTEUROPE/ (prague.newsroom@thomsonreuters.com; +420 224 190 477; Reuters Messaging: jana.mlcochova.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
