 There is growing dissatisfaction with the cost of doing business with Australia's commercial banks, a survey says.  The dissatisfaction is particularly acute after most banks declined to pass on in full interest rate cuts from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA).  The survey, from banking research and advisory company East &amp;amp; Partners, measured how businesses ranked their bank's performance in nine different areas.  On a scale of zero (very dissatisfied) to 10 (very satisfied), the issue of pricing fell to 4.91 in December, down 'significantly' from 5.31 in February.  East &amp;amp; Partners head of market analysis Robert Morgan said the increased dissatisfaction regarding pricing was due to the perception that banks had not completely passed on the RBA's rate cuts to business customers. 'Anything below five is certainly a red flag,' Mr Morgan. 'I don't think you'd want to be seeing it slip too much lower because 4.91 is not a great score in anyone's books.' The RBA lowered official interest rates by 300 basis points, or three percentage points, over the past four months to 4.25 per cent in an effort to kick-start the economy.  Official interest rates may be at their lowest since 1973, according to RBA figures, but business lending rates have, until recently, fallen short of the move downwards in home lending rates.  National Australia Bank Ltd scored the highest rating for pricing at 6.14 in the survey.  Mr Morgan declined to reveal which bank scored the lowest rating of 3.71, but said there was no correlation between the size of any bank and how they rated in terms of pricing. 'It was very mixed in terms of performance,' Mr Morgan said. Australia's big four banks, with their AA credit ratings, can borrow funds more cheaply on wholesale money markets compared with smaller, second-tier banks.  Pricing achieved the second-worst satisfaction rating, behind only convenience.  Mr Morgan said convenience was as much about how difficult it was to obtain credit as it was about the ease of doing day-to-day banking. 'Accessing money has become a lot less convenient because the banks are obviously becoming stricter in who they lend to,' Mr Morgan said. The survey found those businesses with annual turnover of between $5 million and $150 million had more to complain about than those at big end of town with turnovers between $150 million and $500 million.  Mr Morgan said this finding was no surprise, given those with bigger turnover commanded more attention due to of the size of their business. 'Obviously the further you move up in turnover the more bargaining power you have,' Mr Morgan said. 'To a degree, if the bank is going to be getting considerably more business from a top-500 institution, they are going to try and safeguard that business as much as possible.' The business banking customer satisfaction monitor was conducted with 850 companies turning over between $5 million and $500 million annually.  East &amp;amp; Partners says it conducts 10,200 direct interviews with business banking customers each year.
