  Colin Barnett has lashed out at mining giant Rio Tinto for flagging job cuts in WAs iron ore industry, claiming the decision is more to do with bad investments in America than the world economic crisis.   The Premier said yesterday that while he accepted some job losses in WA he expected they would be minimal in light of Rios difficulties in the US.   Rio, which operates mines in the Pilbara, has blamed the world economic crisis for its decision to slash 14,000 jobs worldwide.   Mr Barnett said Rio had other reasons for looking to cut its workforce. The basic problem for Rio is that they made a decision, a corporate decision, to buy Alcan in America, which has proven not to be a sound decision, Mr Barnett said. Rio Tinto got themselves into a bit of a mess corporately and now were seeing the consequences.   Rio racked up a $38 billion debt buying Alcan and had flagged selling businesses to pay for it but those sales have been hit by the collapse in company values in the global economic crisis.   A spokesman for Rio said the company had no comment on the Premiers claims.   Treasurer Troy Buswell remained bullish about the States employment prospects despite latest figures showing unemployment creeping up and Treasury figures predicting a slump in economic growth in the 2009-10 financial year.   Mr Buswell said the latest Treasury indications were that WAs growth rate would be between 5.5 and 6 per cent this financial year but 2 per cent in 2009-10 as the impact of the world economic crisis was felt.   Private sector investment numbers are still relatively firm,   which reflects the lead times associated with those larger investment projects in WA. But we are expecting growth in 2009-10 will be considerably lower. The indications are that it will be in the vicinity of 2 per cent, he said.   He said the rest of the country expected an economic growth rate of 1.5 per cent this year rising to 2 per cent next year.   Unemployment rose to 3 per cent in WA last month from an all-time low of 2.3 per cent in October.   But Mr Buswell said he expected employment to continue to grow. The advice that Treasury is giving me is that while employment will slow it will remain positive, he said. One of the upsides is that employment growth will remain positive and personal consumption spending should remain relatively solid during the period.   BankWest chief economist Alan Langford said job losses in resources industries would affect household spending and flow through the economy.   UnionsWA boss Dave Robinson called for the State Government to consider a Budget deficit using public works to maintain economic stimulus.
