The share of fixed-rate home loans in the mortgage market has dropped to a record low as financial markets price in another aggressive interest rate cut in early 2009.  Hefty break fees for switching from an average fixed to a standard variable home loan rose sharply this week to $19,000 as debt futures markets and economists said official rates would fall to 1965 levels by February.  Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Glenn Stevens this week refused to rule out cutting interest rates in January, a time when the central does not usually meet, as the storm clouds of an economic slowdown gather.  Just three per cent of home borrowers took out a fixed-rate home loan in October, Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) housing finance data out this week showed.  This was the lowest proportion on record since the ABS began collecting data on fixed-rate loans in 1991.  That was a big turnaround from March this year, when fixed-rate home loans had a 23.9 per cent share of the mortgage market, the third highest level on record.  Between March and August 2008, 43,632 borrowers choose a fixed-rate home loan, for two years or more, when interest rates were at a 12-year high.  This was before the RBA cut rates by 300 basis points between September and December, reversing the dozen rate rises between mid-2002 and early 2008.  The cash rate to a six-and-a-half-year low of 4.25 per cent, taking standard variable mortgage rates to 6.74 per cent.  A borrower who took out an average $250,000 loan, fixed at nine per cent for three years back in June, faces a $19,000 exit fee if they want to switch to a standard variable loan.  Last week, the fee was $18,000, according to Canstar Cannex data of exit fees charged by the major banks.  The charge for leaving an equivalent $400,000 loan jumped to $31,000, from $29,000.  Break fees for leaving fixed-rate loans fluctuate and tend to rise when official interest rates are expected to fall.  St George Bank Chief Economist Besa Deda said while the RBA was unlikely to cut rates in January, a 75 basis point cut in February was possible.  Such a move would take the overnight cash rate to 3.5 per cent for the first time since February 1965.  A three-quarter of a percentage point rate cut would take standard variable mortgage rates to 5.99 per cent, from 6.74 per cent.  Under this scenario, monthly repayments on a standard variable mortgage would drop to $1,498, from $1620.  Fixed-rate borrowers paying nine per cent interest would continue to pay $2,058 a month.  If interest rates fell by 75 basis points as expected, fixed-rate borrowers would be paying about $20,000 more in monthly repayments over the next three years, depending on when they entered into the contract.  Debt futures markets are expecting an even more aggressive 100 basis point rate cut in February, which would take official interest rates to 3.25 per cent, the lowest level since February 1964.  Still, Canstar Cannex senior financial analyst Harry Senlitonga said fixed-rate borrowers had to consider that interest rates could rise again. 'Twelve months from today, there might be a possible upward movement in interest rates,' he said. 'No one knows. 'Earlier this year, people thought interest rates would go up by to more than 10 per cent but towards the second half of this year, we have experienced significant rate cuts.' A senior corporate affairs manager with loan broker Mortgage Choice, Kristy Sheppard, said fixed-rate borrowers considering a switch to a standard variable loan needed to be aware of extra costs, such as extra fees, associated with such a move. 'The break cost is payable upfront at the time the contract is broken and some lenders may allow the new loan to be increased to cover the adjustment fee, but this may involve additional application fees and a full assessment of the borrowers current financial situation,' she said.  
