Red alert! Red alert! China is slowing. China is slowing.  Persistent punches by the global financial crisis has knocked out the economies of the United States, the Eurozone, Japan and the United Kingdom to name a few. By its sheer size and on-going industrialisation and urbanization, China was widely expected to withstand these knock out punches and cushion the impact on the economies of Asia and Australia.  Guess what? China's knees are buckling. As more economic dominoes fall, the more punches it receives. Bloomberg reported last night that Chinese exports fell by 2.2 per cent in the year to November - the first time in seven years. This is bad for China. At the same time, imports plummeted by 17.9 per cent from a year ago - the biggest since 1995. This is bad for the rest of the world.  This could bring about a nasty turn of events. Just as the lenders of last resort - the major world central banks - are running low on ammunition, the consumer of last resort is now sputtering.  Exports account for around 40 per cent of the Chinese economy and its contraction, if it persists, does not bode well for China. And what is bad for China is bad for the global economy. China's diminished export income would show up in reduced demand for products and services other nations are selling.  This has already become evident in the massive decline in Chinese imports. And worse, weaker Chinese imports highlight the weakening domestic demand in its economy.  Just two days ago, Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens mused about China slowing much more than expected. Similarly, the World Bank recently downgraded its 2009 growth forecast for China to 7.5 per cent from 9.5 per cent. It is widely perceived that China needs to grow by around 8 per cent to keep its unemployment stable. Anecdotal evidence shows that sacked factory workers are already staging strikes in the country. Should the World Bank' prediction prove accurate, China will be in more trouble. The world will be in much more trouble.  This is particularly dire news for Australia. The economy has been partially shielded from the fall out of the recession in the United States, Japan and Europe because of the seemingly unrelenting growth in the Chinese economy - our second biggest export market. This, too, now appears to be relenting.  To ensure social stability and maintain the economy's growth pace, Chinese fiscal and monetary authorities have promised more forceful measures' in the form of easy monetary policy, tax cuts, extra efforts aimed at job creation and a stable currency.  For all our sake, let us hope that the consumer of last resort succeeds -- and soon -- so it could continue to consume. If it fails, prepare for an Australian recession.  
