With global institutions forecasting world growth of 2.2 per cent for 2009, India cannot remain immune to the general trend of slowdown and stay put ostrich-like to proclaim that it would bring growth back to the 9 per cent trajectory by instituting reforms. G. Srinivasan New Delhi, Dec. 25 Even as hints of a second round of economic stimulus measures continue unabated, the economy scorecard as set out in the mid-year review presented to Parliament recently was long on prescriptions but woefully short on identifying sectors that can help revive activity and effect a rebound in domestic demand.  For all its laboured analysis on the state of the economy and what needs to be done, the review of the Finance Ministry loftily summed up that in the face of a global slowdown and a moderation in domestic investment demand, accelerating the pending policy reforms is perhaps, the answer to flagging business sentiments and bringing the economy back to the 8.5 to 9 per cent growth path. When country after country is falling into the quagmire of recession, with global institutions forecasting at best a tepid world economic growth of 2.2 per cent for 2009, India cannot remain immune to the general trend of slowdown and stay put ostrich-like to proclaim that it would bring growth back to the 9 per cent trajectory by instituting reforms, particularly when this is not the best of times to display any imprudent audacity on that front. In fact, the very closed nature of the Indian economy, despite the creeping openness pursued over 17 years of reform, has resulted only in incremental reforms that sorely tested the tolerance of trading partners and foreign investors. To boot, Indian authorities waxed eloquent on the tightly controlled financial sector over the years which helped the country weather the deleterious effect of the recent financial market meltdown abroad.   It is also interesting to note that the latest review acknowledged that India has moved to a higher growth path of 8.5 to 9 per cent growth as a result of the reforms of the 1990s and it did not have much to say beyond the 1990s as it has become common knowledge that the major ruling party in the coalition must perforce undertake reform only by stealth and in fits and starts.   What is quite perplexing about the review is its peremptory observation that the high growth miracle economies of Asia (by extension the economies of South East Asia) were able to maintain high growth for decades despite repeated shocks, as they responded quickly and effectively to counter these shocks through pragmatic policies. But after the financial tsunami of 1997-98 that struck the tiger economies, most of the miracle economies went into a tailspin and some of the frontrunners like Malaysia even resorted to capital control to stave off disaster, much to the chagrin of IMF and cognate bodies. The reviews blithe remarks that the recent developments have also brought out the need for introducing reform measures, including the financial sector, to make the economy more competitive and the undue haste with which the UPA government in its last lap, and after throwing away the apron-string of Left support, gathered pluck to introduce the insurance reform bill in Parliament to allow FDI up to 49 per cent betray a naivety.   One has to only contrast this approach with the stark reality that AIG, an American international insurance and financial services organisation, had to be bailed out by the US government after it got exposed to toxic debt! In India, with multiple regulators in the financial sector, any studied, sequenced, calibrated and, above all, coordinated policy response would be quite difficult to expect, even as routine calls for financial sector liberalisation is made with gusto. Finally, the reviews range of GDP growth for the current fiscal at 7-8 per cent, with a rider that with the progressive weakening of the rich world economies the upside growth potential has been squeezed and downside risk has escalated with each passing month since October 2008, while Dr Raghuram Rajan, Special Advisor to the Prime Minister, puts it at 5-7 per cent GDP appear to be a safe bet rather than a sane forecast, policy analysts note.  Article E-Mail :: Comment :: Syndication ::  
