 PM Font size:       Slowing loan growth to eurozone households and companies does not yet signal a credit crunch but suggests tighter conditions are starting to bite and the recession is far from over, analysts said on Tuesday.  European Central Bank data showed that growth in loans to the private sector fell to 7.1 percent in November on an annual basis, the slowest pace in four years and down from 7.8 percent in October.  On a monthly basis, loans stagnated after growing in September and October.  The figures upped the pressure on the ECB as they highlight concerns "that tighter credit conditions could post an increasing threat to already struggling economies," IHS  Insight economist Howard Archer said.  Bank of America economist Holger Schmieding told AFP: "The data do not yet show a credit crunch" because loans were still on the rise, but nonetheless demonstrated that "loan growth to the private sector is slowing down sharply."  As the eurozone marks its 10th anniversary on Thursday and adds a 16th member with Slovakia, the ECB figures and a German poll suggested the recession has gotten worse in the fourth quarter of 2008.  In Germany, the eurozone's biggest economy, a survey by the Ifo economic institute found that credit conditions for firms in industry and trade were tighter still in December."The trend towards  restrictive bank lending policies is accelerating," Ifo president Hans-Werner Sinn said in a statement.  Schmieding concluded that "the credit data do suggest that things are turning down."  Other ECB figures showed that growth in the ECB's broadest M3 money supply indicator in November slowed sharply to 7.8 percent from 8.7 percent in October.  The money supply indicator measures cash, overnight deposits, other short-term deposits, repurchase agreements, shares and units in money market funds and debt securities with a maturity of up to two years.  A falling figure points to lower demand in the economy, which normally means that inflation will ease and so allow the ECB to lower interest rates from the current benchmark level of 2.50 percent.  Eurozone inflation dropped in November to a 14-month low of 2.1 percent from 3.2 percent in October, according to EU figures, and all expectations are for it to go lower still.  The ECB's inflation target is put at just below 2.0 percent and analysts expect the central bank to cut interest rates, possibly sharply, in 2009 in an effort to get the economy moving again.  "The ECB looks set to scale its key interest rate back to 1.0 percent by the spring," Commerbank analyst Christoph Balz said.  Many have forecast a cut when the ECB' governing council meets here on January 15 although key ECB figures have sought to dampen such expectations.  Finally, growth of the ECB's M1 indicator of cash and overnight deposits fell to 2.3 percent in November after posting a jump to 3.7 percent in October.  "Funds that had been channeled into very liquid assets such as overnight deposits during the intensification of financial market turbulences in October have been withdrawn in the meantime and invested in longer-term assets," Balz noted.  Schmieding, who considers the M1 figure a good indicator of economic turning points, noted that although it had fallen in November, its trend since mid-2008 was stronger overall.  "I follow it, I like very much what I see, I think it does point to some recovery late next year -- but it's far too early to say this proves it," he said.  Copyright 2008, by AFP . All rights reserved     READERS COMMENTS  Be the first to comment on this  Name E-mail Website (Optional) Comment Latest News      NEWS IN PICTURES!   Most Popular Stories  Tue, 23 Jan 2007 08:56 AM  Tue, 23 Jan 2007 09:03 AM Abraaj Capital managing director named Young  Leader by WEF Wed, 17 Jan 2007 01:16 PM  Sun, 18 Nov 2007 09:36 AM  Wed, 20 Feb 2008 07:22 AM   .  .  News .  .  .  Reports .  .   . About  .  .  .  .  .  Copyright  2008 .com. All rights reserved.  strSiteUrl "http:business.maktoob.com/" strLoading "Loading
