Non-bank lenders could be squeezed out of the mortgage business within 12 to 18 months if global credit markets remain frozen, consolidating the big banks' competitive advantage.  An extensive analysis of Australia's mortgage market reveals non-bank lenders have been hard hit by the global financial crisis, which has made it almost impossible to access funding.  And they have been further disadvantaged by the Federal Government's guarantee on the banks' wholesale funding, which proffers a AAA rating on debt they secure in foreign markets.  Non-bank lender Challenger last week obtained a further $324.1 million from investors, moving back into the residential mortgage-backed security market.  The funding was on top of $500 million granted through the Government's $8 billion 'pro-competition' fund. But Challenger said without the Government money it would have been almost impossible to make the deal.  Releasing the Deloitte Australian Mortgage Report yesterday, securitisation partner Graham Mott said non-bank lenders had either quit offering new business, or were issuing only a small number of new loans.  Most could survive for about 12 to 18 months on the income that they generated on existing loans. But after that, if credit markets remained tight, they would have to redesign their businesses to survive, he said.  The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics has already raised doubts about the level of competition in the Australian mortgage market.  And it suggested that while smaller banks and non-bank lenders were being pushed out of the market, the larger banks were not 'actively' competing with each another.  But the Deloitte report found the cost of funding had 'significantly increased', even for the major banks. 'Spreads for AAA-rated bonds have blown out from 15 basis points to 100 basis points,' it said, noting the premium that banks must pay to borrow on top of official cash rates.  Australia's biggest banks have so far passed on about 90% of the Reserve Bank's interest rate cuts, totalling 3 percentage points.  And yesterday they were among the leading movers on the sharemarket as the S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 Index gained 141.7 points, or 4.1%, to 3631.6 points.  Reflecting on the state of credit markets, the Bank of International Settlements quarterly review said borrowing in international debt securities markets 'retreated sharply' in the third quarter of 2008. 'Net issuance of bonds and notes decreased to $US247 billion, down substantially from $US1086 billion in the second quarter,' the bank found. And executives are noticing the difference. Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet's quarterly business expectations survey found that 48 per cent of executives said recent changes in credit market conditions had impacted negatively on their businesses, up from 26 per cent a few months ago.  Mr Mott said 2009 would 'continue to be difficult in terms of access to funding'. According to Deloitte's survey of almost 1500 people, home owners have already started migrating to the Big Four banks and younger borrowers, in particular, were likely to seek the safety of Australia's AA-rated banks.  http://deloitte.com.au
