THE Australian sharemarket is expected to open stronger today after Wall Street surged despite news of huge job losses.  An analyst with CommSec, Craig James, said he expected the S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index to rise by between 20 and 30 points.  'It should be an encouraging start for us,' Mr James said.  'The fact that the US markets rallied despite some dreadful jobs data is quite encouraging.'  Shares in the US surged on Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average gaining 259.18 points, or 3 per cent, to 8637.09.  Figures showed US employers axed 533,000 jobs last month, the most since 1974.  US stocks rallied as the data raised hopes that Washington would again step in to help the economy.  'What the US investors are doing is looking past the recession now and they're looking towards the recovery,' Mr James said.  'Markets start to rally when you get the peak in the job losses.'  Looking at the local market, Mr James said not all sectors would rise. 'Gold was lower and oil was lower, so it may be the banks and defensive-type stocks that continue to rise.  'But the fact that the Dow Jones turned around and finished in the black will be positive news for local investors.'  On Friday the Australian sharemarket was dragged down by weakness in the resources sector after a big drop in the price of oil. The S&amp;amp;P/ASX200 closed down 42.5 points, or 1.2 per cent, at 3489.9.  In economic news this week, Mr James said, the focus would be on a speech by the governor of the Reserve Bank, Glenn Stevens, tomorrow and Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force data for last month, due out on Thursday.  Mr James said unemployment would rise over the next year from the current rate of 4.3 per cent.  'We should expect that unemployment is going to trend a little higher from here. Jobs losses are occurring. We'll probably get an unemployment rate in a year's time of around 5.25 per cent, reflecting the slowdown that we are seeing domestically as well as globally.'  ANZ job advertisements data for last month will be published today, and the National Australia Bank business survey for last month is due tomorrow.  The Westpac/Melbourne Institute consumer sentiment index for this month and ABS housing finance data for October will be published on Wednesday.  Melbourne Institute consumer inflation expectations for this month will be published on Thursday.  Companies holding annual meetings this week include Westpac Bank, Bank of Queensland, BT Investment Management, Strathfield Group, and Macquarie Countrywide Trust.  
