The report predicts the states economy will shrink 1.4 percent, employment will decrease 2.5 percent and unemployment will rise to 8.4 percent. This recession has been with us for a while, but it has been mild, so it wasnt causing a lot of pain. But it intensified in a very dramatic way in the second half of September and will continue to intensify going forward, said the forecasts author and the director of the Selig Center for Economic Growth, Jeff Humphreys.  Last year, the Selig Center predicted that the states economy would grow by 2.4 percent and employment would expand by 1.1 percent in 2008 and pegged the chance of recession at 40 percent. But Humphreys cited three emerging threats that could impact those projections oil prices, the housing downturn and the prolonged drought in North Georgia and all those recession triggers were pulled this year, he said.  When the credit markets thaw and how much consumers pull back their spending are two key factors in how long Georgia suffers a recession and how long it will last in 2009, said Mike Chriszt, an assistant vice president in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlantas research department. There is a higher degree of uncertainty heading into 2009 than anyone anticipated, Chriszt said. In 2008, job losses in the state are being led by drops in construction, manufacturing and natural resources and mining, areas expected to worsen next year. Georgias unemployment rate rose to 7 percent in October, the highest rate in more than 16 years, and will continue to increase in 2009, said Michael Thurmond, commissioner of the Georgia Department of Labor.  Even before the states economy begins to expand again in late 2009, at least one employment sector will experience growth. Georgia is expected to add 9,800 jobs, or 2.1 percent, in education and health services, though that does little to offset the estimated 175,000 jobs Humphreys expects the state to lose during the 18-month recession, the most job losses since the Great Depression.  The employment losses could be worse, but many companies were already shedding jobs leading into the economic slowdown, he said.  However, more than 50 companies relocated or opened new locations in metro Atlanta this year, a 10 percent rise from 2007, and a weak U.S. dollar makes the state more attractive for foreign businesses and its exports cheaper.
