* Dec futures hurt by rollover of longs to March contract  * Investors trim long futures positions before U.S. jobs data  * PM Aso comments on BOJ buying help trim losses  * BOJ drains same-day funds as overnight call rate dips  TOKYO, Dec 5 (Reuters) - December 10-year Japanese government bond futures fell on Friday, as investors trimmed long positions before the release of U.S. jobs data due later in the day and a looming benchmark switch in JGB futures.  But the market pared some of its losses after Prime Minister Taro Aso said it was up to the Bank of Japan to decide how many JGBs it would buy in line with the central bank's internal rule. [ID:nT332779]  The decline in the lead futures contract was partly caused by investors cutting long positions in the December contract and rolling them over into the March contract 2JGBH9, analysts said.  December futures were also likely pressured by pure position unwinding by players holding long positions, said Kazuhiko Sano, chief fixed-income strategist for Nikko Citigroup.  'Position-wise, they probably did not want to keep carrying large longs,' Sano said.  'The moves have a technical bent, but I think there was probably some profit-taking in cash bonds as well,' he added.  December 10-year JGB futures fell 0.29 point to 139.13 2JGBv1 after falling as low as 138.68.  The benchmark 10-year JGB yield dipped 0.5 basis point to 1.365 percent , hovering near a 7- month low of 1.340 percent hit earlier this week after a 10-year bond auction was met by solid investor demand.  Market players bought longer-dated cash bonds after Aso's comments, traders said.  When a ruling party lawmaker suggested in parliament that Aso could propose an increase in the central bank's outright buying of JGBs, Aso said: 'That's something the BOJ should consider.'  'Investors reacted to Aso's comments because government-debt buying by global central banks has been one focal point in the market,' said Naomi Hasegawa, senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities. Continued...  
