NEWS - White House says aid deal for automakers could be reached on Monday - China's leaders to meet to map out economic policy for next year - France's Sarkozy, Britain's Brown, EC's Barroso to meet European business leaders - Obama says will put strong new financial regulation at centre of economic recovery programme - Australia delivers A$8 billion in cash payments to families, pensioners - Japan bank lending hits record, commercial paper issuance tumbles - Krugman says policy makers will be unable to prevent crisis from inflicting serious damage MARKETS - U.S. stocks add three percent - European stocks surge 6.9 percent with auto stocks the top gainers and tracking Asia stocks' jump to a three-week high on U.S. infrastructure hopes - Oil rises above $43, dollar slips QUOTES 'Given that interest rates cannot be negative, further monetary policy actions are limited.' - Boston Federal Reserve President Eric Rosengren. 'I've urged pensioners and families to spend this money responsibly, to use this money to make ends meet, to help out their kids and help out their grandkids.' - Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd. 'Banks, ratings agencies, mortgage brokers, a whole bunch of folks (will) start having to be much more accountable and behave much more responsibly.' - Obama. 'The simple mechanics of producing a rescue for the world economy are very hard. The pace at which things are getting worse is so great that it's difficult to see how rescue measures can come.' - Paul Krugman, winner of the 2008 Nobel economics prize. EVENTS Monday, Dec. 8 LONDON - Britain's Gordon Brown, France's Sarkozy and ECB chief Barroso meet European business leaders in London. GENEVA - Fed board governor Randall Kroszner speaks at conference WASHINGTON - Fed governor Donald Kohn, Treasury interim assistant secretary for financial stability Neel Kashkari speak at national housing forum UK Producer Prices for November German industrial output for October U.S. employment trend for November (Compiled by London World Desk +44 207 542 9786) Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 1615 GMT COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
