You guys have another company PR which has not or will not release in public yet. It's posted on company website news link. It's not going to help anyway. Just FYI. Nortel Boosts Bohai Property Insurance with Intelligent, Unified Call Center Platform Unified Communications Solution Improves Customer Service and Productivity March 5, 2009 BEIJING  Bohai Property Insurance (Bohai Insurance), a Tianjin-based emerging national property company, will enhance customer service and tele-marketing capabilities covering the whole of China, through a single, unified call center platform powered by a Nortel* [TSX: NT, OTC: NRTLQ] unified communications solution. Established in 2005 with total share capital of US$162 Million, Bohai Property Insurance, has quickly achieved a reputation for value and innovation with its expansion to 25 provincial level branches in just over three years. This tremendous growth was the catalyst that prompted Bohai Insurance to make important long-term decisions about its call center and telephony infrastructure. In order to realize its goal of offering services nationwide, Bohai Insurance needed to implement a world-class communications solution that would be totally reliable, enhance the performance of its core business operations, and be scalable to grow rapidly with its expanding customer base. The dual capabilities of offering first-class customer service and winning new orders are paramount to an insurance company, said Xiaojing Wang, general manager, Information Technology Department, Bohai Insurance. Our rapid growth has been driven largely by our innovation in channels to market and the services we offer. These are powered by an advanced, mixed function call center based on Nortels unified communications solution, providing more efficient, real-time inbound response to customers and cost-effective outbound selling over the phone. Offering high scalability, reliability and redundancy, the new call center for Bohai Insurance will soon be expanded from its present 100 seats to 210 seats, and is helping the company realize rapid growth in a highly competitive market, said Jerry Huang, general manager, Enterprise Networks, Nortel Greater China. The technology is helping to drive the business forward in this increasingly Hyperconnected world, enabling customer service excellence across multiple media. And with Nortels solution, Bohai Insurance can expand its call center in new locations in the future, enabling remote staff to work together seamlessly - as if they are sitting next to each other - regardless of skill set and location. The solutions deployed in Bohai Insurance include Nortels Communication Server 1000 , IP Telephony and CTI link middle-ware products. The CS 1000 is a server-based, full-featured IP PBX that provides the benefits of a converged network plus advanced applications and more than 750 world-class telephony features. About Nortel Nortel is a recognized leader in delivering communications capabilities that make the promise of Business Made Simple a reality for our customers. Our next-generation technologies, for both service provider and enterprise networks, support multimedia and business-critical applications. Nortels technologies are designed to help eliminate today's barriers to efficiency, speed and performance by simplifying networks and connecting people to the information they need, when they need it. Nortel does business in more than 150 countries around the world. For more information, visit Nortel on the Web at www.nortel.com . For the latest Nortel news, visit www.nortel.com/news . Certain statements in this press release may contain words such as could, expects, may, anticipates, believes, intends, estimates, targets, envisions, seeks and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements or information under applicable securities legislation. These statements are based on Nortels current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which Nortel operates. These statements are subject to important assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and the actual outcome may be materially different from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see Nortels Annual Report on Form10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other securities filings with the SEC. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, Nortel disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. -end- *Nortel, the Nortel logo and the Globemark are trademarks of Nortel Networks. Contacts for Press and Analysts: Cici Liu 8610-6510-7109 ciciliu@nortel.com Additional Media &amp; Analyst Contacts
