The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) says the nation is on track to avoid a recession but expects the economy to grow at below average pace for the next year or two.      In an upbeat assessment of the local economy, RBA deputy governor Ric Battellino said Australia was well placed to cope with the global downturn.      &amp;amp;quot;It is important not to become too pessimistic because, fundamentally, household finances and the economy more generally remain in good shape,&amp;amp;quot; Mr Battellino told delegates at the Insolvency and Trustee Service Australia bankruptcy congress in Sydney.      Australia&amp;#039;s relationship with emerging Asian economies such as China played a big role in avoiding a recession in 2001, Mr Battellino said, and those links had &amp;amp;quot;strengthened further since 2001&amp;amp;quot;.      &amp;amp;quot;Australia managed to sidestep the 2001 global recession. Can it do it again?&amp;amp;quot; Mr Battellino said.      &amp;amp;quot;That is certainly what we are aiming for, and there is nothing in the data to date to suggest that we are off track.&amp;amp;quot;      ANZ Banking Group economists Riki Polygenis and Katie Dean said the speech was designed to &amp;amp;quot;short-circuit plummeting confidence in the Australian economic outlook&amp;amp;quot;.      CommSec chief economist Craig James praised Mr Battellino for pointing out that unlike the US, Australian house prices were unlikely to suffer sharp falls because the domestic market had an undersupply of housing.      &amp;amp;quot;The Reserve Bank has provided some balance into the economic debate, something that has been sadly lacking in recent times,&amp;amp;quot; Mr James said. Mr Battellino said growth in real incomes would be subdued over the next year or two, but there was &amp;amp;quot;no reason at this stage to doubt that past patterns would be repeated and that growth will pick up again&amp;amp;quot;.      &amp;amp;quot;Australia remains, after all, a very dynamic economy,&amp;amp;quot; he said.      But Mr Battellino said inflation could reduce the flexibility the RBA had in regard to interest rates changes. The task of managing the economy was more difficult now compared with 2001 because &amp;amp;quot;we are starting with a bigger inflation overhang&amp;amp;quot;.      &amp;amp;quot;The bank has for some time thought that inflation would peak in the second half of 2008 and then fall; accordingly, we have acted pre-emptively in reducing interest rates,&amp;amp;quot; Mr Battellino said.      &amp;amp;quot;Nonetheless, there is still a big task ahead to bring inflation down and this could limit room for manoeuvre on monetary policy.&amp;amp;quot;      Later, in response to a question from the audience, Mr Battellino said he was &amp;amp;quot;very confident&amp;amp;quot; inflation had peaked in the September quarter but conceded there was a lot of uncertainty surrounding the outlook.      &amp;amp;quot;Nobody can predict at this stage exactly how quickly it will come down or how low interest rates will go,&amp;amp;quot; he said.      &amp;amp;quot;They are just matters that have to be looked at and determined over time.&amp;amp;quot;      RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong said the strongly worded comments on inflation suggested the market was overly optimistic in expecting 125 basis points of cuts to the cash rate, which now sits at six per cent, by December.      &amp;amp;quot;Today&amp;#039;s speech is likely to be interpreted as a veiled message that cuts have been largely front loaded and may occur at a more gentle pace going forward,&amp;amp;quot; Ms Ong said.      The RBA will publish its latest inflation forecasts in its quarterly statement on monetary policy on November 10. In the August statement, the RBA forecast underlying inflation to fall back within its target band of between two and three per cent over the course of the economic cycle by the June quarter of 2010.      The latest consumer price index (CPI) showed headline inflation rose by five per cent in the year to September. Underlying inflation, which strips out volatile items, climbed by 4.7 per cent, the fastest pace since June 1991.      Link:  http://money.ninemsn.com.au/article.aspx?id=658008 
