At every turn we seem to hear about economic difficulties in all types of businesses. We are all concerned about how a downturn in one industry affects other operations. The businesses of car care and insurance are not different in this respect.  Whether you are a carwash veteran or a relative newcomer, you have spent a lot of time determining the financial risks you face in business. The insurance industry cannot help with all areas of uncertainty but does provide you the opportunity of protection for many of your basic financial risks. The purchase of insurance allows you to accept a known expense (the premium) and avoid the unknown expense of a covered loss.  Under current economic conditions, it is even more important to use your premium dollars wisely. Do not give up too much for too little. As you review your insurance portfolio, there are some guidelines you can follow to make informed decisions.  While no one likes to be told what to do, some of your insurance premium is mandated by your obligations to others. For example, do you have a loan or lease on any of your buildings, business personal property or automobiles? If so, the lender or loss payee probably has included in your agreement a requirement that you will provide coverage for the property in the event of loss or damage. Property insurance, therefore, will be needed.  Here are a few important considerations when managing this expense:  Review your limits of insurance to be sure they are adequate to protect the property at risk.  Check your policy to see if the coverage provides replacement cost coverage or offers only actual cash value protection.  Is there a coinsurance or insurance to value requirement that could penalize your settlement in the event of a loss?  Are any of your locations considered vacant by the definition in your policy? If so, are you aware of any exclusions or penalties that might effect how your loss, if any, would be paid?  Review your deductible (the amount you will need to pay out of pocket) in the event of a loss. The higher the deductible, the lower the premium will be. However, be certain you are not accepting a deductible that will put you into financial distress if you have a loss.  Business income insurance will become an even wiser use of your insurance dollars in difficult times. If you are having trouble making ends meet when you are operating and generating a positive cash flow, imagine how difficult it would be to meet the ongoing financial obligation to yourself and others if you were to be out of business because of an insured loss.  Automobile liability, general liability and workers compensation will be the other coverages you will want to monitor and keep in place, but do so in the most cost-effective method. The coverages for general liability and workers compensation may involve estimated exposures. For example, the workers compensation premium is a percentage of your payroll. If you have downsized and will have a reduced payroll, you may want to check with your agent to determine the estimated payrolls that were used to calculate the premium and see if the insurance company can reduce the estimated premium accordingly.  The general liability may be included with your property premium, or it can be rated on the number of bays you have, the gross receipts you expect or other measures. Your agent should be able to tell you if there are estimates involved than can be revised to reflect a more accurate picture of your exposures to loss.  The bottom line on automobile liability, general liability or workers compensation is that you should resist the temptation to cancel any of these coverages because you are not required to purchase them. When the economy is faltering, unfortunately, there often is an increase in claims for damages and/or injuries that may be less than obvious. As a business owner or operator, you will be faced with the costs of defending such allegations, whether or not the claims are groundless.  This is not the time to reduce your limits of protection from unknown financial exposures. You will not be able to significantly reduce your premiums, even if you change to minimum limits, as may be required by state laws.  Sometimes businesses are tempted to put off routine maintenance when money is tight. While this is not a good idea at any time, it is especially true with regard to the safety of your property, employees and customers while on your premises. Safety must remain a priority. It is impossible to measure the value of suffering that may be unnecessarily incurred when we let the desire for profit stand in the way of safety.  Remember the old saying, Dont be penny wise and pound foolish. In other words, insurance should be a method to help you in your battle to stay afloat when the business climate weakens so that you are positioned to flourish when the economy strengthens.  Scott Brothers is president and CEO of Joplin, Mo.-based The Insurancenter. The company has been insuring the car care industry since 1986 and is a writer of carwash insurance nationwide. For more information, contact 800.444.8675, cwspecialists@carwashinsurance.com or visit www.carwashinsurance.com.  
