A single mother trying to reduce her mortgage repayments after her divorce has been stung with a bill of nearly $80,000 from her bank.  Karen Maskell was over the moon and looking forward making a fresh start with her children after her Glass House home went under contract for $620,000 on Saturday.  However, her elation turned to disappointment this week when she learned that the National Australia Bank wanted $80,400 from her for exiting her mortgage early.  The exit fee is $60,000 more than she was quoted only two months ago, and will wipe out virtually all of her share of the divorce settlement, leaving her with not even enough for a deposit on a new home.  The travel agent and mother of two children aged one and four, now fears that she will end up on the rental roundabout after years of working to own a home. 'I was selling my house because it's a bit hard for me to afford the mortgage on it. I was going to downsize and get something more affordable. Now it's going to send us back renting,' she said. Ms Maskell said she and her now ex-husband were told 'it shouldn't be too much' if they needed to exit their loan.  The loan of $447,000 which they took out in early 2007 was fixed at an interest rate of 7.69% for 10 years.  She said her mortgage documents described the exit fee as 'unascertainable.' 'They never explain it to you. We would never have taken the loan if they'd explained that it would work out to be this much,' she said. Ms Maskell could avoid the fee if the purchase of her property falls through, but that would solve the problem as she cannot afford the $3800 monthly mortgage repayments long term. 'There's nothing I can do apart from try and fight it. I'm just going to end up renting and starting again with nothing.' Ms Maskell has written to the banking industry ombudsman and her Federal MP, Peter Slipper, for help.  A NAB spokesman said a team would look at Ms Maskell's file in the next few days but said customers who broke their loan agreements were liable for the bank's costs.  That figure was based on how much the funds cost the bank from the wholesale market in the first place, compared to the cost at the time of repayment, adjusted for the remainder of the fixed rate period.  Bruce McAnally, of Smartline Mortgages, Buderim, said Ms Maskell and her ex-husband would have had sound reasons for locking their loan while rates were rising and few could have predicted the recent fall.  He said Ms Maskell now had to make up the cost to the bank which could not re-loan the money now at the same higher rate that it had borrowed it.  Mr Maskell said home owners should consider how long they intended to hold a property before fixing interest rates.  He suggested locking in only half the loan to obtain the benefits of both fixed and variable rates.  Mr McAnally said the next few months were a good time to lock in as rates were unlikely to drop further.
