CEOs from Bank of America, Bank of New York, Citi, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, State Street and Wells Fargo were hauled up for a public flogging.   They were subjected to:  - Nonsensical tirades for taking the TARP (when some of the CEOs present never wanted the monies in the first place, but were obliged to take it in the 'national interest' immediately after the collapse of Lehman Brothers to help provide market stability).  - Criticized for not lending that money to individuals and businesses (when TARP funding was never given to lend, but simply to strengthen bank balance sheets).  - Pilloried for the huge bonuses they were said to have taken for their work in 2008 (when not one of the 8 CEOs took one dollar in bonus last year).   And then the bankers got it in the neck because they couldn't immediately provide precise details of where every last dime of the first part of the TARP funding went - when it was the lawmakers themselves who passed the legislation and authorised $350bn in unchecked and unaudited spending in the first place! Incredible.   Now don't get me wrong, Wall Street didn't exactly smother itself in glory. The industry's losses racked up over the last few quarters are truly horrendous, and the bonuses (and exit packages) paid to many bankers for failure are inexcusable, but for lawmakers to grandstand during a period of economic turmoil, when we all need to be working together to sort through this mess, is just as bad. The 7 minutes of utter drivel the CEOs were subjected to from a Representative who was acting like a character out of an Eddie Murphy film was symptomatic of the proceedings - ill-advised, unnecessary and completely inexplicable. What a complete waste of yet more taxpayers money!  What also gets me is exactly where were all these so-called 'oversight' lawmakers when the financial markets were heading for meltdown ? Where was their 'oversight' then ? Surely we should now have televised hearings so that we can drag these same Representatives in front of the cameras, bang the table and demand what they were doing when the financial markets went to Hell in a handcart ?  And that brings me to the silly lawmakers who have inserted a clause in the recently passed US stimulus package, which effectively restricts banker bonuses (in firms taking government handouts) to a maximum of one third of their base salaries. This measure, it seems, is there to 'protect' the investment of the American taxpayer. The upshot of all this, of course, is that all the best bankers (you know, the ones who can bring in the revenue streams which will be used to pay off the US taxpayer) will go ply their trades at European firms, or hedge funds. Now that's a cunning plan if ever there was one!  So, in conclusion, it's no surprise to learn that several firms (Goldman, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley among them) are exploring ways to give back the TARP funding they were allocated as quickly as possible. Wouldn't you want to get those numbskull lawmakers off your back pronto too ? Most of those CEOs should tell Congress to stick those TARP funds where the sun don't shine!'.  Comment By Our Highly-Placed Professional  'The writer correctly grasps the extreme feelings on Capital Hill, where lawmakers are happy to put the boot in with as much venom as possible, knowing that it plays well with their voters. And I agree with his (or her) views on the original purpose of the TARP (it was created to buy distressed assets and relieve bank balance sheets), but such is the anger and pain felt by Main Street, who are represented by these investigating committees, that we are never going to see anything sensible emerge from them.  'Oversight' had indeed become 'Harry Hindsight' which, as we all know, always gets it right. And limiting bonuses will clearly result in Wall Street becoming a much more dumbed down and less creative place. Having said all that, what we need now is a period of national unity and a period of calm in the financial markets. The politicians should cut out the points-scoring, and financial markets professionals should knuckle down and get back to making money (without complaint). We had our chance, and we blew it'.  Please use the 'E-Mail' button immediately under the article title to send this item to a friend.
