Use excess funds from rate cuts to pay debt  Consolidating cards can help  IF your credit card still is straining under the financial burden of Christmas spending, there are some steps you can take to get your festive debts under control.  Financial experts, however, warn anyone tempted to take advantage of low home-loan rates to repay credit card debt by redrawing on a mortgage should be careful.  'You'd always rather pay a lower interest rate but if you redraw $5000 or $10,000 on your house loan you don't want to be paying it off over a 25 or 30-year term,' Commonwealth Bank senior financial planner Janet Webber said.  'You need to up the ante and make extra home-loan repayments if you're going to do that.'  Ms Webber said another option for paying off your Christmas debts was using excess funds from falling variable rate home loans and temporarily redirecting that to pay off more expensive debt.  'When that's repaid you should go back to increasing your home loan repayments,' she said.  Ms Webber said people with more than one credit card should consolidate and consider cutting up all other cards. 'Then, try and set a goal to have it repaid within a specific time frame,' she said.  'Sometimes that can be tough - if you have a lot of credit card debt you really have to discipline yourself to repay it.'  Community CPS Australia deputy chief executive Robert Keogh said another option for those carrying a large Christmas credit card debt was to switch it to a personal loan.  'Generally, personal loan interest rates are at much lower levels than credit cards are set at, with the advantage that repayments are set at a particular fixed level and most personal loans are for a fixed term,' he said.  Mr Keogh said the best option was to avoid putting Christmas on credit.  'Essentially that really does come down to someone thinking about next Christmas now and setting up with a budget and gradually setting money aside over the year,' he said.  'If you have set enough aside and stuck to that budget you'll have enough money available and won't get yourself into a situation when that credit card bill comes in.'  Mr Keogh said anyone in serious financial trouble with their credit cards, should talk to their financial institution or card issuer immediately.  'Talk about the situation and you'll find that your financial institution will listen - it's in their interests to listen and assist those people,' he said.  
