Griffith tells home builders it won't affect them much  Congressman Parker Griffith spoke to members of the Huntsville-Madison County Home Builders Association Tuesday morning about how the newly passed $780 billion stimulus package will affect their industry.  For the most part, he said, it won't.  Builders were hoping that a proposed $15,000 homebuyer tax credit would encourage the purchase of many houses they built and are sitting empty, but that provision was taken out of the bill before it was passed.  (An $8,000 tax credit for new homebuyers is included in the package, but it is only for buyers who haven't owned a home for the past three years. They must live in the house for three years or they're obligated to pay back the credit. A person can't make more than $75,000 a year to qualify.)  Griffith, a freshman Democratic congressman from Huntsville, explained that 'an important group in Washington' was afraid that if included in the legislation, the provision would be abused and lead to 'speculative swapping,' an activity he said helped cause the housing and mortgage crisis.  Griffith, who voted against the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, said the package provides only 'theoretical solutions.' The White House released a report Tuesday that states 52,000 jobs in Alabama will be positively 'impacted' by the stimulus package.  But Griffith said what should be done first to improve the seriously ailing economy is to 'make some hard decisions' about financial institutions.  Griffith said the heads of large banks that are failing - such as Citigroup and Bank of America - need to be ousted, as well as the presidents of General Motors and Chrysler. He said those corporations' management structure contributed to the financial meltdown, and the country shouldn't be 'infusing capital' into proven failures.  He said the 5th Congressional District is 'seething with resentment and anger' about taxpayer money being used to pay corporate heads who ran their companies into the ground.  'Fundamentally, we as a country can't max out our credit cards and decide the solution is another credit card,' Griffith said.  Builder Mark Harris, president of the Home Builders Association, said home-building is the 'backbone of the American economy,' and he's grateful that Griffith came to talk to the group.  Local builders constructed numerous homes in preparation for an influx of federal employees from Washington, D.C., whose jobs are moving to Redstone Arsenal because of the Base Realignment and Closure. Those moves haven't happened as quickly as some had hoped - the last ones are scheduled in late 2011 - but Harris said the people will come.  The 'Missile Defense Agency has agreed to buy their houses in D.C. if they don't sell, so that's good,' Harris said.  
