Staring across my snow-filled, frozen backyard while listening to a broadcast of the circus called the Illinois General Assembly impeach a clown named Rod Blagojevich, my mind slipped back to cold mornings milking cows in southern Illinois.  As it did I felt the aching of my half-frozen toes, smelled the earthy, steaming Holsteins in the parlor and saw my father warming his pinkish fingers on a mug of hot coffee.  Mostly, though, I heard Jackie, the farms hired man, pass comment on the cold, the snow, the cows, the days news, my hair, his whiskers, his or my or whomevers whatever.It was a daily routine for Jackie. Hed arrive about 6, make a cup of Folgers instant coffee, then stand in the doorway on my end of the milking parlor and offer brief sonnets of river-bottom wisdom on whatever burr was rubbing him raw that yet-dark day.  The wisdom usually included words, phrases and acts that violated the Second, Fifth and Sixth Commandments. (I never knew him to keep the Third, either.) At five-and-a-half feet tall and a brick short of 150 pounds, he was a little man with big opinions.  Once, when discussing pre-Watergate Richard Nixon, Jackie, the yellowest of yellow-dog Democrats, spit out a string of clever blasphemy that included the words crook, liar and shot.My father, a member of Nixons silent majority, didnt even look up because hed heard Jackies prescriptions six times a week for 25 years.  Curiously, though, once Jackie fired his dawn salvos he rarely offered, nor could he be baited into dispensing, any opinion on anything the rest of the day. His bile simply took 24 hours to build, boil and burst.  During the blistering cold of last week, however, I wondered what the leathery spitfire might have said of the hucksters, buffoons, clowns and jackasses that dominate todays news. It wouldnt have been kind, I reckoned, but it would have been colorful.  For example, what might his take be on the economic jet set meeting at the Swiss mountaintop resort of Davos to chew over this years World Economic Forum topic, Shaping the Post-Crisis World?Jackies riff, I think, would have started with something on the order of Why dont they stay home and pay their (expletive) bills? before moving on to Davos? Aint no farmer going, I tell you, cause farmers dont do (expletive) mountaintops.Elegance. Poetry. Charm.  You and I might have hemmed and hawed to come up with something as lame as, Why would anyone believe anything these shapers of the pre-crisis and present crisis have to say about the post-crisis?  Not Jackie; a simple (Expletive) idiots.Or how about Citigroup, the most bankrupt bank in America, needing to be told by the White House that its bad form (fix it) to take delivery on a $50 million corporate jet while accepting $45 billion in bailout cash from taxpaying janitors, teachers and farmers.I wouldnt have said a thing, Jackie likely would have noted. Then, Im sure, hed have recommended something in a very large caliber for them (expletive).A secretary of the treasury who forgot to pay his taxes and still reached the pinnacle of power? Been you and me, wed never see daylight again, Jackie would have said. Why should anyone follow the law if there aint no law for rich (expletive)?And all from a man who never read a newspaper because he couldnt read or write.Readin and writin doesnt teach you right from wrong, he once said. Some of the smartest people in the world are right stupid.Amen, brother.  Alan Guebert is a freelance agricultural journalist. He can be reached at agcomm@sbcglobal.net or at agcomm, 21673 Lago Drive, Delavan, IL 61734
