EXPORTS bounced 4 per cent in February on soaring gold export prices and a weaker Aussie dollar, widening the trade surplus to $2.1 billion.  Economists had expected the trade surplus to shrink to $700 million from $926 million in January.   Imports slipped 1 per cent, figures released today by the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed.   Gold exports soared 55 per cent in February as nervous investors sought shelter in the safe-haven asset, and was the main reason for the turnaround in total exports.   A weaker Australian dollar also increased the attractiveness of local exports.   In January, exports dropped 5 per cent while imports tumbled 7 per cent as consumers and businesses reined in their spending.   Soaring demand for Australian exports, mainly in China and Japan, has been a major driver of economic growth in the past few years.   The economy contracted in the December quarter for the first time in eight years, as more than half of Australias biggest trading partners moved deeper into recession, eroding demand for coal, base metals, steel and other goods.   As Australia entered its first recession in almost 20 years, world economic forecasters warned the situation was going to get a lot worse.   The Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development this week drastically downgraded its forecast for the world economy to fall by 2.7 per cent in 2009.   At the same time, the World Bank said it expected a contraction of 1.7 per cent, marking the first decline since World War II.   The International Monetary Fund forecast a decline of 0.5-1 per cent. Its even worse for the worlds richest countries, with the OECD expecting a contraction of 4.3 per cent and the World Bank tipping a fall of 3 per cent, along with predictions for unemployment to soar.   The World Bank said it expected global trade to shrink by 6.8 per cent.   The deteriorating outlook has put the Reserve Bank of Australia under increasing pressure to cut rates at its meeting next week.   Data released yesterday showed that retail sales had their steepest fall in more than eight years in February despite massive monetary and fiscal stimulus, which supported the case for another rate cut, some economists said.   However, financial markets this morning pegged back their expectations for a 25-basis-point cut, pricing in an 84 per cent chance, compared with 89 per cent yesterday afternoon, according to Credit Suisse bond traders.   The official cash rate is at a 45-year low of 3.25 per cent after 400 basis points in cuts since September.   The RBA has acknowledged that Australia is likely to contract this year and has left the door open to further rate cuts.   Deputy governor Ric Battellino said on Tuesday that Australia was going through a very substantial decline in economic activity, which would result in a large rise in unemployment.  But he said that Australia would remain one of the best performing economies in the developed world and was well placed to benefit from renewed global economic growth when it came.  Economists said the RBAs decision on interest rates would be a close call, and forecasts range from a cut of 50bp to no move on monetary policy. 
