    Burite wrote:     &amp;amp;lt;quoted text&amp;amp;gt; Hi, do u need morals in a world where &amp;amp;quot;every one&amp;amp;quot; is obsessed with economic survival? refer to Lehman Brothers for more.     Did you mean this?  On September 10, 2008, Lehman announced a loss of $3.9 billion and their intent to sell off a majority stake in their investment-management business, which includes Neuberger Berman.The stock slid 7 percent that day.Lehman, after earlier rejecting questions on the sale of the company, was reportedly searching for a buyer as its stock price dropped another 40 percent on September 11, 2008.  Bankruptcy   Still no buyer for Lehman Brothers&amp;amp;amp;#8206; On September 13, 2008, Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York called a meeting on the future of Lehman, which included the possibility of an emergency liquidation of its assets.Lehman reported that it had been in talks with Bank of America and Barclays for the company&amp;#039;s possible sale. The New York Times reported on September 14, 2008, that Barclays had ended its bid to purchase all or part of Lehman and a deal to rescue the bank from liquidation collapsed. Leaders of major Wall Street banks continued to meet late that day to prevent the bank&amp;#039;s rapid failure. Bank of America&amp;#039;s rumored involvement also appeared to end as federal regulators resisted its request for government involvement in Lehman&amp;#039;s sale. Also on September 14, 2008, The New York Times reported that Lehman would file for bankruptcy protection for its parent company, Lehman Brothers Holdings, while keeping its subsidiaries solvent during the bankruptcy proceedings.A group of Wall Street firms agreed to provide capital and financial assistance for the bank&amp;#039;s orderly liquidation and the Federal Reserve, in turn, agreed to a swap of lower-quality assets in exchange for loans and other assistance from the government. Lehman&amp;#039;s bankruptcy would be the largest failure of an investment bank since Drexel Burnham Lambert collapsed amid fraud allegations 18 years earlier.The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) offered an exceptional trading session on Sunday, September 14, 2008, to allow market participants to offset positions in various derivatives on the condition of a Lehman bankruptcy later that day.  In New York, on September 15, 2008,(that is today) shortly before 1 a.m., Lehman Brothers Holdings announced it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, although its subsidiaries will continue to operate as normal.
