    dujac:      Ian Gary:   it says NOTHING about congress approving this deal   keying on ron paul for information about reality isn&amp;#039;t a good idea  austrian economics is archaic; when markets a left unregulated  they get out of control as we&amp;#039;ve seen, over and over   September 16, 2008  AIG Bailout is Allegedly Over to Congress  We are at a cusp tonight, with a Treasury deal allegedly on the table to provide a $80b bridge loan to doombound insurance company AIG. The deal would apparently include warrants to the government, and heavy incentives to disgorge AIG&amp;#039;s many assets quickly in a kind of low-grade firesale.  The main risks tonight are political, not economic, however.  Congress  is frustrated at feeling like it is playing from behind in this debacle, and in an election year with massive financial commitments being made...   paul.kedrosky.com   AIG to Get $85 Billion Loan, Give Up 80% Stake  &amp;quot;Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke met with  Senate and House leadership  Tuesday night to discuss how to assist AIG, sources said.&amp;quot;   www.cnbc.com    Actually, you are wrong. On numerous counts.  1. Despite your insistence on issues you could not possibly know anything about, I don&amp;#039;t gather all my information, or even most of if, from Paul. You have accused others of this, and engage in the ad hominem that addresses correlation as causation.  You ASSUME people get all their info from Paul because they support him, rather than the very real possibility that they support him for espousing the views they already had.  2. Austrian economists PREDICTED this exact scenario. Paul, who you continually vilify, was constantly sounding with great specificity, the dangers not of lack of regulation, as you idiotically blame, but rather the governments supporting and underwriting of loans, distorting their risk and value.  3. In the Fed. thread I made, Jerrod answered my question calmly and effectively. I was looking for an answer, and he gave it to me. The reality is the federal reserve didnt &amp;quot;give away&amp;quot; any money. They loaned it. And while we can debate the merits and technicalities, the TRUTH is that Congress DID NOT approve that loan, as you have contended. They didn&amp;#039;t need to.  So for someone who claims to be so knowledgeable and educated, you certainly came out looking like an uneducated fool, by continuing to insist that Congress had to, and did, approve this deal.
