 Bailout temptations      A crisis can produce all sorts of reactions, some healthy and some not. Last week&amp;#039;s Wall Street meltdown spurred a response from the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve targeted to the real threat, which was an accelerating financial panic that would derail the U.S. economy. But now Congress gets its say, and the impulse there is quite different: using the opportunity to demand all sorts of things that were out of reach before.      The bailout package put together by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke, though regrettably necessary, is worrisome enough on its own, because it would put the government on the hook for up to $700 billion in bad loans. The worst-case scenario is a huge new obligation on taxpayers of today and tomorrow. The best case is that once the current hysteria passes, those loans will turn out to be worth enough that the Treasury can get the lion&amp;#039;s share of the money back.       In any case, the cost is probably less than Americans would pay if the credit marks froze up indefinitely, as they threatened to do last week.  And the tough terms imposed on insurance giant AIG suggest that Paulson will be anything but a pushover in negotiations over the price to be paid for the toxic paper. A firm stance is the only way to keep the load on taxpayers within tolerable limits.      But containing the cost of this effort does not seem to be foremost among the goals of many people in Congress. There, the urge is not to do only what is strictly necessary but everything that is possible. Among the more politically appealing extras that have been proposed are extra help for floundering homeowners and punishment for executives in the form of curbs on their compensation. John McCain and Barack Obama have also joined the chorus.      Either step would be a mistake. Forcing lenders to modify existing mortgages would hurt future home buyers because it would increase the risk of making such loans, and financial institutions would protect themselves by raising the interest rates they charge to all of us. It&amp;#039;s hard to envision law that would strip CEOs of earnings they were promised by contract. Holding a CEO responsible for poor performance is a job for the board of directors. And angry shareholders will be watching them.      That&amp;#039;s not to say Congress is wrong to put any conditions on its cooperation. One of the most troublesome features of the bill offered by the administration is a provision exempting the Treasury secretary&amp;#039;s decisions from review &amp;amp;quot;by any court of law or any administrative agency.&amp;amp;quot; The point is to facilitate the rapid decision-making needed in a volatile market, which the threat of multiple lawsuits wouldn&amp;#039;t help. But there&amp;#039;s no reason Paulson and his successors shouldn&amp;#039;t be answerable to a new oversight body set up to protect the public.      In the end, though, Congress ought to concentrate on letting the Fed and Treasury get on with a job that they have handled well so far. Despite charges that the deal favors Wall Street over Main Street, it&amp;#039;s ordinary people who stand to lose the most from recent upheavals in the financial sector. Paulson and Bernanke were justifiably fearful of a collapse that would have spread throughout the broader economy, bankrupting Main Street companies and throwing their employees out of work.      The danger that loomed so large last week has subsided, but it has not disappeared. That&amp;#039;s a good reason for Congress to ignore election-year temptations and keep its eyes on the prize.       Culled from the ChicagoTribune. 
