Hi, Foot. I have a strong hunch that after a brief price drop this morning, everything will come back strong. Especially the banks, which control the "universe." Speaking of the banks, self-evident.org posted a strongly-worded response yesterday to what's happening in that sector. Two ====================== Outrage does not even come close The stocks of all of the major banks are up 10-20% today. Why? CNBC: Bad bank plan gaining momentum The Obama administration is close to deciding on a plan to purchase bador non-performing and illiquidassets from banks, according to industy sources. The plan could be announced early next week. So Paulson was right all along, I suppose. As always with this proposal, the all-important question is how much the taxpayers will pay for the garbage. The so-called bad bank plan, would address the key problem of how to price the assets by using a model-pricing mechanism. The model would take account of the governments ability to hold onto assets, even to maturity, and pay for the them with cheap funding. Result: the government might end up paying more than current market prices for the securities. In other words, they will use a model (as opposed to, say, a market) which assumes that the mortgages will actually pay through to maturity, then use the governments long-term borrowing rate of 2.5% as the discount rate to calculate a present value. (Aside: If rates try to rise, the Fed will purchase longer-dated Treasuries to force them back down. See if you can figure out where we are heading.) So, the people who made loans to the banks, voluntarily taking on the risk of default, will be made whole at taxpayer expense. The shareholders, who nominally took on even more risk, will reap the profits at taxpayer expense. Sure, the Obama Administration will slap a few executives on the wrist and block the purchase of a private jet or two, because those are things the average person might actually notice and understand. But in the big picture, this is a straight transfer of wealth from you and your descendants to our largest financial institutions. Did the executives at these banks get wind of this ahead of time? Well, lets see. Bank of America executives have been purchasing millions of dollars of their own stock in the past two weeks. Jamie Dimon purchased $11.5 million of JPMorgan stock a week and a half ago. So I would have to say yes. Behold your tax dollars at work. On the bright side, an entire generation of young Americans will now see that there is no hope, and nothing ever changes. If they read anything beyond their own Facebook pages, that is.
