 http://www.business24-7.ae/articles/2009/4/pages/21042009/04222009_4884e3b5674b4200a5a913367fc77f8a.aspx     Dragon Oil denies speculations of Enoc selling its stake in the firm      (GETTY IMAGES)     By Karen Remo-Listana  on Wednesday, April 22, 2009  A top official from Dubai-headquartered Dragon Oil has denied speculations that Enoc &#150; its majority shareholder &#150; is planning to sell some of its stakes.    "I am not aware of any move by Enoc to dispose of its stake," Abdul Jaleel Khalifa, CEO and Executive Director of Dragon Oil, told Emirates Business. "Indeed, we are proud of having Enoc as a majority shareholder that enables us to leverage the strong relationship between the UAE and Turkmenistan. Enoc's support has played a key role in positioning Dragon Oil in where it is today."    He said the company is planning to adopt a Bermuda incorporation this year, Dragon Oil would remain headquartered in Dubai.    "The reasons for being based here is it is relatively close to our main asset, which is located offshore the western coast of Turkmenistan in the Cheleken Contract Area," he said. "In addition, Dubai is considered to be an oil and gas production industry hub within the Middle East, which enables us to source skilled staff and communicate efficiently with our suppliers and contractors. We also benefit from our close proximity to Enoc, which is Dragon Oil's major shareholder, owning 52 per cent of the company."    There has been some speculation that Dragon Oil's decision to move to a Bermudan incorporation is a pre-cursor to Enoc's plans of divesting some shares.     Analysts at Bank of America earlier said that the Government of Dubai may "sell its stake in Dragon but only at a premium."     Dragon Oil had $867million (Dh3,184m) in cash at the end of last year and plans to use it for investment and possible acquisitions this year. It plans to boost production by 15 per cent this year and has earmarked $600m for infrastructure development and drilling. Currently Dragon Oil has dual primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and the Irish Stock Exchange. Following the proposed corporate restructuring, the new company's primary listing will be on the London Stock Exchange with a secondary listing on the Irish Stock Exchange. If approved, the proposed corporate restructuring and listing of Dragon Oil is slated for completion late this year.     "Dragon Oil no longer has any commercial ties in Ireland with its area of operations in Turkmenistan, its headquarters in Dubai and approximately 96 per cent of its shareholders based outside of Ireland," Khalifa said.     "We have been considering a corporate restructuring for some time and we came to the conclusion that it made good business sense to put in place a Bermuda-incorporated company as the new ultimate holding company of the Group. This decision is the next step for Dragon Oil since it will afford us great flexibility as we seek to develop the asset portfolio and our geographic footprint," he said     
