Top Sells    Sovereign Bancorp/Banco Santander    During the quarter, Banco Santander, the Spanish bank that had established a significant holding of Sovereign Bancorp stock in 2008, completed the acquisition of Sovereign, a US bank holding company with an excellent franchise in the Northeast area of the United States. All of the Santander shares received for Sovereign were sold. The banking sector in the United States still faces challenges, particularly in construction lending. Meanwhile, Spain and Latin America face similar challenges. Banks that are better insulated from potential risks are preferred holdings.     Maruichi Steel Tube    This Japanese company is exposed to the deterioration of the Japanese economy as well as the worldwide decline in oil field activity. These considerations in addition to the evaluation of the company&#146;s financial strength led to the decision to substantially reduce the size of this holding.    Continental AG    Continental is a German manufacturer of tyres, electronic stabilization equipment for cars, and other auto components. The world automobile industry is facing its worst downturn since the Great Depression and Continental is highly dependent on its prospects. In addition, the company took on a great deal of debt to finance a big acquisition in 2008. Finally, another large German company has acquired virtual control of the company and has stock that it must sell by contractual agreement. This overhang in concert with the above mentioned challenges led to the decision to eliminate this holding.     Iino Kaiun Kaishi    Iino Kaiun is a Japanese shipping company. The decline in world trade has posed special challenges to all companies that are dependent on a strong trade environment. The overall portfolio had substantial exposure to trade flows and it was deemed prudent to reduce the exposure by trimming the holding of Iino Kaiun.    Konecranes    Konecranes is a Finnish producer of cranes for ports and other materials handling equipment. The company is similarly exposed to world trade; consequently, this holding was also reduced.     sorry chaps, I wont try that again...phew !     
