February 12, 2009, 11:32 am General Electric Gives Shareholders More Power Posted by Deal Journal The Wall Street Journals Joann S. Lublin and Paul Glader send Deal Journal this dispatch: General Electric Co. directors last week made it easier for investors to call a special meeting of shareholders  and other companies are under pressure to follow suit. Under GEs new rule, disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Wednesday, owners of 25% of its shares can request a special meeting, down from 40% under the old rule. Investors typically call special meetings to express displeasure with management, by ousting board members or forcing a vote on a potential merger, for example. The change came after activist shareholders John Chevedden and William Steiner submitted a resolution to GE urging that the threshold be lowered to 10%. GE persuaded the SEC to exclude the proposal from the proxy statement for its April 22 annual meeting, Mr. Chevedden says. He and Mr. Steiner submitted an amended version of their proposal to the SEC on Sunday. Similar resolutions seeking to remove hurdles for shareholders to call a special meeting have been submitted at 62 companies this year, according to proxy adviser RiskMetrics Group Inc. Mr. Chevedden says shareholders will get to vote on the issue for at least nine companies, including Home Depot Inc., Verizon Communications Inc. and Bank of America Corp. Such measures reached a vote at 25 companies during 2008, winning an average of 46.6% of votes cast, according to RiskMetrics. A 2007 analysis by RiskMetrics found that about 55% of 1,464 companies dont allow shareholders to hold a special meeting. (That includes five concerns where such meetings can occur if requested by holders of 100% of the shares.) Among the companies that do permit investors to call special meetings, the average holding required is 33% of shares. GE spokesman Russell Wilkerson said directors changed the threshold following its annual corporate-governance review, which included checks of other companies policies. Its bringing this particular policy more up to date with current standards, he said. When asked if that leaves the company vulnerable to activist investors, Mr. Wilkerson said the 25% threshold is still a pretty big number, with shares valued at roughly $30 billion based on GEs current stock price. For his part, Mr. Chevedden called GEs move a step in the right direction. He speculated that GE directors acted to head off a shareholder vote on his amended resolution. http://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2009/02/12/general-electric-gives-shareholders-more-power/
