 - An accounts officer of the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) who included the names of his relatives in the authority's payroll, has found himself on the wrong side of the law. Sergeant Ahenkora Akwasi Afrifah, prosecuting, told the court that the accused persons were Godwin Wonder, a businessman, Christian Dzamede, a trader and Mr Kofi Nudokpo Tordzagbo, an accounts officer of the GHA, while the complainant is the manager of the Barclays Bank Limited at the Trade Fair branch at La. He said the three accused persons belong to the same family at Akatsi in the Volta Region. Sergeant Afrifah said Wonder and Dzamede went to the Barclays Bank, Trade Fair branch at La with photocopies of their voters ID cards to open an account, but the complainant refused to open the account for them and asked them to bring the original copies of the Voters ID cards. The prosecutor said on June 30, this year, Wonder and Dzamede went to the same bank with the original copies of their voters ID cards with their pictures bearing the names of one Sampson Fiansah and Andrews Vanderpuye. Wonder and Dzamede submitted a hand-written letter, purported to have come from one Ignatius Sefordzi, a staff of Barclays Bank head office, introducing them as new employees of the GHA. He said the complainant, after examining their ID cards, suspected them to be fake cards and immediately reported them to the policeman on duty. The two accused persons were sent to the police station and a search was conducted on them. The prosecutor said two blank cheques, bearing the names of one Addison Aikings, Christian Dzamede and other social security forms were found on the two accused persons. During investigation, it came to light that the three accused persons had cashed over GH3,800 from an account bearing the name Christian Dzamede at the Barclays Bank, Makola Branch in May 2008. Upon persistent interrogation, Wonder and Dzamede mentioned Mr Tordzagbo's name that he is an accountant with GHA, and he had added their names to their pay roll and after every transaction, they paid the money into Christian's account and both of them, shared the booty. The court, presided over by Ms Florence Otu, has remanded the accused persons in custody. 
