 At Loch Lomond A PAST winner at Loch Lomond 11 years ago, Lee Westwood reasoned yesterday he's a more complete player today than he was in the Nineties. Eager to add a second Barclays Scottish Open title to his CV, the Englishman, who finished third behind Tiger Woods and Rocco Mediate at last month's US Open, insisted he's comfortable with the increased level of expectation which now surrounds him before big events. Third favourite at 14/1 to win a second title at Loch Lomond and the 16/1 fourth favourite to land his first major at Birkdale next week, Westwood can't see a downside in competing at an event of the calibre of the 3 million Scottish Open the week before the only major held outside America.'I want to do well this week and don't feel any concerns about doing that the week before the Open,' he said. 'In fact, it would be another massive confidence boost. I've won tournaments back to back before and feel as if I can do it again. Anyway, it's something I'd be glad to have to worry about on Sunday night.'Married to a Scot, Laurae, and with Alastair McLean, Colin Montgomerie's former caddie, on the bag, the Worksop golfer is an enthusiastic supporter of the Scottish Open. 'The Scottish Open is rated very highly by the players and Loch Lomond is in my top three favourite golf courses,' he said. 'There's no doubt in my mind it's the best inland course in Britain.'I may be fairly biased (as a past champion] but you only have to look at the strength of fields they get here every year to appreciate how good it is. This is the week before a major championship when a lot of people are warming up for the Open and a links golf test. But they still attract a tremendous field.'I played at Birkdale last week, so I know what to expect at the Open. I'm happy to be here and to treat this event like the big tournament it is. I couldn't remember Birkdale from the last time, so I couldn't really comment on the changes. All that I would say about the 17th green (narrow and sloping] is that it's a bit out of character.'Yes, I think there's more expectation on my shoulders going into these big events because of how I played at the US Open, but I don't mind that. It gives me confidence.'I'm ready to take that extra step in the majors because there really isn't much of an extra step to take. I was only a shot away from getting into the play-off at Torrey Pines and possibly winning the thing outright. I take a positive from that, and came home full of confidence and looking forward to the next tournament. I want to get into contention again as soon as possible.'I've played well here in the past on a number of occasions. Of course, I won here in 1998 but I've also been there or thereabouts and teed up (on Sunday] in the last three groups.'I'm probably a better player now than I was 11 years ago when I won. I'm a bit older and maybe wiser. I've got more experience now. I was young and fearless, I suppose, in 1998. Now I'm a better player overall , though I felt I managed my game pretty well ten years ago.'There haven't been too many changes here over the years. It's always been pretty soft and it's the kind of course where, if you play well, it's possible to shoot 63. On the other hand, if you don't play well, the course can penalise you.'A guest at Colin and Gaynor Montgomerie's wedding at Loch Lomond this year, Westwood will again be in the Scot's company over the first two days of the tournament. Pablo Larrazabal, the winner of the French Open whose name escaped the big Scot in Paris, will get the chance to formally introduce himself as the third member of this grouping which starts from the tenth at 8am tomorrow.Among the other early groups on the tenth which will attract deep galleries is the pairing of home hope Alastair Forsyth with defending champion Gregory Havret and world No 3 Adam Scott.Among the afternoon starters on the first, world No 2 Phil Mickelson will have the young Englishmen, Oliver Wilson and Ross Fisher, winner of the European Open on Sunday, as company at 1.20pm.Ten minutes earlier from the same tee brings the three ball together of former champion Ernie Els with Miguel Angel Jimenez and Graeme McDowell. At 1pm, Glasgow's Marc Warren is in the same group as Andres Romero and Henrik Stenson. Mickelson jets in to rescue Birkdale dateWHEN Phil Mickelson was handed an opportunity to play a practice round at Royal Birkdale earlier this week, a group of ten golfers who had won a competition to enjoy a coaching clinic and lunch with the world No 2 at Loch Lomond feared their date with the left-hander would be put on hold.However, when Mickelson, who tees up in the Barclays Scottish Open tomorrow, discovered the time he was due to spend with the golfers couldn't be changed, he dispatched his new Gulfstream jet to Loch Lomond to pick up the amateurs and fly them from Glasgow Airport to Liverpool.'I'd been given a great opportunity to test Birkdale prior to the Open, but there was no way I was going to let these customers down,' said Mickelson who was supporting the competition organised by Callaway golf . 'So I spoke to Jeff Dodds at Callaway over the weekend and came up with a plan that suited everyone. I got to play Birkdale and these winners got to fly on my jet and meet me at Birkdale and see the Open venue a week before the event. They all seemed to have a great time.'The golfers from across Europe were given the VIP treatment at Glasgow's private aviation terminal before boarding the 14-seater jet which Mickelson had flown in for the first time when he made the transatlantic crossing from San Diego, California.Sue Page, Callaway golf's PR, added: 'Phil was absolutely fantastic. When he learned the date of the clinic could not be changed, he came up with a Plan B within an hour. He said: 'I have my plane here 
