 Before a job applicant at Nationwide Auto Insurance even sees or speaks to a human being at the company, the candidate must pass two rounds of online tests. They're not the kind you can study for. One is a personality test that weeds out candidates who don't share the same values as the insurance company. The other asks candidates situational questions like how they would deal with an irate customer or their strategies for cooperating with co-workers.Employers across industries are implementing this online vetting process in an effort to bring only the most qualified prospects into a face-to-face job interview. Companies that use these online tests say they're not perfect indicators of a candidate's success but they cut down the amount of time wasted on those who are not the right match for the job. In most scenarios, applicants send in their rsums online and are then directed to the test. The rsums of those that do well move along to the next vetting process; those that don't are discarded. 'These online assessments are typically culture-fit and motivational tests,' says Scott Erker, an organizational psychologist and test developer at the talent management firm Development Dimensions International. For instance, one of Erker's test questions tries to gauge a job candidate's judgment. The question describes a scenario in which a co-worker asks so many questions it's hard for the candidate to get his own work done. After describing the circumstances, the test then asks: What's the best course of action in this scenario? The answer, says, Erker, depends on the company. Some firms encourage teamwork while others want their employees to do their own jobs the best they can. Some questions seem like common sense. One Erker-designed question asks candidates to rate how often they ignored past supervisors' instructions; another asks how often they followed work rules and procedures in past jobs.It seems easy to answer these questions based on what you think the employer wants, even if you don't agree with the answer. Erker urges candidates to answer honestly. A job seeker who lies on these questions might wind up working for a company he's mismatched for. 'You might find yourself in a job incompatible to your personality type and values,' he says. 'The more honest you are with these types of tests, the better off you are in the long run.' And so are the employers. Nationwide implemented the online tests in February as a requirement for applicants in all positions. The process hasn't been in place long enough to collect data on whether it's reduced employee turnover or their success rate, but hiring managers say the candidates coming in to interviews are a better fit. 'We still bring in the same number of job applicants, but we believe we have more of the right kind of talent,' says Rocky Parker, Nationwide's associate vice president of talent acquisition. 'They're people with a better understanding of what Nationwide is.' Companies utilize test results differently. The Blood Center of Iowa gives all job applicants--everyone from housekeepers to the CEO--a personality and skills test. At Crowder Construction Company in Charlotte, N.C., only those applying for executive-level positions take the tests. At the hotel company Marriott International (nyse: MAR - news - people ), only people applying for jobs in customer service and hospitality take the assessments. The company is in the process of designing another test for management positions. Another benefit, say users, is the test results can be used to guide managers in dealing with topics that need further discussion during the face-to-face job interview. For example, if a candidate's test score reveals him to be weak in one area, the manager can drill down on that topic during the job interview to see how much of a deficiency exists. That's how Kris Huston, human resources director at the Blood Center of Iowa, uses online tests. Since following procedure is integral to patient safety, Huston needs to hire nurses and technicians who demonstrate the ability to follow the organization's regulations.If a candidate doesn't score well on test questions that have to do with following the rules but does well in all other areas, she still brings the person in for an interview. Huston uses that meeting as a time to dig deeper to see if those issues will be a problem. 'I might ask them an open-ended question about how they [would] verify they were correctly completing a task at work,' says Huston, who has administered online skills tests for seven years. 'If you've worked as an RN for 20 years at our local hospital, I think that you're experienced in fulfilling an organization's expectations, regardless of your personality test score.' One expert worries that these tests have too much power in deciding whether someone should be hired. Ideally, they should be used as a guide. 'If a candidate fails the test, the companies often won't take the time to interview them,' says Jo Prabhu, CEO of International Services Group, which administers tests. That, she says, could cause them to miss a great candidate.
