 DAPPER trainer Brian Wakefield yesterday inspected stables in Sydney but was quick to answer speculation he might be shifting from Brisbane.Wakefield, 33, is an emerging trainer in Queensland but said he was not ready to move to Sydney with his wife Natalie and two children Brian, 9 and Erin, 5. 'I am thinking about taking Frosty to Sydney in the next few weeks if I can find the right race for him,' Wakefield said. 'I wanted to have a look at a few stables around Sydney and see what might suit him best.' Wakefield is a snappy dresser and looks like someone from a 1940s film set at the races.He reminds one of the old trainers, and it is fair to say only Jim Atkins at 92 is in his class in the fashion stakes. 'Mean business, look business was the way I was taught. You always have to look the part,' Wakefield said. The son of former jockey and trainer Brian Wakefield, Brian Jr took out his licence in 2000 and has been steadily building his client base. 'I always wanted to be a jockey but by the time I turned 15 it was obvious I was going to get too big,' he said. Wakefield has six horses engaged at Doomben tomorrow and gives the impression he has targeted races after the winter carnival for his team of 30 horses.Poiym, Barclays, Davion, Cognisant, National Soldier and Pagan County will keep him busy running to and from the saddling stalls.Poiym is a castoff from the Dan Bougoure stable who is barely above pony height (14.2 hands) and a puny 415kg.Poiym is the smallest horse in the stable but she has been a remarkably consistent performer in open handicaps. 'I have won two races with her and she has been placed in a few but she always puts in,' Wakefield said. 'If she was just another hand higher there is no telling where she might have ended up. 'I have a horse named King Brahms which goes to scale at 640kg and dwarfs her.' The owners of Poiym have decided to send her to stud this spring but Wakefield said they might continue to race her. 'Sometimes mares race a bit better when they get in foal,' he said. Share this article  
