  June 1, 2008, will go down in infamy as the day that the boat sank. Sunday afternoon, after church, a couple of friends and my wife and I took a leisurely boat ride on Lake Erie. We docked at an on-the-water restaurant for lunch that we have visited many times. As we were finishing up lunch, someone yelled, a freighter just hit a boat.Having one of the eight pleasure boats docked at the restaurant, we had more than a casual interest. As we approached the dock, we could see the Beverly II, mortally wounded; take her last gasp before succumbing to the depths of the Cuyahoga River.A 620-foot Great Lakes freighter, ironically named the Cuyahoga had just rammed head-on into our beloved boat of 17 years. Our range of emotions went from panic  what can we do to save her? Then next to anger  what in the heck could that captain have been thinking or drinking? To relief  thank God that no one was hurt. And finally to resignation  weve lost her, what do we do next?Life comes at you fastIn less than a minute, we went from yacht cruisers to boatless people looking for a ride. The Nationwide Insurance commercial says it all, Sometimes, life comes at you fast. Every day, lives are changed by normal tragedies such as: fire, flood, accidents, theft, injury, illness and even death. Each circumstance brings with it the potential for a second tragedy - a financial catastrophe. Besides being blessed and lucky, successfully surviving a tragedy often depends on two major factors.Being preparedIt is impossible to prepare for every type of emergency that might affect you and your family. However, it is possible to create an atmosphere within your family, where family members are able to respond quickly and confidently. Developing a Family Emergency Plan provides a basic framework for the family to work with during an emergency. Examples of what a plan would include are: Discussion of the major risks to your home and community; for example, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, fire, etc. Determining the safest places in your home in case of an emergency. Determining the best escape routes from your home during an emergency. Choosing a common contact outside of the immediate area if the family is separated. Emergency water, food, flashlights, first aid supplies, etc. First aid and CPR training.Two Web sites that can provide additional information on Family Emergency Planning are: www.redcross.org and www.fema.gov.Adequate insuranceAn adequate insurance plan should cover nearly all catastrophic losses that may occur without spending money on coverage and extras that are not needed. Some of the major areas where most families need coverage are: Disability income insurance is paycheck protection against disabling illness or injury that could render the breadwinner incapable of working. Life insurance is needed to replace the financial support that a breadwinner provides for dependents and family. Health Insurance in needed to provide coverage for illness or injury that could deplete the familys assets and destroy financial security. Property and casualty insurance would include replacement coverage of the home and its contents, auto insurance and owners liability coverage. Boat insurance is a specialty area in property and casualty insurance.It is important to review your insurance coverage with your insurance professional regularly to assure that you are adequately managing your risk and effectively utilizing your insurance dollars.Although the Beverly II is history, we do have the confidence of being prepared for most of the emergencies that we could anticipate on the water. Additionally, we have adequate insurance to cover most anticipated financial losses.Sometimes life can come at you fast, but being prepared and having adequate insurance can help you and your family successfully survive.Michael G. Shinn, Certified Financial Planner, registered representative and advisory associate of and securities and investment advisory services offered through Financial Network Investment Corp., member SIPC. Visit www.shinnfinancial.com for more information or to send your comments or questions to shinnm@financialnetwork.com.
