        Surprise, surprise! Probably need more cash to bay bonuses   Aid to Fannie, Freddie May Top Expectations Firms&amp;#039; Health Has Worsened During Crisis WaPo By Zachary A. Goldfarb Friday, November 14, 2008; A01  The first of the Bush administration&amp;#039;s major financial takeovers, the seizure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is poised to get more expensive and some analysts are warning that it may ultimately cost more than the government has suggested.  Mounting troubles in the financial and housing markets have further undermined the health of the companies in the months since the government seized them in September, making it likely the Treasury will be required to pump billions of dollars into the mortgage-finance giants.  Though not a cent has been spent, some analysts are warning the tab could exceed the $200 billion that the government set aside for capital infusions into the two companies  Under the government&amp;#039;s agreement with the companies, the Treasury is required to inject money in any quarter when the companies&amp;#039; liabilities exceed their assets, up to $100 billion for each firm  &amp;amp;quot;Depending on what happens with housing, you could see scenarios where the $100 billion comes into the question,&amp;amp;quot; said Rajiv Setia, an analyst with Barclays Capital. He said McLean-based Freddie Mac may need $40 billion by the end of the year.  On Monday, District-based Fannie Mae reported a whopping $29 billion loss, bringing it close to triggering a government cash injection. Most of that loss was because the company wrote down the value of tax credits it is unlikely to use  Many analysts consider Freddie Mac to be in worse financial shape and, if it makes the same decision as Fannie Mae regarding tax credits, would report today that it owes billions more in obligations than it has in assets, triggering a government injection of cash.  In addition to pledging capital, the government has offered the companies an unlimited line of credit.  In return for these backstops, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac each agreed to give the Treasury $1 billion in preferred stock and pay a $100 million a year as a dividend. The companies&amp;#039; boards also turned over control of the firms to the Federal Housing Finance Agency  Fannie Mae said this week that home prices are about halfway through their decline. The firm said prices are down 10 percent from their peak in 2006 and likely to fall as much as 19 percent before stabilizing.  There is no certainty that losses will continue to mount at the firms. If the government&amp;#039;s efforts to stimulate the economy succeed and the housing market stabilizes, the companies may require little public money  The companies could also be put in a more difficult position because the government is pushing them to keep buying mortgages in a weakening economy. The goal is for the firms to help push down mortgage rates by flooding the market with money, which should help put a bottom under housing prices. But that may force them to purchase mortgages given to buyers with declining economic prospects, including possible job losses.  &amp;amp;quot;They&amp;#039;re going to be insuring or buying mortgages that nobody in the private sector wants,&amp;amp;quot; said Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital. &amp;amp;quot;The only people who would loan money to Americans right now is the government. Nobody would else do it.&amp;amp;quot;  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac&amp;#039;s regulator says they are buying only high-quality mortgages.  Finally, the government itself has taken steps that make it more likely Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will need its cash. The government has introduced several programs to protect debt issued by other institutions, such as banks. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac lack this explicit federal guarantee and that has made their debt comparatively less attractive to investors, increasing what the companies have to pay to raise capital in private markets.  As a result, some analysts are concerned that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may run out of funding  
