Commuters - Fuel prices have soared, but business travellers show little sign of cutting back on air travel. Stuart Derrick reports.GlasgowDomestic passengers per annum: 4.6m% travelling on business: 25%Ad sites: JCDecaux provides a mix of six, 48 and 96-sheet opportunities. The Glasgow Welcome site is a 12m x 2.6m panel on the entrance roundabout that is seen by all arrivals and departures - RBS is an advertiser.George Best Belfast CityDomestic passengers per annum: 2.1m% travelling on business: 60%Ad sites: Primair Sites offers backlit panels throughout the terminal and exterior panels positioned to maximise visibility to airport traffic. Its 96-sheets are positioned to make an impact on airport traffic and passengers on the Belfast-Bangor railway line. In the main concourse, advertisers can use displays for promotional activity.ManchesterDomestic passengers per annum: 3.2m% travelling on business: 47%Ad sites: Eye Corp has spent 3m creating new ad opportunities at Manchester and five other airports. Digital Eyelite networks target flyers at key approach routes and were used for a strategic campaign by MasterCard for the Champions League Final. Large format landscape digital sites are located at the entrance to passport control in Terminals 1 and 3.BristolDomestic passengers per annum: 1.3m% travelling on business: 37%Ad sites: Airport Partners' internal sites include Euroboxes, four and six-sheets, wall wraps and promo stands. There is one external site - a bespoke welcome site comprising three banners - and 48-sheets are planned by the end of the year. Advertisers include Holiday Inn and EasyJet.HeathrowDomestic passengers per annum: 5.8m% travelling on business: 31%Ad sites: JCDecaux's portfolio includes six, 48 and 96-sheets, plus a 3- D central landmark site. Terminal 5 has created new opportunities, including a 63-screen Heathrow Express digital network. Vodafone has booked the baggage reclaim and Express networks for a year-long campaign, Visa has the Global Gateways departure area, while Samsung has the Wayfinding Beacons on a nine-month holding.London CityDomestic passengers per annum: 699,755% travelling on business: 75%Ad sites: London City Airport owns its own media, including terminal glass doors, the DLR walkway, its iconic lift shaft and British Airways' 'Big Ben' clock tower at the terminal front. In August, it launched 12 46-inch digital screens in the departure lounge. Clients include Allianz and Barclays.Leeds BradfordDomestic passengers per annum: 632,890% travelling on business: 37%Ad sites: Airport Partners handles internal four and six-sheets, light boxes, wall wraps and promo stands. Outside media spans four, six, 48 and 96-sheets, and light boxes. Advertisers include Yorkshire Bank and Bmi.Birmingham InternationalDomestic passengers per annum: 1.5m% travelling on business: 22%Ad sites: Clear Channel Outdoor offers interior and exterior six, 48 and 96-sheets, glass branding, special builds, wall wraps, ceiling banners, lamppost banners, column wraps, door sponsorship and Sky Rail sponsorship. Clients include Bmibaby, Volvo, Credit Suisse, Sky and Parceline.Newcastle InternationalDomestic passengers per annum: 1.7m% travelling on business: 25%Ad sites: Airport Partners-handled sites, which consist largely of backlit lightboxes. Recent advertisers including Volvo for its luxury S80 model, and the RAF, which is running a recruitment campaign. Since April, six exterior 48-sheets have been available.EdinburghDomestic passengers per annum: 5.6m% travelling on business: 38%Ad sites: JCDecaux's six-sheets are located in and outside the airport. Advertisers in Scotland's financial hub include Artemis, Blackrock and Aegon. For greater presence, the front illuminated car park wrap provides a 11m x 12m panel that has been used by advertisers such as RBS. Digital diplays are located throughout the terminal.
