Peter Newport, director of the CBA, said: 'During the last week, Geert Dancet, ECHA's executive director, has made public statements expressing concern about the potential under-funding of his organisation 'He fears that the current level of pre-registrations may not result in actual fee income for ECHA This article was originally published on  on 2 Jun 2008 at 8.00am (UK) 'This is an unacceptable situation from the industry's point of view.' ECHA is funded by the European Commission (30 per cent) and fee income from industry (70 per cent). Compensating for any under funding implies either a higher contribution from the European Commission and/or higher fees being charged to industry. 'In October and December last year, CBA, along with other industry bodies, warned that ECHA's fees, which had increased by 200 per cent to 500 per cent since they were first announced, had reached a level where they would inflict real damage on the industry's competitiveness. 'Part of this problem arose because it was never clear what assumptions ECHA had used in order to create its budget. 'At the time, CBA's calls for greater budget transparency were ignored. 'If ECHA's sole concern is that higher than expected levels of pre-registrations may not translate into fee income, it should adopt a more pragmatic approach. 'There were always bound to be companies that would consider it to be in their strategic and commercial interests to engage in speculative pre-registrations. 'The fact that this may have introduced an unexpected level of uncertainty into ECHA's budget planning is not guaranteed to generate a great deal of sympathy from industry, which has to live with continuous levels of uncertainty in relation to its revenue stream. 'Industry is ECHA's major paymaster and it deserves to be treated as such. 'If the agency's concerns about its funding levels are based on verifiable data, then it should initiate discussions with industry organisations without delay. 'Greater transparency in relation to ECHA's budget has now become a priority issue.'. " : contact details and other news "  "  "  
