She's a money markets trader at ABSA Capital, and trades billions of rands on money markets each day.What is amazing is that Nicolene is a chemical engineering graduate who decided to pursue a career in the field of investment banking, and she managed this in just under two years.'Chemical engineering gave me the analytical skills I needed for investment banking. While I was working for SAB Miller, who awarded me a chemical engineering bursary, I realised my passion for business and thats when I decided to pursue it. So, moving to ABSA Capital was a calculated move for me,' she recalls. 'I looked at the company's vision growth plans and I could see myself making a great contribution here. They had a graduate programme and we were sent to Barclays Capital in London to train as investment bankers.'She says female representation is still minimal in this field because the environment is quite aggressive.'Although this makes it less attractive to women, I also think not many women know much about this field of work. My work involves trading multibillion rand interest rate derivatives, and it's a second-to-second job because anything can happen in one second. It can be really stressful at times, but the great thing about the South African stock markets is that they open from 8am till 5pm. So, while the job is demanding, we get to go home and relax at the end of the day. It creates a nice work-life balance which every worker needs,' she says.However, the world of investment banking is not the be all and end all for Nicolene, who has future plans of branching into the private sector.'This is the best time for women to venture into these kinds of careers because there is so much opportunity. I started with a degree and I received training and a wonderful career. For me, working with guys is great. I enjoy every moment of it because they tiptoe around me, which they would not do if I were male. Some of them are impressed to see a women working with them and matching their skills.'Is female representation minimal in your profession too? Share your story in the comment box below.
