Thousands of pensioners 'to lose out' in benefits back-payment rule change A man who fraudulently claimed more than 22,000 in housing benefit has been jailed for 26 weeks. Avni Hondus pleaded not guilty to falsely claiming housing benefit, arguing that was unaware that he had to declare his full financial circumstances to the council when applying for housing benefit between 26th March 2001 to 3rd July 2006. But an investigation by the council's fraud team discovered he had several undeclared bank accounts with Barclays Bank, which contained savings of up to 28,000. Sentencing the 53-year-old at City of Westminster Magistrates Court, District Judge Mike Snow, said: 'You sought refuge in this country and then fiddled the British tax payer out of 22,000. 'I have no doubt it was a corrupt claim from the start and because of people like you the claims of genuine benefit claimants are tarnished.' Hondus, of Delamere Terrace, Westbourne Green was also ordered to pay back more than 19,000 in full within 56 days. Hondus was interviewed by Westminster's fraud team on June 6 last year. He told officers that his wife completed the housing benefit application forms while he provided her with details of his earnings and finances. But under questioning he admitted he did have a number of accounts he had not told the council about, one of which was set up after the sale of a flat in Kosovo. The court heard he had invested about 22,000 from the sale of the flat in a Barclays savings account, but Hondus added he did not realise he had to report this money while making an application for housing benefits. He then provided details of another undeclared savings account he held with the Abbey National and said that he used the money in this account to decorate his flat. Magistrates found Hondus guilty of eight offences of making false statements on his housing benefit application form. Councillor Melvyn Caplan, Westminster City Council's cabinet member for finance, said: Benefit fraud is a serious matter as it takes away resources away from genuine claimants. We will continue to clamp down on those who think it is acceptable. Westminster City Council fraud hotline number is 0800 028 9888. 
