www.saba.com/english/index.asp - For Saba Software, Inc. Alissa Vasilevskis, +1-650-581-2615 avasilevskis@saba.com Saba (NASDAQ:SABA), the premier people management software and services provider, today announced the latest release of its unified people management platform, Saba Enterprise 5.4 SP3. Available now, this new release includes innovations across talent, learning and performance that include: groundbreaking internal recruiting capabilities, a new module -- Saba Workforce Planning -- and enhancements to the Saba Content Integration Framework, as well as new collaboration and organizational charting capabilities. 'Saba continues to lead the way in delivering an innovative, unified people management platform that can help organizations develop and manage their people and improve business performance,' said Bobby Yazdani, chairman and CEO of Saba. 'This release streamlines the entire talent lifecycle -- with advances in workforce planning, training, measurement and career development -- to provide a more consistent, disciplined approach to people management that drives organizational success.' 'Organizations recognize that in order to realize the benefits of integrated talent management, they must adopt technology that can help them unify formal and informal talent, learning and performance processes across their organization,' said Leighanne Levansaler, director of talent management research, Bersin &amp;amp; Associates. 'By implementing a unified platform solution, organizations have better information available about their people across the extended enterprise and can make more informed decisions to improve productivity as well create a more meaningful view of their current and future workforce requirements.' Saba Enterprise is a comprehensive, unified people management platform designed to align learning, performance and talent management processes to organizational goals. With this release, Saba continues to advance the value of unified people management processes by enabling organizations to more effectively manage their internal talent pipeline, enhance organizational agility through a new approach to workforce planning, and dramatically increase learning and development capabilities through a real-time plug-and-play content integration framework. New in Saba Enterprise 5.4 SP3: Saba Foundation Enhancements -- New organizational charting capabilities -- provides employees, managers, and administrators with ability to quickly navigate and understand the organization. -- New in Saba Collaboration -- automatic publishing of Saba Centra sessions and edited recordings to the Saba Enterprise knowledge base. -- Enhanced third-party support -- extends Saba's broad list of supported platforms and technologies. Saba Talent Suite Enhancements -- New module -- Saba Workforce Planning -- moves beyond general headcount-based planning to enable organizations to model the future based on unique employee attributes and position requirements. Saba Workforce Planning provides organizations with the dynamic decision-support tools they need to model different organizational scenarios to identify risk and take action. For more information, please visit www.saba.com/products/talent/details.htm#workforce_planning -- New internal recruiting capabilities -- provides employees with the ability to actively participate in talent development opportunities by enabling them to search for and apply to succession pools that accept applications. Managers can also search for external candidates and include them as part of a succession pool. Saba Learning Suite Enhancements -- Extended Content Integration Framework -- delivers support for an open content integration framework, including support for SkillSoft's OLSA asset integration, SCORM2004 3rd Edition, and additional content players, underscoring Saba's ongoing commitment to open integration with all types of content. (See related release: Saba Extends Industry-Leading Content Integration Framework to Improve Enterprise Learning Effectiveness.) -- Streamlined certification workflows -- simplifies the process of completing certification-related tasks, for the simplest as well as the most complex certification requirements. -- Enhanced support for external training request approval processes -- provides a new learning request form that manages SF-182 approval processes, critical for federal government organizations. This form can also be reconfigured to support the needs of all organizations that require a robust, external learning approval process. Saba Performance Suite Enhancements -- Enhanced support for performance review calibration -- in-progress review scores can now be displayed in various analytical tools within Saba. -- Enhanced review section ratings -- offers greater flexibility by allowing rating scales to be defined by section, allowing performance reviews with multiple section-related rating scales. Availability Saba Enterprise 5.4 SP3 is available now. Saba solutions can be deployed either OnDemand or on premise. For more information, please visit www.saba.com/products. About Saba Founded in 1997, Saba (NASDAQ: SABA) is the premier global provider of strategic Human Capital Management (HCM) software and services. Saba's people management solutions are used by more than 1,300 organizations and over 17 million end-users worldwide. Saba's solutions increase organizational performance by aligning workforce goals with organizational strategy; developing, managing, and rewarding their people; and improving collaboration. Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support. Saba customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, Daimler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC Corporation, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health &amp;amp; Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service, and U.S. Navy. Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791. SABA, the Saba logo, Centra, and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Groundbreaking Internal Recruiting Capabilities, New Workforce Planning Module, and Extended Content Integration Framework Available Now in Saba Enterprise 
