Saba Software, (News) Inc. (Nasdaq:SABA), the premier people management software and services provider, today announced that Mitel A Saba Enterprise customer since 2001, Mitel already had reduced administration costs three fold by using Saba Learning for its certification programs, product training and sales programs. Following its merger with Inter-Tel, training was identified as a critical component to the success of the new company. In fact, Mitel University was given an executive-led directive to have all customer-facing personnel fluent in both companies' product lines within three months. With Saba Learning, Mitel University, achieved this goal and delivered a range of blended learning options to its employees across hundreds of product lines "" 'Following the merger, we had a directive from the top to integrate not only the different product lines but also the different company cultures,' said Lynn McCormick, senior manager, Training Development and Tools, Mitel University. 'We relied on Saba to help us provide both sets of employees with training with a minimum of administration and with maximum effectiveness. In addition, standardizing on a single learning platform has streamlined administration and reporting, which has resulted in significant time and cost savings for Mitel." Saba Learning was selected as Mitel'Mitel University also uses Saba Centra for Web conferencing to capture knowledge throughout the organization, in particular by recording solutions to complicated customer support issues and integrating these with Subject Matter Expert talks. 'Mitel University's success is a great example of how a global organization can use learning to drive change and achieve business goals,' said A.G. Lambert, vice president of marketing for Saba. 'They're helping to set the standard for powerful learning that provides rapid business results "" Mitel will present its success story at Saba'About Mitel Mitel delivers flexibility and simplicity in smart unified communications solutions and applications for organizations of all sizes. Combined with a full range of managed services that include voice and data network design and traffic provisioning, custom application development, and attractive financing options, Mitel is reinventing how successful organizations gain competitive advantage by easily collaborating and communicating over distance and time with customers, colleagues and partners. Mitel'About Saba Founded in 1997, Saba (NASDAQ: SABA) is the premier global provider of strategic human capital management (HCM) software and services. Saba'Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support. Saba customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, Daimler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC Corporation, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter&amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health&amp;amp;Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Navy. Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791. SABA, the Saba logo, Centra and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
