SourceMedia and DM Review are pleased to announce the third annual 'MDM Summit - Fall 2008' conference to be held at the New York Hilton hotel on October 19 - 21, 2008. Working closely with SourceMedia's Conferences and Events Group and DM Review is Aaron Zornes. As chief research officer for the MDM Institute, Mr. Zornes is responsible for shaping the agenda and speaker lineup for the IT industry's mega-event covering the exploding areas of master data management (MDM), customer data integration (CDI), and data governance. According to Gartner research, the MDM for customer data market grew by 15% CAGR in 2007 -- from US$306 million to US$352 million in 2007. Moreover, through 2010 US$2 billion is expected to be spent on the aggregate MDM market during 2010 including systems integration services and related data quality software. As further evidence of the strategic importance of this market, analyst firms Forrester and Gartner both recently released their third annual Wave reports and Magic Quadrants respectively. Research from the MDM Institute projects that by 2012, more than 80% of the Global 5000 size enterprises will have committed to enterprise MDM as a core business strategy and have implemented at least one master entity -- whether party (customer/supplier/citizen) or product. MDM SUMMIT - Fall 2008 is designed to meet the needs of first mover and early adopters in mid-to-large organizations who are either evaluating or implementing these key technology initiatives. The conference provides additional emphasis for the advanced MDM practitioner as well as the financial services and life sciences industries. The three day conference agenda is designed to provide a road map for the approximately 400 attendees via more than fifty real-world case studies, expert panel discussions, and thought leadership presentations. Keynotes will be provided by executives from: Cognizant; DataFlux, Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet, Oracle, and SAP with case study presentations from market-leading enterprises. The 90% all new user case studies include: American Standard; Avon; Cisco; Commerzbank; EMC; Fingerhut; Grange Insurance; Groupe Michelin; Humana; International Paper Company; Johnson &amp;amp; Johnson; The Leukemia &amp;amp; Lymphoma Society; McGraw-Hill; Merrill Lynch; Nationwide Insurance; Nemours; Pfizer, R.R. Donnelly; Safeco; Scottrade; Stryker; Unum; and Vertex. For additional information regarding this event, please visit www.MDM-Summit.com. Per Mr. Zornes, 'This is a unique opportunity for enterprise architects, CTOs, and CIOs to learn from and network with the best and the brightest MDM early movers. Our conference agenda includes timely topics such as data governance, identity resolution, and global account management. Additionally, we've added nine sessions on product information management (PIM) data hubs.' Adds DM Review editor James Ericson, 'We saw the emergence of MDM several years ago when we launched our Customer Data Integration (CDI), Data Governance, and MDM Resource Portals at DMReview.com. The SOLD OUT status of the past 2+ years of these events only further underscores the strategic nature of master data management as a vital solution in addressing enterprises' needs for better compliance, increase cross-selling, and better customer service.' About The MDM Institute The MDM Institute is the only research advisory firm focused exclusively on master data management (MDM), customer data integration (CDI), and data governance. The institute provides insight into the MDM decision making process in North America, Asia-Pacific and Europe via a 'trusted advisor' relationship with the CIOs, CTOs, enterprise architects, and MDM project leaders at 8,500+ Global 5000 enterprises currently engaged in such infrastructure build-out. Its MarketPulse(TM) reports and MDM Alerts(TM) newsletter provide IT organizations, vendors, and investors hard-hitting insights into best practices as well as market observations. The MDM Institute provides clear direction for MDM investments which are independent, authoritative and relevant at www.The-MDM-Institute.com. About DM Review DM Review empowers both the business and IT audience with the latest strategies for rolling out and optimizing technology investments. Published monthly, DM Review provides product reviews, best practices and cutting-edge commentary from the leading Business Intelligence and Data Management experts. Areas of coverage include: business process management, business performance management; customer relationship management including customer data integration; data integration, database and application management, data warehousing, ETL, EII, and EAI. This information is also available online at www.dmreview.com. About SourceMedia SourceMedia provides market information, including news, analysis, and insight to the financial services and related industries such as accounting and technology, through its publications, industry-standard data applications, seminars and conferences. Its flagship publications, including American Banker, National Mortgage News, The Bond Buyer, and Accounting Today, have helped build SourceMedia's reputation as the pre-eminent information source in its respective markets. Consulting services, software, and data provided through its two divisions, National Regulatory Services (NRS) and Accuity, facilitates regulatory compliance, funds registration and data flow among institutions in the investment, insurance, and financial service industries. The news, information, data, consulting services, and marketing solutions SourceMedia delivers is packaged in any format customers prefer and need -- in person, in print or online, including newspapers and magazines, reference directories, database products, software, Web seminars and live events. SourceMedia's 750,000 worldwide clients and subscribers range from c-level executives to business-unit heads to line managers -- from the front office to the middle office to the back office. www.sourcemedia.com. 
