ware, Inc. (NASDAQ:SABA), the premier people management software and services provider, today concludes its People 2008 -- Saba Global Summit 2008. Held October 20-23 at the Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., Saba's annual global user conference gathered customers, partners and industry thought leaders from Europe, Asia, Latin and North America who shared strategic people management insights. Attendees were also the first to view and test-drive Saba's breakthrough enterprise social networking platform--Saba Social.'Saba's customers at People 2008 represented a wide variety of industries, sizes and implementation types that illustrate the breadth, depth and scalability of our unified people management solutions,' said Bobby Yazdani, CEO and chairman for Saba. 'The record attendance in a time of economic uncertainty shows the importance customers place in relationships across the Saba community. We are honored to play a strategic role in our customers' success.'People 2008 -- Saba Global Summit presenter, Lynn McCormick, Sr. Manager, Training Development and Tools, Mitel University noted, 'Mitel University's long term goals are to take advantage of Web 2.0 technologies and tools to offer more 'informal' learning opportunities that enhance and supplement our existing learning offerings. Saba Social fits very well into our collaboration strategy, which will allow us to capture the knowledge within our learner and subject matter expert communities and enable the sharing of this invaluable knowledge and experience.'During People 2008, Saba made several key announcements, including:-- Saba Social--built on Saba's unified platform, Saba Social is a breakthrough enterprise social networking platform that uniquely combines a rich person profile and competency framework with real-time collaboration and comprehensive social networking tools to capture knowledge and connect people with expertise. Saba Social is designed to enable organizations to engage employees, partners and customers more effectively, build connected corporate communities, and accelerate high-quality knowledge exchange and information flow to foster innovation and increase productivity. Saba Social is planned for general availability in mid-2009. For more information, please visit www.saba.com/sabasocial.-- Saba Receives Top Marks in Bersin &amp;amp; Associates Study on Performance Management Solutions--according to the recently published Bersin &amp;amp; Associates study on employee performance management, Saba is a clear market leader, receiving the highest possible rating in all six core performance management areas. The study recognizes Saba's innovation and global capabilities as well as that ROI is twice as high for companies implementing integrated suites versus point solutions.-- Saba's Continued OnDemand Momentum and Commitment to Operational Excellence--Saba announced that ArvinMeritor Inc. and General Dynamics Corp. are among customers recently adopting Saba OnDemand solutions. In addition, through a commitment to operational excellence, Saba has expanded its OnDemand support and is delivering solutions from a new, state-of-the-art data center to companies of all sizes, including a large, high-technology company with more than 200,000 users, which consumes more than 2.7 million minutes of Saba Centra OnDemand per month.Industry executives and thought leaders that shared important insights around the latest trends in strategic people management and social networking with keynote presentations included: Tim Ringo, Global Leader, Human Capital Management, IBM; Carol Rozwell, Vice President and Distinguished Analyst, Gartner; Coco Yackley, Human Capital CIO, Intel Corporation; Dr. Rob Cross, Associate Professor of Management, University of Virginia, and Director of The Network Roundtable; and, Zach Thomas, Senior Analyst, Forrester Research.Saba Customer Excellence AwardsDuring the user conference, Saba also presented the 2008 Saba Customer Excellence Awards, recognizing superior achievement in strategic people management implementations. The 2008 award winners were honored in the following categories:-- Hitachi Data Systems--Best Enterprise Learning-- Intel--Best Enterprise Learning-- Insurance Australia Group (IAG)--Best People Management-- HCL Technologies--Best Informal Learning and Collaboration-- Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF)--Best Government Deployment-- Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University--Best Academic Deployment-- Broadridge Financial Solutions--Business Impact and Transformation-- Mitel Networks--Business Impact and Transformation-- Five Guys Burgers and Fries--Best Mid-Market'We are pleased to recognize our Customer Excellence Award winners who have deployed high-impact people management strategies for their organizations that align learning, performance, talent and collaboration to business goals,' concluded Yazdani.Legal Notice Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding future releases of Saba's products and continued growth and momentum in Saba's OnDemand business. Saba's actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties Saba faces that could cause results to differ materially include risks associated with: Saba's dependence on growth of the markets for Saba's products, dependence on acceptance of Saba's products by customers and channel partners, fluctuation in customer spending, length of Saba's sales cycle, competition, rapid technological change, dependence on new product introductions and enhancements and potential software defects. Readers should also refer to the section entitled 'Risk Factors' on pages 11 through 21 of Saba's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2008 and similar disclosures in subsequent Saba periodic SEC reports. The forward-looking statements and risks stated in this press release are based on information available to Saba today. Saba assumes no obligation to update them.About SabaFounded in 1997, Saba (NASDAQ:SABA) is the premier global provider of strategic human capital management (HCM) software and services. Saba's people management solutions are used by more than 1,200 organizations and over 17 million end users worldwide. Saba's solutions increase organizational performance by aligning workforce goals with organizational strategy; developing, managing and rewarding their people; and improving collaboration.Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support.Saba customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, DaimlerChrysler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC Corporation, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy.Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791.SABA, the Saba logo, Centra and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.SOURCE: Saba Software, Inc.Saba Software, Inc. Alissa Vasilevskis, +1-650-581-2615 avasilevskis@saba.comFor full details for SABA click here.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
