  When Mary Palmieri Gai, a Westport Realtor, pitched her plan on how to get people back into homes and stimulate the economy to Sen. Joseph Lieberman's office, she said she received plenty of enthusiastic feedback from the staffers.  A week later, all she got back from the senator was a generic form letter about his own plans to fix housing. The response was disappointing but she isn't going to stop trying to make the wide-spread foreclosures work to someone's benefit. 'I've been literally sending it [the plan] for the last two months to everyone who could be interested,' she said. Her idea -- called People United to Secure Housing, or PUSH for short -- comes from her background as a veteran realtor and a former loan officer at Connecticut National Bank, which is now Bank of America.   The plan also comes from being the mother of an adult son with autism and the daughter of an elderly mother.  Palmieri Gai said the recession began with housing, and it could be solved the same way. 'I've always felt, and I'm a politics and economics junkie, that homes are a microcosm of the economy,' she said. Palmieri Gai explained that many people make a living off homes since there are a lot of services and items that homeowners need. This creates economic effects that trickle both up and down, but when homes are foreclosed, this money dries up. Also, she said that foreclosures have a negative effect on surrounding property values and crime in the area.  The plan, which is outlined at www.pushtosecurehousing.org, essentially comes down to the banks handing over their foreclosed homes since they've received billions of dollars of taxpayer money. 'It makes sense to us since banks are not in the business of owning homes,' she said. Cities such as Newark, N.J. and Cleveland, Ohio, which have faced a high foreclosure rates, would especially benefit from PUSH, explained Palmieri Gai.  PUSH would serve as a parent organization, and homes would be distributed to nonprofit groups at nearly no cost. They would then determine the most qualified people to move into the homes.  However, before anybody moves in, workers would start on 'shovel ready' projects with the homes. 'This is putting people to work right away,' she said. The homes would be renovated to be environmentally conscious and energy efficient. Materials would be purchased locally and the homes would be made handicapped accessible. Some of the foreclosed buildings would then turn into shared homes for the elderly and disabled. 'This helps on such a basic level,' she said. 'I think it's a part of the solution. Not the whole solution, but part of the solution.' If the plan works as she envisions it, the banks would look like the good guys for donating their foreclosed homes, materials would be bought to stimulate the economy, jobs would be created and people would have a place to live. The effect of foreclosed homes would be eliminated and everyone involved in the process would come out better than they were before. 'I'm not saying it's a panacea, but I could see it working,' she said. Palmieri Gai said she's pitched the idea to a number of people and has even heard back from Steve Forbes, who told her that PUSH is a good idea. She's hired a lobbyist -- which she admitted was one of the least expensive ones -- and although she believes PUSH is growing legs, the plan still has to find the right sponsor or sponsors to get off the ground. 'I just need to find that right person,' she said. 'A dream come true would be to have PUSH nationally recognized and put into use right away.' Although this has been her own idea since it suddenly came to her a couple months ago, she said she isn't looking for accolades or fame. She just wants to help run the organization in order to improve the luck of people throughout the country who have been suffering.
