Neil Tilley is the founder of Upstream Solutions. Upstream is a software and laser printer distribution business that had six staff in 1995 and now has more than $100 million revenue. Tilley talks about how he has built the business, attitudes to the downturn, and where he sees his industry going.    Amanda Gome: Youve expanded very quickly over the past 12 years. How have you done that?  Neil Tilley: I think the expansion was very quick in the early days. When youre a small company, a million dollars turnover is pretty easy to double. But weve just kept focusing on what we do well and weve acquired a couple of small companies along the way. And suddenly you wake up one morning and you realise that youve got a $100 million company and not a $10 million one.  Whats the niche you saw back then?  We always saw that people managing paper, laser printers and other output devices as we refer to them, so photocopiers and faxes and the like, was a niche area. It had traditionally been thought of as a part of ones IT team and by IT specialists. So we felt if we could become specialist managers of those devices and peoples paper that would be a good niche area for us.  How has that niche changed? Of course once you started going in there you would have got competitors coming in.  It is now a recognised segment in the marketplace. Today its all about the management of paper and about helping people produce less paper. When we first got into it was more about the management of devices and helping people get access to the devices.  So have you developed new strategy around any new niches youve see emerging?  Weve had to spend a lot of time with our business figuring out if we try and help people to print less, how do we make money? Because our business had traditionally been we make money when they print things.  So we had to have a pretty significant rethink about who we were and how our business model works so that it did in fact work in our best interest, to help people to produce less paper in their business.  So how did you do that?  We came to understand that we were only a small part of our market share. So if we could help more and more clients produce less paper we could still grow our business. Weve found that we can add value to people with solutions around storing documents electronically so we can now make money when we dont print paper as well.  Weve developed some pretty straight forward approaches to help people to think about what is good and bad use of paper. I always say to people that if the primary purpose of producing a piece of paper is to store something or to move something then you shouldnt do it. Its much better to do that electronically. But if youre producing paper to work with it, its a great medium.  Youve always had an attitude of encouraging entrepreneurism among your employees. How has the downturn changed the way youre managing staff?  I dont think that its affected us too much. Obviously a lot of our customers are feeling pain from the downturn and my observation at the moment is that most people are more worried about the downturn than actually being affected by it.  So we all talk about it everyday and we all think about it everyday, but we dont do business with really super large organisations and they so far have been the ones losing all the staff. So weve not made any changes in our staff numbers, I think people are scared of the economic times so you need to be more reassuring of your staff and more communicative, and tell them how youre going as a business and keep them informed that the business is OK.  And I guess if business wasnt OK, youd need to be informing them about that as well so you could maintain their trust.  Are you finding that theres a different way of selling in this environment?  Even in the boom times, you talk to anybody, you had to save them money. And then you could talk to them about how to add value after that. I think in these times saving people money is more important than previously. But its always been a critical issue for people.  You cant get a timetable with somebody to talk to them about the sort of things we do unless youre going to talk about how to save them money. And in todays world theyre just a bit more interested in saving money.  You have a culture with a FiFo policy, dont you  fit in or f-off?  Yes. Thats it.  How do you recruit in this environment to fit that policy?  I think youre trying to work out how to get your company to be as effective or as efficient as it is. And the FiFo culture really is a statement that all of us are emotional beings first and intellectual beings second. And so it really says that a significant level of our efficiency to operate as a team revolves around how we all get along with each other.  Some people interpret it as us bullying people that they have to be a certain way or act a certain way, and its not that it all. Its really saying I have to realise that my relationships with other people will have a significant impact on whether they like coming to work everyday or they like working here.  And if I feel good about the people I work with, then I want to come to work everyday and I feel like I can add value; and if I dont, Ill sit around either not wanting to come to work or worried about the lack of positive reinforcement relationship Ive got.  So FiFo is about helping people recognise that getting along with other people is a significant efficiency gain in your business. And if youre someone whos a super intellectual person and can add lots of value to a business but the way you go about operating really distresses everybody else around you, you might be adding extra value but youre taking it away from all those other people.  How do you go about moving people on? Do you do it quickly?  You need to be sympathetic. You try and educate people and help them understand how they can be of more value in your organisation by modifying some of their behaviours. But if its obvious at the end of the day that somebody isnt going to fit in with your culture then you need to move them on as quick as you can.  Do you have a way you do that?  Look cold, hard, open and honest. I mean be totally frank with people. Tell them what your issues are, encourage them, give them chances to fix it. And if they cant, ask them to go.  Now you have a very good way of reviewing. Its a 360 degree method whereby you hear what they say about you. Whats been one thing staff have told you that has changed or modified your behaviour.  Look it can be terribly confronting at times. Ive been told people are scared (of me) because you can get pretty excited or assertive on certain subjects. And Ive been told before that my personal style doesnt always encourage people to say what they think.  And that for me was very confronting, because Im always thinking I want everybody to say what they think. And people would just explain to me that the assertive mannerisms or the way in which I would put my arguments, people were scared to put theirs up even though were saying verbally we want them to; it comes across a bit intimidatory.  So you sit there and think OK Ive got to learn to shut up and Ive got to learn to make sure that everybody elses put their input into a subject before I do, because if I do it first, other people may not.  How are you going about coaching people in this difficult environment? Staff are a bit spooked as well.  I think in some ways it gets easier. If people are a bit worried about the future, most of us behave in a different way so it comes back to those old fight or flight instincts, the adrenalin levels go up.  And so if people feel a bit threatened, theyre a bit more alert to whats going on. In boom times, people can get an attitude ah well, seems like things go good whether we try or whether we dont and in more stressful times people are very conscious of making sure they do keep things in a good way.  One of the keys to your success is that you have been very focused and not easily distracted. Have you taught yourself to do that or has that been natural?  Its difficult. We would refer to it as the pot of gold type scenario where you sort of imagine were working our way up this windy road, to find our pot of gold, and often youll come to a Y or cross section in the road, and you can see what is a benefit up this little side track if you go up and grab it?  But weve always said no, were on a main agenda here.  Staying focused is tricky at times if cashflow is ever tight, and you think heres a way that we can earn some extra revenue. But the difficulty you have is that all of those sidelines become baggage that slows you down from getting your main job done. So I guess were in fear that if we didnt keep completely focused on what were doing, someone else might focus on it more than us and therefore be better at it.  But you keep ideas flowing, ideas for new ways of doing things. How do you do that?  You just encourage people to talk about it. Its interesting because you want to be totally open minded about how you do something but actually very closed minded about what it is youre trying to do. So were not very fluid about what it is were trying to achieve, but were very fluid about how we go about achieving it and debating that and trying new things.  I think you come to realise that theres more than one way to get something done and sometimes people can see a better or easier way to do it.  So how old are you now Neil?  Im 49 this year, so I cant claim to be a young entrepreneur anymore.  Yes youre young. And whats the revenue target for this year?  Weve got more modest growth targets. I think well probably end up $110 million. To be honest we dont actually set targets like that, were just happy to keep growing and keep doing what were doing. The last couple of years weve been focusing on getting our profitability where we want it to be.  How did you do that?  A couple of years ago we did a bit of a worldwide tour an...
