Andrea Milner    Banks will continue to charge sky-high home loan break fees - often reaching tens of thousands - until there is a legal test case or intervention by Parliament, says the outgoing banking ombudsman, Liz Brown.  Rapidly falling interest rates prompted a wave of struggling homeowners locked into high long-term fixed-rate mortgages to approach their bank about moving to the lower rates available to new borrowers. But in many cases banks charge existing customers tens of thousands to change their loan terms.  Brown, who last week announced she's stepping down from the job after almost 14 years,  says banks are entitled to charge break fees but they must be reasonable, reflecting the actual cost to the bank of breaking the loan.  Customers who suspect they are being rorted appear to have nowhere to go, as the law is unclear on what the bank is allowed to take into account when calculating this cost. 'I think we will have to have either some amendment to the law or a case before the courts because it's not something an ombudsman or the Commerce Commission can decide,' says Brown. A break fee is calculated on the size of the mortgage, its remaining fixed term when it is repaid and how far interest rates - either customer or wholesale rates - have fallen since it was fixed. ASB, BNZ, and the National Bank calculate the break fee off how far customer interest rates have fallen since the mortgage was fixed, which is not as far as wholesale rates have as a result of the credit crisis.  ANZ, Westpac and Kiwibank calculate the break fee off wholesale interest rates, which makes their break fees higher.  The break fee calculation is complicated, says John Bolton, principal of Squirrel Financial Solutions. Essentially, for every year remaining on their fixed-term loan, borrowers can expect to pay roughly $1000 per $100,000 borrowed for every 1 per cent fall in rates.  So, if interest rates fall by 2 per cent, a customer with a $400,000 mortgage on a five-year fixed rate with three years still to go will face a penalty fee of around $24,000. The lower the floating rate drops, the bigger the break fee, says Massey University director of banking studies, David Tripe. 'What the banks have been saying - or should have been saying - is that it may be cheaper to break your fixed rate now than it will be tomorrow, or next month.' The Productive Economy Council says the government should standardise break fees and the formula so it's made simpler for customers to understand. It proposes that the costs of breaking fixed-term mortgages should be split three ways - between mortgage holders, their banks and the government.
