: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  EXORBITANT late fees charged by banks and phone carriers could be scrapped under sweeping new powers to be given to the consumer watchdog.  Assistant Treasurer Chris Bowen will today announce laws will be fast-tracked to protect people from 'unfair' contracts which slug customers with 'unreasonable costs'.  Some banks charge customers as much as $35 for late credit card payments, $30 for exceeding a credit card limit, $38 for overdrawn accounts and $45 in direct debit dishonour fees.  The new Australian Consumer Law proposes to ban contract clauses which charge consumers for breaches that do not reflect reasonable costs.  The new provision will allow consumer group CHOICE to immediately ask for an investigation into the fees.  CHOICE senior policy officer Elissa Freeman said yesterday that banks refused to reveal how much it cost to record and notify customers of late fees.  She said it had been estimated that it could be as high as 64 times the actual cost.  'Unfortunately it is the banks that hold the information. It now means regulators have an opportunity to get the answers,' Ms Freeman said. '(These fees) hit low-income earners the hardest (because) $35 could be a good chunk of your income.'  While the Reserve Bank of Australia has slashed the official cash rate in recent months to 3.25 per cent, credit card interest rates are 18.75 per cent and higher.  Almost every Australian adult has at least one credit card and the nation's card debt has blown out to $32.4 billion.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics revealed yesterday personal borrowing rose 4.1 per cent in December, compared with the previous month.  Mr Bowen said today's announcement, which was agreed to at October's Council of Australian Governments meeting, would bring consumer protection in line with the UK and Europe. 'This means that for the first time, all Australian consumers will have protection from unfair contract terms,' he said.  'The unfair contract terms regulation will cover standard-form contracts like those consumers would be used to signing for their utilities, mobile phones and bank accounts.'  The laws could stop phone companies from automatically extending fixed-term mobile phone contracts without customers' consent.  It would also ban gyms from preventing consumers from cancelling a contract, even though the gym could dissolve the contract when it liked.  To be considered in Parliament this year, it would give the ACCC the ability to issue civil pecuniary penalties and infringement notices.  An unfair contract is described as causing: 'a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations'.  
