Largest Pet Insurance Company Reveals Last Year's Most Common Claims  BREA, Calif.  Top Canine Claims Top Feline Claims 1. Ear Infections 1. Lower Urinary Tract Disease 2. Skin Allergies 2. Gastritis/Stomach Upsets 3. Pyoderma/Hot Spots 3. Chronic Renal Failure 4. Gastritis/Vomiting 4. Enteritis/Diarrhea 5. Enteritis/Diarrhea 5. Diabetes Mellitus 6. Urinary Tract Infections 6. Skin Allergies 7. Benign Skin Tumors 7. Hyperthyroidism 8. Osteoarthritis 8. Ear Infections 9. Eye Inflammation 9. Upper Respiratory Virus 10. Hypothyroidism 10. Eye Inflammation  'The large number of claims received for these medical conditions attests to their often repetitive or chronic nature,' said Dr. Carol McConnell  Most of the top pet conditions will bring about a noticeable change in the behavior or appearance of a pet. Pet owners can ensure that they recognize an illness quickly with regular observation of a pet's daily routine and inspection of a pet's eyes, ears, and skin. Any lumps, sores, unusual odors, or drastic changes in behavior suggest that one's pet should be promptly examined by a veterinarian. Even before a problem manifests, semiannual physical exams can help diagnose problems early or in some cases prevent many illnesses.   If left untreated, any of the top 10 conditions could result in serious health problems and eventually cost hundreds of dollars to treat. In 2008, the most expensive of the common canine conditions was benign skin tumors, with an average submitted claim fee of $340  About Veterinary Pet Insurance Veterinary Pet Insurance Co./DVM Insurance Agency is the nation's oldest and largest pet health insurance company and is a member of the Nationwide Insurance family of companies. Providing pet owners with peace of mind since 1982, the company is committed to being the trusted choice of America's pet lovers and an advocate of pet health education. VPI Pet Insurance plans cover dogs, cats, birds and exotic pets for multiple medical problems and conditions relating to accidents, illnesses and injuries. Optional Pet WellCare Protection(SM) for routine care is also available.  Medical plans are available in all 50 states and the District of Columbia  SOURCE Veterinary Pet Insurance
