Reuters   President Barack Obama has given America the audacity to hope again. Speaking for the first time at a joint sitting of the US Congress, he got a standing ovation and his speech was interrupted by cheers more than 60 times.   Obama yesterday sought to strike a delicate balance between hope and reality to reassure Americans mired in economic crisis that they would survive a 'day of reckoning'. Riding high in opinion polls as he delivered his first address to a joint session of Congress, he was careful to include a sober assessment of the grim economic situation and his efforts to fix it.   But the politician whose memoir was called The Audacity of Hope was also back in stride, telling recession-weary Americans that they can expect better days ahead.   He was candid about problems. But with misgivings among some fellow Democrats that his tone has become too gloomy, he injected a clear note of optimism. 'While our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken, though we are living through difficult and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this: We will rebuild, we will recover. 'And the United States of America will emerge stronger than before,' he said to loud applause in the packed chamber.   His address, which was televised, came against a backdrop of growing anxiety across the US in the face of the worst financial meltdown in decades. But while his public support is strong, Wall Street remains sceptical of his economic remedies.   Jittery investors sent US stocks to a 12-year low on Monday, but the markets rallied yesterday on Federal Reserve chairperson Ben Bernanke's assurances that troubled banks should be able to weather the downturn without being nationalised.   Obama said more money may be needed to fix debt-laden banks and revive the economy, warning that 'while the cost of action will be great, I can assure you that the cost of inaction will be far greater'. But he took a harder line with troubled US carmakers, saying that while he supported making the companies more competitive, the government would not protect them from their own bad decision-making.   Trying to show that he will make good on his promise of fiscal responsibility, Obama said he had identified $2-trillion (about R20-trillion) in budget cuts over over the next decade.   Obama, who will roll out his first budget proposal tomorrow, has vowed to halve the $1-trillion-plus annual deficit he inherited from former president George Bush.   That may be difficult, critics have said, if he moves fast on his pledge to undertake a costly health-care overhaul while the economy is still slumping and tax revenues are down.   But some analysts were cheered by his words. 'Obama is obviously trying to allay concerns that there will be a budget blowout. Whether he can deliver it or not is tough to say, but it's the rhetoric that matters,' said Amy Auster, head of foreign exchange and international economics research at ANZ Bank in Melbourne, Australia.   Obama was quick with indirect criticism of Bush, citing his administration's failure to plan for the country's economic plight and bloated debt. 'Critical debates and difficult decisions were put off for some other time on some other day,' he said. 'Well, that day of reckoning has arrived, and the time to take charge of our future is here.' Underscoring his break with some Bush policies that damaged the US's image overseas, Obama also reiterated that the US 'does not torture'. He has ordered the closing of the Guantanamo Bay military prison where foreign terrorism suspects are held.   Obama also highlighted a shift in the US military focus from Iraq to Afghanistan, saying he would soon unveil a plan that 'responsibly ends' the Iraq war. He offered assurances that his administration would not pursue the go-it-alone approach for which Bush was criticised, saying: 'We are showing the world that a new era of engagement has begun.' First and foremost, however, Obama pressed the case for his economic approach while laying out a broader agenda, including a push for a health-care overhaul and a stepped-up role for America in the fight against climate change.   Obama's first weeks in office have been marked by a $787-billion economic stimulus package, a retooled financial industry bailout programme and a home-mortgage rescue plan.   But he has also faced criticism that some of his early financial proposals have been lacking in specifics.   Taking a page from Obama's upbeat tone as a candidate in delivering the Republican response, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal entitled his rebuttal 'Americans can do anything'. Jindal said Republicans were ready to work with Obama on the economy, but also tore into the president and Democrats who control Congress for legislation which he said would 'saddle future generations with debt'.
