BARACK Obama is aiming to water down Democratic proposals on pay caps for banking executives because he fears a 'brain drain' on Wall Street. In a move that has angered leaders of his own party, the US President has indicated his concern that new caps on compensation -- inserted into his $US787 billion ($1.2 trillion) stimulus bill, which he was to sign into law overnight -- are too draconian and could limit banks' co-operation with his plan to stabilise the financial sector.   This month, Mr Obama issued guidelines for the limits: in essence, a $US500,000 executive pay cap for companies that receive government money. Under the guidelines, restrictions would apply only to banks that receive 'exceptional assistance'. The restrictions in the bill are tighter, imposing limits on all banks that receive money. The stimulus package also calls for a review of past compensation, raising the prospect of executives having to pay back previous bonuses, and will place pay caps on a broader array of employees.   Mr Obama's stand comes amid increasing clamour over executive payments.   Democrats on Capitol Hill reacted with disbelief last week when it emerged that Merrill Lynch had paid bonuses of more than $US1 million each to 696 employees days before Bank of America bought it -- with the help of $US20 billion in taxpayers' money.   At the heart of the dispute in the Democrats' ranks is Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, who appears to have won the argument inside the White House to water down proposed limits on executive pay.   Mr Obama's political strategists did not want any modifications to the limits because they are so popular among an electorate disgusted with Wall Street excess, but the President has sided with Mr Geithner.   Mr Geithner fears that many banks will not take part in his $US2 trillion scheme to rescue the financial sector because the limits will put them off, and that some of the most talented people on Wall Street will leave for high-paying salaries elsewhere.   In the past 24 hours, Mr Obama's aides have indicated that he wants the provisions rewritten, provoking an outraged response from his own party. 'That is not an option,' declared Barney Frank, the Democratic chairman of the house financial services committee. 'This is going to be enforced.' David Axelrod, the President's chief adviser, said Mr Obama was considering taking a fresh look at the provisions and working with Congress on an 'appropriate approach'. After signing the stimulus bill in Denver, Mr Obama will be in Arizona tomorrow (Wednesday, US time) to announce his plan to halt home repossessions. He will pledge between $US50 billion and $US100 billion to help to reduce mortgage costs and renegotiate home loans.   The Times
