EAST MANATEE  Weary motorists have nine more months before the torn-up intersection at State Road 64 and Lakewood Ranch Boulevard is finally finished. But the end result will be a massive, smoothly functioning, piece of engineering, state officials are promising.  The Florida Department of Transportation is re-doing the intersection as part of a $22.5 million project that entails widening S.R. 64 from two to six lanes  three lanes in each direction  from Lena Road to Lakewood Ranch Boulevard.  While construction on the intersection itself is expected to last for at least the next nine months, the entire Lena to Lakewood Ranch Boulevard section wont be done until spring 2010, Lauren Hatchell, an FDOT spokeswoman, said Monday.  Buy it: Order this photo now  Buy it: Order this photo now  Buy it: Order this photo now  The consolation for road users will be a huge intersection that will offer seven lanes going northbound on Lakewood Ranch Boulevard, seven going east on S.R. 64, seven going south on Upper Manatee River Road and seven going west on S.R. 64, Hatchell said.  The seven-lane breakdown includes two left turn lanes, three through lanes and a right turn lane at each point of the intersection.  But until the intersection is done, local residents are concerned about safety in the intersection, which has barrels and arrows to help traffic along.  To Alvin Goldstein of Waterlefe, the intersection represents the threat of a head-on collision between east- and west-bound cars on S.R. 64.  Two days ago, I was getting ready to make a left from S.R. 64 to Upper Manatee River Road when a guy wanting to make a right turn onto Lakewood Ranch Boulevard moved into the middle lane, said Goldstein, who felt obligated to notify FDOT officials about his concern. He didnt know you have to go onto the dirt to make the right. He could have hit a car coming through head-on. Its a disaster waiting to happen, especially for people who dont know the road and especially at night.  For Denise Moraris, owner of Chloes Consignment Boutique in the shopping center anchored by Publix Supermarket just south of the intersection, her pet peeve are westbound S.R. 64 motorists who turn left illegally by the Bank of America to avoid the intersection.  There is a sign that says, No left, but it happens all the time, Moraris said. I saw a Florida Highway Patrol giving a ticket to someone who did that and I thought, Yeah, finally, justice.  Moraris has to go through the intersection several times a day since she lives in Mill Creek, which is a few miles east of the intersection on S.R. 64.  Although there havent been a lot of accidents at the intersection, there is the constant shrill sound of horns, said Moraris.  She drives a 2006 Lexus and, just recently, her son, George, remarked, What are those weird noises?  Her Lexus is beginning to get rattles from the bumpy intersection, Moraris said. To avoid the intersection, she often uses a gravel road east of the intersection which also shakes her car. It just isnt safe, Moraris said of the whole situation.  I almost got swiped by a car the other night, added Kara Saba, a family friend of the Morarises. I was going straight through and someone in a turning lane thought they were going straight through too. Its dangerous, especially at night.  Part of the challenge is that the barrels that define the path of traffic are occasionally changed as the intersection is being worked on, said Mill Creek resident Maureen Young-Curtis.  Its messy, Young-Curtis said of the intersection. When they keep changing lanes by moving the cones, its confusing and a lot of people arent paying attention.  FDOT is trying to tailor the intersection to make it safe as possible, Hatchell said.  As for the safety concerns expressed by residents, traffic was switched at this intersection and additional road pavement markers and arrows were added to help guide the public while they adjust to the new traffic patterns, Hatchell said.  For some, the intersection is a business peeve.  The construction has reduced business at Villa Marina Pizza in the shopping center just south by 20 to 30 percent, manager Ivan Colandrea said Monday.  Look at my lunch! cried Colandrea, looking out at only two diners. I hear it constantly. We dont want to come through that intersection.  Richard Dymond, Herald reporter, can be reached at 708-7917.  
