Longwood's Imperial Dynasty has been named one of the Top 100 Chinese restaurants in the United States by Chinese Restaurant News. It came in at No. 25. Not bad a bad place to be from sea to shining sea. I dropped in last week for an early lunch and was glad for my timing. By 12:30 p.m. the restaurant was packed with folks who appeared to be regulars. I opted for a bento box lunch ($10-$12). Yes, I know the bento box is a Japanese tradition, but Imperial Dynasty is an equal-opportunity Asian treasure. Besides, I'm a bit of a bento-box fiend. Once I see it on a menu, I can't look away. I think it may have something do with eating too many compartmentalized TV dinners on shaky metal TV tables as a child. (For the uninitiated, bento boxes are food containers that range from throw-away 'plates' to nice hand-crafted lacquerware. But I'm digressing from the meal at hand.) The centerpiece of my elegant russet-and-black box was delicate and meaty shrimp tempura. At the top left were four California rolls (a beginner's sushi roll with cucumber, crab and avocado) and a large, mound of white rice. Tucked into the bottom-right slot was a simple salad of crisp and fresh iceberg lettuce and real tomatoes. Two crisp crab rangoon (fried dumplings) pinched into a nice flower shape filled another compartment, and my box was completed with a small bowl of miso soup. For dinner later, I took away a wonderfully fiery sesame chicken and fine-but-no-surprises beef with assorted veggies (both $7.75) from the Chinese portion of the menu. Both were lunch combinations, which is plenty for me and my husband at supper. Both entrees came with steamed or fried white rice or brown rice, your choice of two California rolls, two chicken wings, a spring roll or soup (egg drop, chicken and sweet corn, wonton or hot and sour) or a side salad. Imperial Dynasty also has a swell sushi bar, and I often forget that it is there as I am trying to negotiate the permanently busy traffic where Interstate 4 crosses over State Road 434. I am coming back soon for sushi. Unless the bento boxes stare me down like Geico's bizarre eyeballed money stacks. I must resist. I must resist. By the way, Chinese Restaurant News, which started the competition in 2004, annually evaluates more than 43,000 restaurants in 50 states. To be included, 50 percent of the menu items must be related to Chinese cuisine. Results for the Top 100 are tabulated from a mystery-diner evaluation evalutation (60 percent), public votes (20 percent), media reviews and awards (10 percent) and an advisory-panel evaluation (10 percent). Chinese Restaurant News also applauded two other Florida restaurants. Imperial Buffet International (810 Cypress Gardens Blvd., Winter Haven; 863-292-9296) ranked No. 14 and South Garden Chinese Restaurant in Miami was No. 90. Do you think Chinese Restaurant News has overlooked your favorite Chinese restaurant? Go to the Web site Top100.c-r-n.com and click on 'Top 100 Home Page' in the upper left corner. Then click on the word 'nomination,' and you will see the instructions on how to nominate your top eatery. Swinging doors, changing tables"Chef Emeril Lagasse has named Greg Richie, formerly of Roy's, to lead the kitchen at his Polynesian-Asian restaurant Emeril's Tchoup Chop at the Loews Royal Pacific Resort at Universal Orlando. "Chef Kevin Fonzo is back in the kitchen at K Restaurant &amp; Wine Bar. K's former chef Scott Copeland has joined the team at Antonio's La Fiamma in Maitland. "Former Grand Bohemian chef Robert Mason is now chef de cuisine at the Westin Imagine's Fiorella's Cucina Toscana. "Earlier this week in the Cooking &amp; Eating section, I mentioned changes at Orlando's Le Coq au Vin. Chef Louis Perrotte and wife Magdalena have turned over daily operation to chef Reimund Pitz and his wife Sandy. Perrotte and Pitz are longtime collaborators. 'He and I were both trained in the classical styles of cooking,' says Perrotte. 'It's a good fit for Le Coq au Vin.' The Perrottes remain partners in the restaurant. "Harvey's Bistro and Manuel's on the 28th in downtown Orlando's Bank of America building served their last meals on Valentine's Day. If you'd like one last taste, check out the Harvey's and Manuel's recipes at OrlandoSentinel.com/thecook inggal. Food with a side of road workSanford's First Street is getting all gussied up. But don't let the construction keep you from the great downtown eateries. I recently had lunch at Taste of Thyme Cafe (108 Magnolia Ave. on Magnolia Square; 407-865-0798). The turkey Tuscan panini ($6.99) comes with kettle-style chips and crisp dill pickle spear. The sandwich was nicely layered with Muenster cheese, roasted red peppers and pesto mayo. The reuben ($6.99) was pretty straightforward. If you can, grab a table out front and make it an alfresco lunch break. Taste of Thyme is also open for breakfast, and they offer party platters. In an upcoming Sunday dining column, you'll hear about Sanford's Stones Throw Bistro just across the square.
