Oct. 7: Indias highest ranked golfer Jeev Milkha Singh aims to break into the top 50 of the world rankings by the year-end to fulfill his dream of playing the USPGA Augusta Masters next year. He is currently ranked 58th.'My biggest dream is to play in the Masters for which I need to get into the top 50,' said Jeev, who arrived here in the early hours on Tuesday from St. Andrews, Scotland after a stop-over in Qatar for a sponsor clinic.With some scintillating overseas performances this year, Jeev is looking to end a title drought at home by winning the $1 million Hero Honda Indian Open. Jeev finished tied fifth at the British Masters and was tied 11th at the Mercedes-Benz Championship recently. He also won the Bank of Austria Open in June this year before finishing tied ninth at the Barclays Scottish Open.'I have not played well in India. Last year I finished 13th here. For sometime I was not sure whether I would be able to play with my ankle injury, but fortunately, all worked out and here I am,' he said.'Every time I come here I give my best. I have come close a few times but hopefully I can end that wait soon. People say its my backyard but the results show that I havent gardened it well, so to say,' said the 37-year-old with a smile.Talking about the Delhi Golf Club, Jeev said, 'It is always a tough course in the sense that it can penalise you heavily if you stray. Though, the less I know about the course the better. I hope to make a game plan only after playing the Pro-Am tomorrow,' he said.The Chandigarh-based golfer felt conditions at the Alfred Dunhill Links Championship  where he finished tied 24th  were the toughest he had ever played in. 'It was freezing cold (-3 degrees celsius) and winds blowing at 30 miles per hour. I was wearing thermals, a T-shirt, a jacket and cashmere alongwith rain pants, hand warmers and key gloves that I used before every shot and was still feeling cold. Can you imagine?' he asked.Asked whether he has plans of bringing any changes to his game, he said: 'I have been working on some new swing movements with my close pal Amritender and hope to use it when I feel it has got perfect.'
