 WENTWORTH GOLF CLUBSATURDAY at Wentworth was round one, day one of the 36 hole Jim Lovick Trophy and the club 4Ball Championships and it was sponsored by Murray Gilchrist Hotel Broker. In these pages last week I tipped Craig Stojanovic and Geoff Wright for scratch honours and they duly delivered. Please note those among you who claim mention here as the kiss of death.I had a close up of the handicap best pairing of Stan Streatfield and Brian Kellett playing in the same group. A hiccup on the fifth with both losing balls saw Brian Kellett use his handicap to advantage to glean one point with the second ball to give them 47 points. Locked up behind them were four pairs on 46 points.The best of these in a countback was Mr Manly Wayne Newton and the in form Tom Hurford in third place, again on a countback, Tim White who eagled the eighth which was not the McArdle Space Age Carpet Cleaning eagle hole, and Bruce Cousins on 46 countback.The ball cut 44 on a countback was made by Peter Warren and Darrel Hisken, while the long drives were taken out by Jamie Newman, Rod Cole and Jock Selwood.The second and final 18 holes of the Jim Lovick Trophy will be played at Wentworth tomorrow sponsored by National Australia Bank and it is also the final of the club 4Ball Championships. Obviously last weeks aforementioned podium finishers are in the box seat for outright honours, but golf being the game it is, there are many with a chance as a hot run in a 4 ball game can produce significant points in quick time.I expect Craig Stojanovic and Geoff Wright to throw out the challenge again. For those of us where outright victory seems out of the question tomorrow is a separate competition. I note that Dave Keegan reunites in this one with Bede Rooster Hiney - they are out early and could figure. The pairing of Terry Wilkins and Dennis Campbell also look a duo most likely.The Mendham duo of young Tyler and Andrew are expected to put in a forward showing here, while Kev Ekerick and Chris Riley will be on hand for the presentation and post-match ambience. They may even put their hand up for Mr Movember, the moustache growing contest to raise funds for the fight against prostate cancer and male depression. For details contact Craig Stojanovic or Michelle Cook.Keep an eye outLooking ahead as we move into November, Saturday 1st is Monthly Medal time sponsored by Greengate Butchery, Dawn and Brian Mendham.Also on a Wentworth on Saturday, October 18 was the Business Womens stableford round, won for the 0-27 handicap division by Karen Newton on 42 very good points. Along the way she gleaned two NTPs. The runner-up on 35 points was Dawn Roberts.Among the 28+ brigade Di Martin on 37 was best ahead of Helen Jeuken fresh from a northern odyssey on 34. The long drives went to Vicki Bray and Val Gregory, a NTP and Drive n Pitch to Lou Stevens. For a round with these girls who really enjoy a game, just turn up on the day.On Sunday it was a good field who turned out for the mixed foursomes No Sorries Championships. On occasion, the no-sorries clause was fully tested.At rounds end after 27 enjoyable holes the trophy went to Lou Stevens and Craig Stojanovic with 119. In the handicap Sandy Moore and Joel Diduszko clicked to the tune of 98  , while the runner-up pair of Jan Duff and Craig Coles netted 102 . The NTPs went to Wayne Newton and Marg Fisher.This weeks Sunday afternoon open round is a 4BBB stableford, sponsored by National Australia Bank.Christmas shopping for the golfer will be made easy - just front up to Wenty on November 26 for the Calloway demo day.Ladies will be backThe associates struck a patch of winter on Wednesday, but assure me they will be out in force next week for an individual stableford round.On Tuesday the competition is always on and open to all. This week over nine holes Nick Fitzpatrick did best on 20 points while the 14 holes were taken out by Norm Slattery on 31.The other open mid-week opportunity presents on Thursday. If you are early, say 9am, you can get a game with The Honest Blokes and Whoever in the stableford with a 4ball in conjunction and NTPs all for just $12. Among the best last week in a tight go Mr Shoemaker Peter Single on 34 points. It is easy on Thursday.
