Eric Baker's letter ('More variety is needed on the High Street,' Chronicle, October 23) about three adjacent shops in Hounslow High Street selling identical goods is not the worst aspect of the High Street.Over many years I have seen it deteriorate to becoming the last place I will go to shop if I can avoid it, with virtually no shops of quality.Without wishing to be too nostalgic I will hark back 40 years to when we had a car show-room just across the road from the bus garage, King's Motors, where I bought my first decent car. Long gone.At the other end of the same stretch of shops and later on was that excellent toy shop Poultons, something we don't have now and also long gone.Across the road we had C&amp;amp;A and there were two good furniture shops, Times Furnishing and John Perrings, all long gone.What was British Home Stores is now the cheapo store Primark. The nearest BHS is eight miles away in Staines. There was a traditional department store in the shape of Edmonds, which my two young sons used to call, 'The shop with the toys on top' as the toy department was on the top floor - a Boots shop for many years now.The ladies had a quality ladies' wear shop, Richards, while the gents had John Collier's on the corner of Montague Road. Nearby was Trebles, which sold curtaining and all kinds of materials. This later became Littlewoods, again now long gone. At the beginning of the Staines Road there was a superb Co-op store, now an office block.Other places of interest in the High Street were the Gas Board and the Electricity Board and the pub in the centre of the High Street, the Red Lion, a Barclays bank for a good many years now. A nice little eating place for my family then was the Bacon and Egg, or latterly the Egg Nest.I could go on but what is so disappointing is the total lack of quality shops and the huge amount of mobile phone shops.We even have the suggestion of a Tesco store at the east end of the High Street - quite frankly the last thing we need. Tesco, in my own humble opinion, is simply a virulent disease spreading its tentacles ever further. If we need any kind of store it ought to be Sainsburys.As for that dreadful development at the back of the High Street, the Blenheim Centre, that should never have been approved. It is such an eyesore.Can nothing be done to improve matters? Let's have some quality for goodness sake.BRIAN WELLSTED Westwick Gardens, Cranford
