WASHINGTON, Feb 12 (Reuters) - Federal oversight of national banks' lending activities was defended by a top U.S. banking regulator on Thursday who questioned a Congressional watchdog's recommendation that those banks should follow state consumer protection laws. Comptroller of the Currency John Dugan said the Congressional Oversight Panel's recent report 'creates inaccurate impressions' about the robustness of state protections and the supposed failures of federal regulators to monitor national banks' activities. 'The overwhelming preponderance of toxic subprime mortgages were originated by companies subject only to state regulation,' Dugan said in a letter to Elizabeth Warren, who chairs the panel.  Dugan's agency, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, oversees some of the largest national banks such as Bank of America and Citigroup.  The Congressional Oversight Panel said in its report last month that lawmakers should eliminate rules that can shield national banks from state consumer protection laws.  Federal preemption rules allow national banks to follow federal laws regulating bank activities, rather than state laws.  The report said state laws often provide more robust consumer protections and that federal regulators have failed to enforce strict enough standards for national banks that do not have to follow certain state laws. 'Yet, despite promises to Congress and the states, federal regulators have made the problem worse by failing to provide any significant supervision or regulation on their own,' the report said. Dugan said the report is incomplete and fails to reference the 'many, many federal consumer protection laws, rules, and supervisory guidance applicable to national banks.' He said that of the 21 firms with the highest number of subprime mortgage foreclosures in the areas with the highest foreclosure rates, 12 firms were exclusively supervised by the states. 'As Congress considers changes in law and policy to remedy present problems, it is essential to provide a complete and objective analysis that permits readers to reach their own conclusions on a fully informed basis,' Dugan said. 
