Challenger Financial Group CEO Dominic Stevens and CFO Brian Benari talk to Business Spectator's Isabelle Oderberg to explain: Also what I mean by repairs in the market is that effectively the financial market got to a stage where they were broken and really only governments could borrow to any term around that time. Now, thats starting to fix itself, but effectively I think thats going to take a little bit of time. Certainly if you look at say credit spread theyre at such an incredibly wide level. The other day CBA issued about $2.75 billion of paper; $2.5 billion was government guaranteed and they could get $250 million away of the non-government guarantee, so you can see the big issue there is around the guarantee, I think. At the moment fixed income investors are very focused on the guarantee and the reason why is because they can get it, so if I was them I would also do that. Whilst the banks have been given a sort of irrevocable guarantee, maybe it might interesting to actually extend that to RMBS and the reason why I say that is because RMBS is actually higher rated than bank paper, so it shouldnt be a sort of like a credit issue and secondly, which I think is important, is that when you actually guarantee issuance from banks what happens is the banks borrow that money or as whats happened overseas, the banks have been taking in equity capital from the government. Then the question is: will the banks actually lend that off. I think what we think is that if you actually guarantee securitisation what that means is every dollar that you guarantee by definition, because all youre guaranteeing is a trust; its got nothing to do with Challenger, goes directly to Australian homeowner. So effectively, if you guarantee $10 billion of securitisation, $10 billion worth of home loans are getting to the community, so youre sort of jumping right to the problem which is effectively on the asset side, so&amp; I think youre right in saying that theres no quick fix to the economy and things are going to be tough for a while, but I would say particularly on credit where most of our assets are&amp;around 70 per cent of our portfolio is in credit assets. I think well certainly see a moderation and I also think if you look at the other large piece of our portfolio, which is actually property, really if you delve into the Challenger story youll find that the property we have is predominantly sort of like boring properties to long term lease holders like the government. The reason why we buy those is really they perform like property and so the best way to think about that is if you have a property that has no tenant in it its like property equity, but if you have a property that has a government rental for 30 years its just a series of cash flows for 30 years and the value of the property doesnt actually take up much of the valuation because really its like a bond. You can rely on these cash flows. What is disappointing is probably a little bit out of our control and that is firstly the fact that the stock market has come down such that our fund levels are down. Weve been affected by what I guess in inverted commas youd call the unintended consequences of the governments move to guarantee bank deposits.It made them more difficult to keep open, but were in the midst of a withdrawal period there and we will see how that sort of pans out. For 2003 to 2007 we made a whole lot of money above what we were reporting to the market and now in a down market, well give back some of that and that makes sense to me, but the important thing is to ask, from year-to-year, whether the value of this business is actually a reflection of the underlying cash earnings coming out.
