From the Fool blog  Ed Bowsher  Published in Credit Cards on 16 February 2009  0   comments  Half a million users of Egg Visa and Egg Money cards are in for a shock as Egg raises its yearly interest rate by up to 7%, despite Bank base rate being at a record low.  Users of Egg Visa and Egg Money MasterCard will be scrambling for the exits today, after the news of a hefty rate rise by the credit-card issuer. With effect from 6 March, more than 550,300 Egg cardholders will see their interest rate rise. Borrowers will see their yearly interest rate rise by up to 7% APR, with the maximum rate leaping to a whopping 25.9% APR.  A bad Egg?  This isnt the first time that Egg has left its customers boiling with anger. Last February, the card issuer closed the accounts of 161,000 customers, claiming that they were too risky (although at least three millionaires were affected, see Egg Cancels 161k Credit Cards). In August, in More Pain For Egg Customers, I warned that Eggs typical APR was to leap from 7.9% to 12.9% APR, plus its transaction fees for cash and foreign purchases were set to rise.  On average, these Egg customers will see their annual interest rate rise by almost 4.4% APR, with the biggest rate hike being 7%. Egg customers who dont wish to pay their new higher rate can cancel their credit card and repay the outstanding balance at their existing rate. These cardholders will not be able to spend on their card, and their account will be closed when the balance reaches zero. On the other hand, Egg has cut rates for 120,000 of its two million cardholders.  Has Egg cracked?  It does seem unfair that credit-card companies are increasing their interest rates in a period when the Bank of England has slashed its base rate from 5% in October to an all-time low of 1% today. However, Egg clearly needs to rebuild its profitability as it copes with from increasing levels of bad debt.  This series of credit crackdowns suggests that Egg hasnt been performing well since it was bought in May 2007 for close to 550 million by giant US bank Citigroup. Since Eggs takeover by Citigroup, banks have lost hundreds of billions of pounds in a global credit crunch. Hence, Egg is cracking down on credit limits and interest rates -- a move which affects its best payers, as well as riskier borrowers.  In some cases, existing Egg customers will be charged an APR of 26.9% on new purchases and existing balances. Given that a typical credit card charges under 18% a year, Egg is now at the pricey end of the market. Thus, if youre unhappy with Eggs latest rate rise, then its time to vote with your feet -- especially if your personal circumstances havent changed and you resent this rate hike.  Time to get poached?  Egg is still advertising for new customers, offering a typical rate on purchases of 16.9% APR, which must be offered to at least two-thirds of successful applicants. Therefore, it seems that the lender is clearing out unprofitable and high-risk cardholders while seeking to replace them with shiny, new customers.  Then again, this cuts both ways, as credit-card companies offering 0% balance transfers will be happy to poach Egg customers with good credit records. However, full payers (those who always repay their entire balance in full each month) may stick with Egg Money, because it offers an attractive 1% cashback on all purchases.  In summary, my advice would be not to take Eggs blow on the chin. Instead, you can dodge its latest rate hike by cancelling your credit card and repaying your existing balance at the old rate. Even better, by transferring your existing Egg balance to a 0% card, you can avoid interest for up to sixteen months (on payment of a one-off transfer fee of around 3%).  Finally, I apologise for all the puns (boiled, scrambled, poached, etc.), but Egg has always been the top brand for financial yolks -- I mean jokes!  Many thanks to Dr Martyn Saville of Which? magazine for his help with this article.  More: Find a cracking credit card   Blitz Your Debts In One Easy Step   Steer Clear Of Secured Loans  
