 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year.It's a disease that frightens us all.Many of you have been asking questions about a device we showed during our 'Breast Cancer: The Journey' special Wednesday night.The HALO Breast Pap Test is like a pap smear for breasts. It takes fluid samples to detect changes in cells.Some of you wanted to know if any local doctors have one. Unfortunately, the answer is no.We called the company that makes the machine. The closest office with a HALO is near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.NeoMatrix says doctors and patients can check the machine out on their website, www.neomatrix.com. They encourage women to talk to their doctors about it. To learn more you can call 1-877-425-6727 etx. 114. More than 180,000 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year. It's a disease that frightens us all. Many of you have been asking questions about a device we showed during our 'Breast Cancer: The Journey' special Wednesday night. The HALO Breast Pap Test is like a pap smear for breasts. It takes fluid samples to detect changes in cells. Some of you wanted to know if any local doctors have one. Unfortunately, the answer is no. We called the company that makes the machine. The closest office with a HALO is near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. NeoMatrix says doctors and patients can check the machine out on their website, www.neomatrix.com. They encourage women to talk to their doctors about it. To learn more you can call 1-877-425-6727 etx. 114.  The freshman was caught with a loaded .38-caliber pistol in his book bag.YOUR TAKE: Are kids becoming too violent?Greensboro Police received a call about a 'suspicious package' in the AIG Insurance building in downtown.A man with two small boys punched the 16-year-old girl after arguing over who was first in line.The decomposing body found in Winston-Salem has been identified as the boyfriend of a woman arrested for the murder.Fossett's plane went down over a year ago in the Sierra Nevada mountains.
