Construction on a new parking garage in St. George began Monday, but not everyone in the area is happy. NY1's Robert Moses filed the following report.A construction worker spray-painted some bad news on a concrete barrier at the municipal parking lot in St. George on Monday: 'Parking Closed.'In other words, finding a parking spot in St. George just got harder.'It took me 25 minutes driving around and I finally found a lot four blocks away,' said Larry Ambrosino, the executive director of SINY, a non-profit organization that promotes Staten Island's cultural institutions.Construction workers lowered Jersey barriers into place to frame the site of a new 660-car parking garage. A new courthouse will also be built.The beginning of construction on the garage means the temporary elimination of more than 300 parking spots. That's not good news for those in the area who depend on revenue from customers who drive.'We love the idea of the economic growth, of the courthouse being built. We love this idea of a new tiered parking lot,' said Doreen Cugno, who helps run the non-profit organization that operates the St. George Theatre on Hyatt Street. 'However, during the time that it's going to be in construction, it could hurt us. It could hurt us severely. We are very concerned if we could survive in the future.''Especially for the holidays coming up  the Christmas holidays and Valentine's Day  people are going to pass me by,' said Richard Grande, who owns Grand Florals on Hyatt Street. 'They're not going to keep circling.'Some St. George residents say they're afraid this project will make for an even bigger traffic and parking nightmare than normal.'It's bad enough,' said Cherokee Gubitosi, a St. George resident. 'There's traffic as it is on my block because my block is a one-way block and you got cars that speed up and down the blocks as it is. But this construction site going up, it's going to make it even worse.''Parking as it is is inconvenient, you know, for us -- the people who live over here in this neighborhood,' said Sonia Pizicas, also of St. George. 'But I think it's going to be worse.'A spokesman for the mayor's office says he's aware the project creates a parking crunch, which is why the parking garage is being built before the courthouse.He also says other parking places will be provided at the St. George ferry terminal, Richmond County Bank ballpark and, in November, near the St. George Theatre.
