SYDNEY, Nov 5 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar erased the    previous day&amp;#039;s losses to trade near two-week highs against the    U.S. dollar and the yen on Wednesday, boosted by firmer    commodities and improved risk appetite.    * Investors unwound some safe-haven investments on    expectations that steep rate cuts by global central banks could    help the world economy skirt a recession. Interbank lending rates    also fell, reflecting an easing in the extreme risk aversion that    afflicted financial markets in the past two months.    * The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut the cash rate by 75    basis points to 5.25 percent, more than expectations of a 50    basis point cut. The Bank of England and the European Central    Bank are also expected to lower rates on Thursday as they try to    cushion their economies from the threat of a looming recession.    * The latest cut by the RBA comes just days after the U.S.    Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan lowered rates. The Fed has    also been establishing swap lines with other central banks to    ease some of the tight funding conditions in financial markets.    * By 9:25 a.m. (2225 GMT), the Aussie had risen to    $0.6995 against the U.S. dollar, from $0.6638 late here on    Tuesday when it fell after the RBA&amp;#039;s rate cut.    * Also offering the Aussie support was a surge in    commodities. The CRB commodities index rallied 5.34    percent on Tuesday, having slumped last month on mounting worries    about falling demand in a global downturn. Australia is a major    exporter of resources.    * The Aussie rose to 69.59 yen from 65.52 yen late    here on Tuesday, as investors returned to riskier assets like    stocks and leveraged carry trades. Wall Street stocks rallied on    Tuesday on relief that the U.S. election process was coming to an    end.    * Investors are keeping a watch on the U.S. presidential    election, although stocks are factoring in a win by Democrat    Barack Obama.    * Domestic data on Wednesday includes trade and buildings    approval figures for September. A Reuters poll showed market    forecasts centred on a trade surplus of A$600 million ($420    million), with estimates ranging from a deficit of A$500 million    to a surplus of A$1.1 billion. Building approvals are likely to    be subdued.    * Demand in the economy has been slowing in recent months and    the government is likely to release its mid-year budget review    later on Wednesday. It could cut growth and inflation forecasts,    to reflect the global credit crunch.    * Australian bond futures were lower as safe-haven inflows    took a breather. But bill futures for December extended    gains as investors priced in chances of more rate cuts by the    year-end from the RBA.    * Three-year bond futures shed 0.02 points to 95.675, while    the 10-year futures contract fell 0.07 points to 94.66.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by Jonathan Standing)    Keywords: MARKETS AUSTRALIA DOLLAR/BONDS    (anirban.nag@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1871; Reuters Messaging: anirban.nag.reuters.com@reuters.net )    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
