Unemployment is rising as businesses and the public sector try to cut costs. It's a tough job market  and for those who have been out of work for half a year or longer, it can be even rougher.  'If somebody wasn't doing anything for over six months, that's a trigger in my mind,' said Brandi Britton, who's been reviewing resumes and managing hiring for nearly nine years. She is the vice president for the staffing company OfficeTeam, a unit of Robert Half International Inc.  To keep your resume competitive, Britton said, emphasize your skills over your job situation. She recommends altering your resume to a 'functional' format, listing your skills and accomplishments first, and then jobs and dates of employment as bullet points under, say, meeting sales goals.  In an interview, address the gap in employment honestly.  'People need to be prepared to answer the question as to why they left,' Britton said. 'They need to speak confidently about it but not necessarily labor on for a long period of time.'  While you're on the hunt for a new position, stay busy. Take a class to brush up on software skills or a foreign language that will build your resume.  Volunteer work also can be beneficial: Lending your talents to a nonprofit will not only keep you working but also help you network, Britton said.  Applying to work through a temp agency can also be a stopgap measure that brings in income while you're jobless.  The price of travel  The cost of drinks? OK. Economy-class ticket prices? Livable. But baggage fees? Unconscionable.  A recent survey asked U.S. adults which airplane costs and experiences were most irksome and which industries catered best to customers.  Baggage fees were a 'rip-off' to 78 percent of those polled. And 76 percent thought charges to redeem loyalty points and frequent-flier miles were too costly.  But 61 percent found the cost of an on-board alcoholic drink 'reasonable,' and 70 percent deemed the price of an economy-class ticket 'reasonable.'  On fuel surcharge fees, respondents were split at 47 percent between 'rip-off' and 'reasonable.'  The extra fees for baggage are particularly upsetting because they are new and can quickly add up, said Bruce Speechley, an executive for IBM's consulting business, which conducted the survey. Those extra charges for redeeming frequent-flier miles are irksome because those programs are complicated to begin with, he said.  As for ticket prices, consumers are satisfied because they can hunt for the lowest fares over the Internet.  'The traveling public have got smart ... perfect information is at the fingertips of anyone traveling. Consumers are more informed and collaborative,' Speechley said.  And their traveling experiences aren't terrible either. While 20 percent said they had missed a connecting flight because of delays and 16 percent had lost luggage while traveling in the past 12 months, 46 percent reported no major travel headaches.  The telephone survey of 1,000 randomly selected U.S. adults was conducted from Oct. 25-27. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Give your thank-yous  Last year, nearly 38 percent of wealthy givers stopped donating money to an organization they had supported in the past. It wasn't because of a dwindling stock portfolio, though.  A survey found that nearly 58 percent said they no longer felt personally connected to the organization, while about 51 percent said they decided to donate elsewhere. About 42 percent blamed too-frequent requests for money.  Philanthropists also had demands for the organizations they supported. Nearly 93 percent expect sound business practices, 84 percent wanted receipts and 57 percent expect thank-you notes.  The Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University conducted the random survey by mail of 680 U.S. adults with a household income of more than $200,000 or net worth of at least $1 million in July and August. It was commissioned by Bank of America Corp.  
