In an e-mail to a close friend on Sept. 14, I signed off rather glibly: 'Btw, it's possible that the U.S. financial markets could collapse on Monday. Thought you might want to know.' No, I don't have a mole in the Treasury Department. I didn't know that Merrill Lynch would be acquired by Bank of America that very evening or that Lehman Brothers would file for bankruptcy the next day.  Nor did I know that the friend to whom I sent that e-mail would be laid off just after Thanksgiving.  I had simply been paying attention, and it was, well, obvious that our economy was teetering on the brink.  Two weeks ago, I got a very nice e-mail from a local Realtor who congratulated me on being 'ahead of the curve' with my warnings during the past two years about the looming problems in the area's housing market.  I like fan mail as much as anyone, but as I've noted here before, it didn't exactly take a genius to see the numbers deteriorating in mid-2007 or see the warning signs far earlier. In retrospect, I wasn't nearly aggressive enough in stating the reasons for concern.  So what numbers am I watching now?  In addition to the real estate data I discussed two weeks ago, I'm also keeping a close watch on the employment numbers and on population estimates.  As I've discussed before, there's a great deal of disagreement about our current population.  Most local political and business leaders think the census has undercounted us in the past. And they have placed considerable faith in projections for extremely fast growth during the next few decades.  If they're correct about our robust growth, then we'll work our way out of the current downturn more speedily than many other cities.  But those projections were largely based on housing starts, which have slowed dramatically and are not likely to rebound any time soon.  And keep in mind that retail sales in Chatham County have been slumping for the past two years, not exactly a sign of a growing population.  But there are other signs that are even more worrisome, and nothing is troubling me more than the deteriorating job market.  According to the Georgia Department of Labor, the Savannah metro area (Chatham, Bryan and Effingham counties) has lost 2,800 jobs in the past year. (That obviously doesn't take into account widespread decreases in hours, wages, commissions and tips.)  If you think that's bad, wait until January, which under the best of circumstances is a weak month for employment.  The current job market is obviously not going to attract many new residents who need to work. More importantly, many un- or under-employed area residents are no doubt searching for jobs elsewhere.  Despite grim employment numbers in larger cities, job seekers are going to gravitate to places where they see the most opportunities.  Anecdotally, it seems we have also lost a fair number of Latino residents who migrated here to work in the construction industry.  Now, I'm sure some readers are thinking it's probably good if some foreign-born workers have left the area. After all, some are in the country illegally and therefore 'take American jobs' and 'don't pay taxes.' But illegal workers who are using false documentation often pay payroll taxes for which they will never receive refunds and pay for Social Security and Medicare benefits they will never tap into.  They also pay sales taxes.  Perhaps most importantly, given the nature of the current crisis, Latino workers - legal or illegal - occupy housing units and therefore pay property taxes by means of rent.  (By the way, the most reliable information out there suggests illegal immigration to the U.S. has decreased. According to the Pew Hispanic Center, the numbers have fallen dramatically since 2000, from 800,000 illegal immigrants per year coming to the U.S. to 500,000 more recently.)  But what about all those baby boomer retirees who are supposed to be headed our way?  According to last week's release by the Pew Research Center, 'Only 13 percent of Americans changed residences between 2006 and 2007, the smallest share since the government began tracking this trend in the late 1940s.' Still, according to U.S. Census data released just last week, the population of Georgia (no specific estimates yet for metro areas) grew at a healthy pace of 1.7 percent.  But that's down from 2.2 percent the previous year and 2.5 percent the year before that.  Small changes like these are hugely important when it comes to long-range planning.  Now, we can simply assume mobility will again accelerate as the housing slump ends and the stock market rebounds. And we can still cling to the notion that we're so unique as to be immune from these national trends.  But here at City Talk, we're more assured by cold, hard numbers than we are by fluffy optimism. (We are not feeling very sentimental these days.)  And if we continue to lose jobs for a period of months, we could enter our own little deflationary spiral. Fewer jobs, less income, fewer retail sales, fewer jobs, less income, fewer home purchases, lower home prices, more foreclosures, and so on.  As we enter 2009, nothing looks more important than job creation and retention.  City Talk appears every Sunday and Tuesday. Bill Dawers can be reached at billdawers@comcast.net. Send mail to 10 E. 32nd St., Savannah, GA 31401.
