: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Kevin Rudd  TWO million Australian families and four million pensioners will soon get their lump sum payments under the Government's Economic Security Strategy.  Families and pensioners who are receiving these payments deserve some financial help in the middle of a global recession. They are the ones who are doing it toughest.  My message to families and pensioners receiving these payments is that they should spend the money to help make ends meet.  By spending, these pensioners and families will help inject billions of dollars into the economy - supporting jobs, businesses and the entire Australian economy.  We are giving $3.9 billion to provide immediate financial support to two million families, eligible for Family Tax benefit A, bringing up about 3.9 million children.  The support will be a one-off payment of $1000 for each eligible child in your care. Those whose dependents receive Youth Allowance, Abstudy or a benefit from the Veterans Children's Education Scheme will also receive these payments.  The Government is also providing a $4.8 billion down-payment to Australia's four million pensioners, carers, seniors and veterans. The lump sum payments will be $1400 for singles and $2100 for couples.  People who are receiving Carer Allowance will also receive $1000 for each eligible person for whom they care.  Most families will receive their full payment automatically in the fortnight beginning tomorrow on each family's regular family tax benefit payment day. These payments will be completed by December 19.  The Government is doing its part with these payments. And the Reserve Bank has also helped by cutting interest rates by three percentage points since September, giving families about $600 a month more in their pockets on the average $300,000 mortgage.  My conversations with ordinary Australians, and the comments in emails and letters people send me, tell me that these payments are going to be spent in ways that will make a real difference for many Australians this Christmas.  I've heard people say they're going to use the payments to buy Christmas presents for the kids and grandkids - presents that they otherwise just weren't going to be able to buy.  Some families say they can now plan a couple of special days out with their kids. Some families are using the payments to get the car fixed, repairs at home, or replace an old appliance.  The Government has been upfront with the Australian people that this global crisis will affect growth and it will affect jobs.  We're dealing with a tough economic environment ... and we will continue to take whatever further steps are necessary to support growth, jobs and businesses in the interest of all Australians.  
