transition is complicating the discussions:  Congressional Democrats on Sunday were weighing options for tight government control of the crippled American auto industry, including the possible creation of an oversight board made up of five cabinet secretaries and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, and led by an independent chairman or "car czar."   While the form of oversight was still being negotiated by Congressional Democrats and the White House late Sunday, the talks made clear the extent to which the auto companies would have to submit to substantial government supervision in order to receive a taxpayerfinanced bailout. Whatever oversight entity is created, it would direct the drastic reorganization plans that the auto companies have said they were willing to undertake in exchange for billions of dollars in shortterm government loans to keep them in business, according to a senior Congressional aide. A main factor complicating the deliberations was the imminent transition between the Bush and Obama administrations. UPDATE on 1/07 at 11:PM:  adds that part of the plan could include forcing GM, Chrysler and Ford to oust their top executives: Congressional Democrats are drafting legislation that would give the teetering Detroit automakers at least $15 billion in emergency loans early next week and grant the federal government broad authority to manage a massive restructuring of their operations.   The proposal, which could be put to a vote in Congress as soon as tomorrow, would establish a sevenmember "auto board" of Cabinet officials and a chairman to be appointed by President Bush to oversee both the shortterm loans and a longterm effort to restore the faltering industry to profitability. If the companies take the cash, they would be accountable to the government for nearly every move, and for every transaction of $5 million or more. As part of that restructuring, General Motors, Chrysler and Ford could be asked to jettison their top executives, one of the chief architects of the plan, Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher J. Dodd (DConn.), said yesterday. Stating bluntly that "GM is in the worst shape" of the three auto giants, Dodd said that GM chairman G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the company's chief since 000, "has to move on."   Throughout the weekend, Congressional negotiators and their White House counterparts tried to iron out their differences and reach an agreement on the specifics of a plan to bail out the Big Three of the automotive industry:  reports: White House and congressional negotiators sought on Sunday to remove remaining differences over an emergency rescue for the struggling auto industry, a stark symbol of the deepening U.S. economic crisis.   Prodded by shock unemployment figures which showed the country shed more than half a million jobs in November alone, negotiators tried to forge an agreement in principle to provide "The Big Three" American automakers with at least $15 billion in shortterm loans. The Senate is due back in session on Monday and negotiators hope to have a package ready that can be quickly approved and sent to President George W. Bush as one of the last measures he signs into law before Democrat Barack Obama succeeds him as president on January 0.  The s White House and congressional negotiators sought on Sunday to remove remaining differences over an emergency rescue for the struggling auto industry, a stark symbol of the deepening U.S. economic cris... White House and congressional negotiators sought on Sunday to remove remaining differences over an emergency rescue for the struggling auto industry, a stark symbol of the deepening U.S. economic cris...      huffington_post:http://www.huffingtonpost.com/008/1/07/bushdemocratsseektofi_n_14911.html    (BOOKMARKSNIFF.runstate.visitedlinks[''])  .topicName 'The .topicDir  93 Pending  0 FAQ:  and Moderation   You must be  to comment of this article.  or   Want to reply to a comment? Hint: Click "" at the bottom of the after being approved your comment will appear directly underneath the comment you replied to View : Newest First Oldest First HuffPost's Picks Expand All Collapse All Page: 1    ( pages total)   Lupin77   I'm a fan of this user  As part of the bailout plan all of the current CEO's involved in the car companies should be kicked out. The money should be taken out of the 700B already allocated to help the economy. Excuse me, but this is the sort of situation which should be fixed with that money. We need to end the war also and that will give us a trillion dollars a year to work with.    Posted 09:10 PM on 1/07/008   judgej   I'm a fan of this user  Whatever Congress does to bailout the auto industry it absolutely has to condition it on having no more layoffs of workers. Execs can go, those who approved and designed the gas guzzlers can go, those in the pocket of big oil all these years can go, but please do not lay off any more workers. Having people out of work is not going to improve the economy in the long term and in the short term it is destructive to the fabric of this country.    Posted 10:18 PM on 1/07/008   StellaDuBois   I'm a fan of this user  No can do  the problem is overcapacity  plants have to go in order to right size.    Posted 10:47 PM on 1/07/008   ErnestineBass   I'm a fan of this user  YES YES YES!!! Thank you, Lupin77.    Posted 09:40 PM on 1/07/008   backroads   I'm a fan of this user  With all of the record profits, it seems to me that "big oil" should fund the bailout. They will continue to be the big winners.    Posted 09:07 PM on 1/07/008   progressivelady   I'm a fan of this user  I think Exxon, Shell, Chevron &amp;amp; Mobil Should  The big 3 after all they have all been in bed together for the last 8 year's or more since this administration said there was NO evidence of Global Warming, and all those exec's should be fired, let's not forget we have had a OIL MAN for President the last 8 year's    Posted 09:06 PM on 1/07/008   HumeSkeptic   I'm a fan of this user  I wish they could find a creative way to take money from the $650 Billion DoD budget. Make this a national security issue. Why not? Every other f*ck!ng thing is now a national security issue, including the price of oil. Why not this? .    Posted 08:30 PM on 1/07/008   GrkAm   I'm a fan of this user  Hume . . . LOL! But a very good point.    Posted 08:35 PM on 1/07/008   HumeSkeptic   I'm a fan of this user  We now spend more on defense than the rest of the world combined. I think that's a bit much.    Posted 08:50 PM on 1/07/008 There are More  on this Thread. Click Here To See them All   BobinPgh   I'm a fan of this user  Because it really is not a national security issue, there are already companies like National Defense Systems in York, PA that build armored vehicles and several others like that company. The only people I think who would suffer from a GM bankrupcy might be funeral directors  what will they do without Cadillac?!    Posted 08:35 PM on 1/07/008   HumeSkeptic   I'm a fan of this user  And there are companies drilling for oil. What has that got to do with it? Declare excessive jobless rate as a national security issue. I don't care. .    Posted 08:41 PM on 1/07/008 There are More  on this Thread. Click Here To See them All   BobinPgh   I'm a fan of this user  Except for miserable (but very high paying!) jobs what are we saving with all this money? Really, what has GM done for humanity besides hype people into buying expensive, high maintanence, polluting, unsafe, and unreliable machines that drain people' bank accounts.    Posted 08:30 PM on 1/07/008   ErnestineBass   I'm a fan of this user  Question is...  ...is that the fault of management (who guide the boat), or those who simply man the oars?    Posted 08:48 PM on 1/07/008   BobinPgh   I'm a fan of this user  Actually I don't know. I wonder why the UAW has not said anything about the product they are working on. I hear about what a miserable job auto assembly is and have to wonder why not try to make the situation better (air conditioning, maybe not so repetitive) but nooooo, all they want is more money. Can the union make any suggestion about the cars? I don't think they even tried.    Posted 09:0 PM on 1/07/008 There are More  on this Thread. Click Here To See them All   clumberfeet   I'm a fan of this user  How to fix a car company:  Take money from customers and don't give them a car.  Brilliant!    Posted 08:3 PM on 1/07/008   bluekatz   I'm a fan of this user  Wait, they are already doing that. LOL    Posted 09:4 PM on 1/07/008   ReasonIsMyReligion   I'm a fan of this user  ROFL    Posted 08:40 PM on 1/07/008   HumeSkeptic   I'm a fan of this user  Thank you Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid. You have come through for our fellow citizens in need. If Republicans want to call it a victory or whatever for Bush, let them. If they still want to play the meaningless slogan game (Bridge loan to nowhere), let them.  Their days are numbered.   The important thing right now is to save those jobs, even temporarily, till better solutions can be found.  . .    Posted 08: PM on 1/07/008   ErnestineBass   I'm a fan of this user  Yes, and the important thing on September 8th was to keep the banking industry from collapsing.  This would be laughable, Hume, if it were funny.    Posted 08:34 PM on 1/07/008   HumeSkeptic   I'm a fan of this user  No comment  simply because I know that your heart is in the right place and I feel bad making you look bad. So, I'll drop it.    Posted 08:47 PM on 1/07/008 There are More  on this Thread. Click Here To See them All   cadawa   I'm a fan of this user  What I want for Christmas is for Reid and Pelosi to be replaced.   There isn't a special interest they don't like.   Besides being enormously corrupt they are both weak leaders.   As long as they continue to lead the Democrats, the GOP minority will have the whip hand.    Posted 08: PM on 1/07/008   rockne   I'm a fan of this user  Pelosi and Reid are probably the two ...
