By BETTY MUNSEY/Columnist  Even our good natured mailman must dread the annual flood of Christmas cards and packages he must sort and deliver between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Thankfully he drives most of his route as opposed to his city counterparts who beat the pavement carrying their heavy mailbags.  Our first Christmas card arrived the day after Thanksgiving and always comes from a childhood friend who prides herself on having her cards addressed and stamped before the Thanksgiving turkey is carved. Our last card often arrives in mid-January from another childhood friend who never quite gets around to sending her holiday cards until well into the New Year.  I cherish both friendships and look forward to receiving their yearly updates, which often contains pictures of their children and grandchildren. Short handwritten notes take us back to the splendors of shared childhoods so often forgotten in our adult roles.  More than 1.9 billion Christmas cards were mailed in 2005, more than any other holiday; 1.4 million of those were mailed from the White House. Most greeting cards are Christian in nature and portray various aspects of that first Nativity. Kwanzaa and Hanukkah cards likewise offer an opportunity for diversity reflecting other faiths.  Christmas cards have a long history, dating back to 1843 when Sir Henry Cole commissioned hand-colored lithographs made for his use in London. Since that time Hallmark and other greeting card companies are smiling all the way to the bank. And as much as were concerned about our local mail carriers, the U. S. Postal Service depends on holiday sales to keep it in the black. If youre of a sentimental nature, you may have a special card or two tucked away in the bottom of a dresser drawer from an old boy or girl friend or better yet from your spouse during your courting days. Those early cards were often printed on heavier card stock, signed in fountain pen ink, and mailed with 10- or 20-cent stamps. They were postmarked before computer printers could rapidly spew out hundreds of address labels. Spots are all that remain of drops of Midnight in Paris perfume added to the card before sealing the envelope as a romantic touch. Its often shocking when reviewing the Christmas card list to see folks who are deceased, divorced or have moved during the past year. Yet one of the joys of receiving Christmas greetings is news of positive family changes such as marriages, births, graduations, job promotions and retirement reviews. Short updates are welcome whereas lengthy Christmas newsletters are best sent only to close friends and family who are familiar with those listed in the letter. Some folks are opting to call and visit by phone rather than buying cards and postage. Electronic cards are more the norm for the younger generation.  Last year I received several requests to provide information about an e-mail encouraging us to send cards to wounded soldiers or a recovering American soldier at Walter Reed Hospital. To verify the authenticity, I contacted Walter Reed Support Services and was informed that they do not accept cards without a specific persons name. Red Cross will accept cards (no packages) and distribute them to wounded military and their families across the U.S. if mailed to: American Red Cross Holiday Mail Call, P. O. Box 5456, Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5456. There are restrictions on what will be accepted and how many. Walter Reeds policy doesnt appear to have changed this year according to its Web site.  A retired Extension agent, Betty Munsey lives and farms in Bland County. 
