Everywhere you look there are signs that the economic crisis is pressuring consumers to be more tightfisted  and Im not just referring to the placards at retailers screaming 50% off or Going out of business. Javelin data shows that consumers are spending less, and when they do head to the checkout stand growing numbers are prudently reaching for their debit cards rather than credit cards.  Its too soon to tell if this trend is reversible, but its nonetheless troubling news for financial institutions that have relied on credit cards and reward programs for revenues. Previously, they counted on rewards to reel in new customers and hang on to existing customers. That formula will be under increasing stress in 2009, however, as fewer people reach for credit, fewer people qualify for credit, and cost-cutting financial institutions become less generous with rewards programs.  This is but one more reason were predicting that 2009 will be a year when bank-industry winners will be defined by their ability to attract deposits. In short, that unglamorous DDA account could be the key to survival.  The question is which financial institutions will consumers turn to? In 2008, the fear of bank failures ignited withdrawals that toppled Washington Mutual and Wachovia, giving Americans incentive to shop around. Among the winners are community banks and credit unions that did not expose themselves to the subprime meltdown and are now campaigning for deposits with offers of high-rate checking, lower fees and friendly service.  Its purely anecdotal, but I cant help but think there is a vibe and a message among the big-banks-are-bad reader comments appended to a USA Today story Monday citing evidence of a deposit boom at community banks and credit unions. For example:  Reddyteddy wrote: Just received my bank statement: $6.00 Service Fee, $0.61 interest with a balance of $5,100.00. Whats wrong with this picture?  Similarly, Somebodywhocares expressed a preference for a bank that charged 60 cents for an ATM transaction rather than $3 levied by Bank of America.  And another advised readers to try CheckingFinder.com to find community banks paying up to 7% on checking accounts.  Put it all together and I think 2009 adds up to a year when competition for deposits will be keen  and community banks and credit unions that aggressively play that game are likely to see deposits flow in. The question is whether those deposits will be hot money that is just being parked until better investment alternatives develop, or whether banks and credit unions can do what it takes to become the primary financial institution. The most successful players will have more than high CD rates to hook and hold these new customers. They will offer a combination of soundness, customer service, reasonable fees, and convenient access by all channels, with robust online banking as a centerpiece.  
