Latin American stocks rise on US bank hopes Latin American stocks rise on hopes US banks equipped to weather crisis Tuesday April 21, 2009, 5:40 pm EDT Buzz up! Print MEXICO CITY (AP) -- Latin American stocks were largely higher Tuesday as comments from the U.S. treasury secretary assured investors that most banks have enough capital to weather the ongoing economic crisis. Argentina's Merval climbed 2.3 percent to 1,220, while Chile's IPSA gained 1.3 percent to 2,670 and Peru's IGBVL rose 0.3 percent to 9,974. Colombia's IGBC index gained 0.1 percent as the government announced plans to seek a $10.4 billion credit line from the International Monetary Fund, increasing chances of interest rate cuts. The battered Colombian peso strengthened about 2 percent on the news. Mexico's IPC index fell 1.7 percent to 21,217, plunging in the last hour to its lowest close since April 8. A note from Citi Investment Research suggested that Mexico "looks overbought." The peso strengthened 2.1 percent to trade near 13.13 to the U.S. dollar. Brazil's Bovespa exchange was closed for a national holiday. Latin American stocks have been battered by the world economic crisis, which has slashed access to credit along with demand for the commodity exports on which many of the region's biggest companies rely. Currencies in Brazil and Mexico have lost more than a quarter of their value against the dollar amid the downturn, but recession in the region's top trading partner, the U.S., has kept exports from rebounding. Still, the 20 percent rally in U.S. stocks since March 9 has lifted Latin American equities, with the current pause in gains unlikely to yield steep losses, according to Citi Investment Research. "While such a pause is long overdue, we doubt any correction goes very far, nor do we think that investors should turn overly bearish," the note said. "This should prove to be a 'pause that refreshes.'" The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 1.6 percent to 7,970 in New York on Tuesday, as U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner told Congress that most banks have enough capital to weather the current crisis and that some could be allowed to repay financial bailout funds without risking an excessive contraction in credit available to the economy.
