   Look at past champions. The Celtics obtained Garnett for their championship last year and the Lakers obtained Gasol for their run to the Finals.The Spurs added 6 new players to their 2007 Champsionship team, in addition to guys like Finley, Barry, Horry, and Bowen who were not drafted by them. The Heat obtained Shaq and won the title in 2006. The Pistons obtained Rasheed Wallace for their title run.  Good teams do not trade valuable parts away, they add to them. Sure sometimes they have to give up something of value to obtain the player they want, but they all make sure they get the BEST player in the deal at the time. I can tell you that in the Richardson deal, the best player was Jason Richardson. Please quit trying to say that the team would not be able to have Ellis, Biedrins, and Azubuike on the team with Richardson still around. The one thing the CBA does well is it allows for teams to re-sign their own players. If the team wanted to keep it&amp;#039;s core together, it could easily do so. The team even could have signed Turiaf or someone of his ilk by using their mid-level exception.     Question: assuming we&amp;#039;d retained Baron, and not acquired Maggette, Turiaf, or Williams, what players would you have tried to trade for to get this team to a championship level?  As for your point about the JRich trade and CBA, as long as your a warrior fan you should probably get used to an ownership group that doesn&amp;#039;t break the luxury tax. If were-signed all the players you mentioned, the &amp;#039;suits&amp;#039; running this franchise would have payed about $90 million this year. Instead of $70 mil. If you want a team that does the former, see: mavs, lakers, knicks.  And lastly, if we kept jrich, we not only wouldn&amp;#039;t have brandan wright on the roster but likely anthony randolph as well.   If Baron had been retained, there wouldn&amp;#039;t have been any money to make a major signing. However, they still could have obtained Turiaf with the same contract. They wouldn&amp;#039;t have rushed and made a panic move to obtain Williams though. 
