      from:  http://www.invest18.com/idea.php?id=150     &amp;amp;quot;The former AIG chief executive, Mr. Greenberg sold 40 million shares for about $125.9 million.  I would follow Greenberg and sell AIG now even the potential still exists.  Greenberg sold 5 million shares for about $3.77 per share, and his company Starr International also sold 35 million shares for an average of $3.06 per share.  Greenberg still owns more than 10% of the company. Although the SEC filing indicates the selling is for &amp;amp;#8220;liquidity&amp;amp;#8221; purposes, I am not totally convinced this is the case.  Given Greenberg is the only person really familiar with AIG situations, I will just follow Greenberg and sell all my AIG holdings.       Of course, if you are a risk-taker, you can hold some for long-term investment &amp;amp;#8211; about 3-5 years time horizon.     In my last article, I recommend to buy AIG stocks partly based on the possibility of Greenberg&amp;amp;#8217;s buyout.  Greenberg realizes that AIG is a solvent going concern and its insurance business is profitable.  There are even some speculations that Greenberg may just form a venture capital to bid for the entire company, if not the profitable insurance businesses. Now, with the stock selling, it appears Greenberg has given up on AIG.    Of course, investment decisions should not be made solely by following one person&amp;amp;#8217;s action.  But in this case, Greenberg is the former CEO of AIG, and he actually expressed interest in AIG before.  Nobody in this world understands AIG more than Greenberg. If he is selling, I will follow him because the risk in AIG just goes up significantly without Greenberg&amp;amp;#8217;s participation.     I have no doubt that the current CEO, Edward Liddy will come up with a strategic sales plan that will repay the US government as soon as possible.  The earlier the AIG fully repays the loan; the US government may not be able to get the 80% stake. Given the business potential, AIG is still a good long-term investment if you have 3-5 years time frame. But the investment risk has just been raised significantly. Based on the potential risk-and-reward, I will not invest and will sell your existing holdings until the AIG situation is clearer.     Message18: AIG potential still exists but the risk just goes up significantly without Greenberg involvement.  You should follow the company closely if you own or plan to own the stock. I will sell the stock now. If the stock is clear for its future, then I would rather buy the stock on its way up.&amp;amp;quot;    again, what this has to do with gaming,  i have no idea         
