Nice little piece today in the Financial Times Clash Looms Over US Mortgage Aid.What's frightening is this is hardly new news. However, I am going to take a guess that 95% of the people in government who are working onthe various goodies to make the world safe for housing financing again are hearing about thisfor the firsttime.   Essentially, the battle that is ready to be joined is the battle of investors who own bonds securitized by first liens, many of them the same bonds that are deemed "legacy assets" by Treasury, and banks who are servicing the loans AND own second lien positions. The normal order of things would call for the second lien to take all the first credit hits, until exhausted, before the first liens are hit. That is why one lien is called "first" and the other is called "second". However, not so fast.In the rush to save the American homeowner through legislation, this little distinction may very well get trammeled. From the FT;  Investors owning securities backed by people's main mortgages say that banks owning riskier mortgages - so-called second lien - could use the legislation to avoid billions of dollars of losses.  These second lien loans are mostly owned by banks, which also own the mortgage servicers. A "servicer safe harbour" in the legislation would shield servicers from legal action if they change the terms on people's mortgages, many of which back securities.  Investors say this would allow servicers to prioritise the banks that own them, and whose risky mortgages are supposed to take losses first. This could help banks avoid billions of dollars of losses that would instead be taken by investors. "The largest servicers are also the largest holders of second mortgages and home equity lines of credit," said Laurie Goodman, analyst at Amherst Securities. "We do not want to suggest that abuses will occur; it's just that the stage appears to have been perfectly set up for such."  Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Citibank own more than $400bn of second lien mortgages. The banks also own securities backed by mortgages, but they stand to lose more on those holdings than on the second lien debts. JPMorgan and Citi declined to comment and the others were unavailable.  Hmm, you want to step up to the plate and buy "legacy securities" with little issues like these looming?Not I said the blindman to the deaf mute!  Have a nice weekend everybody. Richie and I are gonna learn the radio businessthis afternoon!   
