Cloudiness is rarely a good thing in the financial markets, but we seem to be getting more than our fair share of it these days. The latest blast of opacity comes from The Wall Street Journals report that Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis testified to the New York Attorney Generals office that he was told by Fed and Treasury officials to keep mum about the problems at Merrill Lynch as Bank of America made plans to acquire the troubled firm last fall.  The testimony doesnt indicate Mr. Lewis received explicit instructions, but that he believed that officials wanted quietness. The Journal also reports that representatives of then Treasury Secretary Paulson say they had the markets interests chief in mind and people close to Fed Chief Ben Bernanke say he didnt offer the Bank of America CEO any advice on the issue of disclosure. It turns out, of course, that Merrills problems were massive and have since saddled Bank of America with a very challenging situation. The banks shares have plunged and the government has had to inject oodles of capital into the bank in order to keep it alive. Bank of America shareholders are understandably disgruntled and the latest disclosures wont provide much in the way of gruntlement. Whats especially troubling is that policy makers have often reached for muddiness when clarity would serve investors better. The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently loosened accounting rules to help banks appear healthier. That move, in all likelihood, contributed to questions in the past week about the quality of reported bank results.  More troubling, huge swathes of the market are still shrouded in more mystery than they should be. Take the securitization market. Investors want better information about the performance of underlying assets that feed into securitized products, such as mortgage-backed securities and pools of credit-card debt. But the sellers of securitized loans are resisting providing more clarity, creating an unnecessary and economically harmful stand-off in that important marketplace. Sunlight, rather than secrecy, is elemental to a well functioning marketplace. But it seems that regulators and policymakers are tied up in knots trying to keep things hazy. Given the problems facing the market, this approach seems curious. Until it changes, investors will remain leery, financial institutions will remain zombie-like and recovery will remain more elusive than it should. Perhaps the reported testimony from Mr. Lewis will prompt some rethinking.        
