AUBURN HILLS, MI, Feb 17 (MARKET WIRE) -- Faced with unpredictable sales and fluctuating consumer confidence, customer-centric companies continue to look for ways to be more efficient with their market research budgets. To help clients address these challenges, Gongos Research is offering access to Consumer Village -- a growing online community of consumers that provides companies with an effective way to conduct both qualitative and quantitative research. Distinguishing it from consumer panels, Gongos Research established Consumer Village as a socially interactive research network to create an enduring, two-way relationship with consumers. By designing an environment that fosters ongoing discussions among members, Consumer Village generates comprehensive insights that go well beyond traditional online survey methods. When used for custom online quantitative research, Consumer Village provides significant advantages compared to consumer panels. Ongoing responses from community members allow efficient targeting of consumer segments, as well as the ability to mine insights over time. Consumer Village also exceeds industry standards for data quality: -- Average response rates exceed 30% -- Average survey completion rates at 92% -- Annual retention rate of 88% For exploratory research, flash polls generate quick reads on consumer attitudes or behavior, with responses emerging within 24 hours. Customized dialogues complete the picture, yielding in-depth qualitative feedback with responses that average 70 words. 'Consumer Village has been carefully cultivated to create a deep and enduring relationship with consumers who are eager to share their ideas and opinions,' states Mitch Sanders, Ph.D., Research Director, Analytics for Gongos Research. 'We leverage this unique relationship with consumers to provide business insights not possible with traditional qualitative or quantitative methods.' He adds, 'We are especially pleased to give our clients an economical and effective way to understand their customers in today's economic climate.' To learn more about conducting research in Consumer Village, email iCommunities@gongos.com. For information on becoming a member of Consumer Village please visit Join Consumer Village. Since 1991, Gongos Research has worked with leading companies including Best Buy, Hallmark Cards, Mars Inc., Domino's Pizza, U.S. Bank, GM and Polaris. In 2007, the company was first named to the Inc. 5000 list of 'The Fastest Growing Companies in America,' and in 2008 was among the Honomichl Top 50. Gongos Research is a custom marketing research company that forms trusted research partnerships with companies around the world. Blending strategic thinking, top talent, breakthrough technologies and proprietary software, Gongos' offerings help refine, enhance and advance products and services across many industries. For further insight into the Gongos culture, visit gongos.com. Image Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=923785 Contact: Susan Scarlet Marketing &amp; PR Director Gongos Research 248.239.2381 Email Contact Copyright 2009, Market Wire, All rights reserved. -0-  
