Wilmington Trust announced that it has reached a definitive agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (Bank of America) through which Bank of America has transferred the interests and responsibilities associated with its corporate debt trustee line of business to Wilmington Trusts Corporate Client Services (CCS) business. This does not impact Bank of Americas larger securitization trustee business, LaSalle Global Trust Services.   The agreement is the result of Bank of Americas selection of Wilmington Trusts CCS business to assume corporate trustee assignments of LaSalle Bank N.A. (LaSalle), which merged with Bank of America in 2007. CCS will perform corporate trust services, including indenture trustee and registrar paying agent services, for LaSalles former clients, effective immediately. Wilmington Trust will not take on any additional staff in the transfer of business from Bank of America.   Our ability to finalize this agreement with Bank of America reflects our status as a premier global provider of corporate trust services, said Ted T. Cecala, chairman and CEO of Wilmington Trust. Our CCS business continues to grow despite significant challenges in the capital markets and is an important contributor to the diverse sources of revenue our company enjoys.   Terms of the agreement, which does not require regulatory approval, were not disclosed. It is expected that the transaction will be immaterial to Wilmington Trusts earnings for 2009.   Corporate trust is a core business for us, and we appreciate Bank of Americas confidence in us to perform these services for clients, said Jack Beeson, senior vice president of Wilmington Trust and head of CCS Corporate Capital Markets business, in commenting on Bank of Americas selection of CCS to be its corporate trust successor.   This transaction represents the fourth expansion initiative in Wilmington Trusts CCS business during the past 13 months. Since early 2008, CCS acquired AST Capital Trust Company and UBS Fiduciary Trust Company to augment its corporate retirement services business and added 14 capital markets experts who specialize in working with distressed debt, corporate restructurings and bankruptcies, loan administration, high-yield debt issuance, and other capital markets transactions.   CCS is a leading provider of institutional trustee, agency, asset management, retirement plan services, and administrative services for clients worldwide who use capital market financing structures, as well as those who seek to establish and maintain nexus, or legal residency, for special purpose entities.   Wilmington Trust Corporation WL is a financial services holding company that provides Regional Banking services throughout the mid-Atlantic region, Wealth Advisory Services for high-net-worth clients in 36 countries, and Corporate Client Services for institutional clients in 86 countries. Its wholly owned bank subsidiary, Wilmington Trust Company, which was founded in 1903, is one of the largest personal trust providers in the United States and the leading retail and commercial bank in Delaware. Wilmington Trust Corporation and its affiliates have offices in Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Vermont, the Cayman Islands, the Channel Islands, London, Dublin, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, and Amsterdam. Wilmington Trust CorporationNews Media 
