At Gippsland Group Training in Victoria, they have a very simple two-word policy: no lay-offs.  No matter how bad the economy gets, the 1200 apprentices who sign on with the organisation will always have work. They guarantee all successful applicants that they will keep them 'employed for the full four years of your apprenticeship'. The organisation was born out of the recession that gripped Australia in the early 1980s; during the downturn of the early 1990s it grew. When the training group - which operates like a labour hire company, charging employers a commission on the hourly rate of its apprentices - cannot place the apprentices, they move into full-time training.  John Buchanan, the director of Sydney University's Workplace Research Centre, believes Gippsland Group Training, which has an annual turnover of $45 million, is a model for businesses to survive the recession with their workforces intact. 'They have managed to run a no-retrenchment policy for 20 years in one of the most economically fragile parts of the country,' Professor Buchanan told the Herald.  By contrast, corporate Australia is shedding jobs by the thousands. BHP Billiton will cut 6000 jobs, including 3400 in Australia, 1850 from Pacific Brands, 1047 from Macquarie Bank, 1000 to 2500 from Westpac, 1500 from Qantas, 1000 from the Commonwealth Bank, 800 from OneSteel, 685 from Starbucks, 676 from Rio Tinto, 640 from Don Smallgoods, 600 from Insurance Australia Group, CSR 539, Foster's 455, and so on. The outlook for the labour market appears bleak, with official unemployment tipped to rise to at least 7 per cent by next year.  Even worse were forecasts last month by a leading labour market economist, Professor Bill Mitchell of Newcastle University. He said within 18 months, official unemployment combined with underemployment and those people who drop out of the labour market altogether - discouraged by constant knock-backs from potential employers - could reach 20 per cent. Continued...  SYDNEY carpenter and construction rigger Mick Simpson spent ...  If I lose my job, am I entitled to unemployment benefits?  THE Government has warned the nation to steel itself for ...  SYDNEY carpenter and construction rigger Mick Simpson spent the latter half of this decade criss-crossing Australia in search of work.  If I lose my job, am I entitled to unemployment benefits?  THE Government has warned the nation to steel itself for more large-scale job losses as it cited yesterday's lay-offs of almost 2000 people as sobering evidence the global financial crisis had hit home.
