Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens has said there is no strong case for banks to impose fees on people who use Automatic Teller Machines of a bank other than their own.  Historically, banks have charged people a 'foreign' fee for customers using an out-of-network ATM. Starting on March 3, the RBA will ban 'interchange' fees paid between banks when customers from one network use another bank's fees, forcing the ATM-owner to charge the customer directly.  The reform is aimed at eliminating the 'foreign fees banks add to cover the cost of electronic processing, which RBA governor Glenn Stevens said today in parliamentary testimony should cost ''no more than 10 cents.''  ''We cannot see any strong case for a foreign fee,'' said Mr Stevens. ''Now people will know exactly what the price of an ATM transaction is, and they will know it before completing the transaction.''  ''There should be no foreign fees of any significance. And competition will be maintained.''  'If the Australian Bankers' Association is suggesting that increasing ATM fees ensures protection of Australian finance jobs, then let's have a commitment from the banks on ending off-shoring, and maintaining employment levels,'' FSU national secretary Leon Carter said in a statement.  The union's challenge is just the latest salvo in a dispute between the banking industry, consumer groups and the Finance Sector Union ahead of the change to ATM fees disclosure.  Consumer group Choice estimates that if the major banks continue to charge a 50 cent foreign fee as National Australia Bank says it will do, ATM fees could burden consumers with a total of $200 million more per year.  Since Choice released the estimate this week, calling on banks to scrap foreign fees altogether, the union and industry have been engaged in war of words about whether the $200 million is profiteering or needed revenue for the industry in a time of increased uncertainty.  'Sound performance' counts  The ABA said Wednesday the union's finance sector members should, 'know more than anyone, it is the sound performance of banks, like any other business, that is the best safeguard of long-term employment.''  Australia's banks have largely escaped the enormous write-downs and need for state funding financial institutions in the US and Europe have accepted since the global financial crisis accelerated in the second half of last year.  Banking executives routinely make the link between the relatively high profits of Australian banks and the stability they have so far enjoyed during the crisis.  'Since the global financial crisis, funding costs have increased and revenue is under pressure,'' the ABA said. 'ATM reform will potentially reduce bank revenue in this business category.''  The union claims the ABA and member banks are resisting the regulatory reforms sweeping the world of finance.  'The FSU gives support for a public debate with the ABA,'' the union said, wanting to discuss not only ATM fees but job security and low staffing levels in bank branches which it calls 'deliberate''.  In addition, the union said it's seeking a public dialogue about executive pay, which has come under attack in recent months by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.  
