ANZ Bank is facing another embarrassing legacy from the boom years, involving an imminent payment of $30million to an executive who is also a joint-venture partner of the bank in an infrastructure business.  ANZ Infrastructure Services managing director John Clarke has a put option to the bank, exercisable from April 1, over his 20 per cent stake in ANZIS.   The exercise price is based on the financial performance of ANZIS, which is the investment manager of $1billion in assets held in two wholesale infrastructure trusts -- Energy Infrastructure Trust and Diversified Infrastructure Trust.   ANZIS lifted its net profit from $6.7million to $12.1million for the 12 months to September 2008. An ANZ spokesman yesterday confirmed the bank's arrangements with Mr Clarke. 'Any determination of final outcomes from these commercial arrangements for either ANZ or Mr Clarke is currently unknown, as these are based on future intentions and events,' the spokesman said. 'As a principle, ANZ is bound by commercial arrangements and acts in the interests of ANZ's shareholders by appropriately complying with these agreements.' While the bank refused to comment, ANZ insiders have told The Australian any exercise of the put, or a corresponding call option held by the bank, would crystallise a payment of about $30million to Mr Clarke.   It is understood the 2001 deal struck with Mr Clarke has caused dismay at senior levels of ANZ, as the bank grapples with rising bad debts and the fallout from other boomtime ventures such as securities lending and the Opes Prime debacle.   The scale of the payment is reminiscent of the controversial $32.75million severance cheque paid by Commonwealth Bank in 2003 to Colonial First State boss Chris Cuffe.   Any payment to Mr Clarke, however, would not form part of his remuneration, and would be based on an equity stake held for almost eight years. 'This type of commercial arrangement involving banks and equity partners that have specialist skills are common in the infrastructure funds sector,' the ANZ spokesman said.   ANZIS dates from 2000, when it was created as a 50:50 joint venture between ANZ and Morrison&amp;Co Australia, a specialist infrastructure business of which Mr Clarke was managing director and a part-owner.   The joint venture was governed by a shareholders' agreement.   In 2001, ANZ acquired another 30 per cent of ANZIS from Morrison&amp;Co, which made ANZIS 80 per cent-owned by ANZ and 20 per cent by Mr Clarke.   The spokesman said ANZIS had built a strong position in a niche market over the past eight years. 
