BANKING: Bank to sell half of fleet   Bank of America Corp. said Wednesday it is selling nearly half of its corporate aircraft as the bank looks to scale back costs.  The Charlotte, N.C.-based bank joins Citigroup Inc. and other companies in cutting back private jet travel.  Many financial firms are giving up the perk as scrutiny mounts over lavish spending after the companies received billions of dollars in rescue funds.  Since October, Bank of America has received $45 billion in government assistance, including a $20-billion injection last month to help with its troubled Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. acquisition.  CREDIT: Online payments aid Visa   Visa Inc. said Wednesday its fiscal first-quarter profit rose by 35% as the shift from cash toward electronic payments maintained its staying power, even while consumers tightened spending amid the recession.  The results beat Wall Street expectations.  The world's largest electronic payment network reported net income of $574 million, or 74 cents per share, for the three months ended Dec. 31.  That's up from $424 million, or 55 cents per share, in the same quarter a year earlier, when Visa was privately held before its initial public offering last March.  INTERNET: $1-billion refund sought   Google Inc. is pressing Time Warner Inc. to either refund its $1-billion investment in the media giant's AOL Internet unit or spin it off as a public company, Time Warner disclosed Wednesday.  John Martin, Time Warner's chief financial officer, said during a conference call with analysts that Google has asked to exercise its 'demand registration rights,' which would require Time Warner to either refund its AOL investment or offer shares of AOL on a public market.'We're evaluating our options and those options include proceeding with the request, delaying the decision for some time or we can move ahead to potentially buy back Google's stake at an appraised value, which would obviously be well below the value that was placed on it at the time of the original investment,' Martin said.His remarks came as Time Warner posted a $16-billion loss for the fourth quarter.  MAIL: Postal Service posts loss   The Postal Service had a $384-million loss in the October-December period, usually a profitable time for the agency because of holiday cards, gifts and catalogs.  But the worsening recession pushed mail volume down by 5.2 billion pieces compared with the same period a year earlier.  It was the eighth-consecutive quarter that mail volume fell by increasing amounts.  Without an economic recovery, mail volume for the year could be down 12 million to 15 million items, the post office said. 
