SUNCORP shares have collapsed to their lowest point in more than a decade as the market speculates that a fresh bid from a rival bank is imminent.  The stock dropped by 25.5 per cent yesterday -- one of the largest one-day falls for a retail bank in recent times -- after Suncorp was forced to raise fresh capital at a record discount rate to shore up its balance sheet and cover a big rise in bad debts.   The pain is expected to worsen in trading today as margin calls triggered by yesterday's falls hit retail investors.   The stock has a substantial retail client base, particularly in Queensland, and several brokers were forced to make margin calls yesterday.   Shares in the diversified Queensland bank and insurance group plunged to just $5.31, a stark contrast to its peak of $23.29 during the reign of recently ousted chief executive John Mulcahy.   The collapse has taken Suncorp shares to their lowest point since June 1997, abolishing more than a decade worth of value.   The equity issue was carried out at $4.50, a 30 per cent discount, and was over-subscribed by institutional investors because of the price.   There are fears of an overhang of the stock because a retail offer could drive down value.   Suncorp's share price woes were exacerbated by the Victorian bushfires and floods in North Queensland, which will hammer the insurance division.   Suncorp said it was too early to say how much the disasters would cost, but it held reinsurance cover for events over $150 million or $250 million for multiple incidents. The Suncorp stock was also downgraded by Fitch, the ratings agency, which now has a negative outlook on the company after its 25-fold increase in bad-debt provisions.   Ascot Securities managing director Myles Smith said the shares could have fallen further, closer to the issue price, if takeover speculation was not evident. The ANZ lobbed a low-ball bid for the banking assets last year, and there are now questions as to whether CBA could be interested in a deal.   Mr Mulcahy, who will leave Suncorp when a successor is found, has ruled out selling the banking component of the business, but the board's opinion could differ. 'There could be a small premium now in the stock for the potential of the bank's sale if there is an interested buyer,' Mr Smith said. 'A lot of people are disappointed with Suncorp, disappointed with the way it's been run. Most people have held the stock for a long time and they are trying to hold on.' 
