CANBERRA: Australias Senate may hold an inquiry as early as next week to scrutinise investments by Chinese state-owned companies after Aluminum Corp of Chinas bid for a stake in Rio Tinto Group.  This is an economic question about giving another government a stake in Australian resources, our biggest wealth generator, Opposition Nationals Senator Barnaby Joyce said in a phone interview from St George in Queensland state.  This is not being parochial about foreign investment, it is about the ownership of Australian resources being handed to another government.  Joyce called for an inquiry to consider tightening Foreign Investment Review Board rules and Chinese sovereign investment in Australian resources. The committee has the power to summon executives from companies and to block investments.  Chinalco, as the state-owned company is known, last week agreed to buy US$7.2bil of convertible bonds and acquire stakes in Rio projects for US$12.3bil. China Minmetals Corp has made a takeover bid for Oz Minerals Ltd.  The proposals have to be lodged with the review board, which will make a recommendation to Treasurer Wayne Swan, who has the power to reject both deals. Swan last week moved to change the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act to allow for greater government oversight of such investments. Former Austrian treasurer Peter Costello blocked Royal Dutch Shell Plcs bid for Woodside Petroleum Ltd in 2001. Joyce needs support from his Liberal-National coalitions other 35 senators and from five Greens to begin the inquiry.  Coalition treasury spokesman Joe Hockey and the Greens support the inquiry, the Australian Financial Review cited them as saying yesterday.  Minerals demand has helped extend 17 years of economic growth in Australia, the largest shipper of coal, iron ore and alumina. Waning demand from its biggest trading partners of China, Japan and the US may cut income from exports by 20% this year, the Reserve Bank of Australia said on Feb 6.  China was the biggest buyer of Australian minerals in 2007, purchasing one-fifth of the A$68.5bil worth of exports.  China said on Feb 11 exports fell last month by the most in 13 years as demand dried up in the US and Europe.  Meanwhile, Chinalco said Xiao Yaqing had stepped down as company president less than a week after signing the US$19.5bil deal.  Chinalco said Xiong Weiping, a former vice-president, would replace Xiao. Local media had reported Xiao would be working as a deputy secretary general of Chinas cabinet, the State Council, and coordinating departments on industry policies.  Agencies  
