RBS is likely to canvass offers for RBS Aviation Capital, which analysts estimate is worth several billion dollars, following its annual results on February 26.   The aircraft leasing arm, one of the world's largest, has offices in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Dubai. It is not clear whether RBS could expect to attract serious offers for the unit in the current industry climate. AIG, the US insurance group, is also looking at the sale of its business in the sector.   Stephen Hester, RBS chief executive, has brought forward a sweeping review of the bank, which is being conducted with the help of McKinsey &amp; Co, from March to the annual results, when RBS will unveil a massive loss for the last financial year. He is expected to disclose plans to dramatically shrink RBS, which will involve exiting various markets around the world many of which were entered as part of the ill-fated takeover of ABN Amro.   The deal was the biggest ever cross-boarder banking deal on record, but has saddled the bank with huge problems, resulting in last year's 12bn rights issue and subsequent 20bn rescue by the taxpayer. RBS is now almost 70pc owned by the taxpayer.   Mr Hester will try to retain some of RBS's international businesses, in line with his repeated assertions that the bank would continue to have significant operations around the world.   It is unlikely that Citizens, RBS's US bank, will be put up for sale, because there would be few buyers and because it is not a major drag on RBS's capital.   The priority will be to close down large swathes of the global markets business, which was run by Johnny Cameron, RBS's director. Mr Cameron has now left the bank and is poised to take on a role with Greenhill.   RBS is understood to be unclear about what to do with areas such as foreign exchange trading, which has been profitable in the past but may be regarded as one of the problem areas in which the bank will no longer do business.   Some believe Mr Hester will have no choice but to cut RBS back so dramatically that it will be little more than the core UK business of National Westminster, the bank RBS bought in 2000.   Last week, RBS announced a cull of seven non-executives, including Peter Sutherland, the outgoing chairman of BP, and Sir Steve Robson, the ex-Treasury mandarin. 
