A possible merger between Russia's largest metals and mining firms looks far from realistic after both Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service criticised such deals as a back-door way of debt restructuring.  'There is no prospect in such a merger other than unloading debts to the state,' said Alexei Ulyanov, head of the service's industry department, RIA Novosti reported.  Norilsk Nickel is partly state-owned and a unified company is seen as a safe bet for commodities companies with large debts but it is unlikely to improve performance in the industry.  'Trying to combine metals and mining businesses with Norilsk would not bring any synergies that would cover the cost of that merger,' said Daniel Yakub, a metals and mining analyst at Citibank. 'The only reason could be potential debt restructuring.'  Creating a metals giant could benefit some of the metals magnates, who might use the merger to increase their stake in publicly-listed Norilsk Nickel, Russia's biggest mining company.  'The major benefit is diversification but on the other hand I think for minority shareholders it carries a risk of being diluted,' said Olga Okuneva, a metals analyst at Deutsche Bank. 'I don't know which one will prevail but from the stock market perspective it may be treated as negative news.'  Therefore, while the merger might benefit the majority shareholders who are negotiating it, others are likely to lose out.  'Major shareholders can always reach an agreement which will be mutually beneficial but minorities will not have the ability to defend their rights effectively,' Okuneva said.  However, other analysts have pointed to positive reasons for forming one metals and mining giant, particularly diversification.  'In the long run, creating this national mining champion is a good thing because it would have advantages over non-diversified companies,' said Nikolai Sosnovsky, a metals analyst at UralSib. 'If you have a company that operates in nickel, oil and potash, they can switch between investments.'  The situation is different now, compared to when the merger talks started several months ago, said Okuneva.  'The idea behind the merger between Norilsk Nickel and Metalloinvest was not relieving the debt situation last year,' she said. 'It was a discussion about diversification.'  While the government has not decided whether to support the plan, Putin has stated that companies should only merge to improve competitiveness, rather than to consolidate debts.  'It doesn't take a lot of brains simply to unify debts with debts,' he told Bloomberg television. 'If we combine two poor people, the family will not become richer.'  Consequently, RusAl is one company that seems unlikely to be involved due to its debt of almost $17 billion after receiving an emergency government loan of $4.5 billion.  'This united company shouldn't be bothered by such big debts and now RusAl and the state are trying to restructure this debt to long maturity,' said Sosnovsky. 'Only when the debt burden has been decreased will RusAl be available for mergers.'  Oleg Deripaska, RusAl's majority owner, confirmed that steps had been made to restructure the debt.  'We have cut costs by 30 percent,' he said at a roundtable in Moscow on Wednesday.  He also emphasized that a change in strategy was needed with new products and new prices to reflect lower demand.  There should be 'a proper restructuring of our capacity,' Deripaska said. 'We need to be ready for tough times.'  The commodities market has been one of the most heavily affected by the financial crisis, with very little investment going into new infrastructure projects.  'It is quite negative on the metals market for 2009 because the global decrease in demand has already affected prices and we don't expect them to recover this year,' said Alexei Morozov, a metals analyst at UBS.  Most metals companies have not made any large-scale moves to restructure and proposed lay-offs are likely to be opposed by local authorities wary of creating social unrest through unemployment.  'The government, especially local government, is trying to prevent people from firing people and companies are reluctant to reduce head count,' said Yakub. 'Large industrial companies are suffering as a result of that.'  The metals market has shown signs of recovering with an 11.6 percent rise on the RTS Metals Index last week, but medium term prospects remain negative.  'The fact that there is a pick up in the industry at the moment doesn't necessarily mean heavily indebted companies will be able to service all their debt obligations without government help,' said Yakub.  Even without opposition from the government and anti-monopoly service, any deal appears a long way off as discussions were anyway at a very early stage, experts said.  'It is the first trial in getting reaction from companies that could potentially be interested so I don't think we are going to see anything before 2010,' Okuneva said  The sticking point appears to be how much each company contributes and receives in terms of equity. Norilsk Nickel is a public company so it is easier to find a market valuation but other, privately held companies also have heavy debts, making them harder to value.  The proposal was made by Alisher Usmanov, the 50 percent-owner of Metalloinvest, but it looks unlikely that it will be accepted.  'Usmanov's proposal was quite one-sided in favour of Metalloinvest,' said Sosnovsky. 'He suggested RusAl and Interros would have stakes of 12.5 per cent to 13 per cent and Interros is quite opposed to this proposal.'  However, the process could be sped up if a metals company appears unable to service its debt.  'Companies are trying to solve their current debt and operational problems.' Sosnovsky said. 'There will be no decision unless one of the companies has very serious problems financing its working capital.'  
