The global financial crisis has finally broken the back of the struggling manufacturer Nylex, maker of the Esky brand, which has been placed in receivership and its shares suspended from trading on the ASX.  Control of the business and assets now rests with the receiver, McGrathNicol, appointed yesterday by a syndicate of secured lenders. Nylex, which employs about 700 people in Australia, owes $60 million to Westpac and ANZ Bank, and has debts of $100 million.  A diversified company more than 60 years old, Nylex makes some of Australia's best-known products. Besides Esky coolers, it makes Ajax fasteners, rubbish bins and water tanks. The group will continue trading while in administration.  Nylex, based in Melbourne, has struggled for a decade after being a major company under Alan Jackson in the late 1990s. It has faced extensive restructuring in the past three years.  When trading halted, its shares were worth 6.4c, giving the company a market capitalisation of $3.5 million. The stock was trading as high as 65c in August, and the group was worth $35 million.  The financial crisis forced the banks to reassess their credit terms, and the slump in car sales has hit Nylex's automotive production. It makes plastic fuel tanks, carpet moulding and plastic components for cars.  Nylex said this week that a default had arisen under its borrowing arrangements with the banks. The group has also been negotiating for a cash injection.  Nylex recorded a loss of $21.3 million last year after a profit of $10.9 million the year before. The company, a leading producer of water tanks, was badly hit by events in the water tanks market.  The drought and a government rebate had stimulated demand for tanks, but there was a sudden flood of entrants to the market by local manufacturers as barriers were not high due to easily available technology.  The oversupply pushed down prices and, when heavy rains fell in Queensland and NSW, demand for water tanks collapsed. Nylex had built its 2008 budget on expanding tank operations.  Johan Vorster, of McGrathNicol, said Nylex had faced a number of challenges over the years. 'They have fought bravely, but the impact of the financial crisis has become too much. I still believe there is great value in the group. It has a loyal and skilled workforce that produces good-quality products. There is great value to be salvaged.'  Mr Vorster said Nylex had reduced much of its debt over the years, 'but they could not stop the decline in trading'.  'They have been making losses, so could not support that debt. We are looking to restructure the business. We have already had expressions of interest. Other people see the value in the group.'  
