: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  A SHARPLY lower tax bill, higher lending fees and a positive revaluation of the Bankwest business shielded Commonwealth Bank against a $1.3 billion bad debt blowout in the December half.  The country's second largest bank posted a 9 per cent fall in interim net profit to $2.14 billion after absorbing the big provisioning hit and lower returns from its wealth management arms.  Investors responded positively to the result with CBA stock (cba.ASX:Quote,News) closing up 32 to $29.92.  Despite the earnings fall the fully franked interim dividend was maintained at $1.13, but chairman John Schubert warned that future dividends may be cut.  'In the current uncertain economic environment we cannot guarantee to maintain future dividends at past levels,' he said.  Managing director Ralph Norris described the bottom line as 'solid' even though earnings fell.  'It was particularly pleasing to see our banking businesses delivering good growth,' he said.  Although many financial institutions' business models are under pressure, we have remained open for business at a time when our customers clearly need our support.'  One of the curious features of the result was a $617 million windfall from fees levied on consumer and business borrowers.  That was $148 million up on the previous corresponding period which equates to a 31 per cent rise in lending fees.  The big fee grab helped to shield the group against the $136 million slide in funds management revenue.  When asked whether the growth rate on lending fees would be maintained in future periods, Mr Norris said: 'I would suspect that's not likely.'  Mr Norris was guarded about the group's earnings outlook, saying the Australian economic environment would remain 'uncertain and volatile' for at least another year.  CBA was badly burnt on loans to troubled corporates such as failed childcare operator, ABC Learning. But Mr Norris played down suggestions that Australian banks were experiencing a dramatic slide in credit quality among business borrowers.  'Our major exposure to bad debts revolved around four or five companies that had bad business models,' he said.  'In our SME book there's nothing there which indicates a systemic deterioration.'  Mr Norris also shrugged off claims the bank had been exploiting margin loan customers caught out by big falls on equity markets.  The introduction of the government guarantee on bank funding and deposits has increased pressure on major banks to improve corporate governance and eliminate unsavory lending practices.  'We have acted responsibly,' Mr Norris said.  'As a bank it is not in our interest to see someone get into trouble and sell-up - it usually costs us money.'  
