 - Ventraq (recently formed from the merger of industry leaders ACE*COMM, TeleSciences and 10e Solutions) today announced the availability of Customer Behavior Analytics, the latest solution in its Business Analytics suite.   The new solution offers a competitive advantage to service providers seeking to measure, improve and influence the customer experience, an essential tool in the fierce competition for subscribers. Customer Behavior Analytics (CBA) achieves this by: keeping track of customer transactions and interactions with the service provider; noting their choices and actions; cross-referencing demographic, psychographic and other profile data; and applying advanced techniques to understand their preferences and anticipate their needs. The resulting analytical data is then used to provide timely and relevant targeting recommendations to operational systems and staff -- and even directly to subscribers -- in order to optimize the user experience.   Understanding and Smoothing Out the Data Deluge   While the retail world has long considered behavior to improve customer loyalty, communication service providers (CSPs) must deal with an exponentially more complex environment. Consequently, CSPs are fortunate to have among the most granular information -- generated by customers' communication and online behavior.   With this advantage, however, is the challenge of analyzing billions of daily interactions, a disparate and rapidly evolving network environment, content of evanescent popularity, and fickle customers whose departure has immediate negative impact to the bottom line. The Ventraq CBA solution is designed to thrive within this demanding environment since it is, in essence, fueled by vast, complex data and quickly leverages it to provide new and actionable insight. 'CBA extends our strategy to provide actionable insight to the many departments within a CSP,' said Rick Mahuson, EVP and General Manager, Business Analytics for Ventraq. 'Our heritage of managing vast, detailed volumes of event data places us at the very heart of the customer experience. By leveraging this information -- at the individual record level and in combination with other event-related data -- service providers can offer targeted content for subscribers using any device running on an optimized network.' In fact, CSPs currently using Ventraq Customer Behavior Analytics have leveraged integrated network and marketing data -- readily accessible in scheduled and ad hoc reporting timeframes -- for more effective service launches and product tuning.   For a Tier 1 North American mobile service provider, Ventraq's Customer Behavior Analytics is enabling the delivery of relevant mobile web content to subscribers within an identified 'clustomer' grouping, measuring QoS across the variety of handsets, and alerting customer service of key initial access by new subscribers. 'Behavioral findings have been significantly different than many of our customers' assumptions,' added Mr. Mahuson. 'We look forward to finding new ways to help leading service providers uncover the performance and profit potential within their data.' Ventraq will be featuring Customer Behavior Analytics at the Mobile World Conference in Barcelona (Hall 1, Stand 1A70).   About Ventraq, Inc.   Formed by the merger of industry veterans ACE*COMM, TeleSciences and innovative start-up 10e Solutions -- and with a heritage of 40 years in providing telecommunications solutions -- Ventraq has performance enhancing deployments throughout the world, processing billions of events per day. Its extensive client base of operators and equipment vendor partners includes Alcatel-Lucent, AT&amp;T, mBlox, Nortel, O2, T-Mobile, Turk Telecom, TELUS, the U.S. Department of Defense, and Verizon.   Ventraq (www.ventraq.com) is a portfolio company within Ariston Global and is headquartered in Mount Laurel, New Jersey with other locations in the US, UK, and Australia and has been ISO 9001:2000 certified since 1996.   Ventraq T.M., TeleSciences, ACE*COMM, Reg. T.M., Ventraq, Inc.  Breakthrough Solution Improves Total Customer Experience by Leveraging User Interactions, Customer Profile/Preferences, and Network/Handset Performance
