SAS announced today that it was placed in the Visionaries quadrant of the Gartner Inc. Magic Quadrant for Marketing Resource Management(1) (MRM). 'Companies looking for strong analytical MRM capabilities for planning, measurement and optimization, particularly with integration to campaign planning and execution come to SAS,' said Jeff Levitan, General Manager, SAS Customer Intelligence. 'With so many vendors making far-reaching claims, there is some confusion in the market over what MRM really is and what it can achieve. In today's economic climate it is all about doing more with less and the analytics in SAS' solution help our customers decrease the costs of marketing processes while improving the effectiveness of marketing investments and resources. An MRM solution that offers anything less is a waste of those same precious marketing resources.' Marketing resource management capabilities typically include marketing planning and budgeting, marketing budget optimization, marketing performance management and campaign workflow and collaboration. SAS supports all of these marketing resource management categories with its marketing suite SAS(R) Customer Intelligence. SAS(R) Customer Intelligence solutions enable organizations to deepen customer insights, choreograph customer interactions and continuously improve marketing performance.   Customers worldwide using SAS to support customer initiatives include 1-800-FLOWERS.COM, DeutschlandCard, The Dow Chemical Co., First Citizens Bank, Grupo Santander, Hartford Life, Swisscom, US Bank, Vodafone Australia and Wolters Kluwer.   About the Magic Quadrant   The Gartner Magic Quadrant is copyrighted 2009 by Gartner, Inc., and is reused with permission.   The Magic Quadrant is a graphical representation of a marketplace at and for a specific time period. It depicts Gartner's analysis of how certain vendors measure against criteria for that marketplace, as defined by Gartner. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in the Magic Quadrant, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors placed in the 'Leaders' quadrant. The Magic Quadrant is intended solely as a research tool, and is not meant to be a specific guide to action. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and the largest independent vendor in the business intelligence market. Through innovative solutions delivered within an integrated framework, SAS helps customers at more than 45,000 sites improve performance and deliver value by making better decisions faster. Since 1976 SAS has been giving customers around the world THE POWER TO KNOW(R). SAS and all other SAS Institute Inc. product or service names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS Institute Inc. in the USA and other countries. (R) indicates USA registration. Other brand and product names are trademarks of their respective companies. Copyright (C) 2009 SAS Institute Inc. All rights reserved.   (1) Gartner Research. 'Magic Quadrant for Marketing Resource Management, 1Q09,' by Kimberly Collins, 9 February 2008. SAS Angela Lipscomb, 919- 531-2525 Angela.Lipscomb@sas.com Visit the SAS Press Center www.sas.com/presscenter 
