He takes the mission of each client, most of which are major financial services companies, and matches it with the abilities and potential of his candidates - chief executive officers or other upper-level managers.  The goal is to fill key leadership positions.  'They're critical to the success of the company,' the Millersville resident said. 'If I don't present the position right I make the risk that the person may take a position they're not fit for. I take duty as a major responsibility.'  Stoy is now in his 29th year of being in the executive search business. Business Week named him one of the world's most influential headhunters in November.  'I was very pleased that I would be placed in the same group as many of my peers,' he said.  The honor comes in the midst of an economic recession that started in the finance sector, with profits down at major U.S. banks and federal takeovers up.  Stoy said hiring for top positions is down 15 to 20 percent across the board. Financial services, in which Stoy mainly works, is down closer to 20 percent.  'Banks are merging and not hiring,' he said. 'Those purchasing banks have to assimilate them; they're not looking for new talent.'  There is still growth and opportunities in the market with private equity and investment firms, Stoy said.  'These are opportunities to purchase companies or attract new talent to their growing businesses,' he said.  As someone who knows the inner workings of being a CEO, Stoy said he is a bit concerned about the CEO salary caps proposed by President Barack Obama.  'Any company that is getting money from the government ... the senior executives of those companies should be limited as far as compensation is concerned,' he said. 'Individuals within those organizations that are running businesses are commission or incentive-driven, you have to be careful you don't cap those kinds of compensations because once you do you restrict how much the company can grow.'  Stoy has done searches for IBM, Apple Computers, T. Rowe Price, Legg Mason, McCormick and Co., Provident Bank and Bank of America. After speaking with executives at companies which exclusively hire him, he personally interviews about 20 to 30 people who are in his database or whose career he follows.  He does more work on about 10 to 15 of them, and then presents three to five of the candidates to his client, who makes the final hiring decision.  'To be successful in this business you have to be adaptable, flexible, reasonably informed, perceptive and you have to maintain a balance in your ego,' he said. 'You can't assume things.'  Dave Anderson, former president and chief operations officer of executive search firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles, where Stoy is currently a senior partner, said Stoy is an expert in the financial services industry and is great at working with his clients.  'He is someone who represents the pinnacle of client service,' he said.  Stoy was working as the finance executive of a bank holding corporation in Pittsburgh in 1979 when he was contacted by New York-based Warren Management Consultants, an executive-search firm. Company executives ended up recruiting him to work for them.  'I took a gamble that this might be a career I liked,' he said.  In 1980, Stoy opened the company's Annapolis office. After five years with Warren Management Consultants, he went to work for Korn/Ferry International, another executive search firm.  After another five years there, he was recruited by his current employer, Heidrick &amp; Struggles in 1990.  In 1991, he started the company's global diversified financial-services practice. He was a managing partner of the Washington, D.C., office until 1999. That office is now the largest executive search practice in the Washington, D.C., market.  Stoy represented Heidrick &amp; Struggles for six years on the board of the Association of Executive Search Consultants, whose members include major firms from all over the world. At the end of his six years, he was elected chairman of the board, a position he served in 2002 and 2003.  'We wouldn't put somebody in that role unless we thought he was the epitome of a top quality search consultant,' said Anderson.  In 2001, he was asked to move to Heidrick &amp; Struggles' Wall Street office in New York to build their global diversified financial-services practice, which he managed until 2006. Stoy is now a senior partner at that office, but works mainly out of his Millersville home.  Now 63, Stoy's career of almost 30 years still keeps him on his toes as he tries to pair up the goals of his clients with the potential of his candidates.  'It's an exciting job,' he said. 'It's never boring.'  
