NEW YORK - The acquisition of the Folgers brand helped boost J.M. Smucker Co.'s fiscal third quarter profit, the company said Wednesday, but a nationwide salmonella outbreak will likely eat into 2009 profits as shoppers remain wary of peanut butter products.  The nation's top maker of jams and jellies makes Jif peanut butter, which the company says has not been tainted by salmonella. But Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Richard Smucker said on a conference call with investors that consumers are still worried given the rash of product recalls since federal officials traced the source of the outbreak to a Georgia peanut processor owned by Peanut Corp. of America. 'We ran ads in USA Today and 100 major newspapers and aired national commercials reassuring consumers that Jif is the brand to trust,' he said. 'We believe these messages are starting to reach the consumers but it will take some time for the category to return to a more normal pattern.' Smucker said shoppers' fears could hurt 2009 profit by 5 cents to 7 cents per share.  He also said the company will record higher-than-expected expenses related to its Folgers deal for the year.  Earnings per share are now expected between $3.15 and $3.30, including the peanut butter and Folgers effects. The company previously expected earnings between $3.45 and $3.50 per share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expect earnings per share of $3.48 per share.  The company also cut its sales guidance for the full year to between $3.6 billion and $3.7 billion, down from prior expectations for sales between $3.8 billion and $4 billion. Analysts anticipate sales of $3.84 billion.  J.M. Smucker said it made the cut because of lower sales of peanut butter and it plans to cut prices of its oils, flour and coffee.  Standard &amp; Poor's analyst Tom Graves said he was 'disappointed' in the revised guidance and lowered his price target to $49 from $53, implying he now expects the shares to rise 19 percent from Tuesday's closing price. Graves has a 'Strong Buy' rating on the stock.  Deutsche Bank North America analyst Eric Katzman said in a note to investors that Smucker still remains one of his top picks, particularly as consumers buy more of the company's products to make food at home. 'We believe the consumer is moving towards products such as Folgers coffee, Smucker fruit spreads, Pillsbury baking mix and Hungry Jack mixes and syrups,' he said. Investors, though, sent Smucker shares down $2.23, or 5.4 percent, to $38.91.  The company's purchase of Folgers in June drastically boosted both sales and profit for the third quarter.  For the three months ended Jan. 31, profit rose 84 percent to $77.9 million from $42.4 million a year earlier. Earnings per share declined 9 percent to 68 cents from 75 cents because of 20 cents per share for integration and acquisition charges of its purchase of the Folgers coffee brand last November. The per share amount for the current quarter is based on 57.7 million more shares outstanding.  When adjusted, profit was 88 cents in the most recent quarter.  Sales jumped 78 percent to $1.18 billion from $665.4 million, mostly because of the addition of the Folgers brand. The company said higher prices also helped sales.  Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, who usually exclude one-time items from their estimates, expected 87 cents per share and sales of $1.22 billion.  AP Business Writer Betsy Vereckey contributed to this report.
