Welcome to the Group 1 Automotive, Incorporated fourth quarter 2008 earnings results call. Todays conference is being recorded. Now Id like to turn the conference over to Mr. Pete DeLongchamps, Vice President of Manufacture Relations. Please go ahead.  Pete DeLongchamps  Welcome to Group 1 Automotives 2008 fourth quarter conference call. Before we begin, Id like t make some brief remarks about forward-looking statements and the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Except for historical information mentioned during the conference call, statements made by the management of Group 1 Automotive are forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements involve both known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause the companys actual results in future periods to differ materially from forecasted results. Those risks include but are not limited to risks associated with pricing, volume and the conditions of the market. Those and other risks are described the companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission over the last 12 months. Copies of these filings are available from both the SEC and the company.  In addition, certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under the SEC rules may be discussed on this call. As required by applicable SEC rules, the company provides reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures on its website.  Id now like to turn the call over to our president and CEO, Mr. Earl Hesterberg.  Earl Hesterberg  After I cover what we observed during the fourth quarter, Ill turn the call over to our CFO, John Rickel who will provide details on Group 1s financial results, including the asset impairment charges reported for the quarter. Then I will address guidance and open up the call for questions.  First, let me begin by telling you what we observed during the last three months of 2008. As we reported on our third quarter earnings call, we were hesitant to predict where our sales were headed in the fourth quarter. We knew things had gotten significantly worse starting with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in mid-September, but had hoped that similar to earlier financial blowups this would be a somewhat temporary reaction.  By the end of October, we realized that the quarter was in a much steeper decline than we had anticipated. Seasonally adjusted selling rates for October, November and December were each down more than 35% for the industry on a whole. In looking back at history in prior recessions, we dont believe anyone could have realistically predicted the rapid decline to the levels we saw in the fourth quarter.  As the extent of the declines became clear, it led us to revisit the $35 million cost cutting measures we began implementing in October. In doing so we determined that we needed to cut costs more aggressively, and on January 14th we announced that we were putting additional measures in place. We will reduce our 2009 SG&amp;A expenses by a total of $100 million from 2008 levels.  These actions include pay reductions for everyone in our corporate office, as well as our regional vice presidents and our board of directors. We have defined plans in place to achieve these savings and are making good progress on implementing them.  Ill let John update you on the details of the additional cost cutting measures were taking. None of us are enjoying what we have to do, but all of us realize that these actions are necessary and will take the efforts of the entire organization to successfully manage through this challenging environment.  The biggest issue continuing to impact us is reduced traffic in our dealerships. As consumers are faced with uncertainty regarding the countrys financial situation, concerns about their own employment security and significant wealth reductions in the form of lower 401(k) balances and reductions in the value of their homes, its no surprise that consumer confidence has dropped at historical lows and that customers are staying away from auto dealer showrooms.  This sharp falloff in vehicle demand, coupled with a shift in customer preference [inaudible] from small cars and hybrids as gas prices rapidly fell left most dealers in the country with too much inventory in total, as well as an imbalance with too few trucks and too many cars. The result was margin pressure across the board as dealers everywhere scrambled to unload and rebalance both new and used inventory.  Although used vehicle inventories have adjusted, it is likely to take most of the first quarter for new vehicle inventories to adjust to current market conditions. Additionally, both used and new vehicle sales continue to be hampered by the restrictive practices of both captive and independent auto retail lenders. Forty-six percent of our new vehicle unit sales were trucks in the fourth quarter up from 44% in the third quarter, and down slightly from 47% in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Our parts and service business remains solid. Same store revenues fell 2.4% and gross margin contracted 100 basis points, but this business remains stable. The revenue decrease was a result of declines in our wholesale parts and domestic brand customer pay business. However, our warranty business was up for the quarter and our collision repair business grew significantly.  The profits earned from this segment cover approximately 75% to 85% of the companys total fixed costs and certainly support the business model during the present challenging new vehicle selling environment. Over half of our capital expenditures in 2008 were put toward either new or expanded service or collision centers. These facility actions include the new Beverly Hills Mercedes Benz and [inaudible] Toyota service centers and expanded collision centers in Houston and New Orleans.  The finance and insurance business continues to be a major profit contributor but its been impacted by sales volume declines in more restrictive lending practices. Due to vehicle sales decline, same store F&amp;I revenues were down 32%. Gross profit per unit decreased $96 to $1,014 per retail unit due to a reserve for potential charge backs from credit life insurance vendors, as well as lower finance penetration and reduced amounts financed per contract.  Now lets turn to inventories. Inventory management in this environment was very challenging. In the second quarter of 2008, we saw a shift in customer preference from trucks to fuel efficient cars. Then in the fourth quarter we saw a shift back to trucks. As a result, Group 1s truck inventory levels improved during that quarter. However, were now heavy in new car inventory.  The end of the fourth quarter we had approximately 23,000 new vehicles on our lots valued at $692.7 million. We have reduced our new vehicle orders in the first quarter of 2009 and anticipate reducing new vehicle inventory by $150 million by the end of the first quarter.  On the flip side, as lower gas prices per truck sales, our supply of used vehicles at quarter end stood at 25 day supply with trucks a bit lower than usual. We are sourcing used vehicles both internally and externally to bring the inventory closer to the targeted 37 day supply.  Turning to fourth quarter brand mix, Honda, BMW and Mercedes Benz all increased their share of our new vehicle unit sales from the prior year period. Toyota, Sun and Lexus accounted for 36% of our sales, followed by Honda Acura with 13% and Nissan with 11%. Ford came in fourth at 10% with BMW right behind it. Rounding out the mix was Mercedes Benz with 7%, Chrysler with 6% and GM accounting for 4% of our new vehicle unit sales.  Luxury brand sales grew 360 basis points from the prior year period to account for 27% of our unit sales, while import brands accounted for 53% of our unit sales. Domestic brands contributed 20% in total unit sales with 290 basis point decline from 2007.  Now let me give you a corporate development recap of our 2008 activities and outlook for 2009. During the first six months of 2008, we acquired a total of five franchises that are expected to generate $90.2 million in estimated annual revenues. We did not acquire any franchises in the second half of 2008 and do not anticipate completing any acquisitions in 2009.  As for dispositions, we disposed of 14 franchises with 12-month revenues of $146.4 million during the first nine months of 2008 and have not disposed of any franchises subsequently.  Before I turn the call over to John, I wanted to say a few words about the dividend suspension we announced in the press release. When we announced the reduced dividend in November, we were looking at a difficult economic environment with some economic analysts predicting that we would begin to see slight improvement around mid-2009.  Since that time there have been indicators that the challenging economic environment could last throughout 2009. Given the uncertainty of how long it may be before the economic environment begins to improve, our board of directors determined that it was prudent to suspend the dividend and reserve the cash in order to protect the balance sheet.  I will now ask John to go over our financial results in more detail.  John Rickel  For the fourth quarter of 2008, our net income from continuing operations was $1.8 million or $0.08 per diluted share after adjusting for non-cash asset impairment and gains on debt redemption realized during the quarter.  On a comparable basis net income from continuing operations decreased $14.7 million from $16.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Our fourth quarter 2008 results included the $67.2 million after tax asset impairment charge related to intangible franchise rights. During the fourth quarter, we performed our annual impairment test on our indefinite lived intangible assets, in other words goodwill and franchise rights.  As a result, we recognize an impairment c...
