Mike Smith's strategic goal of making ANZ a super regional bank by 2012 is sure to be achieved ahead of the deadline as banks from Europe and the United States pull out of Asia and go home.  Smith says that the withdrawal of foreign banks from Asia is creating blindingly obvious opportunities. He says the Europeans and Americans are being forced to offload good clients and good assets to shore up their domestic businesses.  The prime example of this  and the bank that could help ANZ fill an important gap in its Asian strategy  is the partly government-owned Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS).  RBS, which this week will announce operating losses of up to 8 billion ($17.8 billion) plus goodwill impairment charges of up to 20 billion, is selling its Asian retail and commercial banking operations.  Stephen Hester, the new chief executive of RBS, is in the process of downsizing or exiting businesses where the risk adjusted returns on equity prospects are considered poor.  The RBS Asian retail operations, which were acquired with the purchase last year of ABN Amro, fit this definition but that does not mean the same would apply for Smith and his team at ANZ.  ANZ could slot the RBS assets into its existing operations and achieve synergy benefits from additional scale and from the combination of the RBS back office and treasury operations with those of ANZ.  ANZ's super regional banking strategy includes the creation of three operating hubs. There is a technology platform run out of Bangalore in India and leadership and product hubs run out of Hong Kong and Singapore.  China and India hold the key to Smith achieving his 2012 goals of lifting Asian profits to $1.5 billion, or 20 per cent of group profit, 300 branches and 1.5 million customers.  ANZ's focus on China and India is because of the huge projected growth in their institutional and retail banking markets.  Greater China's institutional banking wallet is tipped to rise from $US112 billion in 2007 to $US201 billion by 2012, according to numbers prepared by ANZ and Boston Consulting Group. The greater China retail banking wallet is tipped to rise from $69 billion to $US152 billion by 2012.  India's institutional market is tipped to rise from $US12 billion to $US27 billion while its retail banking market is tipped to rise from $US15 billion to $US43 billion by 2012.  ANZ wants to be a top four foreign bank in China and in India, and the purchase of the RBS business in India would give ANZ a banking licence in India, 28 branches and about 1.4 million customers.  ANZ is the front runner to pick up the Indian operations of RBS according to well sourced article on an Indian website Livemint. The article said ANZ had the tick of approval from the Reserve Bank of India and it was ahead of rival offers from Standard Chartered and Singaporean bank DBS.  ANZ's extensive Indian technology operations in Bangalore should prove to be an ace in the pack when it comes to the final decision. The bank employs more than 3,000 people directly on the ANZ payroll.  The RBS retail and commercial banking business in Asia includes operations in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, Pakistan, Singapore and Indonesia.  In the half year to June 2008, the total RBS Asian retail and commercial banking business had total income of 391 million, earnings before impairment charges of 77 million and operating profit of 16 million.  In the half year the division's return on equity of 3 per cent was the lowest of all the business divisions at RBS. It suffers from a very high cost-to-income ratio of 80 per cent.  However, underlying earnings have been growing strongly. Underlying earnings in India rose 57 per cent in 2007 and 25 per cent in the half year to June 2008, while underlying earnings in China rose 131 per cent in 2007 and 89 per cent in the half year to June.  Since Smith arrived at ANZ in September 2007, he has used his contacts to cherry pick some of the best banking executives in Asia from Standard Chartered and HSBC. The ANZ chief executive for Asia Pacific Alex Thursby was a Standard Chartered veteran as are many of the people who report to him.  The bank recently hired Nancy Wong, former chief operating officer of Standard Chartered's Taiwan business, as head of Asia Pacific strategy. Another high profile hire was Christine Ip as CEO of ANZ's China operations.  Smith has the people, the footprint and the infrastructure to capitalise on the opportunities for acquiring assets from forced sellers. RBS could be the first of many distressed sellers. The other bank to watch is Citi. So far it has been able to hold on to its Asian assets, but that may not be the case if it is nationalised.  Smith said on Friday that valuation metrics for banking assets in Asia were much cheaper than a year ago. One bank's adversity is another bank's opportunity and so it may prove for Royal Bank of Scotland and ANZ.  
