Australia's major insurers are tallying claims from the worst natural disaster in Australia's history but say it is too early to estimate costs from the deadly bushfires. Suncorp Metway Ltd, Insurance Australia Group, AMP and AXA Asia Pacific Holdings told As the death toll continued to mount on Monday, Suncorp, Australia's third largest general insurance group, has exposure to the bushfires and the Queensland floods through its general domestic insurance products and commercial property insurance products. It says it will update the market on cost estimates once they become available. The costs of both disasters will add to Suncorp's costs from last year's Brisbane storms which puts Suncorp well on the way to reaching its aggregate reinsurance cover of $250 million per year, Suncorp spokesman Jamin Smith says. This cover applies for multiple separate claims events costing over $10 million and will cover claims from the bushfires and floods, he said. Insurance Australia Group says it is too early to provide an estimate of the cost of the Victorian bushfires. 'While it remains too early to provide an estimate of the cost of the fires which have swept across Victoria, IAG will update the market as soon as it is in a position to do so,' IAG said in a statement on Monday. It said that with effect from 1 January, the group's reinsurance retention for a single event in Australia was a maximum of $126 million. 'The reinsurance retention for a second event is $75 million. The group's main catastrophe reinsurance provides cover in excess of the retention for losses up to $4 billion. 'The group has also renewed with effect from 1 January 2009 its property catastrophe $150 million excess of $150 million aggregate cover, which provides protection for accumulated losses arising from events larger than $15 million and up to $50 million.' AXA spokeswoman Francine McMullen also it was too early to assess claim numbers under its life and income protection policies. AMP has 12 staff on the ground in several fire ravaged Victorian towns and they have been approached by many victims seeking assistance, AMP spokeswoman Sarah Hudson said. No one has made a claim yet under AMP's life insurance and income protection policies, Ms Hudson said. QBE Insurance Group did not return calls. At the close of trading, IAG's shares had dropped 9.49 per cent to $3.24, Suncorp-Metway, which undertook a $900 million capital raising and signalled a 30 per cent drop in its first half net profit last week, plummeted 25.52 per cent to $5.31, QBE Insurance edged up 0.56 per cent to $32.27 and AXA Asia-Pacific rose 1.19 per cent to $4.25. Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard urged insurance companies to show some heart in responding to claims to the bushfires. 'Anybody with a heart would be taking a very sympathetic point of view to people who make claims in these circumstances,' Ms Gillard, a Victorian MP, told 'I am sure that anybody from an insurance company that has looked at their TV screens today is going to see the devastation and understand it is going to trigger claims and that those claims need to be responded to sympathetically and quickly.' Earlier, Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd, ANZ Banking Group Ltd and Westpac Banking Corporation Ltd donated $1 million to the Victorian Bushfire Appeal, established by the state government, while National Australia Bank Ltd was the first to move, setting up a $1 million relief fund. 'Hell and its fury have visited the good people of Victoria,' said Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who announced a $10 million aid package. 'The nation grieves with Victoria. Many good people now lie dead. Many others lie injured,' said Mr Rudd. Firefighters said about 750 homes had been destroyed in the fires across Victoria state so far this weekend, the vast majority in the worst-affected areas north of Melbourne. The army has been put on standby. If you would like to make a donation to the 2009 Victorian Bushfire Fund set up by the Red Cross and federal government, please visit www.redcross.org.au or call 1800 811 700.
