TOY wholesaler Funtastic has revealed plans to restructure its operations after the collapse of major customer ABC Learning slashed $63.5 million from its balance sheet.  Funtastic announced yesterday a $22 million capital raising to fix its balance sheet and fund the $7 million purchase of Hong Kong toy manufacturer NSR.   Its subsidiary Judius is owed $36 million for educational toys and furniture supplied to ABC, but directors had decided to write off the debt, less a deferred tax liability of $10.8million.   Lachlan Murdoch, a former executive of News Corp, the parent company of The Australian, emerged last year as a 14per cent shareholder in Funtastic.   The collapse of ABC meant Judius, which had a 20-year global purchasing contract with the childcare company, would have much smaller sales volumes so Funtastic said the business would be restructured at a cost of $4.2 million.   Funtastic has also made a provision of $11.3 million for bad and doubtful debts of the ABC Group and 123 Global Holdings -- another collapsed entity with which ABC traded.   A further $3 million provision has been made for the closure of Funtastic's US business My Paintbox, which had been set up to service ABC's US subsidiary Learning Care Group.   Funtastic said it was seeking legal advice after Learning Care, now 60 per cent owned by US bank Morgan Stanley, announced it would not buy any further goods from My Paintbox from January 30.   The carrying value of Funtastic's clothing and New Zealand toy businesses have also been cut by $14.4 million, while other write-offs totalled $13.7 million.   The company is now seeking to raise $22 million via a one-for-one rights issue to existing shareholders at 13.5c per share.   The rights issue is being underwritten by Craig Mathieson, who was part of a consortium behind last year's failed $130 million takeover bid for Funtastic.   Part of the capital raising will be used to fund the purchase of toy company NSR from Nir Pizmony, a former Funtastic director who was also involved in last year's consortium bid.   Meanwhile, chief executive Tony Oates has quit and been replaced by former toy division boss Stewart Downs.   Funtastic shares closed at 15.5c on Wednesday but were under a trading halt yesterday.
