PGG Wrightson has managed to pull itself out of the abyss, confirming this morning that it has been successful in renegotiating its debt facilities.  The rural services companys shares have crashed in the last week as the market grew increasingly pessimistic about PGG Wrightsons chances of securing funding to replace the $180 million of debt that matures in April.  But today the company says it has received bank commitments to refinance all of its facilities. ANZ, BNZ and Westpac are providing a total of $475 million in three tranches:  - $125 million amortising facility to December 2010  - $75 million of seasonal working capital to April 2010.  PGG Wrightson had drawn debt of $425 million at 31 December 2008 and $410 million drawn at mid-February. It says this enables sufficient headroom for operational plans and commitments.  PGG Wrightson managing director Tim Miles says the companys banking syndicate is highly supportive of the company and its strategies allowing the business a 21-month period to reduce its leverage to levels acceptable in the current credit environment.  The company has changed its dividend policy to preserve cash and will no longer be funding a buyback option under its distribution plan.  Instead it is intended that the buyback will now be underwritten to provide shareholders with a cash option. The current interim distribution, however, will be by way of a fully imputed bonus issue without a buyback option, PGG Wrightson says.  An interim dividend of 5c per share will be paid to shareholders, in the form of more shares, on April 1.  PGG Wrightson is also planning to reduce working capital through a number of initiatives including improved management of overdue debtors, improved inventory management and a greater focus on procurement and supplier terms of trade.  It says it may sell some small property holdings but it will be retaining all its businesses.  In its interim results, also released this morning, PGG Wrightson posted a loss of $32.8 million for the half year to December on the back of a $35.2 million writedown of its New Zealand Farming Systems Uruguay Stake; a $9.3 million loss on marking to market its currency and interest rate hedges; and $17 million in costs relating to the failed Silver Fern Farms takeover.  Its net operating profit before tax was up 32% to $22.1 million.  PGG Wrightson also placated the market about its concerns over the positions of the companys two major shareholders, Rural Portfolio Investments and Pyne Gould Corporation.  Rural Portfolio Investments has $44.6 million of debt it needs to refinance in April and Pyne Gould has signaled that it wishes to apply for a banking licence and may need to dispose of its stake.  PGG Wrightson's major shareholders remain committed to PGG Wrightson. Rural Portfolio Investments has advised that it is well advanced on refinancing its redeemable preference shares that are due in April and Pyne Gould Corporation has confirmed that it has no intention to be selling in the current market, PGG Wrightson says.  
