 says its first quarter profit fell two per cent, amid challenging market conditions.  The bank on Wednesday said its pro-forma unaudited cash earnings for the  31 was about $1.2 billion, down two per cent on the prior corresponding period. The result includes , which it took over last year. 'Our underlying performance remains solid as we continue to support our customers in what is clearly a deteriorating economic environment,' chief executive Gail Kelly said.  Total lending in the quarter rose 2.4 per cent, over the prior quarter, with particularly good growth in mortgage and business lending in Australia, the bank said.  Lending growth in Westpac's institutional and New Zealand businesses was slower.  Customer deposits grew strongly over the prior quarter, up 9.6 per cent. 'Group revenue was up strongly, particularly in net interest income with improved margins,' the bank said. 'Non-interest income growth was also healthy, although wealth revenues were weaker.' Expenses were running at a marginally lower rate than the full 2008 year growth rate.  Westpac also said impairment charges rose to $800 million for in the December quarter, from $144 million in the prior corresponding period.  The December quarter impairment experience was impacted by a $360 million increase in provisions for three large corporate exposures. 'While the first quarter was specifically impacted by these three problem exposures, asset quality in the corporate and commercial portfolio continues to deteriorate consistent with the weakening of economic activity,' the bank said. 'The Australian consumer portfolio continues to perform soundly with only a small increase in delinquencies.' Westpac's retail and business Banking had a solid start to the fiscal 2009 year. with strong revenue growth offset somewhat by higher impairments, principally in commercial lending. 'Consumer delinquencies are a little higher over the quarter although consumer losses and impairment charges remain small,' it added. Its institutional banking operation continued to benefit from strong customer related revenue in markets and financing. 'However this has been significantly offset by higher impairment charges in the quarter.' The wealth business, BT Financial Group, was being hit by volatility in asset markets, but had produced sound results in life insurance.  Westpac also said its Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.3 per cent at December 31 and that it had completed about $13 billion of term wholesale funding to date. 'With global economic conditions continuing to be volatile, operating conditions will remain difficult,' Mrs Kelly said.
