Addressing the audience at Nasscom event, Credit Suisse CIO Divyesh Vithlani said, BFSI would continue to bank on IT worldwide. Short term challenges are longer term opportunities for banks. In volatile markets there would be high asset correlation. There would be a need to focus on growth perspectives and immediate issues. Banks would be committed to integrated business model like that of IT agility which involves focus on clients and to manage technology assets. There is a need to have balanced IT operating model which includes controlling of IT risks, growing the IT workforce of future key priorities for agile IT organizations, ensuring quality and stability. The reliance on IT continues to grow. Indian IT has a bright future in taking BFSI forward, he added. JP Morgan Chase Executive Director Jonathan Teplitz said, Banks would have to innovate to enable growth. There are going to be new products, new markets and one should imagine the capacity. Adapting technology with cost effective methods would be our major challenge but we need IT to reach our customers. Technology has to keep up. We have to stay competitive though our margins are shrinking and it is hard to offer service. Technology is the heart of everything. This enables an access to workforce and helps in improving our risk management. Discussing about IT need in banks, Standard Chartered CTO David Awcock said: The face of banking has shockingly changed forever. There was capitalization of banks in 2007 and now we see market capitalization. The worlds best international bank is heading the way in Asia, Africa and Middle East. IT plays an important role in banking sector and would continue to outsource more and more IT companies but they would invest selectively and would focus more on flexible and adaptive companies as their main focus would be capital management. Banks which would change their strategies would continue working, rest would be gone forever. Political influence would play a major part, he added. But technology adoption in banks come with its own challenges, especially in such economic times. TowerGroup Research Director Rodney Nelsestuen said, Price presence would play a significant part in recession. Financial services would face the challenge of managing capital. Technology solution would be required for it. The incidents like terror attacks in Mumbai and Satyam scandal leave impacts on BFSI industry which asks for security. National Australian Banks expansion of offshored services is till on hold due to the impact of terror attack. A mid sized U.S. Bank cancelled its request for proposal.  At the time when global economies are not promising, banks from all over the world are talking about a core need of increasing IT investments to improve business performance 
