Businessman Andrew Davidson knows fair play when he sees it.  As a director of Scarborough Fair, a fair trade chocolate, tea and coffee company, Davidson has fair dealing uppermost in his mind most days.  It is an irony that he is now one of the two official spokesmen for the Frozen Funds action group set up by ANZ customers and clients of financial advisers seeking a fair compensation package for, they allege, having been sold ING's disastrous Diversified Yield Fund and Regular Income Fund structured credit products as far lower risk than they proved to be.  Ironies abound, as Davidson is not only an investor with ANZ, he is also a shareholder.  But he denies a shareholder should be averse to ANZ submitting to the group's demand for the bank to cash every saver out of the funds at a dollar a unit. Currently, the funds' units are languishing at just 29c and 21c respectively.  'As a shareholder, the most important thing for me is to see that brand shown in a good light because that is the best way to grow a business,' Davidson said.  The pressure group was also not an attempt to get the bank to capitulate to save its reputation. 'That's the last thing I would want to be associated with because it is pointless trying to hold guns to people's heads and seek solutions that way. We want to be very responsible about how we deal with this.  'The strategy is fairly simple. We have no other axe to grind. If our company sold a dodgy product, we would stand by it and recall it. ING and ANZ should do the same. That would be seen by the public of New Zealand as fair,' he said.  'This is not people griping because they have taken a hit on the money. It is about how the product was represented to people.'  To accede to that demand would cost the bank, and ING, hundreds of millions of dollars, as the two funds at their peak contained more than $800 million of savers' money.  But Davidson says ANZ and ING have regularly reported profits of 'billions, not millions' and the money is there, if the companies choose to do the right thing.  The other official spokesman for the group is Auckland accountant Hector Fsadni, another investor in Diversified Yield Fund.  Like Davidson, Fsadni wants the public to understand he's not motivated purely by personal loss.  Fsadni said: 'I'm 50. I have time on my side. I will bounce back. In the worst-case scenario, if the money is lost, it is not the end of the world. The ones I feel for are the elderly investors. That's why I got involved.'  Both believe an amicable solution to the impasse is achievable.  ANZ and ING NZ, 49% owned by ANZ, deny they have done anything wrong. ANZ also had all clients sign liability waivers which purport to limit the bank's liability 'for any failure to exercise reasonable care and skill' to no more than the fees they paid to the bank.  Fsadni said the first step in the Frozen Funds group's plan was to connect investors in the funds, amass numbers and gather evidence.  Investors are invited to sign up to a newsletter The Frozen Funds File.  Launching now gives time for investors to get organised before ING calls a meeting, due by March 30, to vote on a wind-up plan.  That will include the offer of a $100m loan to tide investors over, an offer neither Davidson or Fsadni believes is fair.  Fsadni believes mounting pressure will tell before then, particularly as the Commerce Commission has begun investigating. 'I'm expecting ING to come up with a better offer,' Fsadni said.  Davidson said there was a 'staggering' amount of documentary evidence supporting claims of mis-selling.  One of those documents is a file prepared by a retired judge whom ANZ advised to invest in Diversified Yield Fund after sending a salesman round to his house, says Fsadni.  The group can be contacted at INGANZFrozenFunds@gmail.com or PO Box 38 439 Howick or (Ph) 09 379 1116 from Monday.  
