WESTPAC admitted it had unfairly denied customers a special 'fixed rate' home loan offer that was marketed throughout Australia in December.  The admission comes at a sensitive time for Westpac and the other major banks which are trying to stave off Federal Government moves to protect consumers against proposed unfair contract laws.  Following a report last month on Westpac's marketing of a 4.99 per cent fixed rate home loan,  received several complaints from readers who had tried unsuccessfully to secure the offer.  Westpac advertised the special rate in December, but some applicants were advised by customer service staff that the bank could vary the offer at any time, even after customers had signed loan documents.  This triggered concerns that Westpac's advertising campaign had been misleading because the bank had refused to offer the 4.99 per cent rate fixed over three years to all applicants.  One of the affected Victorian customers, Colin Winstanley, told  he and his wife were offered a rate of only 5.49 per cent after applying for the special rate. 'We got our application in well before the December 19 deadline, but we were told the bank could vary the offer at any time, including after we signed the loan documents,' he said. 'We found the whole process unethical in the end and decided not to proceed.' Westpac spokesman David Lording last night admitted that the bank had erred in Mr Winstanley's case but said its advertising was not misleading. 'We made a mistake in the processing of this particular application and we apologise,' he said. 'That was a genuine offer and we made an administrative error.' Mr Lording said the bank had been inundated with applications which created a processing backlog.  Mr Winstanley said he was worried about the bank's policy of levying so-called 'lock-in' fees which gave prospective borrowers some sort of entitlement to the discount fixed rate.  Banks and other financial institutions often insert special clauses in loan contracts so that they can vary the terms and conditions affecting borrowers.  Federal Consumer Affairs Minister Chris Bowen said the government's planned reforms to consumer protection would give the Australian Consumer and Competition Commission new enforcement powers to penalise financial institutions trying to put unfair terms in loan contracts. 
