AIG plans $15bn disposals before year end AIG plans $15bn disposals before year end By Francesco Guerrera and Julie MacIntosh in New York and Andrea Felsted in London Published: December 10 2008 23:15   Last updated: December 10 2008 23:15 AIG is planning to announce more than $15bn worth of disposals before the end of the year  a move that would enable the stricken US insurer to pay back part of a $60bn government loan and ease the burden of its $150bn federal bail-out. People familiar with the situation said AIG was in the final stages of the sale of its US personal lines business, which has been valued by analysts at $5bn-$6bn. EDITORS CHOICE In depth: Global financial crisis - Dec-10The US insurer MetLife and its Swiss rival Zurich were interested in the unit, whose offerings include car and home insurance, they added. Asia-based bankers said AIG was also closing on the disposal of American Life Insurance Co (Alico)  a business with an estimated value of more than $10bn that has large operations in Japan. Frances Axa is believed to be one of the front-runners. Other companies, including MetLife and the Chinese sovereign wealth fund CIC, were also interested in buying parts of the business if AIG failed to clinch a sale of the whole unit or a buyer wanted to break it up, they added. Several companies have also expressed an interest in Hartford Steam Boiler, an AIG division that insures energy projects. People close to the situation said that Munich, the German insurer, and the West Virginia-based group Allegheny Insurance were among the front-runners for the company, which is believed to be worth about $1bn-$2bn. AIG and the other companies declined to comment on the deals or could not be reached. Munich has said it could be interested in parts of AIGs businesses, including specialist insurance and reinsurance businesses in the US and primary insurers in Asia and eastern Europe. People close to the situation warned that no disposal had yet been clinched and that talks could still collapse or be delayed until after the end of the year. But after being rescued by the US authorities twice this year, AIGs only hope of surviving as an independent company and persuading customers to stay is to sell assets and repay the governments five-year loan as soon as possible. Separately, AIG on Wednesday denied a Wall Street Journal report that it owed banks $10bn on derivative trades and could be forced to find new capital to pay for the new exposure. The company said it had a $9.8bn nominal exposure to the trades, which are part of its $71.6bn portfolio of credit default swaps. However, it said its actual exposure was much lower because the positions had already been written down. It added that the exposure would be addressed by using funds already provided by the Federal Reserve. AIG officials said the main issue with the $9.8bn worth of trades was that they were synthetic swaps that did not have an underlying security. As a result, they had to be resolved in a different want from other credit default swaps, which are being bought by a vehicle funded by the Fed. Additional reporting by James Wilson in Frankfurt Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2008 :
