Bit of an update on this story.      Congressman Wants Answers     Cummings, a Maryland Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, asked AIG to disclose how much each of the 168 recipients made in salary, bonuses and other kinds of pay. In a letter dated today, Cummings also asked for an estimate of what AIG would have spent on employee compensation in 2008 had the firm not sought U.S. help, compared with what it expected to spend.     AIG is selling businesses including its U.S. life-insurance and retirement-services operations. Collectively, the assets for sale equal almost 65 percent of our company and employ approximately 70,000 people, Liddy wrote. Total employment is about 116,000, he said.     AIG spokesman Joe Norton declined to comment. Another AIG spokesman, Nicholas Ashooh, previously said that many AIG managers have lost their life savings.     AIGs managers have overseen a record $37.6 billion in net losses so far this year. Cummings has called for Liddys resignation and said AIG should provide names of those getting retention pay and explain why the awards are needed. Firms accepting taxpayer money shouldnt enrich employees, he said.     Flight Risk     Keeping the managers is necessary to maintain credit ratings and meet requirements in some reinsurance agreements, Liddy wrote. AIG disclosed the initial list of 130 managers in a September filing without saying how much most of the recipients will get. Another 38 people were added subsequently, according to Liddys letter, which didnt disclose the new recipients or say when they had been added.     The list was expanded so AIG can retain people with key client relationships and who have a high degree of flight risk, Liddy wrote. He cited their deep experience, extremely valuable business relationships, and unique ties to the many local communities where they live and work.     Recipients will get the payments in two installments starting this month, while 13 top managers agreed to delay the first award until April, Liddy said in the Dec. 5 letter.      http://tinyurl.com/59bacw       --    All Your Love     http://tinyurl.com/6z3dxv 
