NEW DELHI: The truth in Satyam is caught up in such a tangled web of falsehood and forgery that the government now finds it difficult to move ahead with a rescue plan.  A stock-taking exercise at the highest level of government has ascertained that Satyam immediately requires Rs 1,000 crore to pay rents in the US and salaries. However, the government is unlikely to provide any funds because of a report from the Registrar of Companies that the documents accessed from the company are a pack of lies. Satyams beleaguered statutory auditor Price Waterhouse has also told the government that it had physically verified with the banks concerned fixed deposit receipts worth Rs 3,300 crore.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who took stock of the situation with his senior colleagues Pranab Mukherjee, P Chidambaram, Kamal Nath, Premchand Gupta and Montek Singh Ahluwalia, was of the view that the government can discuss a rescue plan for the company only after assessing the nature of the companys troubles. Every document is forged and the government cannot make an assessment now, said a minister who attended the meeting.  Before the meeting, the government leadership also met PWC representatives. The auditors shared with the government leaders the details of fixed deposit receipts provided to them.  PWC has told the government they had physically verified FD receipts worth Rs 3,300 crore with banks such as HSBC, PNB, ICICI Bank, Citibank and HDFC Bank. The authenticity of the FDs has been a concern. If the statutory auditor merely went by the documents submitted by the company, its conduct would be deemed deficient. The auditor is expected to check with the banks the veracity of FD receipts.  Now that the auditor has indeed checked with the banks, disgraced Satyam chairman B Ramalinga Rajus claim that funds are missing because of inflated revenues and profits rather than because money was siphoned out seems more suspect. It is now almost clear that many documents are fabricated, said the minister.  Given this backdrop, the government cant blindly underwrite a bailout package. The government just cannot write out a cheque. In this situation, no bank will be willing to lend money to the company, said the minister.  The government, meanwhile, has asked the agencies to probe the role of institutional investors in the crisis. The probe will cover ILFS, HDFC Mutual Fund, DSP Blackrock, and Deutsche Bank. The government has also directed market regulator Sebi to probe the large purchase of Satyam shares by L&amp;amp;T, HSBC and Deutsche Bank. We will have to find out whether these investors are acting on someones behalf, said the minister.  
