Most of Ford Motor Co.'s overseas and credit operations, which once helped the automaker offset losses in its long-struggling North American business, deteriorated in the last three months of 2008 and could get worse as the global economic crisis deepens. Lower sales volumes around the world, and unfavorable currency exchanges, were largely to blame.   Citibank analyst Itay Michaeli said the losses in Ford's global divisions should be watched closely in this delicate environment. 'It could be the story of 2009, in some ways,' he said. 'The declines in South American and even Europe are still relatively new...So you are still in the middle of that downturn.' Michaeli said the financial results released by Ford today for Ford in Europe and Latin America and Volvo's results were all worse than he expected and are likely to face an even tougher times this year.   Ford Motor Credit Co.   During the fourth quarter, Ford Credit reported a pre-tax loss of $372 million, compared with a pre-tax profit of $263 million a year ago. Ford said the decline was largely a result of accounting for credit losses and lower sales volumes.   The business unit was also affected by Ford's decision to sell Jaguar and Land Rover in WHEN, a move that caused the credit arm to no longer provide loan services for those brands. The financing company is also in the process of exiting business with Mazda dealers because of Ford's decision to sell a portion of its controlling interest in the Asian automaker, spokeswoman Margaret Mellott said.   Ford Credit is now undergoing a broader restructuring as a result of those moves.   Starting in mid-February, Ford Credit plans to cut about 1,200 jobs, or 20% of the workforce. The move will impact about 275 employees, or 20%, of the company's staff in Dearborn.   Ford is the only domestic automaker that still completely owns its own financial company, but that isn't going to change anytime soon, Mulally said. 'We believe more than ever that Ford Motor Credit is a strategic asset,' he said. Volvo   During the fourth quarter, Volvo posted a pre-tax loss of $736 million. The Swedish luxury automaker broke even during the same period in 2007.   In December, Ford put Volvo under a strategic review. While For1d has reportedly decided to sell the company, Ford executives today declined to comment on those reports.   Under the current economic climate, where access to credit is limited, analysts have said that finding a buyer for Volvo could be difficult.   Lewis Booth, Ford's executive vice president and CFO, said management teams on both sides of the Atlantic are 'completely consumed with fixing the business...that needs to be done whatever happens.' Europe   During the fourth quarter, Ford's European operations posted a pre-tax loss of $330 million, compared with a profit of $223 million during the same period a year ago. The loss in Europe is especially troubling for Ford since that business unit has introduced a number of new small cars in recent years that have been well received and become top-sellers.   South America   During the fourth quarter, Ford's South American operations, another important market for the automaker, posted a pre-tax loss of $105 million, compared with $418 million during the same period a year ago.   Asia Pacific and Africa   During the fourth quarter, Ford's business unit for Asia Pacific and Africa, once a promising center of potential growth, reported a pre-tax loss of $208 million, compared with a profit of $10 million a year ago.   Contact BRENT SNAVELY at 313-222-6512 or bsnavely@freepress.com. 
