5:00 pm ET Executives Timothy Ring - Chairman and CEO Todd Schermerhorn - SVP and CFO John Weiland - President and COO John DeFord - SVP-Science, Technology and Clinical Affairs Analysts Miroslava Minkova - Leerink Swann Taylor Harris - JPMorgan Mimi Pham - JMP Securities Matthew Dodds - Citigroup Bob Hopkins - Bank of America Joanne Wuensch - BMO Capital Markets Kristen Stewart - Credit Suisse Greg Simpson - Stifel Nicolaus Christopher Warren - Caris &amp; Company David Bachman - Longbow Research Jayson Bedford - Raymond James Brooks West - Craig-Hallum Capital Presentation Operator Welcome to the C.R. Bard, Incorporated fourth quarter 2008 earnings results conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's presentation will be hosted by Timothy M. Ring, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with John H. Weiland, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Todd C. Schermerhorn, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Also in attendance today are John A. DeFord, Senior Vice President, Science, Technology and Clinical Affairs; and Eric J. Shick, Vice President, Investor Relations. Today, Bard's management will discuss some forward-looking statements, the accuracy of which are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information in Bard's September 30th, 2008, 10-Q and the information under the caption Risk Factors in the company's 2007 10-K, including disclosure of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. During the call, references will be made to certain non-GAAP measures, which management believes provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the core operating performance of the company and its individual product franchises. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures are provided in Bard's earnings press release and on the company's website at www.crbard.com. All information that is not historical is given only as of January 29th, 2009, and the company undertakes no responsibility to update any information. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are to the prior-year period. At this time, I will turn the call over to Mr. Timothy Ring. Please go ahead, sir. Timothy Ring Thanks, Cathy. I'd like to welcome everybody to Bard's fourth quarter 2008 earnings call and thank you all for taking the time to join us today. We would expect that the formal presentation portion of the call will last around 25 minutes. The agenda today will be as follows. I'll begin with an overview of the fourth quarter results for 2008. John Weiland, our President and COO, will review fourth quarter product line revenue. Todd Schermerhorn, our Senior VP and CFO, will review the fourth quarter income statement and balance sheet as well as our expectations for the first quarter of this year. Since we just covered our product development pipeline in depth at our December 18th Analyst Meeting, we'll wait giving update on that at our first quarter earnings call. And, then finally, we'll close with Q&amp;A. Looking at the fourth quarter, net sales totaled $634.2 million. This represents an increase over the fourth quarter of 2007 of 9% on an as-reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis. Currency impact for the quarter versus the same quarter of '07 was unfavorable by around 300 basis points. Our net sales for the full year 2008 were $2.4521 billion, an increase of 11% on as-reported basis and 10% on a constant currency basis. Net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $149.4 million and diluted EPS were $1.47. Excluding an item that affected the comparability of results between periods, fourth quarter 2008 net income and diluted EPS were $121.1 million and $1.19, up 15% and 18% respectively over the prior-year period. Todd will cover the Q4 2008 item when he discusses the income statement in a few minutes. For the full year 2008, net income was $416.5 million and the diluted EPS were $4.06. Again, adjusting for items that affect comparability between periods, for the full year 2008, net income was $455.4 million and diluted EPS were $4.44, up 13% and 16% respectively over full year 2007 results. Now looking at the revenue growth geographically, again, on a constant currency basis, fourth quarter net sales in the US were up 11%. Europe grew at 14%. Japan increased 13%. And our other international businesses grew 15%. We were very pleased with the strong results across all of the geographies this past quarter. Now looking at our four major businesses, in the fourth quarter, our vascular, urology and oncology businesses each delivered strong growth over the prior-year period. Our urology business did benefit from the impact of accelerated dealer purchasing in advance of price increases that occurred January 1st of 2009. We estimate that these purchases may be a just a little under 1% to the company's total constant currency revenue growth for the quarter. We do expect some offset in correction in dealer inventory levels that one factors the other way this quarter. Todd will discuss that in more detail in a couple of minutes. Looking at our surgery business, it increased 1% in constant currency over the prior-year quarter against a substantially more challenging comp than we had in the third quarter. And John will give you more details of that when he goes to the product revenue review in a couple of minutes. On the business development front, we continue to pursue a number of opportunities, but we didn't close any transactions this past quarter. We acknowledge, whether it's the potential for better deal price in the market given the current economy, we won't make an acquisition simply because it's a Bard way. We continue to maintain our discipline and we look at long-term revenue growth potential through value-added acquisitions. Just a brief summary and I'll conclude it at the end of the session. We are pleased to conclude another very successful quarter and a year. Our ability to deliver double-digit constant currency revenue growth, even though our surgical business was flat for the year, reflects the strategic benefit of a strong diverse product portfolio. We've built a consistent record of performance, delivering adjusted EPS growth above our target of 14% for now six consecutive years. We've achieved it through product innovation, commitment to market leadership, diligent investment in our business and the talent and hard work of our employees all around the world. As we enter 2009, the consistent execution of our strategy along with our solid financial fundamentals position us well for further success during these challenging economic times. Let me turn you over to John Weiland for an overview of the product lines John Weiland Good evening, everyone. Let me preface my comments by noting that I'll be giving all percentage growth data in comparison to the prior-year period on a constant currency basis, unless specifically noted otherwise. So let's begin with our vascular business. Total net sales for the fourth quarter in this category were $168.5 million, increasing 23% over the last year. The increase was 19% on as-reported basis. Our US business, which represents 53% of global vascular revenue, was up 22% for the quarter. Internationally, we grew 25%. Our electrophysiology business grew 14% for the quarter. Our steerable diagnostic catheters, standard ablation catheters, 8-bit product line, and LabSystem businesses all grew double digits for the quarter with 8-bit leading the way at 42% growth. Graft product sales, which represented 14% of the vascular category, were up 5% this quarter, primarily due to the weaker comp in OEM sales within the category. Our endovascular business had a very strong performance, growing 32% in the fourth quarter. Our biopsy product line was up 10% with our VACORA vacuum-assisted device up 14% and our breast biopsy market line up 23%. Sales in our peripheral PTA line increased 34%. Our Dorado 5 French standard PTA catheter line continues to be the primary growth driver here. With the success of Dorado building on our leadership positions in the high pressure and large diameter segments, we have moved into the number two position in the total peripheral PTA market. Looking ahead, we believe our technology platform affords us the opportunity to take further share in this space. Growth in our vena cava filter line accelerated to 30% this quarter versus the prior-year period, augmented by our new G2 EXPRESS Filter launched in the third quarter. Our continued growth is driven by the strong clinical performance of our differentiated technology, which should translate into further market penetration going forward. Our stent business grew 57% in the fourth quarter. The acceleration in growth here resulted largely from the PMA approval and launch of our FLAIR AV access stent graft in October '08. We saw some robust stocking orders following approval. So the initial reception has been quite good. We also continue to see nice sequential growth with LifeStent in Europe. Last week at the ISET meeting in Miami, Dr. Barry Katzen presented the update on the LifeStent RESILIENT clinical study of 206 patients randomized to PTA plus LifeStent versus PTA only. In 24 months, the LifeStent arm demonstrated a 78% freedom from target lesion revascularization versus 42% in the PTA-only arm. This result is highly statistically significant and demonstrates a very durable clinical result. The fracture rate at 18 months was also quite low at 3.8%. The December PMA approval of an iliac indication for E.LUMINEXX stent should strengthen this franchise further as we move into 2009. In late December, the FDA also issued an approvable letter for an SFA indication for LifeStent. We continue to anticipate receiving PMA approval by late Q1 or possibly Q2 this year. We've talked a lot about the value of having peripheral vascular stent approvals in the US...
