NEW YORK, Jan 21 (Reuters) - Consolidation by banks taking  massive losses from bad loans is reducing the number of lenders  and amount of capital available to companies, and this is  likely to make it even more challenging for them to renew debt  facilities that many rely on to survive.  Banks have been increasing the cost of corporate loans at  the same time as they reduce the size of the facilities as  companies struggle to maintain access to funds.  In some cases, such as recently seen with U.S. retailer Liz  Claiborne, banks are also demanding that assets are  pledged against the loans, as they hesitate to continue their  exposures to companies in troubled industries.  As more banks consolidate, or fail, companies struggling to  renew their debt facilities may now also find that some  companies they borrowed from are no longer there.  This may significantly reduce the amount of loans they are  able to refinance or, for the most distressed firms, result in  their failure.  'If somebody used to have part of their bank line from  Merrill and part from Bank of America  (nyse: BAC -  news  -  people ), they know for a fact  they aren't going to get both pieces back,' said Leslie Barbi,  head of fixed income at fund manager RS Investments.  'I think one concern is just the consolidation in the  industry,' she added. 'Each new larger bank may still only want  a certain amount per issuer and its likely to be smaller now  than it was when there were more players trying to each compete  and have a piece.'  Lehman Brothers  (nyse: LEHMQ -  news  -  people ) failure, Bank of America's  acquisition of Merrill Lynch  (nyse: MER -  news  -  people ), and JPMorgan's  acquisition of Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual  (nyse: WM -  news  -  people ) have all  reduced the amount of available capital.  As the banking industry shrinks, distressed companies such  as AbitibiBowater Inc  (nyse: ABH -  news  -  people ) and General Growth Properties  (nyse: GGP -  news  -  people ) , which are in discussions to renew bank credit  agreements, may have a harder time renewing the facilities.  'The more stressed companies are the more banks will look  for ways to lower line totals or pull the line completely,'  Barbi said.  ALTERNATIVE LENDERS  'Bank consolidation is definitely a negative for companies,  when they return to the market there will be less competition  in the number of established banks,' said Anthony Clemente,  Chief Executive at asset manager Canaras Capital Management.  As capital-constrained banks pull back, however, other  investors, including asset managers, are preparing to step in.  For a related story, see  'The problem with the largest banks now is that they are  suffering from past sins and they're taking massive losses on  aged or antiquated portfolios,' Clemente said. 'But new lending  situations could be very profitable.'  The average cost of a 3-year loan for a 'BB'-rated company,  one tier below investment grade, soared to around 1,300 basis  points over the London interbank offered rate (Libor) in the  fourth quarter, compared with 352 basis points a year earlier,  according to data from Thomson Reuters LPC.  Investment grade loan costs also jumped, with a 'BBB'-rated  company paying 185 basis points over Libor in the fourth  quarter, up from 50 basis points a year earlier, LPC data  shows.  With loans generating strong returns, more nontraditional  lenders are expected to enter the market.  'You don't really know what the providers of credit are  going to look like -- will they be banks, new start-ups,  insurance companies or investment funds,' said Clemente.  'In the U.S. we have a lot of providers beginning to step  into that void and I think it could be actually a positive in  the longer term, but a negative for liquidity in the shorter  term,' he added.  (Editing by James Dalgleish)  For other related fixed-income quotations, stories and guides to Reuters pages, please double click on the symbol: U.S. corporate bond price quotations... U.S. credit default swap column........ U.S. credit default swap news.......... European corporate bond market report.. European corporate bond market report.. Credit default swap guide.............. Fixed income guide..................... U.S. swap spreads report............... U.S. Treasury market report............ U.S. Treasury outlook.................. U.S. municipal bond market report...... Keywords: MARKETS CREDIT/  (karen.brettell@thomsonreuters.com; Tel: +1 646 223 6274; Reuters Messaging: karen.brettell.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
