Australian Foundation Investment Company (AFIC) said it had $760 million to support its own 2009 dividend payments if necessary after it suffered a two-thirds plunge in interim profit.  Australia's largest and oldest listed investment company said it would be hurt by any large cuts to dividends from its $2.7 billion of investments in many of Australia's largest listed companies.  But reserves of $420 million in retained earnings and $340 million of realised capital gains could be tapped to ensure AFIC's shareholders were insulated for a while, managing director Ross Barker told AAP. 'We used these in the early 1990s when some of the banks stopped paying dividends,' Mr Barker said. 'Obviously if that goes on for too long you can't maintain that indefinitely but it would certainly be our hope to maintain our dividend. 'But as there are no guarantees you just have to wait and see what the companies we invest in do.' AFIC released its interim 2008/09 results on Wednesday, showing a 66 per cent dive in net profit to $108.9 million for the six months to December 31, 2008 from $326,138 million for the previous corresponding period.  It maintained its interim dividend at eight cents per share.  Mr Barker said AFIC's net profit moved markedly depending on divestments. 'In the previous year we had big gains because we sold our Rinker shares and Coles Myer which weren't repeated this year.' Net operating profit eased 2.5 per cent to $107.8 million during first half 2008/09 as the value of AFIC's trading portfolio softened.  The portfolio outperformed the general market by three per cent, by falling 24 per cent over the first half year compared to a 27 per cent drop suffered by the wider market.  Corporate activity drove major asset sales in AFIC's portfolio including Westpac's takeover of St George Bank, and British Gas' takeover of Queensland Gas.  Divestments included investments in ConnectEast, and the sale of the majority of AFIC's holding in Suncorp Metway, while share  purchases came from recent capital raisings including Alumina, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Incitec Pivot, National Australia Bank, and Westpac.  AFIC expects corporate activity to be somewhat subdued during 2009 until debt markets become functional enough to support takeover activity. 'There will be lots of companies wanting to tap the market for more equity,' Mr Barker said. 'The takeover activity is probably not likely to recover quickly until around 2010.' AFIC will keep its large holdings of local banking stocks as the investment group takes a five to ten year investment perspective. 'We think they'll come out of this (downturn) very much stronger competitively because the smaller banks and quasi banks ... they'll all find it much harder to get access to funds,' he said. 'The foreign banks too will be pulling back their activities.' The company's dividend reinvestment plan for the interim dividend has been maintained with the discount rising from nil to five per cent.  Shares in AFIC finished two cents weaker on Wednesday at $3.87.
