MUMBAI: State-owned financial institutions are likely to respond favourably to the call for financial support made by Satyams new board. Life Insurance Corporation, IDBI Bank and Bank of Baroda (BoB) are the institutions that agreed to provide funds. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India has said that bank exposure to Satyam is relatively small as it is not a leveraged company.  The new Satyam board, comprising HDFC chief Deepak Parekh Nasscoms former chief Kiran Karnik and former Sebi member C Achuthan, among others, has approached lenders for a loan of close to Rs 900 crore for one year. The IT company needs about Rs 1,700 crore in the near future for its functioning including salary payment and establishment cost. The gap between the income from clients and company requirement is close to Rs 900 crore, said a banker familiar with the Satyam development.  Lenders, on their side, have made it clear to the new management that they will not extend general purpose loan. Banks will lend only against receivable or against pledge of some physical property, said sources. Only when banks are fully satisfied with the securities, the money will be lent to Satyam. Each lender is likely to peg the loan at prime lending rate ranges 12.5-13.5%.  BoB is already a banker to Satyam, although it has a very small exposure of less than Rs 2 crore. IDBI and LIC will be new lenders to the IT company. Employees had salary account with ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Citibank.  Also Read   Raju denies fudging employee figures, fund diversion   The nightmare continues for Satyam employees   Satyam names bankers, to pay salaries on time   Employees exiting Satyam may have to give up gratuity  The objective of the government constituted board has been to keep the show going at Satyam and retain employees and customers. In the medium term, the company will require new promoters to survive. L&amp;T, which has an IT subsidiary, has emerged a potential buyer with a 12% stake. However, cases against Satyam in the US and Sebi guidelines requiring an open offer at six month average prices are deterrents.  Responding to the queries on Satyam during the monetary policy press meet, RBI governor D Subbarao said that there was no bank irregularity in the Satyam case and the collapse of the IT giant does not pose any systemic risk. Mr Subbarao hinted that the bank exposure could be a few hundred crores. Numbers are relatively small since Satyam was a not very leveraged company, he said. RBI is also likely to take action against Satyams auditors PriceWaterhouseCoopers once reports from the police, ICAI and Sebi come in. Only when the report from ICAI comes in , we will be able to take any action on PwC, he said.  Among the institutions LIC has a wider interest as it is also a large shareholder in the IT company. Other insurers and MFs holding large takes in Satyam bailed out at a loss when the scale of fraud became clear. LIC, however, has decided to hold and ensure that the company gets back on the rails.  
