By Tony Munroe  HONG KONG, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Top U.S. lender Bank of America , raising cash to weather a dismal market at home, sold a $2.83 billion chunk of its holding in China Construction Bank on Wednesday, dragging the Chinese bank's stock 5 percent lower.   China's three largest banks attracted big strategic investments from western financial giants at the time of their initial public offerings. Those investors are now under pressure to sell as the global financial crisis ravages the banking industry, and further sales are expected.  Bank of America sold more than 5.62 billion shares, or nearly 13 percent of its holding in Construction Bank, at HK$3.92 apiece, in a widely anticipated sale, according to a term sheet obtained by Reuters and a person familiar with the matter. 'The news has been expected but investors will still take it hard because BoA will most definitely sell more. They need the money,' said Francis Lun, general manager with Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong.  Bank of America realises a profit of about $1.13 billion on the stake sale, based on Construction Bank's IPO price. It sold the stake at a 12 percent discount to the stock's Tuesday closing price, according to the term sheet.  Bank of America had planned a similar sale last month, but cancelled it, sources familiar with the situation said.  The stake sold represents about 2.5 percent in Construction Bank, and will leave Bank of America with a 16.6 percent holding in the Beijing-controlled lender once the sale is completed.  Bank of America bought its initial stake in Construction Bank ahead of the mainland lender's 2005 IPO and built its holding up to just over 19 percent.  Speculation that the U.S. bank would look to trim its stake has been rife since a 3-year lock-up on the initial chunk expired.  Construction Bank's shares fell 5.2 percent to HK$4.22 by 0345 GMT in a flat broader market.  Embattled Swiss bank UBS recently sold its holding in Bank of China. British lender Royal Bank of Scotland also holds a large stake in Bank of China.  Citigroup said Bank of China may see stake sales this year by Royal Bank of Scotland, which holds 8.3 percent, and Singapore state investment agency Temasek Holdings, which owns 4.1 percent. Lockups on those stakes lapsed in December, it said.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China could also come under stake sale pressure this year.  Goldman Sachs, Allianz and American Express Co own a combined 7.3 percent in ICBC, with lockups lapsing in April and October, Citigroup said in a note.  ICBC shares were down 4.9 percent.  Bank of America's newly acquired Merrill Lynch arm, as well as UBS, handled Wednesday's share sale. Buyers of the shares must hold them for at least 120 days, the term sheet said.  China Construction Bank said the sale does not change its relationship with Bank of America. 'Bank of America has said many times that it will reduce some of its stake, and it will not change its status as an important shareholder,' the Chinese lender said in a statement. 'China Construction Bank will continue to work with and further strengthen cooperation with Bank of America in business development,' it said. ($1=HK$7.8)  (Additional reporting by Umesh Desai, Parvathy Ullatil, Nerilyn Tenorio and Donny Kwok; Editing by Nick Macfie and Anshuman Daga) Keywords: BANKOFAMERICA CCB/ (tony.munroe@reuters.com; Reuters Messaging: tony.munroe.reuters.com@reuters.net; +852 2843 6358, Fax +852 2845 0636) 
