LONDON, Jan 15 (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland Chief Executive Stephen Hester's strategic review is taking shape and other options include selling RBS Insurance, Coutt's private bank or Asian retail operations.   Hester is likely to be sounding out buyers for the assets, but the injection of 20 billion pounds ($29.2 billion) of taxpayer's cash has eased the pressure for a fire sale, while a shortage of cash-rich buyers could leave deals on ice.   'I'm not expecting him to sell large chunks except in extremis,' said Bruno Paulson at Bernstein Research.   'You can do quite a lot of overhauling without selling, such as shrinking the investment bank, cutting costs, refocusing. There's more to changing a business than selling assets.'   Key to Hester's plans will be the urgency he puts on repaying 5 billion pounds of government preference shares -- needed before he can restart paying dividends -- and how much damage more writedowns and rising bad debts inflict.   Hester said when he arrived in October there would be 'no sacred cows' in his review. He also said RBS will remain an international bank.   The former Credit Suisse   'Hester's reputation from Abbey was coming in and pretty determinedly selling things, even if pricing is tough for selling,' said a banker who asked not to be named.   He expected Hester to consider several asset sales in parallel given high risks of deals falling through at present, with the final decision dependent on how damaged the balance sheet is by the deteriorating economy.   The background noise is almost unprecedented.   In recent days a profit warning from Deutsche Bank   Hester has given himself until end-June to unveil his strategy, but a broad outline is expected when 2008 results are delivered on Feb. 26. His plan for Citizens is attracting the most scrutiny.   The Rhodes Island-based business is facing stiff headwinds and a sale would remove a hefty amount of risk-weighted assets from the balance sheet.   Interest could come from the likes of Bank of America   No-one is likely to pay a premium over book value, analysts believe, and Citizens' stable position in retail deposits and commercial banking could fit Hester's plans to return RBS to banking basic.   An auction of RBS Insurance has dragged on since April 2008 and Hester is expected to decide whether to keep or sell it by the full-year results. RBS now appears more likely to keep it as suitors have withdrawn and its defensive characteristics have grown more attractive.   Private equity companies Apollo Management and BC Partners have teamed up to revive the flagging auction, but a sale appears unlikely to fetch the 5 billion pounds or more RBS had wanted.   Paulson said both Citizens and insurance provide decent enough returns for Hester to want to keep them if he fails to attract good offers, which appears unlikely.   'If things get distressed enough he could have to sell it (insurance), but we're not there yet,' Paulson said, noting buyers of U.S. bank assets 'are looking to buy them for virtually nothing' in the current environment.   RBS's capital cushion is comfortable after the injection from taxpayers, but the concern is it will erode quickly due to fourth-quarter writedowns and corporate bad debts.   The government -- now a 58 percent shareholder -- may also urge undue emphasis on helping domestic credit flow.   What is clear is that Hester will dramatically shrink the investment banking arm by deleveraging the business, removing risky trading activities and focusing on corporate banking.   (Editing by Andrew Macdonald) ($1=.6841 Pound) Keywords: RBS/ASSETS Keywords: RBS/ASSETS (steve.slater@reuters.com; +44 207 542 4367; Reuters Messaging: steve.slater.reuters.com@reuters.net)  Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 
