'RUDD Bank' is testimony to the Government's determination to appear decisive as it tries to figure out how to handle an economy quickly going pear-shaped.  But political looks can be particularly deceiving. There's no evidence the latest outburst of taxpayer generosity to the commercial property sector will achieve what the Government says it will. Contrary to the impression deliberately created by Canberra, the new commercial property fund will do virtually nothing to directly protect jobs in the construction industry.   That's why the banks were so alarmed by the Government's political spin, even if they like the financial result. 'Kevin Rudd is trying to sell a pig and calling it a cow,' one investment banker says.   In fact, opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull is right in saying any money lent by the new facility will be almost exclusively aimed at avoiding any more rapid declines in commercial property values through more forced sales of existing shopping centres, office blocks and factories.   Avoiding such declines and the flow on effects and disastrous effect on confidence may be a very good thing in itself in this climate. But protecting prices of commercial property assets certainly does not equate to providing jobs in an environment of rapidly rising unemployment.   It suggests, at best, an indirect and long-term correlation with jobs. A precipitate fall in commercial property prices would further damage banks' balance sheets. That would presumably make the banks even more reluctant to lend to the real generators of Australian jobs -- small and medium businesses.   The Government's willingness to back the banks on commercial property certainly doesn't guarantee that banks will suddenly become more enthusiastic about lending to anyone at all, as they face the prospect of increased bad debts and their own capital requirements.   That is a much larger, and so far insoluble, problem around the world. 'The banks are effectively saying, if you give us money and protect our balance sheets, we will promise to be nice,' says a banker. Perhaps, and there's nothing like falling property prices to destroy confidence as well as businesses.   But why just pick commercial property? Is that the best use of government money?   In fact, to the extent that the new bank facility keeps property prices artificially high, it might just delay the necessary adjustments in the sector.   It's another reason to beware of the law of unintended consequences, which is particularly dangerous in such an unpredictable economy.   The idea of a government-backed bank fund developed because of the fear that some foreign banks may not want to roll over existing loans and continue participating in banking syndicates.   There's no indication yet of that happening -- just the strong possibility that it could over this year and next, given the carnage in the global banking sector.   That makes the Government's attempt to act pre-emptively to have a structure in place look relatively sensible. If Australian banks aren't healthy, the economy cannot be other than sick. But the very fact that government money will be available may actually have the perverse consequence of making it easier and more appealing for foreign banks to pull out.   The foreign banks will be able to demand their money back -- to the full value of their loan -- with no fear of the business falling into administration, because there is an alternative pool of money available.   Why not take the money and run if the sentiment is that asset values are heading down globally?   The Aussie banks still argue that averting any such funding gap is for the common good in the sense that problems in maintaining credit in the commercial property market would harm the whole economy.   They have certainly convinced the Government of this.   NAB senior executive Ahmed Fahour told the Government on December 15 that the risk of a funding shortfall of some $20 billion or so this financial year would pose 'a very real threat to the commercial property market and the broader economy'. 'If this funding shortfall is not urgently addressed, many property companies will be forced to deleverage by raising equity or selling assets,' he wrote. 'Increased sales will result in a glut of real estate assets appearing on the market, causing prices to fall further and putting further strain on debt covenants as loan to value ratios rise. A number of vulture funds are already being formed with capital to take advantage of next year's anticipated firestorm.' That's all true enough, and this sort of talk galvanised the Government into action.   The solution, however, didn't appear quite so clear-cut to the man the Government had brought in to provide advice -- former Commonwealth Bank chief executive, now Future Fund head, David Murray.   He advised the Government on January 15 there was no immediate case for intervention in the commercial property sector although he recommended working with the banks to amend their proposal.   He said this week the structure needed to be carefully thought through, so costs were not borne only by the commonwealth.   That is going to make the next several weeks of negotiations with the banks most interesting.   Murray's January 15 advice actually didn't favour injecting government capital into the fund -- although Cabinet promptly decided to put in $2 billion, with the four banks even to contributing $500 million each.   Beyond that, there's the issue of a further $26 billion that can be made available by the commonwealth issuing bonds.   Murray says the contingent liabilities from further guarantees should be weighed against the overall priorities of the Government in what is going to be a very difficult year.   The Government said on Saturday that its new fund would share in the profits, but it didn't talk about the far more likely option of losses.   According to Murray, the Government needed to ensure the Treasury had enough independent skills and resources to manage the loans and the operation of the new fund.   That's a polite way of saying Treasury needed to ensure its officials are not snowed by the banks, which would have equal representation.   Murray says separate approval is needed by ministers of the underwriting standards, expected losses and the final structure of the new fund before it started in March.   All that and more, will be promised, of course. Seeing is believing.
