Bank of China is finding the threads of its Western partnerships fast unraveling. Following in the footsteps of UBS  Last week, Bank of America Royal Bank of Scotland   Bank of China has been experiencing a mini-exodus of large investors. Swiss bank UBS   Bank of China had hoped to extract technological and risk management knowhow from its Western partners, but the global financial meltdown and the expiration of lockup periods has put an abrupt end to its biggest strategic partnerships.   It is hard to say how much transfer of knowledge took place from UBS and RBS, said Kim Eng Securities analyst Ivan Li in Hong Kong. Bank of China gained experience from operating private banking joint ventures with Royal Bank of Scotland, but improvement in risk management is difficult to measure, and substantial progress in intermediary banking services was unlikely in the short-term, he said.  For Western management expertise, Bank of China is left with French bank LCF Rothschild, which it acquired a 20% stake in last year.   Of course, the financial meltdown has greatly reduced the attractiveness of emulating Western banks, particularly their risk control systems, which were seen as models for Chinese banks three years ago. The U.K. government took majority control of Royal Bank of Scotland last year with a $30 billion lifeline, after the bank suffered over $10 billion in write-downs (See ''). The Bank of China stake proved less lucrative for RBS than the China Construction Bank partnership for Bank of America. Bank of China's share price has been underperforming its peers for years, said a Shanghai-based analyst who asked to remain unidentified due to company policy.   Bank of China has been punished for taking on more risk in the West than its peers. With greater U.S. subprime exposure than its rivals, it took $3.7 billion in write-downs on U.S. mortgage-backed securities in 2008 (See ''). Investors have been concerned about foreign-exchange losses for its U.S. operations, which are larger than its peers, due to the yuan's appreciation, the Shanghai-based analyst said. Bank of China shares lost nearly half of their value last year.  Are there any more Western banks that could be selling off Chinese stakes? There is speculation that HSBC   In Hong Kong trading, Bank of China shares were up 7 Hong Kong cents (1 cent), or 3.8%, to 1.92 Hong Kong dollars (25 cents). The broader Hang Seng index was up 194.99 points, or 1.4%, to 13,863.04.
