LISTED investment company Djerriwarrh made the most of volatile equity markets to post a 55 per cent increase in operating profit for the first half.  This was boosted by a near-threefold improvement in options revenue.  The company yesterday reported a net profit of $29.7 million for the six months ended December 31, down 47 per cent from the previous first half.   However, net operating profit was up 55 per cent from $23.9 million to $37.0 million, boosted by a jump in options revenue from $7.6 million to $20.9 million.   Djerriwarrh invests in large-capitalisation stocks that also have liquid options markets, and gains additional income by selling call options over the stocks it holds.   Managing director Ross Barker said that while the company had been able to sell larger numbers of options over its shares, few of the derivatives had been exercised as the market had fallen so sharply. 'There's been basically no exercising of options in the first half,' he said. Risk aversion did not appear to have crimped demand for options, he said, but Djerriwarrh was watching for any return to smoother conditions in the equity market so that it could adjust its options trading strategy. 'While volatility remains high you can sell options that are significantly out of the money, but when volatility drops it's a lot harder to do that, so we have to watch that we're not selling options over stock and then have those exercised at very low prices,' he said. The bottom-line figure included a $15.1 million loss on the sale of securities from the investment portfolio, compared with a $29 million gain on share sales in the previous first half.   Djerriwarrh sold out of ConnectEast, CFS Retail Property, James Hardie Industries, Macquarie Airports, Suncorp Metway and Westfield Group during the first half. 'We felt that there were better opportunities elsewhere,' said Mr Barker. In addition, takeovers led the company to sell its shares in Queensland Gas and St George Bank.   New investments were mainly via capital raisings from the Commonwealth Bank, Incitec Pivot, National Australia Bank, QBE Insurance and Westpac.   In a cautious move, the company reduced its trading portfolio -- the pool of funds earmarked for short-term buying and selling -- from $29 million to $3.6 million during the reporting period. 'In a falling market you don't want to have a big trading portfolio because you have to start writing the markdowns through the profit and loss statement,' Mr Barker said. The value of the investment portfolio fell by 23 per cent to $701 million during the first half, compared with a 27 per cent decline in its benchmark indices.   Djerriwarrh is one of a stable of listed investment vehicles set up by broking house JBWere but run as stand-alone businesses.   Stablemate Mirrabooka last week reported a 23 per cent fall in the value of its portfolio over the first half of the financial year, outperforming a 37 per cent fall in the small and mid-cap sectors where it invests.
