Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to todays Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Release Conference Call. (Operator Instructions). This time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. John Elicker, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead Mr. Elicker.  John Elicker  Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us to review fourth quarter full year results as well as discuss our 09 guidance. I know there is a lot going on in the markets today, so thanks for taking the time.  With me this morning are Jim Cornelius our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Jean-Marc Huet our Chief Financial Officer. Jim and Jean-Marc will have prepared remarks and then also joining us for the question-and-answer period are Lamberto Andreotti our Chief Operating Officer and Elliott Sigal our Chief Scientific Officer. Before I turn the call over to Jim let me just make a few quick legal comments.  During the call we will make statements about the companys future plans and prospects including statements about our financial position, business strategy, research pipeline concerning product development and product potential that constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor Provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors including those discussed in the companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, periodic reports on 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. These documents are available from the SEC and Bristol-Myers Squibb website or from Bristol-Myers Squibb Investor Relations.  In addition any forward-looking statements represent our estimates only as of today and should not be relied upon as representing our estimates as of any subsequent date.  While we may elect to update forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so even if our estimates change. Jim?  James Cornelius  Thanks John, good morning everyone and thank you also for joining us. Earlier today we announced very strong results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2008. We also shared an earnings per share guidance range for 2009, which will be wider than usual, with major external uncertainties potentially affecting our results. However, our outlook continues to be positive and is tracking our long-range plan.  I am particularly proud of the hard work we have done over the past year to execute our BioPharma strategy. Our results in the quarter and in the year show clearly that our strategy is working in the short term. We are delivering on our promises, reaching our financial goals, advancing our string of pearls strategy at a rapid rate and expanding our productivity initiatives globally. We are executing against our plans with speed and with rigor in all areas. As a result our corporate transformation to a BioPharma leader has been relatively quick and decisive.  Our financials underscore another strong quarter with improving profit margins leading to very solid operating performance capping off an excellent year. In the quarter we had diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.61 on a GAAP basis and $0.46 on a non-GAAP basis. For the year we had diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.59 on a GAAP basis and $1.74 earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis.  Compared to the fourth quarter of last year company net sales were up 4% in the quarter or 8% excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange rates. In the quarter, our important medicines such as Plavix, Abilify, Sustiva, and Baraclude continue to achieve significant sales growth around the world.  During 2008 we continued to fund our rich pipeline at all stages. We submitted Onglyza for diabetes both in the US and Europe. We presented encouraging Phase II data for dapagliflozin, which represents a new mechanism for diabetes, as well as promising Phase II data for Apixaban in acute coronary syndrome. We also shared promising early clinical data on both our gamma-secretase inhibitor for Alzheimers disease and our NS5A compound for hepatitis C. Just last week we received approval for SPRYCEL in Japan.  In the coming year, this year, we budgeted monies for further advancement of our portfolio and pipeline. We are preparing for an FDA decision on Onglyza. We are poised to submit our novel biologic [belatasup] for the prevention of rejection in kidney transplant in both the US and Europe this year. In addition we are looking forward to presenting the first Phase III data on dapagliflozin as well as additional Phase III data for Apixaban and [belatasup] at major medical meetings scheduled for this year.  Our string of pearls strategy is building on the opportunities we have developed internally. We are identifying acquisitions and alliances that can amplify and advance our work and key therapeutic areas, particularly those with high unmet medical need such as Alzheimers disease, hepatitis C, solid tumors, cardiology and hematologic malignancies. For us it is a dramatically different approach to business development and is helping us in our goal to create a strong Phase III pipeline in the 2010, 2011 timeframe.  Since we started with our acquisition of Adnexisin the fall of 2007 we have had a total of six new pearls. In recent months we added Exelixis in two novel cancer programs and with ZymoGenetics for a novel early stage interferon in the development for the treatment of hepatitis C.  Overall we put our cash to good use with this strategy and we continue to actively seek and evaluate opportunities while we ended the year with $8 billion of cash and equivalents still in the bank.  Again this quarter we managed expenses well in keeping with our promise to become more productive. We have made solid strides resetting our cost base since December of 2007 when we first announced that we would achieve $1.5 billion in cost improvements over three years through our productivity transformation initiative. Based on that success, last July we announced an expansion of the initiative to achieve an additional $1 billion in cost improvements by the end of 2011.  Our productivity goals touch all areas of the company and have become part of the Bristol-Myers Squibb culture. With manufacturing, for example, we continue to focus on our network to reach a reduction of more than 50% by 2011 and that is down from 27 plants in 2006. With these changes and others underway we are becoming the mid-size company that is leaner, more agile, and better able to execute our strategy and adapt quickly to the challenges and opportunities in the external environment.  Based on our strong strategic execution in 2008, I am very confident that we are well positioned for success in 2009.  We are providing guidance that our earnings per share in the range of $1.58 to $1.73 for 2009 measured on a GAAP basis and in the range of $1.85 to $2.00 per share on a non-GAAP basis. We also continue to project that non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations will grow at a minimum 15% compounded annual growth rate, that is from the 2007 base, through 2010 and that is without rebasing for ConvaTec. I believe that is one of the best growth rates in the industry.  I am pleased with the overall financial health of the company, especially at a time when so many companies across America are struggling. Our monetization on non-Pharma assets and the reallocation of resources has put us in a great position to execute against our business development strategy.  In summary, we are prepared for another successful year for the company. Our management team is confident that we are in a much better position now, compared to a year ago, to adapt quickly and face the global challenges in 2009 and the coming years. In doing so we will continue to deliver on the commitments we have made both to our shareholders and our patients.  Thanks again for listening today on a busy day. I will now turn the call over to Jean-Marc for some color on the details in the financials.  Jean-Marc Huet  Thank you very much Jim. I will first review the Q4 results and the 2009 guidance before turning to questions. Let me start with revenues.  Our total Q4 sales form continuing operations were up 4%, or at a very healthy 8% excluding foreign exchange. Sales for the quarter included a -4% due to foreign exchange, but a +5% from price and 3% from the increase in volumes. When it comes to full 2008 our sales were up 13% or a good double-digit growth of 11% excluding foreign exchange.  Q4 Pharma sales were up 4% or 8% excluding foreign exchange. This was broad-based growth that we was across the whole portfolio driven by Plavix, Abilify, our virology business, as well as our newer products.  Let me start with our CV met business. Our US Plavix sales were up 11% for the quarter. This is true sales growth as there is no impact from Apotex. In particular we are seeing very good growth in new patient starts in PAD.  Turning to neuroscience, Abilify was up 31% and 36% in the US. We witnessed a 31% growth in US prescription trends which is approximately 5x the antipsychotic market growth. This reflects our execution against the opportunities in bipolar and the new major depressive disorder indication which has been supported by a strong DTC campaign in the second half of last year.  Growth in Europe was supported by the bipolar indication which was launched in mid-2008.  Now I will turn to virology. Reyataz decreased 1% globally, although trends in both the US and Europe remain strong. US prescription trends grew at +14% in Q4 although US sales were only 4% due to some inventory work down in Q4 2008.  Our International business is also strong, but was somewhat negatively impacted due to foreign exchange.  Sustiva franchise sales were up 15% globally behind the strong performance of Atripla. Baraclude sales wer...
