First Commonwealth Financial Corporation logo. (PRNewsFoto/FIRST COMMONWEALTH FINANCIAL)  INDIANA, PA UNITED STATES  INDIANA, Pa., Jan. 8 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- First Commonwealth Financial Corporation (NYSE:  FCF) announced today that it will host a conference call on Thursday, January 22, 2009 at 2:00 p.m. local time to discuss financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The call will be hosted by John J. Dolan, President and Chief Executive Officer. He will be joined by Edward J. Lipkus, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and T. Michael Price, President of First Commonwealth Bank. First Commonwealth will issue a press release reporting its results before the markets open on January 22, 2009.  (Logo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20030416/FIRSTLOGO )  Conference Call Information: What: First Commonwealth Financial Corporation Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference Call When: 2:00 p.m. local time, Thursday, January 22, 2009 Where: First Commonwealth's Investor Relations webpage http://www.fcbanking.com How: Live over the Internet  To listen to the conference call, go to First Commonwealth's web page at the address listed above, click on 'Investor Relations' and then on the 'Webcast' link and follow the instructions. After the live presentation, the webcast will be archived on this website for 30 days. There is no charge to access this event.  To Ask Questions:  Participants who have questions can access our web page at the address listed above, click on the 'Contact Us' link and e-mail their questions to us. E-mail questions will be accepted beginning at 10:00 a.m. local time on Thursday, January 22, 2009, until the conclusion of the presentation.  Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings Release:  The First Commonwealth Financial Corporation Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings press release can be accessed after 9:00 a.m. local time on Thursday, January 22, 2009 at http://www.fcbanking.com. Click on 'Investor Relations' and then on 'News.'  About First Commonwealth Financial Corporation  First Commonwealth Financial Corporation is a $6.2 billion bank holding company headquartered in Indiana, Pennsylvania. It operates 114 retail branch offices in 15 counties in western and central Pennsylvania through First Commonwealth Bank, a Pennsylvania chartered bank and trust company. Financial services and insurance products are also provided through First Commonwealth Insurance Agency and First Commonwealth Financial Advisors, Inc.  
