Local heavyweights Qantas Airways Ltd, Telstra Corp and National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) have declared exposures to Indian IT giant Satyam Computer Services, which was hit by a major accounting scandal.   The corporate giants were caught in the wake India's biggest corporate scandal, after company chairman, Ramalinga Raju, resigned on Wednesday saying that about $1.44 billion, or 94 per cent of the cash and bank balances on the company's books at end-September, did not exist. The company's shares plunged nearly 80 per cent.   Qantas said on Thursday that it had five years remaining on a seven-year contract under which Satyam provides IT application maintenance and support for the company. 'At this stage Qantas assesses any risks to business as manageable,' it said. Telstra, which is currently trimming its IT suppliers from two to four, told Australian  Satyam was also the main beneficiary as NAB shifted IT functions offshore, and a bank spokesperson told the paper contractual obligations had still been met so far. As well, Satyam employs 1,700 people in offices in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, and the scandal has put hundreds of local jobs at risk, according to The Age  The scandal, which some analysts dubbed 'India's Enron' after the collapsed US energy firm, has cast a cloud over foreign investment in Asia's third-largest economy and over its once-booming outsourcing sector.  It may also increase investors' nervousness about weak corporate governance and oversight in emerging markets, which are reeling from the global financial crisis.  Interim chief executive Ram Mynampati said on Thursday that Satyam, India's fourth-largest software company, had contacted its top 100 customers, who account for almost 80 per cent of revenue, and had received expressions of support. 'Our only aim at this time is to ensure that the business continues,' Mr Mynampati said at a media conference on Thursday.  Mr Mynampati said the liquidity situation was 'not very encouraging now', but added Satyam had healthy receivables and would be able to deal with obligations this month.  There is little chance of Satyam being bought by another company given the scandal and losses from potential law suits, ABN Amro analysts said in a report, calling its cash position 'precarious'. A team from the Securities and Exchange Board of India arrived at the company's headquarters in Hyderabad in southern India on Thursday to search for clues on how the fraud could have been hidden for so long.  Satyam was assessing Mr Raju's revelations of overstated revenues and fictitious assets, and many actions against him were possible, Mr Mynampati said, but the company had not yet lodged a complaint with authorities. 'The government will take all necessary action to ensure these types of scandals do not take place again. Whatever steps could be taken will be taken,' Corporate Affairs Minister Prem Chand Gupta told Reuters late on Wednesday.  Satyam employees shuffled into its Hyderabad office as usual, refusing to speak to reporters outside the gates.  The chief financial officer had not reported to work, citing personal reasons, but was assisting with required information, Mr Mynampati said. He added the CFO had submitted his resignation on Thursday, but it had not yet been accepted by the board, which will meet on Jan. 10.  The government has asked the registrar of companies in Hyderabad to file a report, while the stock market regulator has ordered a probe into trading in the company's shares.  Stocks in India did not trade on Thursday due to a holiday. Bombay's benchmark stock index tumbled more than seven per cent on Wednesday and the Indian rupee fell after the Satyam bombshell, which some analysts dubbed 'India's Enron' after the collapsed US energy firm.  The New York Stock Exchange halted trading in Satyam's shares indefinitely.  Some investors in Satyam's American Depository Receipts have already filed class action suits against the firm, lawyers said.  Riding a tiger
