 Market watch top headlines Australian reports Aust markets:  :  :  World reports World commodities:  World markets:   RFG, UGL, COU, MOC, CFX, ALK, NEW, ADI, CBA, CAS, PNA, ILU,   AAP 2009-01-19   Listed investment company Djerriwarrh Investments Ltd has posted a 47.1 per cent half year profit plunge to $29.7 million on $15.1 million in losses incurred from offloading securities.  Djerriwarrh's interim net profit for the six months to December 31, fell from $56.218 million during the previous corresponding half, despite a 22 per cent rise in revenue to $29.271 million.  But a $15.119 million loss on the sale of securities during the first half was in stark contrast to a $29.5 million profit on securities sales during the previous corresponding half.  The investment manager sold its entire holdings in ConnectEast, CFS Retail Property, James Hardie Industries, Macquarie Airports, Suncorp Metway and Westfield Group during the first half.  Other major sales also occurred due to takeovers including Westpac's takeover of St George Bank and British Gas' takeover of Queensland Gas.  The sales allowed Djerriwarrh to outperform the general market, with its portfolio performance dropping by 23 per cent over the December half year compared to a 27 per cent plunge for the general market, the company said in a statement.  The company also participated in capital raisings by Commonwealth Bank, Incitec Pivot, National Australia Bank, QBE Insurance and Westpac.  Earnings per share were dragged down from 26.9 cents for its interim 2008 result to 14.2 cents for its interim 2009 result.  Djerriwarrh's interim dividend has been held at 10 cents per share, fully franked, and payable on February 20 to shareholders registered by February 6.  Going forward, the Australian equities specialist said it will continue to operate with relatively high levels of call option coverage whilst volatility remains high.  Djerriwarrh acknowledges company dividends are likely to come under pressure as the economy moves through a period of 'subdued activity' and says it will seek investment opportunities in companies with strong business franchises offering high fully franked dividend yields.  At 1235 AEDT Djerriwarrh's shares were trading up five cents, or 1.4 per cent, at $3.63.
