THE US$173bil government rescue of American International Group Inc (AIG) is stoking resentment among investors who see it as a backdoor taxpayer bailout of Goldman Sachs Group Inc and other banks.  Six months after the US government stepped in to save an insurance giant overwhelmed by derivative losses, AIG continues to bleed red ink. Its stock and bond holders have been crushed, but one group has suffered almost no damage: banks that bought credit protection from AIG Financial Products.  Regulatory filings show that since the Federal Reserve announced its rescue of AIG on Sept 15, about US$50bil of government money has passed through the company to banks.  Treasury is providing a massive wealth transfer from taxpayers to Goldman Sachs and other parties and its something that absolutely should be investigated, said Eric Hovde, chief executive of Hovde Capital Advisors.  A security guard walks out of the AIG Building in Tokyo  Reuters  Once the worlds largest and most powerful insurance company, AIG for more than a decade aggressively insured credit and mortgage exposure for banks around the world. At its peak, AIG was backstopping a US$2 trillion derivatives trading business.  That business proved its undoing when credit markets broke down in 2007, leaving AIG on the hook for huge losses. At the year-end, it had US$302bil of outstanding credit default swaps, which are contracts that insure against debt default.  Filings show that, in the final months of 2008, as it unwound its money-losing credit derivative portfolio, AIG purchased from banks US$46.1bil of assets underlying swaps. With government financing, it paid US$20.1bil cash and surrendered US$25.9bil of collateral  a 99.8% recovery rate.  On the September weekend that investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc collapsed, the US Treasury and Federal Reserve arranged an unprecedented insurance company bailout: US$85bil in loans for AIG in exchange for an 80% stake in the company.  The Treasury and the Fed worried that an AIG collapse could further drag down world financial markets. As markets continued to deteriorate and AIGs derivative losses mounted, Uncle Sam extended ever-more-lenient rescue packages. The bailout has stirred resentment not just in the US Congress, but on Wall Street, where investors speculate that Goldman and its connections helped it get a better deal.  The whole point of the bailout is to save Goldman Sachs, said Christopher Whalen, head of financial advisory services for Institutional Risk Analytics. The whole thing is so rancid and so hideous.  Goldman CFO David Viniar in September and in December told investors the firm had no material losses from AIG. The bank says its AIG exposure was either collateralized or hedged.  Last week, AIG chief executive Edward Liddy told investors the vast majority of taxpayer funds passed through AIG to other financial institutions as it unwound transactions.  During a hearing in Washington last week, legislators demanded the Federal Reserve identify the financial firms that received money from AIG. Fed vice-chairman Donald Kohn refused.  The Wall Street Journal, citing unnamed sources, reported on Saturday that more than US$50bil of payments went to counterparty banks between September and December. Goldman and Deutsche Bank AG were the largest trading parties, each receiving about US$6bil, the newspaper said.  Keeping sick patients such as Citigroup Inc and AIG on life support, investors say, only increases the risks for taxpayers.  Reuters  
