DAYTONA BEACH, FL and TAMPA, FL -- (Marketwire) -- 02/27/09 -- J. Powell Brown, President of Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. (NYSE: BRO), will speak at the 34th Annual Conference of The Association of Insurance and Financial Analysts at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort and Spa at Gainey Ranch in Scottsdale, Arizona on Monday, March 2, 2009. Mr. Brown is scheduled to present at 1:50 p.m. ET. Mr. Brown's presentation can be heard live by logging onto the Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. website at www.bbinsurance.com then clicking on Investor Relations and then Calendar of Events. Playback of the presentation will be available at the same address for ten days after the event. Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products and services, as well as risk management, third party administration, managed health care, and Medicare set-aside services and programs. Providing service to business, public entity, individual, trade and professional association clients nationwide, the Company is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the United States' seventh largest independent insurance intermediary. The Company's Web address is www.bbinsurance.com. Comments made during this presentation and any following question and answer session may contain certain statements relating to future results which are forward-looking statements, including those relating to continuing our revenue, earnings and operating growth, as well as identifying and consummating attractive acquisition opportunities. These statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the Company's current belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the Company's control. It is possible that the Company's actual results, financial condition and achievements may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results, financial condition and achievements contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results and condition, as well as its other achievements, are contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some factors include: general economic conditions around the country; downward commercial property and casualty premium pressures; the effects of recent legislative and regulatory changes in Florida pertaining to the insurance industry; the competitive environment; the integration of the Company's operations with those of businesses or assets the Company has acquired or may acquire in the future and the failure to realize the expected benefits of such integration; the potential occurrence of a disaster that affects certain areas of the States of California, Florida, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and/or Washington, where significant portions of the Company's business are concentrated; the actual costs of resolution of contingent liabilities; those factors relevant to Brown &amp; Brown's consummation and integration of announced acquisitions, including any matters analyzed in the due diligence process, material adverse changes in the customers of the companies whose operations are acquired, and material adverse changes in the business and financial condition of either or both companies and their respective customers; and the cost and impact on the Company of previously disclosed regulatory inquiries regarding industry and Company practices with respect to compensation received from insurance carriers. All forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company hereafter becomes aware. Contact: Cory T. Walker Chief Financial Officer (386) 239-7250
