AIG'S general insurance unit in Singapore, American Home Assurance Company, moved yesterday to reassure customers that it is sound, despite the woes of its US parent.  In the midst of the credit crunch and vicious bear market, AHA has boosted its capital adequacy ratio (CAR) from 150 per cent to about 205 per cent - well above the minimum 120 per cent required by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  AHA Singapore president Kevin Goulding said: 'We raised the CAR to give the market more comfort on our solvency and ability to pay claims.' Last year AHA paid more than $200 million in claims and handled 122,000 new claim cases. The CAR ratio improved as the group liquidated some investments and now holds more cash on its balance sheet to the tune of about $200 million. AHA's total assets at end-December 2008 were $656 million. 'It is quite disappointing for most of us to see a company that was so disciplined have a small entity that has devastated us financially,' Mr Goulding said. AIG has been battered by its financial products unit which extended guarantees on more than US$500 billion of assets including US$61 billion of securities tied to sub-prime mortgages.  The US government has so far extended US$180 billion to bail out AIG, including US$30 billion announced this week. The latest injection has averted a sharp downgrade of AIG's credit rating due to its record quarterly loss. AIG reported a US$61.7 billion fourth-quarter 2008 loss. For the year it lost US$99.3 billion, against a profit of US$6.2 billion for 2007.  AIG will form a general insurance holding company, AIU Holdings, to own its commercial insurance group, foreign general unit and property and casualty operations. This is to pave the way for the potential sale of a minority stake in the business, which may include a public offering of shares.  The Financial Times reported that the sale of AIG's life insurance assets may be delayed or scrapped in the aftermath of the latest US$30 billion bailout. As part of the revised terms, AIG is to hand to the US government a large stake in pan-Asian insurer AIA, said FT.  On Singapore, Mr Goulding said: '2009 will be a challenging year. The way the Q1 numbers look, we will be within one to two percentage points of what we budgeted. Our lines of business are impacted primarily due to the economy.' Retention rates remain good, he said. 'We would not have achieved the growth margins we have if we suffered too much on retention. We did lose some business. We did lose a few large commercial clients. We're taking steps to try to win them back for next-year renewals.' One of the company's priorities is to retain staff. It will triple its budget to develop staff through internal and external programmes.
