The U.S. government was last night finalizing the terms of a rescue operation to prevent an outright collapse of the stricken insurer after two previous attempts failed to stabilize the teetering giant.  The plan that was put to the AIG board on Sunday will see the government gain an option to take control of the insurer's prized Asian assets, but keep alive an effort to auction off the units to healthier rivals. 'The auction process is not being called off,' said a person close to the negotiations.  Manulife has remained engaged in the auction despite being severely weakened by a precipitous fall in its market value to below $20-billion.  Shares in Canada's largest insurer are 67% lower than a year ago, amid a tumble in the value of investments it made to back guarantees to customers.  The company may be forced to raise more capital to shore up its reserves if markets deteriorate dramatically, and it is pursuing a risky strategy by attempting to use a bold acquisition as a way to rally investor support and raise cash.  Manulife demonstrated its ability to raise capital last week with a $450-million issue of preferred shares that was oversubscribed.  The insurer also recently filed paperwork with regulators that would allow it to try to raise $10-billion on short notice in a move it said would help in any 'strategic acquisition.' Essentially, the idea behind the gambit is to grab hold of a prized foreign asset and use it as leverage to raise enough money from investors to pay for the deal and cover its capital needs for the future, analysts say.  But Manulife has faced a major obstacle in bidding for AIG assets underwritten by the U.S. Treasury, because Canadian law prohibits handing shares over to a foreign government.  In crafting the new bailout of AIG that will be unveiled today, the Treasury has taken steps to avoid worsening these regulatory obstacles and to underscore its commitment to an ultimate sale of the assets.  The restructuring will see the U.S. government given an option to take control of American International Assurance, AIG's Asian operations, as well as American Life Insurance Company, its international life insurance business.  This will give AIG the freedom of walking away if private-sector bids are too low, avoiding a fire sale.  But the terms have been structured to keep the auction alive while extracting the best possible price for the U.S. government, which effectively controls 80% of AIG and is expected to commit another US$30-billion of capital as early as today.  ecallan@nationalpost.com
