State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo Tuesday announced a $500,000 settlement with Guardian Life Insurance as part of a continuing investigation into health insurers that allegedly failed to adequately reimburse patients by as much as 28 percent when they used out-of-network physicians.  Most of Guardian's 20,000 health-insurance clients in the state live on Long Island, in  or in Westchester, officials said.  Manhattan-based Guardian was the eighth large national health insurer in the past year to settle with Cuomo. The agreements reform how patients nationwide are reimbursed by insurance plans when they go to an out-of-network physician, Cuomo said. None of the insurers were charged with wrongdoing. 'Today's agreement brings us within striking distance of complete industry reform,' Cuomo said in a statement.  The case centers around a subsidiary of Minnesota-based insurer UnitedHealth Group that most health insurance companies used to set artificially low prices for out-of-network reimbursements, Cuomo said.  The subsidiary, Ingenix, used a database that 'intentionally skewed usual and customary (reimbursement) rates downward through faulty data collection, poor pooling procedures, and the lack of audits,' Cuomo said. As a result, patients who got out-of-network medical services were reimbursed between 10 percent to 28 percent less than they were entitled to, Cuomo said.  Because it would be difficult to track and calculate the amount owed to each patient, health advocates, the insurers and Cuomo agreed that the health insurers would pay to set up a nonprofit that would provide an independent database to calculate future reimbursement, officials said.  As part of its settlement, Guardian agreed to pay $500,000 toward the nonprofit.  Previously, Cuomo has gotten $90 million in settlements with other health insurers for the database company. UnitedHealth, the country's second-largest insurer, has agreed to pay $50 million. Aetna, the third-largest, $20 million; and WellPoint, the largest, and Cigna, $10 million each. UnitedHealth also agreed to close Ingenix.  A spokesman for Guardian could not be reached for comment. However, in statement with Cuomo, company senior vice president Richard Jones said: 'Guardian is pleased to cooperate with the attorney general and to participate in the development of a not-for-profit independent . . . that does not have the conflicts of interest that have been identified.' Chuck Bell, programs director for the advocacy group Consumers Union, said in the same statement that the settlements have 'created an excellent new framework for a consumer-friendly solution.'
