WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Regulators failed to spot how much risk insurer AIG was piling on, and by the time they understood, they had no choice but to pour in tens of billions of taxpayer dollars, officials said Thursday. The fact that a 'multitude of regulators' of American International Group (AIG) missed the warning signs highlights the need for regulatory reform, Scott Polakoff, acting director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, told the Senate Banking Committee. 'Where OTS fell short, as did others, was in the failure to recognize in time the extent of the liquidity risk to AIG' of widely criticized risky deals involving complex financial derivatives.  Sen. Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican, called the company 'the greatest corporate failure in American history.' Under a revised bailout deal announced Monday, the amount of funds committed to help AIG increased to about $180 billion, although the insurer has not tapped it all and plans to pay back roughly $38 billion soon.   The government effectively controls the insolvent company, with the Treasury Department holding an up to 79.9% stake. 'The question is, who is actually being rescued,' said committee chairman Sen. Chris Dodd, questioning Federal Reserve Vice Chairman David Kohn.  AIG was the top issuer of credit default swaps, which provided insurance for corporate bonds, and it has spent billions trying to wind these down. Kohn declined to say which companies had benefited from the winding down of AIG's financial relationships. 'We need AIG to be stable ... and I would be very concerned that if we started giving out the names of counterparties, people wouldn't want to do business with AIG,' Kohn said. Dodd urged him to reconsider the refusal to name other financial companies that had benefited from AIG's bailouts. 'Public confidence in what we're doing is at stake, and right now the public is deeply, deeply troubled by this,' Dodd said. '...We're going to have an awfully difficult time ... if we can't get answer to this.' AIG sold credit default swaps, insurance against declines in the value of securities  including subprime mortgages that began defaulting at an alarming rate when the housing market tumbled.  AIG's troubles forced the Fed to make decisions that were 'particularly difficult and discomforting because they involved addressing systemic problems created largely by the poor decision-making by the company itself,' Kohn said. 'Our judgment has been and continues to be that, in this time of severe market and economic stress, the failure of AIG would impose unnecessary and burdensome losses on many individuals, households and businesses, disrupt financial markets, and greatly increase fear and uncertainty about the viability of our financial institutions,' he said. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said earlier this week that the unit operated like an unregulated hedge fund, and he expressed anger that its risky behavior put taxpayers on the hook.  OTS's Polakoff detailed the agency's interaction with AIG going back to 1999, but despite that OTS still failed to understand that the insurer's finances could be devastated by the activities of the financial products division. 'No one predicted, including OTS, the amount of funds that would be required to meet collateral calls and cash demands on the credit default swap transactions,' he said. In retrospect, if regulators had recognized that risk, they could have told AIG to reduce its exposure, he said.  New York Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo, whose agency oversees AIG's insurance business but was not the primary regulator of the financial products arm, said that unit had written some $440 billion in credit default swaps and should have been subject to more and better regulation.  Polakoff said a key lesson learned from AIG was that the United States needed a systemic risk regulator that would have responsibility for monitoring companies that are so large or so interconnected that their failure would pose a risk to the country's financial stability.   The company provides life, property and other insurance offerings, with 30 million policyholders in the United States alone. It also provides asset-management services and airplane leases.
