Colorado municipalities received $360 million of the $85 billion emergency federal loan of taxpayer dollars to American International Group Inc. as part of the federal bailout of the insurance giant, AIG disclosed.  AIG said the loan allowed it to avoid severe financial disruptions by providing liquidity to financial institutions and municipalities at a time when it was facing a liquidity crisis brought on by severe valuation losses. In a disclosure released Sunday, AIG (NYSE: AIG) said it paid $360 million in the fourth quarter as part of $12.1 billion in payments to U.S. municipalities that had invested in guaranteed investment agreements.  AIG said that the deals, which typically invested bond proceeds for state governments, guaranteed a minimum rate of return.  Among states whose municipalities received money from AIG, Colorado ranked sixth. First was California, whose municipalities got $1.02 billion, followed by Virginia with $1.01 billion, Hawaii with $770 million, Ohio with $490 million and Georgia with $410 million.  AIG also said it used $22.4 billion of the bailout loan to make collateral payments to holders of its credit default swaps; $27.1 billion to buy securities underlying other credit default swaps; and $43.7 billion for payments to participants in its securities lending operations. The remainder of the $85 billion was used for debt repayment and capital support.  Goldman Sachs was the largest recipient of payments, receiving $12.9 billion. Merrill Lynch received $6.8 billion, and Bank of America received $5.2 billion. The disclosure did not list any Colorado-based banks. The Washington Business Journal contributed to this report.  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!
