 AmEx Profit Beats Estimates, Shares Jump    Laurie Kulikowski     04/23/09 - 05:38 PM EDT     American Express   (  AXP Quote  )  on late Thursday reported its first-quarter profit plunged by more than half compared to a year earlier, but soared past the consensus analyst expectation.    The credit card company said in a release issued after the markets closed that net income totaled $437 million in the first three months of the year vs. $991 million in the year-earlier period.    Net income attributable to common shareholders totaled $361 million vs. $985 million a year earlier. It accounts for dividends American Express paid to the U.S. Treasury on its preferred investment as well as a $72 million related gain and other ancillary adjustments in the quarter and prior year.    Earnings from continuing operations attributable to shareholders was 32 cents a share vs. 89 cents a share a year earlier.    Analysts had expected the company to make 12 cents a share.    Revenue fell 18% to $5.9 billion.    American Express took a $1.8 billion provision to offset the rising amount of   bad loans   the weakened consumer environment, it said.    "While we did see some recent improvement in early delinquency rates, overall credit indicators reflected rising unemployment levels and the broad-scale weakness in the economy," chairman and CEO Ken Chenault said in a statement.    The company expects write-offs to rise between 200 and 250 basis points in the second quarter and an additional 50 basis points in the third quarter, before leveling off in the fourth quarter.     "We continue to be very cautious about the economic outlook and plan to initiate additional reengineering efforts in the second quarter to help further reduce our operating costs," he said. "Our goal is to remain in a position to generate profits in excess of our dividend and be able to take competitive advantage of opportunities as the economy begins to rebound."    Chenault also said the company plans to repay the government's TARP investment "if permitted by our supervisors and if supported by the results of the stress assessment."    President   Barack Obama   is pushing for tougher consumer credit card protections. Obama met with leaders of the major credit card issuers including  Bank of America   (  BAC Quote  ) ,  Citigroup   (  C Quote  ) , American Express,  Wells Fargo   (  WFC Quote  ) ,  JPMorgan Chase   (  JPM Quote  ) ,  Capital One   (  COF Quote  )  as well as executives from  Visa   (  V Quote  )  and  MasterCard   (  MA Quote  )  at the White House on Thursday.    American Express shares closed up 7.9% on Thursday to $20.97. The stock was rising an additional 5.7% in after-hours trading.  
