Beside the fact I'm a broke nut, and mother dearest is gonna pitch in and come to rescue this time. Thanks goodness too....because there was no way i was coming up a lot of moo-laa.....in 30 days before I see the court order tacked on front door.  I've been a bit over whelmed lately and I keep saying sorry but you know it's getting old. You can't help what is happening when there's nothing to give $$....i had a sit down talk with step-grandmother and realized lord what was I thinking on being her neighbor....she drives me nutz....she puts the nut in the shell for&amp;nbsp; me....i think my mom lost it with her...how do you tell someone you have signs of alzheimer when they constantly forget where they were or going.....Anyway you know how I feel about her....Just one of those family members you just deal with. I can't decide if I should put the house up forsale by owner and see how that goes and see if some one takes up on it, or continue to fix it up and have Mr. K be my listor and go that road?? So my first thought is see where I go with a new mortgage of course at a level of $30-40k house....gotta cut the finances to nothing. The houses in that market level are scary. I took a peak literally just a peak and I tip-toed like a elephant seeing a mouse.....One house was okay but to just get in I wouldn't let Ava walk around in it.  I feel like my hands are up in there air, something gotta gives.... I had a thought today, should I not bank anymore with IndyMac going under and leaving people without there money, I can't afford for that to happen. I'm broke as is. I can't be broke and stranded.  I know IndyMac is not that big but imagine Bank of America going under.....they are every where.....no matter what state i've been in&amp;nbsp;I've seen a Bank of American even when I went over seas....i'd see them.....so I couldn't imagine if they went under. i think my parents would cry for sure and my step-grandmother...hey they might finally understand my level of brokeness for once...bad thought--bad thought.....someday that might be my version of the lottery winnings. Smirk!!! 
