 Travel Insurance is a kind of insurance in your travel that include the medical, expenses, while you are in your travel. All you have to do here is to get some tour insurance package. Many travel insurance offer different kind of packages. All packages has a promotion which is in can give you low rate. You can travel around the world with travel insurance in resonable prize. For suggestion you can choose travel insurance which has the coverage of travel package, included their your ticket, accomodation, meal, in case of accident your hospital fee and medicine will be covered. You can also choose what kind of travel you want. If you want to travel with a cruiseship and etc. It depend in your choose. Purchasing this kind of insurance, you must have this following question. Do I need travel insurance or what kind of travel insurance is right for me and for my family. Having this kind of insurance is easy to apply. All you have to do is choose a travel insurance that is fit for your and your family. Some of the travel insurance plan include the following AIG travel guard, the coverage of trip, for the cancellation of the trip and for the emergency medical expences and your transportation. They also have this coverage when you have lost or damage baggage. They also have services which for equipment if you are going to play golf, fishing gear if you want to have fishing, camping equipment if you are going to have camping and other activities. Some Customer ask this question: 1. Why does we nee to buy travel insurance? Answer: As a traveler you need to purchase a travel insurance because of the following reason: As a wise traveler you need this kind of insurance. Travel insurance offer services to the unforeseen problem. Example of problem emergency cancellation of flight, default of travel because of the financial default of traveler. You can also get benefit if you have an accident during the travel. 2. What will be happened if the traveler need to cancel his/her tour? Answer: As a practice if the traveler will canceled the trip they will not get the down payment that they give to the company. Because of the following reason the travel is already set from the ticket, accommodation, food and etchetera. Because of this situation the travel insurance will solve this kind of problem. If you have this kind of insurance when you get this package and you decided to cancel your trip the tour insurance is the one responsible for all your expenses it must be associated with valid reason. 3. How does this kind of insurance work in this kind of problem? As what I have said the tour insurance will be responsible for the reimburses for forfeited, all your account will be payback unto you as long as you have the valid reason why you canceled your trip for you vacation. 3. Does this kind of insurance travel covered terrorism? Most of the insurance company do not covered by terrorism but only the act of terrorism. 4. How does travel insurance cost? Most of the cost of travel insurance is depend to the services covered by the insurance you have chosen. 
