 Many a times I have wished that just when I am wandering around I bump into somebody whom at first sight I fall for. Somebody I like without knowing anything about him, without any prejudgements. I have met and been approached by lots of guys, something every girl goes through, but have never experienced an interesting chance encounter which stays in mind which I have only seen in movies. Probably that is why I wanted it to happen.Yesterday when I waiting at a bus stop to London from my university. I bumped into an unknown guy, from nowhere, and definitely not 'my type' of a guy. I saw him and wondered, what is it about him that I am even bothering to look at him. He is surely not 'my types'. To describe him, he was short in height, was sporting hair like a pop star (curly hair falling upto neck with a band to make them look a little tidier), a t-shirt and a pair of loose jeans. While 'my type' is just the opposite, tall guy, shiny hair, full shirt and smart trousers. All this description is exterior, as uptil now I have not talked to him and can only see the appearance. Even if he hardly fit the 'my type' bracket there was something about him which made me notice him.As the bus came, we all queued up to board it, he was just behind me in the queue. There was a huge rush since the bus was a bit late than scheduled which was later on explained as heavy traffic in the city. The guy behind me initiated the conversation with "Hey, you going to Victoria? Do you mind if I share a seat with you as you are in front of me and will get up the bus before me, as there seem to be a vague possibility of me getting any nice seat". I said, "I do not mind it, but then you are hardly behind me, I would not be of that great help I guess". I smiled thinking what a way to start a conversation. There were lots of 'dark skinned' people in front of us in the queue to which he made a remark "the whole of West Indies is going today" and then asked me "Are you from India?".I: "No, Pakistan."He: "Oh really, where from in Pakistan- Karachi or Lahore?"I: "No, Islamabad."He: "Oh cool! You know people say that Islamabad and Mumbai are the same."I: Yes probably, but I have never been to Mumbai.He: I have never been to Islamabad.I could not stop myself passing a little smile, thinking for the first time in my life I have managed to fool somebody like this. I felt victorious. He seemed to be believing me.I board the bus, I made a quick survey of the seats and to my satisfaction did not find any two adjacent seats vacant. I said "Sorry! you got to share your seat with somebody else." He went around the bus, came up with the proposal that at the back there are two seats empty. I declined saying "that will be too behind". He said "but will surely be inside the bus." I did not go and remained seated on the left seat of the row sharing it with another girl on my right. After a couple of minutes, he came back to sit on the right seat of the parrallel row saying "oh that is so near the toilet, no way!" I could not stop smiling. So now we were sitting next to each other with the passageway in between.And the wheels rolled over. As expected he started the conversation with what do I do and all. I did not expect though that he would be interested any more in me, specially after telling him that I am from Pakistan and hence presumably a Muslim. His racist remark on 'West Indies' made me think so. So when he still showed interest in talking, I thought no more fooling and told him about my course and about the dissertation that I am doing with the bank in London. He also works for a bank as a sales and marketing advisor. I was surprised and found myself making this stupid remark,I: "Oh really, Barclays! I thought you are a pop singer, could not imagine you will turn out to be a banker."He: "Is it? Well, I am a singer .... a bathroom singer, hehe... but what made you think so?"I: "Your hair stlye actually!"He: "Oh! You know I had very short hair, and then one decided to grow them, they turned out to be curly. People liked them and so on public demand I did not cut them after that."I: Looked at him with arched eyebrowsHe: But anyways, thanks a lot for the compliment...We continued talking, he gave me some tips of working in a bank and how to move up the ladder. He told me his story of how his career took shape. He talked interesting with lots of humor. He sounded knowledgeable. Asked me about the places I have visited and told me the places I must see.He: "Have you been to the Neasden temple?"I: "No. Is there a temple there?"He: "A very famous one. A nice place to be."I: "Oh wow! Good you told me that. I really enjoy going to such places."He: "Actually, I am going there tomorrow. Why don't you come along?"I: "Oh no, thanks! I will surely go there some other time."We continued talking. He told me about his religious beliefs and asked me mine. Then suddenly I declared that I need to get down the bus as my stop has come. I could see disbelief in his eyes. The shock of snatching away an ice cream from a kid. He could not think of what to say. All his humor and interesting talk left his company. He could not think as I did not give him any time to think. All he could say is "pleasure talking to you, take care!""chalte chalte, chalte chalte, yunhi koi mil gaya tha, sare raah, chalte chalte".
