I am having a total breakdown. I think I have taken all I can take. As I've been pacing my house, I've thrown a few things. I literally can do no more. I'm not leaving my house right now because I'm afraid of what I might do if anyone does anything. I am so incredibly angry that there is no way I can explain it. Let me tell you about my day. And maybe by typing, I will release a little anger. I gave my two week's notice this morning via email. Moments after sending it, I got a call from John Christner. They are trying to verify a period of unemployment. Which I'm having trouble doing. I can, but it's going to cost me money. Then I got a call from my boss. He is doing everything he can to talk me out of leaving. So, I finally got going for the day, and went to Bank of America to take care of my paycheck that I didn't get on time. Only to find out they will no longer cash his checks because of how many he has bounced. I then had to deal with getting cash, which required talking to his wife. She is crying, literally crying, about me leaving. She is also irritated and stretched thin dealing with everything she is dealing with. She deposited cash in my account so I could pay bills. I went to the bank, and pulled what was necassary to pay what I had to in cash. I then came home, and proceeded to pay bills online that I had to pay. My card got declined. Confused, I go to check my account balance. My bank account was empty. I called the bank. And this is where my really bad day went to hell. My ex owes child support from her second relationship. (the one before me) They garnished MY account for it. To the tune of $900!!!!! And all I'm getting with anyone I call is that, "I'm sorry, you can file a complaint and possibly get your money back in six months." I don't have six months. I don't have money for freaking food you morons. How the @$% am I supposed to survive? It's not even money I @$% owe!!!!! And then, while dealing with it, bill collectors start calling. The ones I had made arrangements to pay on Friday when I was supposed to have gotten paid. OK. Typing this has not helped. I'm going to post this stupid thing, and then maybe see if I can start blowing things up. Where the hell does the child support officer live? I think I'm going there. 
