Yesterday, I took Keon to the DMV to see if he could pass the drivers permit test. He scored a 78-percent, two less than he needed to get by the exam. The last question he missed was a simple case of language.The question was, "If you see a drunk driver, what should you do?"There were&amp;nbsp;multiple choice answers that included, " Call the NHP," and "Call 1-800-Drunk."Keon didn't understand what NHP meant and so he took his best quess, selecting the 800-number. To a kid who has a limited English vocabulary, that was the only one that made any sense to him.The answer is&amp;nbsp;call the NHP. And by the way, "NHP" stands for Nevada Highway Patrol. Now he knows.We also went to Bank of America in order for him to open a bank account. This took an hour and a half to accomplish.Our&amp;nbsp;customer service representitive was named Singh. His English was jus' a touch better than that of Keon and so that left me in the middle to try and explain to these two what the other was saying.By the time we finished, I was mentally worn out. It was Kyle who pointed out that the banks name is "Bank of America," and the first employee we encountered was not from America.&amp;nbsp; Then he had to touch on the fact that Keon's and Singh's English was "jus' good enough for them to miscommunicate."The idea of having a debit card to use instead of a check book left&amp;nbsp;Keon even more confused. He was sure that the card was credit card and it took me forever to make him understand that the debit card he was given was only good for the money he has in his account.I did this by explaining that if he became overdrawn the bank would want 35 dollars for each overdraft he committed. I'm jus' hoping he fully understands all of this.As for the credit card, initially Keon was disappointed in the fact that he'd have to have a social security number in order to get one as well as be 18-years-old. That changed however when I explained that paying for everything with cash was better and that credit card companies charged interest rates like 21-percent on the balance of a card.Keon doesn't want a credit card now. But that led to the desire to study for his U.S. Citizenship. "One test at a time," I told him.Gee-whiz... 
