The stock markets in Australia ended Monday's trading session in negative territory, led by resource stocks and banks. Taking cue from the US markets that closed sharply lower on Friday, the market opened weaker and continued to trade in negative territory for throughout the session, as hopes of a global economic recovery later in the year started to wane. The world's largest economy, the US, reported a sharp 6.2% contraction in GDP growth during the fourth quarter of 2008, the lowest since 1987, triggering a sell-off in the markets.  The All Ordinaries Index closed the trading session at 3203.80, down 2.8%, or 93.1 points, the lowest closing in six years, while the benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 Index shed 94.4 points or 2.82% to close at 3250.10.  Banking stocks led the decline in the market after Moody's downgraded ratings of major banks citing the negative impact of economic downturn on these stocks. Commonwealth Bank declined by 4.33%, while Westpac Banking Corp. shed 3.49%. ANZ Bank declined the least by 1.58% over the previous close.  Lower commodity prices in the global market dragged resource stocks to lower levels. BHP Billiton, the world's largest mining company, shed 3.05% while rival company Rio Tinto shed more than 6%. Alumina declined 1.24%.  Oil related stocks such as Woodside Petroleum, Santos Ltd and Oil Search traded lower during the session.   Bullion prices in the local market increased during the trading session, helping gold mining stocks such as Newcrest Mining, Lihir Gold and Newmont Mining advance strongly. The spot price of gold in the local market inched up to US$952.70 per ounce from the previous close of US$940.95 an ounce on Friday.  Mixed trading was witnessed in the retail as well as media spaces. Major retailers such as David Jones, Woolworth and Wesfarmers gained marginally while Harvey Norman bucked the trend to close in negative territory. Among media stocks, News Corp and Consolidated Media Holdings declined while Fairfax ended in positive territory on huge volumes.   by RTT Staff Writer  For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com 
