(Adds comment)  By Simone Giuliani  MELBOURNE, March 4 (Reuters) - Australian stocks fell 1.6 percent on Wednesday to their lowest close since August 2003, after a surprise decline in fourth-quarter gross domestic product raised concerns on the outlook for company earnings.  Australia's economy shrank for the first time in eight years in the last quarter even after the government handed out money to families and pensioners in a bid to boost spending. For more, see [nSYD382924].  Stocks with earnings sensitive to the domestic economy, such as building materials group Boral Ltd  and department store retailer David Jones Ltd , paced the declines. Boral dropped 5.2 percent and David Jones shed 3.7 percent.  The benchmark S&amp;P/ASX 200 index  lost 52.8 points to 3,166.4, down for a fourth straight session. The index has shed 5.4 percent in the past four trading days. 'There is a lot of uncertainty and investors are waiting to see how things pan through, which is one of the reasons the market is so twitchy at the moment,' said Peter Vann, head of investment research at Constellation Capital Management.  He said much depended on the type and impact of government action undertaken overseas and in Australia to try and prop up banks and economies. 'The Australian economy looks to be flirting with recession, despite obvious support and assistance from fiscal stimulus in Q4,' said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at RBC.  New Zealand's benchmark NZX 50  index added 2.1 percent to 2,469.3, helped by a 5.3 percent rise in the biggest stock, Telecom Corp of New Zealand Ltd .  BANKS FALL  Banks weighed on the Australian market, falling further amid investor concern about lenders' ability to perform through the global financial meltdown.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd  fell 3.6 percent to A$27.27 and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd  lost 3.9 percent to A$12.45.  Earlier this week, Moody's revised its outlook for three of Australia's top four banks due to downturn in the domestic economy.  Among gainers, iron ore explorer Murchison Metals Ltd  leapt 14.9 percent to A$0.65 after Chinese steel trader Sinosteel lifted its stake to 5.85 percent from 4.5 percent, fanning bid speculation.  Sinosteel last year acquired Murchison's rival Midwest  and has Australian Foreign Investment Review Board approval to buy up to 49.9 percent of Murchison. (Additional reporting by Denny Thomas) (Editing by Jonathan Standing) 
