The tale of Stephen Fowler, a.k.a. 'the worst husband in the world,' is what we call a 'talker.' Check out the several hundred SFGate comments following Chronicle staff writer Justin Berton's story ( www.sfgate.com/ZGEM) on the San Franciscan's appearance on ABC-TV's so-called reality show 'Wife Swap.' Not to mention the gazillion other Internet postings from near and far. That apologies have since flowed has not slowed the angry avalanche. Fowler, a renewable energy maven, isn't talking publicly, but knowing the Web world as we do, not everything said about him is necessarily accurate, including the business affiliations ascribed to him.  We do know of two San Francisco environmental organizations that now count Fowler as an ex-board member. A spokesman for ForestEthics said little beyond the fact that the organization has since received e-mails inquiring about him. In a statement, Pacific Environment said Fowler's 'behavior represented on the show absolutely does not reflect the organization's values and ideals.' One question outstanding: Even if Fowler's performance, as has been claimed, was choreographed by the show's producers, why would he agree to it in the first place?  Stanford University wants us to know it is not related in any way to Sir Robert Allen Stanford, the Texas billionaire accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of bilking tens of thousands of investors out of an estimated $8 billion. Nor is it connected in any way with the Stanford Financial Group, one of the entities through which Sir Robert allegedly ran the fraud. In fact, the university filed a lawsuit last year against the Stanford Financial Group for 'trademark infringement and related claims ... to prevent the type of confusion and reputational injury to Stanford University that is caused by (the) SEC charges.' Presumably that includes the academic-looking logo on the financial group's Web site, and headlines that read 'Stanford Charged With Fraud.' Apropos of the Obama administration's foreclosure relief plan, the two biggest banking presences in the Bay Area, San Francisco's Wells Fargo Corp. and North Carolina's Bank of America Corp., are playing nice by extending their moratoriums on planned foreclosure sales. Wells Fargo's lasts until at least March 13. BofA said it would extend its moratorium 'until eligibility details for (Obama's plan) are released.' San Francisco's Jug Shop is hosting a wine tasting fundraiser Friday evening for the victims of the devastating Australian wildfires. For a $30 contribution you get a 'most comprehensive tasting of Victorian wine,' all proceeds going directly to the Australian Red Cross Victorian Bushfire Relief Fund. 6.30-8.30 p.m., Crushpad, 2573 Third St., San Francisco. To register (required), go to links.sfgate.com/ZGEE.   On Tuesday, the South Food + Wine Bar, a San Francisco restaurant specializing in Aussie cuisine, is holding a $125-per-person four-course meal plus wines fundraiser for the fires' victims. More information at southfwb.com/special events.   Tips, feedback: E-mail bottomline@sfchronicle.com.
