CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- Hundreds of hopeful jobseekers waited outside Tuesday in a line that stretched around the Hyatt Place Hotel on Forest Point Blvd in southwest Charlotte.   Many of them were armed with resumes and a dream of landing a job from one of the 17 companies at the Charlotte Job Fair. 'I've been out of work for six months and I just need to get back to work,' said Greta, who did not want to give her last name.   She worked in sales for 17 years in Manhattan before relocating to Charlotte with her husband. They both are now out of work. 'He got laid off, and I just haven't been able to find anything,' she said. Such companies as HMS Host, Clearwire, Avon, Debbie's Staffing and the Charlotte Fire Department were at the job fair.   Some recruiters wanted to fill a job on the spot, while others were just looking to meet and greet potential workers with plans to hire in a few days. 'We'll have some come to our offices for an interview,' said a recruiter with Yellowpages.com.   Organizers of the job fair said they expected thousands to walk through the doors today and they might be right. Job hunters filled the hotel's lobby and hallways. 'We are looking at hiring several positions today,' said Tom Cull, a regional manager of Sonic restaurants in the Charlotte area. 'Anything from servers to cooks. We also need some entry level store managers.' By 11 a.m., Cull said he had already hired more people than he planned.   The first two people in line at the job fair were Huong Le and Carol Farwith. Both women showed up before 6:30 a.m. Both have been unemployed since last year. 'I just want them to know that I want to work,' said Le, who was laid off from her customer service job at Bank of America last May. 'I want to meet them face-to-face and let them know what I can do.' Farwith was also laid off last year and has been working temp jobs since early 2008. 'It's tough but I didn't want to come any later and then find out the places have already hired their people,' she said. The job fair ends at 1 p.m. Another fair will be held on Thursday. For more information, click here. 
