MAQUOKETA  The Maquoketa Area Community Foundation has announced the board of directors and trustees for 2009. Board terms are served on a staggered basis, so that one member retires each year and a new member is inducted. The board of directors is made up of appointed positions, which are filled as follows: Tom Breuch, Jackson County Bar Association; Lenke Carson, Maquoketa Area Chamber of Commerce; Nancy Johnson, Maquoketa State Bank; Diana Larson, Maquoketa Board of Education; and Marilyn Osterhaus, US Bank. Asher Schroeder, of Maquoketa, and Dick Kunau, of Preston, fulfill the two appointed at-large positions.  Trustees include Elaine Edwards representing Maquoketa State Bank and Dwain Trenkamp representing US Bank.  Nancy Johnson, of rural Andrew, is the newest director, replacing Mona Reichling who served one partial and one full term with the Maquoketa Area Community Foundation, starting in 1997.  Officers were elected as follows: Carson, president; Larson, vice president; Osterhaus, treasurer; and Johnson, secretary.  The Community Foundation is proud of the many grants, which were made in 2008, including the funding of the Ohnward Fine Arts Center Endowment, assistance with the creation of the Maquoketa Arts Experience and many awards assisting education districts in Andrew, Bellevue, Maquoketa, Miles and Preston. At the November grant cycle, the board chose to focus on the pressing human service needs and distributed $9,000 to the area food pantries, along with $3,000 split among domestic violence and child abuse organizations, Operation New View and the holiday meals organized by the Ministerial Association.  Human services are of particular concern right now and the board was very aware of that. We wanted to make an impact in some way, as we know the need will continue to be great, said Carson. The board will continue to monitor these areas in the coming year.  This years grant cycle will remain the same as in the past, with deadlines being March 1, June 1, Sept. 1 and Nov. 1. Grant applications are available in the office or online at www.maqarea.org.  The needs of our many non-profit organizations remain great, particularly in these difficult economic times. It is extremely important that individuals continue to financially support the organizations they care about. The Community Foundation is uniquely positioned to assist a variety of organizations through our grant cycles. We hear the needs from the many entities who are working every day in the communities we serve, emphasized Angie McColley, executive director. The board is committed to continuing to distribute funds to the organizations who apply to us. We also need donors to make contributions, as those funds aid us greatly in our commitment to the community.  Contributions to the MACF may be made through the Foundation office, Maquoketa State Bank, US Bank, Bellevue State Bank and Iowa Bank, Bellevue location. Contact the Foundation office for more information at (563) 652-4179 or via the Internet at www.maqarea.org.   Click to discuss this story with other readers on our forums.  
