St. Louis Business Journal  Related News  U.S. Bancorp is asking its managers across the country to cut 5 percent of their budgets for 2009, a move that could result in pay cuts for some employees.  U.S. Bancorp is the holding company for U.S. Bank, the largest bank in St. Louis with more than $10 billion in deposits.  Its unclear how budget cuts will affect each region of the country.  Last month, the company said its profit fell 65 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the same period a year earlier, primarily due to higher provisions for credit losses.  Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp (NYSE: USB) reported net income of $330 million, or 15 cents per share, in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $942 million or 53 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - St. Louis  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  St Louis Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 7,034 SF  Use Type: Sale  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  St. Louis Business Directory  Missouri Articles St.Louis Articles Advertising St.Louis Business Services St.Louis Career St.Louis Cars St.Louis Education St.Louis Financial Services St.Louis Health St.Louis Home Services St.Louis Insurance St.Louis Internet St.Louis Legal St.Louis Real Estate St.Louis Software St.Louis Telecommunications St.Louis Travel St.Louis  
