Orlando Business Journal - by Anjali Fluker Staff Writer  Related News  Two downtown Orlando restaurants that have been in business for nearly 15 years have closed.  Harveys Bistro and Manuels on the 28th  both in the Bank of America Center on Orange Avenue and Livingston Street closed for business Feb. 16 after deciding not to renew the leases.  The restaurants, both owned by Manny Garcia and Hal Valdes, were unable to reach a reasonable lease with building landlord Miami-based Americas Capital Partners, according to general manager Benj Ray.  Ray added that owners of other downtown buildings have approached the company about reopening the restaurants in other locations, but declined to disclose further details.  Garcia and Valdes were unavailable for comment, as was Americas Capital Partners.  Harveys Bistro, which was open for lunch and dinner Monday through Friday and dinner only on Saturday, was on the ground-level of the Bank of America Center. Manuels on the 28th the top-story, fine-dining restaurant in the building  served dinner Tuesday through Saturday.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Orlando  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Division Manager - Medical Devices - Cube Management  Lead Project Analyst  Project Manager, R&amp;D  Nurse Anesthetist  Family Practice Physician  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 12,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte  
