Northern Virginia nonprofits and government agencies are coordinating foreclosure-prevention services for residents in concert with President Barack Obamas announcement that he plans to offer billions in federal aid to help homeowners by modifying mortgages and forgiving some of their debt.  Ten local agencies, most of them nonprofit organizations, that offer counseling to homeowners at-risk of losing their homes have created the NoVa Foreclosure Network to get the word out about counseling services in the area. The network is funded by a $25,000 grant from Bank of America and $10,000 from the Community Foundation for the National Capital Region.  The network will create a cohesive marketing plan to make sure homeowners know about available counseling services, said Chuck Bean, executive director of the Nonprofit Roundtable of Greater Washington. It already has a Web site, www.novaforeclosurenetwork.org.  Homeowners who get behind in their mortgage payments dont always know which organizations to call for help, Bean said. There would be hundreds of nonprofit organizations, and if Im Joe homeowner how am I going to find the one that will help me? he said. We want to cull that down from hundreds of possibilities. Obamas $75 billion foreclosure plan still must be passed by Congress, which could take weeks, but homeowners who are in trouble need to take action as soon as possible, Bean said. Housing counseling programs may be hard to find, he said, but have been shown to prevent foreclosures in many situations. What were hearing is people are calling too late to get help, so we have got to make these resources more visible, easier to find, Bean said. If the model works in Northern Virginia it could be expanded in the Maryland suburbs and D.C., he said.  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!
