While regulators were still building their case against the Houston-based investment firm and its founder, R. Allen Stanford, late last year, the firms clearing broker took action that may have protected investors money. Since 2006, Stanford used Pershing LLC, a unit of Bank of New York Mellon, as a clearing broker. Clearing brokers are part of the securities business that investors rarely see, but they play a crucial role in handling the confirmation, settlement and delivery of trades.  Pershing collected orders from Stanfords Houston-based brokerage, then passed the money on to Stanford International Bank in Antigua. The bank, in turn, issued the certificates of deposit with the oh-so-grand returns that attracted investors.  Pershing handled more than 1,600 transfers totaling more than $500 million, John Ward, a managing director for Pershing, said in a sworn statement filed in court this week.  Early last year, after a routine review of the clearing account, Pershing began to question Stanfords investments and its performance, Ward said.  In its promotional materials, Stanford claimed that its Antigua bank was well capitalized and regulated by banking authorities on the Caribbean island.  When Pershing contacted Antiguan banking examiners, it found the islands regulators didnt verify the assets Stanford claimed on its financial statements. That crucial detail was left to Stanfords own auditors, Ward said in his statement.   By mid-December, after months of trying to figure out what Stanford was doing, Pershing essentially gave up. It stopped processing any wire transfers for Stanford, Ward said.  Stanford then tried setting up outside accounts, asking that Pershing wire money from Stanfords investment firm to these escrow accounts. Pershing refused after determining the escrow accounts would simply pass the money on to the bank in Antigua, Ward said.  Clearing brokers typically arent so diligent in checking our their clients. After all, theyre merely conduits for trades. Pershings hard-nosed approach may reflect broader concerns about stock fraud in the aftermath of the Bernie Madoff scandal, said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the University of Houston. Its unusual behavior, but it reflects the changing economic environment, Pirrong said. Usually, theyre not too concerned with what theyre clearing. Pershing, though, is known for being a stickler on compliance issues, and the firm apparently saw something in Stanfords operation that caused it to pull out.  Its decision may mean that investor money thats been passed on from the investment firm since December has been accumulating in U.S. bank accounts.  A Pershing spokeswoman declined to comment other than to say the firm is working with the receiver appointed by a federal judge earlier this week to oversee Stanfords operations. The judge also issued a restraining order against Stanford Financial and its Antigua bank, but much of Stanfords operations remain a black box. In its lawsuit this week, the Securities and Exchange Commission said as much as 90 percent of the firms assets remain opaque. Unraveling where all the money went may take years for the Dallas attorney whos been appointed receiver.  A troubling aspect of the case, as I wrote on Wednesday, remains that regulators did so little for so long. They fined Stanford $110,000 for five violations in the past two years, according to records filed with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which polices brokerage firms.   In one of those cases, in April 2007, regulators accused Stanford of failing to create the proper reserve accounts for investor money and of failing to properly supervise investor accounts.  In each case, Stanford paid the money without admitting or denying wrongdoing, and regulators allowed Stanford to continue operating. Pershings decision to essentially shut down Stanfords money transfers late last year may be one of the few times before this week that anyone looking at Stanfords business took action to protect investors.  Loren Steffy is the Chronicles business columnist. His commentary appears Sundays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Contact him at loren.steffy@chron.com. His blog is at http://blogs.chron.com/lorensteffy/.
