Dayton Business Journal  Related News  Spectrum Properties of Charlotte has launched a subsidiary, Spectrum Properties Multifamily Acquisitions Inc., that looks to buy up to $500 million in real estate, including in Ohio.  The division will purchase apartments and student housing in the Southeast, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest.  It plans to own and manage $200 million to $500 million in real estate.  Our objective is to purchase properties at very attractive pricing, manage them intensively during a three to seven-year holding period and then sell them for a substantial profit that produces a handsome return for our investors, said John Gray, president of the newly formed division.  The company says multifamily housing properties offer the best risk-adjusted return of all property types. Apartment demand is still relatively strong. In addition, new apartment completions are down dramatically, holding future supply to historically low levels. Meanwhile, stricter mortgage-underwriting standards are making it difficult for prospective buyers to qualify for home loans.  Spectrum Properties is a privately-held, real estate development company. It manages 4.2 million square feet of space and has 100 employees.  E-mail dayton@bizjournals.com. Call (937) 528-4400.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Freddie Mac: Mortgage rates fall  [Raleigh/Durham]  Bank of America, Wells Fargo extend foreclosure moratoriums  [Washington, D.C.]  Wells extends foreclosure moratorium  [South Florida]  Bank of America, Wells Fargo extend foreclosure moratoriums  [Portland]  Noted broker DAngelo joins Colliers Bennett &amp; Kahnweiler  [Denver]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Dayton  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Assistant Controller  OBGYN Nurse  Cardiologists Sought for Charlotte-Area Opportunity!  Manager of PMO  Health Care Administrative Assistant  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 15,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte  
