The Jan. 16 application to the Federal Reserve Bank and a subsequent application to the Florida Office of Financial Regulation (OFR) would allow the bank to do transactions for its Canadian customers in Miami. It could also give them loans using Florida property as collateral.  The Bank of Nova Scotia (NYSE: BNS) is a subsidiary of Toronto-based Scotiabank. The subsidiary bank ranked third in Canada with assets of $507.6 billion in Canadian dollars as of Oct. 31. That would be equal to $417.6 billion in U.S. dollars.  The federal application said Alan Jenkins, director of U.S. private banking international for the Bank of Nova Scotia, would manage the Miami agency. A location has not been selected.  The bank would hire local staff, but it the application did not say how many. The bank anticipates that the initial operations environment in Miami will be modest in scope and size, and will then gradually expand as the agencys business grows, the Bank of Nova Scotia stated in its federal application.  The bank also has an international agency office in Houston and a branch in Puerto Rico.  Ryan Stokes, who reviews international bank applications for the OFR, said the Bank of Nova Scotia had an office in Miami from 1978 to 1988 and from 1990 to 1993. Both were closed. A Scotiabank spokesman did not immediately return a call seeking comment.  Of the 42 international banking offices currently operating in Florida, 40 are in Miami-Dade County, Stokes noted. Even though it hasnt had an office in South Florida for quite some time, the Bank of Nova Scotia has been active here. In 2006, it wrote a $134.7 million mortgage to build the CityPlace South Tower, a West Palm Beach project by the Miami-based Related Group. It also financed $30 million out of the $96.5 million construction loan written for Opera Tower in Miami in 2006.  In 2005, Bank of Nova Scotia wrote a $121 million mortgage to build the Fontainebleau condo-hotel in Miami Beach. That loan was sold to Bank of America in 2008.  Most Canadian banks are in better shape than U.S. banks because they did not do subprime mortgages and Canadian regulators have been stricter than their U.S. counterparts, said Salomon Kassin, managing director of the financial institutions group for Miami-based Ladenburg Thalmann.  From Miami, the Bank of Nova Scotia can oversee its operations in Latin America and the Caribbean, Kassin said. Theres probably never been a bad time for Canadians coming down to Florida.'
