The Business Journal of Milwaukee - by Adam Kress Phoenix Business Journal  Related News  As President Barack Obama delivered his plan to rescue struggling home owners, the U.S. Commerce Department reported a 16.8 percent drop in construction of new homes and apartments.  Januarys drop lead to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 466,000 units, the slowest pace in more than a half century.  In addition, applications for building permits -- a barometer of future activity -- dropped to a record low, falling 4.8 percent to a rate of 521,000 units.  According to the Commerce Department report, construction activity fell 29 percent in the Midwest to a record low of 53,000 units. Construction dropped 6.4 percent in the West to an annual rate of 131,000 units, the slowest pace since October 1966, and 43 percent in the Northeast to a record low of 36,000 units annually. Building fell 12.8 percent in the South to a record low of 246,000 units.  For all of last year, the number of housing units builders broke ground on totaled 906,200, also a record low. That was down from 1.36 million units started in 2007. The previous low was set in 1991.  Obama on Wednesday unveiled the administrations new foreclosure relief plan, which will spend $75 billion in an effort to prevent 7 million to 9 million Americans from losing their homes.  The Phoenix Business Journal is a sister publication of The Business Journal Serving Greater Milwaukee.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Cheryl Schuette out at Village Homes  [Denver]  Americans confidence in economy waning  [Sacramento]  Mass. foreclosures spiked 22% in Jan.  [Boston]  Bank of America, Wells Fargo extend foreclosure moratoriums  [Raleigh/Durham]  Political fights loom over infrastructure dollars  [Jacksonville]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Milwaukee  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Assistant Controller  OBGYN Nurse  Cardiologists Sought for Charlotte-Area Opportunity!  Manager of PMO  Health Care Administrative Assistant  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 15,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte  
