Sacramento Business Journal - by Michael Shaw Staff writer  Related News  D&amp;S Development Inc., a Sacramento development firm that has redeveloped many older properties and successfully turned them into new mixed-use projects, has taken over an option to purchase the empty Maydestone building at 15th and J streets, a 34-unit apartment building, according to the investor who previously held to option to buy it.  Joe deUlloa, who owns properties around the city, had an option to purchase the Maydestone for several years, but had been involved in a dispute with the building owner over repairs needed to complete the transaction. DeUlloa said he decided to assign his interest to D&amp;S and move on with other plans, adding that the terms of the deal were in the low six figures.  D&amp;S created the iLofts in Old Sacramento by revamping an old Mechanics Exchange building and has been turning a former warehouse district on R Street into residential lofts.  Officials at the company could not be reached for comment, but CB Richard Ellis broker Ken Turton, who represented both sides in the transaction, said he expects that a developer with a strong track record like D&amp;S will provide a quality project at the Maydestone building.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  NBA preps for Phoenix All-Star Block Party  [Phoenix]  Sonic Foundry narrows loss on jump in revenue  [Milwaukee]  Google wants Time Warner to take back its AOL stake  [Atlanta]  CommerceHub board member resigns; new member named  [Albany]  Future uncertain for Citigroup, Bank of America sports sponsorships  [Raleigh/Durham]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  City Guide Spotlight - Sacramento  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Pacific Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 4,488 SF  Use Type: Lease  Honolulu Business Directory  Hawaii Articles Honolulu Articles Advertising Honolulu Business Services Honolulu Career Honolulu Cars Honolulu Education Honolulu Financial Services Honolulu Health Honolulu Home Services Honolulu Insurance Honolulu Internet Honolulu Legal Honolulu Real Estate Honolulu Software Honolulu Telecommunications Honolulu Travel Honolulu  
