         Light reading, can&amp;#039;t really dance to it, The entrails of what is coming to you.  Ti   http://www.imf.com.au/   SYNTHETIC, SINGLE TRANCHE, NON SUB-PRIME, COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS REFERENCED TO MULTIPLE, CORPORATE DEFAULTS By Hugh McLernon 23 September 2008 Introduction 1. As can be seen from the topic, this is an area infested with jargon. 2. The wizards who created financial derivatives commenced their work by creating a completely new language for themselves and their investors. 3. In their new world, black has become white and up has become down. The meaning of words has become what the author wants them to mean. 4. In this world, artifice reigns over substance. Remember the general definition of jargon is obscure and often pretentious language marked by circumlocutions and long words. By way of example I give you the bankruptcy remote vehicle which is a topic to which I shall return. 5. Remember too, that the definition of circumlocution is the use of an unnecessarily large number of words to express an idea. 6. In many CDO documents one needs to trawl through 15 to 20 definitions in order to understand a single phrase. 7. Warren Buffett is best known for his description of derivatives as weapons of mass financial destruction but, around the same time as he made that comment, he also pointed to the circumlocution of derivative documentation  and CDO squareds  I figured out on a CDO squared you have to read 750,000 pages to understand the instruments that were underneath it. 8. Buffett seems to me to be a straight talker and the arch enemy of circumlocution. I think he arrived at his weapon of mass financial destruction comment, in large part, because of their complication. 9. The best known sub prime CDO in Australia is the Federation CDO promoted by Lehman Brothers. I have tried to reverse engineer that CDO and I can vouch for Buffetts number. The federation CDO includes tranches from forty different residential mortgage backed securities which in turn sit above tens of thousands of residential mortgages. No one in their right mind would try to carry out a full due diligence on such a structure. 10. As will become apparent from what follows, I believe that jargon has played its usual role in synthetic CDOs ie.. to obfuscate and to leave the reader in a position where he must rely, almost totally, upon the author. #73247 My Premise 11. I will seek to persuade you that these synthetic CDOs are not financial instruments at all but, are rather complicated gambling tickets. 12. My secondary premise is that these particular CDOs represent the final chapter in the derivative story  history will see them as the last and most artificial effort of the derivative engineers. 13. To make good these premises I will first outline the players and their structures. The Promoter 14. The promoters of synthetic CDOs are generally international investment and trading banks. Not all of the banks but most of them - including some here in Australia. 15. The banks essentially lend their reputation to the deal. Not even the most sophisticated investor would read all of the documents involved in any given synthetic CDO so the reputation of the promoter is paramount. 16. The promoter structures the CDO. It pays the bills. 17. All of the Wall Street investment banks and many others, including; Royal Bank of Scotland, ANZ, Westpac, Barclays were involved as promoters in these transactions. 18. The promoter employs the lawyers to prepare the documentation, the spin doctors to spread the story and the muscle to ensure that regulators did not intervene. 19. I do not hesitate to suggest that these products  huge snip not posted cause its twelve pages long, great read if you are into understanding these beastly monsters.  120. It may turn out to be the case that the amount of CDS and CDO issued during 2007 doubled from the previous year (which must mean that 10s of trillions of dollars of business were done in the area in 2007 alone) precisely for this reason. 121. These factors will make the rating agencies more and more susceptible to claim from those who lost money during this process. 122. We do not know yet whether the banks set up back to back arrangements with their synthetic CDOs. i.e.. did they hold the principal position so that they will get the major windfall which is about to occur or did they pass that on to others in CDS transactions so that the bank adopted a central position between both groups of investors. 123. If this occurred then the banks will not be the big winners from the failure of the CDOs- that benefit will have been passed on to the back to back investors. 124. The banks will suffer however if investors at the front end are able to upset their transactions and the bank is unable to avoid the back end of the transaction. 125. No matter who are the winners and losers out of this mess it is a debacle which will be with us for the next decade as the CDO &amp;amp;amp; CDS transactions come to their full term.  end of this snip.  Third and last update on diversification report. Hugh McLernon 11/11/08 1. Our first three reports on this matter paint a gloomy and deteriorating position. 2. It remains the case that all but 5 of the 32 companies reported upon are likely, and in some cases certain, to fail in one way or another. 3. The 5 companies that should escape the financial disaster presently engulfing all financial markets are: Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Citigroup and UBS. There are some others that may escape. 4. The U.S regulators have done all (or perhaps, nearly all) in their power to prevent these companies from defaulting  in many cases, they have forced companies to be taken over by other, more robust, companies. 5. It may well be the case, however, that the problems are simply too large and too entrenched to be capable of massage. Readers also need to keep in mind that these are but 32 of some 6 or 7 hundred companies which have been included in the default baskets of synthetic Australian CDOs. Many of the other companies carry on business in the financial arena and occupy the second ring out from the epicentre occupied by the 32 companies referred to in our earlier reports. 6. A new problem is now emerging  who will decide which companies have failed and who will report upon their demise. Lehman Brothers is now gone  it was one of the major promoters, and its interest in antipodean CDOs has no doubt waned. 7. This is our last report on this topic because the next six months will tell the tale  there will either be sufficient company defaults to destroy the value of all synthetic Australian CDOs or the likelihood will be that the CDOs will limp on to maturity with partial, but not sufficient, defaults so that their holders are paid out upon that maturity. 8. It is now apparent that fraud has been a hallmark of many of these corporate failures. This being the case, it is impossible to say that the full financial picture is available on all of the companies. 9. Company 1  American International Group (Insurer)  in mid September 2008 the US Government lent US$85billion to AIG. The loan carries interest at about 12.5%. It is thought that most of the loan has been drawn down. In return for the loan, the government received an 80% position in the company. Leading up to this point, the company shares had fallen by 91% in the previous year. The shares are now trading at US$2.11 (Document 2). Management has said that it will begin selling assets as quickly as possible to clear the debt. There is serious doubt as to whether the prices received for these assets will be sufficient to clear the debt and it #75584 is likely that the company will eventually be wound up. On October 7 Moodys downgraded AIG from A3 to A2 and revised its outlook on AIG to negative (Document 1). On 8 October 2008 the US government agreed to advance a further US $38 billion in addition to the US $85 billion (Document 3). AIG has been bailed out by the US Government  it is not yet in default but may go into default if its asset sales do not enable it to repay the US$123 Billion lent to it by the government. As at 10 November 2008 the size of the bailout has grown to US$150BN! (Document 4). It now appears that unless the US Government fails then AIG will not fail. 10. Company 2  AMBAC (Bond Insurer)  at the time of our last report on 27 June 2008, AMBAC was trading at US$1.61. Over the following months the share price went as high as US$9.00 but has now fallen back to $US1.67 (Document 6). In mid September, Moodys placed the ratings of AMBAC and its subsidiaries on review for a downgrade. This was based on the ongoing losses arising from the sub-prime crisis (Document 5). The AMBAC share price is heading towards zero as it continues to haemorrhage money from the sub-prime crisis. It is likely to fail. On 6 October 2008, the company announced a write-down of $401Million for the month of August. If this company suffers a further downgrading, which appears likely, then it will not have sufficient funds to cover its obligations (Document 5). Ambac lost $2.43BN in the third quarter (Document 7) and had its rating cut by 4 steps to BAAA1 by Moodys (Document 8). Ambac is alleging fraud by others (Document 9) and is itself being sued. (Document 9A). Short of a government bailout this company seems terminal. 11. Company 3  Bear Stearns (Investment Bank)  This company was taken over by JP Morgan. If JP Morgan were to fail, then this would probably constitute two defaults, ie: one for JP Morgan and one for Bear Stearns. (refer company 16 below). Bear Sterns has been purchased by JP Morgan- it has not defaulted on its debt  its future is now dependant on the future of JP Morgan. 12. Company 4  Beazer (Home Builder)  Since our last report this company along with all of the other major US home builders under went a revival. From about mid July 2008 through to mid September 2008 the share price ...
