 great article though it puts me into a deeper depression.     &amp;amp;lt;snip&amp;amp;gt;  The government documents that Bloomberg seeks are central to understanding and assessing the governments response to the most cataclysmic financial crisis in America since the Great Depression.  The effect of that crisis on the American public has been and will continue to be devastating.  Hundreds of corporations are announcing layoffs in response to the crisis, and the economy was the top issue for many Americans in the recent elections.  In response to the crisis, the Fed has vastly expanded its lending programs to private financial institutions.  To obtain access to this public money and to safeguard the taxpayers interests, borrowers are required to post collateral.  Despite the manifest public interest in such matters, however, none of the programs themselves make reference to any public disclosure of the posted collateral or of the Feds methods in valuing it.  Thus, while the taxpayers are the ultimate counterparty for the collateral, they have not been given any information regarding the kind of collateral received, how it was valued, or by whom.    &amp;amp;lt;snip&amp;amp;gt;   What all of the companies in this article have in common is that they were writing secret contracts called Credit Default Swaps (CDS) on each other and/or between each other.  These are not the credit default swaps recently disclosed by the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (DTCC).  These are the contracts that still live in darkness and are at the root of why the Wall Street banks wont lend to each other and why their share prices are melting faster than a snow cone in July.  A Credit Default Swap can be used by a bank to hedge against default on loans it has made by buying a type of insurance from another party.  The buyer pays a premium upfront and annually and the seller pays the face amount of the insurance in the event of default.   In the last few years, however, the contracts have been increasingly used to speculate on defaults when the buyer of the CDS has no exposure to the firm or underlying debt instruments.  The CDS contracts outstanding now total somewhere between $34 Trillion and $54 Trillion, depending on whose data you want to use, and it remains an unregulated market of darkness.  It is also quite likely that none of the firms that agreed to pay the hundreds of billions in insurance, such as AIG, have the money to do so.  It is also quite likely that were these hedges shown to be uncollectible hedges, massive amounts of new capital would be needed by the big Wall Street firms and some would be deemed insolvent.  Until Congress holds serious investigations and hearings, the U.S. taxpayer may be funding little more than Ponzi schemes while companies that provide real products and services, legitimate jobs and contributions to the economy are left to fail.       Who here thinks congress will &amp;quot;Do the right thing&amp;quot;???       thanks Octafish.        
