         I&amp;#039;ve been collecting cash in my HYP for several months now, and today finally found the energy to select and buy some shares.  My unit price, based on average holding value, has fallen by 35% since my last purchasing round, which was in August 2007.  I first looked at re-balancing my portfolio - I am overweight in BP, Shell, Land Sec, Pearson, SSE, Tate, UU and Vodafone. Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, these all have good forecast yields and there seems to be no point in selling a chunk of these to buy something with a lower yield and possibly more risk; and incurring transaction costs. So no sales today.  I am happy to pick from the FTSE350, having done well in the past with FTSE250 stocks - probably better than with FTSE100.  I considered and rejected Cattles (scary yield, and I&amp;#039;m not clear how their business will/can grow so their ambition worries me), and IPF (I hold some of these from a demerger, they have done well but the forecast yield wasn&amp;#039;t good enough).  I wondered if it the original rule (please don&amp;#039;t tell me that there are no rules) that being overweight in financials is a good thing still holds. In the end I decided that finance will still make the world go round and a well diversified HYP should benefit in the long run from a few well chosen financial shares. Of course without a crystal ball I can&amp;#039;t tell which are good and which are, to use a popular phrase, toxic. I decided to top up on Lloyds - about a half unit (either they will take Brown&amp;#039;s shilling and buy HBOS, and eventually emerge as a front runner, or they will not buy HBOS, and either not need the handout or have a smaller handout and so emerge much earlier); but not to top up on RBS (seemed a second choice to Lloyds). Barclays didn&amp;#039;t get a look in although I do hold it in another HYP. I also bought a full unit of Aviva - although I have a full unit of Royal &amp;amp;amp; Sun, I had no general insurer.  I bought a full unit of Anglo American as I have not held a miner since Rio Tinto (what happened to them?) and the yield looked good. This felt like the opposite of catching a falling knife - I was chasing the price upwards all afternoon.  I bought a full unit of Glaxo. Although there have been attractive prices before, it never made it onto the buy list as there were always better looking choices (with hindsight I may have been wrong).  I topped up on Smiths (SMDS) - about half a unit. The dividend is expected to be cut, but this seems to be in the price. Forecast yield is 12% now and 6% further out.  Finally, I bought a unit of Unilever - seems popular round these parts, and the forecast yield is OK.  This seems like a lot of new stuff but it is largely due to falling share prices. I now hold 24 companies in this HYP.  Thanks to everyone who bothers to contribute to this board. I don&amp;#039;t post as much as I used to, but I do still read and value everyone&amp;#039;s opinions.  M                  
