Keighley MP Ann Cryer has been assured by the Minister for Immigration, Phil Woolas, that offices abroad are prepared for changes to immigration rules.   From December, the age limit at which someone can sponsor, or be sponsored, as a spouse from abroad will rise from 18 to 21.   Mrs Cryer said she was concerned about the readiness of Border Agency offices to implement the new rules, for which she has campaigned for some time.   She said: I am pleased the minister could reassure me the Border Agency is ready to implement the new rules.   Increasing the age at which people can invite or be invited to join a spouse will provide an opportunity for individuals to develop maturity and life skills which may allow them to resist the pressure of being forced into marriage. It will also provide an opportunity for young people to complete education and training.  Three prosecution witnesses have failed to attend court to give evidence in the trial of a couple accused of a crash-for-cash insurance scam, a jury heard.   This x-ray clearly shows a gun pellet lodged inside a cat which had to undergo life-saving surgery after it was shot in Bradford.   Health chiefs in Bradford have backed a Coroners warning about the dangers of binge drinking after a teenager drowned during a night out.   Legal moves are under way to evict a group of travellers who have camped on the car park of a former car dealership in Bradford.   A rugby star was on hand to help raise hundreds of pounds for charity at the launch of a new hair salon.   The number of people suffering from cancer could double in the next 40 years unless steps are taken to stem the rising tide of obesity, an expert has warned.  Obafemi Martins sent Newcastle hurtling up the Barclays Premier League table but still could not keep Joey Barton out of the headlines.   Jeremy Clarkson has sparked fresh BBC controversy by joking about murdering prostitutes.  Dean Furman faces a three-week lay-off to add to Citys mounting midfield injury woes. 
