COVENTRY residents once again dug deep to help youngsters less fortunate than themselves during Children in Need Day on Friday (November 14).  Students at Heart of England Training got in on the action by offering bargain hair and beauty treatments in return for a donation to the appeal.  And just to make sure no-one missed them, they were wearing their finest day-glo gear, as they dressed as 'Neon Ravers' for the day.  They also sold cakes and sweets to further boost funds.  Lecturer Terri Granaghan said: 'The students organised everything themselves - coming up with the idea, designing posters to promote it and going out into the city to encourage people in - and it all went really well.'At city centre department store BHS, staff made a donation to the charity to come in wearing their own clothes, and also collected cash from customers.  And on the night itself, staff at Barclays' call centre in Coventry were once again manning the phones to take calls from members of the public, taking over 88,000 in donations.  Sports and social community co-ordinator Heather Chalkley said: 'It was an absolutely fantastic night - we had a huge amount of calls but there were more than enough volunteers, and we had people coming in from Barclays offices across the area, not just our own.'Staff also held a raffle and auction on the night, and a number of community events took place throughout the month, organised by Barclays staff, including a charity football match, quiz night, curry lunch, cake and sweet sales, book sales, a casual dress day, sponsored 12-hour busk and Bhangra dance event.  Hair and Beauty students at Heart of England Training Academy get raving for Children in Need. 47.08.009.jg  Dressing up and raising cash are BHS staff Carmel Sexton, Chris McGrath, Adele Relf, Jackie Mosley, Michelle Bayliss and Kayleigh Wrighting. 47.08.011.jg  Pudsey meets Barclays volunteer and fundraiser Toni Barr. (s)  Zoe Noble tries not to get too distracted as she mans the phones. (s)
