By Greg Stutchbury  Melbourne - Australians partied hard at a sun-drenched, champagne-sodden Melbourne Cup on Tuesday, pushing away concerns about the global financial crisis in sharp contrast to the country's central bankers who slashed interest rates in a frantic effort to save the nation from recession.  As champagne corks popped at Flemington race course and bookmakers banked millions of dollars, Australia's Reserve Bank of Australia offered a more sobering scene in Sydney, giving a grim assessment of the economy.  The central bank cut the cash rate, used by banks as the basis for all sorts of loans, by 75 basis points to 5,25 percent.  It also warned that a worsening global outlook and falling commodities prices pointed to weaker-than-expected activity and spending at home.  But scenes at Australia's most celebrated horse race suggested few cared.  Feathers in hair, his-and-hers matching suits resembling jockey silks, and haute couture were contrasted with the iconic tuxedo printed T-shirt complete with black and white high cut sneakers to convey the true laid-back Australian spirit.  The point for the 107 280 spectators, who watched master Australian trainer Bart Cummings win his 12th Melbourne Cup with the unfancied Viewed holding off fast-finishing British-trained Bauer, was to embrace the race 'that stops the nation'. 'The true impact of the (financial) crisis hasn't quite hit us yet, that is what I can feel,' a multi-coloured garland wearing Sotiri Giannis said. 'It has had some impacts to some extent but I don't think we have had the full impact yet,' the Melbourne salesman added. 'Interest rates are going down and I believe the RBA have an announcement due, so with the negative there is always the positive.' Giannis, who along with friend Louis Kaetanakos, had bought the garlands of plastic flowers 'for two bucks (dollars)' to support Irish raider Honolulu. 'An occasion like this brings out the best in everyone. Everyone wants to dress up. It's a festival,' said Giannis. Festival atmosphere  The Melbourne Cup used to attract the country's central bankers to the city to hold their November policy meeting. Those days have passed.  But it was festival atmosphere that attracted American traveller Cat McCaddem from Seattle, Washington, to the race as part of her four-month round-the-world holiday. 'This was a very anticipated event. I planned to be in Melbourne for the Cup,' she said. 'I had heard about the style part of the day, the party part of the day and the horse racing and was keen on all three. 'I wanted to get dressed up, put these feathers in my hair and hang out with all these really great people.' McCaddem added the financial crisis was effecting people worldwide but the crowd's attitude at Flemington had brought home an important life lesson. 'To me, the shit is hitting the fan, but life still goes on and people are still keen on enjoying themselves and that is what is going on here. 'It's part of their tradition. They want to come here and have a good experience and there is value in that.' Her compatriot Blake Sanborn, the pair had met earlier on Tuesday at a celebratory breakfast organised by mutual friends, added he was also impressed with Australia's attitude. 'The fact the Australians have a holiday for a horse race is classic,' said the architect, who only emigrated to Australia from San Francisco three months ago. 'There is a work-life balance and I've found it,' he added before clinking champagne flutes with McCaddem. 'Cheers!' - Reuters 
