A married woman has denied she had an affair with the man accused of the abduction, rape and murder of Southampton teenager Hannah Foster.  Carole Dennis said she had only met Maninder Pal Singh Kohli three times and never alone, Winchester Crown Court heard.  Mrs Dennis said she had known of Kohli, 40, who denies the charges against him, because he worked with her husband of 16 years,  James, at Hazlewood Foods in Southampton.  Prosecution barrister Nicholas Haggan QC asked: 'Have you ever had an affair with him (Kohli)? Tearfully, mother-of-one Mrs Dennis replied: 'No.'  A-Level student Hannah, 17, was abducted on March 14 2003 near her home in Southampton and her body was found two days later dumped at a roadside in Hampshire.  The prosecution alleges sandwich delivery driver Kohli snatched her from the roadside, raped her and strangled her when he feared she might identify him to the police. He then fled to India but was extradited back to the UK last year.  Earlier the jury had heard that supervisor Mr Dennis had lent 16,000 to Kohli when they both worked at Hazlewood Foods because he needed money and he wanted to help him out. The trial was told that Mr Dennis continued to lend the cash over 18 months, which was all his earnings, despite his wife pleading with him to stop and she became ill over the issue.  Civilian police worker Mrs Dennis told the jury she found out her husband had lent money to Kohli in July 2002 when she saw that there was less in their joint Barclays account than she thought. She said she had only seen Kohli when he had given her and her husband a lift home, in a park in Southampton when Kohli was with his wife and children and at a meeting at Hazlewood Foods where Kohli, her father-in-law, Mr Dennis and herself discussed getting the money back.  Kohli's barrister, Abbas Lakha QC, has previously accused Mr Dennis and his brother Jonathan of kidnapping Kohli on the night Hannah disappeared, and putting him a 'sexually compromising position' because they were scared Kohli would go back to India owing the cash. Mr Lakha has also suggested that Mrs Dennis had an affair with Kohli and the money was handed over to stop the fact getting out. Both brothers denied the allegations when they gave evidence to the jury.  Kohli denies the murder, rape, abduction and false imprisonment of Hannah.  Copyright (c) Press Association Ltd. 2008, All Rights Reserved.  
