The NHLPA has filed a grievance against the Capitals because the team has denied players' association representatives access to the dressing room areas at Verizon Center, which the PA claims is against league policy.  Prior to the game on Oct. 13 in Washington, Joe Reekie, a former Capital who now works for the PA as a divisional representative, was denied access to the dressing room area, according to sources. PA general counsel Ian Penny also was in attendance and was originally denied access to the event floor, but was later escorted to the dressing room area to meet with a member of the Vancouver Canucks, but only after Commissioner Gary Bettman set up the meeting with the player, according to sources. Bettman was at Verizon Center for other reasons.  The PA claims that Reekie and Penny should have been granted access to the dressing room according to the league's media guidelines, which read, in part, 'No one other than NHL, NHLPA or team representatives or properly accredited members of the Media shall be allowed in dressing rooms during Media access periods.'  I'm told by sources that the PA has had few, if any, similar issues with other teams. But having covered the Capitals for a number of years now, I know full well that General Manager George McPhee does not permit player agents or PA reps to conduct business on the event floor or in the dressing room areas. He feels, I'm told, that agents and PA reps have ample opportunity to conduct their business with players outside of the building.  I asked the Capitals about this, and they referred all inquires to NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly.  Daly told me that he believes the PA is misinterpreting the media availability guidelines and that McPhee and the Capitals have the right to determine who is granted access to the dressing rooms on game days.  'Nothing in the CBA compels greater access than the Caps are providing currently,' Daly said moments ago.  Penny said in a statement: 'The NHLPA confirms that it has filed a grievance regarding the Washington Capitals recent denial of event level and dressing room access to NHLPA staff. The Club's actions violate the negotiated media access policy, which is an extension of the CBA and is binding on all NHL Clubs.'  The grievance will be heard by arbitrator Richard Bloch in the near future, I'm told. If the Bloch rules in favor of the PA, the worst that can happen to the Capitals is that they will have to revise their access guidelines.  Ealier this year, the Capitals declined to provide Reekie, who used to do postgame analysis for Comcast Sportnet, with a media credential because of his position with the PA.  The grievance was reported today by TSN.ca and the Toronto Star.  By Tarik El-Bashir    November 20, 2008; 7:11 PM ET  Previous: Green, Semin, Fedorov Out; Morrisonn In    Next: Green Has MRI  I guess Reekie won't be eager to attend any alumni games any time soon.  Posted by: oldtimehockey   November 20, 2008 7:27 PM  Posted by: goskinsgo   November 20, 2008 7:31 PM  wow. GMGM just continues to increase is 'hugability' quotient. i suppose i dont disagree with having agents and player reps around in the locker room. however, i have seen reekie on tv before, its doubtful he would have anything to say which could be of any use to anyone.  Posted by: dcsportsfan1   November 20, 2008 7:37 PM  The fact that nobody besides 'NHL, NHLPA or team representatives or properly accredited members of the Media' is allowed does not mean that all of those members are required to be allowed, its just limiting anyone else. Unless there are other parts of the agreement not posted I don't see how the caps have done anything wrong.  Posted by: finnmeg   November 20, 2008 7:45 PM  Posted by: dcsportsfan1   November 20, 2008 7:57 PM  Typical silly grievance. What on earth were they (NHLPA) going to discuss before a game anyway.  Posted by: UllyFrustratedCapsFan   November 20, 2008 8:21 PM  Posted by: Boo-   November 20, 2008 8:25 PM  Posted by: Section117   November 20, 2008 8:32 PM  goskinsgo:  I found the article online by logging in to The Hockey News with my subscription account info. However, I can't cut and paste the text (it is locked down). But (ironically enough) I can email it. So if you want to post your email address I can send it to you (or, if you have anyone's email address here, several people know how to contact me). BTW, it is a Joe Starkey article - cover title is, 'Ovechkin vs. Malkin - the NHL's Craziest Feud'; the actual article title is, 'MVP Venom'.  Posted by: Boo-   November 20, 2008 8:49 PM  finnmeg has it right - just because those named are the only ones allowed does not compel GMGM to provide them access.  Posted by: Section303   November 20, 2008 8:54 PM  Posted by: austinsteve   November 20, 2008 9:33 PM  Posted by: austinsteve   November 20, 2008 9:35 PM  Posted by: irockthered   November 20, 2008 9:36 PM  Posted by: sargeantmofo   November 20, 2008 9:40 PM  Posted by: Boo-   November 20, 2008 9:49 PM  Posted by: large23220   November 20, 2008 10:06 PM  Post a Comment  We encourage users to analyze, comment on and even challenge washingtonpost.com's articles, blogs, reviews and multimedia features.  User reviews and comments that include profanity or personal attacks or other inappropriate comments or material will be removed from the site. Additionally, entries that are unsigned or contain 'signatures' by someone other than the actual author will be removed. Finally, we will take steps to block users who violate any of our posting standards, terms of use or privacy policies or any other policies governing this site. Please review the full rules governing commentaries and discussions.  
