WHEN he was a hungry child begging unwanted sandwiches from men leaving their place of work, Harry Smith could not have dreamed that one day a royal prince would serve him his dinner  and call him 'Sir'.  Nor could Harry have envisaged being twice torpedoed and rescued from a Royal Navy submarine, or having to dig frozen bodies from ice and snow in St Petersburg.  But these were all events in Harry's life, which ended on October 24 at the City General Hospital, at the age of 91.  Born the twelfth of 13 children to face serious family poverty in Sheffield, his father was a steel worker and his mother an alcoholic, who used money needed for food and clothing on drink.  Harry begged sandwiches from home-going steel workers at the mill gates.  At the age of 16, he joined the Royal Navy, the start of a 27-year career which ended with him as a Chief Petty Officer and electrician.  But even when he was home on leave, his mother pawned his uniform to get money for gin, and his father had to retrieve it so he could go back to Portsmouth on duty.  After seven years on surface ships, he volunteered for submarine service and became an expert in electrical circuitry for ships and submarines.  Twice during the Second World War, Harry was torpedoed. The first time was in the North Sea, from which he was rescued by a trawler. Then his submarine was shadowing a convoy in the Atlantic when it too was hit by a torpedo. A surface ship destroyed the U-boat and picked up Harry as one of the survivors.  These were grim events, but Harry's worst memory was going by submarine to St Petersburg in 1943, where he was required to dig frozen bodies from ice and snow as Russian troops drove back German forces.  His son Melvyn said his father didn't speak much about wartime ordeals, but he was a man who 'laughed and smiled a lot, and nothing ever got him down'.  On retirement from the Navy in 1959, Harry formed the Sea Cadets Unit at Church Lawton. He was concerned to teach life and seagoing skills, and it proved popular among boys from Kidsgrove, Talke Pits and Alsager. He was made up to Lieutenant Commander, and when he took cadets to visit a naval base in Cornwall, Prince Andrew, who was there at the same time, served his meal and called him 'Sir', as on a naval base Harry held the senior rank. Recalling this, Harry used to wonder: 'Who would have thought that a penniless beggar would be served his dinner by a member of the Royal Family?'  He became an area officer for the Sea Cadets before handing the work over in 1980.  Harry married his first wife Betty Holloway, from Sandyford, in 1950 at the local Methodist Church. They had two sons and a daughter, and Betty died in 1977.  In 1989 he married Renee Brown at Newcastle Roman Catholic Church, and she survives him.  From 1959 he was a messenger with Barclays Bank, first at Wolverhampton, and then from 1964 at the Ironmarket in Newcastle. He retired officially when he was 65, but for a further five years he worked there as a general handyman.  He had lived at Clayton, then Hempstalls, and finally at May Bank.  His funeral took place on November 6 at Bradwell Crematorium.  
