EXCELLENCE and dedication were rewarded last night as the key players in the region's tourism industry gathered in Scarborough. For the fourth consecutive year the Spa hosted the Moors and Coast Tourism Partnership Awards, celebrating the hard work of businesses spanning from Scarborough to Ryedale, and Hambleton to the North York Moors.  All nominees were invited to attend the glittering ceremony, which opened with a speech from Clive Rowe-Evans, chairman of the Moors and Coast Tourism Partnership, before Cllr David Jeffels gave grace for the dinner.  Mr Clive Rowe-Evans said: 'It has been a rollercoaster year with an appaling summer and the credit crunch. However there has been some good news, which will be proved here tonight.'While dinner was served the guests were entertained by the Bob Ludlam Band, before the host for the awards, former Miss Scarborough and Calendar presenter Carolyn Hodgson, took to the stage.She said: 'I am delighted to be here tonight. As you know I'll take any excuse to get me back to Scarborough as I love it here.'Scarborough's businesses faired well on the stage, scooping awards for eight of the 15 categories, including five winners and three commendations.  This year saw a new category added to the competition; the Continental Bar of the Year, which was won by one of Scarborough's newest bars, The Glass House, at the North Bay Railway.  Lesley Humphries, managing director of the Glass House said: 'I am really happy and excited that we have won, especially as we have only been open since May. 'I don't have a lot of experience in cafes and my team have worked really hard to make this possible.'The Restaurant of the Year (high volume) category was also dominated by Scarborough entrants as The Copper Horse, in Seamer, was declared the winner, and Tricolos was highly commended.  Robert Lazenby, restaurant manager at the Cooper Horse said: 'I am a bit surprised but I'm really pleased and happy for all the staff and all the hard work they have done.'The winner of the Restaurant of the Year (special occasion) was awarded to Greens Restaurant, of Whitby, and was presented by Gary Ledden of Crown Property Group.  For the second year running the Crown Spa Hotel in Scarborough was named the winner of the Hotel of the Year (35 bedrooms and more).  Crown Spa director Richard Frank said: 'This award is down to the huge effort put in by our team. I would like to thank them for helping up get this far.'The Hotel of the Year (up to 50 bedrooms) was presented to Lastingham Grange, in Lastingham after the mystery shopper said their only regret was not being able to stay longer.  The Sustainable Tourism Award went to Scarborough's Marine View, as judges said they were impressed not only its efforts to improve its sustainability but also to encourage its customers to be greener.  Owner of Marine View Ian Rees said: 'I am shocked and surprised to have won, especially considering the competition.'Doodlepots of Whitby scooped Tourism Retail of the Year, and the owner was presented her award by Michael Wicks of Barclays Bank.  Filey Museum celebrated a hat trick after it was named Visitor Attraction of the Year (under 50,000 visitors) for the third year running.  Honourary curator Margaret Wilkins said: 'I am absolutely thrilled, particularly for all our volunteers. I think it is great for everyone at the museum and great for Filey.'Visitor Attraction of the Year (more than 50,000 visitors) went to Castle Howard, which was described by the judges as a fun day out with something for everyone.  Vicky Pratt from the Pindar Group presented Pickering's 17 Burgate with the Outstanding Customer Service award. Scarborough Travel and Holiday Lodge were highly commended in the same category.  Tom and Anne Banks of Black Swan, in Oldstead, were over the moon to be walking away with the Pub of the Year award.  The Cafe Bar/Tearoom of the Year went to TeeHee in Easingwold, and Scarborough's Solid Rock Cafe was highly commended.  Judges praised the Solid Rock Cafe for its welcoming and varied menus.  Adventure Cottage in Whitby was named Self Catering Accommodation of The Year, and owner Margaret Hickman was presented with her award by Mark Proudfoot of the Proudfoot Group.  Another category to be dominated by Scarborough entries was the Caravan Park of the Year award which was presented to Jasmine Park, and saw Lebberston Touring Park highly commended along with Ladycross Plantation, of Egton.  Moorlands Country House, of Levisham scooped Guest Accommodation of the Year.   This year's special Outstanding Contribution to Tourism Award, which was last year awarded to Tony Peers, was last night presented to The Wight 'Herriot' Family, of The World of James Herriot. Jim Wight said: 'My father's intention wasn't to make lots of money, he just wanted to put Yorkshire on the map.'
