 St George bank machines - are the latest in a string of ATM explosions across Australia recently.  'Like the wild west': Bank job  Sports car used: High-power heist   The thieves pumped acetylene gas into the ATMs and ignited them, exploding them from the wall and blowing their cash boxes from the machines.  But their attempt to rob the Chatswood ATM in the city's north failed, when the machine didn't ignite about 4am.  Members of the public disturbed four men at the Railway Street ATM on Tuesday morning, police said   One of the thieves threatened a security guard with a firearm, but no shots were fired.   The bandits failed to make off with any cash and were last seen travelling along Railway St in a dark sedan, possibly a grey Audi.   They were also interrupted by railway security guards, who saw three men wearing balaclavas, armed with handguns.  Railway Street at Chatswood was closed for several hours while bomb squad officers investigated.  Bomb squad and fire crews spent over an hour securing the area surrounding the Chatswood ATM before it was cleared for safety at around 8.15am.  Traffic was diverted and passengers accessing bus stops at Railway St, Chatswood were diverted during the operation.  Forensics teams are still examining the site, accessing the targetted ATM via surrounding buildings.Police state crime command will take over investigations.  The three other ATMs destroyed by explosives were in Sydney's south-west - at Bullecourt Ave in Milperra at 2.30am, Hay St in Georges Hall at 2.50am , and Penshurst Ave in Penshurst at 3.10am.   The thieves escaped with money from only one successful raid - in Penshurst.   The Penshurst theft was the seventh successful attack on Sydney's ATMs in the past four months, police said.   Each of the ATMs belong to St George Bank, but police said there was nothing to suggest the institution's equipment was less secure than others. 'I don't think it is appropriate to at this stage to release the method of how some of these offences have been committed,' Assistant Commissioner David Hudson said. 'You can see from some of the damage caused to the ATMs that it's of significant concern to us the public safety aspect of it and the fact we solve this crime as soon as possible.' Police are calling for anyone with additional information to call Crime Stoppers on 1800 300 000.  What is this?   St George bank machines - are the latest in a string of ATM explosions across Australia recently. Add to MySpace 
