The Dubai-owned Neroli wins the Herald Sun Stakes, one of the main support races at Tuesday's race meeting. Dubai: The Dubai-owned Neroli compensated for the elimination of Godolphin hope All The Good from this year&amp;amp;apos;s Melbourne Cup by winning the Herald Sun Stakes, one of the main support races at Tuesday&amp;amp;apos;s race meeting.  His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, had been hoping to win the Melbourne Cup for the first time with All The Good.  But the horse was withdrawn just six days before the 3,200 metre race after suffering a serious leg-injury. But Neroli&amp;amp;apos;s triumph would have brought the smiles back to Shaikh Mohammad, who created the Godolphin stable, which has headquarters in Dubai and Newmarket.  This was the horse&amp;amp;apos;s fifth win from just nine starts after prevailing in the Herald Sun Stakes by a short-head from Jacqueline Rouge while Jewelled Gate finished in third.  McEvoy put Neroli into the race at the 400 metre mark and under a strong ride from McEvoy, who was previously based in Newmarket and Dubai and was Franki Dettori&amp;amp;apos;s deputy, the four-year-old eked out a win from a game Jacqueline Rogue.  The win came as Shaikh Mohammad launched a new association with trainer Peter Snowden in Australia.  Snowden has been handed the job of training more than 200 horses for Shaikh Mohammad after his Darley operation bought out the Australian bloodstock interest of the Ingham family last year.  Snowden praised Neroli&amp;amp;apos;s consistency after the event. He said: 'She&amp;amp;apos;s a very determined filly, she&amp;amp;apos;s done a great job. 'She&amp;amp;apos;s one of those fillies that just jumps out of the ground and just puts her hand up, she&amp;amp;apos;s very honest, she deserves everything she gets,' said the trainer Snowden. 'We had the perfect run, and she fought it out well,' added McEvoy. No sign of financial woes  Australians partied at a sun-drenched Melbourne Cup yesterday, pushing away concerns about the global financial crisis.  The mood at the race course was in sharp contrast to the country&amp;amp;apos;s central bankers who slashed interest rates in a frantic effort to save the nation from recession.  As the crowds enjoyed the day at the Flemington race course, Australia&amp;amp;apos;s Reserve Bank of Australia offered a more sobering scene in Sydney by delivering a grim assessment of the economy.  The central bank cut the cash rate, used by banks as the basis for various loans, by 75 basis points to 5.25 percent.  It also warned that a worsening global outlook and falling commodities prices pointed to weaker-than-expected activity and spending at home.  But scenes at Australia&amp;amp;apos;s most celebrated horse race suggested few cared.  Feathers in hair, his-and-hers matching suits resembling jockey silks, and haute couture were contrasted with the iconic tuxedo printed T-shirt complete with black and white high cut sneakers to convey the true laid-back Australian spirit.  The point for the 107,280 spectators was to embrace the race 'that stops the nation'. 'The true impact of the (financial) crisis hasn&amp;amp;apos;t quite hit us yet, that is what I can feel,' a multi-coloured garland wearing Sotiri Giannis said. 'It has had some impacts to some extent but I don&amp;amp;apos;t think we have had the full impact yet,' the Melbourne salesman added.  Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2007. All rights reserved. Provided by Syndigate.info an Albawaba.com company 
