National service: 'This is the proudest day of my life,' says Delon Armitage of his England call Photo:  England v Pacific Islands  Kick-off: 14:30; Twickenham Stadium, London  TV: Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports HD2  Radio: BBC Radio 5 Live Sports Extra (updates)   The London Irish full-back might have been wearing Gallic blue if an insensitive official had not told him that he was ''too small and too skinny'', after a trial for France Under-16s against Spain; a comment that almost caused Armitage to give up the game entirely.   Or it might have been the cricketing whites of England, or the footballing red of the Soca Warriors in his native Trinidad. 'Dwight Yorke was my hero as a kid,' Armitage said. 'I was a big football fan when I left the West Indies.' Armitage's background is not a traditional one, in keeping with several of his new England team-mates: fly-half Danny Cipriani, with a father from neighbouring Tobago, or the man alongside, Maori Riki Flutey from Wairarapa, or back-up hooker, Dylan Hartley, Rotorua-born of an English mother and New Zealand father.   The cosmopolitan mix reflects the ever-changing cast of the Guinness Premiership. Armitage, 24, has served his time, even if his ascent to the top began in more exotic locations. It might never have begun at all if his step-father, John, had not met his mother, Verna, on a Caribbean jaunt 18 years ago.   A brief spell in England thereafter was followed by a six-year stint in the south of France in the mid-nineties when John Armitage moved there for an IT post. Delon and his clutch of rugby-mad brothers played for Racing Club de Nice.   Delon stood out even then, for his pace and his athleticism. But not for his size. 'That was one of the biggest disappointments of my life when that was said to me,'' he confided. 'I was on the brink of giving up rugby altogether. But my dad told me to forget all about that, that he was taking us back to England and that one day I'd play for England instead.''   And that's just what will happen on Saturday, a significant day for a tight-knit, sport-accomplished family. Younger brother, Steffon, a flanker who is also at London Irish, is in the England Saxons squad while Bevon is on the books of Doncaster. Two younger siblings, Guy, 16, who is part of the London Irish Academy, and Joel, 13, are also budding talents. 'This is the proudest day of my life,'' Armitage said after the official team announcement. ''It's a dream come true. To play for England, at Twickenham, against the Pacific Islands. Wow. It's only just starting to sink in. I'm nervous now just talking about it.''   There is an admirable exuberance and energy about Armitage. It is part of his natural persona, one, though, that has had to be trimmed and shaped accordingly over the past 18 months. Simply put, the red mist and Armitage have been no strangers down the years. 'I've never known a back get so many yellow cards,'' said London Irish head coach, Toby Booth. 'Delon is very brash, very abrasive and won't take a backward step.''   Armitage, now a father to a young son himself, recognised that he had to curb his wilder instincts. 'It was a big-look-in-the-mirror time,' he said. 'I asked myself if I really wanted to get to the top level, and if I did, then I had to rein myself in. It was the reason I wasn't getting into squads. The club even dropped me. It's paid off, though''   It has, even if Armitage's swift promotion through the ranks owes much to the misfortune of others. Two full-backs, Mathew Tait and Bath's Nick Abendanon, have been ruled out through injury, allowing Martin Johnson to catapult Armitage into the front-line from outside the original 64-man England elite and Saxons squads.   England have tried eight players there Olly Morgan, Iain Balshaw, Tait, Josh Lewsey, Mark Cueto, Mike Brown, Jason Robinson and Abendanon in the last 18 months.   And now Armitage. His two London Irish team-mates, centre Seilala Mapusua and wing, Sailosi Tagicakibau, line up for the Pacific Islands. 'They've already promised that they'll be putting up high balls and coming for me,'' said Armitage.   Primed and waiting, no longer too small or too skinny.   Delon Armitage factfile   Born: Dec 15, 1983,   Club: London Irish  Position: Full back/centre  Height: 6ft 1in  Weight: 12st 8lbs  Representative Honours: England U19s, England U21s (2004 World Championships), England Saxons (2006 Barclays Churchill Cup, 2007 Barclays Churchill Cup v USA; 2008 Six Nations v Ireland A, Italy A) 
