Mid Michigan Destroyer General Manager, Jere Shockey announced today that Bay City native TJ Newsham will serve as the teams first head coach. Shockey also announced that Newsham will serve as Director of Basketball Operations. 'I have worked with Coach Newsham over the past year and his dedication and knowledge of the game is similar to what I had experienced in the CBA (Continental Basketball Association). He has a grasp on what the pro game means and how to develop the players on that level,' says Shockey. Newsham started out as a local youth coach before completing an internship at UCLA in 1998 and then moving on to Fairmont State University as a mens assistant coach before turning his attention to private training and development. He completed the Professional Basketball General Management and Scouting course in 2005 which led him to basketball positions offering statistical analysis to NBA and International teams. He has provided Pre-Draft feedback for web-based NBA Draft Experts.   But getting back into coaching has remained at the forefront of Newsham's desires. 'I love training and developing all of the JJKN Hoops players but to get back on the court is a fire that burns very deep. This is a great direction as it allows us to develop and train an extremely high level of basketball player right here in Bay City,' added Newsham. Also added to the coaching staff is Star Stevens who will serve as associate head coach. Stevens has three years professional playing experience including stints in the CBA and overseas. He is a former All-American point guard from U-W Parkside and a Saginaw native. He currently trains and assists players at all-levels (including Detroit Piston Lindsay Hunter). Shockey added, 'Star brings a high level of teaching but more importantly playing level to the team. He is still in great shape and could even step in to a playing role if needed. I have great confidence that our coaching staff will have these guys ready to compete every night.' " 
