A Welsh town has announced controversial plans to opt out of a compulsory scheme to translate documents from English into the native tongue, it emerged today.   Milford Haven Town Council said translating all its paperwork would be far too expensive - and unnecessary.  Currently all public bodies in Wales must ensure by law that Welsh and English are given equal footing on signs and documents.  But independent councillor Eric Harries says he and his colleagues have voted to seek an opt-out of the scheme, arguing that there are not enough Welsh speakers in Milford Haven to justify its cost.   Mr Harries said translating a single set of council minutes into Welsh would cost more than 400, with overall costs being astronomical.  He said: 'It's not needed and it's not wanted. And the money can be more appropriately spent on other services.   'I'm fully supportive of spending money on services that are needed, but not on services that are not needed or wanted.'  The last time Welsh language documents were requested from the town council was in 1995.   But Plaid Cymru councillor Rhys Sinnett said Welsh speakers in Milford Haven had a right under the Welsh Language Act to have services in their first language if they chose.   He said complaints about the cost of a scheme were a smokescreen used by those who opposed it in principle.   Mr Sinnett said Welsh speakers in the town had been disappointed by the council's vote and that it had exacerbated divisions between those who speak the Welsh language and those who do not.   Under the scheme rejected by the council, documents in Welsh would have to be provided only on demand, not as a matter of course.   Meri Huws, chair of the Welsh Language Board, said: 'The whole essence of this legislation is about promoting the language, promoting the use of the language within services across Wales.   'It's not a punitive measure, it's a positive measure.'   Milford Haven is not the only town voicing concerns to draw up a language scheme by the beginning of next month.  According to the Pembrokeshire Association of Local Councils (PALC), other bodies are also refusing to comply.   A spokesman said concerns about the cost of translations for councils were genuine and added that councils also feared leaving themselves open to legal action if there were mistakes in translation.   Translating signs and documents from English to Welsh does not always go smoothly.   Last month a council put up a Welsh-language road sign reading: 'I am not in the office at the moment'.  Swansea Council contacted its in-house translation service when designing a bilingual sign barring heavy goods vehicles from a road in the city's Morriston area.  But as the translator was not available, they received an automated e-mail response in Welsh saying: 'I am not in the office at the moment. Please send any work to be translated.'   Unaware of the real meaning of the message, officials had it printed on the sign under the English.   Earlier this year a high street bank was criticised after it rejected a cheque for a religious pilgrimage because it was written in Welsh.  The cheque, for almost 22,000, was supposed to pay for the travel and accommodation costs of a group of 50 pilgrims commemorating a Welsh saint who travelled to Spain almost 400 years ago.  But the trip was thrown into doubt after Barclays Bank refused to accept the cheque, made out to tour operator Tours for Churches, four times.  Hywel Williams, Plaid Cymru MP for Caernarfon, North Wales, said it highlighted the need for stricter laws on Welsh language rights.
