The latest employment numbers showed the economy added 34,300 jobs in October - much better than what economists were expecting - and the jobless rate held steady at 4.3 per cent.  It looked good on the surface, but there were signs that the rapid slowdown happening around the world was starting to bite here.  The number of full-time jobs posted back-to-back monthly declines for the first time since 2005, after dropping by 9,200 in October.  Also, those looking for full-time work increased by 10,200 in October.  The regional general manager of employment consulting company Right Management, Bridget Beattie, said downsizing had picked up significantly over the past few weeks.  Beattie said many firms had contemplated shedding staff over the last three to six months, but decided to hold off in order to hoard their talent in what was then considered a tight labour market. 'With what's happened in September and October in the global financial markets, all best are off now,' Beattie said. Beattie said the company was expecting a busy end to 2008 as it helped firms deal with the loss of staff and provided opportunities to those who had lost their jobs learn new skills. 'Initially it was happening in a few sectors, now it is happening in many,' Beattie said. Right Management's activity in December was expected to be four times bigger than December 2007, she said.  Major companies such as Ford, Optus, Boeing, Telstra and ANZ Bank have recently flagged their intentions to cut staff.  And News Corp added its name to a growing list on Thursday when its chairman and chief executive Rupert Murdoch flagged job cuts at its Australian operations.  A director at human resources company Talent2, John Banks, said the level of effect across the different industries was very patchy.  He said banking and financial services have been hit hard over the past few months with many staff let go, but demand for people with skills in the mining and electronics industry remained quite healthy. 'I know one company that still has 450 vacancies and it's very difficult for them to find certain skills,' Banks said. Banks said that in retail there was evidence of companies reducing staff, but the falling Australian dollar and likely increase in tourism would keep the top end of the market from suffering too badly.  It was also patchy across the states - Australia's biggest state, NSW, lost 13,000 jobs and its unemployment rate ballooned to 5.2 per cent.  On the positive side, Western Australia and Tasmania both posted a record low unemployment rate in October of 2.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively.  Banks said that in broad terms the labour market had softened. 'Generally speaking there are more candidates available,' Banks said. The number of part-time jobs jumped by 43,500 in October, which Banks said was a clear signal business still had a lot of work, but were using part-timers and contractors instead of full-time people.
