One of the odd things about the economy is we tend to explain whatever happens in purely local terms - Howard did this, Rudd did that, this caused that - but then we look up and discover what's happening here is remarkably similar to what's happening in the other English-speaking countries.  That's often the case in housing. Over the past 10 years house prices have roughly doubled in real terms, not just in Australia but also in New Zealand and Britain. And in the United States prices have risen by about half.  But here's a disturbing thought. Across the US, house prices have fallen 20 per cent since their peak in 2006. They're down 15 per in Britain. In Australia they're down about 3 per cent in the past six months. So does that mean they've got a lot further to fall?  A few economists - some more respected than others - have predicted that house prices will fall 30 per cent or more.  Were that to happen, it would be good news for first-home buyers but bad news for established home owners and disastrous for anyone obliged to sell up. If it happened over just a year or two it would scare the pants off most of us, prompting people to clamp their purses shut.  Fortunately, one of the sharpest of our business economists, Saul Eslake, chief economist of the ANZ Bank, is confident house prices won't fall very far, and he has some good arguments.  His main point is that, unlike the US and Britain, Australia doesn't have an excess supply of housing.  Every year a country with a growing population needs to build more houses. Young people leave home and form new households and immigrating families need somewhere to live.  But the Americans were building more new homes than required to meet this 'underlying demand', while the Brits have had a lot of their recent immigrants from Eastern Europe - the so-called Polish plumbers - pack up and go home. When the supply of homes exceeds the demand for them, it's not surprising to see prices fall.  By contrast, in recent years in Australia we've been building fewer houses than needed to keep up with the formation of new households. That's partly because we've had such high levels of immigration.  It's because we've been getting more new households than there are units and houses to accommodate them that rents have been rising so strongly.  Last year people were trying to tell us rents were rising because landlords were passing on higher interest rates.  I never believed that. Rents rise when landlords can get away with raising them. If I'm right, rents will continue rising, even though interest rates have fallen sharply in the past two months and have further to fall.
