Borrowers have been warned not to expect the full impact of the 1.5 percentage point cut in interest rates announced yesterday to be passed on by lenders.  The reduction from 4.5% to 3% was the biggest since 1981 and left the base rate at its lowest level since 1955.  But Gordon Brown's appeal to Britain's banks to pass the full cut on to struggling mortgage-holders had little impact last night.  The immediate response of around 30 lenders was to pull their range of tracker loans, which automatically move up and down in line with the Bank of England's base rate, for repricing. Among those who have withdrawn the deals for new customers are major groups such as Halifax, Nationwide, Abbey, Barclays' lending arm the Woolwich, and Lloyds TSB.  A number of other lenders had previously increased their tracker rates by up to 0.8 points before yesterday's base-rate reduction.  Analysts warned few mortgage lenders would heed the Prime Minister's call; only two, Lloyds TSB and Abbey, said they were reducing their standard variable-rate mortgages by the full amount.  For their borrowers, this means average monthly payments on a 150,000 mortgage will fall by around 138. The British Bankers' Association warned the reduction in the base rate would not automatically lead to lower funding costs for lenders themselves.  The problem for them is that the key inter-bank lending rate three-month Libor, upon which many variable rate mortgage deals are based, remains stubbornly high.  Adrian Coles, of the Building Societies Association, noted: 'Borrowers looking for new fixed-rate deals or homeowners with mortgages linked to money market rates will not necessarily find their mortgage rates decreasing.' Karen Barrett from mortgage adviser website Impartial.co.uk, added: 'With Libor rates falling slowly but not keeping pace with Bank of England base rates, we expect to see very few lenders pass on the full cut to their borrowers.' The huge rate cut in the Bank of England base rate stunned stock markets and experts predicted the rate could reach an all-time low of 1.5% by mid-2009 as desperate attempts are made to ward off a prolonged slump.  The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee said it had made such a dramatic cut because there had been a 'very marked deterioration in the outlook for economic activity at home and abroad' and that there was a 'substantial risk' of undershooting its 2% inflation target.  The drastic move sent the FTSE-100 Index into a tailspin as it hammered home the growing prospect of a prolonged recession, with more than 62bn wiped off the value of the UK's biggest companies.  George Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, said the extent of the cut underlined the serious economic trouble ahead for the UK, noting: 'This is a shot in the arm for the economy but it shows how sick the patient is.' Initial reaction to the reduction was positive. The British Retail Consortium said: 'This is the kind of shock tactic that could get the economy's heart beating again.' CBI Scotland said it was a 'bold move' that would provide welcome relief to businesses and enable banks to pass on the benefits to customers.  The STUC echoed this, saying a gradualist approach to base-rate cuts was 'no longer appropriate given the exceptional economic challenges currently facing the UK economy' and urged the banks to pass on the cut.  This sentiment was underscored strongly at Westminster. Having repeatedly said that consumers should 'benefit' from base-rate cuts, the Prime Minister's spokesman was asked directly if Mr Brown believed the banks should now pass on the reduction in full. He replied: 'Yes. The Prime Minister supports the view that banks should pass on these cuts.' Yesterday's Libor rate, which was announced before interest rates were cut, was 5.56%, 2.56 points above the new official cost of borrowing. 
