THE Reserve Bank has cut its forecasts to reflect a faster fall in the value of Australia's exports, prompting predictions that the ailing Australian dollar will remain in the doldrums.  Yesterday's quarterly statement on monetary policy from the bank said a decline in the terms of trade - the prices of exports relative to imports - would be larger than previously expected because of plunging commodity prices. Earlier this year the terms of trade reached their highest level since the 1950s, helping the dollar to within a whisker of parity with the greenback at US98.49c in July.  Analysts said the pessimistic predictions - which also included a 0.5 percentage point downgrade in expected yearly growth to December to 1.5 per cent - suggested the dollar's recent range of US60c to US70c would continue.  'I get the sense from reading the statement that the global outlook has definitely deteriorated, and that would argue for a dollar being lower than its long-term average of around US72c over the period ahead,' Tony Morriss, the chief currency strategist at the ANZ Bank, said.  'Our domestic economy has been so heavily impacted by strong global demand for commodities over the past five years, and that factor going into reverse is quite significant.'  Growth in Australia's trading partners would fall from 3.75 per cent this year to 2.25 per cent next year, the report said. This would cause prices of our two biggest exports - iron ore and coal - to fall 'significantly' from this year's record highs.  The foreign exchange strategist at Deutsche Bank, John Horner, said markets were now assessing the effects of government plans to pump money into economies around the world to ward off a protracted slowdown.  'At these levels there is a good deal of bad news priced into the exchange rate, but we think that even relative to expectations we will continue to get poor news, which should see the dollar testing the US60c level,' Mr Horner said.  The Reserve said the dollar's fall would help to insulate the economy from the global slowdown because it made exporting firms more competitive and reduced the impact of lower commodity prices, which are set in US dollars.  But economists at ABN Amro, Kieran Davies and Felicity Emmett, have questioned this logic. In an assessment of the recent plunge in Australia's and New Zealand's dollars, they say the currencies look more like barometers of the market's growth expectations than separate influences on growth.  The dollar closed at US68.50c, compared to US67.04c on Friday.  
