: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Clinton Porteous and Emma Chalmers  BRISBANE is bearing the brunt of an Australia-wide housing slump as the big banks were refusing to guarantee passing on interest rate cuts to consumers.  The major lenders last night were refusing to promise they would pass on in full today's expected official interest rate cut.  The refusal brought an angry response from consumer groups and sets up a showdown with the Federal Government.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd warned yesterday he would not tolerate banks not passing on the full amount.  'We would expect the commercial banks to pass through any official cut in interest rates as rapidly as possible,' he said.  Treasurer Wayne Swan warned the banks would need a 'good explanation' if they did not pass on any rate cut rapidly and in full.  Nicole Rich of the Consumer Action Law Centre said customers would be going backwards if the banks did not come to the party. 'If they do not pass it on in full, it is effectively a rate rise,' she said.  The Reserve Bank today is almost certain to cut the cash rate by at least 0.5 per cent after the release of a wave of grim economic data.  Retail spending has dropped, job advertisements have fallen and the national housing market is going backwards.  Home prices in Brisbane fell 3.3 per cent in the September quarter - almost double the national fall of 1.8 per cent.  Leading economist Gerard Minack, of Morgan Stanley, is predicting house prices could plunge 25 per cent in the next two years, with Brisbane leading the fall.  'We already knew Brisbane was under pressure because there has been such horribly low auction clearance rates and that is a sign that there is worse to come,' he said.  National Australia Bank'schief economist Rob Henderson said things were so bad households were buying less on their weekly food shop.  The number of newspaper and internet job advertisements also fell for the sixth consecutive month.  Shadow treasurer Julie Bishop said the banks had to pass on any rate cut in full after the Government's guarantee on deposits.  But ANZ Bank chief Mike Smith refused to guarantee any rate cut would be passed on in full, saying the bank would deliver 'as much' as possible.  A National Australia Bank spokeswoman also declined to give a guarantee and the Commonwealth Bank is saying only it wants to remain 'competitive'.  Last month the Reserve slashed rates by 1 per cent and the big banks initially only cut their standard variable home loan rates by 0.8 per cent.  In one bright spot for consumers, there are predictions petrol prices will fall 10 cents a litre over the next two weeks.  
