THE Federal Government expects growth to slow to 2 per cent in 2008/09 and unemployment to rise to 5 per cent next year as Australia feels the full effect of the global financial crisis  The Government has slashed its Budget surplus forecast for 2008/09 to $5.4 billion, from $21.7 billion in the May Budget.  In its Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO) released today the Government also cut its gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast to 2.0 per cent, from a previous forecast of 2.75 per cent.  It also cut its GDP growth forecast for 2009/10 to 2.25 per cent, from 3.0 per cent.  Australia's unemployment rate is expected to rise to 5 per cent by June next year, from a previous forecast of 4.75 per cent.  The unemployment rate is expected to rise to 5.75 per cent by June 2010.  Treasurer Wayne Swan said the Budget has felt the full force of the global financial crisis.  'Global economic conditions have changed dramatically in recent months as the global financial crisis has entered a dangerous, new phase,'' he said.  'In the face of the these major challenges arising from the global financial crisis, the Government is continuing to budget for surpluses in 2008/09 and across the forward estimates.  'However, the Budget surplus projections are clearly much lower than forecast at the time of the May Budget and reflect the dramatic impact, particularly from 2009/10 onwards, of the recent escalation in the global financial crisis.''  The Government says it is now expecting a Budget surplus of $3.6 billion in 2009/10, down from an earlier forecast of $19.7 billion.  Employment is expected to grow by 1.25 per cent in 2008/09, as previously expected. But is then expected to slow to 0.75 per cent in 2009/10.  Mr Swan said the global financial crisis will cut tax receipts by around $40 billion over the forward estimates than anticipated at the time of the May Budget.  'The first point that I want to make is that there's no point in trying to sugar-coat these figures,'' Mr Swan said.  'The global financial crisis has smashed a $40 billion hole in the budget.''  If international conditions deteriorated further, there could be more bad news to come, he said.  However, growth would remain 'solid''.  'This is slower growth but it is solid growth, given the international circumstances,'' Mr Swan said.  'These revisions also reflect the substantial negative impacts on company profits of the credit market turmoil, weaker global growth, and from 2009-10, falling terms of trade.  'While Australia is clearly not immune from the effects of the global financial crisis and the global downturn, we are better placed than most other countries to withstand the fallout.  'The Government remains prepared to take the tough decisions necessary to protect our economy during the global financial crisis, and to implementing our long term agenda in the most responsible way.''  Weaker global growth would impact particularly on Australian jobs, Mr Swan said.  'The employment numbers in MYEFO do show that there will be pain in the community.''  Other countries were facing recession and Budget deficits.  'Australia is still forecasting modest growth and modest surpluses.''  The Government had made some funding decisions since the May Budget which had impacted on the surplus, but these were relatively small, Mr Swan said.  He cited extra drought assistance and decisions to list certain drugs on the PBS as examples.  The dramatic change in the surplus was almost all due to the global financial crisis and not Government funding decisions.  'Almost all of the decrease in the surplus beyond 2008/09 is due to massive reductions in revenue associated with the global financial crisis,'' he said.  Mr Swan said today's figures make it pretty clear that the economy was 'crying out'' for the fiscal boost of $10.4 billion, previously announced by the Government, and had been backed up by an easing of monetary policy from the Reserve Bank of Australia.  'Had we not acted decisively, economic growth would have been much weaker than currently forecast, with all of the flow on in impacts on employment.''  
