The green light is on for the Reserve Bank to slash interest rates by 100 basis points next month, with a global economic slowdown, a tough outlook for exports and collapsing inflation, according to bank economists.  ASB Bank economists say there is a need for a cut of one percentage point - larger than it previously expected - with a worsening global picture making life tougher for New Zealand exports.  The picture is increasingly gloomy for New Zealand's big trading partners in Europe and the United States. World oil prices fell more than 1 percent on Friday after news of a euro zone recession and figures showing a record decline in US retail sales, down almost 3 percent in October.  The global financial crisis means banks are still not able to borrow overseas.  The outlook is also getting worse for the economies of New Zealand's main trading partners such as Australia and a severe slowdown in China's industrial output recently. Mining giant BHP said it had lost $600 million in expected iron sales to China in the second half of the year.  The best course of action was to bring forward interest rate cuts, ASB said, especially when confidence is fragile.  Bank of New Zealand is also joining a growing number of economists expecting the official cash rate to be cut from 6.5 percent to 5.5 percent on December 4.  BNZ said that is possible because slumping oil and commodity prices are expected to keep inflation flat for the next six months. The 100 basis point cut by the Reserve Bank last month led to an average 85 point cut in mortgage rates by big banks.  One year fixed rates fell slightly less, to just above 8 per cent.  BNZ has just lowered its forecast track of expected interest rates and now expects official cash rates to go as low as 4.5 per cent by the middle of next year - a 10-year low.  Overall prices are expected to be almost flat in the next six months. As a result, annual inflation will come close to the low edge of the Reserve Bank's 1 per cent to 3 per cent target band by late next year.  Inflation hit 5.1 per cent in the September year, but is expected to tumble mainly because of a huge fall in oil prices.  Oil was about US$55 a barrel last week, down from almost US$150 in July. Not all of the fall in oil prices has translated to the pump price because of the offsetting dive in the Kiwi dollar.  However, petrol prices have fallen 65c a litre to about $1.55. As well, world dairy prices are falling, and dairy product prices in supermarkets are expected to fall too.  Even though the Kiwi dollar has fallen from a peak of more than US80c early this year to as low as US55c recently, BNZ does not think that will mean a big jump in import prices.  In times of weak demand, businesses will bear the burden of higher import costs, it said.  Latest retail sales figures out last week showed overall volumes fell almost 1 percent in the September quarter.  New car importers are expected to increase prices because of a lower Kiwi dollar, but by less than 5 percent.  Next Story: Retailers pin hopes on holiday jingle  
