The reductions take effect today.  The state bank said it would cut the benchmark rate that guides deposit and lending interest rates by 1 percent to 11 percent, its third rate cut in four weeks. Commercial banks will be allowed to set interest rates on dong loans at a maximum of 50 percent above the benchmark rate, which will be 16.5 percent per year.  The central bank also announced it would cut the compulsory reserve on banks' dong deposits by 2 percent. "The rate cut and compulsory reserves reduction are aimed at preventing the negative impact of the global financial crisis and economic recession," the State Bank of Vietnam said in a statement.  The discount rate used by the central bank to buy debt from banks would be cut to 10 percent from 11 percent and the refinancing rate would drop to 12 percent from 13 percent. The central bank uses the refinancing rate to lend to banks.  Last month the government estimated the economy would grow 6.7 percent in 2008, down from its projections of as high as 9 percent.  In addition, banks would be required from Friday to set aside 8 percent on non-term dong deposits and those with terms of less than 12 months instead of 10 percent now, the central bank said.  The ratio for compulsory reserves on deposits with maturities of 12 months or longer would be lowered to 2 percent from 4 percent. Lower reserve requirements against banks' deposits help them cut fundraising costs and could lead to more rate cuts.  State-run BIDV, Vietnam's second-largest bank, said it was slashing dong lending rates by about 1 percentage point Thursday in an effort to help businesses. Saigon Thuong Tin Commercial Joint Stock Bank, 10 percent owned by ANZ, told Thanh Nien Daily that it would also lower its lending interest rate from 18 percent per year to 14-16 percent per year. The new rates will take effect today.  The central bank raised the base rate three times between February and June to contain inflation, which approached an annual rate of 30 percent before easing to an estimated 26.7 percent in October.  In related news, five-year bonds gained a second day after news about the central bank's key rate cut, according to Bloomberg.  The yield on the five-year notes trimmed 1 basis point to 11.93 percent. It reached 11.90 percent on November 17, the lowest since May 9, according to a daily fixing price from 10 banks compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Source: TN, Reuters The State Bank of Vietnam will slash the key rate and lower the bank reserve requirement to shield the economy from the global financial meltdown, according to a statement on the central bank's website Thursday.
