7 hours 4 mins ago  Sky News  A flurry of mortgage lenders including the UK's biggest, Halifax, have said they will be passing on the 1.5% interest rate cut in full to their customers. Skip related content  Lloyds TSB and Abbey, the first off the mark, were then followed by Scottish Widows, Nationwide, RBS and NatWest, making a total of seven.  It comes after Chancellor Alistair Darling renewed his call for banks to drop their mortgage rates 'as quickly as possible'.  Mr Darling made the plea at a breakfast meeting with banking chiefs at the Treasury.  Gordon Brownhas welcomed the banks' decision to pass the rate cut on to their customers.  Speaking in Brussels, the Prime Minister said: 'Yesterday, we saw decisive action on interest rates from the Bank of England and the European Central Bank.  'I welcome the fact that a number of British banks have now decided to pass on the interest rate cut to customers, to families and to businesses.'  Pressure has been growing on lenders since The Bank of England unexpectedly slashed the base rate by 1.5% to 3% - its lowest level in 53 years.  Hopes the cut would be passed on rose with the news that Libor - the interbank lending rate - had fallen to its lowest level in four years.  So far seven lenders have said their customers will enjoy the full benefit of the cut - LLoyds TSB, Abbey, Scottish Widows, the UK's biggest building society Nationwide, RBS, Natwest and Halifax.  HSBC and Barclays are among those who have yet to make an announcement.  Analysts said the matter had been complicated by Libor remaining stubbornly high.  However, the key three-month rate is now down to 4.49%, the lowest since May 2004.  After the rate cut, around 30 lenders pulled their tracker loans, which automatically move up and down in line with the base rate.  Jonathan Davis, director of financial advisors Armstrong Davis, said: 'What you have to remember is the banks nationally and globally have lost hundreds of billions, if not trillions, of pounds.  'Most of the banks will cut their variable rates but I'm not sure if they are going to cut them the whole 1.5%.'  Among the 30 who withdrew their tracker deals yesterday were Halifax, Nationwide, Abbey, Barclays' lending arm the Woolwich and Lloyds TSB.  A number of other lenders had previously increased their tracker rates by up to 0.8% ahead of the rate cut.  
