The banking union has called on Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Treasurer Wayne Swan to step in to save jobs at ANZ amid fears that 10,000 could go in the banking sector over the next 18 months.  The Finance Sector Union (FSU) said as many as 3,000 jobs at ANZ could go before Christmas but this was denied by the bank on Friday.  FSU national secretary Leon Carter said ANZ was acting heartlessly and believed new chief executive Mike Smith was just trying to make his mark. 'We have seen Westpac and St George get together yesterday and we conservatively estimate that at least 5,000 jobs will disappear out of those two banks,' Mr Carter said. 'If you add the speculation about ANZ, then in the next 12-18 months up to 10,000 jobs will disappear out of the banking sector.' The big five banks, Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, ANZ, National Australia Bank and St George employ around 125,000 people globally.  ANZ has a permanent staff of around 37,000 as well as another 9,000 contractors.  Mr Carter said the federal government, which has placed a guarantee on all bank savings in Australia as the global credit crisis continues, should demand that no jobs go. 'It's time for the treasurer and the prime minister come out and say 'we're doing the right thing by banks, it's time the banks did the right thing by customers and their workers',' Mr Carter said. 'It is completely unacceptable, and if the treasurer and the prime minister, who did the right thing in responding to the banks' calls, think that this is an acceptable response to that, then we will be very disappointed.' ANZ, which last month announced an annual net profit of $3.32 billion, a 21 per cent fall, said there were no plans to sack 10 per cent of its workforce. 'The speculation is wrong,' ANZ spokesman Paul Edwards told AAP. 'We announced in September that we would have a new structure with fewer middle management roles although it will leave customer-serving roles largely unaffected. 'These plans are now beginning to crystallise, and it's inevitable there will be some jobs lost - this is happening across the sector and is in part a response to the softening economic environment. 'What we are undertaking is a significant belt-tightening exercise over the coming weeks and months - the focus is on middle management roles - but at this stage it's not possible to be more definitive on numbers,' Mr Edwards said. Last month ANZ said its costs jumped 10 per cent in fiscal 2008 and it expected to spend $100 million on job cuts, a corporate restructure and process changes that would result in annual costs being slashed by $200 million from 2010.
