WESTPAC and National Australia Bank have cut variable home loan rates in response to the Reserve Bank's official rate cut yesterday.  Westpac cut its variable rate by 65 basis points to 7.71 per cent, while National Australia Bank slashed rates by 62 basis points to 7.74 per cent.  Commonwealth Bank cut its rate immediately after the RBA decision yesterday afternoon - by 58 basis points to 7.74 per cent - prompting Treasurer Wayne Swan to express his disappointment the 75 basis cut was not passed on in full.  The official central bank rate is now at 5.25 per cent.  Mr Swan yesterday urged banks to think of their customers and pass on the latest official interest rate cut in full.  'There have been cuts in the official rate of 200 basis points in the last couple of months and all of those have been passed on prior to this latest 75 basis point cut.'  'I would hope that all banks think of their customers and pass on this latest cut in full.'  NAB, ANZ and St George are yet to announce any reduction in home loan rates.  The Reserve Bank yesterday spectacularly endorsed the Federal Government's spend-to-survive approach, slashing official interest rates by three quarters of a percentage point yesterday.  South Australian homeowners with a typical $250,000 loan would have their monthly repayments reduced by only $96, rather than $124 if the bank had passed on the full 75 basis point cut.  With the Melbourne Cup distracting the corporate world yesterday, the other banks did not announce how much of the cut they would pass on.  BankSA general manager Chris Ward said: ''Following the RBA's decision, we are now in a clearer position to take this move into consideration along with a number of other variables that affect interest rates, such as the long and short-term costs of funding and local market conditions.''  As with the Government's recently announced $10.4 billion stimulus package, the RBA wants the money saved by borrowers to be spent to stimulate economic growth.  The RBA may not be done yet, hinting at another cut before Christmas, if required.  Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens said: ''The board will continue to monitor developments and make adjustments as needed to promote sustainable growth.'' Economists expect more cuts to come.  Compare rates using the Infochoice, Cannex and Mozo websites.  Lower rates are not the only good news. SA's housing market is out-performing the rest of the nation, registering good gains as other states have slowed.  Petrol is also expected drop by as much as 10c a litre in coming weeks. But the good news on interest rates is a sign the economy is faltering.  And with international bank-to-bank lending costs still fluctuating, there is no certainty banks will pass on the full benefits immediately.  If passed on in full, a 75 basis point cut would take about $124 off the monthly mortgage repayments of the average South Australian home loan of $250,000 over 25 years.  Another cut of 25 to 50 basis points is possible before Christmas, analysts say.  The cuts are expected as the economy showed further signs of a dramatic slowdown yesterday as the global financial crisis continues to bite.  The ANZ's job advertisement survey has suffered a massive 34 per cent slump over this time last year.  The Australian Industry Group's Performance of Manufacturing fell to its lowest level since 1992 prompting widespread fears of a significant leap in the jobless rate.  The Federal Government said it was hoped the banks would pass on the full amount of any interest rate cut.  'We would expect the commercial banks to pass through any official cut in interest rates as rapidly as possible,' Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd said.  Treasurer, Wayne Swan was similarly firm. Nationally, house prices dropped by 2 per cent in the past three months  their first fall in three years.  However, South Australia bucked the trend, leading the nation with a strong annual growth of 9.7 per cent.  Mr Swan said the Government was determined to manage the economy in such a way as to promote growth.  
