Article from: Gold Coast Bulletin  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  THE Reserve Bank has gone on its biggest rate cut rampage in 25 years as it desperately tries to stop the nation plunging into recession.  Official interest rates were slashed by 0.75 per cent yesterday as Treasurer Wayne Swan prepares to reveal a $10 billion-a-year black hole in Budget revenue.  Mr Swan is expected today to unveil the Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook, showing the extent of the damage unleashed on the nation's coffers.  The Reserve Bank gave a taste of what is to come when it admitted the global meltdown was causing more damage than ever predicted.  'On balance it appears likely that spending and activity will be weaker than earlier expected,' said Reserve Governor Glenn Stevens.  Yesterday's rate cut effectively delivered a 2 per cent cut in the past two months.  But long-suffering householders will not enjoy the full benefit of the rate drop.  The Commonwealth Bank yesterday was the only bank to announce a rate reduction and it is refusing to cut home loan rates by the full amount.  The nation's biggest home loan lender announced it was passing on less than 80 per cent of the cash rate cut by dropping home loan rates 0.58 per cent.  This means Commonwealth Bank customers will pay $115 a month less on a standard $300,000 loan, but the savings could have been $148 month if the full amount had been passed on.  Mr Swan criticised the Commonwealth for not doing more to help consumers.  'I'm disappointed to see that the Commonwealth Bank could only come through with 58 basis points out of the 75,' he said. 'I'd certainly like to see the rest of that passed through as quickly as possible.'  Westpac, the National Australia Bank and the ANZ are all yet to announce when and by how much they will cut their interest rates.  Shadow Treasurer Julie Bishop has accused Mr Swan and Kevin Rudd of going soft on the banks.  'The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have become captive to the interests of the banks, leaving it up to the big four to decide when and by how much they pass on any cut,' she said.  Yesterday's rate cut, together with cash rate cuts in September and October, represents the biggest percentage drop in the cash rate since 1983, and the official interest rates are now at 5.25 per cent.  The Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook today is expected to show growth dropping sharply, unemployment blowing out, and revenue dropping by as much as $10 billion a year.  It is likely revenue for this financial year will plunge $6 billion and almost $10 billion next financial year.  'It is almost inevitable we will be looking at a Budget deficit for 2009-10,' said AMP Capital economist Shane Oliver.  The Budget surplus for 2008-9 was predicted to be almost $22 billion but this has been savaged by the Government's $10 billion rescue package and a multibillion-dollar write-down on capital gains tax and company tax receipts.  
