Shoppers will have a little more jingle in their pockets for Christmas, maybe $80 a week, but the extra cash may mean only a mild bounce from a tough time for retailers - not time to pop the champagne corks.  Statistics New Zealand figures showed total retail sales volumes fell 0.9 per cent in the September quarter - the third quarterly fall in a row in what has been the worst slowdown for retailers since the 1991 recession.  Wellington is one of the few regions to show rising sales in the past two quarters, though the gain in the September quarter was a mild 0.3 per cent.  Sales in the rest of the North Island went backwards in the same period.  Statistics NZ figures for the September quarter showed vehicle sales were again the weak link - hit in the past year by high petrol prices and a shift to smaller and cheaper cars.  Vehicle sales were down 3 per cent in the September quarter and down more than 13 per cent on a year ago. Because of rising prices, especially for food, overall sales were effectively flat for the three months, down just 0.1 per cent.  Retailers Association chief executive John Albertson said the sales figures were as flat as expected. 'But it is not as bad as it might have been,' he said.  Much cheaper petrol, lower interest rates and tax cuts were all putting more money back into pockets, just before Christmas. 'That will help stem the tide in retail,' he said.  The average household may be as much as $30 a week better off with lower petrol prices, up to $28 from October's tax cuts and a bit more from recent cuts to interest rates. That could add up to $70 to $80 a week more, he said.  The Reserve Bank is expected to slash official interest rates another 1 per cent on December 4, giving borrowers another confidence boost, just days before the peak shopping period.  ASB Bank said the Reserve Bank had little to lose from cutting rates 100 basis points when confidence was fragile.  Mr Albertson said Christmas would not be brilliant but would not be all doom and gloom either.  Some retailers were finding things tough and offering big discounts to get sales.  Some economists think the worst of the retail shock may be over. Bank of New Zealand expects sales volumes to rise 0.5 per cent in the December quarter, with improving consumer confidence.  However, shop sales have been boosted in the past by the house-price boom making people feel richer. Now a 15 per cent bust is only halfway through, according to the Reserve Bank.  UBS Bank senior economist Robin Clements said it was hard to be optimistic about retailing with house prices and wealth falling, but tax cuts and lower petrol prices should avoid another sales fall in the December quarter.  Westpac Bank economists warned that by early next year consumers may retreat again because of an expected rise in unemployment and further falls in house prices.  
