Vehicle sales in the United States tumbled to multi-decade lows in October as tightened credit markets and an economic slowdown kept consumers away from dealerships.  General Motors on Monday reported an incredible 45 percent decline in its sales, and Chrysler said its sales were down 35 percent. The Ford Motor Company said it sold 30.2 percent fewer cars and trucks.  Toyota Motor said its sales were 23 percent lower, despite offering no-interest financing and large discounts on many models. Sales were down 33 percent at Nissan and 25.2 percent at Honda.  If you adjust for population growth, this is probably the worst industry sales month in the post-World War II era, Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s vice president for sales in North America, said in a statement. We believe there is considerable pent-up demand from the last three years, but until the credit markets open up and consumer confidence improves, the entire U.S. economy, and any industry like autos that relies on financing, will suffer.  G.M. said it would begin its year-end red tag sale on Tuesday, a month sooner than usual, while Toyota extended its no-interest loan offers until the end of November. People who do want to buy a car will find a plethora of good deals, but the automakers are finding that many potential customers are more interested in saving their money.  Buyers are in the drivers seat in a market thats awash with good deals, strong values and new products, said the Toyota division general manager, Bob Carter.  The dismal sales numbers are likely to result in more down time at some plants. Ford indicated that it plans to cut production of cars fell 27.1 percent and crossover vehicles declined 37.1 percent. Ford and other manufacturers rushed to increase car and crossover production earlier this year as truck sales plummeted but now find inventories of those vehicles growing as the entire market declines.  Sales were down 31 percent at Hyundai and 25 percent at Mercedes. Volkswagen, which introduced several new models in October, reported a 7.9 percent decline.  Analysts estimated that total industry sales fell more than 30 percent compared with October a year ago, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of about 11 million vehicles.  The all-time low level of consumer confidence in October was reflected in particularly poor showroom traffic, Brian A. Johnson, an analyst with Barclays Capital, wrote in a report to clients.  G.M. and Chrysler, which are involved in merger discussions as they rapidly deplete their cash reserves, were expected to fare the worst in October. New restrictions by the two companys respective lending arms, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation and Chrysler Financial, have significantly hindered sales. G.M.A.C. now offers financing only to consumers with credit scores of at least 700, which excludes 42 percent of Americans, and Chrysler Financial no longer offers leases.  Automakers have had difficulty attracting customers for much of the year, but September and October were particularly challenging given the chaos in the financial markets. Fewer than one million vehicles were sold in September, the first time that happened since February 1993.  Sales have continued to fall even as gasoline prices fall sharply, to less than $2 a gallon in some states. Sales of profitable trucks and S.U.V.s have rebounded to become about 14 percent of the market in October, up from 8.6 percent in May when gasoline was selling for about $4 a gallon.  But small cars remain popular, as consumers look for vehicles that not only are more efficient but cost less up front.  Gas prices are not the be-all, end-all explanation that predicts what people are going to buy, said Fords chief sales analyst, George Pipas. Some people who really need or really want a truck are back into the market now because they were just sitting on the sidelines.  Over all, Pipas described October as similar to what weve seen after a natural disaster, with consumers putting off major purchases until the economy settles down.  Intellpuke: You can read this article by New York Times writer Nick Bunkley, reporting from New York City, N.Y., in context here: www.nytimes.com/2008/11/04/business/04auto.html?hp  
