Home lending rates are expected to hit a two-year low this week, with financial markets predicting the Reserve Bank will announce a 0.5 percentage point cut in official interest rates tomorrow in its fight to stave off a recession.   Markets believe the Reserve will cut official rates to 6.5 per cent, which if passed on to customers by the commercial banks, will take the standard variable home loan rate down to about 7.8 per cent.   Standard variable mortgage rates were last that low in late 2006.   Markets are predicting a 75 per cent chance that the Reserve board, which meets tomorrow morning, may be even bolder and cut rates by 0.75 percentage points.   Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the Reserve would deliver a 0.5 percentage point cut because it was keen to avoid a recession, which Australia last experienced in 1990-91.   Unemployment hit 10.9 per cent then. The jobless rate did not drop back to 5.6 per cent until mid-2004.   It took nearly 12 years to undo the damage to the labour market that was inflicted over a relatively brief period " that is a recession and the scenario that the authorities will be earnestly seeking to avoid, he said.   Financial markets have fully priced in cuts totalling 0.7 percentage points by years end, although much depends on whether banks pass on tomorrows expected rate reduction in full.   Assistant Treasurer Chris Bowen signalled yesterday that the Government would again not put any pressure on the banks to pass on in full any interest rate cut to mortgage holders.   Our position is clear: the banks should pass on as much as they can of any increase at any time, he said.   After last months one percentage point cut, banks delivered an initial cut of 0.8 percentage points, citing high borrowing costs on domestic and international markets.   However, within a fortnight those borrowing costs had fallen. Banks have now passed on the remaining 0.2 percentage points, although mortgage rates from the big four are still at least 0.5 percentage points higher than justified by movements in the official cash rate this year.   There is still much debate among economists about how Australia will be affected by the global economic crisis.   Commonwealth Bank chief economist Michael Blythe said the combination of falling interest rates and petrol prices plus the Governments $10.4 billion stimulus package meant the overall economy was still in good shape.   While the major economies of the US, Japan and Europe were struggling, growth was still good in countries of even more direct importance to Australia.   Some of the current concerns about a commodity price collapse look overdone,' he said. The Australian Bureau of Statistics will release figures today that show a fall of up to 0.5 percentage points in house prices nationally over the past quarter, while building approval and job figures due out later in the week are expected to show a slowdown.   However, perhaps the most important economic event this week will be the US presidential election on Wednesday, WA time.   AMP Capital chief economist Shane Oliver said not only would a change in the White House bring relief but the favoured Democrats had proved better at boosting the sharemarket than the Republicans. 
