 Alistair Darling had to call in the heads of Britain's biggest high street banks to a Downing Street meeting where he 'read them the riot act' Photo: PA Some banks' call centres were jammed, unable to cope with the surge of customers trying to take advantage of the best deals before they disappear from the market.   Last night, there were still savings products available offering a return of 6 per cent or more - twice the base rate - but experts predicted the majority would be pulled or repriced within days.   Personal finance websites reported double the number of people clicking on their savings page compared to a normal day.   Martin Lewis, financial campaigner and founder of the consumer website MoneySavingExpert, said: 'I've never seen anything like it. There has been an enormous interest from our members about what savings rates they can get hold of. That's because there has never been a scenario when you could lock in your savings at a rate of more than double the Bank of England base rate. 'But customers are going to have act unbelievably fast. By next week there will not be many available.' The rush came amid warnings that savers would be hit hard by Thursday's surprise interest rate cut of 1.5 percentage points, which brought the base rate down from 4.5 per cent to a 53-year low of 3 per cent.   National Savings and Investments (NS&amp;amp;I), the Government-backed savings accounts, was among the first to signal it would be reducing rates for savers in the wake of the move, It announced it was slashing the returns on one of its popular savings products by 1.5% with immediate effect.   The immediate cuts in savings rates came despite the major banks dragging their heels over whether to pass on the interest rate cut to homeowners.   Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, had to call in the heads of Britain's biggest high street banks to a Downing Street meeting yesterday morning where he 'read the riot act' about their failure to guarantee that the rate cut would be passed to borrowers.   Within a few hours all but two of the major banks Barclays and HSBC promised to pass on the full cut to mortgage customers on standard variable rates.   However, banks continued to pull their popular tracker mortgage deals - which are linked to the Bank of England base rate - within the number on the market having halved in a week.   They also continued pulling many of their best savings accounts, with 24 of the 58 fixed-term savings products which typically offer high rates of return withdrawn from the market. Many banks also lowered their variable rate savings accounts.   The handful of good deals that remain are expected to be pulled or lowered next week, with Birmingham Midshires indicating it had been inundated with customers wanting to deposit money it its 6.6 per cent one-year bond. 'We want to remain as competitive as possible, but we can't promise this rate for much longer. We have been inundated,' a spokesman said. Any person trying to contact its call centre yesterday struggled to get through. Banks were caught completely unawares by the scale of the Bank of England's cut.   Experts predicted, however, that savers could in relative terms do well from the chaos, because banks and building societies were so desperate for funds to shore up their balance sheets.   Many of the lower rates introduced by savings institutions were relatively modest, with Saga, for instance, cutting its very popular one-year bond for customers over the age of 55 by just 0.5 percentage points to 6.35 per cent.   Kevin Mountford, the head of banking at MoneySupermarket.com, the personal finance website, said: 'If there is a shining light from the recent turmoil, it's that banks will never again be able to rely so much on the wholesale money markets. 'That means they will have to rely on their savers for funds, and in turn they will need to offer generous rates.' Yesterday, the benchmark rate at which banks lend to each other so called 3 month Libor dropped dramatically by 1.07 percentage points to 4.50 per cent. This was the biggest one day drop since September 17, 1992 the day that sterling crashed out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.   The meeting between Mr Darling and the Banks came after they were criticised for failing to immediately pass on Thursday's rate cut, despite many of them having been bailed out with tens of millions of pounds of taxpayers' money.   An insider close to the talks said: 'Alistair was calm but very firm with - he did read them the riot act. 'He expressed serious concerns about their reaction to what was a very bold and decisive action by the Bank of England in delivering a cut of such magnitude. 'The public expects to see something in return, particularly given the support that the Government has provided to them - in the form of tax payers' money in some cases - in recent weeks. 'Alistair told the chief execs that their customers were really feeling the pinch at the moment, and that the banks needed to help.   As he left the meeting, Mr Darling revealed that he had ordered banking chiefs to pass on the interest rate cut 'as quickly as possible''.   A banking source said the meeting was 'tough' and that the bosses made it clear that though they would pass on this cut, any further lowering of the Bank of England base rate was unlikely to be passed on to customers. 'They explained that banks do not borrow at the Bank's base rates. They borrow at wholesale money market rates,' he said. By last night, nearly all had promised to pass on the benefit of the cut in full to customers on standard variable rate mortgages. Their action came after a fraught meeting at the Treasury on Friday morning.   Halifax, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland, Abbey, Nationwide, Northern Rock promised to pass on the cut in full. Just HSBC and Barclays said they were 'reviewing' their rates. However, while banks passed lower rates to customers on standard variable rate mortgages, this will benefit a relatively small number fewer than 1 million out of the 11.7 million mortgage holders in the country, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.   Any customer on a fixed-rate deal, who needs to re-finance, or any first time buyer tying to get on the ladder could struggle to find a low mortgage rate.   More than 130 tracker rate mortgages have been pulled this week alone and there are no signs, as yet, that lenders are lowering their fixed rate mortgages for new customers. Many of the standard variable rates, which have now dropped below 5 per cent, are not available to new customers. 
