THE Commonwealth Bank last night sought to defend its controversial decision not to pass on to home-owners the full benefits of the Reserve Bank's surprise 0.75 per cent cut in interest rates, as speculation grew that one of its major competitors would trump its move.  With the Federal Government and the Opposition alike urging the banks to follow the RBA's example by cutting mortgage costs by the same amount, Australia's biggest lender said the continuing pressures on its funding base caused by the global credit crisis prevented a reduction of more than 0.58 percentage points.  The crisis meant the cost of meeting its lending needs had jumped to their highest levels since the crisis began more than a year ago, which meant that it was not in a position to afford such a large rate cut.  The bank also sought to tie yesterday's reduction to its most recent drop of 0.21 percentage points, which took effect last Monday, suggesting that home-owners would benefit from a greater cut than the RBA's move would deliver.  In the statement announcing yesterday's cut, however, CommBank chiefs failed to mention that last week's move was a belated second reduction in the wake of the RBA's decision in October to lower the official cash rate by 1 percentage point - to which it initially responded by cutting by 0.8 percentage points.  Yesterday's announcement mirrored that strategy, although no other bank followed suit in disclosing its rate cut plans, leaving the Commonwealth to take the full heat of ensuing criticism.  Its retail banking divisional boss, Ross McEwan, said the bank understood the continuing pressures that interest rates had put on its customers but it had to deal with problems of its own.  'Raising long term funds remains extremely difficult and expensive. Similarly, the cost of short-term onshore funding has increased in recent weeks and we are also experiencing increased costs in retail deposits,' he said.  The Commonwealth's major rivals - ANZ, National Australia Bank, Westpac and St George - were last night closely watching the political fallout from its decision. There is the possibility that one of them could break ranks today and pass on the full amount. All of the banks said yesterday they were reviewing their rates in light of the RBA's move.  Industry watchers yesterday expressed sympathy with the banking sector's funding problems, saying conditions in credit markets still remained difficult.  An interest rate strategist at Deutsche Bank, David Plank, said the easing in short-term credit markets reduced one type of bank funding costs but market volatility made measuring banks' funding pressures difficult.  
