AUSTRALIAN staff at Citigroup are the latest to bear the brunt of sackings in the banking sector, in a sign of the mounting toll of the global financial crisis.  On Monday night the US banking giant announced it would wipe out 52,000 jobs from its worldwide operations - 14 per cent of its staff - as it faced loan write-offs and recession across the developed world.  In one of the biggest lay-offs in recent history, Citi's global chief executive, Vikram Pandit, told staff in New York that its headcount would shrink from 352,000 at the end of September to 300,000 in the 'near term'.  A spokeswoman for Citi's Australian operations said there would also be sackings across the bank's 2500 staff in Sydney and Melbourne.  'It will be a small reduction in our workforce in Australia,' she said. 'It's part of global process and part of a challenging operating environment in most parts of the world.'  Citi staff spoken to by the Herald said they had not been given further details of the cuts.  'We just don't know. Hopefully I'm alright,' one employee said. 'It's not fantastic.'  Citi, America's fourth-largest bank, has been battered by the credit crisis. Its share price is at a 12-year low after $US20 billion of losses in the past year.  But in a measure of how markedly the bank's outlook has deteriorated as the credit crunch has worsened, the Australian chief executive Stephen Roberts was initially confident that it could weather the storm without mass lay-offs.  In January he told the Herald it was 'definitely business as usual' for the local operation.  'If I look at what we're doing in terms of head count, we're increasing it; we're investing in our businesses.'  For the 400,000 workers in Australia's financial sector it is the latest ominous sign of worse to come after thousands of job cuts.  The troubled insurer IAG laid off 600 staff, 5 per cent of its workforce, in July, and ANZ Bank has announced it will cut an undisclosed number of jobs as it reviews its operations.  Last month KPMG forecast the big banks would cut up to 10,000 from their staff of about 150,000.  The director of policy and communications for the Finance Sector Union of Australia, Rod Masson, said sackings in the financial sector had not attracted the same level of political attention as in other vulnerable industries such as car manufacturing.  'Given that they've poured an awful lot of taxpayers' money into shoring up the sector, they might want to extract a few conditions based on that investment,' he said.  with agencies  Story Tools  Got news tips for us? Email us photos, videos &amp;amp; tip-offs  
