Faced with the grim reality of deteriorating data, our surveyed economists have made equally rapid adjustments. There is little doubt that the global contraction has been more pronounced than they had envisaged compared to a month earlier. In the absence of inflationary risks, central banks around the world initiated in October a series of rate cuts in response to the rout across global financial markets.Following a coordinated 50bp reduction in rates in the US, UK and the eurozone October 8, the Federal Reserve eased 50bp October 27, taking the federal funds rate to 1%, a level which had not been anticipated by the surveyed economists during the next six months. The Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) at Columbia University uses a weekly leading indicator to forecast the bottom of a business cycle. The indicator dropped to 112.9 for the week ending October 24 from 114 a week earlier, the lowest level since the 1973-74 recession.Markets have been more realistic about where we are in the business cycle than policymakers, says Anand Lakshman, Managing Director at ECRI. We have seen two global recessions in the post World War II period, the first during 73-75 and the other during 81-82. Both lasted 16 months. Where are we now? The earliest the recession may have begun is October 2007 and the latest January 2008. We are nine to 12-months into a recession in the US.More ECB easing aheadJean-Claude Trichet has left the door open for further easing November 6 as economic conditions continued to erode in October. Our economists now expect a 50bp point easing. This would lower the refinance rate to 3.25%. The Purchasing Managers Survey, considered a leading GDP indicator, lost two points and stands at 44.6, its lowest level since the series was created in 1998. Meanwhile, inflation decelerated to 3.6% in September. Even without the drop in crude oil prices, import prices posted their third monthly decline in October.What will the magnitude of European policymakers response be to the weak data? Our ten economists have differing opinions as to the scope and speed of the response. Five expect the ECB to lower rates 100bps during the next three months; two forecast a 75bp reduction, three a 50bp cut. The median forecast for the refinance rate is 2.88% for January, markedly lower than last months 4%. Looking out six months, the median forecast is divided into two camps: 2.75% and 2.25%. The one exception is Merrill Lynch at 3%.Unlike the ECB, the Federal Reserve is hamstrung, having lowered the federal funds rate to 1%. The consensus forecast calls for no change in the federal funds rate in the coming six months. However, Barclays and JP Morgan expect a reduction of 25bp within three months and Natixis anticipates a 50bp drop. The forecasts reflect an economy in the throes of a marked contraction. GDP growth in Q3 is .3% and defence spending accounts for a good segment of it. This compares to 2.8% GDP in Q2.Two beneficiaries of flight to quality and lower oil prices have been US Treasuries and the US dollar. The euro lost 6% of its value against the dollar in one month. The dollar has also made strides against a number of emerging market currencies which have started to discount the prospect of a sharp economic downturn, raising questions over their ability to decouple from the US recession. The surveyed economists expect the dollar to broadly remain at current levels between now and April. Natixis expects the dollar to weaken to 1.21 against the euro by the end of January.This e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it
