RBA cuts rates to 5.25pc  Economists predicted a 50bp cut  THE Reserve Bank has slashed interest rates by 75 basis points to 5.25 per cent.  Most economists had predicted a 50 basis point cut, saying it was needed to boost the slowing economy despite inflation being at 5 per cent.  If banks pass on the rate cut in full to borrowers, home owners with an average $300,000 mortgage will see a further $150 knocked off their monthly repayments.  But so far, just one bank has announced a rate cut and it's not the full amount. Almost immediately after the RBA announcement, Commonwealth Bank said it would cut interest rates on its standard variable home loan rates by 0.58 per cent, effective November 10.  How low will they go?  Today's rate cut follows a 1 percentage point cut in October, and a 25 basis point cut in September.  NabCapital senior markets economist David de Garis said more rate cuts from the RBA were likely.  'There is nothing to suggest that they have finished at this stage,'' Mr de Garis said.  'It looks like we are going to get a sizeable easing at the next meeting, quite conceivably half a per cent, with a bit more in the new year.'  ANZ chief economist Saul Eslake said ANZ is forecasting the cash rate will fall to 4.5 per cent during the current easing cycle. But he wouldn't rule out the possibility that rates could go even lower.  'The possibility of setting a new all-time low next year cannot be dismissed,'' he said.  Why the big cuts?  Citigroup managing director of economics Stephen Halmarick said the RBA's concern about the world economy sparked the big rate cut.  'They are really worried about the global economic outlook,' he said.  'They are to be applauded for really acting aggressively to move rates lower: markets are a bit surprised it was 75 rather than 50.'  The cuts are an attempt to stop the economy being dragged into a recession in the face of a deepening global financial crisis.  Recent local economic data has pointed to rising unemployment, falling house prices and weak consumer spending.  Reserve Bank governor Glenn Stevens said today world financial markets had remained 'turbulent' over the past month.  'Global equity prices have been volatile and fell further in net terms, and there have been significant exchange rate movements, including a sharp depreciation of the Australian dollar,' he said.  'Weighing up these international and domestic developments, the Board judged that a further significant reduction in the cash rate was warranted.'  Last week the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point to 1 per cent, and the European Central Bank is expected to cut interest rates by 50 basis points to 3.25 per cent this week.  This was a news.com.au LIVE event. Relive our interactive coverage below.  
