Corning, a provider of specialty glass and ceramics, announced results for the third quarter 2008.   In a release, the company noted that third-quarter highlights include:   - Sales were $1.56 billion, about even with last year's third quarter.   - Earnings per share (EPS) were $0.49; including net special gains of $36 million or $0.03 per share.   - Excluding special items, EPS was $0.46, up 21 percent over last year's results, due in part to favorable exchange-rate movements.   - Display Technologies' combined LCD glass volume, including Corning's wholly owned business and Samsung Corning Precision Glass Co., Ltd. (SCP), was up 2 percent sequentially and 18 percent year over year. Volume from Corning's wholly owned business decreased 10 percent sequentially and 2 percent year over year. Samsung Corning Precision's volume increased 12 percent sequentially and 38 percent year over year. Fourth-quarter outlook summary:   - Sales are expected in the range of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.   - EPS before special items are expected in the range of $0.20 to $0.28.* - Combined LCD glass volume is expected to be down in the range of 10 percent to 20 percent sequentially, with the wholly owned business down 20 percent to 30 percent and SCP down 5 percent to 15 percent. Year over year the combined glass volume is expected to decrease by 2 percent to 13 percent - For the full year, combined LCD glass volume growth is expected to be 20 percent to 22 percent. 'During the third quarter we experienced the impact of a supply chain correction in our display business. We believe that worsening economic conditions are now affecting retail demand for several of our businesses and that this economic decline may be accelerating in the fourth quarter. In response, we have initiated actions to reduce capital spending, scale back some manufacturing operations, curb the rate of growth in research, development and engineering expenses and reduce overhead to manage costs,' Wendell P. Weeks, chairman and chief executive officer, said. 'If business conditions deteriorate further, we will consider additional capacity and operational adjustments,' he added. Overview of third-quarter segment results:   Third-quarter sales for Corning's Display Technologies segment were $696 million, a 14 percent sequential decline and flat with the third quarter 2007. Glass volume from Corning's wholly owned business decreased by 2 percent year over year and 10 percent sequentially. Price declines were in line with previous quarters. Compared to the second quarter, sales were negatively impacted by a weaker Japanese yen-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate.   Equity earnings from SCP's LCD glass business were $259 million for the quarter, a 6 percent sequential gain and a 62 percent increase over third-quarter 2007 results. SCP's quarterly glass volume increased 12 percent sequentially and 38 percent year over year, reflecting continued strength in the Korean LCD market. 'Although our combined glass volume reflects strong year-over-year growth in the LCD glass market, we have seen lower demand in Taiwan and stronger demand in Korea. This trend is expected to continue in the fourth quarter,' Weeks said. Telecommunications segment sales in the third quarter were $496 million, a 4 percent sequential increase and a 5 percent increase over a year ago. The sequential increase was the result of higher demand for private network solutions.   Environmental Technologies segment sales were $177 million for the quarter, a 15 percent sequential decline and an 11 percent decrease from a year ago. Sales were lower than expected in the third quarter due to continued weak automotive products demand in North America and recent market softness in Europe and the rest of the world. Heavy-duty diesel product sales continue to be depressed due to the slowdown in the U.S. freight shipping industry.   Specialty Materials segment sales were $101 million, a slight sequential decline and a 6 percent increase over the third quarter last year. The Life Sciences segment had sales of $83 million in the quarter, a 5 percent sequential decline and a 6 percent year-over-year increase.   Corning's third-quarter equity earnings were $382 million, up 6 percent sequentially and 60 percent year over year due to strong performance at Dow Corning and SCP. The company's equity earnings from Dow Corning were $109 million, a 16 percent sequential increase and a 35 percent year-over-year improvement. Equity earnings in the third quarter of 2008 included an $18 million charge at Dow Corning due to losses on cash and short-term investments. Equity earnings in the third quarter of 2007 included an $18 million restructuring charge at Samsung Corning Corp.   Special items:   The company's third-quarter results included net special gains of $36 million or $0.03 per share. Corning recognized a gain of $43 million from the settlement of a long-standing tax dispute and released an additional $70 million of U.S. deferred tax asset valuation allowances. These items were offset by a $6 million pretax and after-tax charge related to the pending Pittsburgh Corning bankruptcy proceeding; a $14 million pretax and after-tax loss on the sale of a business; a $39 million pretax and after-tax loss on cash and short-term investments; and an $18 million reduction of equity earnings from Dow Corning related to losses on cash and short-term investments. 'Our $3.2 billion of cash and short-term investments are conservatively invested. We did have minor exposure to certain financial industry securities which resulted in a small loss in the quarter,' James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer said. 'Additionally, Dow Corning had exposure to certain Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities that were impaired as a result of the U.S. government intervention,' he added. Fourth-quarter outlook: 'We are now seeing the impact of the global economic turmoil on several of our businesses, most notably our display business. Recent retail data, supplied by the NPD Group, revealed considerable slowing of U.S. consumer LCD television purchases in the second half of September and again in the first half of October. (The NPD Group is an independent consumer market research firm.) 'As a result, we expect our fourth-quarter results to reflect appreciably lower sales as well as increased costs from capacity reductions in several of our businesses,' Flaws said. Corning expects its consolidated gross margin to be in the range of 31 percent to 36 percent, reflecting lower margins in the display, telecommunications and environmental segments.   2009 outlook: 'During this time of economic volatility, it is difficult for us to assess the potential impact on the full-year 2009 glass market,' Flaws said. 'We are seeing rapid shifts in our display glass customer ordering patterns as they react to changes in their demand. We have seen some slowing in consumer demand for LCD televisions in the early fall, but it is difficult to know how prolonged any slowdown may be. As a result, we think that it is prudent to lower our 2009 glass market forecasts and plan our capacity accordingly. As such, we have revised our LCD glass market growth estimate to 5 percent to 15 percent to better reflect the potential impact of continued weak economic conditions. 'The worldwide automotive industry is also experiencing significant declines and faces great uncertainty. We anticipate 2009 worldwide auto volume could be down 5 percent to 8 percent and we are adjusting our capacity to prepare for these levels. We are also expecting the heavy-duty diesel market will remain very weak in 2009. These dynamics underscore our need to be very agile in managing our businesses and controlling expenses to effectively address changing product demand and market conditions,' Flaws said. As previously announced, Corning plans to slow its rate of capital spending in the Display Technologies segment for the remainder of this year and 2009. Corning's total 2008 capital spending is now expected to be between $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion. 'We are also planning further reductions to our previously disclosed 2009 capital spending range of $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion, and potential restructuring charges in the fourth quarter. And, we are carefully managing our research and development spending while maintaining a commitment to investments in new business opportunities,' Flaws said. Speaking to the company's financial position, Flaws said, 'We believe Corning's strong financial position can endure a prolonged downturn in the economy. We have $3.2 billion in cash and short-term investments and $1.5 billion of debt, only $250 million of which is due in the next four years. The majority of the company's cash and short-term investments are in U.S. treasury bills, treasury-backed securities, government money market funds and bank deposits. We expect to continue to have full access to a $1.125 billion unused revolving credit facility which doesn't expire until 2011,' Flaws said. Weeks added, 'We do believe the present market uncertainty is not changing the long-term fundamentals which drive our business segments. While the economy is clearly impacting us in the short run, we believe LCD televisions will continue to penetrate the worldwide TV market and demand will increase for cleaner environmental solutions and faster information delivery systems, all made possible through Corning's products and technologies.' Upcoming investor meetings:   Peter F. Volanakis, president and chief operating officer, will be presenting at the UBS Technology Conference in New York on November 18, and James B. Flaws, vice chairman and chief financial officer, will present at the Barclays Capital Global Technology Conference in San Francisco on December 10.   (Comments on this story may be sent to newsdesk@closeupmedia.com) (Distributed on behalf of 10Meters via M2 Communications Ltd - http://www.m2.com) (10Meters - http://ww...
