ONE of Australia's biggest banks has tipped interest rates will plunge to 3.75 per cent, which could see almost $300 a month slashed off the average loan.  And amid forecasts yesterday of more drastic action from the Reserve Bank, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said protecting jobs was his priority.   Mr Rudd told Parliament his Government was prepared to spend the surplus to stimulate the economy. 'I regard war on unemployment as the Government's highest priority,' he said. 'The Government remains determined to take whatever action is necessary for the future in order to support the economy, to support growth and to support jobs.' The PM's rally cry came as NAB chief economist Alan Oster yesterday cut the bank's interest rate forecast just a day after the RBA lowered its growth projections.   Official interest rates have dropped by 2 percentage points to 5.25 per cent in the past three months, but NAB expects the RBA to lower rates by another 0.75 percentage points next month. 'This will be followed by another cut of 50 basis points in February and a further 25 basis point reduction in March to take the cash rate to 3.75 per cent,' he said. Similar cuts in mortgage rates would shave another $287 off monthly repayments on a standard variable loan of $300,000.   It would lower repayments on a $350,000, 25-year standard variable mortgage by $334 a month.   While the major banks have resisted passing on the full benefits of recent falls in official rates, a dramatic cut in the RBA's rate would see a big drop in variable rates.   The big four banks -- Commonwealth Bank, ANZ, NAB and Westpac -- now charge about 7.73 per cent, but the forecast falls could bring the standard variable rate down to 6.5 per cent or even lower.   But Mr Oster warns the reduction in official interest rates is also a sign the RBA is very worried about the global economy.   Almost $40 billion was wiped off the stock market yesterday after investors lost faith in the China rebound.   The All Ordinaries index collapsed 3.5 per cent to below 4000 points.  Acrimony over the economy boiled over in Parliament after the Opposition accused senior Treasury officials of altering its economic forecast to help the Government. 'It has got the smell of manipulation about it,' Liberal frontbencher Andrew Robb said.   Mr Rudd described Mr Robb's comments as extraordinary, and accused Opposition frontbenchers of attacking unelected regulators.   The Rudd Government has ruled out a mini-budget to re-allocate federal finances after the NSW Government slashed its spending by $3.3 billion yesterday.   The cash-strapped NSW Government has shelved a raft of transport plans and introduced the nation's first 'congestion tax' to reap extra revenue during peak hour on the Sydney Harbour Bridge and Tunnel.   Despite a collapse in capital gains and company tax, and a rise in welfare, the PM and Treasurer Wayne Swan's office say they see no need to bring forward the May Budget.   The rate cut forecast coincides with a collapse in business confidence, which has reached its lowest point since the NAB monthly survey began just over a decade ago.   The survey shows that fear now 'reigns supreme' as the impact of the global economic meltdown hits home.   ANZ deputy chief economist Tony Pearson said policy-makers and governments were clearly very worried about the depth and duration of the slowdown. 'It is going to be very tough over the next 18 months for businesses, and households will also suffer,' he said. ANZ is tipping the RBA will be forced to drop official interest rates to a low of 3.5 per cent by late 2009 to boost spending and avert a full-blown recession. 'Australia should skirt a recession but NSW is already in recession and there is a danger that it may drag the rest of the economy down with it,' Mr Pearson warned.  
