 Bank of England Governor Mervyn King speaking to the Commons Treasury Committee during a press conference this week Photo: PA The surprise cut of 1.5 percentage points was designed to force banks and building societies to make borrowing cheaper for ordinary home owners. It was the biggest cut in percentage points since 1981, reducing the base rate by a third from 4.5 per cent to 3 per cent. Proportionally, it was the largest cut since the Second World War and means the base rate is at its lowest level for 53 years.  After the Bank's decision prompted by the severity of the economic downturn Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister, and Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, added to the growing political pressure on lenders to pass the reduction on to home owners and small businesses. However, by last night, all but two of Britain's biggest banks Lloyds TSB and Abbey had failed to say how much, if any, of the cut would be passed on.  Halifax and RBS, which were both bailed out by the taxpayer, Nationwide, Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester, HSBC, Barclays and Nationwide all said it was too early to say whether they would reduce rates.  Most rushed to pull tracker mortgages a popular form of home loan that tracks the Bank of England base rate for new customers. Their popularity has been based on the expectation that rates would fall in the next 12 months.  By last night 25 lenders, according to researchers at MoneyFacts, had pulled tracker deals, including Abbey, Nationwide, Woolwich and Northern Rock.  Some experts were predicting the 'extinction' of tracker mortgages.  The loss of lenders' most generous deals will cause major headaches for any home buyer trying to take advantage of lower house prices. It will also be a serious blow for the estimated 100,000 mortgage holders that need to refinance their home loans before the start of next year.   Savers will also be losers as banks use the rate cut as a reason to reduce savings rates. Yesterday 12 savings institutions pulled their most generous fixed rate bond and Individual Savings Account (Isa) products.  The last time interest rates were cut so dramatically was in March 1981 when Chancellor Geoffrey Howe attempted in vain to stop the country falling into recession by cutting rates from 14 per cent to 12 per cent. Rates are now at the lowest level since 1955, when Winston Churchill was in Downing Street.  The Bank of England, explained that the 'very marked deterioration in the outlook for economic activity at home and abroad' made its dramatic cut necessary.   Official figures show the economy shrinking for the first time in 16 years. Economists said the Bank's action was proof the economy was in 'grave danger' and rates were likely to come down to 2 per cent or lower.  The US stock market collapsed for a second day running, to record its largest two-day slump since 1987, after downbeat retail sales and unemployment data heightened recession fears. The Dow Jones Industrial Average retreated 443.4 points to 8,695.79, extending its two-day loss to almost 10 per cent.  The Prime Minister's official spokesman made it clear last night that No 10 expected the rate cut benefits to be passed on to home owners. 'The public expects that when there is an interest-rate cut, the public should feel the benefit of that. We expect banks to now play their part,' he said. Alistair Darling also insisted that it was 'essential' that the banks passed on lower borrowing costs.  However, Michelle Slade, at MoneyFacts, said: 'Many lenders are just not in a position to pass on the costs, because rates on the wholesale money market where they raise much of their financing are still very high. Consumers will be bitterly disappointed.' Although most economists and commentators welcomed the boldness of the move by the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee, many said it had come too late. The United States' central bank, the Federal   Continued from Page 1  Reserve, last week cut rates by half a percentage point to 1 per cent, having reduced them from 5.25 per cent a year ago. The British cut was followed by the European Central Bank, which lowered interest rates from 3.75 per cent to 3.25 per cent, to try to boost economic growth in the eurozone.  The one group of consumers who will enjoy the benefit of yesterday's dramatic action are the estimated 4.2 million customers already on tracker rate mortgages. Lenders are contractually obliged to cut customers' rates in line with the Bank's base rate. A customer with a 150,000 loan on a tracker deal will be paying 122 less each month from December.
