The Bank of England was today urged to slash interest rates as the UK economy sank deeper into recession.  Gloomy figures showed activity in the services and manufacturing sectors slumped again as the financial crisis spread to the real economy.  It piled further pressure on the Bank's monetary policy committee under Governor Mervyn King to cut rates aggressively when its two-day meeting ends tomorrow. The Bank is widely expected to cut rates from 4.5% to 4% but hopes are rising that it may go even further and reduce them to 3.5%.  George Buckley of Deutsche Bank said the MPC needed to 'step up a gear' and make the first full percentage point cut in rates since 1993.  Hetal Mehta, senior economic adviser to the Ernst &amp;amp; Young Item Club, said: 'There is little doubt in anyone's mind about whether or not interest rates will be cut. The real question is just how much will rates be slashed by.  'The MPC must cut from 4.5% to 3.5%. Anything less than that would be a case of too little, too late. The weakness in the economy is disturbing. Things will get worse before they can get better.'  Research by Barclays Stockbrokers found 58% of investors back a rate cut to 3.5%. 'A fall of half a percentage point won't be enough for most people,' said Barbara-Ann King of Barclays Stockbrokers.  Activity in the services sector, which accounts for almost three-quarters of output, fell for a sixth month in a row in October to its worst since records began in 1997. The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said its barometer of activity in the sector - which includes City stockbrokers, hotels and restaurants - fell from 46 in September to 42.4 last month. A score of 50 is the cut-off between growth and decline.  Roy Ayliffe, director of professional practice at CIPS, said: 'October saw little comfort for the UK services sector with activity declining at a record rate. It's increasingly clear firms are battening down the hatches and preparing for a long and hard hitting recession.'  Meanwhile, the Office for National Statistics said manufacturing output fell for a seventh month in September, down 0.8%. It is the longest run of monthly declines since 1980.  And the British Retail Consortium (BRC) shop price deflator today showed annual price rises slowed from 3.6% in September to 3% in October. Food prices retreated more sharply to 7.5% from 9.1% in September. The falls were greater than expected.  BRC Director General Stephen Robertson said: 'After a painful climb to the food inflation peak we're now accelerating down the other side. Food inflation is falling. It's falling more rapidly and we're now at the lowest rate since May.'  Howard Archer of Global Insight said: 'The latest dreadful data heighten concerns about the potential length and depth of UK recession and heighten the already very strong case for the Bank to cut interest rates aggressively on Thursday. We believe that the door is wide open for the Bank to get on with the job and deliver a full percentage point cut from 4.5% to 3.5%.'  The country's top business groups have called for aggressive cuts. Bosses including Marks &amp;amp; Spencer chairman Sir Stuart Rose and Top Shop chief Sir Philip Green added their voices yesterday to the chorus of demands for easier money.  The Confederation of British Industry, the Institute of Directors and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors were among the organisations demanding a reduction to 3.5%.  
