(CEP News) - An unusual 20bp rate cut from the Bank of Japan, coupled with inline CPI data and unemployment figures for the euro zone, weaker-than-expected retail sales from Germany, and a barrage of economic data from Japan, highlights the overnight economic news of the last day of the week.- Bank of Japan Cuts Rates 20 Basis Points to 0.30%, Was a Tie-Breaking Decision: The Bank of Japan surprised markets and cut by 20 basis points to 0.30% on Friday morning, against market expectations for a 25 basis point cut to 0.25%. The bank also cut their Lombard lending rate to 0.50% from 0.75%. In its statement on monetary policy, the bank said the decision stood at 4-4 and was decided finally by Governor Masaaki Shirakawa. The bank also said they would pay interest on excess reserves until the March reserves period, and set the interest rate on excess reserves at 0.1%.   - BOJ's Shirakawa Says Three Members Voted for Stronger Cut, One Voted No Change: Following a surprise cut to the Bank of Japan's Target Rate on Friday morning, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters that three members of the central bank's policy board had voted for a stronger cut of 25 basis points, while one had called for no change. Markets had expected a 25 basis point reduction. Shirakawa told reporters after the rate decision that all policy board members agreed that the economy was in a serious situation and that further deterioration had occurred recently. He added that maintaining stability in the market sector was essential   - BOJ Report Says Economic Sluggishness to Last Until 2009: Noting that downside risks to the Japanese economy have risen, the Bank of Japan expects the increased level of sluggishness in the economy to persist until the middle of the 2009 fiscal year, adding that monetary policy would be implemented as needed. In the central bank's semi-annual economic outlook report published on Friday, a majority of policy board members at the BOJ expect economic growth in Japan to average between 0.1% and 0.2% this fiscal year before picking up to between 0.3% and 0.7% in 2009 and jump to between 1.5% and 1.9% in the 2010 fiscal year.   - Euro Zone CPI Comes in at 3.2% Year-Over-Year as Expected: Euro zone inflation came in at 3.2% year-over-year in October as expected, down from the 3.6% rate seen in the 12 months to September, according to Eurostat preliminary estimates.   - Euro Zone Unemployment Stable at 7.5% in September: As expected, the unemployment rate in the euro zone remained unchanged at 7.5% in September, as reported by Eurostat on Friday. According to the statistics agency, an estimated 11.7 million people in the euro zone were unemployed in September, up by 52,000 compared to the month before, and up 507,000 compared to September 2007.  - German Retail Sales Fall 2.3% from August to September: German retail sales fell further than expected from August to September, with turnover declining 2.3%, according to the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis). Economists had expected a less pronounced fall of 1.0% month-over-month following August's 1.9% gain, revised down from an initial estimate of 3.1%. On annualized basis, retail sales in Germany rose 1.2% in real terms, up from the 3.0% decline seen in the 12 months to August. In nominal terms, retail trade turnover increased 4.1% year-over-year.   - UK GfK Consumer Confidence Meets Expectations for October: Consumer confidence in the UK fell to -36 in October from -32 in September, in line with expectations. The index rating the economic situation over the last 12 months fell to -72 from -62, while the index for the next 12 months also fell, to -37 from -40 .   - Italian Producer Prices Rise 7.3% Year-Over-Year in September: Italian producer price inflation came in at 7.3% annually in September, down from both the 7.6% level expected and the 8.4% rate seen in the 12 months to August, the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT) said on Friday. According to ISTAT, energy prices led the way in gains, rising 19.9% in the year to September. However, the increase in September was down five percentage points from the jump seen in August.   - Italian CPI Rises 3.5%, HICP Reaches 3.6% Year-Over-Year in October: Italian consumer prices rose 3.5% in the 12 months to October as expected, according to preliminary estimates from the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT) published on Friday. September had seen inflation reach 3.8% year-over-year. On a monthly basis, the statistics agency also reported that the consumer price index stagnated in October as expected, following September's 0.3% decline. In EU harmonized terms, ISTAT reported that the CPI reached a growth rate of 3.6% in the 12 months to October, in line with expectations and down 0.3 percentage points from September's level. Month-over-month, the CPI rose 0.5%, up 0.1 percentage points from the 0.4% increase expected and unchanged from the previous period.  - ECB's Bini Smaghi Says Euro Zone Facing Crisis With Strong Euro: European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said that the strength of the euro was helping the euro zone better deal with the current crisis and that countries outside the monetary union were suffering more than those within it. While presenting his new book in Rome, Italy on Friday, Bini Smaghi also said that the productivity in the euro zone was benefiting from the strong euro and that Eastern European countries were coming to the ECB for assistance.  - ECB's Quaden Says Rate Cut is Possible, Crisis the Worst Since 1930s: European Central Bank Governing Council member Guy Quaden said that a further cut in the ECB's main refinancing rate is possible, echoing previous comments from both ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet and follow board member Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez that a reduction in rates was possible as early as next week. In an interview with Belgian newspaper L'Echo published on Friday, Quaden said that the economy could see another contraction, but that a depression like the one seen in the 1930s was not likely.   - Austrian Rescue Package Put in Place to Help Banks, Says ECB's Nowotny: European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said that Austria's financial rescue package was put in place to help banks and already notes that progress has been made. Nowotny also urged banks to continue lending to households and firms.   - Japan Inflation Meets Expectations in September, Tokyo CPI Lower Than Forecast: Inflation in Japan was lower in September as expected, with core CPI coming in at +2.3% year-over-year in September, in line with estimates and below August's 2.4% gain, according to preliminary data released by the Japanese Statistics Bureau on Friday morning (Thursday night EDT). Headline CPI was unchanged, as expected, at 2.1%. Consumer prices excluding fresh food and energy increased 0.2% year-over-year, in-line with forecasts and above August's flat reading. The report had more timely information available for Tokyo. Core inflation for October in Tokyo grew as expected by 1.5% year-over-year, compared to September's 1.7% gain. Headline CPI was up 1.2%, below expectations for a 1.3% increase and below the previous month's 1.4% gain. Tokyo CPI excluding fresh foods and energy advanced 0.4%, against calls for a 0.5% annual growth rate and the 0.5% rise seen in August.  - Japan Unemployment Rate Falls Below Forecasts in September: The Japanese seasonally adjusted unemployment rate decreased to 4.0% in September, despite expectations for it to remain at 4.2%, in line with August's unemployment rate. The job-to-applicant ratio declined to 0.84 from 0.86 in September, below expectations for a fall to 0.85.  - Japanese Household Spending Falls Less Than Expected in September: Japanese household spending declined by 2.3% in September, less than the 4.0% decline expected by economists and less than August's 4.0% decline. Spending by workers decreased by 3.4% year-over-year compared to a -3.1% reading in August.   - Japan Manufacturing PMI Hits Lowest Point Since December 2001: According to a report from NTC Research, the seasonally adjusted Japanese Nomura/JMMA manufacturing PMI slid to a reading of 42.2 in October from 44.3 in September, the lowest reading since December 2001.   - Japanese Housing Starts Rise 54.2% in 12 Months to September: Housing starts in Japan rose 54.2%, or 1.13 million, year-over-year in Japan, up from both the 52.0% gain expected and the 53.6% rise seen in the 12 months to August, the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport said on Friday. In non-seasonally adjusted terms, the number of housing starts jumped 41.1% year-over-year in September, reflecting an increase of 97,184 compared to the same month in 2007. August had seen a gain of 45.1%, up 96,905 over the year.   - Japanese Construction Orders Rise 10.3% Annually in September: Japan's 50 largest contractors saw construction orders rise 10.3% year-over-year in September, up from the 0.3% decline seen in the year to August, the Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport said.   - Australian Private Sector Credit Above Expectations in September: Credit from Australian financial intermediaries increased against expectations by 0.7% for the month of September, down from the prior month's +0.5% figure and above the 0.4% increase expected. On an annual basis, private sector credit rose 10.1%, higher than the 9.6% increase forecast but lower than the prior month's 10.1% figure, the Reserve Bank of Australia reported Friday morning (Thursday night EDT).   - RBA's Debelle Says U.S. Swap Lines Are Easing Pressure in Markets: The U.S. Federal Reserve has been successful in easing liquidity pressures in global markets, said Guy Debelle, Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Assistant Governor. Speaking to an audience in Melbourne, he said the swap lines established with multiple nations 'has had some success with conditions in the U.S. dollar swap markets...
