But the Asian giant is slowing - that's now official. The big question is by how much and how quickly.   Economists believe there is a magic number - and if China dips below it, there will be a cascade of consequences.   Quite what that number is no one knows for sure, but Saul Eslake, chief economist at ANZ Bank, says most pundits put it around 8 per cent. 'The reckoning of most experts is that the Chinese economy needs to grow by at least 8 per cent in order to create enough new jobs in the cities to absorb the - some say as many as 10 million -- people who leave the rural areas to search for work in the city every year,' he said. Now, for the first time in nearly two decades, our biggest trading partner may slip below that level -- and the implications for Australia, not to mention the rest of the world, could be grave.   This week, Chinese government data revealed that national industrial output slipped to 8.2 per cent in October, down more than 3 per cent in just one month.   The shock figures came as Premier Wen Jiabao was quoted in state media as saying the impact of the global financial crisis on the world's fourth-biggest economy was 'worse than expected'. Fears are mounting that China's economic growth could fall to as low as 5 per cent next year, dragged down by falling exports to the US and Europe, weakness in real estate and blows to confidence from the global financial crisis.   And although that is still much higher than wealthy developed nations, it is just half of China's average expansion rate of 9.9 per cent over the past three decades.   Mr Eslake warned there was a 'real risk' of mass unemployment if Chinese growth dropped below 8 per cent for a sustained period.   This, in turn, has the potential to create widespread social unrest of a kind not seen since the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989. 'Because people in China don't have the outlet that we do to indicate their disapproval of the government's economic policies, they will choose other methods such as social unrest -- and widespread social unrest in China has always been associated with regime change,' Mr Eslake said. 'That is the authorities' worst nightmare. Since the early 1990s there's been a kind of unspoken bargain between the urban middle classes and the Communist Party, which says: 'You guys keep delivering rapid improvements in our living standards year after year, and give us reason to believe that our children will be better off than we are, and we will let you run the country and put off to our grand-children the question of why you're running it'.' Some big Chinese companies are already cutting jobs. This month, the nation's largest aluminium producer, Chalco, reduced production of the metal and European car-maker Peugeot Citroen laid off workers at its factory in Hubei province.   And there are suggestions the problem is much worse than reported in state-owned media, with anecdotal evidence indicating that as many as 80,000 factories have closed their doors since the economy started to slow.   So what does this all mean for Australia? The answer - admittedly an unwelcome one - is that there is real cause for concern.   A hard landing in China would slash Australian export volumes, cut national income and push commodity prices - which have already halved from record levels in July - even lower.   It is a sobering thought, given that most of Australia's strong economic performance over the past seven years has been driven by the much-vaunted commodities super-cycle.   Rapacious Chinese demand for raw materials is also the main reason behind the local share market's stunning gains before the turmoil caused by the credit crunch.   Perhaps most worrying of all, there is a risk that social unrest in China could destabilise the entire Asian region, creating a raft of national security issues for Australia.   In an effort to fix China's rapidly escalating problems, Beijing this week unveiled a massive $US586 billion ($A893 billion) economic stimulus package.   At first blush the plan is dazzling in its sheer size: the devil, it appears, is in the detail.   Shane Oliver, chief economist at investment manager , said much of the spending that made up the headline figure was already going ahead anyway. 'The plan isn't as big as it looks because the Chinese have wrapped a whole bunch of projects into one big package,' he said. 'The projects were happening anyway; they had already been announced. They're spread over a couple of years and it's not the case that the Chinese government is financing a lot of it -- they're relying on the private sector to do it instead.' FURTHERMORE, much of the funding is earmarked for low-budget housing in Sichuan province following the earthquake that devastated the region earlier this year.   That is bad news for Australian miners, because cheap residential construction uses fewer base metals than high-grade infrastructure such as the sporting facilities built for the Beijing Olympics.   Tom Price, a commodity analyst at investment bank Merrill Lynch, said even if the Chinese government's economic stimulus measures were successful, they would take at least six to 18 months to make a difference. 'Some people are saying these programs will take immediate effect and it will drive commodities demand globally, and Australia's going to look great in a short time: I don't think it's going to work that way,' he said. 'The Chinese Government tends to work in small increments - they don't shock the economy. Their priority is stable growth and they're not all that concerned about what is happening ex-China. 'Their priority is to maintain healthy economic growth and stable employment growth within China as best they can.' Regardless of how events unfold, one thing is now beyond doubt: we cannot rely on a single trading partner - no matter how big - to protect us from the worst financial crisis in history.   Tom Elliott, managing director of hedge fund MM&amp;amp;E Capital, said Australia had been wrong to pin all its hopes on China. 'The idea that one economy was going to be a white knight and continue to grow, disconnected from the others, was always a silly idea,' he said. 'I think that was us trying to reassure ourselves.' 'The reckoning of most experts is that t... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/heraldsun/story/0,21985,24652988-664,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
