Employers are increasingly turning to part-time workers to fill their needs as the economic slowdown begins to pinch and NSW's jobless rate jumps.  The economy added an unexpectedly large number of jobs last month - 34,300 in total - but the gain masked the loss of 9200 full-time positions.  The unemployment rate stayed put at 4.3% because of the whopping 43,500 part-time positions created last month - the most since April 2001.  'Sometimes the switch from full to part-time employment is a sign business is putting labour on more judiciously than they would otherwise to meet demand,' said economist David de Garis of National Australia Bank.  Economists had tipped the economy would shed a net 10,000 positions last month.  The Rudd Government yesterday released revised estimates for the economy, including raising the forecast for the jobless rate to 5% by next June.  Some economists, though, predict the unemployment rate will rise to 9% by the end of 2010.  The Reserve Bank, anxious to prevent a recession, chopped the interest rate again this week for the third time in as many months. After taking the cash rate to 5.25% on Tuesday, traders now see 75 more basis points of cuts when the RBA meets again in December. Within a year, investors forecast a rate of 4.25%.  The initial market reaction to the jobs data was positive, with the Australian dollar jumping about half of one US cent to 68.1 US cents, before giving up all of the gains to trade at recently at 67.28 US cents (Click here for report). Shares were little changed on the news (Click here for report).  NSW woes  In NSW, 17,500 people lost their jobs last month, seasonally adjusted, sending the unemployment rate up 0.4 of a percentage point to 5.2%.  As Australia's banking hub, Sydney may cop big job losses as firms cut employment as the shake-out of the international financial sector gathers pace.  Other states fared better, with the jobless rate easing in Western Australia (2.2%), South Australia (5.3%),and Tasmania (3.5%). Victoria's rate was unchanged at 4.4%, while Queensland's rose one-tenth of a percentage point to 3.8%.  The loss of full-time jobs nationally comes after the economy shed 23,300 such positions in September - and that figure was revised lower from an earlier estimate of 15,400 jobs.  NAB's Mr de Garis predicts more job losses to come as the effects of the global financial crisis buffet Australia.  'Usually the labour market lags the economy,' he said, adding he expects a deterioration in the jobs market over the next 12-18 months.  Economic crunch time  Ford, Boeing and Fairfax Media (owner of this website) are among companies announcing staff reductions to cope with weaker demand.  More manufacturing job losses may be ahead. Car sales data just out show an 11% drop in sales in October, compared with a year earlier.  The Government yesterday cuts its economic growth expectations to 2% for the 2008-2009 year from the 2.75% forecast in the federal budget.  'The bottom line is that the Government's budget estimates ... look too optimistic,' said ANZ economist Katie Dean in a note to clients.  Mining companies, among others, are reviewing investment plans as commodity prices tumble.  The housing construction sector, another big employer, is also in a rut. The number of building permits slumped in September by 7.2% from August, and registered the biggest year-on-year drop in seven years.  Gathering gloom overseas was a key reason for the Reserve Bank opting to lop another 75 basis points off its key interest rate on Tuesday, bringing it to a five-year low of 5.25%.  Silver lining?  That said, some economists view the part-time gains totalling 73,700 over the past three months as proof the job market may hold up better than many fear.  'Employment lags growth by some distance,' said Michael Turner of 4Cast Ltd. 'It's not unreasonable to expect the labour market to be reasonably strong through end of the year.'  However, Mr Turner still expects the jobless rate to rise as the economy slows.  'While this may reflect some statistical volatility in the data, it confirms that at best we have seen only a very moderate response from the labour market to weakening economic conditions and prospects,' ANZ economist Riki Polygenis said in a note to clients.  'The worst is yet to come, consistent with the downward trend in forward-looking indicators and the now weaker economic outlook,' she said.  Financial pinch  Already job losses are mounting, especially in the finance sector.  Retail finance company GE Money slashed 335 jobs last month as the rising cost of lending bites into its business.  Insurance Australia Group announced 600 job cuts in July, while credit card company Diners Club trimmed 130 positions in August.  A reorganisation at ANZ Bank is also expected to result in job losses.  
