 as slowdown bites  Chris Zappone  Retail sales dropped more than expected in September as consumer spending dried up amid fears of an economic slowdown.  Monthly retail sales fell a seasonally adjusted 1.1%, Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show, as the lingering effects of decade-high interest rates combined with fears for the economy to put a lid on spending.  The drop was the biggest since April 2005 and follows a 0.5% rise in August. Analysts had expected a fall of 0.5%.  'It's a pretty sharp contraction and doesn't bode well for household spending going forward and contributing to GDP growth in the third quarter,' said Moody's Economy.com Matt Robinson.  In trend terms, retail sales for September gained 0.2%, from 0.3% in August, in line with analysts' expectations.  Downward pressure on rates  The Reserve Bank, which meets to discuss a rate cut tomorrow, had focused on retail sales six months ago when it raised rates to a decade high.  'You've now got the double-downward pressure of the tight monetary policy of six months ago as well as the global financial market turmoil. And the global economic slowdown is going to doubly weigh on household consumption,' Mr Robinson said.  The market is pricing in a half a percentage point rate cut by the RBA when it meets tomorrow, which would take the rate to 5.5% from 6%.  'It's a very soft set of data that came out this morning, ' said RBC Capital Markets economist Su-Lin Ong. 'I think it's very much consistent with a rate cut tomorrow. We're expecting 50 basis points of cuts and more cuts thereafter.'  The central bank's focus has moved from fighting inflation to maintaining growth amid a pull back in economic activity brought on by a coming global recession.  Inflation below 4%  Inflation showed the first signs of moderating in the TD Securities-Melbourne Institute monthly inflation gauge for October, which dropped 0.2%. Lower prices in produce, holiday travel and accommodation brought the first contraction in the index since February 2006.  The monthly figure follows a 0.4% increase in September. For the year to October, the gauge slipped to 3.9%, the first time it has been below 4% since January 2008. Last month, the year-to-September figure was 5%.  More signs of weakness  Other signs of weakness are filtering through the economy, as well.  Manufacturing activity slumped to its lowest level in 16 years during October, the Australian Industry (AI) Group-PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian performance of Manufacturing Index (PMI) said.  The index fell 6.8 index points to 40.4 points in October, its lowest level since the series began in 1992.  Annual house prices in Australia's capital cities are growing at their slowest pace in nearly three years, new data shows.  Prices fell by 1.8% on average in the three months to September for an annual growth rate of just 2.8%, the latest ABS house price index shows.  Economists had expected just a 0.5% fall during the quarter.  Job ads tumble  Jobs advertised online and in newspapers tumbled 5.9% in October to an average of 231,135 per week, bringing it 9.8% lower than a year ago at this time, according to ANZ Bank, which prepared the monthly survey.  That's the biggest monthly drop since February of 2001. In trend terms, total job ads dropped 2.6% in October.
