About Symphony : Symphony Services helps enterprises leverage the global economy to gain competitive advantage. Symphony combines core competencies in complex analytics and software engineering with deep domain knowledge and process expertise to deliver measurable value to clients. The company&amp;#8217;s three service lines offer end-to-end solutions across vertical markets and functions: Commercial Software Solutions delivers increased productivity and faster time-to-market for software products; Market Analytics Solutions enables better decisions, more predictable results and opportunities to increase revenue; and Spend Management Solutions provides indirect expense insight and visibility for optimized performance. Symphony Services was started in the year 2002.Symphony Services is headquartered in Palo Alto, CA, with North American locations in Dallas, TX, Nashville, TN, and Waltham, MA; and India locations in Bangalore, Mumbai and Pune. We are rated at CMMI Level 4 with Six Sigma process proficiency with major customers like:SBC, Verizon, Viacom, GM, Information Resources, Siebel, Hyperion, Morgan Stanley, J&amp;amp;J, Shell, PWC, Bank of America, Autodesk, Manugistics, Trilogy, Yahoo, Texas Instruments, Kazeon.We have world-class talent with more than 2000 professionals.For more information on Symphony Services, please visit the Web site at www.symphonysv.com , or call (650) 935-9500 in the U.S. or (080) 41298400 in India.. JobTitle:Sr. Websphere Admin Experience:3 - 6 Years Skills:Websphere Desired: The WebSphere administrator is an individual with extensive product knowledge who primarily configures maintains and troubleshoots our customers facing sites using IBM WebSphere Commerce V6.0/6.1. This administration professional has a strong understanding of how the product components interact and the capabilities of the technology. They should be proficient in configuration and tuning concepts relating to the healthy day to day operation of a WebSphere Commerce runtime environment. This individual should be experienced in multi-tier, clustered and non-clustered configurations with multiple environments for supporting J2EE development teams (Developer Integration, Quality Assurance / User Acceptance, Staging and Production, for example). Location:Bengaluru/Bangalore Education: Any Graduate - Any Specialization / Any PG Course - Any Specialization Apply:Send Your CV to mmani(AT)symphonysv.com Email Subject: &amp;#8220;Profile from jobblogr.com&amp;#8221; Venue: Symphony Symphony Innovation and Excellence Center Sy.No.13/1, Kadubeesanahalli Village, Outer Ring Road, Varthur Hobli, Bangalore,Karnataka,INDIA 560087 Contact Number:91-080-30271000
