By Chikako Mogi    TOKYO, Nov 6 (Reuters) - Japanese government bonds rose on Thursday as a slide in Tokyo share prices revived investors&amp;#039; appetite for safe-haven government debt securities.    The Nikkei share average extended losses to fall more than 6 percent, hurt by a firmer yen and after U.S. stocks sank on dismal economic data on Wednesday that offered further evidence of a slumping economy.    U.S. Treasuries gained on the U.S. stock market decline.    &amp;#039;It&amp;#039;s natural that JGBs are getting a boost from the slide in share prices,&amp;#039; said Chotaro Morita, head of Japan fixed-income strategy research at Barclays Capital.    He said investors had sat on the sidelines when global financial market turmoil intensified in September and October but were looking to buy bonds for their portfolio allocations for the second half of Japan&amp;#039;s business year now that financial markets have regained some calm.    &amp;#039;Japanese players such as regional banks can&amp;#039;t take the risk in credit or stock investments while lending remains sluggish, so they have little option but to turn to JGBs for investment,&amp;#039; Morita said.    December 10-year JGB futures were up 0.77 point at 138.00 after hitting a high of 138.21, nearly a full point on the day.    The benchmark 10-year yield slipped 3 basis points to 1.495 percent and the five-year yield fell 4.5 basis points to 0.880 percent. The two-year yield was unchanged at 0.545 percent.    The benchmark Nikkei slid 6.5 percent after rising to a three-week closing high on Wednesday. The Nikkei had climbed 11 percent over the previous two days.    Market players said although weak Tokyo shares underpinned government debt on Thursday, a further decline in equities could revive concerns of bonds being sold by investors to offset losses in their stock holdings.    Traders and analysts said shorter- and medium-term maturities were underpinned by the Bank of Japan&amp;#039;s rate cut last week, the first in seven years.    Despite the rate cut, money market rates, particularly on terms out to a week and beyond, remained high as market liquidity remained tight due to players&amp;#039; reluctance to lend, traders said.    The BOJ was expected to further bolster its funding measures as demand for cash picks up before the year-end.    The tightness in money market rates was limiting a fall in short- to medium-term JGB yields, analysts said.    &amp;#039;Once money market rates stabilise and the impact of the rate cut is felt, yields in short- to medium-term JGB maturities will have more scope to fall,&amp;#039; said Tatsuo Ichikawa, a fixed-income strategist at RBS Securities.    Traders said the Ministry of Finance&amp;#039;s issue of 200 billion yen ($2.05 billion) in 40-year JGBs on Friday was unlikely to have much impact on the broader market due to the relatively small issuance size.    &amp;#039;Life insurers, foreign investors, players who track bond indexes and investors needing the bonds for structured instruments have so far invested in 40-year JGBs,&amp;#039; wrote Akito Fukunaga, a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse, in a note.    &amp;#039;But demand stemming from structured instruments and foreign investors is likely to be weak at the upcoming auction. This means the tender outcome is likely to be swayed by life insurers,&amp;#039; Fukunaga said.    U.S. data released on Wednesday showed that a key gauge of the service sector fell to the lowest since the index was launched in 1997, while U.S. private employers made their deepest job cuts in six years. The data foreshadowed weakness in the key U.S. jobs data due on Friday.    ($1=97.81 Yen)    (Additional reporting by Shinichi Saoshiro; Editing by Michael Watson) Keywords: MARKETS JAPAN JGB    (chikako.mogi@thomsonreuters.com; Reuters Messaging: chikako.mogi.reuters.com@reuters.ne  t; +81-3-6441-1871     COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
