By Kevin Plumberg    HONG KONG, Nov 17 (Reuters) - Asian stocks slipped on Monday in choppy trade, despite some buying of Japanese shares by long-term investors, on expectations corporate results will reflect deteriorating economic conditions until at least the second half of 2009.    Major European stock markets were expected to open as much as 1 percent lower, according financial bookmakers, while U.S. stock market futures were slightly higher after a sharp sell-off on Friday.    Oil prices dipped to within striking distance of last week&amp;#039;s 22-month low after policymakers from both emerging and developed economies who met in Washington chose to leave individual governments to tend their own backyards and did not propose a global response.    Many economies were buckling under the worst financial crisis in a generation, with a report on Monday confirming that Japan has joined a growing list of economies sliding into recessions.    Despite mostly sound fundamentals, markets are essentially pricing in a re-run of the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis, worried about the region&amp;#039;s reliance on export-driven growth and trade financing.    &amp;#039;This means that export-dependent Asia is facing a double whammy just at the wrong time: an already weakened external demand is being constricted by tight credit conditions,&amp;#039; United Overseas Bank economists said in a note.    &amp;#039;If history repeats, this would suggest that Asia should see a fairly challenging first half of 2009 as the momentum of declines gathers speed,&amp;#039; they said.    The MSCI index of Asia-Pacific stocks outside of Japan  fell 1.75 percent, extending last week&amp;#039;s 9.7 drop. Year-to-date losses have piled up to around 57 percent.    Hong Kong&amp;#039;s Hang Seng index was little changed in choppy trade, with shares of Hong Kong Exchanges &amp;amp;amp; Clearing  one of the biggest percentage losers as investors expected withering volumes to hurt the company&amp;#039;s bottom line more.    Airline stocks such as Air China, China Eastern Airlines and China Southern Airlines  rallied on hopes they will get government cash injections to cope with high costs and weak demand.    Tokyo&amp;#039;s Nikkei share average recovered from early losses, edging up 0.7 percent, as the yen fell and as public pension fund managers snapped up cheap stocks. Some of the stocks lifting the index, such as Takeda Pharmaceutical, were so-called defensive plays, which were expected to perform relatively well in a slowdown.    STOCKS CHEAP BUT DEMAND THIN    Many analysts were not predicting a near-term improvement in market sentiment. Financial markets and economies remained locked in a vicious circle, with weakness in one affecting the other.    Equity capital flows into developed markets over the last month were at near record lows, according to State Street Global Markets analysts. Savage selling in global stock markets has made prices very cheap but investors have not judged the coast clear enough to buy wholesale yet.    &amp;#039;State Streets analysis of the long-run price-earnings multiple suggests valuations are now at levels only seen in extreme periods of dislocation such as the hyperinflationary 1970s and World War Two. However, stocks can stay cheap if there is no demand to buy them,&amp;#039; the analysts said in a note.    The yen fell against the euro and the U.S. dollar after a report showed Japan&amp;#039;s gross domestic product shrank by 0.1 percent in the July-to-September period and government officials said the situation could worsen further.    However, with the process of widespread risk reduction still very much intact, dealers did not expect the yen to stay down for long.    The U.S. dollar was nearly flat at 96.96 yen after solid gains earlier in the day, and the euro fell 0.3 percent to 121.90 yen.    U.S. Treasuries pared earlier gains as equity markets rebounded and U.S. stock futures flipped to positive on the day. The benchmark 10-year note was unchanged, with a yield of 3.73 percent.    U.S. light crude for December delivery fell about $1 to $56.06 a barrel, near the $54.67 a barrel low it hit on Thursday, its weakest since January 2007.    &amp;#039;G20 leaders may have urged fast action to deal with the global financial crisis, but concern over the weakened international economic outlook still weighs heavily,&amp;#039; said David Moore, a commodities strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.    The Group of 20 world leaders agreed Saturday to a raft of fiscal and monetary steps to rescue the global economy, but it was left to individual governments to tailor their response to their particular circumstances.    (Additional reporting by Fayen Wong in PERTH and Fang Yan in SHANGHAI; Editing by Lincoln Feast) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL    (Reuters Messaging:kevin.plumberg.reuters.co  m@reuters.net Email: kevin.plumberg@thomsonreuters.com; +852 2843-6370)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
