By Kevin Plumberg    HONG KONG, Nov 4 (Reuters) - Japan&amp;#039;s Nikkei index rose nearly 6 percent on Tuesday, playing catch-up after a holiday, but other stock gains were tame after reports pointed to a shrivelling U.S. economy ahead of the presidential election.    Major European share indexes were expected to open little changed, according to financial bookmakers, as investors digested the latest batch of weakening earnings, including those from Swiss bank UBS AG and Swiss Re, the world&amp;#039;s second-biggest reinsurer.    The elimination of uncertainty surrounding the election could provide a short-term boost to the U.S. dollar and equities, though the longer-term impact on investor sentiment, especially with regard to rescue policies shaped only in the last several weeks, was unclear.    &amp;#039;Depending on the actual results, the U.S. election may provide some support to markets globally as it may be seen as the promise of more fiscal stimulus, particularly if Obama wins the election,&amp;#039; currency strategists with Calyon in Hong Kong said in a note.    Meanwhile, Australia&amp;#039;s central bank cut its cash rate by a bigger-than-expected three quarters of a percentage point, weighing on the Australian dollar.    The Nikkei ended the day up 6.3 percent after a holiday on Monday, having rallied nearly 30 percent from a 26-year intraday low hit a week ago.    Asia-Pacific stocks traded outside Japan slipped 0.8 percent, according to an MSCI index, snapping a five-day winning streak. The index has retraced a third of the decline that happened in the wake of Lehman Brothers&amp;#039; collapse in mid-September, and was just shy of a 38.2 percent rebound, a key technical obstacle.    South Korea&amp;#039;s KOSPI rose 2.2 percent, up for a second day after the government unveiled an additional $11 billion in tax cuts and other measures to boost the economy.    Australia&amp;#039;s benchmark S&amp;amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index finished hardly changed, cutting losses after the Reserve Bank of Australia&amp;#039;s deep cut gave a boost to bank and retailer shares.    CUT, CUT, CUT    The European Central Bank and the Bank of England will probably both cut rates after they meet on Thursday, as policymakers race to keep their economies tumbling into deep recessions.    Global manufacturing activity contracted for a fifth consecutive month in October, falling to a record low, a JP Morgan Global Manufacturing PMI survey showed, and U.S. car sales dropped by a third to the lowest in 25 years.    Furthermore forecasts for growth in big energy consuming countries has been scaled back. For example, Credit Suisse cut its forecast for 2009 gross domestic product growth to 7.2 percent from 8.8 percent.    Synchronised rate cutting by central banks around the world as well as emergency government spending packages worth some $4 trillion have brought back investors from pushing markets down an abyss. However, some analysts say it may be premature to dive back into risky assets.    &amp;#039;We expect another major episode of risk aversion to take hold of markets in the near future, with the potential for commodities and stocks to hit new lows for the year. This would bode well for the yen and short ends of G-3 bonds,&amp;#039; said Dariusz Kowalczyk, chief investment strategist with CFC Seymour in Hong Kong.    The euro fell by as much as 1.5 percent to 123.43 yen  but later trimmed its losses to stand at 124.35 yen, down 0.8 percent on the day. The euro fell to a 6-1/2-year low around 113.62 yen in late October.    The dollar slipped 0.5 percent to 98.62 yen.    Traders said the dollar may have a hard time rising above the psychologically important 100.00 yen level in the near term as Japanese exporters were expected to sell dollars to repatriate their profits near that level.    Commodity prices have been clobbered on expectations of easing demand.    U.S. crude for December delivery was trading down 14 cents, or 0.2 percent, at $63.78 a barrel, after settling down $3.90 on Monday.    Gold in the spot market rose 0.5 percent to $726.25, though weak physical demand kept a lid on prices.    (Editing by Lincoln Feast)    ((For the state of play of Asian stock markets please click on: )) Keywords: MARKETS GLOBAL    (Reuters Messaging:kevin.plumberg.reuters.co  m@reuters.net Email: kevin.plumberg@thomsonreuters.com; +852 2843-6370)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
