NEWS    - Top banks SocGen, HBOS and Commerzbank suffer    - South Korea to pump $11 billion into economy    - Rate cuts seen in euro zone, Britain, Australia    - Euro zone in technical recession-EU    - Richmond Federal Reserve Bank president - U.S. economy    contracting    - China manufacturing sector weakens in Oct-CLSA survey    - India at 3-year low, another survey says.    - Britain&amp;#039;s Brown expects Saudi Arabia to give money to IMF    MARKETS    - Oil falls below $66 on demand concerns    - OPEC oil output falls in Oct - Reuters survey    - MSCI stock index up 0.3 pct on Asian shares    (Japan closed for holiday)    - FTSEurofirst 300 down 0.5 pct    - U.S. dollar at 98.460 yen; euro at $1.2806    - Dow down 0.1; Nasdaq flat    QUOTES    &amp;#039;The focus this week is clearly on some of the major central    banks and it is hard not to see the disease that started in the    United States spreading to other economies.&amp;#039; - Robert Rennie,    chief currency strategist at Westpac in Sydney.    &amp;#039;Some weeks back, what were needed were coordinated global    policy responses. Though there have been a few wobbles and maybe    less coordination than ideal, it is difficult not to look back    and consider that we are moving in the right direction.&amp;#039; Patrick    Bennett, Asia foreign exchange and rates strategist with Societe    Generale in Hong Kong.    COMING EVENTS    Monday, Nov. 3    MARSEILLES, France - Eurogroup of finance ministers meeting.    HELSINKI - Head of IMF mission to Finland holds news    conference on fund&amp;#039;s annual country review.    WASHINGTON- U.S. Commerce Dept issues Construction spending    for September    Tuesday, Nov 4    SYDNEY - Reserve Bank of Australia holds monthly policy    meeting    (Compiled by World Desk, London +44 20 7542 7923)    Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT 1510 GMT    (Full coverage of the financial crisis)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
