 WELLINGTON, Aug 27 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar rebounded on Wednesday as a survey showed a solid improvement in business confidence.The kiwi, which had struggled for the past two days in the face of a stronger U.S. currency and renewed risk aversion, rebounded as the National Bank of New Zealand survey suggested some relief for the battered economy.It also benefited from a rise in commodity prices and a steadying in the U.S. dollar. 'The kiwi has been a passenger in the U.S. dollar profit taking, and also the National Bank survey bounce in confidence, helped kiwi to outperform,' said RBC Capital Markets senior currency strategist Sue Trinh, noting however that the kiwi remained range bound.At 0500 GMT the New Zealand dollar was at $0.7020/28 from $0.6967/72 in late local trading on Tuesday. It traded a local range of $0.6943 to $0.7028.Near term support is seen at $0.6975 with $0.7060 the resistance level.The National Bank's August survey showed a net 4.7 percent of respondents expected their own business to improve from 8.2 percent forecasting a deterioration in the July survey. The headline measure showed a pessimism level of 20.5 percent against 43.2 percent last month. See [nWEL312201]. 'Slowly but surely a base is forming, from which the economy will recover,' said ANZ-National Bank NZ chief economist Cameron Bagrie, cautioning that any growth would be 'anaemic'. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand's rate cut in July, along with a lower NZ dollar and falls in oil prices were seen as some reasons for the rebound in sentiment.However, the survey also showed expectations of lower profits and investment, job losses and higher prices.The survey did nothing to alter expectations of a further 25 basis point rate cut from the Reserve Bank at its Sept. 11 monetary statement.New Zealand bonds rose for a second day, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond , which moves inversely to the price, two basis points lower at 6.03 percent. (Reporting by Gyles Beckford) 
