 ONE of Australia's leading bankers yesterday said banks could cut interest rates immediately - if they wanted to. Macquarie Banks' interest rate strategist Rory Robertson said that while families grappled with sky-high mortgages and soaring fuel and food costs, banks had been getting a break on their own borrowings amid signs of another year of record profits. 'Given the sharp rally in local interest rate markets, banks could cut mortgage rates today if they wanted,' Mr Robertson, a former Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) employee, said.In his regular bulletin, Mr Robertson said: 'After all, one of the majors (Westpac) last week reported robust revenue growth of 8-9 per cent anticipated and was on track for 6-8 per cent cash earnings growth for 2008. 'Other banks will grow their profits despite difficult conditions globally.If banks decided to pass on one interest rate cut, the average family on a mortgage of $400,000 would save $70 a month.Mr Robertson's comments come as money markets said it was 100 per cent certain the RBA would cut the official cash rate when it met on September 2.Backing up his conviction that the banks were doing fine was a 5 per cent fall in the interest rate banks are charged to borrow the money they loan to customers. The rate - known as the 90-day bank-bill-rate - has fallen from 7.7 per cent to 7.32 per cent in less than two weeks, effectively the same as over .25 basis point interest rate rises.Banks source around 50 per cent of the money they lend to customers through this facility, also known as the short-term money market. 'A key fact here is that the 90-day-bank-bill rate has fallen sharply over the past 10 days,' Mr Robertson said. He said banks wouldn't move before the Reserve Bank, despite adding 50 basis point of their own to the 100 basis point increases inflicted by the Reserve over the past 12 months. 'I suspect the major banks will follow any initial 25 basis points RBA cut with a 20-25 basis point cut in mortgage rates, whereas a 50 basis point RBA cut might be followed by a 40-50 basis point cut in mortgage rates.' Aussie Home Loans boss John Symond doesn't believe banks could or would drop their rates so soon.He said banks would take every opportunity to regain profits lost to the global credit crisis and a cut in home loan rates could come, but only after the Reserve Bank made the first move. 'It wouldn't surprise me to see one of the big four break ranks,' Mr Symond said. 'Then we might start seeing some competition but it's not a foregone conclusion. None of them will give an undertaking to pass on the full cut.' He suggested the chief executives of the big four - Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, ANZ and NAB - had probably been contacted by Canberra in recent weeks. 'I imagine there would've been phone calls from higher up, given there's big profits coming out,' Mr Symond said. The banks' cry of poor is becoming increasingly hollow. Bendigo Bank yesterday announced net profit to June, 2008 was $170.5 million, up from $121.8 million in 2006/07.Commonwealth is expected to post a $4.823 billion profit when it releases results tomorrow.Share this article What is this?  ONE of Australias leading bankers yesterday said banks could cut interest rates immediately - if they wanted to. Macquarie Banks interest rate strategist Rory Robertson said that while families grappled with sky-high mortgages and soaring fuel and food costs, banks had been getting a break on their own borrowings amid signs of another year of record profits. 'Given the sharp rally in local interest rate markets, banks could cut mortgage rates today if they wanted,' Mr Robertson, a former Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) employee, said.In h... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/dailytelegraph/story/0,22049,24163541-5001021,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
