  U.S. stock futures are moderately lower ahead of the open, indicative of a potentially negative start to the regular session of trading. In overseas trading, Japanese shares broke a 4-session losing streak, while markets in London were closed for holiday. In focus this morning is a ratings warning for American International Group (AIG), rumors regarding the potential ousting of Lehman Brothers' (LEH) chief executive, and merger-and-acquisition news for Broadcom (BRCM) and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). Turning to currencies and commodities, the U.S. Dollar Index is hovering around breakeven in pre-market activity, dawdling near 76.82. Meanwhile, gold for December delivery has lost about $5.20, trading around $828.30 an ounce. Elsewhere, after marking its biggest percentage drop in 4 years on Friday, crude-oil prices are flirting with the $115.50-per-barrel marker ahead of the bell. Making headlines this morning was American International Group (AIG: sentiment, chart, options) , with Fitch Ratings warning that it could downgrade the insurance giant's ratings. More specifically, Fitch noted uncertainty about AIG's business-unit review, as well as additional losses on its residential mortgage-backed securities-related exposures. Elsewhere, a top regulator this morning voiced concern regarding Korea Development Bank's interest in purchasing financial firm Lehman Brothers (LEH: sentiment, chart, options) . The regulator opined that 'it appears burdensome for a state-run institution to play a leading role' in the purchase of a foreign company, commenting that KDB should play a 'cheerleader role' instead. Meanwhile, U.K. newspaper The Observer reported that Richard Fuld, Lehman's chief executive, is facing an internal campaign to oust him by the end of the year.In other merger-and-acquisition news, Broadcom (BRCM: sentiment, chart, options) will pay around $192.8 million in cash to acquire chipmaker Advanced Micro Devices' (AMD: sentiment, chart, options) digital TV business. The acquisition will form the core of Broadcom's DTV business. AMD CEO Dirk Meyer said the sale is a 'key step in AMD's transformation, helping to strengthen our balance sheet, lower our breakeven point, and hone our focus in order to take full advantage of our position as a leader in both microprocessors and graphics technology.' The deal is expected to close during the fourth quarter. Earnings PreviewCompanies expected to step into the earnings confessional today include: A-Power Energy (APWR) and Thornburg Mortgage (TMA), amongst others. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.comEconomic CalendarThe economic calendar starts the week off light with only July's existing home sales data on tap. Meanwhile, Tuesday will feature new home sales figures, the latest consumer confidence report, and the Federal Open Market Committee meeting minutes. Headlining the economic calendar on Wednesday is the usual crude inventories report, as well as the latest month's durable goods data. On Thursday, the Street will be graced with the preliminary Gross Domestic Product (GDP) figures, while Friday rounds out the week with July's personal income and spending data, as well as the latest Chicago Purchasing Managers Index (PMI).Market StatisticsEquity option activity on the CBOE saw 966,554 call contracts traded on Friday, compared to 577,525 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio fell to 0.60, while the 21-day moving average slipped to 0.71.**The volume data shown above is from the Nasdaq and NYSE exchanges only. It does not include regional volume activity, which means that other daily volume quotes you see may be higher.** Overseas TradingOverseas trading is mixed this morning, with 7 of the 11 foreign indices that we track in positive territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a gain of 0.58%. In Japan, stocks snapped a 4-session losing streak, as investors - likely encouraged by Wall Street's performance on Friday - did a bit of bargain hunting. Elsewhere, refiners and financials were trading higher in China, as investors await potential government measures to support prices following the close of the Beijing Olympics. Across the pond in Europe, volume was thin, with the London Stock Exchange closed for a local holiday. Meanwhile, engineering company Alstom was making headlines, after the Swiss attorney general announced a probe into alleged bribery at the firm. Elsewhere, shares of Allianz (AZ) ticked higher in the wake of speculation regarding a potential merger of its Dresdner Bank division with Commerzbank. The U.S. Dollar Index (DX/Y) added 0.7% on Friday to close at 76.76. A pullback in crude-oil prices and a speech from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke provided a boost for the greenback, while the British pound tumbled after revised data showed the U.K. economy ground to a halt in the second quarter. Against this backdrop, the euro fell to $1.478 on Friday, while the dollar rose to 110.08 yen. The futures contract on the 30-year bond (US/1 - 117'22) slipped 1/32 on Friday, as Treasurys finished the day slightly lower, providing lift for yields. While strength in the equities market weighed on bonds in early trading, the fixed-income market remained lower after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said growth will remain weak and he expects inflation to moderate later this year. The central bank is 'committed to achieving medium-term price stability and will act as necessary to attain that objective,' Bernanke said in comments to the central bank's annual meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.Commodity CornerFalling oil prices and a stronger dollar weighed on gold on Friday, but a weekly gain was still in the cards for the malleable metal. December-dated gold slipped $5.50 to close at $828.20 an ounce. The dollar received a boost after revised data from the U.K. showed that its economy started to sputter in the second quarter. In addition, Ben Bernanke's comments bolstered dollar investors, helping to lessen the safe-haven allure of gold. Despite the loss, gold rounded out the week 5.2% higher as concerns over the credit crunch and the situation with Russia drove investors to the precious commodity.After a massive gain on Thursday, crude oil gave it all back and more on Friday. The October contract dropped 5.4% ($6.59) to round out the session at $114.59 per barrel. Reports surfaced that Russia called its pullback from most Georgian territories complete, which eased concerns over tensions between Russia and the United States. As the tensions eased, so did the per-barrel price of crude. The loss for crude wasn't based on overseas tensions alone; concerns over demand also added to the drop. For the week, oil managed to scratch out a gain of 0.6%, thanks to its 3-day winning streak in the middle of the week.Unusual Put and Call Activity:For an explanation of how to use this information, check out our Education Center topics on Option Volume and Open Interest Configurations.To read more of our analysis on the market's biggest stories, please visit our Schaeffer's Daily Market Blog section throughout the trading day.
