 By Janine Ogier Doom and gloom messages signal change is afoot in the New Zealand economy and the job market in the next 18 months will not escape the negativity. But there is good and bad news for workers. 'We think the New Zealand economy is sitting at the precipice of a labour market downturn, the first for a decade,' says Westpac economist Dominick Stephens. 'It is going to unfold slowly and steadily.' An additional 27,000 people will be unemployed, on top of the 8000 job losses mentioned in the latest figures from Statistics New Zealand, Westpac forecasts. Plus, unemployment will rise from 3.9 per cent to 5 per cent.ASB chief economist Nick Tuffley predicts unemployment will be around 5.5 per cent by 2010, while ANZ Bank chief economist Cameron Bagrie forecasts the jobless rate will be 5-6 per cent in that timeframe.But it is not a disaster. 'That is a big shift from where the unemployment rate is now, but over history that is still a pretty low rate,' Bagrie says. 'If we can get away with a peak of 5.5 per cent, it will still be a good news story.' Unfortunately, the downturn will disproportionately affect Auckland as Auckland has no dairy factories and lots of houses. The finance, real estate, residential construction and retailing industries will be hardest hit. 'For the last five years the New Zealand economy has been driven by house price increases and unsustainable spending which has created jobs in those four areas,' says Stephens. Kiwis' spending and borrowing binge is over and it is the primary and export-oriented industries which are booming. Sky high world commodity prices and a lower NZ dollar are promoting a resurgence in manufacturing and opportunities in agriculture and mining and services associated with those industries. 'The rural areas are experiencing a boom while urban areas are experiencing the crashing down of a previous unsustainable boom,' Stephens says. There will be more jobs in export-related industries. This is explained by a cyclical rotation from the spending sector to the export sector, ANZ's Bagrie says. 'In a lot of industries - IT, anything to do with KiwiSaver, health, education and agriculture - there are some astonishing skills shortages across the country. 'In other sectors, growth in the economy is anaemic. In fact we are heading backwards,' he says. 'So there is more attention from firms to costs. I am not predicting wholesale redundancies, but firms are looking to whether they will replace leaving staff. 'Firms are very much in a holding pattern at the moment and people are more cautious,' Bagrie says. The further north in the country, the weaker the environment is.
