 WELLINGTON, Aug 27 (Reuters) - The New Zealand dollar  rebounded onWednesday as a survey showed a solid improvement in business confidence.     The kiwi, which had struggled for the past two days in the face of astronger U.S. currency and renewed risk aversion, rebounded as the National Bankof New Zealand survey suggested some relief for the battered economy.     It also benefited from a rise in commodity prices and a steadying in theU.S. dollar.     'The kiwi has been a passenger in the U.S. dollar profit taking, and alsothe National Bank survey bounce in confidence, helped kiwi to outperform,' saidRBC Capital Markets senior currency strategist Sue Trinh, noting however thatthe kiwi remained range bound.     At 0500 GMT the New Zealand dollar was at $0.7020/28 from $0.6967/72 in latelocal trading on Tuesday. It traded a local range of $0.6943 to $0.7028.     Near term support is seen at $0.6975 with $0.7060 the resistance level.     The National Bank's August survey showed a net 4.7 percent of respondentsexpected their own business to improve from 8.2 percent forecasting adeterioration in the July survey. The headline measure showed a pessimism levelof 20.5 percent against 43.2 percent last month. See [nWEL312201].     'Slowly but surely a base is forming, from which the economy will recover,'said ANZ-National Bank NZ chief economist Cameron Bagrie, cautioning that anygrowth would be 'anaemic'.     The Reserve Bank of New Zealand's rate cut in July, along with a lower NZdollar and falls in oil prices were seen as some reasons for the rebound insentiment.     However, the survey also showed expectations of lower profits andinvestment, job losses and higher prices.     The survey did nothing to alter expectations of a further 25 basis pointrate cut from the Reserve Bank at its Sept. 11 monetary statement.     New Zealand bonds rose for a second day, with the yield on the benchmark10-year government bond , which moves inversely to the price, twobasis points lower at 6.03 percent.    (Reporting by Gyles Beckford).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content,including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the priorwritten consent of Thomson Financial News.
