 HONG KONG  Oil rose above $116 a barrel today, boosting recently beaten-down commodity prices and stoking inflation fears, which hit shares in the financial sector. European equities were expected to open slightly higher, led by strength in mining and energy shares with investors also bracing for euro zone gross domestic product data due later. The popular trade of betting on strength in raw materials prices because of solid growth in developing countries while selling off the unstable financial sector had been seriously tested in recent weeks as the US dollar rallied to a six-month high against the euro.However, a US government report yesterday showing a decline in crude inventories has investors thinking about resource scarcity again, proving bets on higher oil prices are difficult to reverse completely even with the US dollar showing sustained strength.The September contract for US light crude edged up 44 cents to $116,45 a barrel in early trade, after jumping $3 overnight. On Tuesday, crude dropped to a three-month low of $112,31 and is still more than 20% below a record $147,27 reached a month ago.Metals prices marched higher in tandem with oil, with gold up 0,7% to $831,30 an ounce after touching a 2008 low just below $802 on Tuesday.Resource-related shares in Japan such as Sumitomo Metal Mining Co Ltd and shipping firm Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd were among the top percentage gainers in the Nikkei share average. However, worries about Japans economy pushed the index down 0,5%, led by shares of Softbank Corp, Japans third-biggest mobile phone operator, which fell 4,6%. Even though the GDP matched expectations, the fact that it showed falling consumption and weaker exports has forced people to realise once again that things really arent good with the economy, said Takashi Ushio, head of the investment strategy division of Marusan Securities.Data yesterday showed Japans economy shrank in the second quarter at the sharpest pace since its last recession in 2001, keeping intact expectations for steady rates. The MSCI Asia-Pacific ex-Japan index edged up 0,1% but is still down more than 30% since hitting an all-time high last November. It fell to a 17-month low yesterday. Australias benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 index rose 0,6%, led by top mining firms BHP Billiton Ltd and Rio Tinto Ltd But the countrys major banks all dragged on the index. Hong Kongs Hang Seng index slipped 0,1%. Shanghais composite index fell 0,6%, holding slightly above yesterdays 19-month low, as data showed Chinas industrial output growth in the first seven months of the year slowed markedly.Despite the rally in crude prices, many analysts do not think the short-term downward trend in commodity prices has changed, especially with growth data in both developed and emerging markets reflecting a slowdown. Yesterdays 2,4% rise in the Reuters-Jefferies CRB index of 19 commodity futures did not come very close to testing a trendline that stretched down from an all-time high hit in early July. Europe is starting to weaken and Japan is on the verge of a recession. Commodities thrive on good news and there is not much of that about, said Mark Pervan, senior commodity analyst with Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd in Sydney.Crude prices rose despite strength in the US dollar. The two have often traded very closely together, with a decline in one coinciding with a rise in the other.Yet, the euro was down 0,2% to $1,4887 creeping back down toward the six-month low around $1,4812 hit on Tuesday. Against the yen, the dollar slipped 0,1% to 109,52 about 1 below a seven-month high hit earlier in the week.Few indications in the market showed investors had regained their willingness to take bigger risks for higher returns, an environment that favours government bonds and hurts high-yielding currencies.Indeed, the Australian dollar was down 0,5% to $0,8705 and the New Zealand dollar fell 0,4% to $0,6995. Ten-year Japanese government bond futures climbed to a four-month high, having risen 4,3% in the last two months. 
