 WELLINGTON, Aug 4 (Reuters) - New Zealand wage costs rose as as expected and employment grew in the second quarter, pointing to a still relatively tight labour market but not altering views the central bank will cut interest rates further. The key private sector labour cost index (LCI) rose 0.8 percent on during the April-June period, in line with economists' forecasts in a Reuters poll, and compared with a 0.7 percent rise in the first quarter. 'The Reserve Bank has already started the easing cycle and this certainly won't prevent that continuing,' said UBS senior economist Robin Clements. The New Zealand dollar  was a hint softer after the data, settling around $0.7270/80. Debt was unmoved. Last month, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut interest rates by a quarter point to 8 percent, its first easing in five years, to support an economy widely seen in recession. All 17 economists surveyed by Reuters expect the central bank to cut rates again at the next review on Sept. 11, with a majority predicting the cash rate to fall to 7.25 percent by the end of the year. RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard said in a speech to a business group last week that he saw plenty of room for further rate cuts as the slowing economy weakens and inflation pressure eases. Bollard also said inflation expectations appeared to be holding steady but the central bank would respond if the impact of high oil and food prices spilled over into the broader economy. Statistics New Zealand (SNZ) said the annual rate of wage growth was steady at a record high of 3.5 percent, a touch lower than the 3.6 percent forecast by economists. The rise in the LCI was lead by higher wages in the mining, health and finance sectors, SNZ said. The quarterly employment survey, released at the same time, showed seasonally adjusted filled jobs rose 1.7 percent following a 2.4 percent drop in the previous quarter, while total paid hours increased 0.5 percent. Analysts said the employment data showed the labour market was still solid and might point to some strength in second quarter jobs data, due on Thursday, but a weakening economy should gradually weigh down on the market. 'Given this is a lagging indicator it's not surprising that wage growth remains elevated, and we suspect the peak is close,' said Khoon Goh, senior economist at ANZ-National Bank. The unemployment rate is expected to rise to 3.8 percent in the June quarter, while employment is predicted to rise 0.1 percent after falling 1.3 percent in the first quarter, according to a Reuters poll. A survey of businesses by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research last month showed a net 3 percent shed staff in the June quarter, while a net 6 percent planned to cut staff over the next three months.(Reporting by Kazunori Takada; Editing by James Thornhill).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
