 NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks fell on Thursday as news of a big loss at insurer American International Group rattled investors and Wal-Mart Stores Inc missed July sales forecasts, heightening concerns about consumer spending and the profit outlook.  Adding to investor unease following two days of market gains was a government report showing the number of people filing for jobless benefits in the latest week jumped to the highest in more than six years.Shares of AIG, the world's largest insurance company, fell 17 percent to $24.02, their biggest fall in more than two decades. Wal-Mart shares declined more than 4 percent. The S&amp;amp;P financial services and retail sectors both declined about 2 percent. 'We still believe that there is weakness in the economy; however, there is also inflation,' said Rob Stein, managing partner of Chicago-based Astor Asset Management. 'This morning's numbers on jobless claims continued to support the thesis that job creation is minimal, if not negative.' The Dow Jones industrial average fell 102.59 points, or 0.88 percent, to 11,553.48. The Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 Index declined 9.16 points, or 0.71 percent, to 1,280.03. The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 6.68 points, or 0.28 percent, to 2,371.69.AIG said late on Wednesday it lost $5.36 billion, its third straight quarterly loss. The insurer, whose stock dropped to $23.93 on the New York Stock Exchange, was hurt by losses stemming from soured mortgage-related investments.Investors took AIG news as suggesting that fallout from the credit crisis, spawned by the U.S. housing slump, was far from over. They said the market may have gotten ahead of itself during the past two days of strong gains. 'AIG has dampened the recent momentum,' said Andre Bakhos, president of Princeton Financial in Princeton, New Jersey. 'The bears were looking for a reason to sell and AIG provided it.' Citigroup Inc fell 3 percent to $19.02 on the NYSE after the Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said the bank had agreed to give back to investors more than $7 billion of money from auction-rate securities.Wal-Mart's 3 percent rise sales at U.S. stores open at least a year missed Wall Street estimates and was accompanied by a cautious forecast for August. Its shares declined to $58.25.On Nasdaq, VeriSign Inc , which makes switchboards that direct Internet traffic, fell 13.1 percent to $29.45 a day after the company reported a wider quarterly loss.But on the bright side, shares of home builders inched higher after a report by the National Association of Realtors showed U.S. pending home sales unexpectedly rose in June. The Dow home construction index .D climbed 0.3 percent.(Additional reporting by Walter Brandimarte; Editing by Kenneth Barry)
