 with the Dow Jones Industrial Average hit with its biggest point decline in more than a month, as concerns about the financial sector weighed on sentiment and housing data failed to appease investors' unease. 'Financial stresses are still permeating global financial systems, despite massive accommodation from the Fed,' said analysts at Action Economics. Down for the first in four sessions, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJI) fell 241.81 points, or 2.1%, to 11,386.25. All of the Dow's 30 components finished in the red, with the losses led by insurance giant American International Group Inc. (AIG), down 5.5% after Credit Suisse analysts lowered their third-quarter profit estimate and target price on the insurance giant. The S&amp;amp;P 500 Index (SPX) was off 25.36 points, or 2%, to 1,266.84, with all of the index's 10 industry groups tallying losses -- which by the close was fronted by financials, off 2.7%, then consumer discretionary, down 2.5%, followed by materials, off 2%. Among the hardest hit, shares of Huntington Bancshares Inc. (HBAN) declined 6.8%, while Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) fell 6.7%. Capital demands Shares of Freddie Mac (FRE) jumped 17.1% as solid demand for a $2 billion debt auction showed the troubled mortgage entity is still able to raise capital, even if the markets demand higher yields. . Shares of Freddie counterpart Fannie Mae (FNM) were up 3.8%. Outside the financial sector, shares of Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) were off 4.7% after Citigroup Inc. cut its rating on the Bethpage, N.Y.-based cable operator to sell from buy. . The Nasdaq Composite Index (RIXF) declined 48.75 points, or 2%, to 2,365.96. Trade was particularly light, even for the end of summer, making it likely that any moves were more exaggerated than normal. On the New York Stock Exchange, volume topped 865 million, and declining issues overtook those advancing more than 3 to 1. On the Nasdaq, nearly 593 million shares exchanged hands, and advancers topped decliners, also by a more-than-3-to-1 ratio. Down from the session's start, stock indexes retained their losses after the National Association of Realtors reported existing-home sales rose in July, but inventories also increased, hitting record levels. 'An increase in foreclosures boosted existing-home sales but depressed home prices. The rise in inventory is particularly worrisome,' wrote Lehman Brothers analysts Michelle Meyers and Zach Pandl in an afternoon note. Treasury prices advanced, pushing 10-year yields (UST10Y) to three-month lows, in the wake of the data suggesting the nation remains mired in a housing slowdown. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude futures closed at $115.11 a barrel, up 52 cents. . Elsewhere on the Nymex, gold futures also fell, with the contract for December delivery declining $7.80 to close at $825.70 an ounce. . Weakening oil prices helped the dollar erase earlier losses against most major counterparts, with the dollar index (DXY), which tracks the greenback against a trade-weighted basket of currencies, recently standing at 76.83, up from 76.813 in late North American trading on Friday. . In corporate developments, Canadian energy-services provider Precision Drilling Trust (PDS) plans to buy Grey Wolf Inc. (GW) for an estimated $1.12 billion in cash and 42 million shares of its stock. . But investors offered a less-than-enthusiastic response, with shares off both companies sliding. Overseas, stocks in Europe drifted lower in thin trade, paced by a decline in banking shares. . Elsewhere, Hong Kong and Tokyo stocks staged a strong recovery as investors snapped up financial shares. .
