 Mining companies poured billions of dollars into expansion projects in the June quarter, generating stronger-than-expected investment figures that may give the Reserve Bank cause to slow the pace of any interest rate cuts.Spending by private businesses rose 5.7% in the June quarter, reversing a 2.5% contraction in the first three months of 2008, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. A survey of 23 analysts by Bloomberg forecast quarter-on quarter growth of 2%.Mining investment soared 21% in the quarter as companies rushed to tap higher global commodity prices. Manufacturer, though, cut investment by 2.8%.The dollar strengthened about a third of a US cent to 86.36 as investors reduced bets that the RBA will need to embark on a series of rate cuts to revive growth. The central bank, though, remains all but certain to lower its cash rate to 7% when its board meets on September 2, according to market gauges. 'As much as consumers seem to be slowing down at the moment, I think there's still lot of investment in capacity,' said said economist Michael Turner of the economic forecasting group 4Cast Ltd. 'And it doesn't look like it's slowing down.' Companies shovelled more funds into equipment, plant and machinery, in the June quarter, with the figure rising 8% to $13.2 billion. Spending on buildings and structures fell 0.5% to $9.2 billion, seasonally adjusted, as the 12-year high interest rates pinch growth.The expenditure figure will likely bolster the June quarter gross domestic product reading, also to be released next week.Inflation vs slowdownThe RBA has been trying to balance its fight against inflation which has seen it rachet the cash rate up to 7.25%, against battering spending and confidence so hard the economy tumbles into a recession.Some RBA-watchers have even tipped the cental bank will cut rates as much as half a percentage point next week, to 6.75%, a view that may now lose favour given the strength on company investment. 'The RBA has seen a consumer demand slowdown and relied on business investment holding up,' Mr Turner said. Based on today's spending numbers, Mr Turner said the first 0.5 to 0.75 of a percentage point of rate cuts expected by Christmas looked to be around 'about right.' 'But anything beyond that depends on data to come after Christmas,' he said. Commercial banks have added to the official interest rate pain by jacking up their lending rates to an average of 9.6%, blaming their own higher cost of doing business brought on by the global credit crunch. Australian banks traditionally track their lending rate changes to fluctuations by the RBA.In recent weeks, ANZ Bank and National Australia Bank have pledged to pass along at least some of the RBA's future cuts, while Commonwealth Bank and Westpac won't rule out keeping mortgage rates high.The stronger private business spending comes one day after the value of construction for the June quarter fell more than expected, dropping 2.6%, to a near two-year low. czappone@fairfax.com.au BusinessDay 
