Boston Business Journal  Related News  Bank of America is likely to sell asset manager Columbia Management Group, which it picked up in the 2004 purchase of FleetBoston Financial, the Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday, citing people familiar with the situation.  The bank, Massachusetts' largest when ranked by deposits, is preserving capital and shedding noncore assets, which is why BofA (NYSE: BAC) is expected to also sell First Republic Bank, a private-banking division, that was part of this years purchase of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.  Based in Boston, Columbia had $386 billion in assets under management at the end of last year. Sources told the Wall Street Journal that BofA execs view Columbia as a redundant operation when compared to BlackRock Inc. BofA got a stake in BlackRock through its Merrill Lynch acquisition. The bank isnt considering a sale of the BlackRock stake, the newspaper reported.  mcalvey@bizjournals.com / (415) 288-4950  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Downtown Seattle office rents dive  [Seattle]  Tenants stick with 1501 Wilson Blvd. in Rosslyn  [Washington, D.C.]  CBRE: New space could impact vacancies  [Dallas]  Colliers: Tenants market likely to continue into 2010  [Tampa Bay]  General Growth discusses unsecured notes  [Albuquerque]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Boston  Seattle Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 71,537 SF  Use Type: Sale  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by  Bankruptcy Attorney - confidential  Real Estate Paralegal - Laird Norton Company, LLC  Real Estate Portfolio Manager - Laird Norton Company, LLC  Circulation Sales Director - Puget Sound Business Journal  Government Cost Accountant - Insitu  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Seattle Business Directory  Washington Articles Seattle Articles Advertising Seattle Business Services Seattle Career Seattle Cars Seattle Education Seattle Financial Services Seattle Health Seattle Home Services Seattle Insurance Seattle Internet Seattle Legal Seattle Real Estate Seattle Software Seattle Telecommunications Seattle Travel Seattle  
