  You&amp;#039;re all probably going to lynch me now, but I though it was was time that someone who&amp;#039;s been dealing with this change explain it for all of you on here.  Hopefully you will understand a few things about the way this works.     Personal Reserve - Previously when you went over your overdraft limit you would not know up to what point that Barclays would pay out up till any you would b charged a paid refferal charge plus 27.9% unauthorised interest.  Now with the Personal Reserve you know exactly what you have available to spend up to before your account then stops working and rejecting payments.  The reserve is a good idea as it allows you leeway on your account in case of EMERGENCY.  This also allows you to return funds to your account that working and allow payments to leave your account without charge that working day!!!!  If by close of business that working day you are still over the limit the fee of 22 is then applied the next working day.  This allows the account to remain in the reserve for a total of 5 working days, so weekends and Bank holidays don&amp;#039;t count.  You have until close of business on the 6th working day to return your account into within its limits.  There is NO other charges for making transactions whilst in the limit and NO interest is charged!  If you opt out - The decision on whether to pay an item is based on your AVAILABLE balance at 00:30 of that working day, so any wages will be taken into account.  We cannot reverse any decisions already made after this point even cheques.  Availabe balance includes card authorisations and ATM transactions made after cut off time that are on your account.  Basically in this situation you must ensure funds are available by close of business the working day before.  Any cheques to be returned will not show until they have been removed from clearing which could be later the same day.     I must also point out that Barclays will not refund any of these fees unless it is either Bank error or fraud so there is no point in asking for a manager to refund these as this will not happen.     Cheques - If you pay a cheque in most accounts will have the uncleared limit of 1000 on them, however this is at bank discression and can be removed at any time, because if a cheque is returned unpaid you are liable for the funds.  Some more advise, please do not write out a cheque based on on that you have paid in until it has been fully cleared.  I recommend 7 working days as this is the point that they cannot be returned unpaid after.     I hope this clears up some of the questions.  
