 I&amp;#039;m not trying to scaremonger here but I&amp;#039;m amazed that after doing a search that there are only two threads on this. This is very serious. There are so many threads on here about the Lisbon treaty and what not but this is a far bigger. I don&amp;#039;t think people have grasped how serious this is.      AIG provide about 70% of the worlds insurance cover. Their credit rating has taken a big hit in the past few day, they used to have a AAA rating, the best in the industry afaik. They need to get $75bn(42bn) in the next day or two to survive this. If they go under there will be serious consequences for the world Insurance market. Their own competitors don&amp;#039;t even want to see them go bust.      Even if they ride this out, there will inevitable be job cuts along the line. Its not really a case of if there will be job cuts but more of a case of how many really. Thats to be expected I guess.      Some people think they will be bailed out by the US government but this is unlikely. All this turmoil in the market has been caused by the aggressive drive for more business on the ground in these companies. Some of the practices were overlooked because business was booming.....but one blimp and it has come tumbling down. Obviously it&amp;#039;s not as simple as that but you get the idea. There is a need for market correction and the US government know this. Simply, they cant bail every major institution out even if the world financial market is going into turmoil. In a way all of this may be necessary to get the world back on track.      I am not an expert, I haven&amp;#039;t read any of the mentioned papers. I&amp;#039;m just going on what I know from people in the industry and from my own knowledge of the industry.      As for the people who hold policies with them - well wait and see what happens in the coming days.      Bottom line, if AIG go under, there will be more news like this to follow.      And before people ask, I don&amp;#039;t work for AIG. 
