 GaryS.,  Thank you for your reply.     I found out about the &amp;amp;quot;extended grace period of 27 days&amp;amp;quot; accidentally in a phone conversation with an insurance company customer service person.       I did forget one premium and accidentally discovered I had forgotten.  I promptly paid all premiums due within the 31 day &amp;amp;quot;grace period&amp;amp;quot;.  I bought the policy under the agreement they would send me a monthly statement and I would send a check.  I did that without hitch for about three years, but then the ins. co. said they could not afford the stamp and the monthly statement and said I had to remind myself to pay premiums on time and use their coupon book.  So, I forgot to check my calendar and was slightly late on one payment over about a 5 year period.     So I called customer service and asked just what would happen as far as payout to my beneficiary if I died and had missed a payment.  She told me about the 31 day grace period but she also mentioned an additional 27 day extended grace period.  She indicated that that extended period was also a period in which my beneficiary could collect on the policy.  She seemed to be rather silent on this topic and wanted to change the subject and when I asked her if the 27 day extended grace period was written in my policy, she replied &amp;amp;quot;no, that is not something we really want our policy holders to know about.&amp;amp;quot;  Naturally that sounded illegal to me so I filed a complaint with the Insurance Dept.       Even in their reply to me, they did not make fully clear that the extended period has only to do with right to reinstate policy without having to &amp;amp;quot;requalify.&amp;amp;quot;  I only learned that from your post.     I think all of this information about the grace period ought to be made very clear.     Anyway, I read somewhere in this thread I think that a very small percentage of these kinds of small &amp;amp;quot;whole life&amp;amp;quot; policies ever end up paying out.  I am still looking for some data on that.  Unfortunately it apparently is not one of the functions of the Texas Dept. of Insurance to put out studies and pamplets informing the public about what percentage of the time these policies and these companies actually deliver what they sold.     Of course, the whole economy is going bust now and with AIG&amp;#039;s fall, the whole insurance industry is looking more corrupt than ever, even to those of us in the general public who are uninformed as to accurate and complete insurance data.     I think the average person would be wise to just set aside their premium amount to a separate private fund for their &amp;amp;quot;burial policy&amp;amp;quot; and not send a monthly donation to an insurance company.  But no one will educate the average person about the pitfalls of insurance. 
