 Hi Dee Dee and Dalip     Thank you for your responses.     My car insurance is with Zurich and has been for some years (know all about this get it cheaper malarky but satisfied with the service I was given when I had an accident in 2004, which was not my fault in my sons car, they were outstandingly helpful and got it all done very quickly, son was not happy at all as she hit me up the backside! in his pride and joy car) it is even covered should I run out of petrol, as well as breakdown cover, but I will check that I am right on that. It is fully comprehensive.     AS you say being a lady on my own I took this insurance policy for the benefits it gave to me, and also includes a courtesy car if mine is in for repair due to an accident. I have several years no claim and I think 29 a month is a good deal, maybe others could indicate if they feel it is not a good deal.     Dalip on the figures you have upped, should I now take off the emergency, birthdays etc as otherwise once they take off the child allowance I will be in minus surplus and wont they say that is not a good idea?     I have spoken to someone today in the offices where I work who went BR in June (both him and his wife) at the same court I will have to attend, he told me a clerk dealt with the paperwork, and a couple of things were wrong which he changed and then this person signed against, they then went into see the judge, and like many have said here, he said the judge could not have been nicer, telling them that many people get into this situation and that he the judge was now taking ALL their debt and they could stop worrying, the OR would deal with it all and if they carried on having harrassing phone calls they were to say they were BR and simply give the phone number for thier OR,  they came out the paperwork was dealt with, in the meantime they were taken into a room where the OR then called him.     He went through some things with him, asked for some other paperwork due to his car having lost so much value so quickly, he was told around a week later he could keep the car I think they did an independent valuation on it. He then told me that his credit card is being questioned, ie what he spent the money on, and he has had to supply 3 months statements to the OR. He said this was the only part he got frustrated about, trying to explain what the money was spent on, but none had been spent on large items. He had already spoken with our local CAB who also put him onto the Nat Debtline prior to filing for his and her BR.     My car is not worth what he paid for his, or what his is even worth with the devaluation, and I do need it to get to work, so that is not my worry, I also have letters from a doctor indicating why I need to use the disabled bay in work, although I have no disabled badge, all of which I will copy and put with a letter as to why I would like my car to be exempt, is that the right way to go about this please?     However, the credit card issue, I have no idea what I spent on mine I have not had one since 2005, I certainly do not have any statements left from that time either, due to being in the IVA.     I think this is the area that is worrying me the most, as it is the same with the loans, prior to OH (who did a runner in 2004) moving in here, when my son was 4 I had no loan, no cards and no overdraft. So that would have been in 1998, I know the first loan was offered to me that year, but that one I think I can remember what most of it was spent on. It is the subsequent ones that are bothering me. I know someone said just say you cannot remember but I fear that is going to look pretty dire and not go in my favour. With them being sold on as explained above I have no idea who they were all originally with, but will write to PP and ask them if they can give me copies of everything, hopefully that way I may have more information. If they refuse can the OR obtain more information about them? CAn he get bank statements from my bank who were then Barclays to help sort out when I had them what they appear to be spent on, bearing in mind that account was closed in Feb 2005?     Sorry for all the questions, but I really feel a bit low today so things are probably getting to me, which on a better day may not.     Thank you all again. I will do my SOA again with the changes. And also arrange some house contents insurance.     RL 
