         A lot of you are probably looking at the current crisis, watching your 401K's loose thousands, and you're wondering, what the hell happened?  Well here's a short history so you can better understand.It starts about 15 years ago, when a group of asshole, business friendly congressmen remove blocks set into place during the New Deal.  These blocks were designed to prevent debt speculation, one of the major causes of the loss of confidence in the Stock Market during the Great Depression.  In other words, banks could not act like investors and investors could not act like banks.Before this, when you wanted a loan, you would go to a bank, and sit down in the bank manager's office and explain why.  The bank manager, conscious that he was lending the bank's own money, would carefully examine your credit history, your job status, whether or not you were married, etc. before he took the risk of giving you the money.  Thus, people who could not pay the loan, or even seemed risky were denied.  Those who had a loan, knew who held it.  They could return to that same bank and talk to the bank manager if they could not make a payment, and perhaps work something out.Now though, things were different.  The two biggest loan houses in the country, Freddie Mae and Fannie Mac began marketing in secondary loans.  In other words, they would sell the rights to the loan to someone else, usually at a profit.  Investment brokers went wild.  Loans seemed like the perfect bet; they were relatively cheap and, if the person paid them off, could give a tidy profit.  These investment bankers then took the loans and broke them into chunks, putting them into 401ks, and mutual funds.  Everyone was making money.So now, banks were no longer lending their own money, they were lending investor's money.  Now along comes the spiders.  Unscrupulous companies realized that Adjustable Rate Mortgages, or ARMs, had the potential to make much more money.  With interest rates at historic lows, they could push ARMs to gullible people who didn't understand interest rates or finances, for seemingly much cheaper than the traditional fixed rate mortages.  Because they were selling them at a profit, now the bank manager was not just encouraged to sell loans, his paycheck depended on how many loans he could push out and how much money he could make for the company.  Bank managers were now giving out no questions asked, no money down mortgages at faster and faster rates, to dumber and dumber people who barely had the income to cover them.The stock market soared, the profits for banks and companies like Freddie and Fannie skyrocketed, but it couldn't last forever.  Eventually, as they always do, the interest rates went up.  Suddenly, people who could barely keep up with a 1.7 percent interest rate were looking at double or even triple, and the foreclosures began.  With each foreclosure, the pressure on the remaining loans went up.  No credit could be extended, because no money was available, thus more foreclosures.All those loans sold like commodities were suddenly worthless, giving back returns less than half of what investors paid for.Suddenly Freddie and Fannie found that the billions of profits they were supposedly sitting on was a phantom, a chimera.  The government was forced to step in and reacquire Freddie and Fannie, including their billions of dollars of bad investments in order to prevent a collapse.  Overnight, two of the most profitable giants of the financial sector, turned to shit, and the dominos began to fall.Next on the hitlist: AIG.  AIG was a major insurance firm, that was actually a fairly profitable business.  The only problem was their CEO's had bought into Freddie and Fannie's bullshit, and were holding 60% of their stock.  When Freddie and Fannie collapsed, AIG was also looking at billions of dollars in losses, and declared bankruptcy.  Once again, in order to prevent a total loss to investors, the government stepped in, absorbing billions in bad investments so that AIG would not fold entirely.  The company will likely survive, though in a greatly reduced state.But things had changed.  Now Wallstreet was terrified.  Investors, desperate to not share AIG's fate began carefully looking at other banks who were holding bad mortgages and loans.  Wamu was the next to collapse, as their stock sales plummeted.  Wachovia was bought out by Citibank (already one of the largest banking entities in the world) in order to prevent a similar fate.So, where does that leave us?  Don't believe the bullshit about how the stock market has lost 1.2 trillion dollars.  That is money that never existed.  It was based on phantom loans that were sure to fail.  Who bares the blame for this, the bankers? Congress? The President? Wallstreet?  The answer is, yes.  Everyone hopped onto the gravy train hoping to make a quick buck without ever thinking about the consequences.  So now we're facing the possible collapse of the American Empire, because once again, we were unable to look beyond next business quarters profits to see the writing on the wall.So there's your short history.  Hope you feel better.Labels: foreclosure, history, loan crisis          
