Why Government shouldn't bail out Corporate America and make some Corporate CEO's, CFO's accountable for their own mess. The Economy is in turmoil putting taxpayers on fears and speculations of the near future but the CEO's, CFO's living the High style with the outrageous and mega salaries.This is the list of a few Corporate America CEO's, CFO's and their Mega Salaries.Stanley O'Neal, Merrill LynchFollowing an $8.4 billion write-down at Merrill Lynch, the news that the head of the firm, Stanley ONeal, would be leaving in late 2007 with more than $160 million in stock options and retirement perks in his pocket outraged many, from shareholders to legislators. The previous year, ONeal had been paid $46.4 million, making him the nation's second-highest paid executive in the country behind Lloyd C. Blankfein, the CEO of Goldman Sachs who made $54.3 million. ONeal was part of a group of corporate top dogs called to testify before Congress about excessive CEO pay. Merrill Lynch has since been taken over by Bank of America.Angelo R. Mozilo, Countrywide Financial.Angelo Mozilo built Countrywide Financial into the nations largest mortgage company and was paid handsomely during the real estate boom. He fought against his own boards attempts to cut back his pay by hiring a special consultant when things started going south in 2006. His efforts paid off. In 2007, he took home $121.5 million from exercising stock options and compensation of over $22 million. This huge pay came in a year when the bottom dropped out of the housing market and Countrywide took a beating with a loss of $704 million and a nearly 80 percent skid in the companys stock price. The company was bought by Bank of America in July.Richard Fuld, Lehman Bros.In a New York Times opinion piece last month, Nicholas Kristof estimated that Lehman CEO Richard Fuld last year earned roughly $17,000 an hour to obliterate a firm. That estimate was based on Fulds earnings in 2007 of more than $40 million. Lehman Bros., the oldest of the Wall Street titans founded in 1850, filed for bankruptcy last month. Fuld, who has been CEO of Lehman since 1993, was faulted by analysts for not taking acting quickly enough to deal with the firm's problemsJames Cayne, Bear StearnsBear Stearns CEO James Cayne made more than $160 million before the company hit the skids and was sold off at a discount price to JPMorgan Chase as part of a government bailout earlier this year. At one point Cayne was worth about $1 billion on paper, but when the Wall Street firm crumbled he sold his stake for a mere $61 million. Cayne, known for being an obsessive bridge player, was supposedly at a bridge tournament and unable to be reached when two major hedge funds at the firm collapsed in 2007, the beginning of the end for the firm.Richard Syron, Freddie MacDespite not heeding warnings from his own staff that the risky loans Freddie Mac had financed could hit the company hard, Richard Syron was expected to walk away with a pay package of more than $14 million. Freddie Mac, a government-sponsored enterprise that operated as a private company, was wholly taken over by federal regulators last month and Syron was officially out of a job on Sept. 6. The government said it would not pay Syron the golden parachute he expected to receive as part of his pay package, but its still unclear how much hell end up pocketing. Syron, an economist, joined Freddie Mac in 2003 after it was revealed the company had manipulated earnings to the tune of $5 billionDaniel Mudd, Fannie MaeIts hard to imagine the chief executive of a company established by Congress to help citizens buy homes would end up getting a raise when the firm was losing money and the housing market was collapsing. But thats just what happened to Daniel Mudd at Fannie Mae, who saw his pay rise 7 percent in 2007 to more than $13 million. Mudds promised golden parachute, worth nearly $10 million, is in question because federal regulators have said they will not pay. It is unclear how much he will get.Kennedy Thompson, WachoviaWachovia former chairman and CEO Kennedy Thompson received $21 million in 2007. Thompson, 58, joined Wachovia in 1976 and had been at its helm for the past eight years before being ousted in June. He will receive a severance package worth $8.7 million. Hes succeeded by Robert Steel, who was expected to get a $1 million salary with an opportunity for a $12 million bonus. Its unclear what Steel will receive now given Citigroups decision to buy Wachovias banking operations this week in a deal brokered by federal regulators.Kerry Killinger, Washington MutualWashington Mutuals longtime CEO Kerry Killinger was let go early last month as the company's share price fell in what turned out to be a death spiral. Killinger received compensation valued at $14.4 million in 2007. Killinger was replaced by Alan Fishman, but now that JPMorgan Chase has stepped in to buy WaMus banking assets, there is a chance Fishman could walk away with more than $19 million in salary and severance after only a few weeks at the helm.To be fair, Fishman wasn't the one that took WaMu down a path lined with toxic mortgages and other bad assets. No, that role belonged to former CEO Kerry Killinger, who received $54 million over five years before leaving earlier this month. He's eligible for around $20 million in severance pay.Martin Sullivan, AIGA few months before the government announced it would be taking over American International Group in mid-September, the insurers chief executive, Martin Sullivan, was ousted. His parting gift was a severance package worth nearly $50 million. In 2007, Sullivan received compensation of about $14 million. Sullivan left the firm after AIG wrote down $20 billion in losses because of the companys exposure to subprime mortgages. In a rare twist, Sullivans temporary successor Robert Willumstad took a pass on the $22 million he was promised in his contract.Latino pro Inmigrant. Width: 150px - example 
