 Andrew Ross Sorkin says they are.  He's taken what he saw on 60 Minutes on Sunday and what he's hearing on the Street and turned it into an article.My "Money and Banking" class (Eco 3023) just had an exam over bank operations and capital management.Capital = assets - liabilities.  Capital is on the right-hand side of the balance sheet.  So, Assets = Liabilities + Capital.On a balance sheet if you have a large depreciation of your assets -- like defaulted loans or assets that lose value (like houses) on the left-hand side--then the Capital account is where you show the loss on the right.  You've simply shrunk the Assets part of Assets-Liabilities.  Banks are required to have large amounts of capital (ie: a level of assets much greater than liabilities) to cover these types of asset losses. If they don't, they become insolvent and are shut down (the FDIC liquidates them).  You raise capital by cutting dividends or selling equity shares.Banks are short on capital as the value of assets have fallen.  So, Treasury gave $250 billion to banks ($125 billion to the 9 biggest) to shore up their capital in exchange for equity stakes in the banks.  (The Liabs+Capital side goes up by $X billion, the Asset side goes up by $X billion in the form of cash).As Bank of America CEO Ken Lewis said on 60 Minutes, some of the banks didn't need the capital (no one knows which banks are close to insolvent, which is partially why they quit lending to one another). Instead of taking the $250 billion and lending it out the banks are sitting on it as insurance, waiting for assets to further depreciate.Other banks, like BoA, might use the cash to buy other banks-- something Treasury is encouraging as a positive alternative to banks failing and costing the taxpayers money and causing general panic.The TED spread has narrowed as the LIBOR rate is falling and people are venturing away from 3-month T-bills, so the credit markets are showing signs of a spring thaw.  But the point is that it will be a while before the $250 billion the banks got finds its way into the general economy in the form of loans.  
