After searching for the information on this global credit crunch, I think I have a good idea how it is caused. First, Fannie and Freddie jointly made a huge amount of mortgage loans to unqualified buyers, per encouragement( or more like...say..threat..) from the Democratic Party. These mortgages were packaged into bonds... When FED raised the rate from 1.25% to 5.25%....the yeild of the bonds increased and was peddled around the world. But the rise in interest rate also started to trigger mortgage default and foreclosures.... In the mean time, stupid AIG came out with a derivative called Credit Default Swap. It is like an insurance for bonds. Hey..they are in insurance business, right? The Credit Default Swap(CDS) can be purchased by bond investors against the bonds they invested in. If the bonds default, the carrier, in this case AIG, will pay back the buyer certain amount, or&amp;nbsp;up to full value, of the&amp;nbsp;value the buyers have insured. When the oreclosures start to grow, AIG started to breed.... The loss from the&amp;nbsp;subprime mortgage bond insurance pay off amounts to 25&amp;nbsp;billion for AIG.... How did it ever get to the bank's credit, you may ask? The banks, seeing that AIG might default too, along with&amp;nbsp;other insurance companies that have involved with CDS, stop lending to build back up their cash reserves in case of large amnount of mortgage bond default.... So...the bail out is to beef up AIG by buying back the bonds that could be close to default and thus draw down our entire insurance industry. Yes, you read it here first. We need the bail out!  The FED, in the mean time, inject over 600 billion dollar into the global market to correct their own mistake of choking M2 in May... Now may I ask you one question...to provoke you to think... Bear Stearns collapsed in March..and I am sure they must have some bonds insured by AIG.... Amid a pending crisis coming ...why did the FED choke off the M2????????? Do you knonw how close we are to the meltdown? Easy87us
