France to buy 30,000 homesIn order to help sustain the construction industry, France is going to buy up 30,000 homes. . .Brace for Massive LayoffsAmong the costs coming under immediate scrutiny are marketing and new construction. AT&amp;T (T) and General Motors (GM) have already slashed their 2008 marketing budgets amid tough economic conditions. On Sept. 15, Visa (V) consolidated its ad account from four agencies to one to save money next year. Casino companies scrapped several high-profile expansion projects over the summer.Faced with such instability, some executives feel it's more prudent to jettison troubled businesses than to fix them. Consumer-product maker Newell Rubbermaid (NWL) now plans to dump $500 million of low-margin products, such as $10 plastic garbage cans, reversing a previous plan to turn them around. Newell CEO Mark D. Ketchum says it's the best strategy, given the tough road ahead. "Two words come to mind when I think of 2009difficult and volatile," says Ketchum.Hewlett-Packard Co., the world's largest computer-maker, fired a massive warning shot announcing it would eliminate 24,600 jobs, signaling it will not be just financial activities that are affected.German government fully guarantees private accountsIreland goes forward with 400 billion Euro ($640 Billion) bailoutCentral banks worldwide hoard goldStricken Iceland sends out financial SOSNext: The Mother Of All Bank Runs?&amp;lt;/z&amp;gt;Financial institutions in the U.S. and in advanced economies are going bust. In the U.S., the latest victims were Washington Mutual  (nyse: WM -  news  -  people ) (the largest U.S. savings and loan) and Wachovia  (nyse: WB -  news  -  people ) (the sixth largest U.S. bank). In the U.K., after Northern Rock  (other-otc: NHRKF.PK -  news  -  people ) and the acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB  (nyse: LYG -  news  -  people ), you now have the bust and rescue of Bradford &amp; Bingley; in Belgium you had Fortis  (other-otc: FORSY.PK -  news  -  people ) going bust and being rescued over the weekend; in Germany, Hypo Real Estate, a major financial institution near bust, has also needed rescue.Morgan's CDS spread went through the roof on Friday to over 1200, and the firm has already lost over a third of its hedge-fund clients together with the highly profitable prime brokering business (this is really a kiss of death for Morgan). And the coming roll-off of the interbank lines to Morgan would seal its collapse. Even Goldman Sachs is under severe stress: Most of its lines of business (including trading) are now losing money.The credit crunch hits Main Streeton Sept. 4, the Association for Financial Professionals surveyed more than 350 large companies about how the availability of short-term credit (or the lack thereof) was affecting business. Seventy-one percent said there was no significant impact, 11% said growth had slowed, and only 2% said business had contracted.The trade group was shocked to see the results of a similar survey they ran three weeks later, between Sept. 26 and 29. Thity-seven percent of companies said that as a result of reduced access to short-term credit, they had cut capital spending during the previous month. Twenty-six percent had frozen or reduced hiring, and 22% had considered layoffs. Ten percent had reduced inventory, and 7% had contemplated closing stores or factories. Workers and customers of the world, those are effects you'll feel.Ford's U.S. sales fell 34.6% in SeptemberSupply chain disruptions due to lack of credit are a very real possibility in the coming months.  By this I mean electricity, natural gas, trucking, supermarket and store deliveries, all halted by an inability to raise funds to pay employees and repay debts.  Who knows, maybe that magnifying glass will come in handy after all.
