The world's major central banks (well, except Japan obviously) have all cuts their target rate by 1/2 point. Truthfully, I have no idea what this is supposed to accomplish in the U.S. I have long thought rates in the U.K. and the Eurozone were too high given their economic situation. Admittedly, deflation is an increasing risk, so I suppose there is no harm in making this a global rate cut.You can see the dollar is weaker and stocks are much higher just by watching CNBC. Here's the bond market's immediate reaction is interesting. Treasury market is modestly weaker in the intermediate part of the curve. About flat on both the 2-year and 30-year. Its a little counter-intuitive that bonds would be weaker on a Fed cut, but I think that just shows how strong the panic bid for Treasuries is. I wouldn't be surprised to see this sell-off fade in the short-term, but longer-term there isn't much upside (price wise) in the 7-10 year area of the Treasury curve.CDS on major financials are a good bit tighter. Bank of America, Citigroup, and Wells Fargo 10-20 tighter. Goldman 30 tighter. GECC 20 tighter. American Express 25 tighter. Morgan Stanley confused (I'm getting quotes indicating both tighter and wider, welcome to the Financial Panic of 2008.)CDX 11 about 8 tighter.I don't think the Fed is "out of bullets." But in my mind, they've done enough. Now we just need time. Everyone wants stocks to soar and credit to return overnight. They want one of these Treasury/Fed measures to "solve" the crisis. But the crisis isn't about any one thing, its about confidence and trust. Financials broke that trust when they made a slew of bad loans. Now they need to rebuild trust. Like a philanderer trying to reform, it just takes time.Now, remember that I'm not a stock guy, but I think retail investors keep withdrawing from their mutual funds for a while here. Of course, historically when retail sells its usually a great time to buy. Regardless, I see stocks remaining under pressure until retail is done selling.   ...
