Lot's of buzz about this article on all the coin minted by options traders this year.Well, that's the implication, but it's a tad more complex than that. Generally speaking, an increasing volatility environment is a good one for options traders. But that's a broad statement, individual results can and will vary enormously. Someone's also getting obliterated selling all that "fat" premium as it got twice as "fat" almost overnight. And someone's also doubling down on DEEEPs on the way down too.Anyway, let's dig in.The same credit-market rout that sent stocks to the steepest loss in two decades is also making it the best year ever for options traders.U.S. equity derivative prices and trading surged to records as one of the worst months for the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index since the Great Depression wiped out three years of stock market gains. The retreat drove the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a measure of how much options cost, to the highest level in its 18-year history.Huntington Asset Management returned 70 percent in two weeks by selling contracts on Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall Street bank that sold $5 billion of preferred stock to Warren Buffett. Target Corp.'s 25 percent plunge yielded about $12 for every contract traded by Scoggin Capital Management LP using a so- called no-cost collar. Contracts for Coca-Cola Co., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Campbell Soup Co. surged as much as 119 percent since the end of 2007, according to the implied volatility of options expiring in 30 days.OK, I am going to change my opinion of this article from misleading, to patently ridiculous. They're cherry-picking a couple particularly good trades. It needs a ton of context, like what else you're doing in that name, whether you're just throwing every position into a big picture position, as all derivatives professionals do. Not to mention that a "no-cost collar" is just a pure directional bet, not all that different from shorting stock in this example. And "no-cost" is a misleading term. What it means is Scoggin bought some OTM put and shorted some OTM call for a net of zero cash. If TGT went up, it's ain't no cost anymore.But let's continue.The all-time high in the VIX meant investors paid 2 1/2 times more for S&amp;P 500 options than they did in 2007, based on its average level last year. The measure, calculated from the prices paid for S&amp;P 500 options, has exceeded 30 for 16 consecutive days, the longest streak since 2002.``This is the worst fear that I can think of in my career,'' said John Wilson, 63, co-director of equity strategy at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co., which manages $120 billion in Memphis, Tennessee.September's market gyrations sent trading of options on U.S. stocks, indexes and exchange-traded funds to an all-time high of 375 million contracts, according to the Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. Volume was almost double the figure from a year earlier.``People are nervous and they want protection for their portfolio, so they'll pay a premium,'' said Adam Stern, who oversees more than $1 billion at AM Investment Partners, a New York-based hedge fund that invests in options. ``It's possible to make a bit of money as people bid for that premium.''OK, well we're getting a little better here. Indeed it is possible to make some coin selling that premium. Just because I don't think that was THE best strategy through all this, doesn't mean you couldn't win doing it. Think of options selling as an insurance transaction, where you are now AIG.......OK, bad example. You are now Generic Insurance Company Who Was Happy Sticking to Your Core Business. And consider yourself selling home insurance in a flood or earthquake zone. If you can price those premiums high enough, sure you can do great net selling, even if you have to pay some claims here and there.Getting a little long here, and they get into the specifics of the trades, as the article goes on, so we'll hopefully continue later.
