Almost all of the information below was gleaned from Alex Blumberg and Adam Davidson from NPR's Planet Money and the This American Life specials they did... God bless them for simplifying all this financial stuff into something almost anyone can understand... most of the stuff I've just paraphrased... you can make any value judgments you want... I was just trying to translate the crisis into English for now... and if you're interested, you can get the daily scoop on the financial world in everyday language from their Planet Money podcast on NPR's website...&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp;  We have this global pool of money... that's all the money in the entire world in savings... $70 trillion dollars... we'll personify the pool and call it the glob...  &amp;nbsp;  The glob wants to make some money and they go to the US Treasury to enquire about the safest investment around, US Treasury Bonds... the then chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, says something like, "Fuck you... treasury bonds will only pay one percent interest..." &amp;nbsp;  So the glob goes to Wall Street and sees that they can invest in the US housing market and collect five to seven percent interest... and that's great, but they really don't want to get wrapped up in some guy's mortgage problems in Podunk... &amp;nbsp;  So the structure went something like this: a guy in Podunk wants to buy a house and he contacts a mortgage broker for a loan... the broker makes the loan and then turns around and sells the loan to a bank... who sells it to a bigger bank... the big banks end up with thousands upon thousands of these loans and so they start to group them together into bundles and they sell the mortgage bundles to the glob through Wall Street...  &amp;nbsp;  The glob loves it... everyone all down the line is making money hand over fist... they can't get enough of these bundles... and because they're selling so fast, the brokers want to make more mortgage loans... as many as possible... so they start getting a little slack about their lending guidelines, but what do they care? They'll be selling the loan in a month or so... first they stopped asking for proof of income and finally all you basically needed to get a mortgage loan was a "credit score and a pulse." &amp;nbsp;  Meanwhile, housing prices are rising fast and everyone thought that even if someone defaulted on their loan, they'd still own a house that was worth more than the loan... so they'd pretty much sell a house to anybody no matter what... &amp;nbsp;  Enter the collateralized debt obligation (CDO) industry... these folks took the mortgage bundles and sliced and diced them like a mad chemistry experiment until they came out with slices that got an acceptable credit rating... they then sold these slices on the market...  &amp;nbsp;  And it was good... housing prices were going through the roof because everyone considered them an excellent investment... the prices of these houses were doubling in many cases... but the problem was that people didn't have any more money than they did before... income had not increased... the average home began to cost four times the average income... and people started defaulting on their loans...  &amp;nbsp;  As more people began defaulting, property values started going down... and as they continued to spiral downward, the glob started backing away from these investments... this was devastating to the mortgage companies because suddenly they're left with millions of dollars in loans they can't sell... and they already owe huge amounts to the banks... so they end up defaulting and going out of business... &amp;nbsp;  And a lot of people who want to keep their home, but now realize there is no way that they can afford it as things stand, can't even call someone to negotiate because it's been bought and sold many times and put into bundles and slices... a whole bunch of people own the loan to their house...&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp;  Most of the CDO's are now worth about half of their original value and some are worth almost nothing... but no one can figure out exactly how much they've lost because everything is so chopped up... so the glob decides that they will take no risks whatsoever, but at the same time they become obsessed with making any kind of profit they can and those US treasury bonds start to look attractive to them... but since the glob is unwilling to take any risks, it becomes difficult to buy a house, take out a student loan, etc... everything starts shutting down... credit is becoming frozen, something the world has never seen before... &amp;nbsp;  Meanwhile, the Commercial Paper Market (CPM) starts to freeze up... the CPM is a way for big companies to borrow money... an industrial sized IOU written to banks on Wall Street... these companies would go to the banks, borrow money at interest, and issue commercial paper (an IOU)... the banks would then sell the IOU's... but suddenly no one is buying... and this is because of Money Market Mutual Funds... &amp;nbsp;  Money market mutual funds are like a savings account... they're one of the safest places to keep your money and they're very common... you probably have some... the returns on these funds are low, but they're safe... one of the ways that money market mutual fund managers got that return for their clients was buying commercial paper... but one of the biggest and most trusted funds  the reserve fund  "broke the buck," meaning they lost their depositor's money... this caused a panic... a full fledged old fashioned bank run... tons of people calling their brokers demanding to get out of money market funds immediately... the government had to step in and guarantee them to stop the catastrophe... &amp;nbsp;  The thing is, those money market managers hadn't been buying anything risky; they were buying very short term commercial paper... unfortunately, they bought it from Lehman Brothers who went bankrupt due to their risky investments... so the money loaned to Lehman's was now gone... and the guys who had not lent to Lehman's were freaked out because they didn't know who was next... then another fund broke the buck... AIG nearly collapsed... so now the money market fund managers decide they're not lending money out to anyone else... no one trusts anyone else because they don't know whether that company has losses or not... and the CPM freezes up while money market managers start to invest in US treasury bonds... &amp;nbsp;  So Paulsen and Bernanke freak because they're afraid this is going to spread... it won't just be money market funds unwilling to lend money, but absolutely no one will want to lend money... if the extension of credit came to a halt, the entire economy would come to a halt, which affects everyone...  &amp;nbsp;  But it doesn't end here... Credit Default Swaps (we'll call them swaps) have been called financial weapons of mass destruction and here's why... a swap is like an insurance policy... you make an agreement with someone to pay them a percentage on a loan you've made with another party in exchange for protection... if the guy you loaned money to goes bankrupt, the other guy you made the agreement with will give you the value of the loan... the problem is that this morphed into something else... what started out as insurance became gambling...  &amp;nbsp;  The people who owned the loan took out this insurance, but then other people who had nothing to do with the loan began to take out insurance on it too... thousands of them... so basically they're betting on the loan defaulting... and the closer a company got to insolvency, the more people who wanted in on the swaps...  &amp;nbsp;  Here's the upside: I have $100 million and I want to make a killing in the swap market... so I say I'm selling insurance, who wants to buy? A swap desk calls me and says "I have a $1 billion bond from Lehman Brothers and I want to insure it..." Okay, fine... I insure it in exchange for two percent of it's value every year... two percent of $1 billion is $20 million, which I'm going to get every year... so effectively I've doubled my money within 5 years with signing one piece of paper...  &amp;nbsp;  Here's the downside: Even though I'm making profits off of someone's billion, I'm on the hook for a billion if something should happen... I don't have a billion... I only have $100 million... so Lehman Brothers, one of the oldest and most respected banks, defaults and I'm expected to pay out $1 billion... &amp;nbsp;  AIG had to be rescued by the government because they were left holding the bag... they had promised over $400 billion to people holding swaps with them... $400 billion they didn't have... &amp;nbsp;  What made swaps even more dangerous was a process called knitting... I have $100 million and I have a hunch that Lehman's is going down... so I go to AIG and buy insurance against Lehman's... I'll pay AIG $20 million a year for insurance... the next few months, Lehman's starts to look really risky, so the cost to insure them goes up... now I go to the market and sell the protection I bought at the lower prices... I'm paying $20 million a year, but I sell it for $40 million a year... I'm safe because if Lehman goes under, I'll owe my buyer a billion, but AIG will owe me a billion... the problem is that this started to be a chain... the swaps were bought and then sold and sold again and sold again, etc... and if one party in the chain doesn't honor their contract, things start to collapse all the way down the line... no one can pay... &amp;nbsp;  The swap is a private deal... it's not traded publicly; it's a private contract... you pay me fees and I'll pay you if Company ABC defaults... there are $5 trillion worth of loans in the world, but people have bet $60 trillion on those loans... and since it's a private deal, there is no regulation and no one has any information about what anyone else is doing... and because of this, banks don't want to trade with each other anymore because they have no idea who anyone else has made deals with...  &amp;nbsp;  The government feels they need to ...
