Today the government got up and announced the financial crisis is world wide and much deeper than they first thought. Unfortunately they did not tell us what the real deal was.So I will tell everyone what I have discovered in the last few days. You will all want me to get back to work instead of sitting here talking to people and doing research. I am sure you are all sick of it...BTW I am OCD! Well here it is!  As you know we are in a major credit default meltdown. The DOW slipped down 800 points yesterday before it rebounded and came up to -370 at close. I have not watched it today so I cant comment on the current.   This meltdown is not just about real estate. It is bigger than anyone realizes. Who is at fault? It is the Wall Street criminals, the Federal Reserve banks and the US treasuryOh we can also throw in the Congress. This is what Wall Street did with the help of the Federal Reserve Bank. They created a distributive's pyramid which is now over 800 trillion dollars. It doubled in the last 18 months. It is kind of like an Enron story. You all know what a pyramid is I am sure. Here is how it worked  There is 62 trillion dollars in credit default derivatives which was created by Wall Street and the Federal Reserve Bank to finance the real estate bubble. They then packaged trillions of dollars of paper mortgages and sold them to financial institutions all over the world. So the original 62 trillion dollars became an 800 trillion dollar bubble and our measly 700 billion bail out wont touch it. The bubble is collapsing like dominoes around the world and to even attempt to build a stop gate it would cost up 7 trillion and chances are that wont even stop the bleeding. They created trillions of dollars out of thin air and only worthless paper is backing that money.  It all began with Greenspan who doubled the money supply by 50%. I dont think he saw it coming. So the Federal Reserve bank and Wall Street made trillions of derivatives and gained billions in profits for it. The regulators and congress just turned their heads away and did not look. Then the people that did this to us asked for us to bail them out. Congress and the people said no. So they had to add lobbyists 100 billion of special interest pork to it and then they had enough personal kickback to vote it in. Lobbyists are the sugar daddies of the senate and congress. These hookers should be outlawed because our government officials are to morally corrupt to fight off the temptation of what they offer them in return for their votes. It is certainly not in the peoples best interests. But that is another blog  Back to the way it went down They packaged these derivatives or securities and got false ratings on them. They got triple A ratings on junk paper and sold them to pension funds, banks, insurance companies and other financial companies all over the world. If you or I did that we would be in jail for a very long time andthey would never bail us out.  Lets put this money in perspective. I mean it is hard to imagine what a trillion dollars would even buy. Six years ago all thehomes in America combined were worth 4 trillion dollars. Now they are worth 12 trillion dollars. We can blame Freddie and Fannie but that was just a start. They carried actually 6 trillion for the homes financed by them. That is half of the homes in America. The bad debt on all the homes in America is anywhere from 60 to 100 billion dollars. That is to pay off the entire hours. I cant give an exact number because it is changing daily with the market. So dont blame this on the home buyers and any particular racial or economic group. The group you can blame is sitting in DC or on Wall Street.  So what happened when everyone realized that for each dollar they were holding the actual cash value was anywhere from 5 cents to 2 cents they started to plunge. Bear Stearns went first and the Frannie and Freddie, and then Countrywide, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, AIG the biggest insurance company in America, Washington Mutual the second largest bank in America, and this week Wachovia the 4th largest bank in America. They were all sitting with bogus financial papers that they assumed had real money behind them. Merrill Lynch found out their 31 billion of credit diversities were only worth 5 billion and immediately went belly up. It happened to all of them and I just got my investment statement from quarter ending June 30th and this was before we found out there was not real money backing up our stocks and bonds. My losses in that quarter were 20%. I mean OMG! I wont get this quarter losses statement for many months but I can guarantee just like Merrill I will find a nickel to the dollar. So this is how it affected our bonds, stock market investments and 401Ks. Well 401s will be a little more protected but still sustain a huge loss. It will affect all of us. There is not enough money in the world to fix it.  So of course we are saying lets just file bankruptcy as a nation and default on all of these trillions of dollars. We could do that if it were only us involved but we have millions of investors around the world. We have labors in Hong Kong and every corner of the world that slaved away all their lives and put the small amount of money they made in the bank since the banks said they would get interest and even make more if they bought bonds. These are little people who will lose everything. Then there are the big people out there. I mean to tell you millions of investors throughout the world. The whole world is getting stung by our greed and by our lack of oversight. This is a geo political issue and this is what the president and everyone else does not want you to know. I posted the cover of the Economist Magazine and that about says it. Actually I could not post it because it is against MSN rules to use such language that they used for their cover. It said something like &amp;quot;Were F***ed. Are you all gettingthe picture now? Next i wil lwrite about how to buy food for the great depression.
