 Lehman Brothers Boss Defends $484 Million in Salary, Bonus HERE IN THE U.S. IT'S THE GOING-DOWN-THE-DRAIN ECONOMY WHICH IS ON EVERYONE'S MIND AND THREATENING EVERYBODY'S MONEY ! PEOPLE ARE WORRIED, VERY WORRIED ...THE FOLLOWING IS ONE OF THE EVENTS HAPPENING TODAY ...Fuld Becomes Poster Boy for Wall Street Greed at Heated Congressional  HearingBy BRIAN ROSS and ALICE GOMSTYNOctober 6, 2008Lehman Brothers Boss Defends $484 Million in Salary, Bonus In the first Congressional hearing into the financial crisis, the former CEO  of the bankrupt Lehman Brothers, Richard Fuld, became the poster boy for Wall  Street greed today as he defended the $484 million he received in salary,  bonuses and stock options since 2000.   "Is that fair?" asked committee chairman Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA) who pointed  out Fuld owns a mansion in Greenwich, Connecticut, an ocean front estate on  Jupiter Island, Florida, a ski chalet in Idaho and a Manhattan apartment.   "If you haven't discovered your role, you're the villain today," said Rep.  John Mica (R-FL).   Fuld said given the collapse of Lehman Brothers and its now worthless stock,  his actual holdings were closer to $350 million.   "That's still a lot of money," he told the hearing.   Fuld said he took "full responsibility" for the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers  and "felt horrible" about it.   But Fuld said he has yet to understand why the federal government helped to  bail out the AIG insurance company and other investment banking firms, but did  not do so a few days earlier to save Lehman Brothers.   "Until the day they put me in the ground, I will wonder," Fuld told the  Congressional panel, seeming to seethe with anger.   "This is a pain that will stay with me the rest of my life."   In his opening remarks, Waxman lambasted both Fuld and Lehman.   Internal documents obtained by the committee, Waxman said, "portray a company  in which there was no accountability for failure."  Waxman cited an e-mail exchange among top Lehman executives. After someone  sent an e-mail suggesting that Lehman's top management give up their bonuses,  both Fuld and George H. Walker, a member of Lehman's executive committee and a  cousin of President Bush, sent e-mails disagreeing with the suggestion.  Walker, according to Waxman, replied by writing, "Sorry team. I'm not sure  what's in the water at 605 Third Avenue today. &amp;amp; I'm embarrassed and I  apologize."  Waxman said that Fuld "mocked" the suggestion by adding, "Don't worry &amp;#19; they  are only people who think about their own pockets."  Waxman also cited a request submitted to Lehman's compensation committee four  days before the firm filed for bankruptcy. The request, he said, recommended  that the board give three departing executives over $20 million in "special  payments."  "In other words, even as Mr. Fuld was pleading with Secretary Paulson for a  federal rescue, Lehman continued to squander millions on executive  compensation," Waxman said.  Despite warnings that "liquidity can disappear quite fast," Fuld  "depleted Lehman's capital reserves by over $10 billion through year-end  bonuses, stock buybacks, and dividend payments," Waxman said.  Others at the hearing voiced their own concerns about compensation at Lehman.   Nell Minow, the editor of the research firm, The Corporate Library,  highlighted Fuld's compensation, which exceeded $70 million last year.  "I think it is fair to say by any standard of measurement that this pay plan  is as uncorrelated to performance as it is possible to be," she said.  Minow also found fault with Lehman's corporate board. The Corporate Library  grades the performance of corporate boards and last month, Minow said, the firm  downgraded Lehman's board to an "F."  "In this case, the board was too old, had served too long, was too out of  touch with massive changes in the industry, had too little of their own net  worth at risk, and was too compromised for rigorous independent oversight," she  said.  Prior to Fuld's testimony, Minow and several other experts testified before  the committee on Lehman's bankruptcy and today's financial turmoil.  Dr. Luigi Zingales, a professor of finance at the University of Chicago, said  that Lehman's demise was a result of its aggressive use of leverage, or debt to  finance investments, "in the context of a major financial crisis."  It made Lehman especially vulnerable to insolvency, Zingales said.  "Lehman did not find itself in that situation by accident; it was the unlucky  draw of a consciously-made gamble," he said.  Robert Wescott, the president of the economic analysis and public policy  research firm Keybridge Research LLC, said that the root of the financial  crisis, overall lay in "easy credit."  Variable rate mortgages with low initial interest rates "gave many families  an inflated sense of their capacity to afford housing," Wescott said. As a  result, he said, housing prices began rising as high as 30 percent per year and  "a housing frenzy developed."  "Many Americans developed unrealistic expectations and assumed  that housing prices could only go up," he said.  Meanwhile, the securitization of mortgages aggravated the situation &amp;#19; it  allowed mortgage originators to make risky loans without concerns about the  consequences.  "Since the mortgage originator was no longer going to hold the mortgage to  maturity, but rather was going to immediately sell it to a securities firm and  collect its fee up front, it did not have a strong incentive to perform due  diligence on the loan," Westcott said.  Peter J. Wallison, a fellow in financial policy studies at the American  Enterprise Institute, said that the lack of regulation of government-sponsored  mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac played a major role in the crisis.  Congress, he said, resisted reforming the regulation of the two companies "until  it was too late."  Wallison also cited a newspaper article that showed "the SEC's failure to  devote sufficient resources to the regulation of the major investment banking  firms."  Weak regulation, Wallison said, "can be worse than none."  SOURCE   ...
