 FEDERAL Labor MP Belinda Neal last night bowed to pressure from Kevin Rudd and agreed to be questioned by police over the Iguanas restaurant scandal.Ms Neal confirmed she would make herself available to police if they wanted to interview her, after the Prime Minister said he had 'clear-cut and absolute' expectations she would co-operate fully with police. Her decision also followed Mr Rudd's instruction to chief government whip Roger Price to order Ms Neal to comply with a police request, in line with a pledge she made in parliament to 'fully co-operate with this investigation'. Ms Neal's decision last night was a U-turn after police revealed on Tuesday that she had refused to be interviewed about events surrounding an altercation at a NSW Central Coast restaurant on June 6. Her husband, senior NSW Labor MP John Della Bosca, initially joined his wife by refusing to be questioned and instead provided a written statement. Mr Della Bosca buckled after NSW Premier Morris Iemma ordered him to co-operate fully with police to satisfy commitments given to Mr Iemma and the public. Ms Neal issued a statement last night claiming police had indicated they were satisfied with a 15-page statement she had provided, based on legal advice, when she refused to be interviewed. She said police had not sought further information, but added: 'If they do wish to interview me, then I will make myself available.' The backdown came after Ms Neal yesterday called police, claiming she had been assaulted by a team from the Nine Network's A Current Affair as she entered her Gosford electorate office. Footage of the incident aired last night on Nine showed reporter Ben Fordham quizzing Ms Neal as she angrily demanded he stop blocking her path. 'It's a secure area,' she said outside a back door. 'I'm ringing police.' As he questioned why Ms Neal would not talk to police, Fordham mimicked words Ms Neal is alleged to have uttered during a tirade directed at Iguanas staff: 'Do you know who I am?' In a statement, Ms Neal said the ACA crew had followed her from her Phegans Bay home to Gosford. She claimed they had forced their way through a secure area at the rear of a Commonwealth Bank, then pursued her into her office. She called police, claiming trespass and assault. Last night, Fordham denied the claims, describing her statement as 'further evidence she struggles to tell the truth'. 'I didn't follow Ms Neal from her home,' he said. 'I didn't force my way through a secure area. I didn't pursue Ms Neal into her office. I didn't assault Ms Neal. 'The footage speaks for itself.' He said it was 'quite ironic' that Ms Neal had called police. 'These are the police who would really like to be sitting down and quizzing her.' Fordham has conducted interviews with a former Neal secretary, Melissa Batten, who claims the MP pressured her to omit details from a statutory declaration, and with Iguanas staff who have claimed Ms Neal abused and threatened them. Mr Della Bosca was also involved in an incident yesterday with a Seven Network reporter, Aela Callan, who followed him on a Sydney-bound Central Coast train. Mr Della Bosca reportedly evaded the journalist by spending part of the trip in the train's toilet. 
