 SUPERMARKET chain the Co-operative Group has agreed a 1.56bn takeover of rival Somerfield.The deal will cement the Co-ops position as the UKs fifth biggest food retailer, with sales of about 8bn and a market share of approximately 8%. It will also have more than 3,000 outlets.Co-op chief executive Peter Marks said the the acquisition would provide 'rocket fuel' for the groups growth plans. Mr Marks said the deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, would be good news for consumers and for competition in the grocery market. 'We will create a stronger fifth player in food and a convenience store chain with unrivalled geographic reach,' he said. The Co-op, which is a mutual company owned by 2.5 million members, unveiled a three-year plan in April to double profits and invest 1.5bn in transforming its retail estate.As well as currently being the UKs fifth largest food retailer, it is the third largest pharmaceuticals chain, the biggest provider of funeral services and the largest independent travel business in the country.Somerfield comprises 880 outlets across the UK and generated net sales of 4.2bn in the year to April, with underlying earnings of 233m. Its owners, a consortium including property tycoon Robert Tchenguiz, private equity firm Apax and investment bank Barclays Capital, have been looking for a buyer for some time.They were reported at the weekend to be looking for a price of 2.5bn. Somerfield was taken private by its current owners in a 1.1bn deal in December 2005.It began life as JH Mills in Bristol in 1875, but changed its name to Gateway in 1950 because the city was the 'gateway to the West Country'. The group dropped the Gateway name in 1994 to become Somerfield and listed on the Stock Exchange two years later.Somerfield chief executive Paul Mason said: 'With Somerfield and the Co-operative Group as one business, we believe that we can learn from each others strengths to ensure we continue to develop the best local grocery shops in Britain.' Mr Marks said it was likely that competition watchdogs would require the Co-op to sell some of the Somerfield estate, but it was too early say how many. 'We will be working with the Office of Fair Trading to analyse which stores and how we deal with them,' he said. Other food retailers are expected to be interested in any of the disposals, Mr Marks added.The takeover will result in 'very significant' cost benefits, he said, which will be passed on to consumers. A 'limited' number of job losses will also result, but it was too early to say how many.Completion of the deal is expected within a few months, after which the Somerfield brand will disappear, Mr Marks said. The Co-ops 2,300 food stores enjoyed a 4.7% like-for-like sales rise during the first half of the year, while Somerfields sales experienced 'similar' growth. Mr Marks said concerns over the cost of fuel were persuading consumers to shop more locally. He said: 'In terms of the convenience market, it has been been growing at a faster rate than the grocery market itself. 'People are concerned about time, but also about the cost of fuel. 'When they are making a decision Do I drive five miles to a superstore or do I go down the bottom of the road and visit my local Co-op?, thats affecting their decision-making.'
