 Belinda Neal calls police on TV crew A Current Affair reporter says he confronted Neal Rudd pulls out his whip for defiant Neal BELINDA Neal has called in the police to accuse Channel 9's A Current Affair of assault and trespassing today.In a statement today, the Labor MP has confirmed she called in the police after she was confronted by Channel 9 reporter Ben Fordham who said, Dont you know who I am in reference to her earlier clash with Iguanas restaurant staff. Earlier, Former education minister John Della Bosca was also confronted on a train by a Channel 7 News crew on his way to work, prompting the Labor powerbroker to hide in a toilet for a significant portion of the hour-long train journey, The Australian reports. The Daily Telegraph: All the latest on Belinda Neal Iguanagate in pictures: The main players and events This morning a team from A Current Affair followed Ms Neal from her home to her electorate office and forced their way through a secure area at the rear of Ms Neals office and the Commonwealth Bank and then pursued Ms Neal into her office, Ms Neals statement says. Police are presently investigating the incident in relation to entering enclosed lands and assault on Ms Neal. Police are understood to have asked A Current Affair for tapes of the incident. Earlier today, Mr Della Bosca was also pursued by a Seven News crew on a train to Sydney. Around about Epping he went into the toilet and didnt come out until we reached Central. It was around twenty minutes he was in there, Seven reporter Aela Callan told The Australian Online. When he came out I said, this rather awkward isnt it. Mr Fordham said today he confronted Ms Neal this morning in the car park outside her Gosford electoral office on the NSW central coast. ''It's quite ironic - these are the police who would really like to be sitting down and quizzing her, Mr Fordham told Fairfax Radio today. 'The same sort of questions I suppose that the police want answered at the moment, and it developed into quite an angry confrontation.' It is understood Fordham repeatedly asked Ms Neal, dont you know who I am, in a reference to her alleged rebuke to restaurant staff at Igunas on the night of the original altercation. Fordham denied his crew harassed Ms Neal, saying they were just doing their job. The federal Labor MPs office said earlier today there was no change to her position that she will not submit to an interview with police over the incident, as is her legal right. However, she now has a second press secretary: the onetime spin doctor to former NSW premier Bob Carr, Michael Salmon, who was sent in by ALP state headquarters. The Prime Minister confirmed at a media conference in Sydney a short time ago that he had deputised party whip Roger Price to speak to Ms Neal today and urge her to co-operate fully with police. Ms Neal and her husband, suspended NSW minister John Della Bosca, confirmed last night that they had refused to be questioned by police, despite giving earlier undertakings to provide their full co-operation. They have both provided written statements to police, which state they did nothing wrong. Mr Della Bosca has now agreed to the interview, but his wife is standing firm.Federal Opposition Leader Brendan Nelson said he had little sympathy for Ms Neal.'Belinda Neal put herself up for public office, she was elected by the people of Robertson to represent them,' he said.'I think it is pretty simple for Belinda Neal - if you want privacy go and speak to the police, tell the police what happened.' Read more at The Australian.   
