 BELINDA Neal has called in police to accuse a TV crew of assault - but is defying Kevin Rudd's order to submit to a police interview over the Iguanagate scandal.In a statement today, the Labor MP has confirmed she called in the police after she was confronted by Channel 9's A Current Affair reporter Ben Fordham who mockingly shouted, Dont you know who I am? in reference to her earlier clash with Iguanas restaurant staff. Earlier, Former education minister John Della Bosca was also confronted on a train by a Channel 7 News crew on his way to work, prompting the Labor powerbroker to hide in a toilet for a significant portion of the hour-long train journey. Report continues below This morning a team from A Current Affair followed Ms Neal from her home to her electorate office and forced their way through a secure area at the rear of Ms Neals office and the Commonwealth Bank and then pursued Ms Neal into her office, Ms Neals statement says. Police are presently investigating the incident in relation to entering enclosed lands and assault on Ms Neal. Police are understood to have asked A Current Affair for tapes of the incident. Earlier today, Mr Della Bosca was also pursued by a Seven News crew on a train to Sydney. Around about Epping he went into the toilet and didnt come out until we reached Central. It was around twenty minutes he was in there, Seven reporter Aela Callan told The Australian Online. When he came out I said, This is rather awkward isnt it. Fordham said today he confronted Ms Neal this morning in the car park outside her Gosford electoral office on the NSW central coast. 'It's quite ironic - these are the police who would really like to be sitting down and quizzing her,' Fordham said on Fairfax radio. 'The same sort of questions I suppose that the police want answered at the moment, and it developed into quite an angry confrontation.' It is understood Fordham repeatedly asked Ms Neal, dont you know who I am, in a reference to her alleged rebuke to restaurant staff at Igunas on the night of the original altercation. Fordham denied his crew harassed Ms Neal, saying they were just doing their job. The federal Labor MPs office said earlier today there was no change to her position that she will not submit to an interview with police over the incident, as is her legal right. However, she now has a second press secretary: the onetime spin doctor to former NSW premier Bob Carr, Michael Salmon, who was sent in by ALP state headquarters. The Prime Minister confirmed at a media conference in Sydney a short time ago that he had deputised party whip Roger Price to speak to Ms Neal today and urge her to co-operate fully with police. Mr Price told The Australian Online he would be speaking to Ms Neal shortly. Sure, I will be talking to Belinda, about a number of things,' Mr Price said. Rudd government sources declined to detail the options Mr Price will lay out for Ms Neal but noted that if she agrees to speak to police that will resolve a lot of those issues'. Earlier, the Prime Minister issued a stern statement ordering Ms Neal to co-operate fully. Ms Neal and her husband, suspended NSW minister John Della Bosca, confirmed last night that they had refused to be questioned by police, despite giving earlier undertakings to provide their full co-operation. They have both provided written statements to police, which state they did nothing wrong. Mr Della Bosca has now agreed to the interview, but his wife is standing firm. Ms Neal is at risk of being charged with an attempt to pervert the course of justice after allegations made by her former secretary Melissa Batten. Ms Batten claimed the Labor backbencher intimidated her into omitting unfavourable details from a statutory declaration about what occurred during an argument with staff at Iguanas restaurant in Gosford on the NSW central coast on June 6. Bar staff allege Ms Neal was abusive and threatening and told them she would have the club's 'f***ing licence'' - claims denied in statutory declarations filed by Ms Neal's companions. In a statement last night, Ms Neal said she had received advice from a barrister, following an interview request from police, that providing a legal statement was the most appropriate way for her to co-operate. 'I am pleased this matter is proceeding to finalisation,'' she said. 
