Kenneth D. Kirk, Regional President of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. (NYSE: BRO), and Helen J. Wertheim, President of Charter Insurance Services, Inc. of Albuquerque, New Mexico, announce the asset acquisition of Charter Insurance Services, Inc. by a subsidiary of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc.  Charter Insurance Services, Inc., with annualized revenues of approximately $1.1 million, focuses on property &amp;amp; casualty insurance for individuals and businesses in Albuquerque, New Mexico and throughout the United States. Helen Wertheim and her team will combine their agency operations with that of Brown &amp;amp; Brown's existing Albuquerque office, under the leadership of Scott Jones.  Mr. Kirk stated, 'We are pleased to have Charter Insurance and their group of talented insurance professionals join our Albuquerque operations. This combination will enable our New Mexico operations to thrive and will allow us to provide new resources and service capabilities for our clients in New Mexico.'  Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products and services, as well as risk management, third party administration, managed health care, and Medicare set-aside services and programs. Providing service to business, public entity, individual, trade and professional association clients nationwide, the Company is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the seventh largest independent insurance intermediary in the United States. The Company's Web address is www.bbinsurance.com.  This press release may contain certain statements relating to future results which are forward-looking statements, including those associated with this acquisition. These statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the Company's current belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the Company's control. It is possible that the Company's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results and condition, as well as its other achievements, are contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some factors include those factors relevant to Brown &amp;amp; Brown's consummation and integration of the announced acquisition, including any matters analyzed in the due diligence process, material adverse changes in the customers of the company whose operations are being acquired and material adverse changes in the business and financial condition of either or both companies and their respective customers. All forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company hereafter becomes aware.  Contact:  Cory T. Walker  Chief Financial Officer  (386) 239-7250  This is a news service of Thomson Business Intelligence Service 2006. This content is for your personal use only, subject to Terms and Conditions. No redistribution allowed.  
