New York: America International Group Inc., the insurer under fire for paying 168 executives not to quit after a government takeover, is giving retention awards to at least 2,000 more employees, according to a person familiar with the matter. The 'retention bonus' equals as much as a year's salary and recipients were ordered to keep the payment secret, said the person, who declined to be named because the plan was labelled confidential. Awards were offered to as much as 10 per cent of staff at businesses that are for sale, including plane-leasing and insurance units in the US and overseas, the person said. AIG said in September that 130 executives will get awards, just days after the New York-based firm got a government rescue package that now totals $152.5 billion (Dh560.163 billion) AIG Chief Executive Officer Edward Liddy told Congress last week the payments will go to 168 people, with some getting as much as $4 million.  Deceived 'If it has the money to give these disguised bonuses to thousands of its employees, then I think it is time for Mr Liddy to write a cheque to the federal government repaying the money it took,' said Representative Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, in a statement on Saturday.  Nicholas Ashooh, an AIG spokesman, said life insurance unit chiefs were allowed to give retention awards to as much as 10 per cent of their staff, and selected 'closer to 7 or 8 per cent' of workers. There are about 37,000 employees in AIG life units worldwide, Ashooh said. A typical payment is equal to about six months of salary, he said. 'It's not a senior executive programme, it's for the employees running the businesses day-to-day, around the world,' Ashooh said on Saturday. Ashooh said there 'may be retention programmes for other AIG subsidiaries that are for sale. The insurer's plane-leasing unit isn't part of the life insurance programme, Ashooh said.  Units that AIG is trying to sell employ about 70,000 people, which means that as many as 7,000 could receive payments, the person said.  Cummings said he felt deceived by the company. 'Liddy told me in writing that his company was awarding 168 retention payments. There is no way around that figure.' 
