Len E. Williams, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel L. Stevens, the Chairman of the Company's Board, stated jointly, 'Fred's service as a board member and commitment to Home Federal during his seventeen years of service has been outstanding. Our Company, board, employees and stockholders are indebted to him for his many contributions to the Company.' Mr. Williams and Mr. Stevens added, 'We are pleased to have a businessman and public servant of Brad Little's caliber agree to serve on our board. Senator Little's service in the Idaho Legislature and significant involvement in the business and agricultural communities of the Treasure Valley will make him a valuable contributor to the strength and growth of our Company.' About the Company   Home Federal Bancorp, Inc. is a Maryland corporation headquartered in Nampa, Idaho, and is the savings and loan holding company of Home Federal Bank, a federal savings bank that was originally organized as a building and loan association in 1920. The Company serves the Treasure Valley region of southwestern Idaho that includes Ada, Canyon, Elmore and Gem Counties, through 15 full-service banking offices and one loan center. The Company's common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol 'HOME.' The Company's stock is also included in the America's Community Bankers NASDAQ Index. For more information, visit the Company's web site at www.myhomefed.com.   Forward-Looking Statements:   Statements in this news release regarding future events, performance or results are 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ('PSLRA') and are made pursuant to the safe harbors of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, expectations of the business environment in which the Company operates, projections of future performance, perceived opportunities in the market, potential future credit experience, and statements regarding the Company's mission and vision. These forward-looking statements are based upon current management expectations and may, therefore, involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could be materially different from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause results to differ include but are not limited to: general economic and banking business conditions, competitive conditions between banks and non-bank financial service providers, interest rate fluctuations, the credit risk of lending activities, including changes in the level and trend of loan delinquencies and write-offs; results of examinations by our banking regulators, regulatory and accounting changes, the value of mortgage servicing rights, risks related to construction and development lending, commercial and small business banking and other risks. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are disclosed in Home Federal Bancorp, Inc.'s recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Forward-looking statements are accurate only as of the date released, and we do not undertake any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 
