By Jan Strupczewski and Marcin Grajewski    BRUSSELS, Dec 22 (Reuters) - A slump in demand for cars caused the deepest on record annual plunge in euro zone industrial new orders, data showed, underscoring the depth of the economic downturn and pointing to more ECB rate cuts.    European Union statistical office Eurostat said October orders fell by 4.7 percent from September for an annual fall of 15.1 percent. This is the deepest year-on-year fall on record, Eurostat said.    The main reason behind the October plunge in new orders was a 9.4 percent monthly and a 33.3 percent annual fall in orders for transport equipment.    'The automotive industry has told us they had no new orders -- we know that from the German car manufacturers and also from the French. This is the reason why they are closing their factories for up to four weeks -- the situation is dramatic in this sector,' said Christoph Weil, economist at Commerzbank.    'In the first round it is the car sector, but in the second round it will be the other sectors. For the ECB there is no time to wait, they will cut interest rates, that is clear. I expect 50 basis points in January,' Weil said.    Economists polled by Reuters had expected monthly and yearly falls in orders of 4.0 percent and 10.7 percent respectively.    Eurostat also revised new orders figures for September to -5.4 percent month-on-month from -3.9 percent and to -1.9 percent from -1.1 percent annually.    'This situation is bad. It will hard for the ECB to ignore these data. Some policymakers would like not to cut interest rates in January, but they will have to,' said Holger Schmieding, European economist at Bank of America.    The European Central Bank cut interest rates by 175 basis points in three monthly moves since October to 2.5 percent but has signalled it could pause in January to see the effects of the cuts before easing policy any further.    'This intensifies pressure on the ECB to deliver further interest rate cuts,' said Howard Archer, economist at Global Insight. 'The ECB will eventually bring interest rates down as low as 1 percent in 2009,' he said.    'The very sharp fall in industrial production in October adds to the clear evidence that the euro zone recession is deepening,' he said.    Economists said the data reinforced expectations that the economy of the 15 countries using the euro would contract much more markedly in the fourth quarter than the 0.2 percent quarter-on-quarter drops seen in the third and second quarters.    Industrial orders indicate the level of future industrial activity. The data already covers the period when the year-old global credit crunch turned into the worst crisis on financial markets since the 1930s in mid-September and October.    Without volatile orders for ships, planes and trains, orders fell 3.8 percent on the month for a 14 percent annual slump.    Car sales have fallen dramatically as the global financial crisis has gathered steam and top carmakers have been seeking government help to survive the slump in demand.    U.S. automakers on Friday received a promise of $17.4 billion in emergency loans and the French government said last Monday it was ready to act to save the automobile industry in return for commitment to preserving sites in France.    To keep up with the declines in the market, carmakers are frantically slashing costs and extending the usual plant idling over Christmas to save cash as European new car sales in November plunged 26 percent to 932,500 vehicles.    Volkswagen AG, Spanish car maker Seat and Volvo , the world's No. 2 truck maker, last week announced temporary production halts in response to declining sales.    Peugeot, Opel, Renault and Toyota  are also struggling with the falling market and have announced extremely poor results.    (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski and Marcin Grajewski; Editing by Victoria Main) Keywords: EUROZONE ECONOMY/ORDERS    (jan.strupczewski@reuters.com; +32-2-287 6837;  Reuters messaging: jan.strupczewski.reuters.com@reuter  s.net)    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
