The panellists were Andrew Mohl, director Commonwealth Bank and former CEO of AMP; Elizabeth Ann Macgregor, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art; Pat Grier, director and former CEO of Ramsay Health Care; Rebecca Huntley, Australian director of ipsos.com; and Ahmed Fahour, CEO of NABs Australian operations. The ABCs Adam Spencer moderated the event.  ADAM SPENCER: What makes a great leader? How do you lead in tough times and who will be the leaders of tomorrow? Well, here to help me chew through those big issues is an illustrious panel of thinkers and doers who have been all hands on deck through these tough times, as they were in the preceding easy times and many of them the tough times before that. These people are here to help us understand staying power, resilient leadership for today and tomorrow.  PAT GRIER: I want to start with the Ramsay story because that's the one that really kicked my career. When I joined Ramsay I didn't realise what I was getting into. In fact, towards the end of the month, I realised that things weren't all that good. I saw this big rush at about 2 o'clock on a Friday afternoon and I said, Where are all these people going? They said, They're getting their expenses in before the money runs out. It was pretty tough times.  Let me tell you what it was like at that time. First of all, we were mainly psych, 80 per cent of our business was psych. I was soon told by the health funds that they were going to close down on psych very soon. Our products were pretty shaky, wobbly or whatever you want to call it. I remember going to one of our hospitals, just near North Shore Private, and there was this ward where people said,Come along, there's a birthday. And I went along to the birthday. I discovered the person was having his third year in the psych ward, having a birthday there because he had been there three years. He had been there three years. I said, Are these people getting any better? No, no, no, no, no, we don't get them better because that means we don't get the money for them. We've got a problem with our product here.  Then I have realised that the money was a problem, especially when people phoned up and said,I can't pay the tomato bill. The guy who sells us tomatoes, I can't pay him. And I said,Who else is asking? He said this, this. I said, If you don't pay for the tomatoes does that mean your name gets bad in the community? And he said,Yep. And I said,Well, pay the tomato guy and worry about the bandages tomorrow. That was what it was like. It was not good at all.  But we did have some very good people. We were the only ones really in psych. We had some pretty good facilities but we had no direction. So I called all the people together, the doctors and industry people, and really got them all behind us. I remember the strategy meeting that we had. We worked out that we had to delist. Being in the public eye and people beating us, we couldn't do what we wanted to do. We had to sort out our funding. We had to sort out our product. And, thirdly, we had to shape our future. We had to enlist our people. People were leaving, they didn't see any future, they were very worried about our future, et cetera, et cetera.  And so the things that came out of that strategy meeting was, one, we had to sort out our finances; two, we actually had to downsize, we had gone into all sorts of areas that we knew nothing about; and, thirdly, we had to actually get the people behind the organisation. And the other thing we did, we said, we've got to shape our future. So we cleaned up our act, we got the psych starting to work, the product became better, and we actually went to Woolridge and said the health funds are about to foreclose on us. Look at how good a job we are doing now. I think you should bring in legislation that health funds should have to cover psych. That was a major initiative for us to actually try to create our future.  So the things that came out: one was we created our own future, said yes, we'll do that. Also, we put in place management principles that we live with today. We explained to the people what the management principles of Ramsay are all about and we introduced, which Adam talked about just now, we introduced what we call the values of Ramsay which then became The Ramsay Way.  The Ramsay Way has seen us through some very, very tough times. Getting the right people and getting them behind the organisation actually saved us and as far as the psych was concerned, actually made our future. Several times since then we have had to go back to those principles, go back to those values and create a whole new life for Ramsays to get out of other problems. But it was those early days that actually set the direction for Ramsays.  We were down and out, we were mainly psych, we couldn't pay the tomato bills and this sort of thing yet that has actually driven our business through all the tough times and has now given us what we are today. So it is interesting that in tough times if you bring the people together, concentrate them and bring in good leadership you can see through the tough times and come out the other side with a better organisation.  ADAM SPENCER: Thank you Pat Grier. Andrew, Pat began with I didn't realise how bad it was when I arrived. In May 2003, immediately after your first AGM as executive of AMP, you described AMP as essentially in the wrong business in the wrong place at the wrong time. So you at least were aware of how bad it was. How bad was it?  ANDREW MOHL: Well by then we had actually announced the plan to separate the company into two. The stock price had dropped from about $20 down to around $5 so there was enormous loss of value. The media was baying for blood, investors were baying for blood. We had a UK operation that was bleeding badly, that was capital hungry, and there was a fear that that contagion would spread to the Australian business and literally put the whole group at risk.  So, a bit like what Pat was saying, we stood back and said look, this is where we are, this is the situation, how are we going to deal with this? What is going to be in the long-term interests of our shareholders, how do we maximise value. And we came to the view that by creating two companies we would give investors two investments that they could appreciate better and that would realise the full value of the group as a whole. That involved enormous restructuring and change, but that decision was a very farsighted decision that involved a huge amount of the following eight or nine months, through difficult markets and takeover raids from National Australia Bank.  But it really was facing up to the reality and thinking about what was in the long-term interests of the group and driving through, over a pretty long period of time, to achieve that. And, of course, subsequent to that was a pretty strong recovery. As Pat said, getting the foundations right is the basis of sustainable long-term growth.  ADAM SPENCER: I remember reading that on your first night in the job you sent an email to staff stating the situation and your philosophy. What did you say and how would you define your leadership in that crisis period?  ANDREW MOHL: Well, I mean, it was very open. I was expressing in that email the hurt that I was feeling about the state of the group, that people weren't proud to be part of AMP. We were in a state of shock, it was almost disbelief. The media was all over us and what I was laying out was my commitment to lead with passion, commitment and integrity; to sort of drive the group forward and make the tough decisions. Through that whole period we tried very hard to be open to all our stakeholders and we will obviously come back to that point around communication throughout the evening.  I think people described me as a straight shooter, what you saw was what you got. And at the end of the day having credibility, even when the news was bad, was absolutely essential to preserving confidence in what was a diminishing asset for quite a period of time.  ADAM SPENCER: Rebecca, you believe that with younger staff in particular it is crucial that there is an honesty, an openness and a freedom away from jargon and just sort of placid statements from leaders in tough times.  REBECCA HUNTLEY: Yeah, mainly because I think that younger workers are pretty good at picking up on bad slogans and all the rest of it. But it helps all workers. If the top guy can't be honest about the situation then everybody else languishes in their naivety that it is all going to be all right.  ADAM SPENCER: Ahmed, did you guys miss out on a bargain?  AHMED FAHOUR : I didn't realise this was going to be and M&amp;amp;A discussion. Hindsight shows that were lucky to miss.  ADAM SPENCER: What state was NAB in when you got there?  AHMED FAHOUR: The difference between what Andrew was describing and our situation? is interesting. I came to NAB in 2004 and you may remember in 2004 there was a very ugly situation around forex and the loss around some of those traders and what they did and there was a fairly bad board split-up and lots of issues. But the difference was that the company was actually financially strong but it was culturally very weak. The real issues for our company at the time?were financial issues, like costs were a little bit out of control, but the bank was a very strong bank.  What it lacked was integrity, it lacked people who were honest; you know, the traders were obviously very dishonest people. The bank had a huge amount of arrogance. Hubris had set in. And, as we all know, hubris is what gets not only individuals into trouble, not only companies into trouble, but actually gets whole nations into trouble.  I think this is an area that NAB had lost sight of. They thought what was important was themselves and they forgot the most important person was the customer and the staff that worked in the company.  ADAM SPENCER: As a fellow player elsewhere in the financial realm at that stage, And...
