Matthew Quinn CEO, property group, Stockland  speaks to  Narelle Hooper Editor of BOSS magazine  NARELLE HOOPER: What a momentous time weve had. Theres a real sense that we are living through history. So it is excellent timing for our special guest at BOSS Club, Matthew Quinn, the managing director of Stockland. Matthew began his career in the United Kingdom as a chartered accountant and moved to Australia in 1987 with Price Waterhouse. He joined the Rockingham Park group in 1998, which is a Western Australian property group, and was headhunted across to Stockland in 1999, and came into his current role in October 2000.  Now, since then he has taken the company, founded in 1962 by Ervin Graf, on a very substantial expansion path, and it went from something like $1.5 billion market capitalisation to about 7.7billion.  Stockland has held up much better than many on the market if you see what has been happening in the real estate investment trust sector. And hes been voted by fund managers as one of the most admired chief executives in Australia. So, Matthew, from your perspective how do you read the events of the last few days?  MATTHEW QUINN: I think one of the things that happens is that people assume that history repeats itself and all economists, and I hope I am not insulting anybody here, they're all what I call mean reverters, they assume that history repeats itself and history is the best guide to the future, and some of the things we are hearing at the moment are the same as '92, '87, '74, '29, and I think the problem is that this is 2008 and 2009, hopefully not 2010, and were seeing things now for the first time. Even though its a very bumpy ride and it is not nice to go through all of this, well actually look back in 10, 20 years time and say we were around when that happened, half of which we probably know already and half of which we probably dont.  But it brought it home to me when you literally see people in significant positions of authority controlling billions and billions of dollars of investments in some of the derivatives youre talking about, pointing at a computer screen saying that cant happen, when it just has. We are actually seeing things now for the first time because a lot of the derivatives and the financial instruments have only been here for a short period of time and this is all very very new.  NARELLE HOOPER: So where does property sit?  MATTHEW QUINN: There are three common myths flying around about the property industry, and I will bring this back to Australia in the first instance before we talk about overseas.  Firstly, that if it happens overseas it happens here; property values dropped by 30 per cent in the UK, therefore they will drop by 30 per cent in Australia because property is a global asset match. That is just wrong. If the price of iron ore drops, then it hurts the people in Brazil just as much as it does in Western Australia because that is a global commodity, but property is a very micro-driven thing. It is like saying if you have got a house in a certain suburb, it drops by 10 per cent then on the other side of the country or in another country it will drop by the same. That is absolute nonsense. So people have confused globalisation of capital with globalisation of the fundamental assets. So that is the first myth and there is a lot of people who are running for cover because property values are crashing around the world and they are assuming that the same will happen here, even though the circumstances are quite different.  The second myth is things were bad in property. When were they last bad in property? 1992. Oh well, it must be the same as 1992 again and I will run for the hills. Again, a myth. In 1992-1993 the national office vacancy rate was 26 per cent and they were still billing more. It is currently four. Supply and demand was totally different, the economic conditions were totally different. So again just because it happened in 1992 and this was the outcome, it doesnt mean it is going to repeat itself this time. As I keep on saying to people, fortunes are made in our industry at the bottom of the cycle because people overreact and thats the time that you can pick up bargains and you can always tell the bottom of the cycle when certain types of buyer come into the equation and again I will elaborate on that later. And I can imagine the audience can imagine who those people might be. In England a lot of those people live in the northern part of London and Tottenham.  The third myth is that a few property groups have done bad things and bad governance and have really blown up, therefore all property people are bad, and there is such a lack of trust when you talk to investors that you really have to prove to them, look them in the eye, can I really trust you any more because all of your colleagues in your industry who I used to trust have let me down, and without mentioning names, there are literally those who looked people in the eye and told them that everything is fine and then two weeks later have blown up, and because of that there is fear. What you have got to do at the moment is differentiate yourself and say just because X, Y and Z have done that doesnt mean that we are going to do it as well. We have high standards of corporate governance and you can trust us for these reasons.  So it is about dispelling those three myths because at the moment with those three myths there is a huge weight hanging over the Australian property sector which is going to take probably six, 12, 18 months to lift.  NARELLE HOOPER: So youre saying that the translation of the international property reaction does not necessarily come to here?  MATTHEW QUINN: No, I am not saying it is necessarily going to be optimistic and good. It is just that you cant transpose something from overseas and say it will happen here. It is just far too simple.  NARELLE HOOPER: There are expectations that we will have a substantial fall.  MATTHEW QUINN: Property values might fall. They may not, they might. What we have got to do is plan for the fact that they may. There is no point saying that they wont and cross your fingers and if they do, realise that youve got a problem. I keep on saying to the team in our organisation my job first and foremost, and to the board as well, is to make sure that we can withstand whatever the market throws at you. It might mean that you have got to do things quite differently, but you are still able to go to work and have a job because the organisation is not in peril.  Thats why our debt levels are low and we have run our business conservatively because we have always got to plan for the fact that things might not carry on like this. Property values might fall and even if they do, you can withstand it.  NARELLE HOOPER: How do you prepare for a downturn, yet still take advantage of growth opportunities?  MATTHEW QUINN: Yes, it is the biggest challenge. Ive got to say to myself whats the time horizon I should be looking at, because if you take one year, three years or five years  there is no point having more than five years because the world is going to change in that time  at any point in time you have got to be working along that curve. If youre always planning for five years and not planning for the one or three, you are probably not going to be around in five years. You have might have the best big vision but if you dont plan for the short-term as well and work for the short-term youre not going to be around in five years. But if you only work for the next one year or two years, by the time three or four or five come youll look back and say, gee, if only wed done this wed be able to capitalise on the opportunities and develop a much broader strategy, because one thing is for sure, that the world goes in cycles and at some stage the cycle will change and well come out the other end and well look back and say, if only wed done this and picked our opportunities. This is when fortunes are made. Cycles have been with mankind forever. I think the first recession was in Egypt in about 3000 BC.  NARELLE HOOPER:  and that was a really bad one.  MATTHEW QUINN: Cycles are all down to human nature and human nature is, in a lot of cases, about follow the herd. When things are going like that everybody jumps on the bandwagon and it always goes too far and then it falls.  All we are in now is a cycle but a cycle that has really been made worse and exacerbated by the fact that there has been too easy credit, moneys been too cheap, and I think in about 10 years time, maybe five years time well actually be able to look back and say what caused all of this, and I think some of those causes are actually starting to emerge already. The good commentators in the paper are actually picking up on what some of the causes were. Bill Clinton deregulated the financial sector and when you deregulate the financial sector and reduce interest rates to very, very low levels and there are no regulations to stop greed and stupidity happening, then greed and stupidity will happen. People that put their snout in the trough really gobbled it up and we are now paying the price for that.  NARELLE HOOPER:  So is it the end of an era? Glenn Stevens, the Reserve Bank Governor, was talking the other day about now we have to learn to live within our means. Its a new era of austerity. Do you side with him?  MATTHEW QUINN: I do. Im not sure I would be as dramatic as that but we do have to live within our means because debt has been cheap, debt has been freely available and it is like, where does that debt come from? Two years ago we had the wall of money. Everybody remembers the wall of money. Nobody knew where it had come from but they knew it was there, and now the wall of money has just disappeared and no-one knows where it has gone. The whole thing was just an illusion. It was just debt that had been created from nowhere that everybody has borrowed. Now everybody is asking them to pay that debt back...
