GUESTHOUSE owners say they are still being plagued by youths behaving anti-socially near a cashpoint machine despite efforts to prevent late night disturbance.  The owners of B&amp;amp;Bs in Trafalgar Road claim they are still waking up to the sight of trails of urine down the path in front of the Barclays Bank machine, as well as having to cope with the noise from revellers at weekends.  Only last month the embattled guesthouse owners called for the cashpoint to be closed overnight because the problems were particularly bad at 2am when partygoers were congregating outside and making lots of noise and leaving smashed bottles.  Fears were also raised the rowdiness was affecting their trade.  Subsequently, a meeting was held between Barclays representatives and the guesthouse owners at which the bank staff agreed to stick a poster in the bank's window warning customers not to behave anti-socially.  But Pauline Davis, 53, of The Warren guesthouse, said the poster was poorly positioned in a middle window close to the bank's front door rather than beside the cashpoint and customers would not be able to see it.  She added: That poster on its own is not going to do a thing. It is going to do absolutely nothing. I am out there with my broom clearing up the rubbish most weekends. Nothing has changed.  Alan Haley, 55, of The Courtyard guesthouse, said although there was CCTV overlooking the cashpoint, there was no sign alerting customers to its presence which he believed could act as a deterrent against anti-social behaviour.  He added Barclays staff had not fulfilled their promises to monitor the situation site and clean up any mess left behind by revellers.  People are still urinating against both my wall and the wall at the Warren guesthouse. Barclays said they would put measures in place to ensure that on a Saturday and Sunday morning the area would be cleaned. Barclays said they would put these measures in place but nothing has been done about it, Mr Haley said.  The guesthouse owners wanted the cashpoint closed between 11pm and 6am, citing similar examples around the country.  But Barclays spokesman Irene East said the machine would need to stay open so customers could withdraw money.  
