       Greenwich Mean Time   http://www.vanityfair.com/style/features/2009/04/noel200904   Walter and Monica Noel, their five attractive daughters, and their well-connected sons-in-law were flying ever higher on the profits of their Fairfield Greenwich Group, a feeder fund for Bernie Madoff. Then the family watched their world crumble as the accusations began.   by Vicky Ward  Vanity Fair April 2009   December 11, 2008, began much like any other day for Walter Noel: the tall, silver-haired, 78-year-old businessman strolled into the headquarters of his Fairfield Greenwich Group, on Manhattans East 52nd Street. Then employing around 140 people, the company was a (supposedly) diversified alternative investment fund with $14.1 billion under management. Despite the recent turmoil of markets and the massive global demand for redemptions by investors terrified by the credit crisis, Noel was calm and collected, as usual. He had semi-retired two and a half years previously, worked on his golf game, and handed over day-to-day operations to the younger people at his firm, but he still went in to the office most days.   That morning F.G.G. salesman Andrew Douglass was on the phone with a potential investor, pitching a new fund that would invest with top Wall Street broker Bernie Madoff. The fund was named Emerald, and Douglass told the investor that F.G.G. had already raised at least $50 million to put into it. Suddenly a news bulletin came over the Bloomberg wire: Madoff had reportedly confessed to his sons the night before that hed been running a giant, $50 billion Ponzi scheme for years. It [his investment strategy] was all a big lie, hed apparently told them.  Because their firm had 48 percent of its capital tied up with Madoff, F.G.G. executives watched on their office TV screens with particularly acute horror as Madoff, dressed like a courtly grandfather, was handcuffed by F.B.I. agents outside his New York apartment building. Noel went into F.G.G. co-principal Jeffrey Tuckers office to consult on the situation. Tucker tried to reach Madoff by phone, but he was no longer talking to anyone other than his wife, his attorney, and federal and criminal investigators.  Noel called his wife, Monica, now 67, and told her to sit down while he explained what had happened.  Tucker and the Fairfield team were all in shock. According to one source, F.G.G. had recently received a highly unusual call from Madoff, demanding that the company halt its customers redemptions. (A spokesperson for F.G.G. says that, over the life of the funds, redemption requests were honored by Madoff without complaint or delay.) Madoff, usually self-contained, was not known to get irate. Now it was clear why he had behaved so uncharacteristically.  Noel and Tucker are said even to have wired Madoff casha family member calls the amount substantialfrom their personal accounts. (They deny having done so.) They realized now, as someone close to them says, that they should have just burned the dollar bills on the F.D.R.   But Walter Noel was only beginning to realize that it wasnt just his investors money that was gone. So too was his business and his reputation, as well as his familys.   Russell S. Reynolds Jr., an executive-recruitment consultant and an old friend, saw him the next day having lunch with Monica at Greenwichs Round Hill Club. Walter was shaking, he was so upset, Reynolds recalls.  Noel had started F.G.G. in 1983 as a tiny operation, with just a few clients. Originally from Nashville, he had been a private-banking executive for Chemical Bank and Citibank in such diverse locations as Lagos, Switzerland, and Brazil. Tucker, who came on six years later, was the son of an accountant from Brooklyn and was a former lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. Friends say Noel always described Tucker as a prince of a guy.  In 1974, the Noels had purchased for $225,000 ($936,000 in todays dollars)borrowed from both of their familiesa modest house on prestigious Round Hill Road in Greenwich, Connecticut. Even though the house had five bedrooms, the couple made room for their five daughters. According to a friend, the family was popular with its neighbors. Attractive, dark-haired Monica worked her tail off, the friend says, building a small childrens clothing line named Monica Noel. She did it for what she called my shrimp money.   As they grew up, her daughters helped her with it. The eldest four  Corina, Lisina, Ariane, and Alix  went to public and private schools. They spent summers at Monicas parents home in Brazil and skied in Klosters, Switzerland, in winter. Like their mother, they spoke several languages; all were athletic and strikingly beautiful.   In the early years the Noels were well off but not rich by Greenwich standards. Only Marisa, now 31, the youngest daughter by 10 years, got a fancy car  a BMW  to drive as a teenager. This was because by then F.G.G. had brought Noel and Tucker unexpected riches. Quite suddenly, in his 60s, Noel found he had the money for a truly lavish lifestyle that included vacation houses in Palm Beach and Southampton and on the Caribbean island of Mustique.  F.G.G. was sometimes steered to clients by Monica Noels cousins. Half Swiss, half Brazilian, she was a member of the prominent Haegler family. Her cousin Jorge Paulo Lemann is Brazils richest financier and co-owns InBev, Budweisers parent company. But it was Tuckers wife, Melanie, a dedicated tennis player from Scarsdale, who had the connection that made them all rich. Her family knew Bernie Madoff, whose firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, begun in 1960, was a legend on Wall Street for the volume of its over-the-counter (as in off-the-exchange) trades and the clockwork-like returns of 10 to 12 percent a year from its private-investment arm. Tucker introduced Noel to Madoff, although Noel now tells people he never got to know Madoff particularly well sociallyin fact, Monica seems eager to emphasize to friends that in 20 years her family and the Madoffs socialized together perhaps three times.   By the time F.G.G. really got going, its primary product was Fairfield Sentry, a feeder fund into Madoff Securities. In 2006, the S.E.C. concluded that Fairfield had not properly revealed how heavily the fund depended on Madoff, but thereafter the firm bragged about the connection and used it as a selling point.  As Tucker would tell Noel, the difficulty with Madoff was gaining access to the whiz trader. Providing that access was what would justify Fairfields management fees of 1 percent to its clients as well as 20 percent of the returnstwice the normal rate for a typical fund of funds. Madoff supposedly was picky. He often turned investors down. He was reserved. He was a workaholic. He didnt want clients who peppered him with questions about his investment strategy and how he guaranteed such regular returns. But if you were happy to trust him, then each month youd get your 1 percent.   What F.G.G. offered Madoff was new markets. Initially only a small circle of individuals, almost all members of country clubs in Westchester and Palm Beach, invested with him. What Madoff did not have much ofand what F.G.G. could help providewas an international clientele. Accordingly, F.G.G. sold Fairfield Sentry internationally until the funds total exposure to Madoff reached $6.9 billion, almost half the companys assets under management by December 2008.  As Fairfield Greenwich expanded, the most prominent of its salesmen came to be Noels own sons-in-law, whose European and South American backgrounds were invaluable to the firm. As things stand, Walter Noel owns 17 percent of F.G.G.s business, as does Tucker, who like Noel semi-retired two years ago. F.G.G.s chief shareholder is Andrs Piedrahita, who owns 22 percent. Piedrahita, 50, is a short, brash Colombian married to Noels eldest daughter, Corina, 45. The Piedrahitas have four daughters. In 2003, they moved from a mansion in Londons Chester Square to a house in Madrids swanky Puerta di Hierro, and they own a vacation home on Majorca as well as an apartment in the Sherry-Netherland hotel, in New York. They also lease time on a Gulfstream 200 and own a 150-foot yacht, which is being decorated and is due for delivery shortly.  The other Noel sons-in-law have also reaped riches from F.G.G.and all but one of them worked for the firm. Yanko Della Schiava, 44, an Italian married to Noels second daughter, Lisina, 44, sold F.G.G. in Northern Italy and southern Switzerland. The couple live in Milan with their three children.   Noels fourth daughter, Alix, 41, often called the earthiest of the sisters, is married to Swiss-born Philip Toub, 43. Noel put him to work selling Fairfield Greenwich mostly in Brazil, where the Toubs moved before returning recently to Greenwich with their four children.   The familys baby, as she is often called, Marisa, married a dashing New York hedge-fund manager, Matt Brown, 39, in 2002. In 2005 his company merged into F.G.G., where his job was to bring in new business. The Browns, who have three children, recently bought a $13.5 million town house on New Yorks Upper East Side and are renovating it.  Only the third Noel daughter, Ariane, 42, chose a husband who decided not to work for F.G.G. Marco Sodi, 50, is a partner of the media investment bank Veronis Suhler Stevenson. The couple live in London and have five children. The terrible irony is that Sodi invested his personal wealth in Fairfield Greenwich.  Several people have observed that, after the Noels got really rich, they began to be perceived as irritating people who were not so welcome in the places where they bought new housesin Southampton, Palm Beach, and Mustique: the worlds richest and snootiest communities, widely known to be minefields for the socially ambitious.   The Noels vast house on Mustique, named Yemanj, was featuredalong with the N...
