            Remember when Kirk's folks attacked me over this post on how the mortgage crisis was going to affect even those who can afford to pay their mortgages, particularly those who live in shared maintenance areas like condos and homeowner run association subdivisions?Well, and sadly so, time has proven me correct:In some communities, the association has cut back services, sometimes dramatically. For a while, no one was cutting the grass at the Fountains of Tamarac, until a board member and another resident started doing it, Gonzalez said. The association still doesn't have enough money to insure the property.This one seems even sadder to me:When Debra McGarry and her husband, Bernard, a disabled veteran, bought their condo at the corner of Huron Street and Regent Avenue in Providence 18 months ago, they thought it was an affordable housing choice.... But since March, two of the eight owners have stopped paying their monthly condo fees and abandoned their property, according to McGarry. The Bank of America has foreclosed on one of the condos, but the association has not received any fees from the bank, she said.When McGarry took over as condo association treasurer in April, she quickly learned that the association had been in financial trouble even before the two owners defaulted. Although monthly fees had been raised from $195 to $225 in November, there was no money in reserve, and water, heat and electric service were about to be shut off.McGarry raised the condo fee to $275 and obtained a personal credit-card loan of $4,800 to pay past-due bills and retain a lawyer to help her collect back fees.I was the only one who could get a loan, she said.Here's one story from the Midwest:According to the Dallas-based Association, which represents 7,000 community associations in 26 states, including Michigan, delinquency rates on dues are estimated to reach 5%, up from an average of 2%.Local property managers say their numbers are similar.Jon Sabo, who manages Highland Lakes Condos in Northville, says delinquencies are at 5% at the 700-unit complex.This has forced some changes in the way Highland Lakes does business."We've been trying to find efficiencies, cutting our own grass and doing our own snow removal to minimize the impact," he said. You don't even have to live in a shared maintenance area to feel the pain. I took a walk in Poet's Corner yesterday evening and saw an awful lot of for sales signs, some of them even said they were for REOs (sales by the purchaser at a foreclosure sale) and a lot of unmowed lawns. It reminded me of this:For the past six months, he watched the beautifully landscaped yard of his former neighbor's four-bedroom home in the Kingsfield subdivision turn into an overgrown eyesore."There was a nice family that lived there, but they lost it to foreclosure," Minks said, pointing to the grass that had grown nearly 2 feet tall. "The electricity has been off in the house for nearly six months. There must be mold inside the home and the pool is going to be ruined, if it is not already by now. When the wind is blowing in my direction, it reeks. It's just a mess."This is why I never understood why republicans enjoy when their neighbors are impoverished. Poverty is no good for anyone, even the wealthy.           
