Consumer fraud, RICO Act violations, lies, and deception - CCC Valuescope doing USAA and the Insurance industry's dirty work to defraud consumers across America. Corporate corruption in the USA.  July 24, 2008  U.S. Department of Justice  950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW  Washington, DC 20530-0001    FL Department of Insurance Regulation / File 1-506669660   Honorable Attorney General Michael Mukasey,  It is with great displeasure that I have to write you this letter today filing a consumer complaint against CCC Valuescope (CCCG) used by my insurer USAA to allege a fair market value of my automobile.  MADD Victim Services points out Its against the law to kill or injure another human being intentionally, maliciously, with criminal negligence, or while operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol or drugs.  Nancy Stent, a 47 year-old drunk driver and repeat offender, whom Progressive Insurance breached its duty to protect the public when insuring her, was arrested by Volusia County Law Enforcement on July 8, 2008 for driving while intoxicated and causing bodily harm to me and destroying two automobiles before crashing her own.   My insurer USAA has breached its duty to exercise the utmost good faith to me its insured. By using CCC Valuescope (a company violating the U.S. federal RICO Act) USAA has intentionally provided me a low and fraudulent valuation of my automobile in hopes of obtaining an unreasonable and unfair settlement.  CCC Information Services Group Inc. (&amp;#8221;CCCG&amp;#8221;), incorporated in Delaware in 1983 and headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a holding company, which operates through its wholly owned subsidiary, CCC Information Services Inc. (&amp;#8221;CCC&amp;#8221;).  CCC Valuescope (formerly known as CCC Information Services Group Inc  CCCG) can by no means be deemed a fair and market value of automobiles as CCC Valuescope works exclusively for insurers and therefore has an economic interest to supply valuations that are intentionally below the actual fair market value of what insured vehicles are truly worth. It is known fact throughout the insurance industry that CCC gathers its values from what car dealers would sell a vehicle for at basement wholesale prices, not the true retail value of an auto of like kind and quality prior to the accident as mandated by FL insurance regulations.   Cutting costs and denying its insured the utmost due care historically can be documented against USAA beginning with the class action lawsuit against USAA in Washingtons King County (March 12, 1999) for compelling auto repair shops to use &amp;#8220;imitation&amp;#8221; parts in repairs, while simultaneously hiding this practice from policyholders. Beyond auto insurance, USAA has countless complaints filed against it in 27 states across the country.  I noticed that a Mississippi couple - Admiral James Lisanby and his wife Gladys have sued USAA for $910,000, pursuing punitive damages for USAAs neglect and resistance  to pay them what they are rightfully due for the Katrina tornado that tragically took so many peoples homes. This apparently is the 1st Hurricane Katrina insurance lawsuit to go to trial (June 16, 2008). David and Marilyn Aiken (Gulfport, Mississippi) filed a lawsuit against USAA on January 18, 2008 for conspiring to defraud them full payment of their $680,000 homeowner-insurance policy with USAA. As for CCC Valuescope it is not independent in their valuations since they are a hired gun for the insurance companies! Upon conducting a VIN search on the vehicles within the CCC report, many of them had over 20 records indicative of numerous collissions, issues with the vehicle, and several changes of ownership. By relying upon CCCs intentionally low valuation of my vehicle, USAA is breaching its fiduciary duty to act in good faith in handling my claim. No fair and honest evaluation of my claim can be performed by CCC as it is contracted by insurers for the primary purpose of minimizing monies paid out by insurers to its fiduciaries. Hence by using CCC Valuescope, USAA is clearly not exercising the utmost due care in the interest of me its insured as required by Baxter v. Royal Indemnity (FL case law).  Even if CCC Valuescope is currently an Official Used Car Guide in the State of Florida, USAA (and any other insurers for that matter) can still violate the Unfair Trade Practices Act and State administrative regulations by relying on the CCC Valuescope product.  Such was determined also by the Court in the State of West Virginia cited below:  Sharon A. Bolyard and Patricia One-Bull, individually, and on behalf of all others similarly situated v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, Nationwide Assurance Company, Michael Higgins, Raymond Little, and Mary Shafer- No. 062305. Petitioners seek to docket the certified questions from the circuit court as follows: 1. Whether an insurance company can violate the West Virginia Unfair Trade Practices Act or the administrative regulations promulgated thereunder by using, in compliance with West Virginia Code of State Rules 114-14-7.4, the CCC Valuescope valuation product if the Insurance Commissioner approved the CCC Valuescope product as an &amp;#8220;Official Used Car Guide&amp;#8221; pursuant to West Virginia Code  33-6-33, and as defined by West Virginia Code of State Rules 114-14-7.2(d)? ANSWER OF COURT: Yes.  2. Can an insurance company be found to commit common law bad faith, fraud, or constructive fraud for using, in compliance with West Virginia Code of State Rules 114-14-7.4, the CCC Valuescope valuation product if the Insurance Commissioner approved the CCC Valuescope product as an &amp;#8220;Official Used Car Guide&amp;#8221; pursuant to West Virginia Code 33-6-33, and as defined by West Virginia Code of State Rules 114-14-7.2(d)? ANSWER OF COURT: Yes.  CCC admitted itself in its SEC Filing on 3-16-2005 that the Company sometimes pays a new customer for the remaining commitment of its previous contract with third parties as an incentive. In regard to regulation, CCC mentions in the same filing in most states, however, there is no formal approval process for total loss valuation products. CCC itself confesses in the same report individual state departments of insurance have taken positions as to whether the use of CCC Valuescope valuations is in compliance with a states claim handling regulations.  The Company is aware that since 2002 the California Department of Insurance has advised some of the Company&amp;#8217;s customers (which management estimates to be approximately 14% of the total revenue earned in 2004 from the Company&amp;#8217;s CCC Valuescope valuation product and service) that the Department believed that their use of CCC Valuescope had not been in compliance with the California insurance regulations in effect prior to October 4, 2004, with respect to certain components of the products methodology. The Company believes the product was in compliance with the applicable California regulations.  On April 24, 2003, the California Department of Insurance formally adopted new regulations that required the Company to change its methodology for computing total loss valuations in California. There is good reason therefore to believe CCC Valuescopes valuation methodology is terribly flawed and skewed to favor its insurance company customers.  In CCCs annual report filed February 13, 2004 the legal proceedings and numerous class action lawsuits against CCC are documented in pages 35, 42, 43, and 44 of the 53 page report.  On page 35, CCC Valuescope admits to setting aside $4.3 million as an estimate towards potential settlement to resolve potential claims arising out of approximately 30% of the transaction volume of CCC Valuescope.  By acknowledging 30% of transaction volume becoming potential claims, CCC Valuescope thereby makes it public record that it anticipates a sizeable percentage of lawsuits for unfair and fraudulent valuations. Such a high percentage of transaction volume alone attests to the flawed methodology of CCCs report, its unscrupulous dealings, and wholehearted commitment to protect the financial interests of the insurers it serves.  Ironically, four of CCC Valuescopes automobile insurance company customers have made contractual and, in some cases, also common law indemnification claims against CCC for litigation costs, attorneys&amp;#8217; fees, settlement payments and other costs allegedly incurred by them in connection with litigation relating to their use of CCCs flawed TOTAL LOSS valuation product.  Certainly the countless class action lawsuits filed across the United States against CCC Valuescape provides further evidence concerning the grossly low and inaccurate valuations of vehicles they give the insurers they serve. Among the many are:  CCC Settles Class Action Suit on Valuation of Total Loss Vehicles (July 15, 2005)  Chicago-based claims software-maker CCC Information Services Inc. announced that it and 15 of its customers signed a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs in various class action suits pending in Madison County, Ill. These consolidated suits, Case Nos. 01 L 157, et al., relate to the valuation of vehicles that have been declared total losses by insurers.  Terms of the settlement agreement will require CCC to pay notice and administration fees and other costs associated with the settlement. The company estimates that these costs will total about $8 million, and including available insurance proceeds of $1.8 million, the company is fully reserved for these payments. Other settlement costs, including claims by class members, will be paid by the insurance companies that are participating in the settlement.  On or about August 23, 2000, a putative statewide class action was filed in the Circuit Court for Hillsborough County, Florida, against CCC and USAA Casualty Insurance Company. The lawsuit is captioned Peter Sintes et al. v. USAA Casualty Insurance Company and CCC Informat...
