Thisquestion is on many financial wizards&amp;#8217; minds as of late. Yes, $150 billion or so later, some economistsfear that the federal government&amp;#8217;s rescue of troubled insurance giant American International Group may tank nonetheless. AIG hasburned throughnearly $100 billion ofthat loan in just seven weeks - and some argue thatcompany shareholders and taxpayers would have been better served by a plain old-fashioned bankruptcy filing.See the Washington Post&amp;#8217;s story here. It may or may notmake you feel better to know that, on Monday, the Treasury Department andFederal Reserve announced arestructuring ofAIG&amp;#8217;s bailout -easing lending terms, replacing somegovernment credit lines with capital investment, etc. Read detailsin the Wall Street Journal,CNNMoney.com and Business Week stories. The goal hereis to make it easier for AIG to sell its assets and repay its grand debts to you and me. We the Peoplenow own80 percent of AIG. All told, AIG will get more than $150 billion in government aid (you&amp;#8217;ll remember that execs said the$123 billionpackagewould not be enough). The good news: Under this restructuring, AIGmust freeze bonuses and restrict severance pay formany executives. Shortly after the agreement was announced, AIG reported a $24.5 billion third-quarter loss. Gulp. More Watchdog:  Bailed-out banks ordered to reveal executive compensation Oops. That $123 billion may not be enough, AIG says AIG suspends controversial executive payouts worth millions Invisible sponsor of OC wine event: AIG AIG calls off lobbyists, cancels events totalling $80 million Truth or dare? AIG ordered to bare all its secrets AIGs outrageous expenditures cause more trouble AIG subsidiary parties in style in OC, two weeks after bailout AIGs St. Regis blowout bill: $443,344 Saturday Night Live skewers AIG excesses Obama on AIGs $400,000 party: Fire the scoundrels! Yet another AIG subsidiary parties hearty days after bailout Cartoon zinger lampoons AIG bailout Prez didnt push for bailout so execs could get facials Behind the AIG party: A look at the St. Regis 
