 STOP IT ! Even as the company was pleading the federal government for another $40 billion dollars in loans, AIG sent top executives to a secret gathering at a luxury resort in Phoenix last week.  Brian Ross investigates the insurance giant's "seminar" at a posh resort. Reporters for abc15.com (KNXV) caught the AIG executives on hidden cameras poolside and leaving the spa at the Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak Resort, despite apparent efforts by the company to disguise its involvement.  &amp;nbsp; "AIG made significant efforts to disguise the conference, making sure there were no AIG logos or signs anywhere on the property," KNXV reported.  &amp;nbsp; A hotel employee told KNXV reporter Josh Bernstein, "We can't even say the word [AIG]."  &amp;nbsp; A company spokesperson, Nick Ashooh, confirmed AIG instructed the hotel to make sure there were no AIG signs or mention of the company by staff.  &amp;nbsp; "We're trying to avoid confrontation, keep our profile low," said Ashooh. "Some of our employees have been harassed."  &amp;nbsp;  Related 'The Party's Over' for AIG Says CuomoAIG Fights Back on $440,000 Resort Trip: Says No Corporate Execs Attended More from Brian Ross and the Investigative Team"What do they have to hide," asked Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) who said he had been promised by AIG CEO Edward Liddy that the company would stop such "junkets."  &amp;nbsp; "They came to us and said they were drowning and needed help. A person who is drowning doesn't jump up and start partying," said Congressman Cummings.  &amp;nbsp; Cummings said Liddy should resign as AIG CEO.  &amp;nbsp; The AIG spokesman said Cummings "was mistaken" about the nature of the Phoenix event.  &amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; "It's terrible," said former AIG chairman Hank Greenberg. "I don't think the left hand knows what the right hand is doing there."  &amp;nbsp; AIG came under fire last month when Congressional investigators revealed its executives attended a seminar for independent insurance agents at another luxury resort, in Southern California.  &amp;nbsp; The AIG spokesman said the meeting in Phoenix was for independent financial advisors and "was the kind of thing we have to do to run our business."  &amp;nbsp; Company officials confirmed the company spent an estimated $343,000 to sponsor the 2008 Asset Management Conference. A spokesperson said much of the cost would be recouped from product sponsors at the conference.  &amp;nbsp; KNXV said the president of AIG unit Royal Alliance Associates, Art Tambaro, stayed in a two-story Casita suite and worked out at the spa while others participated in seminars.  &amp;nbsp; END THE BAILOUTS ! WE ARE BEING RAPED!! 
