AIG meets at Phoenix hotel while getting more bailout bucks While insurance giant AIG was asking the government for billions more in bailout money, hidden cameras watched AIG employees leave the spa at a swanky Phoenix hotel, according to ABC News chief investigative reporter Brian Ross. Ross said AIG instructed employees of the Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak resort to keep secret what the company called a business seminar last week. No AIG signs were allowed at the hotel and AIG instructed the hotel not to let its staff use the company name in referring to the event. AIG, which received another $40 billion from the federal government last weekend and has now gotten about $150 million under the financial rescue plan, said the meeting was necessary and kept secret because it wanted to keep a low profile and that many of its employees had been harassed in recent times. The company has come under fire for similar outings since it first received federal money. AIG has promised Congress not to use one-cent of taxpayer money for so-called junkets. One key member of Congress, Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Maryland, said Monday that the Phoenix event violated that pledge and that AIG Chief Executive Officer Edward Liddy should resign, without a golden parachute or a bonus for Christmas. &amp;quot;The problem is that they have come to us and said, 'Save us, Congress. Please save us.' A person who is drowning doesn't go jump up and start partying,&amp;quot; Cummings said. He said Liddy apologized for previous junkets, including one that came six days after the federal government gave AIG $86 billion. &amp;quot;But now, they turn around and do this and you begin to say, 'Hey, wait a minute. What's going on here?'&amp;quot; Cummings said. He added, &amp;quot;We made it very clear to them that we do not want one dime of taxpayers money being spent on these junkets... We gave 'em a bailout, then we just bailed them out again, but they act like they're well and they're partying hardy.&amp;quot; AIG said about 50 independent financial advisers, who steer lots of business to AIG, attended last week's seminar, designed to provide continuing education. AIG told Ross that its executives flew coach, even though they were seen in the first-class line. Ross said two top executives at AIG told him they have to keep the business going and that seminars like the Phoenix meeting make a good impression on people who bring the business. He said, when he asked why the meetings were not held at less luxurious hotels, the AIG executives said the company was getting a bum rap.  
