TALLAHASSEE - Florida customers of insurance giant AIG shouldn't panic, despite ominous headlines about the latest Wall Street crisis, Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty said Wednesday. 'We have been told that the insurance companies are solvent and will be able to pay claims. It is important that policyholders continue to pay their premiums to ensure that their coverage does not lapse,' McCarty said in a statement.Most of the corporation's liquidity problems are in its massive holding companies and do not extend to insurance subsidiaries, McCarty said.AIG has 46 subsidiaries operating in Florida - 34 selling property insurance and 12 selling life and health insurance, according to the Office of Insurance Regulation. Only one AIG affiliated company, American General Property Insurance Co., is headquartered in Florida.OIR spokesman Ed Domansky said the agency doesn't have enough information to estimate how many policyholders that represents.The Federal Reserve announced Tuesday it had stepped in with an $85 billion loan as part of a partial government takeover to rescue the company. 'Right now, we're really trying to play up the good news,' Domansky said. 'This does not affect the insurance companies.' Even if the news were bad, McCarty pointed out that there are backups for insurance companies that get into financial trouble, including the Florida Insurance Guarantee Association.FIGA is only one of several industry-based safety nets that have the ability to raise funds from policyholders of the more than 2,500 companies doing business in Florida, said spokeswoman Michelle Newell Lovern.McCarty's statement came a day after Florida Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink reassured Gov. Charlie Crist and her fellow Cabinet members that the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy filing won't have a dramatic effect on the state's $24 billion treasury.Sink reported that the treasury, which she called the state's 'checking account,' held $139.5 million worth of Lehman bonds as of last Friday, or about 0.6 percent of the entire portfolio.On Wednesday, Republican partisans accused Sink of sending mixed signals after she participated in a press conference on behalf of fellow Democrat and presidential nominee Barack Obama.Despite her efforts the day before to calm jitters about state investments, Sink told reporters on Wednesday that Florida is in poor shape financially and that the U.S. economy is facing challenges it hasn't seen since the Great Depression.Sink said she was hunting for news of AIG's fate on Tuesday night when she turned on the TV and heard McCain proclaiming that the U.S. economy was fundamentally sound. 'I just had to ask myself, which cabbage patch has he been living in?' Sinks said. 'The fundamentals of our economy are in trouble. We can't afford to have another president who is so out of touch.' Republican Party of Florida Chairman Jim Greer accused Sink of losing sight of her priorities. 'As (CFO), she tells Floridians that everything is fine and then she puts on her political hat and tells everyone that everything is not,' Greer said. 'This is typical of the distortions that we have seen all along in the Obama campaign.'
