 The deal - the biggest of its kind in UK banking history - comes after HBOS shares plunged in this week's market turmoil.  Ministers have said they will intervene to push the takeover through.It must also be confirmed by shareholders and the Financial Services Authority.The takeover will create a new banking giant with around a third of the mortgage and savings markets.It will be headed by Lloyds TSB's current chairman and chief executive.HBOS chairman Dennis Stevenson said: 'This is the right transaction for HBOSand its shareholders.' Sky business correspondent Joel Hills said: 'It's a straight-forward takeover. 'HBOS, I have been told, has conceded there's been a total failure of confidence in the business model despite constant reassurances ... they were not having funding difficulties.Financial Surgery AAre you worried how the merger might affect you? Watch Sky News at 8.45am when Jasmine Birtles, editor of Money Magpie.Com and a member of the Sky News Money Panel, will be available to answer your questions. Email Sky News or text 84501. 'I think it's very clear that there were two big issues, with the fall in share price reflecting concerns about its exposure to the capital market and that it was struggling.' The new super bank will have 38 million customers, and will deal with 40% of all current accounts and nearly 30% of all outstanding mortgages. Together the two banks will also have a total of 3,000 branches and employ around 150,000 staff - experts say 40,000 workers could be axed.  Sky News business correspondent Joel Hills  Meanwhile, turbulence across the markets has continued this morning.In Tokyo, Japan's Nikkei opened down nearly 1.5%. For the third day running, the Bank of Japan made an emergency offer of funds by injecting over $14bn dollars into money markets.In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng also opened down, at 3.9%.Shares also plunged in the US - the Dow Jones slid just over 4% at the close. The index of s in the UK closed more than 2% down on Wednesday.   Shares in HBOS had taken a hammering all week but recovered markedly on reports of the merger talks.A few years ago the creation of such a banking colossus would have been forbidden for being against the public interest.But the Government has said it will waive competition rules in the interests of financial stability.The merger is the latest episode in a dramatic week which has seen the collapse of 158-year-old investment bank Lehman Brothers and the 47.2bn bail-out of US insurance giant AIG.Central banks around the world have pumped tens of billions of pounds into money markets to try to ease nerves.Lloyds TSB is to take over rival Halifax Bank of Scotland in a 12.2bn rescue deal, it has announced.
