LONDON (ShareCast) - US stocks suffered their worst one-day fall since the 1987 crash on Monday, after the House of Representatives shocked investors by voting to reject the Bush administration's $700bn bail-out plan. The vote effectively torpedoed unprecedented government interventions to quell the fear in the financial markets which had earlier seen five US and European banks rescued or nationalised and the world's central banks unleashing a gigantic global liquidity operation, reports the FT. Bank charges and insurance premiums are set to rise after high street banks and insurers were ordered to pay up to 14bn under the terms of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley's nationalisation. All banks face huge increases in the levy they pay to the deposit lifeboat, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, after it borrowed 14bn from the Government to underwrite Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley deposits transferred to Banco Santander. Banks and building societies will be asked to chip in 900m a year just to pay the interest on the bill. That works out at more than 100m each for large banks such as Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays, writes the Times. The FT adds that the move move prompted an angry reaction from the UK's 59 building societies. "We are concerned at the use of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to help rebuild a nationalised bank's balance sheet," said John Goodfellow, chairman of the Building Societies Association. "As deposit taking institutions our members will be badly hit by this." A crucial report that could kick-start Britain's moribund mortgage market has been delayed by a fortnight so it can be updated to take September's market turbulence into account. The report by a committee led by Sir James Crosby, the former chief executive of HBOS and commissioned by Alistair Darling, is likely to address whether the Government should renew or extend the Bank of England's Special Liquidity Scheme past January 2009 or guarantee high-quality mortgage-backed securities, reports the Times. Question marks are hanging over the future of some of Britain's biggest high street names, including Hamleys, Karen Millen and House of Fraser, after the economic crisis hit an unlikely corner of the world more than 1,000 miles from the West End. The Icelandic Government was forced to nationalise Glitnir, the country's third-largest bank, and the ripple effect threatens to engulf nearly 20 high street brands, reports the Times. Ireland's banks suffered their biggest one-day fall in share price for two decades on Monday as fears swept the Dublin market about their ability to withstand the downturn in the Irish economy amid the global financial turmoil. Anglo Irish Bank, the specialist property lender, plunged 45%, while Irish Life &amp;amp; Permanent, the bancassurer and the republic's largest mortgage provider, fell 34%. Allied Irish Banks weakened nearly 16% and Bank of Ireland lost 15%, reports the FT. The two big UK tour operators will gain as the others face greater pressure and do-it-yourself holidaymakers return to package deals, according to Peter Long, Tui Travel's chief executive. After Tui and Thomas Cook produced bullish, uncannily similar pre-close trading updates, the fallout from the demise of XL, the smaller rival, this month became clearer, with the big two likely to push up prices and cut capacity further, writes the FT. 
