LONDON: Global equities tumbled for a second day running yesterday as anxious investors waited to see if US insurance giant AIG would suffer the same fate as bankrupt US investment bank Lehman Brothers. London and Frankfurt each plunged by nearly 1.5 percent after markets had crumbled across Asia and on Wall Street overnight.US stocks extended their steep decline and bond prices jumped yesterday, a day after Wall Street's worst session in years, as nervous investors grappled with concerns about insurer American International Group Inc and awaited the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates.Worries about the well-being of AIG have intensified after the several ratings agencies reduced their ratings on the company. Lower ratings can add to the amount of money the already cash-strapped company has to set aside. Investors are fearful that a failure by the world's largest insurance company would touch off a wave of financial turmoil. AIG fell $3.09, or 65 percent, to $1.67 in early trading. Comments from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. about the banking sector added to investors' glum mood.Markets around the world were still reeling from the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the quickly assembled weekend sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co to Bank of America Corp. Investors fear that tectonic shifts in the power structure of Wall Street signal that the financial sector's trouble with imperiled credit are far from over.In the first half-hour of trading, the Dow fell 48.61, or 0.45 percent, to 10,868.90. The Dow fell as much as 175 in the opening minutes of the session; on Monday, the Dow lost 504 points, its largest drop since the September 2001 terror attacks.Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard &amp;amp; Poor's 500 index declined 11.59, or 0.97 percent, to 1,181.11, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 19.83, or 0.91 percent, to 2,160.08.Bond prices jumped as investors sought the safety of government debt. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.30 percent from 3.41 percent late Monday.Tokyo closed at the lowest level for more than three years yesterday but losses were exaggerated as the Japanese market had been closed on Monday owing to a public holiday and had to catch up on events. Meanwhile losses in Europe yesterday were far less severe than they had been a day earlier, when London and Paris had closed down almost four percent.The fact Wall Street extended its losses right through the session ... is likely to leave Europe under further pressure,' said CMC Markets dealer Matt Buckland.As nervousness continued to grip dealers across the globe, the European Central Bank, Bank of England and Bank of Japan together injected 134 billion dollars into money markets to boost liquidity.There was a glimmer of hope, meanwhile, for thousands of workers set to be officially laid off by Lehman, as British bank Barclays said it was in discussions about possibly buying certain assets of the stricken US investment bank.The Wall Street Journal had reported that a deal for Lehman's broker-dealer business would see at least 10,000 staff at the US group transfer to the third biggest British bank.The financial market turmoil stemming from the collapse of Wall Street giant Lehman Brothers has meanwhile boosted odds for a cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve yesterday, analysts said. - Agencies
