Harriet Johnson BrackeySouth Florida Sun-SentinelReleased : Tuesday, September 16, 2008 4:00 AMSep. 16--A historic Wall Street investment bank, Lehman Brothers, vanished into bankruptcy Monday. Merrill Lynch, one of its best known brokerages, was merged with Bank of America. American International Group, the world's largest insurance company, teetered on the brink.Investors around the globe sent stocks tumbling on fears that the financial panic is not yet over. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 504.48 points, or 4.4 percent, to close at 10,917.51, its lowest point since mid-July'I feel very, very bad for all the people losing all this money,' said Fred Savlowitz. He's a Boca Raton retiree who has lost a substantial sum since last week on his investment in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were taken over by the government last week. 'The government's bailing out the major corporations, but it is the small investors who are getting hurt,' Savlowitz said.With bombshell after bombshell coming their way, how much more bad news can investors handle? And how should they respond?Investment pros, as a group, urge no swift changes in course, despite the extraordinary market turmoil of the past six months. The risk of investing is something they say you should factor into your decisions on whether to be in stocks at all, how much to invest and whether the risks will keep you awake at night.'We've never made money selling into fear and panic,' said Alan Bernstein, president of Stratigraphic Asset Management, a Miami firm that manages $150 million.If you've reached your limit of market worry, a better course of action than selling now would be to wait for a rebound, when you can start gradually shifting money to places that make you feel more comfortable, said David Norris, senior vice president of Oaktree Asset Management in Boca Raton. The firm manages about $320 million.Declaring the current financial crisis 'unique but not different,' Certified Financial Planner Harold Evensky, of Evensky &amp;amp; Katz, a Coral Gables firm that manages more than $600 million, ticked off a list of meltdowns in recent years that the economy and the markets have survived. He listed the 1970s energy crisis, the 1980 interest rate meltdown when the prime rate reached 21.5 percent, the 1985 savings and loan failures nationwide and the global recession in 1992.The biggest bombshell hit Monday, when Lehman Brothers Holdings, which survived both the Civil War and the Great Depression, went into bankruptcy. It held $60 billion in real estate holdings that went bad.Next up, AIG asked the Federal Reserve for a $40 billion loan. New York Governor David Patterson stepped in and arranged for AIG to borrow $20 billion from its own subsidiaries to stay in business. AIG stock plummeted almost 60 percent Monday to close at $5.13.Here's what Monday's news means to:--Merrill brokerage customers: Bank of America takes over Merrill for $50 billion in stock. Merrill's 16,000 financial advisers will join 4,000 other advisers at Bank of America to form the world's largest brokerage. Together, they'll have $2.5 trillion in client assets. Bank of America is paying a 70 percent premium over last Friday's closing price for Merrill shares.--Lehman Brothers and Neuberger Berman customers: While the parent company Lehman Brothers Holdings went into Chapter 11 federal bankruptcy protection, the brokerage Lehman Brothers and money management unit Neuberger Berman did not.Regulators said all client assets have been accounted for and both units will continue to operate.Lehman stock closed at 21 cents, down 94 percent from Friday. Insurance customers of AIG: 'One thing you should not do is panic,' said Jack Dolan, a spokesman for the American Council of Life Insurers.Insurers, by law, who do business in Florida are part of a guaranty association that steps in if an insurance company becomes insolvent.--Banks: Perhaps the biggest threat ahead is the potential for a string of bank failures. So far this year, 11 have failed, more than triple last year's number. One that's suffered from rumors is Washington Mutual, which closed Monday at $2. It has traded as high as $39.25 in the last 52 weeks.Ten banks Monday said they had formed a $70 billion fund to ease the bank and brokerage credit shortages. facing banks and brokerages.'The bottom line is, the credit crunch is going to get worse,' said Miami-based banking analyst and economist Ken Thomas said.Staff writer Paul Owers contributed to this report. Information from the Associated Press was used in this report.To see more of the South Florida Sun-Sentinel or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.sun-sentinel.com.Copyright (c) 2008, South Florida Sun-Sentinel Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.Provider:Knight-Ridder / Tribune Business News / South Florida Sun-Sentinel
