NEW YORK - A stunning makeover of the Wall Street landscape sent stocks falling precipitously Monday, with the Dow Jones industrials losing 500 points in their worst slide since the September 2001 terrorist attacks.Investors recoiled after a shakeup of the financial industry that took out two storied names:  and Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. The pullback, which erased about $700 billion in shareholder wealth, occurred across much of the globe as investors absorbed Lehman's bankruptcy filing and what was essentially a forced sale of Merrill Lynch to  for $50 billion in stock.While those companies' situations had reached some resolution, the market remained anxious about , which is seeking funding to shore up its balance sheet. A faltering of the world's largest insurance company likely would have implications far beyond that of Lehman, already the largest U.S. bankruptcy in terms of assets.Wall Street had been hopeful six months ago that the collapse of  would mark the darkest day of the credit crisis. 'We have a very, very nervous market and folks hate uncertainty,' said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at Wachovia Securities in St. Louis. 'They've been waiting for another shoe to drop and two of them dropped on Sunday.' The Dow fell 504.48, or 4.42 percent, to 10,917.51, moving below the 11,000 mark for the first time since mid-July. It was the worst point drop for the Dow since it lost 684.81 on Sept. 17, 2001, the first day of trading after the terror attacks.In percentage terms, the drop was the steepest since July 19, 2002. It was also the sixth-largest point drop in the Dow, just behind the 508.00 it suffered in the October 1987 crash.The Dow is now down about 23 percent from its record high of 14,198.09 last October.World stock markets turned sharply lower.In Europe, the FTSE-100 share index closed down 3.9 percent in London on Monday, the Paris CAC-40 was off 3.8 percent and Germany's DAX 30 index of blue chips sagged 2.7 percent.Japan's stock market, which was closed Monday for a holiday, opened with steep losses today. The benchmark Nikkei stock index dropped more than 4 percent in early trading. South Korea's leading stock index also shed 5.4 percent in the first 20 minutes of trading today after reopening following Monday's holiday.AIG pared some of its losses after New York Gov. David Paterson said the company will be allowed to access $20 billion of assets held by its subsidiaries to stay in business. Paterson asked the state's insurance regulators to in essence allow AIG to provide a bridge loan to itself. Investors are worried that the company could need up to $40 billion to aid its balance sheet.Other financial stocks fell as investors worried about the strength of banks' balance sheets.  fell 73 cents, or 27 percent, to $2, while Wachovia Corp. fell $3.56, or 25 percent, to $10.71. Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Ratings Service late Monday cut its counterparty credit rating on WaMu to junk, to 'BB-' from 'BBB-' Meanwhile, Florida's treasury said it will try to sell its $35.4 million of Lehman Brothers subordinated debt. 'The total exposure represents less than 0.6 percent of Treasury investments, which total $24 billion,' Florida's Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink said in a news release Monday.Information from Bloomberg News was used in this report. 
