John McCain called for an end to the 'casino culture on Wall Street' and Barack Obama demanded protection for ordinary investors on Wednesday as financial markets stumbled again on news of a government bailout of a giant U.S. insurer.The financial turmoil, the worst since the Great Depression, kept the U.S. economy at the forefront of the presidential campaign. Republican McCain, a longtime supporter of financial deregulation, joined Democrat Obama in demanding new rules to eliminate Wall Street permissiveness.The Federal Reserve effectively took control of American International Group on Tuesday, the fourth huge firm the government has had to prop up in the continuing crisis over plummeting U.S. mortgage values. 'These actions stem from failed regulation, reckless management, and a casino culture on Wall Street that has crippled one of the most important companies in America,' McCain said. 'We need strong and effective regulation, a return to job-creating growth and a restoration of ethics and the social contract between businesses and America,' he added. Obama used a two-minute advertisement to address the economy and call for ending 'the 'anything goes' culture on Wall Street with real regulation that protects your investments and pensions.' Neither candidate for the November 4 election clearly stated whether he supported the government bailout of AIG. McCain told ABC's 'Good Morning America,' 'On the bailout itself, I didn't want to do that.' But then he added, 'There were literally millions of people whose retirement, whose investments, whose insurance were at risk here, and they were going to have their lives destroyed because of the greed and excess and corruption.' Obama issued a statement calling the action a 'final verdict on the failed economic philosophy of the last eight years.' ECONOMIC FUNDAMENTALSMcCain and Obama agreed the bailout should protect Americans who hold AIG insurance policies, retirement plans and other AIG accounts, and they rejected any bailout for managers, speculators or shareholders.Obama sought to link McCain to the market turmoil, saying, 'The crisis serves as a stark reminder of the failures of crony capitalism and an economic philosophy that sees any regulation at all as unwise and unnecessary.' 'Despite his eleventh-hour conversion to the language of reform, Sen. McCain has subscribed to this philosophy for 26 years in Washington and the events of this week have rendered it a colossal failure.' McCain dismissed Obama's approach during a stop at a GM plant in Lake Orion, Michigan. 'Now's the time to grow the economy and my plan does that,' he told reporters. 'Sen. Obama's does not. He has said in recent days that he may delay his economic plan because of the adverse impact of his tax increases. Even Sen. Obama admits that the agenda he's been pushing would hurt our economy, not help it. That's exactly the wrong approach.' McCain insisted again he was referring to the American worker when he said on Monday, during the worst day on Wall Street in seven years, that the fundamentals of the economy were sound. Workers 'are the fundamentals of America. They're still strong,' he told ABC. But Obama's campaign refused to let him off the hook. 'If John McCain thinks the fundamentals of our economy are sound then there's something fundamentally wrong with his understanding of the economy,' said campaign spokesman Tommy Vietor.(Additional reporting by Caren Bohan; Writing by David Alexander; editing by David Wiessler)
