Three days after Barclays, the British bank, failed to reach a deal that would have salvaged Lehman Brothers, it announced Wednesday that it had struck an agreement to buy the broken investment firms core capital markets businesses for the fire-sale price of $1.75 billion  far less than Lehman had hoped for.The accord, announced in London on Wednesday, could save 8,000 to 10,000 Lehman jobs and allow Robert E. Diamond Jr., the president of Barclays, to attain his longtime goal of expanding his banks reach in the United States. If you want to transform yourself from a minor player into a major firm, this is the time to do it, said Roger Nightingale, a global strategist at Pointon York in London. Its so difficult to do that in an ordinary period. 'Barclays have long been trying to establish themselves on Wall Street and Lehmans demise offers an opportunity theyre not willing to miss,' said Angus Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads in London.A statement from Barclays on Wednesday confirmed the price of $1.75 billion. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity for Barclays, said Mr. Diamond. The deal, which also includes Lehmans Midtown Manhattan headquarters building and two data centers  accounting for $1.5 billion of the deals value  must be approved by a judge overseeing Lehmans bankruptcy proceedings. Barclays said it expected to raise $1 billion in equity to support the deal.Lehman, staggered by losses on its commercial and residential real estate assets, filed for bankruptcy protection of its holding company Monday morning.Barclays is taking on Lehmans large fixed-income trading operations, while avoiding a purchase of the large portfolio of toxic real estate assets that forced Lehman into bankruptcy, people involved in the process said.Lehman is still trying to sell the bulk of its investment management division by Thursday or Friday. Two private equity groups, Bain Capital and Hellman &amp;amp; Friedman, are seen as the most likely buyers.Lehman had hoped to get as much as $5 billion for its investment management business, though it may not even receive that amount after the bankruptcy filing. If it gets the full $5 billion and $1.75 billion from the sale of its capital markets unit, the combined amount would value Lehman at around $10 a share  the same fire-sale price at which Bear Stearns was sold to JPMorgan Chase.The steep discount on Lehmans remaining assets stands in stark contrast to the $50 billion secured by Merrill Lynch when it sold itself to Bank of America on Sunday.Mr. Diamond, an ex-Morgan Stanley banker, said repeatedly that he saw an opportunity for Barclays in the credit market turmoil and planned to grab market share from larger rivals. Lehman is selling businesses, including its asset management and brokerage arms, after the biggest Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing ever.Mr. Diamond canceled a strategy briefing with analysts in London on Monday and another in New York on Tuesday to focus on the discussions with Lehman. According to people with knowledge of the latest discussions, Lehman executives contacted Barclays executives late Monday and asked whether they would be interested in a deal. Barclays executives are said to have jumped at the opportunity to buy Lehmans investment banking and trading platform  a purchase they believe can bolster the fortunes of their American investment bank. At Lehmans Times Square headquarters on Tuesday, Mr. Diamond and Lehmans president, Herbert H. McDade III, ventured onto the trading floors to announce the tentative deal to employees, according to a person present. At around 2:30 p.m., Mr. McDade and Mr. Diamond made their way to a far corner trading desk on the fourth floor of Lehmans offices to talk with employees about the deal, according to the person who was present. I just want you guys to know this is going to be official, Mr. Diamond said, in his cool, understated style, before he was interrupted. Youre fired! an employee barked, drawing laughter from the group. Mr. Diamond stuck to his talking points.Mr. Diamond discussed the benefits of combining Barclays leading position in Europe with Lehmans strength in the United States. Then he showered praise on Mr. McDade, making no mention of Richard S. Fuld Jr., Lehmans chief executive. Ive been living with Bart for four days, and Bart is a great leader, Mr. Diamond said. Barts been fighting for you every step of the way. A few minutes later, God Save the Queen blared over the loudspeaker.Senior managers also met with traders on their floors to discuss the new regime. They were told they would be paid 75 percent in cash and 25 percent in stock, eliciting a cheer. Lehman employees were previously paid with large amounts of stock, now almost worthless.It was not immediately clear whether any proceeds from the sales would flow to Lehman shareholders rather than creditors in the bankruptcy proceeding. In its filing, Lehman listed liabilities of $613 billion and assets of $639 billion.The tentative agreement to buy Lehmans capital markets businesses came just days after Barclays walked away from a possible rescue of Lehman because it failed to get government guarantees to support the troubled real estate portfolio.As Bank of America bolstered its profile with its purchase of Merrill Lynch, Mr. Diamond may have felt added pressure to meet his goal of creating a universal bank that can compete directly with American-based giants like Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America.Barclays wrote down 2.4 billion, or $4.4 billion, of assets in the first half of this year. A rival, Royal Bank of Scotland, reported 5.9 billion of write-downs.Barclays said earlier this year that it did not need extra capital after raising 4.5 billion in a share sale in June that attracted investments from Qatar, Temasek Holdings of Singapore, China Development Bank and the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation of Japan.John Varley, chief executive of Barclays, said at the time that the bank planned to spend half of the money raised to take advantage of the current market circumstances. Even if Barclays buys some Lehman Brothers assets, it will not turn into a universal bank overnight. Lehmans investment banking presence in the United States, while respected, does not rival that of Merrill Lynch or Morgan Stanley, financial analysts said.Barclays shares fell 2.5 percent in London on Tuesday.If anything, the events of recent days appear to some to confirm Mr. Diamonds long-held view that investment banks should now reside within the more restrictive confines of a commercial bank. The relevance of the stand-alone investment bank has diminished, Mr. Diamond said during an interview in 2004, around the same time that firms like Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers began their final booming ascent, propelled by leverage, risk taking and an aggressive foray into the United States market for mortgages. They lend as if they had balance sheets, he said dismissively last year.
