Ten leading investment houses had been poised to publish a joint statement of support for HBOS last Wednesday in an attempt to stem the collapse in confidence in the bank, The Times has learnt.The institutions decided to make the unprecedented move in the face of a selling and short-selling binge that sent HBOS shares plummeting to only 88p at one point.Before the button could be pressed, news emerged of the takeover approach from Lloyds TSB. We were overtaken by events, said one fund manager familiar with the plan, which was shelved.Shares in Lloyds and HBOS were hit yesterday as analysts continued to fret that the combined bank may still be hampered by its overreliance on wholesale funding. HBOS shares slumped by 14 per cent to 180.2p, while Lloyds slid 5 per cent to 261p. Eric Daniels, chief executive of Lloyds, has embarked on a roadshow to sell the merits of the 12 billion takeover to a sceptical City. He has been telling institutional investors that even in the event of a severe recession and a worsening of financial market conditions, the deal would still make sense.One institution also came away with the impression that Lloyds and HBOS expect to make much larger savings than the more than 1 billion promised, but they cannot say so for political reasons. Job losses could be very heavy. They smiled gently when they said theyd look to exceed those levels, one investor said, adding that he was convinced the synergies could be three times the official target.HBOS shareholders are nevertheless furious that the Bank of England left it so late to act. One believes that the final collapse in HBOS shares could have been averted if the Bank had announced plans to extend the Special Liquidity Scheme earlier.Analysts were sceptical about a plan floated by Jim Spowart, the founder of HBOSs online bank Intelligent Finance, for Scottish business grandees to buy the old Bank of Scotland business out of HBOS for 6 billion. They said that Bank of Scotland was much too irrevocably integrated with the wider Halifax to be extricated. Mr Spowart said: Im not saying that last week was the wrong deal and it might be the only deal in town but I think we now have to look at the various alternatives. Scotch promiseAlex Salmond, the Scottish First Minister, said yesterday that Lloyds TSB executives had agreed to listen to calls for key decision-making functions to be located in Scotland if its takeover of HBOS goes ahead. He said that bank chiefs had agreed to take a submission on the calls during talks in Edinburgh yesterday. They are deeply aware of the fabric and the meaning of the Bank of Scotland as this iconic brand and this iconic institution in Scottish society stretching back over 300 years, Mr Salmond said. The moves were disclosed by Mr Salmond after talks with Archie Kane, the Lloyds TSB executive director. 
