Labour challenged Alex Salmond to dump his 'damaging' local income tax plans in a bid to persuade Lloyds TSB to keep headquarters functions in Scotland after the HBOS takeover. The challenge was issued by Labour leader Iain Gray at First Minister's Questions in Holyrood. Mr Gray said: 'There is a consensus which says this proposal damages the case for keeping that headquarters here. I ask the First Minister to join that consensus and show he is serious about that case.'But Mr Salmond retorted: 'The consensus of the Scottish people is that they want fairer and local tax. It will benefit the vast majority of families in Scotland - and benefit the vast majority of workers in the financial sector.'That is one of the reasons why it is so popular.'The challenge, and Mr Salmond's response, came in sharp exchanges between the two party leaders over the HBOS takeover. Mr Gray began his attack by suggesting Mr Salmond was 'entirely at odds' with his council of economic advisors on the issue.Mr Gray said: 'Frances Cairncross praised the UK Government's action on HBOS, John Kay said the takeover was not caused by spivs and speculators, and Sir George Mathewson says the First Minister's views are ignorant. Who's right - the First Minister or his advisors?'Mr Salmond recalled that Mr Gray had voiced his anger at speculators last week, when he told MSPs anyone celebrating a profit should 'go to the fire'.'All I was wanting to do was take their money away,' said the First Minister. 'Iain Gray was sending them to hellfire - I think Iain Gray's right.'The CBI said the tax could damage hopes of growing the economy and attracting talent to Scotland, and other business bodies and unions agreed. Mr Gray added: 'Will the First Minister strengthen Scotland's case for the HBOS HQ right here, right now, by committing today to ditch his damaging local income tax plans?'Mr Salmond replied: 'Iain Gray should join the consensus of the Scottish people, who think that the days of the council tax should be over and local income tax should come in.'Copyright (c) Press Association Ltd. 2008, All Rights Reserved.
