$7.8 billion. That's how much money the more than 20,000 Connecticut workers with Wall Street-type jobs earned last year, according to state labor department figures. That's not counting the money those workers made in their own stock and bond accounts. And it doesn't count the income of thousands of state residents who work in the securities industry over the border in New York, on or near Wall Street itself  true fortunes in some cases. Now, in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the fire sale of Merrill Lynch, two huge investment banks, a lot of people are wondering just how many of Connecticut's big-income earners might soon be out of work. Peter Gioia of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association expects a bloodbath. 'There's no way to sugarcoat this,' Gioia said of securities industry job losses in and outside the state. 'It's going to be very bad.' Others think the decision by the British bank Barclays to buy Lehman's assets, and the Bank of America acquisition of Merrill Lynch, will help mitigate the job losses. Connecticut's large share of hedge funds, which can thrive even as stock markets roil, may also offer a buffer against losses. 'Obviously there's going to be some redundancy,' state labor economist John Tirinzonie said. 'But it won't be as bad as if Merrill Lynch just went under.' Connecticut residents will earn a grand total of $198 billion in income this year, and the big question is how much of that will disappear as the high-paying securities industry weathers a storm. Nobody has the basic data necessary to figure out a worst-case scenario for Connecticut. The state labor department can tell you that 22,900 people work in securities-industry jobs inside the state, and MetroNorth can tell you that 24,400 people make trips from Connecticut train stations to Grand Central Terminal on a given weekday morning. But nobody knows how many Connecticut residents work in securities-related jobs in New York and elsewhere. 'We've looked for those numbers for years,' said Joe McGee, vice president of public policy for The Business Council of Fairfield County and a former state economic development commissioner. If anyone should know, it's the folks in Fairfield. Not only do a sizable number of Gold Coast residents commute to New York for all types of work, but also as the center of the securities industry within Connecticut, the pulse of Wall Street beats stronger there than anywhere else. Of the state's securities industry jobs  at investment banks, brokerage houses, hedge funds, commodities brokerages, money management firms and the like  nearly 18,000 of them are in Fairfield County. UBS, Morgan Stanley, Smith Barney, Jeffries &amp;amp; Co. and many others have operations there, not to mention an estimated 700 hedge funds. Hartford and New Haven counties also have a share of the securities action, but it's much smaller, about 2,000 and 900 industry jobs, respectively. The New York City comptroller says there are about 350,000 securities industry jobs in that city, accounting for about 11 percent of the city's payroll employment. 'There's no question that Connecticut  Greenwich, New Canaan, Darien  is a neighborhood of choice for investment bankers,' McGee said. 'And we've benefited significantly from their decision to live here. They buy our houses.' There's already evidence that financing those houses will become harder, even for Wall Streeters who keep their jobs. The average annual wage for a securities industry worker in Connecticut was $353,655 in 2007  a figure that could drop even if the number of jobs remains steady. Tim Malburg, president of Capstone Mortgage Co. in Wilton, a mortgage brokerage, said some lenders have begun to disallow expected bonuses  a primary source of income for many Wall Street workers  as income when calculating debt-to-income ratios. 'I can understand why,' he said. 'It may not be there.' Even the affluent restrict spending when their income falls or is at grave risk. And thousands of Wall Street workers now face the prospect of layoffs  as many as 40,000, according to a doomsday estimate by New York state officials. 'There will be a considerable number of those jobs coming out of Fairfield County,' said Donald Klepper-Smith, an economist with DataCore Partners in New Haven. The extent to which securities firms based in Connecticut cut workers will depend, in part, on the nature of their relationships with troubled financial institutions elsewhere, he says. 'When the deals don't get done, the demand for labor is going to start drying up, as well,' Klepper-Smith said. With disaster on the horizon, economists at the New York Federal Reserve and the labor departments of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have joined forces in an effort to establish what everybody wants to know  how many residents in each state hold Wall Street jobs, wherever they hold them. 'We have a lot of commuters into New York City,' said Roger Therrien, research director for Connecticut's labor department. 'Some of them are going to be affected. To what extent, we can't readily tell.' Contact Eric Gershon at egershon@courant.com.
