Well, , but one Washington player, Nancy Pelosi, doesnt seem to have much sympathy for the various struggling financial giants. House Speaker  and will demand testimony from Bush administration officials and captains of finance, congressional officials said, reports the Politico:House Democrats plan to aggressively look at the administrations role in the meltdown over the weekend and to explore further regulation and government structures that would be taken up under the new president. Republican aides accused Democrats of trying to shift blame with a series of show trials, but acknowledged that key officials will wind up cooperating. This  over Barack Obama dismissal of John McCains call for a high-level commission to study the economic crisis as passing the buck: Senator Obama and Majority Leader Pelosi seem out-of-sync. Are Congressional hearings good and high-level commission hearings bad? Or could it be that Democratic investigations are good and Republican studies are bad? And based on Barack Obamas statement, is Speaker Pelosi passing the buck by holding hearings  or will Obama be passing the buck if he supports Pelosis hearings? The Washington Posts : A decade ago, Sen. John McCain embraced legislation to broadly deregulate the banking and insurance industries, helping to sweep aside a thicket of rules established over decades in favor of a less restricted financial marketplace that proponents said would result in greater economic growth.Now, as the Bush administration scrambles to prevent the collapse of the American International Group (AIG), the nations largest insurance company, and stabilize a tumultuous Wall Street, the Republican presidential nominee is scrambling to recast himself as a champion of regulation to end reckless conduct, corruption and unbridled greed on Wall Street. Government has a clear responsibility to act in defense of the public interest, and thats exactly what I intend to do, a fiery McCain said at a rally in Tampa yesterday. In my administration, were going to hold people on Wall Street responsible. And were going to enact and enforce reforms to make sure that these outrages never happen in the first place. A bit late for that, senator?
