THERE was a degree of inevitability about the cuts announced by Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley " together with the prospect of potentially hundreds of job losses at its head office in this region. B&amp;amp;B is paying a heavy price for its previous mismanagement. It became over-dependent on the buy-to-let market and its rights issue earlier this year was another failure. The consequence is that B&amp;amp;B's reputation, built up following decades of sound banking, has become so tarnished that newly-installed chief executive Richard Pym had no alternative other than to announce the first phase of what will be a significant reduction in the firm's manpower. The effects on the West Yorkshire economy will be significant, even more so considering the scale of the forthcoming job losses in Halifax following the acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB. Politicians will not be able to avoid the consequences. But, as the Tories discovered in Calderdale yesterday, there is very little they can do to halt the spiral of job losses now being felt across the banking sector. If the temporary cessation of short-selling, the recent curse of the City, was supposed to halt traders undermining certain institutions, it has not worked with B&amp;amp;B. Its share price fell 15 per cent following the job loss announcement. In normal times, Mr Pym's measures might have been expected to receive a positive response, but there is nothing predictable about this crisis. The hundreds of billions that have been poured into the money markets have failed to halt the tide of despondency spreading throughout the economy. Yet, while there is alarm at the job losses, there is also growing anger that the people who will profit from this crisis will be those bankers whose recklessness has proved so catastrophic. It is understandable, therefore, that Congress should be asking so many questions over the $700bn bailout of banks advocated by George W Bush. The consequences of the final decision will have far-reaching implications, particularly for the UK economy. It explains Gordon Brown's decision to meet President Bush today for emergency talks. Yet their intervention can only help in the short-term. To achieve stability in the longer term, there needs to be a return to the concept of sound and responsible banking. B&amp;amp;B set out on that journey yesterday. It can only be hoped that it is not too little, too late " despite the pain that will be involved.
