 Major U.S. stocks slumped Wednesday as an emergency loan to one of the world's biggest companies stoked fears about the health of financial markets.The Dow Jones industrials tumbled more than 300 points, or about 3 percent. The Nasdaq and the S&amp;amp;P were recording similar percentage falls.The selloff comes in the wake of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch's sale to Bank of America, and the U.S. government announcing an $85 billion plan to bail out insurance giant American International Group (AIG). The fallout from the housing and credit market collapse 'ripples through the entire financial industry and is stretching to other industries,' Kelli Hill, Portfolio Manager at Ashfield Capital Partners told CNNMoney. 'The question everyone is asking is 'what's going to fix this?'' John Schloegel, vice president of investment strategies at Capital Cities Asset Management in Texas told Reuters.com: 'Every investor is now questioning each and every investment they have anywhere on the planet. 'It's leading them to sell anything that has any type of risk -- to sell first. It's an unusual situation we are in right now.'  British bank Barclays said it had reached a deal Wednesday to purchase key units of U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers for $1.75 billion, as turbulent global markets continued to worry investors. The deal came just two days after Barclays walked away from talks to buy the beleaguered financial institution in its entirety.Barclays will acquire Lehman's North American investment banking and capital markets businesses for $250 million in cash.Barclays will also purchase Lehman's New York headquarters and two data centers in New Jersey at their current market value estimated at $1.5 billion, a company statement said.  Lehman Brother Holdings -- mired in bad mortgage-related investments -- failed to secure a government loan or buyout deals with Barclays and Bank of America over the weekend and subsequently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Monday.The deal must still be approved by the bankruptcy court.Approximately 10,000 Lehman employees work for the fixed income and equity sales, trading and research and investment banking businesses that Barclays is set to acquire, Barclays said.The British bank looks forward to 'working together to deliver the combination's full potential.' its statement said. A possible signal the jobs could be saved from the chopping block.New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said that Lehman's CEO Dick Fuld told him Barclays had agreed to buy the key Lehman units intact and added that the bulk of Lehman's New York City-based employees will be retained.  The collapse of the fourth largest investment bank in the U.S. contributed to the worst day on Wall Street for seven years Monday, which in turn hit stocks across Asia and Europe.Major European markets in Britain, Germany and France all closed Wednesday between 1.5 and 2 percent down.Asian markets also largely closed down but Japan's Nikkei bucked the trend closing 1.2 percent higher.They had experienced a slight recovery earlier in the day after the AIG rescue plan was announced. On Tuesday, the Nikkei index sank nearly 5 percent to its lowest close in more than three years.The U.S. Federal Reserve's move to help AIG -- a huge U.S. insurer reeling from billions of dollars in souring mortgage debt -- initially appeared to help allay fears of further financial turmoil.The Fed said Tuesday it was acting after determining that a disorderly failure of the company, whose financial dealings stretch around the world, could hurt the already delicate markets and the economy.  this on: Mixx 
