As the economy teeters on the edge of what many analysts have called a potential catastrophe, the presidential candidates are aggressively promoting their proposed solutions -- and tearing down their opponents.Republican Sen. John McCain said Friday in Green Bay, Wis., that the Federal Reserve needs to stop bailing out failed financial institutions.Addressing a business group in Wisconsin, the Republican presidential hopeful said the Fed should get back to what he called 'its core business of responsibly managing our money supply and inflation.'  Democratic Sen. Barack Obama, meanwhile, said he backs giving 'broad authority' to the Treasury Department to deal with the burgeoning credit crisis, but said he's not spelling out details of his own plans to avoid roiling the markets.Obama said at a Florida news conference that given the gravity of the situation, he will refrain for now from presenting a more detailed blueprint. He said any recovery plan should be guided by not rewarding reckless business leaders.Some of the most respected names in the business world were pitching in Friday, including billionaire investor Warren Buffett, former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, former Treasury secretaries Robert Rubin, Lawrence Summers and Paul O'Neill, and Laura Tyson, former head of the Council of Economic Advisers under former President Bill Clinton.The Fed engineered an $85 billion takeover of insurance giant AIG this week, one of a series of failures of major financial companies that have rocked Wall Street. The government seized control of housing giants Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae earlier this month.McCain, who has cast himself over the years as a proponent of deregulation, is offering a revamped image of a leader ready to use the federal government to intervene in the marketplace. He reiterated his recent calls to fire Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Chris Cox, saying there needed to be greater accountability in Washington.He also sought to tie his Democratic rival to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the failed federally-backed mortgage institutions recently taken over by the government.McCain noted Fannie Mae's former CEO, Jim Johnson, once headed Obama's vice presidential search committee and that the Illinois senator had received large campaign contributions from both agencies.'Maybe just this once he could spare us the lectures, and admit to his own poor judgment in contributing to these problems,' McCain said of Obama, without specifying Obama's alleged role.McCain said as president he would create a Mortgage and Financial Institutions Trust to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. He said he would propose and sign into law changes to prevent financial firms from concealing 'bad practices.'The anxious focus on the economy is seen by many as an advantage for Obama because McCain-ally President George W. Bush has set the nation's economic priorities for the last eight years with tax cuts, global trade deals and a veto-pen threat over Democratic initiatives. On the campaign trail, Obama relentlessly tries to tie McCain with the unpopular Bush. Explore More: Find out more about Business, Consumer Credit and Debt, Home Financing and Personal Finance, or try these articles: September 16, 2008: Economic Meltdown No. 1 Topic For Presidential Candidates September 9, 2008: Budget Deficit Figures Worse Than Expected September 8, 2008: Officials Announce Takeover Of Mortgage Giants June 5, 2008: Luxurious Homes Contradict Campaign Messages May 6, 2008: Gen Y Needs To Assert Fiscal Activism Distributed by Internet Broadcasting Systems, Inc. The Associated Press contributed to this report. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
