ET In a testament to the political riskEven as they sought to blame their opponents policies for the downturn, the presidential and vice presidential candidates The fact that we have reached a point where the Federal Reserve While we do not know all the details of this arrangement, Obama continued, the Fed must ensure that the plan protects the families that count on insurance. Under the terms of the Federal Reserves plan, AIG will receive a two-year, $85 billion loan in exchange for an 80 percent stake in the company. If Obamas response sounded hesitant, his running mateDuring a speech in Maumee, Ohio, Wednesday morning, Biden never mentioned the AIG plan directly but issued a message to Wall Street executivesIt was an impassioned, crowd-pleasing argument for corporate transparencyAsked by a reporter at a Wednesday afternoon event whether he supports the AIG bailout, Biden sidestepped the issue. The truth is I dont know what the bailout is yet. And it looks like theyre lending em a little bit of money. I dont know what theyve done. I havent had a brief on it. I havent spoken to the Secretary of the TreasuryBoth Republicans, John McCain The shot that has been called by the Feds its understandable but very, very disappointing that taxpayers are called upon for another bank rescue, Palin said at a campaign stop in Cleveland. I didnt want to do that. And I dont think anybody I know wanted to do that, McCain said of the bailout in an interview with Good Morning America. But there are literally millions of people whose retirement, whose investment, whose insurance were at risk here. McCain finessed that comment later, putting out a statement further emphasizing the need to focus on AIG policyholders and saying: We must not bail out the management and speculators who created this mess. Like Biden, McCain had previously expressed opposition to the notion of rescuing AIG, declaring Tuesday: We cannot have the taxpayers bail out AIG or anybody else. But faced with a deepening crisis in the financial markets, no candidate on either presidential ticket has maintained an unbending position against government intervention. At the same time, neither campaign was eager to stake out an unambiguous position on the AIG rescue, a reflection of the precarious politics of federal bailouts.For both McCain and Obama, the political risksDuring the 1980 presidential campaign, Ronald ReaganReagan biographer Lou CannonMore recently, in 1992, as Congress debated a large-scale bailout of savings and loan institutions, then-Arkansas Gov. Bill ClintonBut the then-Democratic nominee carefully hedged his language on bailout proposals. In the third general-election debate, Clinton gingerly suggested: Insofar as it is humanly possible, the banking industry itself should pay for the cost of any bank failuresTo the frustration of their opponents, neither Reagan nor Clinton suffered for their equivocations. In voters minds, the struggling economy proved reason enough to throw out the incumbent. So far this week, the prominence of economic issues on the campaign trail has appeared to work to the benefit of Obama and Biden. Their tracking poll numbers have ticked up on Wednesday Gallup showed Obama with his first lead since the Republican convention as the two Democrats have aggressively attacked McCains support for economic policies they say helped precipitate the current economic turbulence. I certainly dont fault Sen. McCain Obama also harkened back to the savings and loan crisisMcCain, torn between his partys traditional hesitance to intervene in markets and the political imperative of appearing sensitive to stockholders and pensioners, has castigated American financial institutions We are going to fight the greed and irresponsibility on Wall StreetSince the beginning of the week, though, McCains campaign has suffered from a number of missteps, beginning with McCains comment that the fundamentals of our economy are strong, that have tripped up GOP ticket. But his campaign stumbled again Tuesday when adviser Douglas Holtz-Eakin defended McCains economic expertise by implying the senator had helped invent the BlackBerry, and when McCain supporter Carly FiorinaAs a result, the Republican ticket has struggled to find its focus at a moment when the race has called for clear messaging on the economy. Staff writers Victoria McGrane, Jonathan Martin
