We knew Sen. John McCain was going to be in a tough spot this morning when it came to talking about the AIG bailout.When the feds declined to bailout Lehman Brothers earlier in the week, the Republican presidential nominee said he welcomed that news, that he was against taxpayer money being used to save the hides of Wall Street types who had turned the financial markets into 'casinos.'Then the Bush Administration and the Federal Reserve had to go and pull the rug out from under him with an $85 billion bridge loan to AIG. Not making the loan, federal officials have said, would have potentially had a catastrophic effect on real people. So they had to act.This put McCain in an uneasy place. Stick to your principles and oppose the AIG bailout and you're sure to be accused again by Sen. Barack Obama of being out of touch on the economy and uncaring about the people on Main Street who stood to get hurt, even according to Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson.But fully embrace the AIG bailout and you appear to be contradicting your words of just days before.In Gustavus, Ohio this morning where he was campaigning, McCain appeared on 'Good Morning America.' He seemed to be trying to walk a tightrope with an 'on-the-one-hand, on-the-other-hand' kind of comment.MS. ROBERTS: Just so happens. I know.You love coming to this part of the country. Hard-working people. They wake up and they hear the news that the federal government is going to bail out the insurance giant AIG by the tune of $85 billion. Do you agree with that?SEN. MCCAIN: Well, I agree with you these are hard-working Americans. Last night I had dinner with a man who's a teacher. His wife -- his wife is a teacher; he's a locksmith. Another family, the mother is a nurse. They're the fundamentals of America. They're still strong.But they've been betrayed by the top of our economy, by the greedy Wall Street excesses that sometimes I think may even be corruption. And they have -- they have had their lives harmed because of the greed and excess.We've got to fix it. We've got to say that it'll never happen again. As president, I will make sure that it never happens again..Now, on the bailout itself, I didn't want to do that and I don't think anybody I know wanted to do that. But there were literally millions of people whose retirement, whose investments, whose insurance were at risk here, and they were going to have their lives destroyed because of the greed and excess and corruption.When I say corruption, many of these executives, these Wall Street CEOs, said everything's fine. As you know, up until a short time ago, everything's fine. Not to worry.Meanwhile, Congress, the regulators, paid no attention whatsoever to it. We -- we have an alphabet soup of regulatory agencies; all of them were asleep at the switch. And the Congress, particularly as far as Fannie and Freddie are concerned, went right along with it and the special interests and the lobbyists took over
