 By WILL ASTOR  AA report issued Tuesday by the Albany-based Citizen Action of New York links insurance industry campaign contributions to steep rises in premiums. The report names Assembly Insurance Committee chairman Joseph Morelle, D-Irondequoit, as one of the top 10 beneficiaries of insurance-industry campaign cash and the only local lawmaker named, but largely focuses on money directed to Republican candidates. Insurance industry sources, including individual health plans and trade associations, contributed a total of $899,175 to state Legislators over a four-year period stretching from 2003 to 2007 with a majority of those dollars"$618,152 or 69 percent"going to Senate Republicans, the report states. New York Health Plan Association president Paul Macielak in a statement called the report 'wildly inaccurate.' More than $300,000 of the contributions cited by Citizens Action as coming from the health insurance industry came from companies that are not health insurers, Macielak said. The firms wrongly cited as health insurance industry contributors--AIA, Citigroup and AIG--are insurance companies, but not health insurance carriers. The data in this report is so flawed it calls into question everything else in it. The whole thing should be dismissed outright, Macielak said. State lawmakers largely deregulated New York health insurance in the 1990s, passing a so-called file and use rule, which virtually eliminated the Department of Insurances ability to weigh in on premium hikes. Campaign contributions helped influence legislators to resist Insurance Department attempts to roll back such deregulation, the report contends. The top contributor named in the report is Wellcare Inc., a provider of managed care services for state-sponsored plans such as Child Health Plus targeting the working poor. It gave $201,000. Also on the list are Aetna Inc. and MVP Health Care. Aetna, which contributed some $95,000 to place fifth among the top 10 campaign donors, administers the University of Rochesters self-funded plan. MVP, the Schenectady-based parent of Preferred Care, placed 10th on the Citizens Action list with $17,785 in contributions. Excellus Inc., this areas dominant health insurance carrier and the states biggest non-profit health insurer, is cited for anti-regulation lobbying efforts and a court challenge to the Insurance Department but is not named as a major campaign contributor. Morelles $23,350 in insurance industry campaign contributions placed him at seventh on the groups list of recipients and as one of three Democrats in the top 10. Topping the list of campaign cash recipients was Sen. James Seward, R-Milford, with $60,700 in donations. Next were Sen. Kemp Hannon, R-Levittown, with donations of $58,750 and former Senate Majority Leader Joseph Bruno, R-Rensselaer, with $55,500. (c) 2008 Rochester Business Journal. Obtain permission to re. 
