Two days after withdrawing from talks to buy Lehman Brothers, British bank Barclays has agreed to buy the bulk of the businesses of the collapsed bank. Lehman Brothers sought bankruptcy protection on Monday. On Wednesday the Board of Barclays, in a statement, said it had agreed, subject to US Court and relevant regulatory approvals, to acquire Lehman Brothers North American investment banking and capital markets operations and supporting infrastructure. Barclays will acquire trading assets with a current estimated value of $72 billion and trading liabilities with a current estimated value of $68 billion, for a cash consideration of $250 million. Barclays will also acquire the New York headquarters of Lehman Brothers as well as its two data centres at close to their current market value, which is believed to be around $1.5 billion. Some Barclays shareholders have expressed support for the transaction by pledging $1 billion in additional equity. This transaction delivers the strategic benefits of a combination with Lehman Brothers core franchise, whilst meeting Barclays strict financial criteria, and strengthening our capital ratios, John Varley, Barclays Group Chief Executive said. This is a once in a lifetime opportunity for Barclays. We will now have the best team and most productive culture across the worlds major financial markets, backed by the resources of an integrated universal bank. We welcome the opportunity to add Lehmans people and capabilities to the Barclays team, Robert E Diamond Jr, Barclays President, said. Herbert H McDade III, Lehman Brothers Chief Operating Officer, said, 'Lehman Brothers strength has always been our client franchise. With this transaction, we have the opportunity to continue the growth and development of our US investment banking and capital market franchises with one of the leading financial institutions in the world. Together with Barclays, these businesses will be a part of a global financial services powerhouse delivering a comprehensive suite of products and services to our clients.' The Lehman Brothers operations to be acquired in the transaction have approximately 10,000 employees. The deal is subject to a number of conditions including the approval of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Lehman Brothers is filing an emergency motion with the Bankruptcy Court to seek a hearing to obtain approval for the Acquisition. The Acquisition is also subject to certain usual conditions including receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and US antitrust clearances. The agreement for the Acquisition may be terminated if it is not completed by next Wednesday.
