WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve held U.S. interest rates steady on Tuesday and showed little inclination to lower them soon, spurning calls for cuts from financial markets roiled by the bankruptcy of investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . The central bank's unanimous decision left benchmark overnight rates at 2 percent, a level reached in April.Canada maintains growth outlook despite turmoilOTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty sees no need to lower his forecast for the country's economic growth, despite a deepening global financial crisis and his expectation of a further slide in U.S. growth. Flaherty said in an interview with Reuters he was open to the idea of concerted action among policy makers in the world's most developed economies to manage the fallout from the failure of some of Wall Street's biggest firms.AIG shrs plunge as crisis mounts, takeover mulledNEW YORK (Reuters) - American International Group Inc shares sank 48 percent on a report that regulators might take control of the giant insurer, though a U.S. government source said federal agencies do not have legal authority to put AIG into a conservatorship. Bloomberg News reported the government was mulling a conservatorship, citing two people briefed on the negotiations. AIG has been battered by losses on mortgages in its securities portfolio.Manulife seen eyeing AIG assets in U.S. upheavalTORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian life insurance company Manulife Financial Corp could be well placed to pick off some business lines from American International Group if the troubled U.S. insurer has to sell them. Analysts say Manulife, the biggest life insurer in North America by market value, would at least consider acquiring AIG's U.S. variable annuity business, and Manulife executives have said they would like to enter the Japanese and Chinese wealth-management markets.AIG rescue hopes, Morgan Stanley earnings, ease marketsNEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Growing expectations of a U.S. government-financed rescue of insurer AIG and the sale of Lehman Brothers' investment banking unit provided hope on Tuesday that worldwide financial tremors may be near an end. The developments helped ease disappointment over a U.S. Federal Reserve decision to keep interest rates unchanged as well as weaker-than-expected revenues at Goldman Sachs Group Inc , the larger of the two surviving major U.S. investment banks.Teck, Fording confident in takeover proceedingTORONTO (Reuters) - Teck Cominco moved to quell concerns about its $13.7 billion takeover of Fording Canadian Coal Trust on Tuesday, saying it believed financing for the deal was solid and that it had options if one of its lenders withdrew. 'We are working hard to complete the financing by September 30, and we look forward to closing the deal,' Teck Chief Executive Don Lindsay said on a webcast to address investors who have grown jittery about the $9.8 billion Teck is borrowing to finance the deal.St Lawrence Seaway says union has strike mandateOTTAWA (Reuters) - The company that runs the St Lawrence Seaway, the giant waterway that links the Great Lakes with the Atlantic Ocean, said on Tuesday its 445 unionized workers had voted in favor of giving their union a strike mandate but added it hoped to avoid a stoppage. The St. Lawrence Seaway Management Corp said it 'continues to be confident' it can reach a new collective agreement with the Canadian Auto Workers union when talks start up again on October 6.Toronto stocks end lower, rebound from early plungeTORONTO (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index rebounded late Tuesday to end down slightly, after sliding to its lowest level in almost two years, as investors fretted over the fate of U.S. insurer American International Group and the price of oil fell to a seven-month low. In a volatile session that threatened to build on Monday's 4 percent plunge, the S&amp;amp;P/TSX composite index briefly dove into bear market territory, before staging a rebound on the back of strengthening resources.Canada dollar slips on soft commodities, bonds fallTORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar fell against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday due to soft commodity prices, but managed to make up some ground late in the session as markets cheered a report of a possible bailout for troubled insurer American International Group . Canadian bond prices tumbled lower along with the larger U.S. market after the U.S. Federal Reserve held interest rates steady, and the AIG report surfaced.Viterra office workers ratify new contractVANCOUVER, British Columbia (Reuters) - Unionized workers at the head office of Canadian grain company Viterra Inc ratified a new contract on Tuesday, ending an 11-week strike. About 200 workers who provide support services at the company's headquarters in Regina, Saskatchewan, will return to their jobs on Monday, Viterra said. Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
