Fed rescues AIG, Barclays buys Lehman U.S. unitHONG KONG (Reuters) - U.S. authorities engineered an $85 billion rescue of insurance giant American International Group Inc , staving off bankruptcy and bringing a measure of calm to shell-shocked global markets. The bailout, made amid a cataclysmic week for the financial sector, marks a reversal of Washington's vow not to step in and calls for the U.S. Federal Reserve to lend up to $85 billion to AIG for two years in exchange for a 79.9 percent equity stake.Asia greases money markets, AIG deal fails to sootheSINGAPORE/TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan, Australia and India pumped $33 billion into money markets on Wednesday as a U.S. government rescue of insurer AIG failed to soothe frayed nerves and ease a funding squeeze triggered by the crisis engulfing Wall Street. Across Asia, which has been largely shielded from the worst of the credit crisis, central banks were bracing for more market turmoil.Fed holds rates steady, spurning calls for cutsWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve held U.S. interest rates steady on Tuesday and showed little inclination to lower them soon, spurning calls for cuts from financial markets roiled by the bankruptcy of investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . The central bank's unanimous decision left benchmark overnight rates at 2 percent, a level reached in April.Canada maintains growth outlook despite turmoilOTTAWA (Reuters) - Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty sees no need to lower his forecast for the country's economic growth, despite a deepening global financial crisis and his expectation of a further slide in U.S. growth. Flaherty said in an interview with Reuters he was open to the idea of concerted action among policy makers in the world's most developed economies to manage the fallout from the failure of some of Wall Street's biggest firms.Goldman and Morgan Stanley profits fall amid slumpNEW YORK (Reuters) - The two largest U.S. investment banks, Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Morgan Stanley , reported lower quarterly profits, but beat expectations on Tuesday even as the worst market slump in decades rattled Wall Street. Goldman Sachs, the largest securities firm, said third quarter earnings fell 70 percent on weaker-than-expected revenues, knocking its shares to nearly three-year lows.Manulife seen eyeing AIG assets in U.S. upheavalTORONTO (Reuters) - Canadian life insurance company Manulife Financial Corp could be well placed to pick off some business lines from American International Group if the troubled U.S. insurer has to sell them. Analysts say Manulife, the biggest life insurer in North America by market value, would at least consider acquiring AIG's U.S. variable annuity business, and Manulife executives have said they would like to enter the Japanese and Chinese wealth-management markets.Teck, Fording confident in takeover proceedingTORONTO (Reuters) - Teck Cominco moved to quell concerns about its $13.7 billion takeover of Fording Canadian Coal Trust on Tuesday, saying it believed financing for the deal was solid and that it had options if one of its lenders withdrew. 'We are working hard to complete the financing by September 30, and we look forward to closing the deal,' Teck Chief Executive Don Lindsay said on a webcast to address investors who have grown jittery about the $9.8 billion Teck is borrowing to finance the deal.St Lawrence Seaway says union has strike mandateOTTAWA (Reuters) - The company that runs the St Lawrence Seaway, the giant waterway that links the Great Lakes with the Atlantic Ocean, said on Tuesday its 445 unionized workers had voted in favor of giving their union a strike mandate but added it hoped to avoid a stoppage. The St. Lawrence Seaway Management Corp said it 'continues to be confident' it can reach a new collective agreement with the Canadian Auto Workers union when talks start up again on October 6.Toronto stocks end lower, rebound from early plungeTORONTO (Reuters) - The Toronto Stock Exchange's main index rebounded late Tuesday to end down slightly, after sliding to its lowest level in almost two years, as investors fretted over the fate of U.S. insurer American International Group and the price of oil fell to a seven-month low. In a volatile session that threatened to build on Monday's 4 percent plunge, the S&amp;amp;P/TSX composite index briefly dove into bear market territory, before staging a rebound on the back of strengthening resources.Canada dollar slips on soft commodities, bonds fallTORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar fell against the U.S. dollar on Tuesday due to soft commodity prices, but managed to make up some ground late in the session as markets cheered a report of a possible bailout for troubled insurer American International Group . Canadian bond prices tumbled lower along with the larger U.S. market after the U.S. Federal Reserve held interest rates steady, and the AIG report surfaced. Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
