(RTTNews) - Financial stocks took a tumble in the first half of Wednesday's trading, amid continued worries that the recent turmoil has not claimed its last victim.The general sell off followed the government bailout of insurance giant AIG (AIG). Also, Morgan Stanley (MS:  News ), one of the few remaining independent investment banks, announced a decline in third-quarter earnings after the close on Tuesday.The report followed a tumultuous few days for Wall Street firms, including the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the hurried sale of Merrill Lynch to Bank of America early in the week. More recently, American International Group was saved from collapse by an $85 billion loan from the Federal Reserve.Morgan Stanley said that its third-quarter earnings fell from last year, hurt by lower revenue from investment banking and fixed-income trading. However, the company's quarterly earnings breezed past Wall Street expectations.This came on the heels of a report from Goldman Sachs (GS), which reported a 70% drop in quarterly profits before Tuesday's open. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are the only two remaining big investment banks on Wall Street, following the departure of Lehman and Merrill as viable, independent companies.Early Wednesday, Morgan Stanley dropped $9.91 to $18.78 and reached its lowest level in nearly 10 years. Goldman Sachs fell $32.71 to $100.30 a share by the middle of the day.Other stocks also saw drops of at least 20 percent. Washington Mutual (WM) plunged after S&amp;amp;P downwardly revised the company's credit rating. Shares of that stock are down 11 cents to $2.21. A year ago, shares traded higher than $35.American International Group (AIG) fell another $1.38 to $2.36 amid news of the government bailoutLehman Brothers (LEH) plunged another 13 cents to reach just 17 cents a share. The company has agreed to sell its North American investment banking and capital markets operations, as well as some physical assets, to Barclays for $1.75 billion.
