REFORMS to the structure of executive salaries will work best by improving disclosure to shareholders rather than regulation, a business advisory group says. Ernst &amp; Young human capital partner Bruno Cecchini says providing more information is the answer rather than forcing companies to give shareholders a binding vote on remuneration reports.   He said offering details such as what sort of performance targets were met for bonuses to paid, even if only on a retrospective basis, would go a long way to opening up an exchange of views between the company and its shareholders. ''If you had appropriate disclosure and more transparent disclosure, then the market will be better informed and will be able to influence directors around executive pay,'' Mr Cecchini said on Friday. ''You should be encouraging dialogue between shareholders and the directors.''   Mr Cecchini said calls for a binding vote on a company's remuneration report as a way to give shareholders a greater say were unfounded. He said there were ''no clear examples of where it has actually added a lot of value''. ''If you go down a binding vote, particularly on something as broad as a remuneration report ... you're not actually telling them what it is that you don't like,'' Mr Cecchini said.   In an effort to curb exorbitant payouts to outgoing company executives, the federal government has said it would introduce legislation requiring payments exceeding one year's base pay to have shareholder approval.   Under current laws, company directors can receive payouts seven times their total annual remuneration upon the termination of their contract.   The Productivity Commission is to hold an inquiry into the broader issue of executive remuneration, with its report expected to be finished by the end of the year.   Mr Cecchini said any regulation of termination payouts needed to distinguish between legally entitled payments for past performance, such as accrued leave and shares held in escrow, and so-called ex-gratia payments.   He said the determination to rein in exorbitant termination payments posed certain risks. ''We've just got to be careful about creating too much complexity when we are trying to deal with the minority,'' Mr Cecchini said. ''The danger is that to capture the minority in the market place ... has a consequence of lifting fixed remuneration in the market place.''   The issue of excessive salaries has been highlighted in recent weeks in Australia and overseas.   Executives at troubled insurance giant American International Group (AIG) were paid about $US165 million ($A231.3 million) in bonuses despite the company being near collapse and propped up by a $US180 billion ($A252.33 billion) US government bailout.   News of the bonus payments sparked an angry response from US lawmakers.   Legislation was rushed through both houses of Congress, levying a 90 per cent tax on individuals who received a bonus from a company receiving government bailout money.   In Australia, there was widespread community anger when Pacific Brands announced the sacking of 1,850 staff in February, followed by revelations of pay rises to company directors.  
