This is definitely going to seem like an odd blog but it is something that affects me directly and affects everyone really. People are worrying so much about banks and the financial industry as a whole and especially after today that is a very reasonable concern. Today U.S. Bank announced it is buying out the leases for in-store Nevada State Banks and I'm sure that once that happens NSB won't survive much longer. Bank of America bought out Merrill Lynch. Lehman Banks filed a $639 Billion bankruptcy, the largest in history. AIG is struggling and having to borrow money from itself in order to stay afloat.  Which begs the question, what more is going to happen? I have read reports that some of the largest banks in the country will go under within the year and I just have a hard time believing that. But really, anything can happen. Even Bank of America who holds the most deposit accounts in the country isn't safe. They weren't exactly perfect with their lending practices either. U.S. Bank is doing well and is one of the leading banks right now in terms of losses but you never know. I know that we are one of the only banks not only continually profiting but we are still hiring at a consistent pace while so many other places have a hiring freeze or just can't afford it.  What an interesting day though.&amp;nbsp;It's always sad when you can say that the phrase "Financial crisis" is an understatement. I also heard something&amp;nbsp;today&amp;nbsp;that I wanted to share because it was just so insanely true. On Bill O'Reilly they were talking about how the Obama campaign was taking shots at McCain based&amp;nbsp;on&amp;nbsp;his age. O'Reilly made a good point. He said that by doing that they are going to only anger senior citizens and&amp;nbsp;that is a bad move seeing as they make&amp;nbsp;up a large portion of the&amp;nbsp;voting population. What was also funny is&amp;nbsp;how they&amp;nbsp;made comments about McCain not being able to use a computer&amp;nbsp;as well as&amp;nbsp;some&amp;nbsp;but his reasoning is due to injuries he&amp;nbsp;acquired as a POW. Kinda backfired a bit I think. And I saw the&amp;nbsp;Sarah Palin skit on SNL and how freaking funny. Tina Fey resembles her so much its ridiculous. I heard Sarah Palin thought it was funny&amp;nbsp;because she actually dressed as Tina Fey for Halloween last year.  Alright well thats my&amp;nbsp;input on the craziness today.&amp;nbsp;
