Online Bill Pay: Save Time, Pay OnlineBanking online might not sound like the coolest invention of the 21st century (I know, I know, DVR the MP3 player  I know.), but when it comes to really making my life easier, nothing beats it.Think about it  no more checks to order, no more envelopes to stuff and no more stamps to buy. Plus, with online Bill Pay (and the right alerts), I receive bills online and get notified when theyre due. With all these conveniences built into Online Banking, Im saving hours  and plenty of wear and tear on my car  every month. If youre not already on the online bill pay/online statement/electronic funds transfer bandwagon, get on board. Online Bill Pay: How It Works Now  I cant tell you how every bank works its online bill payment service, but Ive been using Online Banking at Bank of America, including their online bill payment services  for years and I can certainly give you a taste of what its like. Here goes:Sign up. All you have to do is spend a couple of seconds at your banks Web site and soon youll be ready to go.Check account balances and account activity. Just log into Online Banking with your online ID and password and verify your SiteKeyTM and check your online statement to find out whats cleared, what charges have been made and what your balance is. You can even use the site to view up to18 months worth of online statements.Online Bill Pay and Electronic Funds Transfer. Spend just a few minutes to sign up to receive your bills online. Then, when the bills are due, youll receive alerts to your e-mailbox or mobile device. When youre ready to make the payment, just log in, select the bill to pay and the amount youd like to pay (or use electronic funds transfer to move money between accounts to cover the bills. As early as the next business your bills will be covered (if thats the timing you chose).Once youre all signed up, even if youre paying tons of bills, you should be able to finish your business in about 5 minutes (but Im just gauging this from personal experience). Trust me  its easy. (Of course, not all online banks offer all these services online  and not all these services may be available in every state, so youll have to do some detective work.) Security: Online Statements &amp; Electronic Funds TransferFor you skittish types, I know banking online seems fantastic, but a little frightening. Well, it is fantastic  but theres nothing frightening about it. Most banks have security measure after security measure to protect your private information. And at Bank of America (which is the only bank I can really speak to), theyve got a world-class security service called SiteKeyTM that works as another layer of security to help keep your personal information secure and protected. SiteKeyTM is an Online Banking security measure that includes an image, image title and three challenge questions that only you will know the answers. So after you sign up for Online Banking, its important that ONLY you know how to log in to your account. In addition to SiteKeyTM, Bank of America also has several other measures that authenticates users, encrypts information and verifies data integrity to help keep your information secure. Last, but certainly not least, if someone does manage to get past all the security hoops and into your account, and they initiate unauthorized activity, such as electronic funds transfer or an online bill payment to a bogus company, Bank of America has the Online Banking Guarantee  which means that youll have $0 liability for unauthorized activity, providing you notify us promptly2. (But youll have to catch it and report it within 60 days of its first appearance on your online statement to stop further fraud from occurring.) You see  its all very simple and so safe. So hop on board and make your life a whole lot easier.By: Brit HallArticle Directory: http://www.articledashboard.com
