So Friday I started research on local banks to see where my accounts would be going.  My deciding criteria are: Low or no fee accountsI mean come on, Im depositing my money with you and youre loaning it out.  Why the hell should I pay to loan you my money? Good online banking interfaceI do most of my banking with automated transactions online.  I need a robust, simple to use interface and secure servers that are not constantly overloaded or down for maintenance. Local branch where I can depositMy employer doesnt offer direct deposit, so I need to be able to visit the bank, check in hand, and deposit it on Friday afternoon so that its not sitting in an ATM until Monday morning when its picked up and taken to process on Tuesday, so that my deposit turns up sometime on Wednesday.   Good privacy polityI dont want my info shared with other business partners, I dont want it leased, sold, bartered, traded, loaned or anything else.  Ive dealt with identity and account theft twice already and Im serious about not dealing with it a third time.I dont consider ATMs a factor since I always have access to cash via debit card purchases at supermarkets.  High interest rates on savings or checking accounts arent a factor as I get great rates through my credit union, so larger balances are maintained there.  I visited Wells Fargo and discovered that they are indeed, fee central.  Unless I maintain a sky-high minimum balance, which they dont give good rates on, Im gonna pay through the nose to bank with them.  Setting up overdraft protection to my savings costs exorbitant fees too. My horrible experience with Bank of America kept me out of their offices.  I know how they do business and Im never going back.The local credit union was closed.  Apparently they are one of the few financial institutions that still operate on bankers hours of 10:30 am to 3 pm.  No clue what else they offer other than extremely limited hours of access.Wachovia was very formal with its whole staff dressed in suits.    I sat with an account advisor, had a look at their online banking interface, went over their account plans, checked out their privacy policy and even enjoyed scaring the poor account rep by showing him the new privacy policy at WaMu since they got bought out by JP Morgan Chase.  Frankly, they looked like the best one around.And today I see they were just bought out by CitiGroup, another mega-financial with a ugly history that Im not comfortable doing business with.Crap.
