1. I worked from 10am to 8:30pm.2. I will no longer be sleeping with ex boyfriends.3. brandon got back from his 10-day meditation retreat. I am intrigued and we have plans to work out at the ymca and dishttp://www.blogger.com/img/gl.link.gifcuss his experiences. so far, i'm scared and into it.4. david foster wallace died on friday. i'm listening to him on public radio right now. he wrote a supposedly fun thing i'll never do again, a collection of essays that i read and found immensely comforting when I first moved to olympia.5. club mate. so delicious.6. the american financial crisis. I will be closing my bank of america account this thursday. 7. KUOW, the local AM public radio station. I can only listen to AM stations on my radio, and I'm glad I've found this. Looking forward to listening to This American Life on saturdays at 11am.8. I need to call carli about TCTV.9. I'm reading a book by A.J. Liebling, called Back Where I Came From. it's a love letter to new york city at the turn of the century. it's so beautifully written. I have a soft spot for love-letter-to-new-york books, and songs:10. all i want for my birthday is thousands of antique teacups and maybe some other stuff. I'm thinking of going on that meditation retreat for my birthday.11. back to the land hippy culture: don't know what to think about it. don't know what to think about anything really, have decided that loosely formed positive response beats out anything negative. god, i'm so tired. i cant believe that i'm staying up late to listen to public radio. i'm glad that i am, as i've decided to give up on feeling guilty or bad for the things i feel or enjoy doing. also, have decided to simply not stand for being judged for the things i feel or enjoy doing. i don't want to be bothered if it's nerdy or weird or doesn't fit into narrow view of independence if i like reading or geeking out about indie rock or if i get upset about failed relationships. i would like to mourn and celebrate things as i see best without feeling judged or critiqued for my outlook. easier said then done. too tired to type, goodnight.
