      There is a great difference between worry and concern. A worried person sees a problem, and a concerned person solves a problem.--Harold StephensWow, what a day.  Let's see, what happened?B of A is buying Merrill Lynch.  Bad idea.Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.The Dow Jones dropped over 500 points.  Glad I'm out of the market.The New York Stock Exchange - made up of 3,243 companies, had over 3,000 lose market value.  See above Dow Jones comment.AIG, the huge insurance company (something like 8th or 10th biggest company IN THE WORLD) is broke, and is looking for a massive capital infusion.  Something in the $70 billion range.  Their stock dropped 61% TODAY.Hewlett-Packard - PC and printer giant - announced nearly 25,000 layoffs.----------It wasn't all doom and gloom:Gold was up $26 an ounce.  Silver was up as well.Crude oil was down $7 a barrel, to finish below $95.The dollar was flat against most currencies.  It has had a trend lately of getting stronger.The Fed is indicating they won't raise rates at their next meeting.----------What does this all mean?I have no damned idea.  But my gut says this is just the beginning of a very bad spell.  Unemployment keeps going up, both the CPI and inflation are up, yet the economy (GDP) is growing at a very healthy pace. The specks of good news are over-shadowed by the clouds.  The long-term engine of our economy is consumer purchasing.  Right about 70% is driven by consumers.  If you're out of work, or stuff costs more, you're less likely to spend money.  I don't know if the boost in the GDP is broken out by cash versus credit, but I'd guess it's mostly credit.  What I'm getting at is, I don't think the growth is sustainable.  Cash is already gone, credit will dry up and things will get very ugly.As I noted yesterday, the real estate market is in the shitter, and is going to get worse before it gets better.  The vast majority of American personal net worth is tied up in real estate, and it is evaporating right before our eyes.----------So much happened today.  I have something I call my '24-hour rule'.  Before I make a big decision or set a plan of action, I try to take 24 hours to let stuff sink in and help clarify my perspective.I'm having great difficulty sorting out all of these occurrences to identify some sort of trend.  Shit is just all over the board.  Maybe I'll take 48 hours...----------On a personal note, I'm going to be making a fairly large purchase this week, a portion of which will be financed.  I approached a number of banks -all big boys, all in good financial health - and their rates were obscene (I have a great credit score and usually get the preferred rates).  These rates were a joke.I contacted a couple of credit unions, and they are damned near giving the money away.  The interest rates were less than half that of the banks.So, if you're looking for money, go local.  Your small local bank, or a local credit union.  Most CUs have very flexible membership requirements.  You no longer have to work in a specific trade, or for a specific employer.  For instance, the one I'll be using only requires that I live in the county where they're located.Labels: Life and Times, nanny state, Self-Reliance, Taxes          
