Chair of the Co-operative Party, Gareth Thomas MP, gave fraternal greetings to Labour Party Conference last week. He particularly highlighted the work on consumer rights he, as Consumer Affairs Minister, has been leading.His full speech follows: Gareth Thomas: Labour and Co-op MP for Harrow West.I am delighted to bring you fraternal greetings from the Co-op Party, the political voice of Britains co-op movement.The Co-op Party met at our conference only last week, celebrating the start of our tenth decade as a political party.We were born out of a belief that ordinary people could and should have the power themselves to organise making and selling the essentials of life. And be able to share the profits from their hard work amongst themselves and throughout their community.Ninety years on, Co-op and mutual businesses are thriving as never before.It isnt Co-op and mutuals that are in crisis at the moment having to be taken over by government or Lloyds Bank. Indeed, if Northern Rock had still been a building society, would we really have had to bail it out last year? Or would the Halifax, if it were still run as a mutual with customers, through their membership, able to reign in management, have staggered into crisis?At the heart of our politics is the simple belief that when we co-operate, when people combine and pool their talent, their skills, their imagination, their effort and their ambition, then together, we are stronger. Financial institutions in the credit crunch have not had a huge amount to celebrate. Yet the Co-op Bank, whose management is genuinely accountable to the thousands of people who are members of the C-op Group, has seen is profits rise, its bad debts fall, and all this while championing a green, ethical and socially responsible approach to business.Since 1997, weve seen the initially sceptical in government moving ever closer to the Co-op agenda; more are more effort, across government, to involve citizens and employees in the running of public services. That alongside a growing understanding of the needs and aspirations of the Co-op, social enterprise and mutual sectors.Co-op legislation has enjoyed three new Acts of Parliament; employee ownership boosted too by its own Act of Parliament. This year coming will be the sixth year in a row where legislation to make it easier to co-operate has been on Parliaments agenda.There are more than 100 councils now served by leisure services mutuals that have created new jobs and improved local leisure services. There are more than 25 GP out-of-hours mutuals, driving up standards of patient care outside of office hours  and improving doctors terms and conditions in the bargain too. There are numerous childcare co-ops and housing mutuals too.And Conference there are more than 140 football supporters trusts, now with over 90,000 members: new co-operators, giving ordinary working people a voice in the running of their local football club.Labours biggest supporter in football, Sir Alex Ferguson and the manager of the worlds greatest football team, Arsene Wenger, are fans of the great co-op idea, football supporters trusts. I hesitate to intrude on the private grief of Newcastle United fans, or in this great city of Manchester, to challenge the prevailing sense of good fortune that both City and United fans feel about the wealth of their owners, but I do worry that all three sets of fans have so little power over the running of three of the great clubs of British football.Isnt it time that football fans of Premiership teams, like those of Barcelona, should have a direct say in the running of their clubs?There are some Conference, perhaps in this hall today, worried about giving real control away to people at local level. But why shouldnt my neighbours, those who live on my street, in my community, have a direct say in the running of the services we depend on?We need more local democracy, not less. We need to transfer more power, more quickly down to ordinary people. And we need to recognise that co-operatives and mutuals, rooted in the community, run by local people, are one powerful, practical expression of that great socialist mission to deliver power to the people.We need more childcare co-operatives, not less; we need more housing mutuals, not less; we need more football supporters trusts, not less; to give local people the voice and the control that they too often lack at the moment.In short, we need to reinvigorate the ambition and aspiration of public ownership. Not old-style nationalisation, but rather how we put the public back into public services; how we offer real community control; and how we give the public, as consumers, new power to hold businesses theyre relying on truly accountable.The best co-ops and mutuals consult their consumers regularly, using their responses to mark out their development path, embracing and welcoming consumer power.We, like you, want to strengthen the hand of the consumer still further. Co-op Party members have in particular welcomed the tough new regime from October that will force energy companies to handle customer complaints better, or face referral to an Ombudsman, and financial penalties as a result.So Conference we will be with you, once again by your side, as you set out to challenge afresh the Tories. Were proud of the difference weve made in partnership with you, proud of the huge achievements since 1997. But like you, we share too, a sense of a considerable job still to do. Conference, enjoy your week.Thank you. 
