Another week has passed and I have not been good about blogging.:( I apologize to my loyal reader(s)!I have officially made the transition to night shift. I miss normal circadian rhythms!! But so far I've had decent shifts so I guess I can't complain too much. Seattle weather has rapidly turned to fall (highs in the 50s, cloudy, occasional rain showers), so it makes for good sleeping weather, at least.I wasn't planning on blogging at the moment... I sat down at the computer to do some bill-paying as it is pay day. But for some inexplicable reason, the Bank of America website is down. Which worries me in light of recent events in the financial world! I know, I know, it is unrelated, but still, makes one wonder. So since I can't pay my bills yet (should I trust that the website will indeed be back up "in a few minutes"?? Haha.), I thought I would do a quick blog. There really hasn't been too much going on lately besides work. On my days off I do lots of boring things... pay bills, do laundry, clean my apt, etc. :) Last week I did do a couple fun things. Rob and I went to the Puyallup Fair on Saturday. It was a lot of fun even though it rained most of the day! As always with a fair, I particularly enjoyed the livestock. :) I think Rob's favorite thing was the roasted corn on the cob. Sadly, there was a noticable lack of fried things on a stick... but I guess I have been spoiled in the past by the Minnesota State Fair and the North Carolina State Fair!! (As though my diet really needed fried food on a stick, anyway.) Poor little 4-H project!! In the evening, we went to the concert at the fair... Steven Curtis Chapman and Michael W. Smith. Definitely a great concert... at some points much more like thousands of people worshiping together rather than just watching a concert. Pretty cool. :)Well, I'm annoyed that I still can't log in to my bank accounts. Time to go put the laundry in the dryer (which works now... YAY!! No more underwear hanging on a rack in the living room to dry!). And maybe rustle up some lunch.
