     HOLD ON A MINUTE PLEASE ! This dramatic economic meltdown has me and I suppose millions of other American citizens dizzy. Bailouts en masse! And yet there appears to be little rhyme or reason as to who gets the government largesse. Lehman is out, AIG is in. What's the difference? Doubts surfaced. Motivated me to carefully listen to CNN's economic experts for an analysis of what is actually going on. Good that I did as it raised more disturbing questions than provided clear answers. Why was AIG bailed out and Lehman wasn't? As is typical of these kinds of puzzling events there tends to be a standard answer put out by some group which is latched onto and endless repeated. The 'line' answer to why AIG gets bailed out and not Lehman is that AIG is so huge and has its tentacles so World Wide reaching that to let it fail risked a nitemare reaction to the world economy. Wow - that sounds impressive. OK - then I guess it was right to bail it out. That would have stuck ok if not for one economist taking a contrarian point of view. He said that AIG is made up of four different components three of which are healthy. He sees no reason why the fourth couldn't have been sold off to a private company. If this were to have happened it would be much more beneficial for the American public at large as the money put up for the bailout is our money - the taxpayers money. This got me stirred up. Given the fact that I have zero trust for the Push administration and am suspicious about their every move I wondered what could they possibly be up to this time? In my mind came an association to AIG - something about possible corruption years ago that seemed very serious. Given my love of the computer that seems to know about everything that has ever happened I googled AIG and corruption. The first two URLs were fascinating. The first is a compendium of articles about AIG and corruption on a Canadian web site. The first few entries were mind blowing. They alluded to AIG being implicated as part ofthe alleged real 911 conspiracy .... I must admit this was too overwhlming for me to absorb. So in the interest of objectivity I explored the second entry. This one is as follows: &amp;quot;AIG may pay up to $90 million Article Abstract: American International Group Inc. is hoping that a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission will help it to avoid criminal prosecution for having allegedly aided two of its clients to hide negative financial results from their shareholders. Brightpoint Inc. and PNC Financial Services Group Inc. are the two companies in question. Investigations are being carried out into the nature of insurance policies provided by American International Group to both companies. author: Schroeder, Michael, Francis, Theo Publisher: Dow Jones Publishing Co. (Europe)Publication Name: Wall Street Journal. EuropeSubject: Business, internationalISSN: 0921-9986Year: 2004 Let's move to February of this year 2008. The next interesting article re AIG is titled: &amp;quot;Business titans face attack in insurance corruption case  By Anthony Bianco Published: January 8, 2008. Now this one is a doozy. &amp;quot;HARTFORD, Connecticut: The reputations of two business titans, Warren Buffett and Maurice Greenberg, came under attack as the latest corporate corruption trial got under way in U.S. District Court here this week. Five insurance executives - four formerly at General Reinsurance Corp. and one at American International Group - are accused of conspiring to create a sham transaction that inflated AIG's loss reserves by $500 million in 2000 and 2001. Neither Buffett, the chief executive of Gen Re's parent company, Berkshire Hathaway, nor Greenberg, the former chief executive of AIG, is a defendant. But if testimony heard Monday was any indication, both men will figure centrally in what could be a lengthy, contentious trial. The most prominent defendant, Ronald Ferguson, a former chief executive of Gen Re, reported directly to Buffett at the time of the deal with AIG. According to prosecutors, Greenberg initiated the fraudulent transaction with a phone call to Ferguson, his &amp;quot;friend and confidant,&amp;quot; and AIG paid Gen Re a $5 million fee. But prosecutors said that Ferguson's objective was to help AIG, Gen Re's biggest client, at a time when AIG's declining loss reserves were hurting its stock. &amp;quot;The goal of this conspiracy was to help AIG lie,&amp;quot; an assistant federal prosecutor, Raymond Patricco, said in opening arguments. &amp;quot;When you know the true deal, but document a false one, that is a lie.&amp;quot; While Patricco repeatedly cited Greenberg's involvement, he did not mention Buffett, who has cooperated with regulators and prosecutors and whom the government included on its list of potential witnesses.&amp;quot; Now carefully read the following: &amp;quot; Government investigations of AIG's dealings with Gen Re figured prominently in the decision by AIG's board of directors to oust Greenberg in March 2005, after 37 years as chief executive. A year later, AIG paid $1.64 billion to settle charges of fraud and securities law violations brought by the federal and New York State authorities. At the same time, AIG conceded that the $500 million reinsurance transaction with Gen Re was bogus and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation. Greenberg later invoked constitutional protections against self-incrimination in refusing to testify before the Securities Exchange Commission in its civil inquiry, which is ongoing.&amp;quot; AIG - this upstanding company worthy of an 85 billion dollar bail out paid $1.64 billion dollars - to settle a fraud charge! Why then is our governnment messing with this corrupt organization? This is getting more and more sordid. &amp;quot;Two Gen Re executives pleaded guilty in 2005 and will testify for the prosecution: John Houldsworth, the former chief executive of Cologne Re Dublin, an Irish subsidiary of Gen Re through which the transaction was funneled, and Richard Napier, a senior vice president who managed General Re's business with AIG.&amp;quot; I am not casting aspertions but it is interesting that John McCain made a major flip flob in his position on the AIG bailout. &amp;quot; McCain Flip-Flops On AIG Bailout In 24 Hours  Yesterday, the federal government offered insurance giant AIG an $85 billion loan to in the biggest government takeover thus far in the ongoing credit crisis. Interviewed on NBC's Today Show before the decision yesterday, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) said that &amp;quot;we cannot have the taxpayers bail out AIG or anybody else&amp;quot;:  No, I do not believe that the American taxpayer should be on the hook for AIG and I'm glad that the Secretary Paulson has apparently taken the same line. Interviewed on ABC this morning, however, McCain suggested that he supported the bail out:  I didn't want to do that. And I don't think anybody I know wanted to do that. But there are literally millions of people whose retirement, whose investment, whose insurance were at risk here. They were going to have their lives destroyed because of the greed and excess and corruption.&amp;quot; Ok - enough - you see where I am coming from. My cusory research supports my original intution that something smells rotten about this deal. Perhaps others might wish to set the record straight or validate that it is actually more crooked    
