If you're a writer, you know what platform is. We've all heard we need to have a 'platform', something like a springboard from which to launch your career. A lot of authors are also speakers, they write devotions or play the banjo...you know, something that makes them stand out in a crowd. So what do you do when you don't want to stand out? Seriously, it's a valid question. I've always been extremely shy, stop laughing right now, I mean it, I have. I hate being pulled out of a crowd or being noticed in any way whatsoever. I abhor those shows that require audience participation and avoid them at all costs. When the kids were small and we took them to a magic show for instance, I'd cringe when they would ask for volunteers from the audience and then start picking people out at random. Don't ask me how I got this way, I just did. My biggest fear of entering the Genesis competition was 'What if I actually won?" I'd have to get up on stage and make a speech. Holy Moses! Fortunately, that's never been a problem, I've never even placed. So what then am I to do if by some miracle, let's say there's a total eclipse of the sun and all the planets are aligned and God looks down on me and grins and says, "Watch this, I'm gonna give her the shock of her life..." and wow, some wonderful editor decides to offer me a publishing contract.I need a platform. I'm going to have to promote myself, right? Ack. Can I do that over the internet? Do I have to leave the house? Help me out here, folks. How do you overcome your shyness? How do you build a platform before you're published? I'm told that having a blog is a good start. So for all of you five followers, thanks for reading! So now that I've got that off my chest, let's drag me out of the box a little. Anything you want to know about me? Ask away. Never been to Bermuda, want to know what it's like? Throw some questions at me. Maybe I'll make living in Bermuda my platform. I don't think too many CBA authors can claim that one!Okay, I'm waiting. And I promise to be polite. And not stammer. Much.
