I miss blogging. Thats one fact in my think-tank that I can not eradicate no matter how persistent I am on trying to ignore this longing. It has already been almost 10 months ago since my last post and obviously a lot have happened during that lengthy hiatus, such happenings that are really worth sharing with my blog, but I failed to do so because I was too lazy to write all about them. Another factor was, I dont have my own internet connection anymore. It would be a pain, going to and fro the town centre just to go online, with my parents being so stingy to me these days, I hated it. But now the long wait is over. I can not ignore this burning desire forever. Im a born writer! A writer has to write even if people dont actually read his writings. Right? I guess at this point, youre already expecting me to relate a summary of the happenings that has been, but I wont. These happenings are already a thing of the past, and relaying them to you would just take me ages to finish writing them down. Since its the start of the new year, why dont we just stick to the present, for now.At this moment, Im typing this down in our room, my familys room, here in Sharjah, UAE. It has been a great feeling being reunited with my family once again, since it has only happened once before when they came home in the Philippines, when I was still staying there trying to finish my studies. But right now is more special because this isnt just another one of those vacation trips like before. I guess well be together for quite a longer time, well at least thats what Im hoping for. Its really great being given a chance to come back here in this country where I grew up. I guess thats the reason why I had no difficulties trying to adjust to my new (yet not so new) environment, though a lot has really changed since the last 8 years that Ive been gone. Not just a lot. I mean, this place just BOOMED, big time. Not that Im not aware of it, its just a different experience when youre actually here getting an actual view of the place. Everything here is just spectacular. Comparing the past with the present has just recently been my favourite hobby. I guess its a more fun thing to do when youre able to see them directly, not just trying to visualize the whole thing. A lot has changed and everything is just spectacular. (Did I say that already?) Dont worry coz in my succeeding posts, I think Ill tackle some of my ventures here within the Emirates. Thatd be exciting!Aside from that, because of this nasty financial turmoil, Im still (unfortunately) unemployed. Yet Im still grateful because without my parents employers support, I wouldnt be here right now. Plus, they are the ones who referred me to Citibank, coz one of their nephews is a manager there. So a week ago, I got invited for an interview, I dont really know how I did coz they just told me to wait for a call after a week or two but until now, I havent received any. If until this coming week and still no call yet, Im afraid theyd deploy me at Emic (Emirates Metallic Industries Corp.). But I dont want to! I wanna work in the financial district of Dubai, not within the Industrial Area. Thats why Im aint giving up on hope.  I just wish good news will come this coming week.End! till next post! :D
