So, Pillow and I really wanted to get into Yokohama, which meant we were awake before noon! Amazing but true!We met a civilian couple staying on the base on the way out to town, which was kind of nice, but neither one of them spoke English very well (they were Israeli) and so we were all, "let's awkward conversating!" Ah well. We showed them how to get to Yokosuka-chuo, and along the way, we noticed that... almost all of the stores were closed. Hm. I had read that Japan kind of kicks back for the first few days of the new year, so I guess it's not that surprising, but I pointed it out to Pillow and we decided not to attempt Yokohama after all.Instead, we went to the mall by the station, which was open and having sales, ooo~ There was a jewelry store with really pretty stainless steel rings, and since we still need to get our actual wedding rings and whatnot we stopped by to look at it. I did an alright job talking to the saleswoman, in fact, I was quite impressed with myself! We'd picked out the rings and all and were all ready to pay for them... when Pillow's debit card decided that it didn't want to work.AUGHHH.So I gave her my Hello Kitty card.DIDN'T WORK EITHER. Color me embarrassed!! We apologized and left, feeling chagrined and kind of baffled as to why Pillow's card was rejected (I mean, he's been over here and using it long enough...), but somewhat understanding why my card would be declined (I haven't). I was in kind of a sour mood after that, which only proceeded to get worse when I couldn't figure out how to call Bank of America from the Japanese phone -- since it says to call collect if you're outside of the US, and uh, for the life of me, I could not get that to work. Disappointed with both the aborted trip and the failed ring purchase, we trudged to the food court where I ate a mediocre sub and gritted my teeth while the guy sitting behind me shook the entire booth by tapping his foot constantly. As an aside, I do that too, but like... I am a tiny girl, so it doesn't really affect anything. Also, there were 439067820476 open booths and he and his wife chose the obscure little corner Pillow and I were lunching in to come sit and talk loudly about babies and other nonsense.We stopped into the NEX briefly, where I suffered even more irritation because it seemed like EVERYONE with small children was out in full force today! It's not really a secret that, outside of extended family, I kind of despise most children. Especially ones that seem to be in dire need of parenting. Or one of those leash things. I opted to wait outside because I seriously felt like I was either going to pass out or scream if I stayed in that crowded department store a second longer.As we walked back to the Navy Lodge, I decided to try the ATM, just on a whim, to see if my debit card worked. LO AND BEHOLD -- it did. So we both kind of facepalmed and just gave up, went back to the lodge, and fell asleep.So, third time was NOT a charm. But I assure you, SOMEDAY, we will get to Yokohama.Love,Sarah
