I have alot of catching up to do:)  We made it to Maryland safe and sound and are pretty cozy now in our new apartment:)  We've been in Maryland since the end of November.  Moving across the country was crazy and setting things like internet, cable, etc. in our new place was such a pain!  Atleast we are pretty well settled now.  Ryan started his new job at Nationwide insurance on December 1st and I just started a couple of weeks ago working at his dad's Nationwide office.  It's always hard starting a new job but I think we are both getting more comfortable:)  It didn't help that I was having to take Ryan to work which is about 35 minutes from us b/c we only had my civic until last weekend we finally got a new car:)  I love our new 03' Acura MDX!!  I will have to take pics of it soon:)  It has everything we wanted and more; navigation, dvd player, back-up camera, heated seats, running boards, and 6 cd changer:)  We are loving it!  We went to Texas for Christmas and Travy got home from his mission 2 days before Christmas:)  Our whole family was back together!  It was so much fun!  Ryan stayed for a week then had to get back to work:(  I stayed an extra week which was so fun!  Susan is going to make me a cd of all the Christmas pictures so I will have to post them in the future.  After Thanksgiving Mimi and Daddy came to visit us in Maryland:)  I loved having them here!  We showed them around all the sights:)  We bought a bushel of crabs and took them back to our place to smash them open!  It was alot of fun:) Mimi helped me decorate our new place and I love it!!  Thanks Momma and Thanks Daddy for induring all the shopping:)  One day we went to Baltimore and visited Fort McHenry and ate at this place called the Rusty Scupper on the Inner Harbor where Mimi and Daddy had there first real crabcake:)  Another day we made a trip to Amish land in Pennsylvania and saw lots of horse and buggies and talked to an Amish family.  The Amish boys were so cute and they have a little accent:)  Our last day of sighting seeing we went to D.C. and tried to see all the monuments but it was just way too freezing so we decided to go to the Smithsonian which was pretty neat:)  After getting warmed up we went to Arlington cemetary which was my favorite even though we walked about a mile up hill which was hard enough for me and Ryan let alone Mimi and Daddy!  But I think we all loved it.  At the top of the site we got to go inside Robert E. Lee's mansion:)   Our last stop in D.C. was the Temple, it's sooo beautiful!!  I'm so glad they were able to come out here, we had so much fun:)  This new year one of my goals is to be better at blogging so I don't always have to play catch-up:)  I'll post more pics soon!
