I should probably post my resolutions... I've had this drafted since before New Years, but never posted it.  So anywho, here are my resolutions for this year. I know a lot of people think it's stupid for people to make resolutions once a year and that if there's something you want to do/change you should just do it when you think of it, but I think the thing is that a lot of us just don't think about a lot of these things throughout the year. When the year comes to an end, people seem to spend a lot of time thinking about things from the past year. Especially things that happened earlier in the year that you really haven't thought about since then. Things that maybe aren't as easy to remember as whatever happened around October or November because they were so recent. So I spent some time contemplating the things that went on over the last year... Things that I liked, things that I didn't like. How my actions effected other people. Things I'd like to try. And this is what I came up with.I'd like to pay off my credit cards. I took on quite a bit more debt this year, compared to what I had last year. Between the wedding, the moving costs, furnishing my new apartment, etc. I ended up with, between the wedding loan and a couple of new credit cards, with about $7,000 more debt than I had last year!! That's so scary to think about. That's horrible really. I probably have a total of $10,000 in debt, including a bit that I still owe my mom, and not counting my car. So my entire tax refund this year will be going towards paying off my highest interest card (Bank of America Visa), and then the left over will go towards my mom. It'll cover both, with some to spare. That'll go onto the card with the next highest interest rate, of course. I'd like to not cut any length off my hair. I haven't had it long since like, before Kaylyn was born and I really miss it. I totally kept my hair the way Brian liked it for the longest time (short and dark), and I liked it and all, but I really do like having long hair and I miss it. So besides trimming off split ends and such, no cutting this year! I want to see how long I can get it by the end of the year. Also, no dying it brown. Read at least one book a week. I've kinda slacked in the reading department the past few weeks, but I'm putting an end to that. Especially because I joined BookSwim. If you want to join, let me know and I'll send you an invitation which will give you a code to receive 60% off your first month. Get back into blogging, and do it at least once a week. So I've already started failing at this one technically, since I didn't post once in the first week of January, but I'm going to try really hard to stick to this from here on out. This also includes reading all of your blogs and commenting. I'd like to get Kaylyn potty trained by June. And I'd like to get her off her bedtime/naptime bottle by the end of February. Right now we've cut the sleepy time milk in half (with water), and then will get onto 100% water. After that, we'll start switching the bottle out for a sippy cup. Another thing I'd like to do this year, is to keep on top of messes as they happen. Typically I wait until nighttime or a day that I don't have Kaylyn to clean up after her, but from now on I'm going to clean them up as they happen, and have her help me. So far we're doing really well with this, and it's given me great motivation to keep it up.Quit being a flake! Ugh, for those of you who don't know me in real life, I must confess that I'm a flake. For those of you who do know me, I apologize for my flakiness. I'm completely vowing not to flake on people anymore unless there is a truly valid excuse, like one of the kids being sick. No more not doing anything because I just don't feel like it, or allowing myself to forget. I'm setting reminders on my phone and I'm going to stick to my commitments and not make any that I'm not sure I can keep. If I want to do something but am not positive that I can, I'll make sure the person I'm making the plans with knows that.  So far so good, but we're only 10 days out.I think that's it. There was probably more, but I don't remember now lol. Nobody said I can't add to this later though, right.
