WORKERS in Chester face an uncertain future following Bank of America's shock announcement about job losses.  The Bank of America today announced plans to shed up to 35,000 jobs worldwide over the next three years.  The news will strike fear into Chester's many workers at the business park site and will contribute further problems to the already battered financial sector.  A spokesman for MBNA, the European branch of the bank, said it would not be announcing where the job cuts would be made until the New Year.  Cllr Stuart Parker, executive member of development for Chester City Council, said: 'It's bad news but we don't know yet what affect it will have on Chester, which is our priority.  'Even if we're not affected it's still bad news.'  A statement released by the bank said: 'Bank of America Corporation is working on a plan to eliminate a significant number of positions over the next three years reflecting the pending merger with Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co Inc and the weak economic environment, which is affecting the level of business activity.  'While both factors will result in the elimination of positions, the company has not completed its analysis.  'Bank of America expects to have a final plan early in 2009 and estimates it will project the reduction of approximately 30,000 to 35,000 positions over the next three years.  'A final number will not be determined until early 2009.  'The reductions are coming from both companies and affect all lines of business and staff units. Details as to specific reductions in communities or by business line have not been determined.  'As many reductions as possible will be made through attrition.  Severance and other benefits will be provided for those associates whose jobs are eliminated and who cannot be offered another position.  'The reductions are designed to eliminate redundancies created as a result of the merger with Merrill Lynch and to reflect the current recessionary environment.'  Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions. The Chester Business Park site is the bank's only branch in England.  
