 With Merrill deal done, the latest 'universal bank' must prove it can handle all that weight  December 7, 2008 12:01 AM ET Bloomberg BIG SPENDER Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis. By winning shareholder approval last week for its acquisition of Merrill Lynch, Bank of America cleared the final obstacle to becoming a sprawling global financial services empire, strong in both retail offerings and investment banking. But now that brash CEO Kenneth Lewis has created a company big enough to compete in every nook of the banking universe, he might find it difficult to actually succeed. "Running a universal bank is going to be tough," said Michael J. McKeon, a senior partner specializing in financial services at consulting firm Booz &amp;amp; Co. "Having a coordinated management team deal with the different talent pools, compensation schemes and risk vs. reward scenarios in each of the businesses is going to be a daunting task." Mr. Lewis is no stranger to big-and at times controversial-deals. In 2006, B of A acquired MBNA for $35 billion, giving it a massive credit card operation. The following year he stepped into the middle of the battle over the acquisition of ABN Amro, paying the Dutch bank $21 billion for LaSalle Bank. Then there was his $4 billion deal for Countrywide Financial, once the undisputed champion of mortgage lending. Now Mr. Lewis has armed himself with a formidable brokerage and investment banking operation. With Mr. Lewis' latest deal, the banking giant has become a juggernaut, and much has been made of the blended company's potentially dominant retail offerings. The amalgamation of B of A's network of 6,100 branches, the largest in the country, and Merrill's famous "thundering herd" of more than 16,000 brokers was a big part of what made the combination "an ideal, long-term fit," as Mr. Lewis described it on a conference call after the deal was announced on Sept. 15. B of A also gets Merrill's powerful investment bank, which ranks fourth in equity underwriting and sixth in both debt underwriting and mergers and acquisitions advice so far this year, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters. B of A's i-banking operation currently has a significant presence only in equities, where it ranks eighth. "Merrill can bring equity underwriting, investment management, a strong retail sales force and international penetration to Bank of America," Ladenburg Thalmann banking analyst Richard Bove wrote in a note to clients after the deal was announced. "In turn, Bank of America has 68,000 commercial customers and millions of account holders who could benefit from Merrill's investment services." All told, the deal will create the largest U.S. financial services company by assets, catapulting B of A, with a $2.7 trillion balance sheet, past rival universal banks J.P. Morgan Chase ($2.25 trillion in assets at the end of the third quarter) and Citigroup ($2.09 trillion). Absorbing Merrill will certainly help B of A compete with the other big players in the financial services sector, even if talk circulated in the weeks leading up to the shareholders vote that the price-about $50 billion in stock when the deal was announced-might have been too rich. "Against the potential opportunity to cut price, [B of A] shareholders need to consider the compelling strategic rationale, and the significant potential synergies, subject, as always, to significant execution and culture risks," wrote analysts at proxy adviser RiskMetrics, which supports the deal, in a report released ahead of the vote. But the marriage of B of A and Merrill, and the trend toward supersized financial services companies, is not without risk, as Citi's recent travails illustrate. Once the biggest U.S. bank, Citi has shed billions of dollars in assets as it writes down the value of souring real estate-backed investments and reduces leverage. It has received $47 billion in capital and a guarantee to backstop losses on a $306 billion pool of assets from the U.S. government. And it's still threatened by potential losses on credit cards and other consumer loans as the economy weakens. All the while, its revenue from investment banking has shrunk and total deposits have declined. Unhappy investors have punished Citi's stock, sending it down 75% this year through last Thursday, compared with a 29% drop for J.P. Morgan and a 65% decline for B of A. "Investors have registered their ire about the financial conglomerate model as it's been put into practice by Citigroup," said Nancy Bush, a bank analyst and president of NAB Research. "But the Treasury, by forcing the investment banks to merge with commercial banks or become bank holding companies, has clearly indicated that it likes this model." Indeed, a combined B of A-Merrill Lynch seems to have some of the same weaknesses. Both companies have struggled with souring real estate-related investments. B of A reported a $3 billion loss in its credit card portfolio in the third quarter, and thanks to its 2006 acquisition of MBNA, is one of the biggest card issuers, like Citi. Meanwhile, revenue from Merrill's vaunted brokerage division has declined for three straight quarters, according to Securities and Exchange Commission filings, and the turmoil in the financial markets has rattled its investment bank. And then there are the worries over a potential culture clash between B of A's sober bankers and Merrill Lynch's hard-charging brokers. Many observers see Merrill CEO John Thain's continued presence among the combined company's top managers as a sign B of A won't tamper too much with Merrill's corporate personality. "If B of A lets the Merrill organization keep its culture, then the two of them should coexist profitably and successfully," said George McCormick, who works on integration issues for consultancy Hay Group. If Mr. Lewis can keep his employees happy, realize the $4 billion in after-tax savings he plans to achieve by reducing overlapping functions, and successfully integrate all of his company's new businesses, B of A will likely remind people less of Citi and more of one of its other peers, said Ms. Bush. "I'm not sure we can take the experience of Citigroup and apply that everywhere," she said. "Everyone says they hate the universal banking model, but they don't hate it at J.P. Morgan." Write to Tim Catts at tcatts@financialweek.com. Or write to the editors at fw_editor@financialweek.com.   More on this Topic 12/7/2008 12:04:34 AMEditorial: 12/7/2008 12:04:33 AM 12/7/2008 12:04:33 AMBig Deals 12/7/2008 12:03:50 AM 12/7/2008 12:03:50 AM
