The U.S. financial sector started the week higher, extending the rally from the previous session as President-elect Barack Obama's plan to boost infrastructure spending to create jobs lifted markets around the globe.An exchange-traded fund tracking large-cap financial stocks, Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund , was up 4% in afternoon dealings Monday. The ETF jumped more than 8% on Friday after Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.'s efforts to reassure investors helped push the sector higher.Hartford shares doubled on Friday and were up 7% in recent action. Elsewhere in the insurance sector, Genworth Financial Inc. surged more than 40%. Another big percentage gainer in the financial sector was KKR Financial Holdings , which rose more than 20%.MetLife Inc. was holding its annual investor conference Monday. The company before the opening bell said it expected fourth-quarter and full-year net income to come in ahead of consensus estimates. However, it warned it could post a fourth-quarter operating loss due to challenges in its variable-annuity business and falling markets. MetLife shares were down fractionally at last check. See full coverage.The Wall Street Journal on Monday reported that a group working for state insurance regulators has approved several proposals submitted by the life-insurance industry in recent weeks aimed at lowering insurers' capital and reserve requirements. See full story at WSJ.com.Shares of NYSE Euronext rallied more than 20% following news that merger talks with German exchange operator Deutsche Boerse didn't bear fruit. Exchange stocks traded higher as CME Group Inc. rose 14% and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. gained 9%. See related story.In other developments in the financial sector, Rodman &amp;amp; Renshaw Capital Group Inc. on Monday offered $7 a share in cash and stock to buy Cowen Group Inc. . Cowen in a separate release quickly rejected the offer, and Cowen shares rose about 11%.Banking stocks also gained ground Monday. Citigroup Inc. , J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. and Morgan Stanley all posted gains, while Bank of America Corp. rose more than 10%.Merrill Lynch , which is being acquired by Bank of America, was also up more than 10%. The Wall Street Journal on Monday reported Merrill's chief executive, John Thain, has suggested to directors that he receive a 2008 bonus of as much as $10 million, but the company's compensation committee has balked at the request. See complete article at WSJ.com.New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo told the board of Merrill Lynch on Monday that the reported bonus of $10 million for Chief Executive John Thain 'appears unjustified.'Cuomo said in a letter to the board that Merrill Lynch has lost more than $11 billion over the year and that 'the performance of Merrill's top executives throughout Merrill's abysmal year in no way justifies significant bonuses for its top executives, including the CEO.' 
