 yesterday said it plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs over the next three years, about 10 percent of its workforce, as it absorbs its $50 billion purchase of  and a rapidly weakening economy.  The cuts by the Charlotte, N.C., bank are among the largest by any financial firm since the housing and credit crisis earlier this year pitched the economy further into recession. They also vividly emphasize the vast scale of layoffs by companies in the face of what many economists forecast will be the longest slowdown to hit the nation since World War II.  In November, Citigroup said it would reduce its worldwide employment by more than 50,000, and Sun MicroSystems disclosed plans to cut 6,000 workers, 18 percent of its workforce. Also yesterday, the US Labor Department reported that new claims for unemployment benefits reached their highest level since the 1982 recession.'We're going to see a lot more bad news over the next several months,' said Michael Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, who predicted the state will be hit hard because the financial sector has long been a pillar of the local economy. 'No one is immune. It's like an avalanche.'The nation's largest retail bank, Bank of America is also the largest retail bank in Massachusetts with 309 branches and 8,000 employees. Among operations in Boston are its wealth and investment management divisions, which includes the Columbia Management mutual funds unit and US Trust, its private banking business for wealthy customers.  Bank of America said it won't have specific details of where the job cuts will be, or how many will be in New England, until early next year. It did say that whenever possible it will eliminate positions through attrition rather than layoffs.'At this point, we don't foresee either the relocation of major business groups or the closing of major facilities in New England,' said spokesman James Mahoney.  US Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has long pushed to have Bank of America meet its promised employment levels in Massachusetts following its purchase of FleetBoston Financial Group. The Newton Democrat predicted the number of job cuts would be smaller in Massachusetts because the bank does not have many employees from Merrill or another company it recently acquired, Countrywide Financial Corp., located here.'So given the rationale of the cuts, they should be less than proportionate' on regional employees, Frank said. 'They can't use the consolidation and results from buying Merrill as a reason to reduce employees here,' he said.Frank said the size of the cuts is confirmation of how bad the economy is and provides further evidence of the need for Congress to pass a massive spending plan to stimulate the economy. 
