BofA chief says he's confident in lending-firm deal, green efforts  Bank of America's chief executive got an earful Wednesday from investors who sounded off about the company's environmental record and its bid for Countrywide Financial.  Ken Lewis, speaking at the annual shareholders meeting in uptown Charlotte, also acknowledged disappointment in the bank's recent performance: Earnings have fallen for three quarters, and the stock is down about 25 percent over the year. '2007 was a tough year,' said Lewis, the CEO since 2001.  Outside, a dozen activists protested the bank's involvement in coal-fired power plants and called the company 'the bank of climate change.' Inside, shareholders asked repeatedly about the bank's acquisition of troubled mortgage lender Countrywide, which is scheduled to close in July.  But the meeting, which drew about 130 shareholders and almost 800 employees, was low-key compared to Wachovia's on Tuesday, when CEO Ken Thompson faced calls for his resignation after Wachovia reported a first-quarter loss of $393 million and a dividend cut of 41 percent.  Bank of America's meeting came two days after it reported first-quarter earnings of $1.2 billion, down 77 percent from the year before, due largely to rising loan defaults and losses from trading subprime-backed securities.  But chief financial officer Joe Price told shareholders that the bank is 'better positioned than any other financial services company' to weather current economic turmoil, noting that the bank has already adjusted to the market. It has downsized in corporate and investment banking, mortgage and other areas, and tightened standards for issuing loans, he said, and it plans to grow revenue by pursuing retirement accounts and services for the ultra-wealthy.  Lewis said the bank plans to increase earnings per share to an average of 10 percent annually -- 'an ambitious but reasonable goal,' he said. Earnings per share in the first quarter were down 80 percent over the year, to 23 cents from $1.16.  Price also said that, 'as of today,' he sees no reason to pare dividends, which are quarterly payments to shareholders. Peers including Wachovia, National City Corp. and Citigroup Inc. have slashed dividends in the current mortgage mess.  All eight shareholder proposals failed, but two -- one that would give shareholders an advisory vote on executives' salaries, and another that would make it easier for shareholders to call special meetings -- garnered 44 percent of the votes cast.  Other shareholders expressed concerns about Bank of America's bid for Countrywide, the troubled mortgage lender based in California. The $4 billion deal, scheduled to close in July, would make Bank of America the nation's largest mortgage lender. It also means that the bank will inherit a company facing lawsuits over subprime loans and a high rate of foreclosure.  Frank Inman, an Oregon investor and former business professor, compared the Countrywide deal to Wachovia's $24 billion purchase of Golden West Financial in 2006. Wachovia's acquisition of the California-based mortgage lender has been partly blamed for the bank's recent losses. 'I hope we don't come to that,' Inman said.Lewis expressed confidence in the Countrywide deal, lawsuits and all, and reminded shareholders that the bank on Tuesday announced it would bring Countrywide's lending standards more in line with Bank of America's stricter policies.  He also said that Bank of America would 'be as flexible as we can' in working with homeowners facing foreclosure. 'It will be a significantly different company,' he said, referring to the Countrywide deal, and added later, 'The last thing any lender wants to do is foreclose on a property.'Other shareholders criticized Bank of America's environmental record, saying the bank's commitments to clean energy and other green causes are just lip service or 'greenwashing.' Before the meeting, about a dozen activists from the Rainforest Action Network and other groups rallied outside the bank; they singled out Bank of America because it funds coal-fired power plants and surface coal mining, also known as mountaintop-removal mining. The protestors stuffed an effigy of Lewis with coal, and yelled 'Your investments are funding the death of this planet,' at investors and employees entering the meeting.  Carl Shoupe, a retired coal miner from Benham, Ky., urged Lewis to reconsider funding surface mining. 'Come to Appalachia,' Shoupe, 61, said before the meeting. 'We'll show you how clean coal is.'Lewis noted the bank's $20 billion, 10-year commitment to green technologies, which it announced last year. He also pointed out that 50 percent of the nation's electricity comes from coal, 'and we can't just turn out the lights.'On April 1, the Rainforest Action Network and other environmental groups gave Lewis its 'Fossil Fool' award. The same day, Lewis accepted an award from another environmental group, the Natural Resources Defense Council. 
