(RTTNews) - New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo on Monday told Merrill Lynch that he sees a proposed $10-million bonus for company CEO John Thain as 'unjustified' in light of the financial crisis and the performance of the company this year.  'Current reports that the Board is considering giving Merrill's Chief Executive Officer a $10 million bonus are nothing less than shocking,' Cuomo wrote in a letter to Merrill's board of directors.  The letter pointed out that Merrill reported losses for every quarter this year, totaling more than $11 billion for the year as a whole. The Attorney General also noted that a merger deal with Bank of America (BAC:  News ) may have been 'the only thing that saved Merrill from collapse.'  According to the Wall Street Journal and other media reports, Thain has suggested that he get a 2008 bonus of as much as $10 million, but the firm's compensation committee is resistant to the proposal.  Cuomo asked Merrill's board to inform him of its intentions with regard to bonuses as soon as possible. The attorney general said he would like to meet with the board if it intends to pay top executives 'significant bonuses' in order to hear the reason behind the decision.  Some business experts have argued that such bonuses are necessary, even when companies have poor performances, in order to keep good employees with the company for the long run.  Cuomo took on this issue directly in his letter, noting that Bank of America has already determined that Thain will run the global banking, securities and wealth management business for the combined company.  The attorney general was careful to say that he was not making disparaging the abilities of the Merrill CEO, but that his goal was protecting taxpayer money. Cuomo pointed out that Bank of America has received about $25 billion in money from the federal government's financial relief fund.  'It is imperative that Merrill's Board prevent wasteful expenditures of corporate funds on outsized executive bonuses and other unjustified compensation,' Cuomo's letter stated.  
