Dec 10 (Reuters) - Banking giants Bank of America Corp and Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co need to raise billions of dollars in common equity and face a high risk of a dividend cut, veteran banking analyst Richard Staite said and downgraded both the stocks.   Analyst Staite of Atlantic Equities downgraded Bank of America to 'underweight' from 'neutral' and Wells Fargo to 'neutral' from 'overweight.' Staite said JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co has the strongest capital ratios -- a measure of capital strength that investors are closely watching these days -- and is the least likely of the three banks to cut its dividend or raise new equity.   He expects Bank of America and Wells Fargo to raise $15 billion and $10 billion in common equity, respectively, and said their payout ratios could exceed 100 percent in 2009. 'These payout ratios are too high and given the uncertainty of a recovery in 2010 we now think there is a high chance of a dividend cut from both Bank of America and Wells Fargo,' he said. Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill Lynch and Wells Fargo's acquisition of Wachovia Corp have hurt their tangible common equity to tangible asset ratio, thereby making equity raise necessary, Staite said.   However, JPMorgan's acquisition of Washington Mutual should be relatively easy to integrate and will increase the company's market share, particularly in investment banking, the analyst said. He maintained an 'overweight' rating on JPMorgan shares.   Staite reduced his fourth-quarter and 2009 profit estimates on all three banks and said a severe recession will extend throughout 2009.   (Reporting by Anurag Kotoky in Bangalore; Editing by Himani Sarkar) Keywords: BANKS/RESEARCH ATLANTICEQUITIES   (anurag.kotoky@thomsonreuters.com; within U.S. +1 646 223 8780; outside U.S. +91 80 4135 5800; Reuters Messaging: anurag.kotoky.thomsonreuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
