FT: AIG agrees to break itself up By Francesco Guerrera in New York Published: March 1 2009 18:10   Last updated: March 1 2009 23:34 AIG will on Monday announce a radical plan to break itself up after 90 years as a global insurance conglomerate by ceding control of its two largest divisions to the US government in exchange for a $30bn-plus lifeline. The move, aimed at helping the stricken insurer absorb the blow of huge losses, is the third time in five months AIG has been bailed out by the authorities. Coming shortly after the third government rescue of Citigroup, the decision to save AIG could fuel mounting public anger. EDITORS CHOICE AIG hammers out its third bail-out deal - Mar-01 Tepid interest in AIG Asia unit - Feb-25 AIG considers break-up in bid to stay afloat - Feb-25 Lex: AIG - Feb-26 World View: Buyers not tempted to enter flooded market - Feb-25 The latest plan, approved by AIGs board on Sunday, spells the end of any lingering hopes the company could survive as a standalone insurance group. At the end of the restructuring, AIG will remain as a holding company but its main task would be to sell off or list businesses such as its US personal lines insurer, an aircraft leasing company and its global general insurance unit, and could eventually be wound down. We are breaking up AIG but we are trying to do it in a way that preserves value for the taxpayer, the employees and the businesses, said a person close to the plan, which was revealed by the Financial Times last week. People close to the situation said the authorities, which already own 80 per cent of AIG, would get a controlling stake of 70-75 per cent in American International Assurance (AIA)  AIGs large Asian operations  and American Life Insurance Company (Alico), a global life insurance business. The structure is aimed at giving the government a better chance to recoup taxpayers money when the two businesses are sold or listed. AIG will also securitise $10bn to $15bn of cash flow from its US life insurance operations and sell the bonds to the government, insiders said. In return, the government will cancel most or all of the $37bn it is owed from AIG as part of a $60bn credit line it extended in November. The authorities will also lower the interest rate on the rest of the loan, saving AIG $1bn a year. And the government will provide a $30bn standby equity line  a promise to buy preferred shares in AIG  that it can tap if needed. Edward Liddy, AIGs chief executive, had hoped to retain a majority stake in AIA. But AIGs dire finances  it is expected to report a fourth-quarter loss of $60bn on Monday  scuppered those plans. AIG, its advisers Blackstone, the New York Federal Reserve and the US Treasury declined to comment. Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2009
