 The WSJ story;      Rating Agencies Endorse Revised AIG Bailout       By MATTHEW KARNITSCHNIG and LIAM PLEVEN   MARCH 1, 2009, 3:29 A.M. ET     Major credit rating agencies have signed off on the latest revamp of American International Group Inc.'s $150 billion government rescue package, people familiar with the matter say, removing the most immediate threat to the plan's implementation. Both Standard &amp; Poor's and Moody's Investors Services have quietly endorsed the terms of the revised bailout, which was negotiated over a period of months between AIG and government officials, the people said. A spokesman for S&amp;P said: "We are aware of aspects of the plan and it's likely that we'll put out a public response after the announcement."      Moody's declined to comment.      The agreement clears the way for the insurer's board to give its final approval when it meets on Sunday. AIG's latest restructuring, the third iteration since the company's near collapse in September, is expected to be announced with the insurer's results on Monday. Without the support of the credit rating agencies, AIG would have faced crippling cuts to its ratings. The downgrades would likely have forced it to post billions in collateral on an array of financial contracts. It would have also triggered the termination of many corporate insurance policies, costing AIG billions more.      The credit rating agencies have faced harsh criticism for not highlighting the risks in AIG's operations that led to its crisis. But their assessment of the insurer's creditworthiness remains a decisive factor in many of the contracts AIG has entered into with trading partners and insurance clients. In a November filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, AIG warned that a one-notch downgrade of its long-term rating could cause it to have to pay out around $8 billion to its counterparties, including collateral and "termination payments" on contracts it has written.      The filing said the impact of a two-notch downgrade from current levels could be much bigger, giving counterparties the right to terminate transactions that cover nearly $48 billion in debt. AIG has since exited or posted collateral against some of those positions, so its actual cash outflow in such a situation would likely be less than that amount.      AIG sought the latest revision of the terms on the government aid after its plan to repay up to $100 billion in assistance through asset sales failed. The company has blamed the financial crisis and the scarcity of credit for the difficulties. But the insurer's continued crisis  its fourth-quarter loss is expected to top $60 billion due mainly to asset write-downs  has also substantially weakened its negotiating position with potential suitors.      Many details of the new plan aren't clear but like the original, it will result in a complete reconfiguration of AIG. Compared to the original agreement, however, which placed harsh conditions on the insurer, the new plan is more forgiving. The revised plan relies on a series of complicated financial maneuvers that will reduce AIG's interest and debt burdens, while also deepening government involvement and taxpayer exposure.      Asset sales remain a feature of the new blueprint. It also foresees AIG repaying some of its debt through the transfer of certain assets to the government and the securitization of others. The government's stake in AIG, which is now just under 80%, isn't expected to change substantially. In November, after it became clear that the original rescue package was inadequate, the government agreed to changes. The original deal involved a two-year loan of up to $85 billion that carried an interest rate of 8.5% plus three-month Libor.      Under the November revision, AIG received a loan of up to $60 billion due in five years. Interest on the loan was cut to 3% plus Libor. (Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is a common short-term benchmark.) In addition, the government made a $40 billion investment in AIG in return for preferred shares that paid a 10% interest rate. Separately, the government set aside $50 billion to deal with many of AIG's distressed assets.
