     Just when I was getting the hang of eating this way.But I bought some groceries today and I look forward to getting back to my usual ways tomorrow. Tonight, though, I went out with a bang. I burned my spinach. Hours later I'm still trying to air out the smell but I suspect I will go to sleep with a reminder of how I failed my final test. If I had no option of eating anything else and I was at the end of my food and I burned up the last of it - the frustration would be intense.I survived with the help of coupons and carry overs so I had a bit of food left over. Half a bag of whole wheat pasta, two bread ends and most of a jar of peanut butter. If I hadn't had those freebies and cheated at lunch one day I would have eaten the remaining bread and noodles with peanut butter. Hey - Thai! Holding on to some positive thinking would be necessary for survival, I'd think.But I ate almost everything I purchased for my $21.91 including half the pasta, a small carton (2 cups) of tomato sauce, a bag of frozen spinach, a loaf of bread, a dozen eggs, six packets of ramen, a quart of yogurt, a bag of frozen strawberries, half a gallon of orange juice, a bundle of green onions, 1 head of baby bok choy, 1/2 cup brown rice, 1/4 lb black beans, 1/2 yellow onion, 3 bananas, 2 apples and several tablespoons of peanut butter. Written out like that it sounds like a lot more than it felt like.Without a doubt my awareness has been raised by this challenge in a visceral way. Perhaps the things that I've most realized is that the planning required is exhausting and the monotony is crushing. Eating healthy and getting sufficient nutrients and fiber is difficult at best.Most of all, I get that I don't get it. I cannot really understand all the weight of dealing with this day in - day out. And add in feeding a family - that I really cannot wrap my mind around.I end this challenged in immense gratitude for the blessings of my life and renewed in my commitment to work to end hunger. I hope you'll share that goal with me. Please consider donating time or money or blogging the issue - a few considerations:San Francisco Food BankAlameda County Community Food BankFeeding AmericaShare Our Strength    
