We all know how important reviews are to authors, but as a reader, they can be just as important. Readers check out reviews in order to get info on a title before they buy it.Another great place for authors and readers to get/read reviews is Christian Review of Books.I found out about the site through fellow author, Julie Lessman's website and immediately contacted Roseanna White to not only get my books reviewed but to share information with you all about this great website!Here is what Roseanna said about how CRoB came about....It came to us sitting in a restaurant almost five years ago, talking about a best-selling novel: there needed to be a site dedicated to reviewing books from the Christian perspective. At the time, there were none. So in typical us-fashion, my husband David and I decided to fill the hole we saw, and we launched the Christian Review of Books, CRoB for short.Our vision was to review books in all genres, fiction and nonfiction, mainstream and Christian, offering that perspective that comes from a core belief in the Lord. At first we reviewed what was on our own shelves, even buying some bestsellers. Then, as word about our site spread, we began receiving review materials from publicists, authors, and all the big CBA publishing houses. As our to-be-read stack grew, we opened our doors to other reviewers, amassing a staff of volunteers to share the burden and the joy. Over the years our reputation as a quality review site has brought us thousands of subscribers and also earned us a place as endorsers that appear on and in new releases.At the core, our work at the CRoB comes down to two things: passion and ministry. Passion for the written word that has shaped us into who we are, and a ministry to help readers know what is available to them and also to help authors promote the work of their hearts. It is our constant prayer that through our reviews, someone will pick up a book that will touch them. If we achieve that, then we have done our job.Authors and Readers check out CRoB for your next book!Until later...take care and God Bless!PamT
