Having not heard back from Suntrust, I was more than obliged to interview today with Banc of America Investments (Bank of America's tiny investment division).  If I don't land this job, my perception of people is oddly and grossly way the hell off.  Despite having my interview in two parts (because the interviewer had to jump on a conference call), I really felt good about it.  I was intentionally resilient through his being 30 minutes late AND his conference call.  He thanked me profusely.  When someone starts asking you when you're available to start, that's usually a good sign, right?  This is an incredible opportunity, even though I'd have to take the metro there (the office is in Brickell). The irony is that the position is based out of the same office where Suzi's former advisor works.  Translation:  I could end up working with/for her.  Uh, weird much?  Especially since Suzi's funds will likely be coming back through the BofA channel.  Oh life, how strange and essentially ridiculous thou art.Car update:  Still not sure about the origin of the aforementioned multiple scratches.  Had a wax/wash and it does, of course, look a bit better.  I still feel like there's a lot of cosmetic damage that wasn't there when I purchased it, but it's just a car.  And it has bigger problems;  newly squeaking breaks and a soft, flapping noise that is audible when the A/C is off.  Ugh.  Perhaps I should have continued my road quest in the Rolling Total.In other news, Jack is on vacation this week, but I never posted about #5 and #6.  I will... I swear.  Even if nobody's all that interested.My dog poodied on the floor twice this week.  I hope she's not reaching elderly, pooping dog stage.  I think she's about 13 now.Meanwhile, the rest of the house feels like a cat quarantine facility.  Fuzzy has an upper respiratory infection in one room, and Roma is in my room.  She doesn't like her medicine and routinely pukes about 1-2 hours after taking it.  When asked which puking surface she prefers, she has explicitly chosen the bed several times over(even though there are 999,000 tiles that would be much easier for her stupid humans to clean).  Skeeter and Tony are locked out (aka - they own the rest of the house) in the conundrum of it all.My Grandma's 84th birthday was Tuesday.  We didn't do anything - everyone (except her) is sick with a cold of some sort.  Alas, she was having "bathroom problems" that day and says wouldn't have gone anywhere anyway.  That is the first birthday in our family in a long time where health prevented us from celebrating life.I need sleep.  This cold has me licked.I feel like this is a bunch of jumbledupgarble.  Marbles might be more fun.
