    Agency Fights Building Code Born of 9/11 - NYTimes.comA new building code is being proposed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, for skyscrapers over 75 floors. Among the improvements recommended are an additional stairwell, heavier fireproofing, and the ability to withstand over 1000-lbs of impact.Even the federal government, via the General Services Administration, is complaining. Private entities will lose square footage by adding the extra stairwell. Thicker beams will probably be added, thus reducing more height space. Heavier fireproofing will increase material cost also.The proposed improvement does have positive points. The recommendations revolve around preventing a disaster of 9/11 magnitude. Some improvements already installed in the Twin Towers helped inmensely during evacuation. Loss of electrical power left the building in darkness. The stairs, however, had fluorescent strips in the emergency stairwells and exits. It turns out that fireproofing doesn't always stick well when the metal is heated. Adhesiveness is important in providing material with a higher melting point than steel. External heat must pass the fireproofing sand. The additional stairwell is necessary because emergency personnel and the public met in the stairwell, thus forming a jam. The extra stairwell would be for emergency personnel, although I think they would use all stairwells first and then move on to that one.Some of the new buildings in Times Square already have the improvements. The new Bank of America building on 6th Ave has the wider stairwells and luminous strips in the stairwells. I don't know about the fireproofing. I think it was just a standard layer. It is sprayed onto the beams and it doesn't form an uniformly thick layer because it is applied after installing the beams, and these arrive uncoated.Skyscrapers are practically all new construction in New York City and in virtually most places. Cost control is paramount. The Chinese just had an earthquake recently that toppled a whole city. The people blame cheap, shoddy construction. What we have learned from 9/11 is that a fire that cannot be put out timely is a skyscrapers worst enemy. without this immenese jet fuel fire, the WTC whould have looked like a skeleton and have never toppled. Fireproofing answers the fire hazard question. I think THAT should be paramount--a very thick layer of fireproofing. I think having a main water sprinkler pipe into the building with external pumps should also be included. In any event, fire is the killer.  Tags: building, code, wtc, september, 11, nist, gsa  
