  (Picture is a plug in for the Race for the Cure this weekend!) I can't believe women miss this event...its amazing, emotional, and this disease touches every person.  Shame on you for not going and I say that lovingly of course.  The Real PostPeople never cease to amaze me. Two entirely seperate incidents have occurred recently that I felt blog worthy because it was hysterical to us.First incident: At lunch me, my mom, and sister stopped at one of the many Bank of America locations for my mom to make a deposit with a withdrawal. This of course requires either going in or thru the drive up. We always choose the drive up because we are that lazy. My sister is driving and she gets the tube deal out to put in the deposit, sends it to the bank teller, and waits. They never said "Hello, welcome to Bank of America"...nothing was said. The teller takes care of the transcation and the tube comes back. Liz gets the tube and gives mom all the stuff then we get ready to drive off. The bank teller says "Have a nice day" and my sister said nothing back. So when we are pulling away from the speaker the teller says "I SAID HAVE A NICE DAY"!It was unexpected, we never answered her back since it shocked us, but it has provided many laughs since.Second incident: My mom wanted a sausage biscuit from Burger King on our way in to work. It wasn't busy so we did the drive up because its normally much quicker. She orders her biscuit and pulls up to the first window. There is a lady from an ethnic group taking the money (yeah I know not politically correct...blah blah blah)...The biscuit was $1.10 and my mom had two 1 dollar bills. The lady says "What you no have 10 cents"?If my mom had a dime she would have given it to her to begin with and was it any of her business what we gave her? The lady went on to say "I no believe you have no 10 cents". I could not keep myself from laughing and my mom was shushing me because it was making her tickled. We got the hairy eyeball from the lady who I know thought we were rude for laughing, but wasn't she the rude one for demanding 10 cents?Amazing.  
