No, it's not Harris's fault Magloire fell off the face of the earth for some reason after the Bucks traded for him.  He didn't have a history of any leg or ankle injuries, was only 27, and had recently shot fg's and ft's at a very good percentage for a center.  There's no reason Harris should be judged for Magloire's failings because there was really no way to anticipate it - it came completely out of left field, unlike RJ's decline which has been steadily progressing for years now.  It's also not Harris's fault that Simmons developed an injury that basically torpedoed his career.  There wasn't much reason to doubt that he would be a very solid starting sf for the duration of his contract.  Do I even have to defend him for drafting Bogut?  Pretty much any other team in the league would have done that, and it was hard to project how effective Bogut would be in the pros.  But he had to make that pick.  I don't blame him at all, and I think most of you would do the same thing.  Turns out Bogut is not nearly a guy worthy of a #1 pick, but that's hindsight.  It's not fair to say Harris should have anticipated that because there was no indication it would happen.  Redd was a good re-signing.  Everybody has to overpay for their unrestricted fa's, and the Bucks had to make absolutely sure they retained Redd so they could use the CBA to their advantage, signing a solid starter while Redd's cap number was low and then re-signing him.  Was he overpaid?  Yes.  Would any reasonable Bucks fan rather he signed for 5/$70 with Cleveland and leave the Bucks holding the bag?  I don't think so.  Besides, Redd was very tradeable during the first few years of his contract, so it's not like Harris stuck the Bucks with him until he held on to him for too long.  Holding on to him too long was his mistake, but signing him definitely was not.  Even Gadzuric was probably worth it at the time, except that Harris failed to let the market establish his value.  A minor error considering how well Harris positioned the team that offseason, and while it is still hurting the Bucks now it didn't have to be that way.  If Harris had acknowledged that his plan wasn't working he could have unloaded Gadz early in that contract.  In short, I'm not saying Harris was a good gm by any means.  He was a complete moron for trying to salvage a plan that wasn't working for a variety of reasons, many of which weren't his fault.  All I'm saying is that he had showed some real insight into the art of rebuilding and giving your team a chance to be special, instead of just being mediocre.  I want Hammond to do the same thing.
