Just an amusing story I have to tell about possibly the thickest warrior I think I have ever met.     Was late last saturday night and me and a couple of guildies fancied a heroic. We had myself (prot warrior), a pally healer, boomkin and a hunter and we decided we would go to utg pinnacle.      As there was only the 4 of us we needed to PuG a DPS and within seconds of me putting out a shout in dalaran a warrior /w me saying he wanted to come. I invited him, we all did the mandatory "hi" "hey" "yo" and made our way to the instance. All except the new warrior.     Now I dont know about anyone else but one of, if not my biggest pet hate in wow, is lazy people who cba to make thier own way to the summoning stone and always expect a summon. Especially if all they are doing is being stood in dalaran.     No problem though, for all I know this guy is using the loo, grabbing a coffee, putting his child to bed. You never know what someone else is up to. So us 4 are at the stone and I'm about to start summoning the warrior when I notice he is full of rage and has about half health... Strange for someone stood around in Dalaran. Apart from the fact he isn't in Dalaran. He in a bloody PvP battle ground!!      So as group leader I said in group chat something along the lines of "Eer dude we're all here at the stone now mate, about to summon you"      No answer, so we start the summon. We wait, expecting to see the warrior appear any second. Nope. Doesn't happen.  Then his health starts going down again and his rage goes up, so we assume he is in combat, he'll join us in a second. Again, nope. One of my guildies says in party chat "dude we're gonna summon you again, please accept, you did know we were on our way here, you shouldn't really have joined a BG"     Yet again no answer and the summon is ignored. "Ok no problem, I'll kick and replace then" I said in party. Just then the warrior finally pipes up with "No don't kick, I'm coming in a sec"      5 mins we wait for this guy to finish his BG (I know, stupid us, we should have kicked and replaced, but I guess we were too lenient) So were just inside and we're all buffing up and getting ready and I just spam my macro for the new guy. Skull - 1st kill  Cross - 2nd kill  star - 3rd kill  Stick to kill order!!     Just then the warrior pipes up with "I dont have time for that, just nuke everything, I dont wanna be here all day." Now this guy must have caught me on a bloody good day, because normally he would've been kicked by now, especially after his previuos show of making us all wait for him, without even a thank you.      We start. I'm marking the mobs and we're sailing through them easily and quickly, we're all well geared. All except the warrior that is.. Then the warrior starts ninja pulling. We would be half way through a group of mobs and the warrior would run off and shoot another group over to us.. Not an issue, we're geared enought to cope, so I take the agg and tank all while the rest DPS them down.     Were all chatting on TS about the crazy suicidal warrior while we all rec up, having a giggle about it, when before you know it he pulls another group onto us, half health and stuff. "What the F**K is this crazy guy doing" and things similar were echoing down TS as we all laughed. Again, I took agg and we handled the situation fairly easily. Then I said in party chat " Dude please leave the pulling to me buddy, wait till we're all full health and stuff and I'll pull from there"      The warrior comes back with "But this is going so slow, come on, heroics shouldnt take this long" Now I've done my fair share of heroics and this was by no means slow at all, we were flying through. The healer made the comment that if the warrior was actually doing any DPS we would be goin faster. We carried on. We downed the boss with multiple mobs, just before the gauntlet and we all sit to drink again. The warrior hasn't been here before so I start to explain whats gonna happen. As that happens, the healer says "quick AFK, brb 2mins" whilst tellin me over ts he just gettin a drink.      The warrior says "I don't care what happens, I'll see what happens when we do it, I'm a quick learner"... At that he runs through the door and makes his way up the corridor..      We all start pissing ourselves over Ts and decide not to follow him. We are healerless at the mo and he knew this, so his death is his own fault. Thats when the abuse starts. He launches into a verbal assault the likes have rarely been seen. We're all wa***rs, to***rs, anything offensiv, that was us. We were all obsolutely creasing up now over vent, tears were running down my face.      "You know I dont have long and you stop to eat all the time, slowing us down blah blah blah"...      I kicked him and replaced with a guildie and we finished the run with no problems.     What I wanna say is this though.   1. If you know your going to a heroic, dont join a BG and make people wait for you.      2. Try and at least use some manners, your not in that place on your own.     3. If you don't have time to run the instance, don't join it!      4. Oh and don't try to tank when your DPS spec in sh*tty blue and green quest items!!      Am I wrong? Do you guys meet muppets like this or do I just attract them? I'd love to hear any similar stories you guys have of blatant muppety in groups :) 
