 Entrepreneurs often get so lost in the daily management of their businesses that they forget the companys aim. It is at this point that they must remind themselves that the objective of business is to maximise income to achieve full realisation of the companys value.Businesses are commodities, says Derek Tool, CEO of Dawn. You sell them as assets and get a return. You then invest in another direction that is more attractive at the time.In a typical business lifecycle, the business is acquired or formed and built to fruition over a period of years. It then reaches a point at which growth plateaus. It is at this point that companies need to create additional income streams. The more income streams that are created, the more the business is worth, according to Glenn Geldenhuis, the chief executive of Dawn Manufacturing, whose portfolio includes companies such as Cobra Watertech, DPI Plastics, Isca, Vaal Sanitaryware, Libra Baths, Sangio Pipe and Lashes Tools.1. DiversificationIf you spearhead your product base into a certain market and you then broaden that base, you can use the existing clientele to broaden your income stream, says Geldenhuis. A typical example of this is Coca-Cola, which provided Coke for over 100 years, but now sells Fanta, Sprite and bottled water.2. Acquisitions, mergers and joint venturesAn acquisition is another method of creating an additional income stream. The UK-based bank Barclays bought into Absa and now participates in the South African market. Mergers and joint ventures are also ways of gaining access to further income streams. If you merge or undertake a joint venture with a company that has a different product range or geographical location, you share their market.3. Backward integrationBackward integration is the practice of buying into manufacturing concerns to support your front end. You purchase the suppliers of products that you have already been distributing, thereby participating in the trading margin as well as the manufacturing margin. An example of this would be a publishing house that buys into a printing company.4. StreamliningWhat simpler way to increase income than within your own business? says Geldenhuis. Many companies have departments that are written off as a cost. These departments can often be turned from cost centres into profit centres.Traditionally marketing departments run at a cost, which is not measured. Why not turn this department into an income centre where the exact return of that department is balanced against the cost of running it. You then have greater income from within.5. Geographical spreadThis is where you take your existing model and duplicate it in other geographical areas. There is an advantage in economies of scale, because there are certain core resources which will not need to be duplicated. With this you improve your risk profile, because it is no longer dependent on one area. McDonalds is a very good example of a company that has duplicated its existing model successfully in different geographical areas around the world.6. TechnologyIf you can use technology to reduce your production costs, you are increasing your income. DPI Plastics uses technology to reduce the cost of production of its pipes and the saving goes directly towards the bottom line.7. New product rangesWhy not bring in new innovative products to your offering to differentiate yourself and create further income streams? However, if you step into another distribution channel, you should have successfully explored the existing one to its conclusion.The problem with going into too many new industries is that your attention to every product becomes shallower. The narrower you are and the deeper you are, the better your economies of scale and your ability to manage. Diversified conglomerates have a tendency to allow new product ranges to get out of control. At one point 3M was manufacturing 55000 different products. There is a natural correction for this, however, and that is when companies unbundle.SAB used to be involved in the distribution of fruit juices and the like. It made the decision to stick to core business and subsequently reduced its cost base, and focused on its core business of beer. It is now the biggest brewery in the world.How it is done at DPI PlasticsDPI Plastics is a plastics, pipe and fitting company. It has been very successful in creating income streams to increase the value of its business. It has done this through geographical spread by expanding into other African countries  not only through exports, but also through joint venture operations.
