 JOHN Stewart's tenure as chief executive of NAB might well end at the conclusion of today's board meeting. But that should not camouflage his four years of remarkable achievement.NAB chairman Michael Chaney appears to have pushed the pedal to the metal on succession-planning in the wake of Friday's market-shocking $830 million provisions, and Stewart may come to be known as Australia's most senior executive casualty of the credit crunch. But appearances can be deceiving. Not all here as simple as it looks. The fact is that last week, NAB was ready to roll out a six-month succession plan for Stewart. It is also a fact that Stewart pulled the trigger on retirement well before last Friday's share-price-crunching provisioning. Indeed, there is a very sustainable view that it was Stewart's time-frame for departure that triggered the provisioning, rather than the other way around. Stewart himself observed that he did not want the provisions dribbling out over the next 24 months or to be left to his successor. What seems to have changed since last week is that timetable. The feeling is that Stewart's departure is imminent -- that the six-month handover might be condensed. And that, as reported in The Australian yesterday, New Zealand-based boss Cameron Clyne is to succeed him. Mind you, as right as The Australian was yesterday, there was much that was wrong. The suggestion that Stewart had failed to live up the the bank's hype is unfounded and unfair, as is any idea delivered in a headline that Clyne is somehow Stewart's rival. It was Stewart who hired the academically acute Clyne in August 2004 as part of a general broadening of NAB's executive gene pool. Stewart subsequently mentored Clyne in the dark arts of banking and then gave him the top job in New Zealand before ultimately calling him out as a leading internal candidate in the succession race. And what of questions about Stewart's contribution to NAB? Well, no one would disagree that Stewart has been caught out by a series of rapid shifts in the tectonics of global banking. And yes, conduits that were rated AAA assets as recently as Christmas and looked still sound in May are now very suddenly worthless. Which means $1.2 billion of synthetic exposures to the US property market are currently carried on NAB's books at $160 million. But Stewart insists that Friday's provisioning reflects unavoidable global circumstances rather than gaps in his personal banking acumen or broader failings within the NAB organisation or its culture. Stewart says the CDO problem is unlike any of the suite of crises that blighted the bank ahead of his appointment. There was no failing in operational process or internal information flows. And if anyone should be able to spot the differences, it would be Stewart. He was delivered into crisis when Frank Cicutto belatedly quit after four young forex traders racked up $360 million worth of losses from unapproved trading. Cicutto should probably have resigned after the earlier $4 billion writedowns on NAB's US mortgage adventure HomeSide. Within a month of Stewart's appointment, the NAB board went to war with itself as tension over the forex debacle exploded, revealing an unsustainable schism between new chairman Graeme Kraehe and director Catherine Walter. Stewart weathered those tough times, and in the subsequent 36 months he has revitalised a broken culture. He has spent time and capital on identifying and promoting NAB's top 150 managers as part of an attempt to establish new openness throughout the bank and emphasising along the way the rewards that would flow to those who reported failures rather than hid them. Stewart has re-polished NAB's tainted brands, created a credible, market-leading British bank from assets previously regarded as little more than a NAB training ground and delivered real momentum to the bank's profit. In 2004, NAB made a profit pre-provisions of $3.1 billion. It is expected to make more than $4.2 billion this year. The merger maze GIVEN the bloodbath in global banking you would have to believe that the St George Bank board re-endorsed its recommendation for the Westpac takeover offer during the two-day meeting that ended yesterday afternoon. That being the case, some are hoping that St George's bravely prescient chairman, John Curtis, availed himself of the opportunity to deliver a new, and very simple, song-sheet to his chief executive, Paul Fegan. Remember here that Fegan is a director of St George and, after a fateful weekend's review, the bank board unanimously decided to recommend Westpac's 1.3-for-1 offer terms. The point to appreciate here is that there is no break fee in this deal. Which means that the quietly impressive Curtis has delivered St George shareholders with a huge put option on the bank. Given the stars stay in alignment, the deal makes a lot of sense (St George has consistently traded at a discount to the offer over recent weeks). And that is why reports of Fegan's ambivalence towards the merger, which have surfaced consistently over recent times, have some wondering just what is going on. So where does Fegan stand? Fegan and his supporters maintain that some comments have been over-analysed and misinterpreted and Fegan himself insists his support for Westpac's Project York is as certain as it was on May 28. Ambivalence, he says, is not his long suit. Still, there remains concern, particularly among the ranks of the Westpac deal team, that Fegan has left plenty of room for misunderstanding in his public observations of the logic, value and certainty of the merger. There is probably merit on both sides of the merger fence. Westpac would prefer that Fegan was more aggressively selling the merger terms. But Fegan does not quite see that as his job. Rather, he is about selling the merits of his bank to his customers, shareholders and creditors. Team Fegan says the boss has merely been representing the operational interests of his bank. And that necessarily involves debunking the laziest selling point of the merger, namely that the credit squeeze has left the A-rated St George with fundamental funding problems. No, says Fegan, there are no funding issues. Yes, there are many major benefits to be wrought from the merger but the cost of funding is not necessarily one of them. Fegan pays the same price as the majors for 50 per cent of his funding, which is bank deposits, and he pays less than 10 basis points over the majors' odds in the short-term market. It is only in the term market that the A- rated banks are being hit hard. There St George has paid 34 basis points more than Australia AA-rated banks and that is clearly a material difference. But term funding makes up only 20 per cent of his funding mix and, anyway, St George's lowest cost base means it can absorb them with relative comfort. At least, that is Fegan's mantra. Mind you, he -- like the rest of the board -- is determined to recommend the offer to his owners. 
