 MORTGAGE stress levels in Australia are tipped to reach more than 1 million homes by December, amid dire predictions that more than 53,000 jobs will disappear from small- to medium-sized businesses.The gloomy outlook was revealed in the latest JPMorgan/Fujitsu Consulting report, which said that unemployment in Australia's small- to medium-sized enterprises would rise by 0.5 per cent by December, translating into 53,527 job losses. As businesses face declining sales and rising costs, 'they may be forced to cut variable costs such as the 45 per cent of the workforce that are employed on a part-time basis in currently pressured sectors such as retail and hospitality', warned JPMorgan analyst Brian Johnson. His message came with a warning that Australian banks could be entering a loan loss cycle not seen since the 1990s -- more casualties from the global credit crunch, further interest rate rises from the banks beyond any central bank movement and some fee increases, in areas such as loan applications. SME business confidence fell the hardest in NSW at 18 per cent, followed by Victoria and Tasmania. Confidence in the booming states of Western Australia and Queensland was up 3 and 2 per cent respectively. Factoring all of the 0.5 per cent increase in unemployment, Fujitsu is predicting 1.055 million Australians will be in mortgage stress by December. Against this backdrop is the spiralling credit card debt. Mr Johnson said: 'The banks are still giving out a lot of easy credit through zero balance transfer credit cards, which is probably still disguising a lot of the apparent mortgage stress that's out there.' He also criticised the zero balance transfer credit card product. 'Not charging interest on a credit card, when your own cost of funds has gone up, looks like a pretty silly strategy,' he said. 'One of the catalysts for the global credit crisis was basically banks in the United States pulling back from these zero balance transfer credit cards.' The Commonwealth Bank is the only bank in Australia not to offer that type of product. And while the Australian banks claim to be comfortable with their asset quality, Mr Johnson said only a small movement in the loan loss charge was required to have a big impact on earnings. 'There's a reason why they call Australia the lucky country, that's because we have the most optimistic people in the world,' he said. Mr Johnson said loan losses had been low for so long and local banks were geared 'very highly compared to global peers' at 25-30 times versus 15-20 times. 'We haven't seen a loan loss cycle since the early 90s ... and I think that created a perception that there's absolutely no problem on the asset quality front, which I think is a little bit naive,' he said. 'Personally, I still think the valuations look stretched and the earnings risk is rising.' Fujitsu's Martin North said: 'There are some disruptive factors here that people have yet to fully comprehend.' But it's the plunging business confidence and borrowing intentions of the SMEs that paint a grim picture for lenders battling for market share and profitability, the report said. 
