 CONSENSUS opinion was that global financial conditions had bottomed in April with the Bear Stearns bailout but, the trouble is, it's been steadily downhill ever since. It's not quite in freefall but yesterday's rate rise from the Commonwealth and ANZ banks underlines the fact that credit conditions are not getting any easier.Bank of Queensland's David Liddy at the same time is facing outright war from disaffected present and former NSW franchisees suffering the combined effect of a slow state economy, higher debt funding costs and lower commission revenues leaving them stranded when stuck with fixed staff costs. The bank declined to comment on the issue amid ongoing litigation but clearly some branches are doing better than others. The US market is at fever pitch worrying about the financial condition of two credit agencies known as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which effectively house some 50 per cent of all US mortgages. Neither are officially US government-backed but everyone has assumed, given they can borrow from the US Fed at bargain rates, that they are as good as government guaranteed. While their stock prices are down some 80 per cent this year to their lowest levels in 16 years and the doyen of the US bond market Bill Gross is buying their bonds with his ears laid back. He confided to The Wall Street Journal that there was no chance of either Fannie or Freddie failing because a default 'would set off a firestorm of intolerable proportions'. Both are looking through their options with US Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson et al at their side along with his his old firm, Goldman Sachs. In short, the credit crisis is still with us and, so long as oil prices are rising, the policy options are getting harder by the day. CBA's Ralph Norris effectively opened the door for all the big banks to raise rates because, as the market leader, it has provided cover with its 14 basis point increase. The ANZ followed soon after and NAB and Westpac will next week. The latter will be of some interest because it was pleased to make a noise about St George's 20 basis point increase last week, citing it as a sign of weakness. If its takeover maestro, Rob Whitfield, sees it as such, his division heads are probably looking at the CBA move from a different perspective because they too want to report profits this year. Westpac has gone on the front foot in recent days after St George boss Paul Fegan stated the obvious in an interview -- that the takeover was a long way from finished. But if, as expected, Westpac raises its rates, that line of attack will collapse and in any case the battle only really starts after July 30 when the ACCC opines on the issue. In February, Norris said the bank lost $100million in the December half because funding costs were higher than his own charges. While bank bill spreads have narrowed, the banks are being hit by higher borrowing costs both domestically and offshore. It's one thing to restore your balance sheets but banks are in the business of lending money so the next course of action is to tap debt markets to get back to business. ANZ on Thursday paid 312 basis points above bank rates on a five-year, $2 billion New Zealand debt issue that was some 107 basis points above the rate paid by NAB a month ago. Granted, there is a Kiwi subsidiary discount, but the facts are that not only is the credit crunch a long way from finished, it's not getting any easier. For the Australian banks, the comforting fact is the credit markets have sidelined competitors, giving them more flexibility which allows CBA's Norris to raise rates by more than twice the 50 basis point increase in official rates this year and lead his rivals with a mortgage rate of 9.58 per cent. Watching Wall Street tremble at what may happen to Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, Treasurer Wayne Swan can pat himself on the back for not backing a similar form of government-backed bonds as sought by the likes of Challenger. Conroy demands fibre input TOWARDS the end of the next week, Communications Minister Stephen Conroy will use his newly won powers to demand that Telstra provide the relevant information for the proposed new fibre network. Telstra first submitted its network map to Conroy's department in early June but, while nothing is being said officially, the reality is that the information is grossly deficient. In true Telstra style, the network map has become another means to play games, delaying the start date of the fibre build and at the same time jumping up and down saying the country needs a fibre network. Such hypocrisy is class Telstra regulation politics, with two aims -- delaying change and creating uncertainty in the minds of opponents. Conroy puts some amendments into the Telecommunications Act a month or so back to lay down the process for the fibre network tender process including a provision giving the minister power to demand data. Clearly this is a last resort but it seems Conroy's department hasn't had any luck getting the data, and unless conditions change then Conroy will make his landmark change by actually directing the incumbent telco to play ball. Tenders for the network were originally due to be lodged by July 25 but Conroy has since said he would give rivals three months after Telstra provides the data to lodge proposals. This means at best the tender won't happen until mid October. If Telstra thinks it is playing smart politics by running Conroy up against his election commitment to provide minimum 12 megabit internet speeds across the country, it forgets he earned his stripes in machine politics. The fact is, much of the country already gets 12 megabits so he has already met his commitment. Then there is national interest and dare one say competitive advantage which demands the construction of a fibre network. Sometime in the next 12 months there will be more data transferred on wireless devices than voice so demographics suggest the young and tech savvy are happy with wireless. Still, some 40 billion minutes of voice travel over fixed lines each year against 20 billion minutes on wireless tells you that the incumbent Telstra has something to protect. Recommendations for proposed regulations governing the fibre network were lodged by the June 25 deadline, with 82 submissions lodged and 81 arguing for a range of different forms of structural separation. This means splitting Telstra's wholesale and retail networks and the only one opposing the split was Telstra. While Conroy cut his teeth in factional wars his patience should be running out by now because Telstra is making him look a bit silly. This explains why he will draw a line in the sand in the next weeks unless the incumbent changes its spots in a hurry. Optus meanwhile is ramping up its wireless network build with plans to spend $250 million or so over the next two to three years to maximise coverage and increase speeds. Defence best for attack OOOPS, this column covered only part of the story yesterday in clarifying the position of UBS in the family affair deal which saw GPT shed its best retail assets to Westfield and fund Babcock &amp;amp; Brown's expansion in a so called joint venture to add some sparkle and gain independence from lend Lease. UBS advised Stockland in its failed bid for GPT three years ago. It is now advising the company on its defence options in the event of an attack. Over the past three years, Stockland has provided returns of 5.1 per cent against the market's 25.2 per cent and GPT's negative 31.7 per cent. Over the past week, GPT has fallen 36.6 per cent and has been the biggest negative contributor to the index accounting for negative 9.2 points, with ANZ next at 7.6 points and Stockland and Westfield not far behind at over five points apiece. Have John Durie sent direct to your inbox with our daily Business Briefing newsletter. To subscribe, go to www.theaustralian.com.au/business 
