 POSSIBLY the most important aspect of Premier Investment's announcement yesterday of an 'enhanced and final' offer for Just Group was the claim by Premier chairman Solomon Lew in a press conference that some major holders had indicated they would accept the bid.If that's the case, it's surprising that Premier didn't highlight that fact in its press release, particularly as it urged target holders to accept immediately. Premier started with its foot on 23.7 per cent, which is owned by the Lew family companies Metrepark and Springsand, and which have indicated they intend to accept if that would enable Premier to acquire unconditionally more than 50 per cent of the apparel company. Premier's bid has been with Just shareholders for more than two months but to date has gained no traction, with acceptances for a mere 1.1 per cent. It seems apparent that many shareholders are reluctant to take scrip in Premier as it would still be controlled by Lew, who has a controversial history on corporate governance issues. If major holders have flagged acceptance, that would put Premier well on the way to satisfying its minimum acceptance condition of 50.1 per cent, and may well influence retail and smaller institutional holders to accept. It would therefore appear to be in Premier's interest to stress the foreshadowed acceptances by major holders, but there was no mention of that in either the press release or the more extensive presentation by Premier. It was left to Lew to volunteer this information. It may be that Premier was mindful of the Australian Security and Investment Commission's requirement that a company claiming that parties intended to accept needed to have obtained their consent and may well be required to identify them. Lew yesterday refused to identify the potential accepters. The key question, of course, is how major are the shareholders in question. The two largest shareholders are Axa Asia-Pacific, with 12 per cent of Just, and Barclays Global Investors with 9 per cent. If both were to accept, that would give Premier 45 per cent of Just, within spitting distance of majority ownership and outright control. If it is other institutional holders that Lew was talking about, the initial boost to acceptances may be lower. One holder expected to accept is Perpetual, which holds more than 5 per cent of Just. It may also include some hedge funds, which are thought to own between 5 per cent and 10 per cent of Just. There's little doubt that Just's shareholder loyalty has been tested by its about-face when it did a backflip and downgraded its earnings forecast for 2008 only a month after the earlier forecast had been made. At the time, Premier implied that it was considering walking away. Instead, it talked to institutional holders and found that some may be prepared to accept, but only if the offer price was increased. So Premier announced an increase of 15c a share in the cash component of its bid. Just holders are still being offered 0.25 Premier shares for each Just share, plus $2.245 cash, rather than the earlier $2.095 cash. Based on Premier's current market price of $7.10 a share, the increase values Just shares at $4.02. There's a rub, however: the increase is only payable if Premier increases its relevant interest in Just to at least 90 per cent. Premier's bid is scheduled to close on August 15, which means it has to state on August 7 whether it intends to extend, go unconditional, or do nothing and allow the bid to close on the scheduled date. Premier said yesterday it intended to provide an institutional acceptance facility and if it had a relevant interest (including facility instructions) of more than 50 per cent by 7pm on August 6 it would immediately declare the offer unconditional. If not, the bid would close on August 15. These measures are obviously designed to put pressure on Just holders to accept. However, accepting holders run the risk that if they accept Premier may attain more than 50 per cent of Just, which will lock them into the Premier offer, but the bidder fails to reach 90 per cent they will not have achieved any increase on the current base offer price. Just directors seized on that point yesterday, stating that the core offer had not improved and there was no certainty that any additional consideration would be payable. The target board advised holders to take no action pending a recommendation, adding that July sales were pleasing and promising a sales update soon. Premier would normally be able to declare its bid unconditional at less than 50 per cent, and to unilaterally increase the bid by the 15c a share cash by waiving the 90 per cent requirement, but those options would no longer be available under ASIC's truth in takeovers policy. Thus any increase will only be possible if Premier attains 90 per cent of Just. Moreover, if Premier obtains more than 50 per cent but less than 80 per cent, accepting holders would not only miss out on the additional 15c a share, but would be liable for capital gains tax on the cash component of the offer. It's possible that Premier may fall short of 50 per cent by the August 6 deadline but reach that target within the final week of the offer, in which case it would face a statutory requirement to extend the bid for at least two weeks. If that happens the clock starts again and it could continue to extend the offer in an attempt to satisfy the compulsory acceptance threshold to enable it to obtain full ownership of Just. Alternatively, Premier could decline to waive its other bid conditions and allow the offer to close at the end of the statutory two-week extension. Just's share price had fallen from $3.18 at the time of the profit downgrade to as low as $2.72 and was at $2.91 before Premier announced its revised bid terms. Premier claimed yesterday that in the absence of its offer Just's shares could fall even further, but there has been a disconnect between the Just share price and the Premier offer. Just's share price has been so far below the value of the Premier offer that it seems clear investors had been giving Premier no chance of succeeding. That gap narrowed somewhat after yesterday's announcement, with Just's share price jumping 38c, or 13 per cent, to $3.29. However, that's still 7c, or 18 per cent, below the value of the Premier offer. On the face of it, Premier's chances of winning control of Just have improved considerably but investors will be closely watching for acceptances over the next week to ascertain whether Just shareholders also see it that way. bfrith@acenet.com.au 
