 WITH Westpac preoccupied with its proposed St George Bank takeover, Commonwealth Bank has been touted as the best prospect to acquire HBOS Australia for $8.7 billion and reap the benefits of a heavy exposure to the fast-growing West Australian economy.HBOSA's Edinburgh-based parent has been hit hard by rising bad debts and is trying to rebuild its capital base through a 4 billion pound ($8.3 billion) rights issue at 275p, while under a short-selling attack by the $US20 billion ($20.8 billion) hedge fund Harbinger Capital. The parent's chief executive, Andy Hornby, has said HBOSA is not for sale, and the bank must stick to that pledge while it has an issue prospectus in the market. Furthermore, if the capital raising succeeds, the pressure for asset sales will subside. But in a report yesterday, Deutsche Bank banking analyst Ross Brown said the sale of HBOSA, which would pose a significant integration challenge for the acquirer, could not be ruled out 'at some future point'. National Australia Bank representatives reportedly met with advisory firms last month to discuss a possible bid. However, Mr Brown rated CBA as the only genuine major bank contender as its share price translates to a 15 per cent premium to its domestic rivals, based on projected 2008 earnings. 'In our view, CBA's premium rating leaves it potentially best positioned to acquire (HBOSA), although from an investor's perspective we believe this is a key reason for caution,' he said. 'As Westpac's recent experience has shown, a large in-market acquisition is often the catalyst for PE (price-earnings ratio, or share price divided by earnings per share) de-rating.' While the delicate position of HBOSA's parent makes an asset sale unlikely in the short term, CBA chief executive Ralph Norris would also need some convincing about the merits of a merger strategy. Mr Norris has expressed doubts about the track record of mergers in the financial services industry, viewing them as recipes for customer attrition unless both brands are maintained. Mr Brown, in his report, downplayed the prospects of both NAB and ANZ making a play for HBOSA, noting they had PE discounts of 9 per cent and 5 per cent respectively. He estimated a sale price of $8.7 billion for HBOSA, with a $7 billion equity raising required if CBA were to fund the purchase and maintain its capital ratios. The preferred option, he said, would be a discounted rights issue, similar to ANZ's $4.9 billion purchase of National Bank of New Zealand in 2003. Mr Brown said the purchase would initially dilute CBA's earnings per share, based on a rights issue at a 27 per cent discount to CBA's current share price. However, it would boost EPS by a forecast 1.5 per cent in the third year, assuming savings equal to one-quarter of HBOSA's cost base. That said, Mr Brown cautioned against what he called 'the winner's curse'. 'While we believe CBA's premium PE rating leaves it best positioned of the major banks to acquire, this is not necessarily a good thing from an investor's perspective,' he said. 'An acquisition the size of HBOSA would bring with it material integration risk, creating considerable uncertainty. 'We believe it is this uncertainty, combined with potential loss of market share and relative productivity, which has contributed to the de-rating of Westpac in the period since May when its merger with St George was announced.' 
