 SHARES in St George Bank are edging into alignment with the terms offered by suitor Westpac, with the target's premium now at its narrowest since the takeover was announced in May.Initially, the value of Westpac's offer of 1.31 of its own shares for each St George share represented a takeover premium of 28 per cent, but the market subsequently accorded the target a premium of up to 8percent over the implied bid price. The St George premium yesterday narrowed to only 1.6 per cent, after Westpac shares firmed 9c to $19.30 and St George eased 20c to $25.70. JPMorgan bank analyst Brian Johnson said it was unlikely that a rival bid would emerge to top Westpac's offer for St George. 'But it is by no means certain that the deal will go ahead,' he said. Scepticism in some quarters about the bid's prospects relate to the sharp decline in the value of the offer, set against St George's $750 million capital raising at $35 a share late last year. Other observers reject this argument, saying it might have some validity if Westpac had offered cash. However, the deal on the table was all scrip and market conditions had deteriorated since May, with credit spreads again blowing out after a more benign environment in March and April. 'The key question to ask is where St George shares would be now without the Westpac bid, and there is a sound argument they would be below $20,' one observer said. Westpac chairman Ted Evans and his opposite number at St George, John Curtis, chose their words carefully yesterday when communicating with shareholders. In a letter that addressed the bank's interim result and the Westpac offer, Mr Curtis said there was still 'some way to go' with the bid, including the need for government and regulatory approvals. Mr Curtis said the board intended to recommend the merger proposal subject to it remaining in the best interests of shareholders. 'This recommendation will also be subject to an independent expert's report confirming the proposal is in shareholders' best interests, and no superior proposal emerging,' he said. Mr Evans also made it clear in a shareholder newsletter that the deal was also contingent on the St George board 'continuing to hold the same view'. Westpac chief executive and former St George boss Gail Kelly said the merger implementation agreement had been signed on May 26, and both banks were now working on the next steps to implement the merger through a scheme of arrangement. 'Although there is a number of steps before the merger is approved, we are commencing detailed merger implementation and integration design and planning on a joint basis with St George,' she said. 'From a timing perspective, we expect the merger process to be completed within six months.' 
