 WESTPAC has appointed a former Commonwealth Bank executive and Multiplex chief to lead its technology operations as part of a large restructure of its consumer and business financial services divisions.On Monday, the bank will merge its customer-facing responsibilities across the consumer financial services (CFS) and business financial services (BFS) divisions, under the Westpac retail and business banking umbrella. It will be run by former BFS group executive Peter Hanlon. Additionally, a new group, products and operations, will be created to handle consumer and business product development, management and operations. Peter Clare, a close ally of Westpac chief and ex-St George head Gail Kelly, moves from his position as group executive, consumer financial services, to products and operations general manager. Westpac has closed the business technology solutions and services (BTSS) group, resulting in the departure of group executive Diane Sias, who leaves the bank in September. The restructure coincides with last week's departure of chief information officer Simon McNamara. However, a Westpac spokeswoman said this had been planned several months ago. In place of BTSS the bank has formed a technology division that will be led by former Commonwealth Bank chief information officer Bob McKinnon. Mr McKinnon led CBA's IT unit between 2000 and 2006. On January 16, 2006, he joined Multiplex as chief financial officer. He was then appointed joint managing director of Multiplex, before its acquisition in June by Canadian private equity player Brookfield Asset Management. A chartered accountant by training, Mr McKinnon has extensive financial and senior management experience. He has held senior positions with Lend Lease and National Australia Bank's MLC, apart from running State Street's operations in Australia. Mr McKinnon, Mr Clare and Mr Hanlon will sit on the Westpac executive team, which includes group chief transformation officer Brad Cooper. The changes are effective from July 21. Mr Clare said the restructure was the first step in CEO Gail Kelly's 2017 strategy to transform the bank from a product focused institution to customer focused. He said the restructure would deliver increased accountability for the affected businesses as well as clarity about their roles and responsibilities. 
