 PETER Joseph and his GPT team are deluding themselves if they think all its problems lay at the feet of its dumb Babcock &amp;amp; Brown deal and poor credit markets.The reality is that 30 years of conservative steady management lays in tatters today after three years of corporate stupidity. Yet the whole tenor of yesterday's briefing was one of a company caught in the global credit slump and in one deal that has failed to excite the market from day one. If it was as easy as that then arguably the market overreacted yesterday, but all of the above is symptomatic of a corporate culture gone wrong. The shareholders who have seen their returns slump 53 per cent in a year are consequently suffering badly. The company is alive but struggling and obviously at some point, if valuations are proved, may even offer some corporate appeal. But it won't be easy. At 37 years of age, GPT is the founding father of the Australian listed property sector and now the living textbook of what bad management produces. Three years ago, the company was the centre of a battle ground between its external manager, Lend Lease, and Stockland and the industry debate on the relative merits of internal versus external management. Without even getting into that debate, the bottom line is that management quality is the key ingredient. Yesterday's 30 per cent downgrade in distributions to 20c this year means shareholder returns will fall below 2003 levels. So much of Joseph's claims that the Babcock joint venture in 2005 was needed to add some sparkle to its earnings and distributions. Putting the BNB joint venture to one side for the moment, the GPT problem today is more an issue of disparate assets, some of which the company has no control over, and the underlying assets. One of those, last year's European acquisition Halverton, has gone from a profit maker to the tune of $26 million to a loss maker forecast at negative $15million in a matter of months. The picture emerges of a company that has moved into everything from management-intensive US aged care facilities, to poorly performing hotels with little in the way of a unifying theme. Just what, you may ask, is GPT? And if someone had an answer, it would be gratefully accepted and welcome news to shareholders, who have watched close to $2 billion in market value disappear since October and just yesterday were told this year's distributions will be 30 per cent below expectations. The Babcock deal is a joint venture with $2 billion in equity, 85 per cent of which was supplied by GPT, $5 billion in debt, and managed by Babcock. It was the sweetener thrown in by Joseph when he was trying to fend off Lend Lease's advances in 2005 to provide some 'sparkle' to GPT's earnings. The deal, it will be remembered, was approved by shareholders in part because Frank Lowy had a key stake in the company and was allowed to vote his shares in favour of GPT internalising its management. The same Frank Lowy benefited from the deal by also concluding deals to buy prime shopping centre sites from the company. Just some of the players in the deal shared office space in Investec's Sydney office. It has been downhill ever since, and even GPT boss Nic Lyons was at pains yesterday to stress that a key priority now will be to rid the company of the joint-venture, comprised of a collection of decidedly mixed European property dumped into the venture at a cost by BNB. Gearing levels at 46.8 per cent on a look-through basis are manageable, but the real key for Lyons and his chair Joseph is to tidy up the portfolio to create a semblance of structure in the empire.ASIC opens Hong Kong door ASIC has done its bit in yesterday's ground-breaking deal with the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission. The test now is whether investors will take up the opportunities. The deal allows Australian funds managers to market their wares in Hong Kong and vice versa, which is another welcome move in bringing Australia closer to the global investment market and certainly closer to China. The trick is to show that capital flows will actually increase. Official data is relatively mute in the field with the latest available information showing that in 2006 Hong Kong investors had $38 billion in assets in Australia and Australians $15 billion in Hong Kong. Just how much of this was in equities is not known. But the big plus for Australian fund managers is that while Australian retail punters are not big players in offshore equities, their Hong Kong comrades have over half their assets offshore. With Australian managers now allowed to get direct access to Hong Kong retail punters, they will be spruiking to a market already more open to offshore investments. Chimaera's inconvenient truth THE folk from Chimaera Capital are talking up quite a storm to mount their case against the ANZ, but sometimes missing a couple of facts. The first being that the firm was requiring $25million in capital to meet ASIC's capital adequacy requirements. This was partly why it was keen for the ANZ equity, which subsequently never came, and on the bank's request the firm's brokerage arm was put into receivership. Banks often prefer to get their loans repaid. Chimaera worked on what is called a prime broking model, which meant all its assets were operated under a single pool. The idea being that if you borrowed money from the firm to buy BHP shares you could get the money, so long as you agreed to Chimaera having total control over those shares. So, by way of example, you may borrow $32 to buy BHP at $39.97 a share but once the deal was done Chimaera could do what it wanted with the stock. Depending on the shares Chimaera would trade the BHP shares to buy something like ABC Learning. In time, when you wanted your BHP stock, the firm would have to back into the market to buy the shares, but hopefully only after having made a bucket load on the way through with its principal trading strategies. This required liquidity, as did its delta hedging strategies. Delta reflects the change in the value of the hedge relative to the value of underlying stocks, so a portfolio would be delta neutral is the value of the hedge and the underlying positions were the same. The position is managed through a combination of shorting, stock borrowing and options, all requiring liquidity. None of which were in abundance at Chimaera's broking arm. Punters went to Chimaera because it offered more leverage than was available elsewhere in what is arguably Australia's only global prime brokerage model. But just how many of these clients knew what happened to their stocks once they signed off the consents or knew what happened to the portfolio once inside the Chimaera vault is questionable. Suffice it to say that when ANZ started working through its exotic brokerage clients from Tricom, through to Opes and then Chimaera, it was also shocked to learn the facts. The Korda Mentha due diligence had been conducted since the start of May, so if the folk at Chimaera were surprised at its work they shouldn't have been. The firm has a full copy of the report with the exception of the recommendations. The whole saga has not painted the bank in a positive light, because it was either blind to or ignorant of the inherent risks being taken by its clients, neither of which pass the first test of good lending policies. 
