From CNNmoney.com:  The financial crisis has opened a void  in financing for renewable-energy projects as troubled investment banks  have pulled back, potentially providing opportunities for smaller banks,  investment funds and utilities as new government backing for clean energy  starts to flow. Some non-traditional firms are expected  to step up their investment in renewable-energy projects, which had  been dominated by big players like Bank of America Corp. (BAC), JPMorgan  Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS). But money hasn't come  fast enough for many developers of wind, solar and other clean-energy  projects, which are scrambling to secure funds, even as the U.S. government  promises a flood of money in the hope of kick-starting investment in  a sector seen key to rejeuvenating the economy and weaning the country  off of fossil fuels. Lending was fluid when the banks had  large balance sheets and could make use of a 30% renewable energy investment  tax credit. The banks would invest in clean-energy projects in exchange  for the developing company's tax credit and a related tax write-off  called accelerated depreciation, but as losses have mounted, the big  investment banks still standing have cut back on their tax- equity financing.  This has hurt companies like OptiSolar  and eSolar, privately held solar power developers in California that  have had to sell their project development businesses due to a lack  of financing. Medium-size banks like U.S. Bankcorp  (USB) and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306.TO) unit Union Bank  N.A. say they plan to expand their tax equity investments in renewable  projects, and utilities like California's PG&amp;E Corp. ( PCG) and  Sempra Energy (SRE) have said they're interested in financing such projects  for the first time. The firm has spoken to U.S. House Banking Committee  Chairman Barney Franks about its proposal, in which the Treasury Department  would provide investor-note financing to eligible corporations that  have tax capacity, said Jack Casey, the firm's vice chairman in Washington.
