It's been a while since I looked at the global financial situation or tried to figure out what the bailouts would do for the US economy. I don't post much financial news because I have no expertise in this area and there's plenty of places for people to read quality articles about the crisis. I live in a very distant world from the one where people are worrying about losing their homes, their health benefits and their retirements. My daily concerns still revolve around staying warm (since the temps here keep dropping down to 15 below at night) and ways to bring in cash to cover my frugal lifestyle.  It helps every now and then for me to remember who "they" are, and to see how utterly pathetic my little life is when compared to their vast wealth and power. That I would bother to resist at the level that I do is incomprehensible, even for me.In 1997, Soros "explained" that his world view is based on Hegelian thinking and shows his skillful application of the Hegelian dialectic.  The idea that the American principles for self-government were "self-evident" truths is one in which the European elites NEVER agreed with, and I've read many academics who treat our founding principles with great contempt:"The Declaration of Independence may be taken as a pretty good approximation of the principles of an open society, but instead of claiming that those principles are self-evident, we ought to say that they are consistent with our fallibility. Could the recognition of our imperfect understanding serve to establish the open society as a desirable form of social organization? I believe it could, although there are formidable difficulties in the way. We must promote a belief in our own fallibility to the status that we normally confer on a belief in ultimate truth. But if ultimate truth is not attainable, how can we accept our fallibility as ultimate truth?  "This is an apparent paradox, but it can be resolved. The first proposition, that our understanding is imperfect, is consistent with a second proposition: that we must accept the first proposition as an article of faith. The need for articles of faith arises exactly because our understanding is imperfect. If we enjoyed perfect knowledge, there would be no need for beliefs. But to accept this line of reasoning requires a profound change in the role that we accord our beliefs."  From The Capitalist Threat by George Soros  http://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/soros.htmFrom Peter Myer's elist:(4) George Soros Buys (and sells) the WORLD!From:   10'th_Amend_to_STOP_Commie_FED  Date:   03.03.2009 11:59 AMBuys:The Home Depot Inc.,Union Pacific Corp.,R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Company,Sells:Ticketmaster,Centennial Communications Corp.,CSG Systems International Inc.George Soros Buys (and sells) the WORLD!http://www.gurufocus.com/news.php?id=49418George Soros has been very active these days, writing articles about his views on policies. As usual, his portoflio turnover is high, and he got out of ETFs and bought many solid blue chips. These are his buys and sells in the fourth quarter.George Soros buys Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Inc., Union Pacific Corp., R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Company, Desarrolladora Homex S.A. de C.V., Hologic Inc., BRINKS HOME SECURITY HOLDINGS INC, H.J. Heinz Company, The Home Depot Inc., Lowe's Companies Inc., Google Inc., Aracruz Celulose S.A., Mechel OAO, ULTRASHORT FINANCIALS PROSHARES, Delta Air Lines Inc., Macy's Inc., Cirrus Logic Inc., Covidien Ltd., Symantec Corp., J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc., Amdocs Ltd., Texas Instruments Inc., Yahoo! Inc., Discovery Holding Company Series A, CBL &amp; Associates Properties Inc., Discovery Communications Inc Series C, SOLERA HOLDINGS INC, EMC Corp., Kinross Gold Corp., streetTRACKS Gold, ULTRASHORT RUSSELL2000 PROSHARES, Genworth Financial Inc., Harmonic Inc., Mylan Laboratories Inc., sells Ticketmaster, Centennial Communications Corp., CSG Systems International Inc., Chesapeake Energy Corp., Buffalo Wild Wings Inc., Auxilium Pharmaceuticals Inc., Amazon.com Inc., AlcatelLucent, General Growth Properties Inc, The Bank of New York Mellon Corp., iShares Dow Jones US Real Estate Index F, CarMax Inc., Micron Technology Inc., Bank of America Corp., Entergy Corp., Extreme Networks Inc., Frontline Ltd., GATX Corp., Tekelec, Suncor Energy Inc., SunTrust Banks Inc., Companhia Siderurgica Nacional, ECHOSTAR CORPORATION, RadiSys Corp., Research in Motion Ltd., NASDAQ 100 Trust Series I, Payless ShoeSource Inc., Nasdaq, Kimco Realty Corp., ITT Corp., International Rectifier Corp., HSN Inc., Whiting Petroleum Corp. during the 3-months ended 12/31/2008, according to the most recent filings of his investment company, Soros Fund Management LLC. George Soros owns 83 stocks with a total value of $3.1 billion. These are the details of the buys and sells. * New Purchases: ARA, CBL, CFL, COV, CRUS, DAL, DISCA, DISCK, DOX, EMC, GLD, GNW, GOOG, HD, HLIT, HNZ, HOLX, HXM, JBHT, KGC, LOW, M, MER, MTL, MYL, RRD, SKF, SLH, SYMC, TWM, TXN, UNP, YHOO, * Added Positions: ACI, BBY, CA, CDNS, CNX, COP, DPS, GS, HES, LO, LPS, MA, MSFT, NIHD, PBR, POT, SLB, TDC, UBB, * Reduced Positions: BBND, CIEN, ELX, GLRE, JBLU, PAET, RDWR, T, TWTC, VZ, WIND, WMT, * Sold Out: ALU, AMZN, AUXL, BAC, BK, BWLD, CHK, CSGS, CYCL, ETR, EXTR, FRO, GGP, GMT, HSNI, IRF, ITT, IYR, KIM, KMX, MU, NDAQ, PSS, QQQQ, RIMM, RSYS, SATS, SID, STI, SU, TKLC, TKTM, WLL,For the details of George Soros's stock buys and sells, go to http://www.gurufocus.com/StockBuy.php?GuruName=George+SorosAdded: Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.Petrobras (PBR)George Soros added to his holdings in Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.Petrobras by 73.77%. His purchase prices were between $17.4 and $26.89, with an estimated average price of $22.8. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 12.5%. His holdings were 36,798,937 shares as of 12/31/2008.PETROBRAS-ADR C is an integrated company operating in exploration production refining retailing and transportation of petroleum and its byproducts at home and abroad. ...Added: Best Buy Co. Inc. (BBY)George Soros added to his holdings in Best Buy Co. Inc. by 1637.81%. His purchase prices were between $17.54 and $27.96, with an estimated average price of $23.9. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 8.23%. His holdings were 9,505,828 shares as of 12/31/2008.Best Buy operates in a single business segment selling personal computers and other home office products ...Added: Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT)George Soros added to his holdings in Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. by 77.38%. His purchase prices were between $53.31 and $90.83, with an estimated average price of $71. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 6.19%. His holdings were 5,926,466 shares as of 12/31/2008.Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc. is the world's largest potash company the third largest phoshate producer and the second largest nitrogen producer in the world. Behind its growing success lies a vital infrastructure: knowledgeable PCS Sales staff throughout Canada and the United States a transportation network that includes truck train barge lake ship and ocean vessel and warehouses strategically located in major consuming areas. ...Added: Hess Corp. (HES)George Soros added to his holdings in Hess Corp. by 95.49%. His purchase prices were between $38.41 and $61.11, with an estimated average price of $50.9. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 3.49%. His holdings were 4,077,802 shares as of 12/31/2008.Hess Corporation is a global integrated energy company engaged in the exploration for and the production purchase transportation and sale of crude oil and natural gas as well as the production and sale of refined petroleum products electricity. ...Added: ConocoPhillips (COP)George Soros added to his holdings in ConocoPhillips by 100.44%. His purchase prices were between $46.84 and $52.52, with an estimated average price of $49.7. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 2.9%. His holdings were 3,423,350 shares as of 12/31/2008.ConocoPhillips is a major international integrated energy company with operations in some 49 countries.  ...Added: Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)George Soros added to his holdings in Schlumberger Ltd. by 212.85%. His purchase prices were between $38.88 and $59.95, with an estimated average price of $46.8. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 1.61%. His holdings were 1,705,028 shares as of 12/31/2008.Schlumberger Limited is a global technology services company consisting of two business segments Schlumberger Oilfield Services and SchlumbergerSema. Schlumberger Oilfield Services is the leading provider of exploration and production services solutions and technology to the international petroleum industry.  ...Added: Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)George Soros added to his holdings in Arch Coal Inc. by 67.84%. His purchase prices were between $12.22 and $24, with an estimated average price of $17.2. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 1.04%. His holdings were 4,829,486 shares as of 12/31/2008.ASHLAND COAL INC. is engaged in the mining processing and marketing of low-sulfur bituminous coal. ...Added: CONSOL Energy Inc. (CNX)George Soros added to his holdings in CONSOL Energy Inc. by 44.81%. His purchase prices were between $20.73 and $33.99, with an estimated average price of $28. The impact to his portfolio due to this purchase was 0.35%. His holdings were 1,207,193 shares as of 12/31/2008.CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States and the largest exporter of U.S. coal.  ...Added: Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. (DPS)George Soros added to his holdings in Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc.  ...DR PEPPER SNAPPLE Group is one of the largest beverage companies in the Americas. They manufacture market and distribute more than 50 brands of carbonated soft drinks juices ready to drink teas mixers and other premium beverages across the United States Canada Mexico and the Caribbean. ...Add...
