When Citigroup (C)shares slumped below $1 in Thursday&#8217;s trading, it marked the first time since at least 1970 that a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average traded as, effectively, a penny stock. The closest any other issue came to trading as a penny stock while it was a component of the industrial average was the day in September when American International Group (AIG)sank as low as $1.25; the editor of The Wall Street Journal, who determine the composition of the average, dumped AIG from the Dow four days later, replacing it with Kraft (KFT). Is there a clue for Citi as to its future, at least as it regards inclusion in the Dow industrial average? Perhaps. (And, by the way, Citi&#8217;s former potentate - Sandy Weill - was known to have actively campaigned to have his Travelers insurance operation included in the DJIA, a campaign that succeeded in 1997, and led to Citi&#8217;s inclusion in the industrial average following the 1998 merger.) Some analysts think the Journal editors may end up treating Citi the way it did AIG. For the record, the decision-makers will say they are monitoring developments. At the time of AIG&#8217;s exile, just one other issue in the Dow -General Motors (GM)- traded below $10 a share. GM fell below $10 in July. Since then, four other components of the industrial average have traded in single digits: Alcoa (AA), beginning in October, Citi, since November, Bank of America (BAC), as of January, and General Electric (GE)last month. It marked the first time since at least 1970 that as many as five components of the Dow industrials traded in single digits, according to the index-products group of the WSJ. In fact, the highest prior tally was three, back in 1982, during an earlier recession. And the identities of the three stocks with share prices south of $10 illustrates how dynamic have been the changes to the industrial average, and to the economy at large. Only one of the three companies that comprised the group of single-digit Dow components in 1982 continues to trade as a stand-alone company today: Navistar International (NAV), the legacy of the former International Harvester equipment-manufacturing operations. However, even Navistar hasn&#8217;t traded continuously - the stock was delisted several years ago, but has returned to trade on the New York Stock Exchange. The other two 1982 components that traded below $10 a share - Manville now a unit of Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA)and Inconow a part of Vale (RIO)- were, respectively, a maker of insulation and roofing products and a nickel miner. That&#8217;s three classic industrial names compared with the current crop of underperformers, which do include a failing car maker, a struggling metals company, one industrial that&#8217;s largely a financial-services company, and two large banks. The conclusion: we&#8217;re struggling with a different class of economic players.
