U.S. equities managed to extend this month&#8217;s spectacular rally after a successful government bond auction and some more data the market interpreted rather bullishly encouraged optimism that the Obama Administration will get a chance to turn economic fortunes later this year. Shares of economically sensitive blue chip names paced the advance, with Caterpillar (CAT)climbing 8%, Alcoa (AA)advancing 6%, and 3M (MMM)rising 4%. The gainscame after Thursday&#8217;s auction of seven-year Treasuries gave investors conviction the couldn&#8217;t generate after a five-year note auction Wednesday: that the Treasury will be able to keep rates low enough to stimulatethe mortgage market, rouse the moribund housing market, and reengineer bank lending. Thesuccess of the Treasury auctionfollowed a reading on national economic activity that showed, while the economy posted its dreariest performance in a generation in the final quarter last year, the decline wasn&#8217;t as dramatic as economists had feared. Thefinalrevision to fourth-quarter GDP showed a decline of 6.3%, the worst since the first quarter 1982, but not quite as dramatic as the 6.7% pullback that had been anticipated. It may be an unfair game of relativism, but in the market&#8217;s current rally-first mindset, it proved enough to relieve some economic fretting. The Dow Jones Industrial Average kept alive the remarkable March Madnessrally, adding 175 points, or 2.3%, to close at 7924, its highest close since Feb. 12. It certainly won&#8217;t take much to propel the industrial average above the 8000-point mark for the first time sinceFeb. 9. The Dow has advanced 12%since the end of February, but - more remarkably - risen 21% since the bottom of the recent cycle, reached March 9. It marked the first time since the start of the bear market in October 2007 that the Dow improved 20%; under the conventions of market analysis, a 20% movewould qualify as a bull market, although this is still being judged as a rally within the context of a bear market, inasmuch as theindustrials are still 44% below the October 2007 record close. The rally came without the participation, let alonethe leadership, of the financial stocks that have led the recent charge. The group cowered after Timothy Geithner, in his latest appearance on Capitol Hill, seized the political capital coined by public antipathy for the bankingsector by insisting that the financial services business needed a new regulatory blueprint. And there wasn&#8217;t much chance he was arguing for less regulation. Shares of Bank of America (BAC)eased2%, while Wells Fargo (WFC) slid 3%.The private equityoperation Fortress Investments (FIG), whose heretofore unregulatedtransactions could be subject to new government oversight if Geithner gets his way, lost 2%. The session also found room to celebratesomeencouraging profit performances. Shares of Best Buy(BBY)the consumer electronics retailer whose sales could have fallen victim to reluctant consumer spending, managed to post earnings that didn&#8217;t fall as sharply as had been anticipated. The stock jumped 12%. ConAgra(CAG)moved upu 9% on the heels of its quarter earnings statement.
