POLICYHOLDERS of general insurer American Home Assurance Singapore (AHA) were yesterday assured that it has sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations and customer claims.  This came amid news of a major restructuring of its New York-based parent, American International Group (AIG), which posted a huge US$61.7 billion (S$95.8 billion) quarterly loss. AHA - Singapore's leading general insurer with a 14.1 per cent market share - said AIG was forming a general insurance holding firm AIU Holdings, of which AHA will be a part. AIU Holdings will include the existing entity American International Underwriters (AIU), which is a network of property-casualty operations held by AIG. AHA is already part of AIU.  AIU Holdings will have a board of directors, management team and brand distinct from AIG.  AIG is moving to distance its core general insurance operations from the rest of the group as it prepares for a potential sale of a minority stake in its non-general insurance business. That includes the valuable life insurance business in Asia, American International Assurance (AIA), which is already up for sale.  AIA did not issue any statement yesterday. The sale may include a public offering of shares, depending on market conditions, AHA said.  AHA president Kevin Goulding said: 'We hope that our customers will have a sense of security that AIU and AHA are financially solvent and we're more than capable of paying their claims even in the most trying times.' Customers were also reminded that AHA's funds are segregated from AIG and are held specifically to meet the firm's obligations to policyholders.  In a move to bolster consumer confidence, AHA raised its capital adequacy ratio last December to some 205 per cent from 150 per cent. This is well above the minimum 120 per cent requirement set by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.  Despite challenging market conditions, AIU and AHA achieved strong results last year. AIU posted 10.3 per cent growth in net premiums to US$14.4 billion. It also paid more than US$7.5 billion in claims from January to November last year. This is in stark contrast to AIG's overall performance last year which saw a net loss of nearly US$100 billion.  In Singapore, AHA achieved 8 per cent growth in net premiums to $341 million and paid out $200 million in claims.  Mr Goulding expects an 'unquestionably challenging' year ahead and aims to realise growth of 2 percentage points above what has been targeted.  He said staff retention is a priority and the training budget will be tripled this year. The personal lines sector, which covers personal accident, home contents and motor, is doing well, with 11 per cent growth so far this year.  AHA said it continues to generate positive cash flow and maintains more than $170 million in cash. As of Dec 31, its total assets stood at $656 million and it had a staff strength of 455.
