(A. M. Best via COMTEX) -- AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said his office has learned that 73 employees of American International Group Inc.'s Financial Products unit pocketed bonuses of $1 million or more, with the highest bonus being more than $6.4 million.  'AIG made more than 73 millionaires in the unit which lost so much money that it brought the firm to its knees,' Cuomo wrote in a March 17 letter to Barney Frank, D-Mass, chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services. Of the total to receive bonuses of $1 million or more, Cuomo said 11 no longer work for AIG.  'Something is deeply wrong with this outcome,' Cuomo wrote.  The information was outlined in Cuomo's letter to Frank, written just a day before the committee holds a hearing into the AIG bailout at which Liddy is expected to testify (BestWire, March 13, 2009).  The letter informs Frank of Cuomo's ongoing investigation into the distribution of more than $160 million in bonuses, or retention payments, to members of AIG Financial Products unit, which wrote the derivatives contracts that crippled the insurer and drove it into a federal bailout plan that has grown to up to $180 billion (BestWire, March 16, 2009).  The top seven recipients of bonuses each received more than $4 million, Cuomo told Frank. The top 10 bonuses totaled $42 million, he said.  Cuomo told Frank his office has obtained the contracts AIG said has bound them to pay the bonuses. The contracts 'contain a provision that required most individuals' bonuses to be 100% of their 2007 bonuses.' Cuomo noted that AIG 'chose to lock in bonuses for 2008 at 2007 levels despite obvious signs that 2008 performance would be disastrous in comparison to the year before.'  'AIG now claims that it had no choice but to pay these sums because of the unalterable terms of the plan,' Cuomo wrote to Frank. 'However, had the federal government not bailed out AIG with billions in taxpayer funds, the firm likely would have gone bankrupt, and surely no payments would have been made out of the plan.'  Cuomo said AIG had agreed with his office not to make payments out of its $600 million Financial Products deferred compensation pool. The attorney general has subpoenaed the insurer demanding a list of individuals who are to receive bonuses under AIG's retention plan (BestWire, March 17, 2008).  AIG Financial Products employees had agreed to take salaries of $1 for 2009 in exchange for receiving their retention bonus packages, Cuomo wrote. 'The fact that AIG engaged in this negotiation flies in the face of AIG's assertion that it had no choice but to make these lavish multimillion dollar bonus payments. It appears that AIG had far more leverage than they claim.'  Most AIG insurance companies currently have a Best's Financial Strength Rating of A (Excellent) with a negative outlook.  Shares of AIG were trading at 93 cents per share late on the afternoon of March 17 ? up 12.42% from the previous close.  (By Chad Hemenway, associate editor, BestWeek: Chad.Hemenway@ambest.com)  For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 1. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
