 March 5 - Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn today failed to quantify the limit on the money the government might be willing to give to struggling insurance giant AIG. In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, Kohn was asked for an upper limit of government support for AIG, to which he replied, 'I can't give you a number.' This met heavy resistance from both Republican and Democratic Senators who said they are resistant to allocating more taxpayer money to fund operations that seemingly have no end. 'You will get the biggest no you ever got,' warned Republican Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky. 'You are asking for an open-ended check and gentlemen, you're not going to get that,' said Democratic Senator Bob Mendendez of New Jersey.  The Treasury Department now owns approximately 79.9% of the company after four attempts to boost the ailing company. The most recent was Monday's $30 bln capital injection, which Kohn today defended as an 'uncomfortable' but necessary action to protect the economy and maximize the likelihood of the government being repaid for the capital commitments it has already made.  Kohn did tell the committee that the government's 'exit strategy is clear -- we have to sell it off.' He added that if there are no losses on AIG's credit default swaps, the Fed and Treasury will sell them with great benefit to the taxpayer.  Republican Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee called federal actions to aid AIG the 'largest blunder in modern history.' He suggested that it might have been better for the insurance company to simply go into bankruptcy and for the federal government to stand behind counter-party losses.  Kohn said that such a move would not have been adequate enough 'to staunch the bleeding.' He also noted that neither the Federal Reserve nor Treasury had the authority to back counter-party losses when it first stepped in to support AIG in September. These authorities were later granted upon the passing of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act in October.  Also testifying today were New York Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo and Office of Thrift Supervision Senior Deputy Director Scott Polakoff, who admitted that in 2004, his group 'should have taken an entirely different approach than we took on credit default swaps.' tessa.moran@thomsonreuters.com /wash COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News. 
