(Updates with comments from Fitch Ratings in ninth paragraph)  DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (AIG) reached a new deal with the U.S. government for continued support for its restructuring as the insurance giant posted a record quarterly loss on $64.1 billion in write-downs and charges.  AIG's shares were recently up 7.6% at 45 cents in premarket trading. The stock is off 73% so far this year.  Chief Executive   Edward M. Liddy  said Monday that the company has made ' meaningful progress' in addressing its liquidity issues, but it's taking more steps to preserve the value of its business amid the economic and capital-market turmoil.  They include forming a general-insurance holding company that will consist of its commercial insurance group, foreign general unit and other property and casualty operations. AIU Holdings Inc. will have its own board and management, and its creation will help AIG prepare to possibly sell a minority stake in the business.  AIG also said it's considering combining its domestic life and retirement businesses as it looks to boost competitiveness. The combined units would have assets of $246.8 billion.  The U.S. government is boosting its investment in the embattled insurer through an additional $30 billion in capital. In addition to providing up to $30 billion in additional capital to AIG in return for preferred stock, the Treasury Department said it would convert its existing $40 billion of preferred shares into new preferred shares that more closely resemble common stock.  The company also will transfer preferred interests in American Life Insurance Co. and American International Assurance Co. to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in return for a reduction of up to $26 billion of its outstanding credit facility there.  AIG said it will continue looking for buyers for its units that are already up for sale and will continue reviewing its options for other units, which may include a public offering.  Fitch Ratings affirmed its credit ratings on AIG amid the government support but downgraded some of the company's hybrid debt, saying there was a possibility of increased future political or other incentives to defer payment on hybrid instruments to preserve cash and support the repayment of the government money. Fitch has cut its ratings on hybrid securities at several other large financial institutions recently for the same reason.  Meanwhile, AIG posted a fourth-quarter net loss of $61.7 billion, or $22.95 a share, compared with a year-earlier net loss of $5.3 billion, or $2.08 a share. The latest results included the restructuring charges and write-downs as the company continues to be slammed by credit-market deterioration, especially in its exposure to commercial mortgage-backed securities.  The loss is the biggest quarterly loss in history, breaking the record set by  (TWX) in 2002 amid its acquisition by America Online.  Operationally, AIG's general-insurance business swung to a loss on write- downs, falling investment income and losses at United Guaranty Corp. General- insurance net premiums dropped 16% to $9.2 billion.  Life-insurance profits fell 70%, and financial-services' loss widened.  -By   Kerry E. Grace  , Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5089; kerry.grace@ dowjones.com   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-02-090722ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
