(A. M. Best via COMTEX) -- PNX   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Even while their stock is trading at less than $1 a share, companies like American International Group (NYSE: AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) and Phoenix Cos. (NYSE: PNX   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) won't face delisting from the New York Stock Exchange quite yet.  NYSE Euronext said the NYSE temporarily suspended its $1 minimum price requirement until June 30, and would also temporary lower the average market cap requirement to $15 million from $25 million. The action 'reflects the exchange?s determination that suitable companies should remain listed during the current period of unusual market volatility and decline,' the NYSE said in a statement.  Other insurance companies that stand to enjoy the delisting reprieve include Conseco Inc. (NYSE: CNO) and Genworth Financial Inc. (NYSE: GNW).  The NYSE first eased its market-capitalization standards on Jan. 23, but the market downturn has only deepened since then, Scott R. Cutler, NYSE Euronext executive vice president and head of listings for the Americas, said in a statement.  The exchange normally requires listed companies to maintain at least $25 million in global market capitalization and to have stock trading at more than $1. Normally, a stock trading at less than $1 for 30 days is in danger of being delisted.  AIG's stock has been trading at less than $1 a share since Feb. 10. Phoenix has been trading at less than $1 since Feb. 25. Conseco and Genworth's price slipped below $1 for the first time March 2 and 3, respectively.  AIG recently announced a restructuring plan in the wake of a federal rescue bailout that has grown to as much as $180 billion. The company also posted a $61.7 billion loss for the fourth quarter of 2008 (BestWire, March 2, 2009).  In February, Phoenix Cos. recorded fourth-quarter and year-end 2008 net losses on costs related to the spin-off of its asset-management subsidiary, the life insurer plans to eliminate about 25% of its work force to save $65 million a year (BestWire, Feb. 27, 2009).  Earlier this week, Conseco Inc. preliminarily widened its fourth-quarter net loss, it warned of possible concerns by auditors over its liquidity and ability to pay off debt. Preliminary net loss amounted to $406.8 million, compared with a $71.5 million net loss in the fourth quarter of 2007 (BestWire March 3, 2009).  In February, Genworth reported a loss from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2008 of $321 million, compared with income of $180 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The company announced it would cut 1,000 jobs in December.  While the NYSE?s filing submitted to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the adoption of this rule change is immediately effective, it is subject to a 30-day operative delay under SEC rules. The NYSE has asked the SEC to waive the operative delay and expects the SEC to take prompt action to effectuate that waiver.  On the afternoon of March 6, AIG's stock was trading at 33 cents a share, down 4.66% from the previous close; Phoenix Cos.' stock was trading at 31 cents a share, down 2.81%; Conseco was trading at 42 cents a share, up 13.46%; and Genworth was trading at 82 cents a share, down 9.41%.  Most AIG insurance companies currently have a Best?s Financial Strength Rating of A (Excellent) with a negative outlook. Phoenix Life and Annuity currently has a Best's Financial Strength Rating of A- (Excellent). Conseco Life Insurance Co. currently has a Best's Financial Strength Rating of B (Fair). Genworth Life and Annuity Insurance Co. is currently rated A (Excellent).  (By Meg Green, senior associate editor, BestWeek: Meg.Green@ambest.com)  For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 7. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
