* AIG gets another $30 bln equity commitment - sources  * HSBC preparing $18 bln rights issue - sources  * Chinese manufacturing sector deteriorates further in Feb  * Asian shares down 4 pct on financial sector fears (For more on the financial crisis, click [nCRISIS])  NEW YORK/BEIJING, March 2 (Reuters) - Insurer AIG (AIG.N) is set to take a $30 billion lifeline from the U.S. government and HSBC (HSBA.L) plans to raise up to $18 billion to counter a crisis that is punishing companies and crippling international trade.  China's manufacturing sector declined further last month, while South Korean imports and exports also slumped as the global turmoil hit export-dependent countries in Asia particularly hard.  Policymakers from Southeast Asia to Europe said they would not allow protectionism to further restrict the global movement of goods, which has slowed to a trickle as banks restrict lending in a desperate effort to conserve cash. [ID:nL1594890]  Also desperate for cash, the board of AIG on Sunday approved a third rescue package from the U.S. government, two sources familiar with the matter said. [ID:nN01344575]  The package includes more lenient terms on an existing government investment in its preferred shares and a lower interest rate on a government credit line on top of the extra cash, said the sources.  AIG is on Monday expected to post a fourth quarter loss of $60 billion, the biggest quarterly loss in history and the equivalent of about $460,000 a minute.  THIRD TIME LUCKY?  The U.S. government has already pledged around $150 billion in an effort to save AIG, once the biggest insurer by market value, whose global reach may have made it too big to fail.  'The government really does not have the option of letting AIG totally blow up,' said Robert Haines, senior insurance analyst at CreditSights.  'Hopefully, the third bailout will be the charm,' he said. 'The counterparties on most of the book are (European) banks that would be hammered if the U.S. walked away.'  With or without government help, financial firms are scrambling to improve their balance sheets devastated by investments in toxic debt products linked to the U.S. subprime mortgage market and rising bad debts. Continued...  
