NEW YORK: Gretchen  Morgenson 'Derivatives are dangerous.' That simple sentence, written by Warren Buffett, begins an enlightening discussion in Berkshire Hathaway's most recent annual report. Buffett's views on derivatives, gleaned from his own unhappy encounters with them, should be required reading for all U.S. taxpayers.  Why? Because we own almost 80 percent of American International Group, the giant insurer whose collapse was a direct result of derivatives it sold during the late, great credit boom. AIG nearly barreled off the cliff last September, when it could not meet its obligations to customers who had bought a version of derivatives called credit default swaps. Such swaps are like insurance policies: Bondholders buy them to protect themselves from default on various forms of debt.  When AIG could not meet the wave of obligations it owed on the swaps last fall, as Wall Street went into a tailspin, the Federal Reserve stepped in with an $85 billion loan to keep the hobbled insurer from going bankrupt; over all, the government has pledged a total of $160 billion to AIG to help it meet its obligations and restructure operations.  So is AIG the taxpayer gift that keeps on taking? Sure looks that way. And while no one can say with certainty whether more money will be needed, the sheer volume of derivatives engineered by a small London unit of AIG suggests that taxpayers have not seen the bottom of this money pit.  About $440 billion in credit default swaps sat on the company's books before it collapsed. Its biggest customers, European banks and U.S. investment banks, bought the swaps to insure against defaults on a variety of debt holdings, including pools of mortgages and corporate loans.  Because of the way AIG wrote its swaps, and because the company had a double-A credit rating at the time, it did not have to put up collateral to assure its customers that it would be able to pay on the insurance if necessary. Collateral would be required only if AIG's credit rating were cut or if the debt underlying the swaps were to decline. Both of these 'unthinkable' events occurred in 2008. Suddenly, AIG had to cough up collateral it did not have.  So, you see, the rescue of AIG also involved a bailout of its many customers, none of whom the insurer or the government is willing to identify.  Nevertheless, Edward Liddy, the chief executive of AIG, explained to investors last week that 'the vast majority' of taxpayer funds 'have passed through AIG to other financial institutions' as the company unwound deals with its customers.  On Wall Street, those customers are known as 'counterparties,' and Liddy would not provide details on who the counterparties were or how much they had received. But a person briefed on the deals said AIG's former customers included Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and two large French banks, Soci
