CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- U.S. taxpayers' latest investment, a stake in  (AIG) foreign life insurance operations, appears to be in dire need of a turnaround.  AIG said Monday it will transfer a preferred interest in its main foreign life insurance businesses, American Life Insurance Co., or Alico, and American International Assurance Co., Ltd., or AIA, to the Federal Reserve in return for a $26 billion or so reduction in the amount AIG owes the government. AIG will operate them until the market improves enough for a sale or spinoff, when both sides will settle up.  The deal, part of a revised and expanded government bailout, encouraged investors, who pushed up AIG's share price by 10% in recent trading.  AIG doesn't break out the results for Alico or AIA. But some overall statistics from its Asian insurance operations - which aren't an exact match for Alico and AIA, AIG said - showed declines in business during the fourth quarter. Concerns among Asian consumers over AIG's stability have been strong enough that some competitors have had to publicly distance themselves from the company. AIG had hoped initially to sell interests in Alico and AIA, considered among the crown jewels of the company, to help it pay down a loan from the U.S. government.  Now AIG eventually plans to 'tap the intrinsic value of its insurance companies to repay a portion of the government credit facility,' although there is no telling when that might be, said   Edward M. Liddy  , AIG's chairman and chief executive officer, during the company's earnings conference call Monday.  He said that the company had received offers, but he didn't say for how much.  According to media reports, a preliminary offer was made by U.S. insurer MetLife Inc. (MET) for $11.2 billion, which may have been reduced later amid deterioration of AIG's overseas life insurance business.  In the fourth quarter, total premiums, deposits and other considerations for AIG's Foreign Life Insurance &amp; Retirement Services segment dropped 45% from the year-earlier period, as the segment reported a $5.4 billion fourth-quarter operating loss. An AIG representative said those results include some operations other than Alico and AIA, the units in which the U.S. is acquiring preferred stakes.  AIG reported an overall $61.7 billion fourth-quarter loss Monday, driven largely by continuing losses in its investments and in its Financial Products business.  Aflac Inc. (AFL), which sells supplemental insurance policies in Japan, gave a hint of the 'headline' issues AIG faces when it said it was forced to buy advertising there in September to explain that it was not connected to AIG. Worried customers had flooded Aflac's phone lines in Japan with 1,200 calls a day.  Right now, it is difficult to decipher what price the businesses will bring, and when. AIG's deal with the Fed calls for the valuation of its Alico and AIA stake to be 'a percentage of the fair market value of Alico and AIA based on valuations acceptable to the New York Fed,' expected to be 'up to approximately $26 billion,' according to a Treasury Department press release. The timeframe for a sale is left open, as is the percentage of the companies that the taxpayer will own. At one time, the businesses were expected to bring in far more.  But the downturn in the economy has made it very difficult to sell, Liddy said. 'I would have never projected back in September that the valuation of life insurance companies would have gone down by 70%,' he said. He said he hopes for better days for AIG and U.S. taxpayers. 'There has to be a floor at some point in time,' Liddy said. 'When that floor is hit and things begin to improve, this company, the taxpayers, our shareholders will be well served by that.' -By   Lavonne Kuykendall  , Dow Jones Newswires; (312) 750 4141; lavonne.kuykendall@dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-02-091519ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
