Washington, March 5 - Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn said today that each decision to provide assistance to AIG 'has been difficult and uncomfortable for us,' but the risks of not providing this assistance are 'unacceptably large.' 'The disorderly failure of systemically important financial institutions during this period of severe economic stress would only deepen the current economic recession,' Kohn said in testimony today before the Senate Banking Committee. He was defending another $30 bln in government funds issued on Monday to AIG, the insurance giant which has already received approximately $150 bln in federal aid and which recently reported a staggering loss of $61.7 bln last quarter. 'Extreme financial and economic conditions have greatly complicated the plans for divesture of significant parts of the company in order to repay the US governmet for its previous support,' Kohn said. 'Would-be buyers themselves are experiencing financial strains and lack access to financing that would make sure purchases possible.' In consequence, the Federal Reserve and Treasury announced on Monday a plan to provide longer-term stability to AIG, which Kohn said would facilitate divesture of its assets and maximize the 'likelihood' of repaying US taxpayers. In addition to the capital injection, Treasury will restructure $40 bln in preferred equity AIG issued to Treasury in connection to the assistance offered in November. The Fed has also agreed to restructure AIG's outstanding debt under the Revolving Credit Facility. Capacity under the facility will be reduced from $60 bln to $25 bln. 'In exercising the tools at our disposal, we are...committed to acting only when and to the extent that our assistance is necessary and can be effective in addressing systemic risks and we are committed to protecting the interests of the U.S. government and taxpayer,' Kohn said.tessa.moran@thomsonreuters.com /wash COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News. 
