AIG, the fallen US insurer, has unveiled a $US62 billion ($98 billion) loss -- the largest in American corporate history -- as it secured a fresh $US30 billion bailout package from the Government. history -- as it secured a fresh $US30 billion bailout package from the Government. The insurance giant, one of the highest profile casualties of the credit crunch, revealed that it had amassed a $US61.7 billion loss in the fourth quarter.   The staggering deficit, equal to $US22.95 a share, is the group's fifth consecutive quarterly loss. Its total loss in the period is in excess of $US100 billion.   Despite the losses, the Government insisted that allowing the stricken group to go to the wall was still not an option. It also raised the prospect of further handouts if AIG's position did not improve.   In a joint statement, the US Treasury department and Federal Reserve said: 'Given the systemic risk AIG continues to pose and the fragility of markets today, the potential cost to the economy and the taxpayer of government inaction would be extremely high.' It said that stabilising the group would 'take time and possibly further government support'. Under the deal the Treasury is to create a new equity capital facility which will allow AIG to draw down up to $US30 billion.   The insurance giant has also effectively agreed to hand over two units, its American Life Insurance (Alico), which is focused on Japan, and American International Assurance (AIA), the Hong-Kong based life insurance group. It will put them into special purpose vehicles in which the Federal Reserve will take stakes.   AIG has been trying to sell Alico and part of AIA to raise cash to repay the Government.   Instead of paying back $US38 billion in cash with interest that it has used from a Federal Reserve credit line AIG will now repay that amount with the equity stakes.   AIG said that the restructuring plan provided the 'optimal solution to maintain the value of these businesses'. It also confirmed that it had secured offers to acquire all or part of Alico. It said: 'These proposals are preliminary and are being reviewed, along with AIG's consideration of a full or partial IPO of Alico.' AIG became one of the biggest losers of the credit crunch last northern summer after bad bets linked to the sub-prime housing market brought it to its knees.   Its UK operations are being investigated by the Serious Fraud Office, which is working in co-operation with the American authorities.   The US Government provided an $US85 billion rescue package in September, only to rush to the group's aid a second time in November with a fresh $US150 billion bailout.   The deal is the latest renegotiated bailout as the true scale of financial institutional losses becomes apparent.   Last week, the US Government agreed to boost its equity stake in Citigroup to as much as 36 per cent, even though the bank has already received billions of dollars from US taxpayers.   -Elizabeth Judge contributed to this story. 
