 Throughout the financial crisis, the leaders of big banks have defended their inability to spot potential risks by pointing fingers at the industry and arguing: 'it wasn't just me.' As former Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) Robert Rubin put it 'nobody was prepared for this.' So now that American International Group Inc. (AIG:AIG Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) is into the American taxpayer for another $30 billion, what excuse can its recent chief executives -- Maurice 'Hank' Greenberg until 2005 and his successor, Robert Willumstad, until 2008 -- say to defend one woeful aspect of the company: it's failure to turn a profit in its core insurance business? For if AIG's foray into toxic securities, including credit-default swaps, had any justification it was that it was an accepted industry practice. The ratings agencies overlooked the risks. The analysts missed them. AIG's $61.66 billion is the biggest quarterly loss in history. The bulk of AIG's losses are paper, the kind many banks, brokers and insurance companies have been taking during the last two years. The paper part doesn't mean it doesn't hurt any less, but doesn't come as a surprise. What's troubling is that after stripping out capital losses and other accounting items, AIG said it would have lost $37.9 billion, or $14.17 a share, for the 2008 fourth quarter. Insurance premiums and other considerations declined by 1.9% for the quarter, General-insurance net premiums dropped 16% to $9.2 billion. Life-insurance profits fell 70% and financial services' loss widened.  Choose to forgive AIG for failing to avoid the pitfalls so many other companies failed to sidestep. But don't forgive the company for failing at the business it's supposed to know. The government, which began its bailout six months ago as a short-term lender, must now reevaluate its position knowing the full truth: AIG is terrible when it comes to risk and investing, and its insurance business may be just as dysfunctional. -- David Weidner 
