The US Federal Reserve is to take equity stakes in two of the company's life insurance businesses, while the company  which has already taken $150 billion in taxpayer aid  will also receive a further $30bn on an 'as needed' basis.AIG posted a $61.7bn (43.9bn) loss for its fourth quarter yesterday, marking its fifth quarterly loss in a row. The firm's losses total more than $100bn over the period.  AIG's quarterly results included pre-tax losses of $21.6bn, linked to its deteriorating portfolio of investments.  The US government first saved AIG from collapse in September with a loan, arguing that the insurer  which suffered hefty losses from the collapse of the US subprime mortgage market  was too important to the country's economy to be allowed to fail. A second bailout followed, giving the US government a stake of nearly 80 per cent.  A joint statement from the US Treasury and the Federal Reserve on yesterday's revised package warned that a long-term solution for the company would 'take time and possibly further government support, if markets do not stabilise and improve'.It added: 'Given the systemic risk AIG continues to pose and the fragility of markets today, the potential cost to the economy and the taxpayer of government inaction would be extremely high.'It is hopes that the bailout will avoid a damaging credit rating downgrade for AIG.  Christopher Garman, head of Garman Research, said: 'It's a pretty strong reminder that the US Treasury is still all that stands between the current market environment and the ongoing threat of systemic financial meltdown.'AIG has not been able to find buyers for parts of its business it wanted to sell to repay the financial aid it has already received from the state.  The company, best-known in the UK for sponsoring Manchester United  the deal will come to an end in May next year  has 11 UK offices, including one in Glasgow, and operations that include a life and pensions business, an investment management division and an insurance operation that specialises in kidnap, ransom and extortion cover.  The company also sells insurance through high-street names such as Argos and Boots, and underwrites product warranties for John Lewis.  For the full year, AIG lost $99.3bn, against a profit of $6.2bn the previous year.  The annual losses compare with the record set by media giant Time Warner, which haemorrhaged $98.7bn in 2002, following the collapse in the value of its AOL internet business. TROUBLED insurance giant American International Group (AIG) has been handed another massive bailout by the US government after it entered the record books with the biggest quarterly loss in global corporate history.
