(Business Insurance)Ratings agencies reacted positively Monday to the news of American International Groups revised bailout package, which includes an additional $30 billion of available federal assistance, an easing of earlier loan terms and a restructuring of the embattled company.  Standard &amp; Poors Corp. affirmed is A+ financial strength and counterparty credit ratings on New York-based AIGs insurance subsidiaries, as well as its A-/A-1 counterparty credit rating on the parent company.  The affirmation primarily reflects our view that the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve will continue their financial support of and ongoing commitment to AIG as the revised recapitalization the company announced today improves its capital adequacy and reduces pressure on debt holders, S&amp;P credit analyst Kevin Ahern said in a statement. The ratings reflect a combination of the extraordinary external support from the U.S. government in light of AIGs status as a highly systemically important financial institution. We expect this support to be ongoing during AIGs period of stress.  S&amp;P noted, though, that its outlook on the ratings is negative, based on continuing concerns about AIGs ability to retain staff and win business, as well as the timeframe for planned asset sales.  In addition, Moodys Investors Service Inc. affirmed the insurance financial strength rating of AIGs core property/casualty operations, including AIG Commercial Insurance (Aa3, negative), AIG U.K. Ltd. (A1, negative) and AIG General Insurance (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. (A3 negative).  Fitch Ratings Inc. said that the U.S. governments support for AIG overrides the effects of AIGs $61.7 billion fourth-quarter loss for most of the companys subsidiaries. AIG announced the loss and the revised bailout plan Monday.  Reproductions and distribution of the above article are strictly prohibited. To order reprints and/or request permission to use the article in full or partial format please contact our Reprint Sales Manager at (732) 723-0569.  
