NEW YORKRatings agencies Monday affirmed or left unchanged their ratings on American International Group Inc. after the embattled company announced a revised bailout package, which includes an additional $30 billion of available federal assistance, an easing of earlier loan terms and a restructuring plan.  AIG on Monday also reported a $61.66 billion quarterly loss. Reports last week had suggested that a loss of that size, in the absence of additional government assistance, could trigger crippling downgrades to the company's ratings.  A.M. Best Co. Inc. said Monday afternoon that its financial strength and issuer credit ratingsA and a, respectivelyon AIG's insurance subsidiaries are unchanged and that the outlook on those ratings remains negative. Also unchanged is Best's bbb issuer credit rating on AIG.  Best said its decision to leave the ratings unchanged reflects the 'the continued commitment of the U.S. government to support AIGs financial position, demonstrated by the new and revised plans announced today.'  The ratings agency said the negative outlook stems from several factors, including remaining exposures at AIG Financial Products and 'challenges associated with AIG's 'core' franchise, including the recent and potential employee turnover, continued market acceptance in the commercial casualty sector and the inherent competitive pressures brought on by professional insurance brokers and risk managers alike.'  Best notes, though, that AIG's management believes that the eventual spinoff of part of its franchise property/casualty businessannounced Monday as part of AIG's restructuring programshould 'help to alleviate these concerns.'  Meanwhile, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. affirmed its A+ financial strength and counterparty credit ratings on New York-based AIG's insurance subsidiaries, as well as its A-/A-1 counterparty credit rating on the parent company.  'The affirmation primarily reflects our view that the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve will continue their financial support of and ongoing commitment to AIG as the revised recapitalization the company announced today improves its capital adequacy and reduces pressure on debt holders,' S&amp;P credit analyst Kevin Ahern said in a statement. 'The ratings reflect a combination of the extraordinary external support from the U.S. government in light of AIG's status as a highly systemically important financial institution. We expect this support to be ongoing during AIG's period of stress.'  S&amp;P noted, though, that its outlook on the ratings is negative, based on continuing concerns about AIG's ability to retain staff and win business, as well as the timeframe for planned asset sales.  In addition, Moody's Investors Service Inc. affirmed the insurance financial strength rating of AIG's core property/casualty operations, including AIG Commercial Insurance (Aa3, negative), AIG U.K. Ltd. (A1, negative) and AIG General Insurance (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. (A3 negative).  Fitch Ratings Inc. said the U.S. government's support for AIG overrides the effects of AIG's $61.66 billion fourth-quarter loss for most of the company's subsidiaries.  
