    all those who are so harshly criticizing the Rangers make it sound as though the team is &amp;quot;benefitting&amp;quot; from cherepenaov&amp;#039;s death. they lost a top prospect who they had high hopes for, and they are applying to get the 2nd round pick the CBA entitles them to. I assure everyone they are not benefitting by this chain of events...they lost the top prospect they had.  I think many of those who are criticizing the Rangers are either being ignorant or just hate the Rangers. any team that is competently run would try to do the same thing the Rangers are doing. the Len Bias comparison is MORONIC. the NBA does not operate under the same rules the NHL does. its apples and oranges.  and the Rangers are being insensitive? should they never mentioned that this happened? should they forget about it? never speak of it?  i laugh at the whole &amp;quot;the rangers buy everyone.&amp;quot; there is a salary cap now, fellas. that dumb rhetoric is old. i am sorry that players don&amp;#039;t want to play in Newark or Uniondale and instead want to play in manhattan. man, those guys are really out of their minds aren&amp;#039;t they? why play in NYC when you can live in new jersey!   cherepanov&amp;#039;s death is a tragedy. i don&amp;#039;t think the Rangers are trying to minimize that by trying to do this. yes, it is a tough issue to deal with. but there are tough decisions that need to be made in certain situations. this is certainly one.     You&amp;#039;re an idiot of the highest degree for dragging the Devils into this and acting like no one wants to come play for us. Keep in mind that you only have Gomez because Lou lowballed him and took him to arbitration. As a result, Gomez got mad and set his mind on testing the market. Good to see the rangers are finally building from within though and not giving out stupid deals to Bure, Lindros, Holik, etc.. Year after year of seeing the devils make the playoffs and make a run at the cup must&amp;#039;ve taught the Rags a thing or two. Play good team defense and get good goaltending and you can make noise. Acting like no one wants to play for the Devils when they&amp;#039;ve made the playoffs in 17 of the past 18 years, and have won 3 cups in the past 12 seasons is just childish hatred.  Yeah, the Rangers have people taking discounts left and right to get into MSG. Oh wait, they had to overpay for Drury, Redden, and Gomez. Their 3 most prized FA signings. But yeah, Redden wanted to play in MSG so bad that he took a discount to the tune of 6yrs @ 6.5mill/yr to play there. He&amp;#039;s such a great guy that they should build him a statue. Or how about Drury? I mean, what a classy individual to take such a significant paycut to play for the Rangers. Only 7mill/yr for those 50-60pt seasons he&amp;#039;s going to give you. I applaud him.    Would you like a tissue? I would of thought you were done crying your eyes out after the Brodeur injury.  Great comeback. Good job refuting my points. Well done!  
