           Why should the Knicks help the competition unless there&amp;#039;s a benefit to them?? Now you could make an argument that adding Marbury automatically makes a team worse, but let&amp;#039;s assume that&amp;#039;s not the case and he could actually make a team better. Shouldn&amp;#039;t the Knicks get something in return for doing that??   You think keeping Marbury for the remainder of the year and paying him his full amount while not getting any production out of him is the better option?  They pay him now and move on. That&amp;#039;sa huge return. As is the opportunity to add players to their roster, no matter the quality of said player.  This is about the Knicks just as much as Marbury. Keeping Marbury for fear of how it might help Marbury is both short sighted (in that it doesn&amp;#039;t consider how it might help them) and petty (in that it&amp;#039;s vindictive).  The current situation hurts both.     They already have to pay him; the leverage they have over Marbury is playing time. He wants it; they hold the key to it. Sounds like a deal needs to be made.  Agreed. The issue they have is putting him on the inactive list. Technically the player is supposed to be injured.( A well known ignored rule in the NBA). They should just sit him on the end of the bench until something can be worked out while requiring him to pratice.  You are incorrect. From your own article.  Under the new  Collective Bargaining Agreement , each team is required to carry 12 players on its active list and at least one player on its inactive list. Teams may have a maximum of three players on its inactive list, which includes any players sent to the NBA Development League.   It never mentions anything about putting non-injured players on the inactive list. It just stipulates that you can only have 12 active players, a team must have at least 13 players with one being inactive, you can change them daily, and they can be inactive for as little as one game.       Actually this is right from the cba.  Each team is required to carry 12 players on its active list and one player on its inactive list (which will replace the injured list).  Teams may have a maximum of three players on their inactive list (subject to hardship rules, which will apply in the event that a team with three injured players on its inactive list has a fourth player that suffers an injury).  Players sent to the NBA Development League (see below) will continue to count on a team&amp;#039;s inactive list.  
