The Reserve Bank has held crisis meetings with the managed funds industry as the distorting effects of bank deposit guarantees ravaging Australia's financial sector hit New Zealand.The meeting of financial sector stakeholders and government officials is to put a regulatory halt to the devastation wrought on the $60 billion-plus industry that threatens to feed into the wider economy.Two senior lawyers, Kensington Swan's David Ireland and Ross Pennington at Russell McVeagh, say the mismanaged guarantee scheme could potentially damage the economy as the productive sector struggles to get its hands on capital. 'The deposit guarantee could result in a giant leap backwards in terms of the embryonic progress that had been taking place in our capital markets,'' Pennington said. Ireland likened the guarantee to dropping napalm on the finance sector, with the resultant deforestation leading to economic losses in future years.He spoke to the Independent on Tuesday, predicting the first fund freezes would hit this week. Within an hour AXA New Zealand froze three of its mortgage-backed funds, with $225 million under management, because they are excluded from the Crown guarantee.AXA chief executive Ralph Stewart said investors were running scared at the perception the funds aren't safe without a Government backing.In Australia funds worth more than A$24 billion have been frozen said Vance Arkinstall, chief executive of the Investment Savings and Insurance Association whose members manage more than $60 billion in New Zealand. Of Australia's 20 largest funds, 13 have now frozen withdrawals as a result of the Rudd government's decision to guarantee only bank lenders. 'We're going to see exactly the same situation in New Zealand,'' Arkinstall said. Stewart said it was galling his three mortgage-backed funds - with equity of 40% - would be deserted in favour of depositing money in finance companies. Pennington: 'It has thrown fund managers right under a bus.'' Arkinstall wants the government to widen the guarantee to include the managed funds and corporate bond sector, despite the potential cost to taxpayers.Stewart said he wasn't asking for a guarantee on liquid funds, where the risk is known and understood, but mortgage-backed securities needed government support. Victoria University economics and finance professor Roger Bowden said the government and the Reserve Bank have mismanaged the scheme. Both had panicked following the Australian government's move on October 12. 'It was a panicked, knee-jerk response. They should have started at the wholesale end and then seen how far you can go.'' The big five commercial banks funded their lending from short-term commercial paper in London, he said. That funding was no longer available. 'Reading between the lines, that's why ANZ National and Westpac have gone cap in hand to the Reserve Bank,'' Bowden said of the banks' decision to trade mortgage-backed securities for liquidity.The government and governor Alan Bollard are working on the details of a wholesale funding guarantee but it was almost too late, he said.If they had chosen a wholesale guarantee first the banks could still have borrowed from London's money markets, since they were backed by the New Zealand Government, and the Reserve Bank could have methodically worked on a comprehensive scheme for the rest of the industry if it was needed.Bowden said it was important to remember New Zealand banks were safe and it was only the fear of investor flight to Australia that made the issue urgent. 'It will take a big return of [investor] confidence before fund managers can sleep easy at night.'' Given the distortions the guarantee has introduced, the Reserve Bank is now having to devise regulation for 'macro-economic protection'' not just the finance sector, he said. 'How do you protect the economy?'' Even so, he doesn't favour a blanket guarantee: 'The contingent liability would just be too huge.'' Pennington said not acting was already proving costly to the economy: '[The guarantee] immediately threw pricing into disarray across the market. It has resulted in high-quality issuers reconsidering retail issues that would have enhanced the local savings market. 'It has turned the clock back on differentiation _ what's the advantage of having a high credit rating in this environment when the only question is, is this guaranteed?'' Ireland said central banks around the world are facing the same issues and ''are scrambling for a sensible solution''. He and Pennington say the government had to act to protect investor flight but, given the seriousness of the situation, it was now beholden to protect the rest of the financial sector.Swathes of wealth will be destroyed by investors seeking the appearance of safety because they will exit the market at its nadir, crystalising huge losses. It's not just managed funds. As AXA's Stewart noted, 'large New Zealand corporates have major issues raising capital''. In that scenario, the shallow recession becomes deep and prolonged. 'We're all in strife now,'' said Bowden.
