TOKYO, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Japan's economics minister questioned the effectiveness of any interest rate cut by the Bank of Japan on Friday, downplaying market speculation of joint rate cuts by major central banks amid worsening financial turmoil. Talk grew about interest rate cuts, perhaps coordinated, after the European Central Bank highlighted further risks to the European economy, signalling it might cut interest rates for the first time in five years. Economics Minister Kaoru Yosano, who has been a proponent of a rate rise once Japan's economy improves, urged the BOJ and the finance ministry to boost international cooperation to help contain the fallout of the U.S. financial shake-up, but he said a rate cut in Japan would not do much to achieve that goal. 'Solely lowering the interest rate target, in reality, would not have much impact,' Yosano told a news conference. The BOJ is likely to keep its policy rate at an already low 0.5 percent when its rate-setting board meets next week, although it is expected to warn of further weakness in the economy. [ID:nT70058] An immediate rate cut, however, is seen as unlikely, as the BOJ has been saying that it remains vigilant against consumer inflation, which is running at a decade-high. 'BOJ officials would feel odd to hear the phrase 'coordinated action on interest rates',' said Kyohei Morita, chief economist at Barclays (nyse: BCS - news - people ) Capital. 'The rate-cut option would not be on the table unless the BOJ thinks the Japanese economy will be severely damaged in the future.' Economists say the BOJ may cut its growth forecasts for Japan, but they expect it to maintain its view that the world's No.2 economy will eventually overcome its current sluggishness and return to a moderate growth path. But as U.S. banks continue to suffer from funding problems, expectations of a rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve are rising, possibly in coordination with other global central banks. Two top Federal Reserve officials, however, pushed back against market expectations of a big U.S. interest-rate cut later this month, saying that monetary policy was already easy and inflation still a concern. LITTLE ECONOMIC RELIEF FROM U.S. BAILOUT PACKAGE Many investors are hoping that the U.S. Congress will approve a revised $700 billion financial industry bailout package later in the day, but fears about a global recession persist. Japanese Finance Minister Shoichi Nakagawa said on Friday that he was watching developments over the U.S. financial rescue bill and also called for cooperation among major economies. 'Each country should make efforts and cooperate with each other so that the United States, Japan and the EU, and the world can move in the right direction,' he told a news conference. Yosano, who has been a vocal proponent of the BOJ's independence from political pressures, said that the central bank is taking the right steps to address the latest market turmoil. 'The Bank of Japan's efforts to provide abundant liquidity (to the money market) is an appropriate and effective policy,' he said. (Additional reporting by Yoko Nishikawa; Editing by Chris Gallagher).nt   Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.   
