The Government is to invest up to 37 billion in RBS, HBOS and Lloyds TSB, it was announced today.The cash injection is part of a 'rescue package' to help stabilise the UK's banks and building societies and support the long-term strength of the economy. RBS will receive 20 billion, and HBOS and Lloyds TSB will get 17 billion upon successful merger. As part of the deal, the banks agreed not to pay their directors cash bonuses this year, but to give them shares instead in an attempt to encourage a more long-term approach.The banks will also return mortgage and small business lending to last year's levels which is significantly above what they are lending currently.Industry Responses: CMLIn response to the announcement, a statement from the Council of Mortgage Lenders reads: The CML doubts whether, in the current market where house prices have been falling and demand has reduced, it would be either prudent or desirable for the volume of lending to home-owners to equate to 2007 levels. The CML assumes that the reference is a more generic aspiration to achieving a broad, deep mortgage market in general with a good spread of products enabling access to the mortgage market for all credit-worthy borrowers - and this would be an aspiration that the CML wholeheartedly supports.And CML director general, Michael Coogan, says: 'Lenders have been working hard to continue to deliver a flow of competitive mortgages into the market, as well as to ensure that as many people as possible are able to keep their homes if they suffer temporary financial difficulties. 'These efforts will continue, and we look forward to working closely with Government to help deliver these objectives.' Capital EconomicsJonathan Loynes, Chief European Economist at Capital Economics, notes: 'The details of the bank recapitalisation plan announced this morning suggest that the immediate risks to the public finances and UK taxpayers may be even greater than previously thought. 'For a start, the initial amounts involved appear to be rather bigger, with the Government planning to inject around 40bn in the near-term compared to the initial sum of 25bn estimated last week. 'Presumably this figure could rise further. Second, it appears that the bulk of this injection will be in the form of ordinary shares, rather than preference shares as previously expected. 'And third, the injections into some banks like RBS and HBOS are big enough to mean that it is very likely that they will be treated as fully nationalised for the purposes of the public accounts, thereby adding their liabilities (less liquid assets) to the published level of public sector debt. 'This would push the debt to GDP ratio well above 100 per cent. 'Of course, the government will argue that these are special factors and continue to focus on a level of debt which excludes these liabilities, as it has with Northern Rock. 'Whats more, if the plans help to prevent an even worse downturn in the economy, then they may end up having a positive effect on the public finances over the longer-term. But public borrowing and debt are already set to rise sharply as a result of the slowdown in the economy already seen. These extra developments merely increase the likelihood that, at some point in the future, very heavy tax increases or spending cuts will be required to get the public finances back into a sustainable position.
