HIGH-FLYERS at the top end of town are offloading their prestige cars and boats. Big hitters in the banking, finance, accounting and investment world are struggling with the economic downturn. Those who took out margin loans to chase the bull market are facing the dangers of this practice being visited upon them tenfold. Latest Reserve Bank figures show that 206,000 clients have taken out $31.8 billion in margin loans. Lenders are making 360 margin calls a day on average, demanding their money back after the share values have fallen past a certain point. One Sydney car dealership has been shocked by the number of these margin-call clients, usually young men, wanting to sell their Ferraris, Bentleys, Porsches or Aston Martins for quick cash to settle their debts. Brothers Nasser and Steven Elkordi, from Modena Prestige Cars in east Sydney, said at least four 'casualties' a week had visited their showrooms over the past two months. An investment bank director had sold three cars to meet his margin loan debts last month, they said. The brothers no longer take certain makes of vehicles because they cannot shift the stock through retail or wholesale channels. 'They come in, dive out - always for a loss,' Nasser Elkordi, the director of Modena, said. 'I feel sympathy [for the sellers]. They haggle, which is normal. But that only lasts five minutes before I hand over the cheque. At the end of the day they know they have to offload. They only have days to pay back the loan.' CommSec chief economist Craig James said the mainly younger investors in their 20s and 30s were affected. These young players were highly geared and had never experienced tough times in the financial markets before, he said. 'This fallout is quite concentrated to Sydney,' he said. 'It tends to be those who were late into the market, about 12 to 18 months ago. They have no experience of what happened in 1987, 2000/2001 and 1997.' The Sydney Boating Show recorded a 13.6 per cent fall in visitor numbers this year. Boating Industry Association of NSW president Roy Privett said the show, which catered for trailer boat and luxury vessel markets, was a good economic barometer. Another example of the fallout is Australians returning home from London, New York and Tokyo in record numbers following mass job cuts in financial services and banking. Recruitment agencies say they have been inundated with expats looking for work in the Australian market, which has been relatively unscathed by the fall of global markets. Link Recruitment client services general manager Jason Cartwright said: 'In March we noticed a trickle of Australians coming back home. By June and July there was quite a flow and now it's a tsunami.' With a masters of international business on his resume and a thirst for travel, Andrew Greenhalgh left his job at a major Australian bank to take advantage of the lucrative financial services sector in London in 2004. He worked for Credit Suisse in London and Zurich for four years, returning home to Sydney in February, just before the credit crunch hit. Mr Greenhalgh, 29, from Paddington, said recruitment agencies in Britain had warned expats that tough times were coming, but no one expected the scale of the retrenchments. He landed a job at St George Bank within weeks of returning, but competition is set to be much tougher now. 'Just as traders look for safe stocks such as gold when the market slides, it's human instinct to look for safety, and when you're overseas there's no safety zone of family and friends to support you if things go wrong,' Mr Greenhalgh said. 
