Like many other lenders around the world hit by the global credit crisis, British banks are scrambling to raise funds to shore up ailing balance sheets. HBOS has accepted a takeover bid from its rival Lloyds TSB Group.Neither Commonwealth nor BankWest was willing to willing to comment on the likely size of a deal, but local news reports said it could be worth 2 billion Australian dollars, or $1.45 billion.Commonwealth said no agreement had been reached.Consolidation in Australia's banking sector has been widely expected as its big four players bulk up to weather the financial market turmoil.Westpac Banking, another large Australian bank, is close to acquiring St. George, while Suncorp-Metway said Monday that it had received several approaches for its banking unit. 'It's an opportunity which gives them a slightly larger footprint,' said Angus Gluskie, portfolio manager at White Funds Management. 'It obviously strengthens Commonwealth's position in the west.' Consolidation is 'a process that people have talked about for many years, but the opportunities have only just arisen in this challenging market,' Gluskie said. Tim Morris, an equities analyst at Wise-Owl.com, based in Sydney, said on Bloomberg Television: 'They're definitely looking to gain exposure to what's seen as the biggest growth state in Australia, and quite a gripping brand. Unlike America and some parts of Europe, the opportunities for M&amp;amp;A in Australia are more limited because the market is more concentrated.' HBOS Australia consists of BankWest Retail; BankWest Business; St. Andrew's, an insurance and wealth management company; BOS International, a corporate lending division; and Capital Finance, an asset finance company. BankWest's parent, HBOS, is being taken over by the British bank Lloyds TSB in a British government-sponsored deal after it ran into funding difficulties amid the global credit crisis.BankWest had about 36.7 billion Australian dollars in deposits as of Sept. 5. The company has about 120 branches in Western Australia, a state that produces one-third of the world's traded iron ore and 75 percent of the nation's gold. According to the HBOS Web site, BankWest plans to open 160 more branches across the country.Commonwealth Bank rose 2.6 percent to close at 45.15 dollars in Sydney trading, trimming its year-to-date loss to 24 percent.HBOS plunged 61 percent in London trading last month on concerns about a shortage of funds to back its mortgages, leaving the company in the same predicament that led to the government-backed bailout of Northern Rock a year ago. HBOS raised 
