SYDNEY, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Australia boasted its biggest trade surplus in over a decade in August as coal shipments surged and imports of fuel fell sharply, cushioning economic growth at home even as the global outlook takes a turn for the worse. The local dollar edged up after the government on Thursday reported a surplus of A$1.36 billion ($1.07 billion) for August, a huge turnaround from July's A$697 million deficit. It was the largest surplus since June 1997 and far surpassed market forecasts of A$300 million. 'It's a very strong result and all the signs are that we'll see more of these in coming months,' said Michael Workman, a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank. 'That should help counter the consumer blues here.' Exports earnings would be helped by the fall of the Australian dollar in the past couple of months while imports were being squeezed by slowing domestic consumption, he said. Exports rose 6.4 percent in August to A$24.61 billion, thanks in large part to a 26 percent jump in earnings from coal. Australia is a major commodity exporter and has benefited hugely from the rise of China and India as voracious consumers of resources. Imports dropped 2.4 percent to A$23.25 billion, with a sharp 25 percent fall in fuel imports more than outweighing a doubling in the bill for aircraft imports. Vehicle imports have also taken a turn lower as demand cools in the face of high petrol prices and rising living costs. The resulting expansion in net exports implied trade should add to economic growth in the third quarter, helping offset softness in household consumption. 'It looks like trade could contribute say around say 0.3 percentage points to growth, which certainly lessens the risk of a negative outcome,' said CBA's Workman. A$ SLIDE A GOOD THING The economy has been slowing steadily this year as high interest rates and rising living costs depressed household spending and borrowing. Indeed, the latest turmoil in global markets and a tightening in financial conditions has fanned speculation the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) will cut the 7.0 percent cash rate at its monthly policy meeting next week, perhaps by an aggressive 50 basis points. Analysts are also worried that a dimming outlook for world growth will eventually hurt both the demand for and the price of Australia's commodity exports. Then again, contract prices for coal and iron ore, the country's two biggest exports, are not up for review until next April, so will stay at record highs for some months yet. Also, a sharp fall in the Australian dollar in the past couple of months has cushioned export earnings since commodities are priced in U.S. dollars. RBA data out this week showed the price of the country's commodities in local dollars jumped 6.1 percent to an all-time high in September even as spot prices were falling. 'The deterioration in the global economy will likely feed into contract prices next year,' said Stephen Koukoulas, global strategist at TD Securities. 'But for the moment, Australia is still in the midst of a massive income and terms of trade boost that is showing up in strong national income growth, a turn to trade surpluses and relative resilience in the pace of economic growth,' he added. (Editing by Jonathan Standing).lwCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
