1:00 pm ET Executives George Pipas - Ford Sales Analyst Emily Kolinski Morris - Ford Senior US Economist James D. Farley - Group Vice President - Marketing and Communications and US Marketing, Sales and Service Analysts [Brian Johnson] - Barclays Capital Christopher Ceraso - Credit Suisse Patrick Archambault - Goldman Sachs Mark Wamsman - Calyon Securities, LLC Rod Lache - Deutsche Bank Securities Media Bryce Hoffman - The Detroit News Tom Krisher - Associated Press Sharon Carty - USA Today David Kiley - BusinessWeek Presentation Operator Welcome to the Ford monthly sales conference call. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the presentation over to our host for todays call, George Pipas, Ford Sales Analyst. George Pipas Thanks for participating in this September sales call at Ford. Id like to introduce Jim Farley, Ford Group Vice President, Marketing and Communications, who is joining us today as well as Emily Kolinski Morris, Fords Senior US Economist. Id like to begin with some comments about industry sales and segment trends and speak a little bit about incentives and our own sales results. As far as the industry goes, we estimate the September sales rate was something less than $13 million even including medium and heavy trucks. That means that for the second month in the third quarter the overall sales rate was in the 12s. We estimate that industry-wide sales of cars and trucks were fewer than 1 million and that would put the percentage decline from last September in the 25% to 30% range. For sure retail sales were more than 30% lower than a year ago for the industry. The third quarter SAAR would be 13.1 million. The trajectory in 2008 goes something like this: Q1 15.3, that would be the light vehicle sales rate; Q2 14.3; and in the third quarter something in the 12s. Confronted with this trajectory the question is, have we reached the bottom or is the bottom still ahead of us? And Im going to ask Emily to weigh in on that question later in the call. As far as industry segment trends are concerned, we see much the same story as we did last month. When you compare the share of each segment to a year ago, small and mid-size car segments have increased their share of the total industry. They got that higher share from medium and large utility segments; in other words, traditional SUVs. The full-size pickup segment was about the same size relative to the overall industry as it was a year ago. The sequential story however shows something different just as it did in July. Since May, small and mid-size car segments are weaker as a percentage of the total industry and full-size trucks and SUVs are stronger. In last months call we discussed the factors contributing to the recovery in the full-size pickup segment and the decline in the small car segment. Well, first of all is incentive spending. If you look at full-size truck incentive spending since May, its as much as $2,000 higher industry-wide and as much as $4,000 higher than last September. Second, residual values have improved on trucks and SUVs relative to where they were in May. So that means some of the people that couldnt get out of their truck in May and June are now in a better position to trade particularly with the higher levels of incentive spending that we saw in some areas. Third, gas prices have declined and thats a welcome development, not just for full-size truck buyers but for all consumers. Fourth, some buyers postponed their purchases earlier this summer and now will be back in the market with these higher levels of incentives. With regard to incentive trends, its hard to generalize. It certainly depends on the segment as Ive alluded to and it depends on the manufacturers. Hard to generalize. Ford and Honda, Toyota and Nissan reduced incentive spending on a per unit basis from August to September. GM and Chrysler increased. Within segments as I mentioned earlier, incentive spend on full-size pickups has increased sharply since earlier this summer and against a year ago while incentive spending on cars, particularly small cars, has declined. I think this is a very interesting development that even as the industry sales rate is weaker than it was in the second quarter, manufacturers have reduced in the aggregate at least the incentive spend on small cars. As far as Ford sales are concerned, as you can see from our sales report the overall result was down 34% compared with last September. Retail sales were down 35%. And as I said, we believe the industry-wide retail sales are down more than 30%. I think the truth is that you could throw a blanket around all the year-to-year comparisons for all the manufacturers and it would cover everybody. Our fleet mix was 23%. We also had in addition to the retail sales decline a fleet sales decline of 29% this month. So our fleet mix was 23% which we believe to be easily the lowest among the Big Three for the second straight month. Obviously these are very challenging times. On the bright side were encouraged to see our retail share club back from June lows despite the escalation in competitive spending. Emily, Id like to ask you to make some comments on the current situation. Emily Kolinski Morris Clearly we are looking at a very fragile economy and we have this renewed credit market turmoil adding another dimension to what was already a strained business and consumer environment. The freezing up of short-term credit markets in recent weeks has become more severe than other recent episodes. Policy measures to restore market liquidity will be critical to stabilize the financial sector and to preserve the functioning of the economy in the coming months. While policymakers are working aggressively to address the situation, we cannot yet see the path to its resolution. Some degree of impact to the real economy is unavoidable at this point and as long as these credit market channels remain closed to consumers and businesses, the real economy may face some serious repercussions in the form of business failures, rising unemployment and a sharp pullback in consumer spending. Lets keep in mind that incoming indicators during the month of September were already pointing to further weakening in the economy. As the fiscal stimulus payments faded from view, [supplanted] by tighter credit conditions and rising unemployment. The falling gas prices that weve seen will provide some offset for consumers acting as an effective tax cut to boost disposable income. In the current environment however, we continue to expect an increase in precautionary saving by household as weve discussed in previous calls. Given this fragility of conditions in the financial markets and the potential for additional economic spillover, we have to consider the near-term risks to the economy and the industry. In the third quarter weve seen industry performance averaging around 13 million units on a SAAR basis with support from incentive spending. This pricing and other market factors may generate volume swings both up and down on a month-to-month basis but its unlikely that well see any significant improvement in the underlying trend of sales any time soon. Given the lack of resolution to the financial crisis, I dont think anyone can say where the bottom might be but were continuing to monitor conditions as they unfold to assess the forecast sensitivity as these developments continue in the coming weeks. James D. Farley I know a couple months ago we said the credit situation would take center stage in the second half of the year, and regrettably we were right. That didnt take into consideration the two storms we had in September, both Ike and the economic hurricane. Our point of view was always that dealers, businesses, consumers would find credit increasingly difficult to get and obtain, and thatd slow consumer spending. As Emily said, the present situation is very fragile. The level of uncertainty has been elevated at the consumer level if you think about what our consumers going through in September. Even if you have good credit, theres a reluctance to pull the trigger on a big ticket item. And many customers are waiting and seeing and thats the attitude theyre taking. There are some exceptions by region of the country and segments. Itll take some time to work through this credit situation for our customers and we cant be certain how long its going to take. So what do we do? I think the best way were looking at that at Ford Motor Company is to execute our plan. Weve embarked on a plan to leverage our global assets, to be profitable at lower volumes, to be aggressive at adjusting our production, to take advantage of mix and accelerate the development of products that people want to buy. So times like this really represent the best opportunity for us to make progress against our competitors to the advantage of our customers. In the middle of all the swirling storm around us, the marketing sales team at Ford is calm in the middle of the storm working on our brand and working on the plans to launch 10 brand new vehicles in essentially nine months or launching a brand new vehicle almost every month through the summer of next year. Were also getting ready for our assault on the small vehicle market in 2010. Since launching vehicles has been such a big part of what we do here at Ford in the coming months, I guess its probably important to reflect on where we are with Flex, MKS and of course the F-150. The Flex and MKS, September marked the start of our national marketing launch for Flex and its really important for us because of our four point plan to build products that people really want, to look at the quality of customers that were getting with our new products. Essentially thats our plan and Im really excited to see how customers are reacting to Flex and MKS. The conquest rates increase every month. In fact our conquest rates now for Flex are higher than any Ford product with the exception of the Escape Hybrid. Flex is attracting a v...
