(PR Newswire Europe via COMTEX News Network) -- GARTMORE GLOBAL TRUST PLCHalf-Yearly Unaudited Results for the six months to 31 July 2008Summary* Net Asset Value per Ordinary share, with debt at fair value, decreased from 302.1 pence to 295.0 pence, a fall of 2.4%. This compares with a decrease of 7.3% in the Company's benchmark index.* Mid-market price per Ordinary share decreased from 271.50 pence to 270.00 pence, a fall of 0.6%.* Interim dividend increased by 20% to 2.4 pence per ordinary share.* The average discount of the middle market price per Ordinary share to the Net Asset Value was 7.3% over the six months.Chairman's StatementThe Net Asset Value per Ordinary share (including revenue and with debt at fair value) decreased over the six months to 295.0 pence from 302.1 pence, a 2.4% fall. The Company's composite benchmark index, which comprises 50% FTSE All-Share Index and 50% Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index ex UK in sterling terms fell by 7.3 % over the six month period, thus the Company has again exceeded its investment target of out performing its benchmark by 2%. In these unique and tricky market conditions, the portfolio has stood up remarkably well and our fund manager is to be congratulated on his performance over a difficult period.Over the six-months the mid market price of the Company's Ordinary shares fell 0.6% to 270 pence from 271.5 pence. The average discount of the mid-market price per Ordinary share to the Net Asset Value over the period was 7.3%.The Group revenue return per Ordinary share for the six months to 31 July 2008 was 5.44 pence compared with 3.76 pence for the corresponding period last year.In my last Statement to shareholders, I reported on Her Majesty's Revenue &amp;amp; Customs' acceptance of the European Court of Justice judgement that fund management services should be exempt from value added tax. Our Manager reports that the process of recovering the VAT previously charged on management fees is well advanced and thus a prospective recovery of GBP900,000 has been accrued, split between revenue and capital in the proportions originally charged. The cessation of VAT charges on management fees and accrual for recovery of past VAT contributed approximately 1.5 pence to the revenue improvement over the period.The Board has declared a first interim dividend of 2.4 pence per Ordinary share to be paid on 31 October 2008 to shareholders on the register on 10 October 2008.The Company continues to exercise its power to buy-back shares in order to support the discount control mechanism and augment shareholder value. In the six months it repurchased 1,145,000 Ordinary shares for cancellation, being 2.7% of the shares in issue, at an average discount of 8.1% with debt at fair value.In accordance with The Association of Investment Companies' recommendation to its members, from May this year the Company has published daily its Net Asset Value including revenue. This will give a better indication of the discount at which the shares trade than the previous 'ex-revenue' standard NAV. However, we expect that information disseminators will continue to publish performance information on the 'ex' basis until they have sufficient comparative information on the new basis.Brian O'Neill, our fund manager, supported by his team continues to manage the portfolio using his stock picking strengths to enhance the value of the Company. The Company has remained underweight in Financial stocks and maintained a cash balance of between 5% and 14 % of net assets throughout the period. The cash balance at the end of the period was 13.8%.Although Brian O'Neill's official retirement date is in early 2009, he informs us that he does not intend to retire in the foreseeable future. Brian is supported by a highly experienced global equity team and the Board and the Manager maintain an ongoing dialogue on the subject to ensure a seamless succession in due course.Shareholders will be aware of the extreme volatility in the markets, which has prevailed throughout the period and may continue for some time yet. The Manager has been cautious throughout the six months to 31 July by maintaining a defensive stance in these testing times. However, the situation is being monitored continuously with a view to seek opportunities to deploy the Company's liquidity.Richard BernaysChairman30 September 2008Manager's ReviewThe investment policy seeks to achieve capital growth from a concentrated portfolio of international stocks. The core of the portfolio comprises 40 stocks, which at 31 July 2008 represented 86.2% of the portfolio, with the top ten holdings representing 32.3 %.The Company's trading subsidiary is used to enhance returns and during the period, a return of GBP155,000 was achieved.Benchmark IndexThe Company's benchmark index is a composite comprising 50% FSTE All-Share Index and 50% MSCI World Index ex UK (in sterling terms). The Manager aims to outperform the benchmark by at least 2% within a tracking error of not more than 5%.During the six months to 31 July 2008 the tracking error averaged 4.3% (i.e. within the range) but the Net Asset Value, with debt at fair value, outperformed the benchmark index by 4.9%.StrategyWe remained underweighted to equities over the period, maintaining cash balances, which at the end of the period were around 13% of assets.Our sector weightings in energy and materials are broadly unchanged but we are less overweight materials as its sector weighting in the index has increased and we are now marginally underweight in energy. Similarly, we are now less underweight in both financials and health care than earlier.The geographical breakdown of the portfolio is broadly unchanged over the period. We remain overweight in the Pacific Rim and underweight in both the UK and North America.Portfolio PerformanceFelix Resources, an emerging Australian coal company which had been a strong performer the previous year, continued to perform well, rising by 190% as it announced a profits upgrade and stated that it had received a number of bid approaches. We took profits on our holding over the period as it appreciated.Other energy companies to perform well include BG, up 4.4%, the Canadian gas company Encana, up 10.2%, and Suncor Energy, up 16.4%. In contrast, BP fell by 2.1% not helped by continuing uncertainties over its Russian interests. Materials stocks again performed well, Freeport McMoran Copper and Gold up 9.4%, and Syngenta, the crop protection and seeds company, up 12.0%, both in sterling terms.Other large portfolio holdings which performed well included British American Tobacco, up 1.9%, and Oracle, up 5.4%. Vodafone, down 22.4%, was the weakest of our larger holdings as its Spanish operation performed poorly. Weak performances also came from CRH, impacted by the US housing slowdown and Continental Airlines, hurt by the higher oil price.As might be expected, our financial stocks performed poorly, ANZ bank down 34% and Lloyds TSB bank down 33%. Only DBS, the Singaporean bank, up 14.8%, produced a positive return although Standard Chartered proved relatively defensive, down 6.9%.Economic and Market BackgroundWorld stock markets were extremely volatile over the period under review. They fell in the early part of spring but recovered to push higher into May. Markets then fell sharply before recovering somewhat by the end of July. The table below shows the performance in sterling terms of the major indices over the six months to 31 July 2008.FTA All-Share -8.4%MSCI World ex UK -9.8%S&amp;amp;P 500 Composite -7.7%Topix -4.4%FTSE Europe ex UK -9.7%Nasdaq Composite +0.8%Markets over the six months under review have been dominated by oil and commodity markets and the continuing problems in the financial sector. Despite some signs of weakness in the global economy, the oil price rose inexorably with Brent rising from US$95 per barrel at the start of the year to a high of US$145 per barrel before some signs of weakness in demand particularly in the US saw oil sell off to end the period at US$125 per barrel. At the same time, there has been strength in a number of other commodities including coal, grain and a number of other foodstuffs. As a result, there has been a marked pick-up in rates of inflation not just in developing markets (which are more dependent on food) but also in developed markets. As a result, given that a number of countries have inflation targets (including the UK), there is less scope globally to reduce rates to offset slowing economies. Indeed, the need to raise interest rates has seen pressure on equity markets in emerging markets such as Brazil and India. In the more developed markets, there has been upwards pressure on bond yields, US$10 year bond yields up over 90 basis points at one stage. The fall in the oil price has seen yields drift off in recent weeks, but rising bond yields did little to help the beleaguered financial sector. Extreme pressure in credit markets saw the Fed-inspired takeover of Bear Stearns in the Spring, which saw a major rally in financial stocks. However this was followed by a bout of major fund raisings, notably in the UK, which together with severe write downs saw renewed pressure into the summer monthsThe period under review has seen extreme volatility both in terms of individual stocks and markets. The Brazilian market was at one stage strong on the back of rising commodity prices, the Bovespa up 23% in local terms, but falling commodity prices has left the market, in local terms, down 6% over the period. One of our stocks, JPMorgan, widely regarded as one of the safer financials, had closed the previous year strongly at US$47. It traded higher to US$49.25 but then fell to a low of US$31 before recovering to end the period at US$37. Norway, helped by oil and fertilisers, was the strongest market, up 14.5% in sterling terms, while Ireland, with a large bank weighting, was down 30%. A number of markets held up well, the DAX was flat over the period,...
