Stocks struggle on bailout questions Stocks inch lower ahead of Friday's Senate vote on the $14 billion auto industry bill. NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- Stocks struggled Thursday afternoon, as investors showed caution ahead of an anticipated Senate vote on the $14 billion auto industry bailout. The Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) lost 0.3% with 2-1/2 hours left in the session. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 (SPX) index also lost 0.3% and the Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 0.6%. Stocks rallied Wednesday on reports that Congress and the White House had reached a deal on a $14 billion auto bailout. On Wednesday night, the House of Representatives passed the bill 237 to 170, due to strong Democratic support. A minority of Republicans supported the bill, but there's concern that Republican opposition could sink it in the Senate, which votes Friday. The protracted process of debating, discussing and ultimately creating a bill has kept stocks from moving significantly after the recent advance, said Gary Webb, CEO at Webb Financial Group. "The delays and the appearance of negative news is bothering the market," Webb said. "Wall Street is impatient and wants them (Congress) to get it wrapped up soon," he added. "But like with the $700 billion bailout, which took ten days, Congress wants to get it right, not just do it fast." Should the Senate shoot down the bill in its current form, that would spark a big selloff in the short-term, Webb said. However, he doesn't think the market will get much of a boost if Congress passes a bailout because investors are already anticipating that automakers will get assistance. Experts say the failure of any one of the Big Three could trigger massive job losses and send the U.S. deeper into recession. The dollar declined versus other currencies, sending oil and gold prices higher. Treasury prices slipped, sending the corresponding yields higher. Automakers: The $14 billion auto sector bailout is seen as a stopgap measure that will keep GM and Chrysler from filing for bankruptcy - at least through the end of March. This would give the Obama administration and the new Congress time to come up with a more permanent solution for the ailing automakers. Ford Motor is also eligible for part of the loan, but the company said it doesn't need the cash right now. Ford just wants access to the money in case it needs a backstop. Shares of GM (GM, Fortune 500) lost 7% and Ford Motor (F, Fortune 500) lost 4%. Economic news: Jobless claims continued to surge, according to a government report released Thursday. The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits rose to a 26-year high of 573,000, up 58,000 from the previous week and a bigger surge than expected. The number of people continuing to collect unemployment also hit a 26-year high. Another report showed that the trade gap widened in October, although forecasts were for it to narrow. The widening reflected the recent plunge in U.S. exports as the economy has weakened. The U.S. has been in a recession since December 2007, according to a National Bureau of Economic Research report released last week. A majority of top-level executives think the recession will last at least another year, according to a survey by Duke University released Wednesday. Stock movers: Drugmaker Eli Lilly (LLY, Fortune 500) warned that it will post a big loss for 2008 and lower earnings in 2009 due to costs related to its $6.5 billion purchase of ImClone. Shares gained 3%. Consumer products maker Procter &amp; Gamble (PG, Fortune 500) warned that current-quarter sales won't meet its previous forecast due to slower worldwide sales amid the recession. Shares inched lower. A number of financial services stocks fell in response to the weak economic news and questions about a bailout. American Express (AXP, Fortune 500), Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500), Citigroup (C, Fortune 500) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500) were among the decliners. Metal and mining shares jumped in response to a rally in the underlying commodity prices. Gainers included Alcoa (AA, Fortune 500), Yamana Gold (AUY), Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold (FCX, Fortune 500). Market breadth was mixed. On the New York Stock Exchange, losers and winners were narrowly mixed on volume of 510 million shares. On the Nasdaq, decliners beat advancers by a narrow margin on 840 million shares. Bonds: Treasury prices inched lower, raising the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.70% from 2.68% Wednesday. The 10-year yield dipped below 3% last month for the first time since the note was first issued in 1962. Treasury prices and yields move in opposite directions. Lending rates improved modestly. The 3-month Libor rate slipped to 2% from 2.1% Wednesday, according to Bloomberg. The overnight Libor held steady at a record low of 0.12%. Libor is a key bank lending rate. Other markets: In global trading, Asian markets were mixed, with the Japanese Nikkei rising 0.7%. European markets were also mixed, with the London FTSE up 0.5% and the German DAX down 0.8%. The dollar fell versus the euro and the yen. U.S. light crude oil for January delivery rose $4.33 to $47.85 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. COMEX gold for February delivery jumped $21.20 to $830 an ounce. Gasoline continued its fall to four-year lows, with prices down 1.9 cents to a national average of $1.664 a gallon, according to a survey of credit-card swipes released Thursday by motorist group AAA. Prices have been sliding for almost three months and have dropped more than $2 a gallon, or 57%
