Stock futures extend losses after economic reports Friday December 12, 9:16 am ET By Sara Lepro, AP Business Writer Wall Street heads for sharply lower open after Senate rejects auto bill, bleak economic data NEW YORK (AP) -- Wall Street headed for a plunge at the opening of trading Friday as the Senate's rejection of a $14 billion lifeline for the auto industry, combined with more bleak economic data, intensified investors' concerns about a deepening recession. ADVERTISEMENT The defeat of the bailout bill late Thursday has prompted calls from lawmakers for the Bush administration to use a portion of the $700 billion financial rescue package to prop up the struggling companies. The bill failed after the United Auto Workers refused to meet Republican demands for big wage cuts. General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC have said they could run out of cash within weeks without government help. Ford Motor Co., which would also be eligible for aid under the bill, has said it has enough cash to make it through next year. The failure of the bill is feeding investors' concerns about job losses. More evidence of the battered labor market came late Thursday, as Bank of America Corp. said it expected to cut as many as 35,000 jobs over the next three years, including some from investment bank Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., which it agreed to buy in September. Meanwhile, the Commerce Department said Friday that retail sales fell by 1.8 percent in November. Though slightly below the 1.9 percent slide that economists expected, the drop marks the fifth straight monthly decline -- a period of weakness never before seen on the government's retail sales records. The weakness was led by a 2.8 percent drop in auto sales. Adding to the day's downbeat news, the Labor Department said wholesale prices sank in November for the fourth straight month, raising deflation fears. The Producer Price Index, which tracks costs of goods before they reach consumers, fell 2.2 percent last month -- more than economists expected -- as prices for gasoline and other energy prices retreated, the department said. That followed a record 2.8 percent drop in October. Dow Jones industrial average futures fell 248, or 2.88 percent, to 8,349. Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index futures fell 31.30, or 3.58 percent, to 843.20, while Nasdaq 100 index futures fell 33.00, or 2.77 percent, to 1,157.00. Friday's economic reports underscored investors' growing fear of a severe and prolonged recession. The data followed the Labor Department's announcement Thursday that initial jobless claims rose to the highest level in 26 years last week. Job losses have become investors' primary concern in recent weeks, as companies across many sectors, including AT&amp;T Inc., DuPont, Dow Chemical Co., and Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold Inc., have announced thousands of layoffs. And analysts expect the announcements to keep coming. If one of the automakers declared bankruptcy, some estimate as many as 3 million U.S. jobs could be lost next year. In premarket trading, Ford shares dropped 43 cents, or 15 percent, to $2.47, while GM plummeted $1.09, or 27 percent, to $3.03. Bond prices rose Friday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 2.57 percent from 2.63 percent late Thursday. The yield on the three-month T-bill dipped to 0.01 percent from 0.02 percent late Thursday. The bill has been in great demand because of the safety it offers investors. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell. Light, sweet crude fell $3.53 to $44.45 in electronic premarket trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Markets overseas plunged in response to the failed auto bailout bill. Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said European Union leaders have agreed on a $267 billion economic stimulus package to rescue their recession-hit economies. Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso also announced a new stimulus package to shore up his country's economy. The new package includes $111 billion in tax breaks and public financing and $144 billion to prop up financial markets. Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 5.56 percent. In afternoon trading, Britain's FTSE 100 was down 3.61 percent, Germany's DAX index was down 3.93 percent, and France's CAC-40 was down 4.69 percent. New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com
