HONG KONG, December 23 (Reuters) - These are some of the leading stories in Hong Kong newspapers on Tuesday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy.    HONG KONG ECONOMIC TIMES    -- Locally listed Wing Hung Bank has asked its employees to take one day of no-pay leave per month in its bid to cope with the economic downturn.    APPLE DAILY    -- Legislators have criticised the arbitration service launched by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority as inefficient as it only completed one of 63 Lehman Brothers investment-related cases after one month of work.    MING PAO DAILY NEWS    -- Sources say AIA, the Asian insurance arm of AIG in the US, will seek a local listing after a stake sale of no more than 49 percent. Interested buyers included China Life Insurance.    SING TAO DAILY    -- Morgan Stanley said given current policies and slowing property market China's GDP growth could reach 7.5 percent, still less than the government's 8 percent target.    SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST    -- Profits will take a beating at the mainland's industrial companies as the slump in property prices and exports weigh on consumer demand, economists forecast.    THE STANDARD    -- Two hedge funds run by San Francisco- based Passport Capital took eSun Holdings to court to halt a dilutive share placement at a huge discount to eSun's recent trading range.    HONG KONG ECONOMIC JOURNAL    -- Shaw Brothers announced a share buyback offer with a 64 percent premium under the company's privatisation proposal.    SING PAO    -- The framework for future mobile television service was introduced yesterday. The government decided to offer two mobile TV spectrums next year for licensees to start launching TV services on mobile phones as early as 2010.    TA KUNG PAO    -- Hang Seng Bank said in it research report that Hong Kong's current economic conditions may be as bad as in 1997 when the Asian financial crisis hit. The bank has revised its zero GDP growth prediction for next year to a sharp three-percent contraction.    For mainland China newspapers, see...............    For Shanghai newspapers, see.........    For Taiwan newspapers, see............    Keywords: HONGKONG PRESSDIGEST    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
