The supporters' necks craned upwards, straining as they watched the ball hoofed 25 yards into the air. They waited for it to drop, anticipating the customary bounce and mis-control but this time was different.   In one perfect movement, the wiry Leeds midfielder, barely 10 stone, took the ball perfectly, executed a Cruyff turn and left two Swindon defenders trailing in his wake with an electric burst of pace. Cue begrudging applause and a flurry of elbows nudging into ribs with the question: 'Who's he?'  The answer was Fabian Delph. And Leeds United know once again, like the not-so-distant days of Milner, Smith and Lennon, they have a big talent on their hands.   But the secret's out. Arsenal, Newcastle, Everton, Sunderland and Bolton are just some of the clubs to have shown interest over the past three months in the 18-year-old who has already been capped at England U-19 level. More...    Newcastle's offer, believed to be around 1m, was instantly dismissed and Arsenal, who remain favourites to land him, have been told they may be forced to wait.   Leeds chairman Ken Bates knows an asset when he finds one and was quick yesterday to warn off the predators.   'Fabian Delph will be moving to the Barclays Premier League - but we hope he'll be moving with us via the Championship,' he said defiantly. 'He signed a four-year contract until 2012 and he doesn't want to go anywhere. It's inevitable, if the team does well, predatory upper league clubs will try their luck without success.   'I'm still amazed at a recent offer Newcastle made for Fabian. I won't tell you the content of the fax we sent back, but it did end the conversation.'   Leeds manager Gary McAllister may be persuaded if the money - around 6m - is right and Delph can be returned on loan to continue his education.   One week after Robinho signed for Manchester City from Real Madrid for 34m, McAllister tied Delph with a four-year contract. He said then: 'Football saw a lot of exciting signings last week, but securing Fabian was massive for us. There was big interest in him, from big clubs. But he's not going anywhere.'   At first glance, people could be forgiven for wondering what the fuss is about. But, despite being only 5ft 9in, Bradford-born Delph is strong, quick, skilful and seemingly has brains to match. It helps that he has also begun to find his touch in front of goal.  Team-mate Andy Robinson has no qualms about the youngster's pedigree and the maturity which saw him captain Leeds' reserves at 17. Robinson said: 'Fabian is rangy like the young Stevie Gerrard and has a similar passing range, short and long.   'He also snaps you in the tackle like Gerrard. He's been whacking senior pros in training and the gaffer had to say 'slow down' but it's a sign of confidence in such a young player.   'Right now, he's the first name on the teamsheet. He's going all the way to the Premier League and hopefully he'll take Leeds there, too. We can keep him because of the size of the club and his age.'  WHO ARE YA?
