WEST HAM reserves return to Barclays Premier Reserve League South action with a short trip across London to face Tottenham Hotspur at Leyton Orient.  England under-19 defender Jordan Spence will play at centre-back alongside Bondz N'Gala.  Uruguay international left-back Walter Lopez could also feature, along with young goalkeeper Adam Street and Academy products Daniel Kearns and Kyel Reid.  However, former Spain international striker Diego Tristan could be left out ahead of Saturday's Premier League clash with Everton at Upton Park.  Reserve team manager Alex Dyer has recorded two wins in three matches since taking over from Kevin Keen and is looking to continue that encouraging start at Brisbane Road.  'The reserves are very important,' Dyer told whufc.com 'Sometimes you can forget how important the job is. You want to develop the young lads but at the same time you have got the experienced pros who need to get games.  'The ones that have come in for me have been great and their attitude has been excellent.  'We have had two wins and a loss since I have been in charge and it has gone well.'  Spurs have a UEFA Cup match against Croatia Zagreb on Thursday and are set to name a youthful side.  However, fringe players Hossam Ghaly, Adel Taarabt, Gilberto, Kevin-Prince Boateng and Paul Stalteri could be involved after re-joining the first-team squad under former Hammers' boss Harry Redknapp.  West Ham are currently fifth in the nine-team league table, while Spurs are bottom.  Kick-off on Monday evening is at 7pm.  Admission costs 5 for adults and 3 for concessions.  Editor's Choice  An elderly man collapsed and died in a street in Borehamwood on Saturday afternoon.  Hello!  Boreham Wood U18s host Leyton Orient U18s in the first round proper of the FA Youth Cup at Meadow Park this evening.  Boreham Wood 1 Uxbridge 2 . . .  Those who follow chief reporter Caron Kemp's blog will know she gave birth to a gorgeous baby boy on Sunday. Well, Caron's tiny baby, who came to the newsroom for a surprise visit this morning, was not the only new face in the office today.  
