ARSENAL manager Arsene Wenger has claimed that the gruelling demands of the Barclays Premier League contributed to a winless round of Champions League games for England's four teams. Arsenal gave a lacklustre performance at the Emirates Stadium on Wednesday as they were held 0-0 by Fenerbahce, who they had thrashed 5-2 in their previous meeting in Turkey. And with Manchester United drawing 1-1 with Celtic, Liverpool sneaking a 1-1 home draw with Atletico Madrid and Chelsea slumping to a 3-1 defeat at Roma, the Gunners manager believe it is more than a coincidence that the quartet fared so badly. 'If you look at the results of the English teams, none of them had lost in the Champions League until this week,' Wenger said. 'This week, none of them won, and that's maybe explained by the fact that last week everybody gave a lot in the Premier League (when there was a full card of midweek fixtures] and maybe did not have the resources for the Champions League.'Wenger, who must now try and lift his team for the visit of Manchester United tomorrow, also adopted a familiar theme after the draw with Fenerbahce when he claimed his team are victimised by referees. With defender Mikael Silvestre joining Emmanuel Adebayor, Theo Walcott, Eduardo da Silva and Tomas Rosicky on the sidelines with a broken nose, Wenger again lamented what he claims is the deliberate targeting of his players " and a lack of punishment for it. 'Sometimes in England, you hear, 'They don't fancy that,' Wenger said. 'Of course we don't fancy that, because that's not football.'Although Wenger, who has made such comments regularly during his 12 years with the club, did not suggest Semih Senturk's elbow on Silvestre was deliberate, he appeared to be smarting still from Saturday's 2-1 defeat at Stoke City.  In what is perhaps a legitimate attempt to protect his young players from criticism or maybe even prompt leniency in future matches, Wenger claims referees are more ready to punish his players for fouls than they were other teams.'You can look at the fair play table,' Wenger said. 'Top of the table is Arsenal Football Club. Then you look at the team that gets more yellow cards after four or five fouls. It is Arsenal football club. Some teams get the first yellow card after 15 fouls.'Either I cannot read the (rule] book or something is wrong.'
