Robbie Keane goes back to White Hart Lane on Saturday evening inspired by the desire of Liverpool's local heroes to win the title.  The Republic of Ireland striker returns to Tottenham for the first time since his 20million summer move to Anfield with his new club top of the Barclays Premier League and he revealed the desire of skipper Steven Gerrard and defender Jamie Carragher to end Liverpool's 18-year wait for a league title has impressed him hugely.  Keane told the club's website: 'Stevie doesn't go on about it every day but there is a born desire inside him and the likes of Jamie Carragher to win the league. We have two local players here who want to win the title for the city.'  He added: 'Their determination in how they play and their attitude towards wanting to win the title rubs off on everyone at the club.  'If we can all display a piece of the desire that they've shown over the last few years then we've got a chance.  'But every player wants to win things no matter where they are from. You want to look back on your career and see medals - and there's no better medal than the Premier League.'  Liverpool's odds have been cut this week since the victories over Chelsea and Portsmouth gave them a three-point lead at the top of the table.  But they are still only third favourites behind Chelsea and Manchester United, and manager Rafael Benitez said: 'I do not care about the odds, all I care about is continuing the way we are playing and being top as long as we can.'  Around the site  After thirteen months on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury Chris Seeby made a goal scoring return to action at Clarence Park on Monday night but was unable to save St Albans City Reserves from going down to a 4-1 Capital League Western Division defeat to Harrow Borough.  Welsh male voice choir Only Men Aloud has launched a bid to beat the X Factor winner to this year's Christmas number one.  The Government has given Lloyds TSB's planned merger with HBOS the green light after overruling competition concerns raised by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT).  James Anderson has been left out of England's $20million showdown with the Stanford Superstars on Saturday to accommodate Graeme Swann as a second spinner.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  TRADITIONALLY Halloween is the one night of the year when ghosts and ghouls rise from the dead.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  A group of teenagers were put through their paces this week while training with firefighters in Hatfield.  Jonathan Ross has stepped down from presenting the 2008 British Comedy Awards, ITV announced.  
