SYDNEY, Aug 13 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar dropped to seven-month lows against the U.S. dollar and hit a four-month trough against the Japanese yen as fresh credit market jitters led investors to dump the high-yielding currency.    * Gold, metal and oil prices continued to fall on worries that a global economic slowdown would dampen demand for commodities, hurting the Australian dollar further. The CRB commodities index  shed 0.3 percent on Tuesday, and has lost nearly 4 percent in the past three trading sessions.    * By 9:35 a.m. the Aussie dollar  was at $0.8686/88 against the U.S. dollar, down from $0.8739/41 late here on Tuesday, and having fallen to $0.8682 which was its weakest since Jan. 23.    * The Aussie tumbled to a four-month low against the low-yielding yen, falling to 94.99 yen , as investors unwound leveraged positions in high-yielding currencies in favour of less risky assets like government bonds.    * Fresh credit worries emerged after Swiss bank UBS AG , posted another $5 billion in writedowns and JP Morgan Chase  said it had suffered $1.5 billion in losses so far this quarter.    * Some analysts also downgraded the outlook for Goldman Sachs , the biggest U.S. securities firm, citing continued pressure from distressed credit markets.    * Philip Lowe, Assistant Governor at the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), said the slowing economy is likely to lead to a rise in the current low levels of mortgage arrears but they should still remain well below those of many other countries. [nSYD91531].    * Westpac&amp;#039;s consumer confidence survey for August will be released at 10:30 a.m. (0030 GMT). Confidence has been at a 16-year low as decade high interest rates and record petrol prices crimp consumer demand.    * Australia&amp;#039;s second-quarter wage price index will also be released later in the day. A Reuters poll showed forecasts centred on a 1.0 percent rise in the quarter and an increase of 4.0 percent on a year earlier.    * Australian bonds surged on safe-haven bids and growing expectations the RBA will lower interest rates in the coming months to cushion the economy from a slowdown.    * Three-year bond futures  were up 0.065 points at 94.32, while the 10-year bond contract  was up 0.045 at 94.21.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
