SYDNEY, Aug 21 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar  held steady on Thursday, supported by firmer commodity prices while worries about U.S. mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac tempered the U.S. dollar.    * The Aussie dollar was hovering around $0.8725, up from a $0.8674 low overnight, but faced sellers around $0.8745 with sentiment still bearish given its huge losses in recent weeks.    * Analysts thought the dollar could be aided by news National Australia Bank had pledged to cut its mortgage rates by 25 basis points if the central bank eased by that much in September, as many expect.    * That could douse speculation the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) would have to ease more aggressively, say by 50 basis points, to get the commercial banks to follow.    * The commercial banks have been lifting their mortgage rates in recent months because of rising funding fees from the global credit squeeze.    * Three-year Australian bond futures  were up 0.025 points at 94.305, while the 10-year bond contract  added 0.05 points to 94.235.    * Bonds were underpinned by safe haven flows on reports Fannie  and Freddie  might have to be bailed out by the U.S. government [nN20394028].    * A bailout could limit the agencies ability to buy mortgages and so further damage the already beaten housing market. It may also leave the government guaranteeing up to $5 trillion more debt when it already needs to borrow around $1 trillion in 08/09.    * Aussie also inched ahead to 95.75 yen , helped by a moderate bounce in U.S. equities, but vulnerable to more risk aversion given the pressure on global financial stocks. * Commodities recouped a sliver of their recent losses with grains, energy and industrial metals gaining. The CRB commodities index  added 0.73 percent to 391.33.    * Australian data today is expected to show vehicle sales remained soft in July, which would do nothing to alter expectations for a rate cut in September.    (Reporting by Wayne Cole; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
