LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The euro held steady around the 1.49 dollar mark but off earlier highs after official figures confirmed market expectations that the 15-nation single currency zone shrank for the first time in almost a decade.    Eurostat reported that GDP in the euro zone fell by 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the first quarter for a 1.5 percent year-on-year gain. Both were in line with expectations.    The markets also brushed aside news that inflation in the euro zone during July was not as bad as initially feared. Eurostat said the annual harmonised index of consumer prices rose a final 4.0 percent year-on-year in July, down from the provisional estimate of 4.1 percent.    &amp;#039;The euro hit fresh session and intraday highs ahead of the data brace with spot edging into the 1.4930 dollars. However, following the data the pullback has continued with spot now dipping back towards support into 1.4900,&amp;#039; he added.,&amp;#039; said Matthew Foster-Smith, analyst at Thomson IFR Markets.    The main driver behind the earlier march ahead was the news that the German economy, the euro zone&amp;#039;s largest, did not contract as much as expected.    The 0.5 percent quarterly decline in the second quarter was lower than the 0.9 percent predicted by many economists.    Despite the contraction of the euro zone economy, analysts dismissed talk the European Central Bank will be cutting interest rates soon as its eyes remain focused on inflationary pressures. Inflation at 4.0 percent is double its target rate.    &amp;#039;If euro area GDP growth in the third quarter does show some positive growth, then in our view the ECB is unlikely to yield to pressure for lower rates at least during this year,&amp;#039; said Barclays Capital analyst Julian Callow.    However, the ECB could be in a position to cut rates by next year, they added.    &amp;#039;With weakening activity and falling energy inflation bringing the headline rate down sharply in the coming months, we still expect interest rates to start falling early next year and reach 3 percent by year-end,&amp;#039; said Jennifer McKeown, European economist at Capital Economics.    Attention this afternoon shifts to the U.S., where inflation figures are also published. July&amp;#039;s CPI increase is expected to have moderated to 0.4 percent from the 1.1 percent rise recorded in June.    The pound languished near the lowest level for almost two years against the greenback, falling to 1.8678 dollars in Asian trade, after the Bank of England issued a gloomy economic outlook.    The central bank had said on Wednesday that British inflation could fall sharply toward the government&amp;#039;s target of 2.0 percent from early 2009, which prompted traders to bet on interest rate cuts sooner than previously expected.    In European trade, the pound has recovered some of its losses and is trading back above 1.87 dollars.    pan.pylas@thomsonreuters.com    pp/rw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
