SYDNEY, Aug 6 (Reuters) - Home loans in Australia slid for the fifth straight month in June as rising borrowing costs and tougher lending conditions scared away house buyers, reinforcing the case for an early cut in official interest rates. The number of mortgages for home-occupiers fell 3.7 percent in June, compared to May when they slid 6.9 percent. That left mortgage commitments at their lowest since June 2004 and brought the drop for the year so far to an eye-watering 23 percent.    &amp;#039;The fall-off has been dramatic and it&amp;#039;s leading down so many other parts of the economy like home building and spending on household items,&amp;#039; said Stephen Roberts, research director at Lehman Brothers.    &amp;#039;It only adds to the argument for the Reserve Bank to start cutting rates soon,&amp;#039; he added.    In a statement following its monthly board meeting on Tuesday, Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Glenn Stevens surprised many by flatly stating there was growing scope for a cut in rates.    One major reason for that change of heart has been a slump in borrowing both by households and businesses.    Home loans have fallen by a fifth since March when the central bank last raised its cash rate, taking it to a 12-year peak of 7.25 percent.    Meanwhile, overall credit growth has more than halved from an average of 1.3 percent a month in 2007, to 0.6 percent in the first half of this year.    &amp;#039;With new loans and debt behaving like they did in the early 1990s recession, the increased downside risk to an already-weak economic outlook points to lower rates,&amp;#039; said Kieran Davies, chief economist at ABN AMRO.    &amp;#039;Weaker growth should eventually take care of high inflation.&amp;#039;    TOO TIGHT    Markets are already pricing in a cash rate cut of at least 25 basis points by September. Investors even see a reasonable chance the RBA may go by half a percentage point, in part to ensure that commercial banks follow with cuts of their own.    In the past year, Australia&amp;#039;s banks have lifted their mortgage rates by around 50 basis points more than the rise in the cash rate, while tightening lending standards as the global credit squeeze forced funding costs ever higher.    At the same time, non-bank mortgage lenders had become a dying breed as sources of funding dried up, making it harder for would-be home buyers to find a loan.    In the bank&amp;#039;s policy statement on Tuesday, RBA Governor Stevens acknowledged the &amp;#039;further tightening&amp;#039; in financial conditions had made it more likely demand would remain sudbued.    &amp;#039;Stopping financial conditions from tightening even further is probably the most compelling reason for the RBA to begin an easing cycle sooner rather than later,&amp;#039; said Su-Lin Ong, a senior economist at RBC Capital Markets.    &amp;#039;This also suggests that a more aggressive 50 basis-point cut to kick off the cycle cannot be ruled out with the banks unlikely to fully pass this on,&amp;#039; she added.    Still, in some ways the credit crunch has been a boon for the major banks by crushing much of the independent competition and reversing almost two decades of shrinking market share.    Banks accounted for 90 percent of the value of all mortgages made in June, compared to 79 percent in July last year before the crisis first blew up.    (Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
