LONDON, Aug 26 (Reuters) - Sterling sank to a two-year low against the dollar on Tuesday after a surprisingly weak reading of German business confidence bolstered the view that Europe, including the UK, is in increasingly in deep economic trouble.    Sterling&amp;#039;s slide against the greenback, which hit its highest level of the year against a basket of currencies, pushed the trade-weighted pound to its lowest since October 1996.    These moves earlier in the European session, enough to mostly shrug off a later dollar lurch lower as oil rebounded $5, were triggered by the slump in the Ifo index of German business confidence to a three-year low. See [ID:nLQ231966].    Figures also out on Tuesday showed that German consumer confidence hit a five-year low, adding weight to the view that Germany and the euro zone may be edging closer to recession.    As the euro zone is the UK&amp;#039;s largest trading partner and export market, this is potentially bad news for sterling and an imbalanced UK economy over-reliant on consumption and imports.    &amp;#039;The problem for the UK is that weak German growth might, paradoxically, be even worse for sterling than the euro, because of that need to rebalance,&amp;#039; said Paul Robinson, chief sterling strategist at Barclays Capital.    &amp;#039;The Ifo led to a selloff in the euro and sterling was dragged down by that. Slowing European growth is not good for the UK economy,&amp;#039; Robinson added.    At 1355 GMT sterling was down 0.7 percent on the day against the dollar at $1.8400, having earlier traded as low as $1.8331, a level not seen since July, 2006.    The euro was flat against sterling at 79.65 pence , while the Bank of England&amp;#039;s trade-weighted sterling index was fixed at 90.50 , a near 12-year low.    The fall in cable brought the pound&amp;#039;s losses against the dollar so far this month to more than 7 percent.    With only four more trading sessions left in August, cable is on track for its steepest monthly fall since its George Soros-led 12.7 percent collapse in October 1992, just after the UK was ejected from the Exchange Rate Mechanism.    The German Ifo shock suggests the euro zone economy, having shrank in the second quarter, could be facing a technical recession of two consecutive quarters of contraction.    Many analysts reckon the UK will also go into recession, after figures last week showed the UK economy stagnated in the second quarter, its weakest showing in 16 years.    And with unemployment rising, the housing market bubble bursting and the over-extended consumer struggling with the global credit crunch and high inflation, there appear to be few bright spots on the UK economic horizon.    Financial market pricing shows the Bank of England will probably cushion the UK economy&amp;#039;s rapid slowdown with interest rate cuts starting in January, although some say the risks are growing for that easing to start before the end of the year.    Sentiment toward the UK economy is almost universally sour, Robinson said, noting that UK mortgage approvals in July remained near the record lows of the previous month. [ID:nLQ17687].    At 1355 GMT the leading FTSE index of top 100 UK companies was down 1.4 percent , underperforming other major U.S. and European bourses. Keywords: MARKETS STERLING/CLOSE    tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomsonreuters.com    slm    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
