 Kim Kaul won the New York State Women's Senior Amateur on her first attempt Wednesday, while Gail Brophy repeated as the Super Senior champion. Kaul, 50, of Colden and Gowanda Country Club, edged two-time champion Maggie Kril (2005, '06) by one stroke during 36 holes of medal play at Holiday Valley Golf Course in Ellicottville. Kaul had back-to-back rounds of 72 on Tuesday and Wednesday for a 144 total, while Kril (Spencerport/Deerfield CC) closed fast with a 68 after opening with a 77. Central New York's top-finisher in the Senior division (50-over) was Lynda Lyman, of East Syracuse. The Pompey Club member tied for fifth on rounds at 154. In the Super Senior division (65-over), Saratoga Springs' Gail Brophy repeated as champion. Brophy, 66, posted a 154 total to beat Lula Garland (Jamesville/Drumlins) by four strokes. Cynny Hood (Manlius/Pompey Club) finished third at 163, and Sue Sims (Skaneateles/Skaneateles CC) and Pat Roadarmel (Syracuse/Drumlins) tied for fifth at 166. Tyler Dattmore, Eric Edmunds, Jeff Baldetti and John Maurer represented the Syracuse golf district in the annual Williamson Cup, an international team event for juniors played this year at the Country Club of Scranton in Scranton, Pa. The Syracuse team placed last out of 10 teams in an event shortened from 36 holes to 18 after nine rain delays. Edmunds was the top individual finisher for Syracuse, earning a tie for 10th with his 74. The placement earned Edmunds (Skaneateles) enough points to move into a tie with Dattmore (East Syracuse-Minoa) in the race for player of the year with one event remaining today's Interdistrict Junior Tournament against Rochester and Buffalo. Edmunds made a late charge for the title by winning the Syracuse Junior District Championship with a 3-and-2 final-match victory over Baldetti two weeks ago. The Boys (14-under) title was claimed by Ryan Clark (South Jefferson) with a 2-and-1 win over Mark Finlay (CBA). Janis Luce and Colleen Roche, members of the Central New York Chapter of the Executive Women's Golf Association, have advanced to the association's national tournament. 
