 The first year it was baseball and a picnic between the Almaden and Cambrian business associations. The second year it grew a little, while last year evolved into a barbeque competition inviting the Winchester Business Association.This years attendance surpassed the last three years with nearly 100 people showing up for the baseball game, a barbeque contest and good eats for all. This year also included the Evergreen Business Association and a San Jose celebrity, Mayor Chuck Reed, who took time out from celebrating his birthday to join in the fun, along with his fellow council membersDistrict 10s Nancy Pyle, District 9s Judy Chirco and District 1s Pete Constant.As usual, there was much competition. And, as happens every other year, the Almaden Business Association won the baseball game handily with no one would reporting the score because it was so lopsided. Last year the opposite took place with the Cambrian and Winchester associations ganging up on Almaden. It seems that the two associations do much better on each others turf.The groups met at Paul Moore Park in Cambrian, it alternates each year, and this year the barbeque contest wasnt limited to just council members, a slew of grillers came out to show how real ribs are done. The judges chose three of them as the contest winners.Thomas Kaiser from the Winchester association won first place for his ribs, followed by J.B. Schutte and Constant. Constant took first place last year against Pyles chief of staff Lee Wilcox and Judy Chircos famous hot dogs, which were awarded a prize all their own. This year the contest was limited to ribs, and both Constant and Schutte agreed that Wilcoxs ribs were better than theirs even though the judges disagreed.Lees ribs were awesome, Constant said.Constant, by the way, mentioned his secret had to do with maple, and looking up recipes for using maple rubs. Not wanting to rest on his laurels from last year, he came up with his own compilation of ingredients, which included a stick of butter. Look out Paula Deen!Everyone brought a covered dish and there were enough appetizers, salads and desserts to feed an army. Besides the ribs the Almaden and Cambrian associations brought hamburgers, hot dogs, buns, plates, cups and napkins so that those who werent interested in ribs could eat too.The associations would like to turn the event into a fundraiser that would allow them to give back to their respective communities. Wed like to raise money to help out organizations within our own communities, said Jocelyn Harker Simmons, president of the Cambrian Association. The ideas include another cookoff with booths for the businesses.Every year weve seen it grow and we hope it will continue to grow, Simmons said.No matter, the baseball barbeque always is a fun time, and the more the merrier.
