 Fenway Sports Group (FSG), a premier sports marketing agency that specializes in representation, sponsorship sales, event marketing and strategic marketing consulting, today announced it has appointed Brian Corcoran as Executive Vice President, Business Development &amp;amp; Motorsports. Corcoran will oversee day-to-day operations for FSG's NASCAR division which includes Roush Fenway Racing and Yates Racing. He is tasked with identifying and developing new sponsor and revenue opportunities for both teams. Corcoran comes to FSG after spending the last six years as Managing Director, Corporate Marketing for NASCAR. He was instrumental in securing Nextel Communications as the entitlement partner of the NASCAR NEXTEL Cup Series and Nationwide Insurance as lead sponsor of NASCAR's secondary circuit which is often compared to Triple-A baseball. Corcoran also played key roles in securing new sponsors, including Enterprise, Office Depot, AMD, TISSOT, AutoZone and Domino's Pizza. 'FSG is committed to growing Roush Fenway Racing and making it the top team on the NASCAR Sprint Cup circuit,' said Mike Dee, President, Fenway Sports Group. 'Brian's proven track record of success in building relationships with corporate partners in auto racing makes him the perfect person to help us recruit new sponsors and maintain our competitive edge.' In February 2007, FSG purchased 50 percent stake in Roush Racing, one of NASCAR's largest and most successful teams, to form Roush Fenway Racing (RFR). The team fields five cars in the Sprint Cup Series and currently has three drivers, Carl Edwards (2nd), Greg Biffle (7th) and Matt Kenseth (10th) in the Chase for the Cup and four drivers in the top 13 in Cup standings with David Ragan currently in 13th place. This merger marked the first time that owners of a professional franchise in one of the four major leagues have partnered with a NASCAR team. Through RFR, FSG also provides marketing and sponsorship services to Yates Racing. Prior to joining NASCAR, Corcoran served as Vice President of Team, League &amp;amp; Venue Services for SFX Sports where he spearheaded sales and management for various sports and entertainment properties. Prior to joining SFX Sports, he served as Sponsorship Sales Senior Account Executive for CBS Sports' New England Patriots Property. He has also been employed by Florida Special Olympics, the Alabama Sports Festival and Eastern Kentucky University. Corcoran currently serves as chair of the National Advisory Council for Make-A-Wish foundation. 'In just a few short years, Fenway Sports Group has become one of the nation's leading sports marketing organizations, and I am excited to join their team,' said Corcoran. 'I look forward to working with Roush Fenway Racing and Yates Racing to help each business grow so the drivers can continue to challenge for the winners' circle and a spot in the Chase for the Cup.' FSG also today announced several major promotions including Billy Hogan to Executive Vice President, Sales; Frank Huckabone to Senior Vice President, Sales; Andy Miller to Director, Business Development; BriAnne Bruni to Director, Client Management; Jenna Clifford to Account Supervisor and Geof Legg as Account Coordinator. In addition to its ownership stake in RFR, in December 2007 FSG became the managing partner in a new ownership group that acquired the Salem Avalanche, a minor league baseball franchise that is part of the Class-A Advanced Carolina League. FSG specializes in representation/sponsorship sales and strategic marketing consulting/event marketing for corporations and leading sports brands. FSG clients include the Boston Red Sox, Major League Baseball Advanced Media, the PGA TOUR's Deutsche Bank Championship, Verizon Wireless, AARP, Ritz-Carlton Club and Boston College Athletics. ABOUT FENWAY SPORTS GROUP Fenway Sports Group (FSG) is a wholly owned subsidiary of New England Sports Ventures (NESV). In addition to Fenway Sports Group, NESV owns the Boston Red Sox, Fenway Park, and 80 percent of New England Sports Network. A premier sports marketing organization headquartered in Boston, FSG specializes in representation, sponsorship sales, event marketing and strategic marketing consulting for corporations who conduct business in sports and entertainment. For more information please visit www.FenwaySportsGroup.com. 
