 ttention News EditorsTORONTO, Aug. 6 /CNW/ - AIG Travel Guard Assist has established a comprehensive 24/7 emergency medical and travel command center in Beijing that will operate as a direct hotline to handle all travel medical emergencies for customers of AIG Travel Guard (www.travelguard.ca) attending the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. AIG Travel Guard Assist has collaborated with Global Doctor - an Australian-based emergency medical assistance company - to provide Canadian travellers with on-the-ground, 24/7 travel and medical emergency services in Beijing and the other Olympic cities. Medical teams made up of experienced, western-trained doctors and nurses with English, Chinese and other language abilities will be strategically located and on stand-by, with the capability of handling multiple emergency medical evacuations at the same time. The travel command center in Beijing will be supported by AIG Travel Guard Assist's comprehensive 24/7 assistance services - such as emergency medical and evacuation coordination, travel assistance, personal assistance and concierge services.About AIG Travel Guard:AIG Travel Guard is the largest provider of travel insurance and assistance in North America, offering consumers a variety of travel insurance plans, all with comprehensive travel and protection services - and backed by superior customer service. AIG Travel Guard is a wholly owned subsidiary of AIG Travel, Inc., a member company of American International Group, Inc. (AIG). American International Group, Inc. (AIG), a world leader in insurance and financial services, is the leading international insurance organization with operations in more than 130 countries and jurisdictions.AIG Travel Guard Canada insurance is underwritten by American Home Assurance Company, Canada Branch, with its principal place of business at 145 Wellington Street West, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5J 1H8. American Home Assurance Company is a member company of American International Group, Inc. The description herein is a summary only. It does not include all terms, conditions and exclusions of the policies described. Please refer to the actual policies for complete details of coverage and exclusions.Anne Adamson/Tracey Bochner, Paradigm Public Relations, (416) 203-2223, aadamson@paradigmpr.ca 
