After its worst ever week, Wall Street started afresh with a surge in share prices as investors responded positively to the weekends bank bailouts.Before the market closed, the benchmark Dow Jones index had risen nearly 600 points, or 6.9%, to 9035.81. Earlier, all Asian indexes also rose; Hong Kong's benchmark index surged 10.2%.The boost to Wall Street came after a sharp recovery on European sharemarkets as governments pumped billions into the ailing banking sector, guaranteed interbank lending and increased capital.The main central banks  the European Central Bank, Bank of England and the Swiss National Bank  said they had unlimited amounts to lend commercial banks.In the UK alone, the government spent a total of 37 billion on three major banks  Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), Lloyds TSB and HBOS.RBS is to raise 20 billion with a further 17 billion to be put into HBOS and Lloyds TSB, which are planning to merge. Barclays intends to raise 6.5 billion without government help.Taxpayers will own about 60% of RBS and 40% of the merged Lloyds TSB and HBOS. Executives at the three firms will see cash bonuses limited or forbidden.The news lifted UK shares, with the main FTSE 100 index advancing 325 points or 8.3% to 4,257. However, shares in the three bailed out UK banks ended down heavily, with HBOS losing 28%, Lloyds TSB falling 14% and Royal Bank of Scotland slipping 8.4%. By contrast, Barclays shares firmed along with the rest of the market.Other UK banking developments RBS said chief executive Fred Goodwin will quit with immediate effect and without a severance payoff. He will be replaced by British Land boss Stephen Hester. RBS chairman Tom McKillop is to retire. Lloyds and HBOS said they had renegotiated their merger, reducing the number of Lloyds TSB shares that HBOS shareholders will receive. HBOS chief executive Andy Hornby and chairman Lord Dennis Stevenson said they would stand down from their posts after the merger with Lloyds TSB was complete. Neither will take any extra payments when they leave. RBS and Lloyds TSB/HBOS will return mortgage and small-business lending to 2007 levels, which is much more than they are currently lending.Elsewhere in EuropeGermany has approved a package for banks worth up to 500 billion, France will spend about 350 billion and Spain has set aside 100 billion. Austria pledged 85 million while Italy said it would spend as much as was needed, without giving any exact figures. Germany's Dax index added 490 points, or 11% to 5,034, while France's Cac 40 climbed 355 points, or 11% to 3532, its biggest ever one-day gain. The Icelandic stock exchange said share trading would remain suspended until Tuesday due to continuing 'unusual market conditions.'Morgan Stanley closes dealMeanwhile, in the US, Morgan Stanley shares soared almost 56% on the completiong of a $US9 billion deal with major Japanese bank Mitsubishi UFJ that will give it a 21% stake in Morgan Stanley, despite the investment bank's stock having dropped 61% from where it had closed before the deal was announced.The deals terms have been revised with Morgan Stanley selling only preferred shares, rather than the mix of preferred and common stock that was in the original deal.
