With the effective nationalisation of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley's loan book, the credit crunch has claimed the UK's four weakest lenders - those most reliant on pricey wholesale funding. Now, it's time to look long and hard at the remaining five listed lenders - Barclays, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), HSBC and Standard Chartered. The good news is that the remaining five don't look nearly so vulnerable. HSBC and Standard Chartered both boast robust regulatory capital adequacy ratios and the pair lend more to other banks than they borrow. Barclays and RBS also lend more to other banks than they borrow and boast large books of cheaper retail deposits - although the pair would benefit from having stronger capital ratios. That won't be a big problem, however, provided further big treasury book writedowns can be avoided. But the impact of future writedowns looks heavily dependent on the $700bn US bail-out plan to relieve US lenders of their most toxic assets - that may have been voted down by the US Congress this week, but an amended version is likely to be adopted soon. 'With local operating businesses, these three banks [HSBC, RBS, Barclays] would have stood to benefit from the $700bn facility,' says banking analyst Alex Potter of Collins Stewart. He calculates that the total exposure to toxic asset classes, such as US sub-prime, represents 88 per cent of Barclays' tangible equity, compared to 63 per cent at RBS and 52 per cent at HSBC. That leaves Barclays looking like it has most to gain from the US bail-out. Although it's a double-edged sword. 'Barclays has some of the least conservative marks on these assets and therefore could be negatively impacted depending on what the clearing prices of these assets into the facility would be,' points out Mr Potter.Meanwhile, Lloyds TSB isn't out of the woods. The government may have eagerly waived competition worries to assist Lloyds' rescue bid for HBOS but, with Lloyds' offer valuing each HBOS share at 188p, well above HBOS' 131.5p share price, it looks like the City isn't entirely convinced by the deal. 'If they [wholesale funding markets] remain frozen well into 2009, new Lloyds could react a lot like old HBOS,' reckons Mr Potter.
