The UK Government has agreed to throw a 37billion lifeline to Britain's biggest banks in an effort to avoid economic disaster never before seen. The bailout of  (RBS),  (HBOS) and Lloyds TSB - among the biggest financial institutions in the UK - includes the humiliating resignations of two chief executives. The 'unprecedented' moves are aimed to reverse both a growing panic among investors and an eroding confidence by consumers. In unveiling the plan on Monday, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said the government Chancellor Alistair Darling this morning would inject 20billion to save RBS and another 17billion to help out Lloyds and its takeover target HBOS in a deal that will include reworked terms of the deal. The government will own approximately 60 per cent in RBS and 40 per cent of HBOS - two of Scotland's biggest employers. Mr Brown said the bailout was 'unprecedented but essential for all of us'. Also essential to the deal was the departure of the banks' leaders. Sir Fred Goodwin, chief executive of RBS, will leave the company after about nine years at the helm, and HBOS chief executive Andy Hornby is exiting as well. Sir the Prime Minister at the joint news conference Fred, who earned 4million last year, will be succeeded by former investment banker Stephen Hester, chief executive of property company British Land since 2004. RBS chairman Sir Tom McKillop will also step down when he retires next April, and HBOS Chairman Lord Stevenson is leaving as well. None of the executives are expected to receive a 'golden parachute' package of cash and shares as is often common in high-profile departures. Chancellor Alistair Darling, in a joint news conference with the Prime Minister, said the government-appointed directors on the boards of RBS and Lloyds would be announced within HBOS receives lifeline before Lloyds' takeover the next few days. The Chancellor said board members must in future pay far more attention to the level of risk their banks were taking. 'It is really quite extraordinary that boards themselves didn't more fully understand what risks that they were allowing their banks to become exposed,' he said. Mr Darling said RBS, HBOS and Lloyds would be run 'at arm's length' from the government, and ministers would not be involved in day-to-day decisions.
