Ben Cook explains why the market needs restrictions on short selling ... for now.The FSA has launched measures to restrict the short selling of stocks in publicly quoted financial companies amid fears that the shares of major institutions  including several leading insurance companies  could plummet as a result of the practice.Short selling is when an investor borrows shares from another investor with a view to selling them. The investor sells the borrowed shares in the hope that the price will fall so he can buy back the shares at a reduced price. He then returns them to the original owner and pockets the difference.Short selling was partly to blame for the dramatic fall in HBOSs shares last week, which led to the bank being taken over by Lloyds TSB. The reason for the fall was that if many traders are trying to sell the same type of share, the price of that share would drop. Hence the FSAs decision last week to prohibit the active creation or increase of net short positions in publicly quoted financial companies.The FSA rules on short selling also state that there should be a daily disclosure of all net short positions in excess of 0.25% of the ordinary share capital of the relevant companies held at market close on the previous day.Basically, the FSA introduced these measures because it didnt want other major financial companies  which include Admiral, Aviva, Brit, Highway, Novae and RSA  getting into trouble as HBOS did. However, it should be noted that short selling has not been permanently banned. The FSAs restrictions will remain in force until 16 January 2009, subject to a review that will take place towards the end of next month.Hector Sants, chief executive of the FSA, made it clear that short selling was, by and large, a perfectly acceptable practice. He said: While we still regard short selling as a legitimate investment technique in normal market conditions, the current extreme circumstances have given rise to disorderly markets  as a result, we have taken this action to protect the fundamental integrity and quality of markets and to guard against further instability in the financial sector.Ben Cook is a freelance journalist.Want to get the latest news from only the areas of the industry youre interested in?Dont sift through masses of emails for the stories you want. You can now customise Insurance Times email newsletters to give you the news you need. Before it breaks across the industry.Receive newsletters on just the sectors of the UK insurance industry you want to hear about. You can select from newsletters covering 16 areas of the industry, including broking, commercial lines, run-off and legal.Choose the types of alert you want to receive. From breaking news updates, to our sector-specific alerts, you can receive as many, or as few as you want. You can even choose pick the day of the week to receive our weekly news round-up.All these options are available from the main sign up page. Just tick the boxes for the options you want.Signing up to this NEW service only takes a minute, just click here to get started.
