LONDON, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Three major British banks could take 37 billion pounds ($64 billion) in government money to boost their capital, the government said on Monday. Below are highlights of the deal: MEASURES - The government is making capital investments in Royal Bank of Scotland , and upon successful merger, HBOS and Lloyds TSB, totaling 37 billion pounds. - Following the completion of these capital investments, each of the above institutions will have a Tier 1 capital ratio in excess of 9 percent, well above international minimum standards and at a level that should put them on a strong footing for the future. BANK COMMITMENTS IN RETURN FOR CAPITAL - Maintaining, over the next three years, the availability and active marketing of competitively-priced lending to homeowners and to small businesses at 2007 levels - Support for schemes to help people struggling with mortgage payments to stay in their homes, and to support the expansion of financial capability initiatives - Remuneration of senior executives - both for 2008 (when the government expects no cash bonuses to be paid to board members) and for remuneration policy going forward (where incentive schemes will be reviewed and linked to long-term value creation, taking account of risk; and restricting the potential for 'rewards for failure') - The right for the Government to agree with boards the appointment of new independent non-executive directors COMMITTMENTS BY GOVERNMENT - The Government intends to create a new arms length body to manage the government's shareholdings in recapitalised institutions on a professional and wholly commercial basis, and seek to effectively realise value to the taxpayer. - Transparent arrangements will be put in place to ensure that any role for the government in relation to investment decision-making is clearly defined. - The government is not a permanent investor in UK banks. Its intention, over time, is to dispose of all the investments it is making as part of this scheme in an orderly way. - To reflect the implementation of the scheme, the government will on Tuesday announce a revised debt remit for the Debt Management Office. (Reporting by Paul Hoskins; Editing by Chris Wickham) Keywords: FINANCIAL/BRITAIN BANKS tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.comvsCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
