OK, so maybe you don't care as much as I do. I just find this stuff fascinating. I had been following a scandalous story from Charlotte, N.C. about its rather large United Way and the fiasco surrounding the $1.2 million salary of its executive director. The Charlotte UW fired her officially today, because she didn't resign on her own. It's a big mess, I'm sure, and an even bigger one to follow in lawsuits, I would be willing to bet.A story came out today regarding the hardship such negative publicity has presented to the United Way (and it's partner agencies, of course). Here it is, in part:Key companies are running more than $8 million short of last year's United Way giving levels, and United Way officials say they are scrambling to cut expenses and budgets.Interim United Way of Central Carolinas CEO Mac Everett said this morning that the agency's top 100 accounts, which comprise about 85 percent of its total collections, are running about 19 percent below last year's pledges and donations. If that projection holds true, the agency will collect $8.6 million less from those sources than it did last year.Everett said the agency isn't planning layoffs among its 90-person workforce, but is cutting costs in hopes of cushioning any budget cuts to the more than 90 area charities that depend on it.The United Way has frozen an unspecified number of vacant positions, and is looking to cut costs for travel, conferences and training, Everett said. Last year it set aside more than $1 million for special grants, but this year the grant money will be given to the charities.The United Way raised a record $45.3 million last year, but this year's campaign has been hobbled by public anger over former CEO Gloria Pace King's $2 million retirement package and by the banking crisis that has hobbled major donation sources such as Bank of America and Wachovia.Everett said the economic woes are crippling fundraising efforts.People are so uncertain, he said. Uncertain about their jobs, about what's happening in Charlotte, about what's happening in the global economic news. It's just hard (for them) to make commitments.Frankly, I feel sorry for the agencies depending on the Charlotte, NC United Way. It's a shame that lack of agency oversight is threatening to cripple the nonprofit community. So, I ask you: Do you know what your favorite charity is doing with its money, and do you know how the agency is being run?Better find out, lest you face the disillusionment and disappointment the folks in Charlotte, N.C. have experienced.
