Just want to pass along the word that I will have a commentary in an upcoming publication about modernizing the Community Reinvestment Act. The book will be accompanied by a day-long forum at the Mandarin Hotel in SW Washington, DC. It is co-sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. That&#8217;s me, at the bottom, talking about how HMDA (home mortgages) and CRA (small business) could be improved. The basic thrust of my argument is that we have witnessed a radical change in the set of financial products on the marketplace, but we are still working within a data regime that was built for the 1980s. The data is unable to differentiate between a fixed or adjustable rate loan, between a 40 year or a 15 year term, and even if a loan is made with cash-out or with a 20 percent downpayment. In short, while the data is meant to track how capital is being deployed on a neighborhood level, it cannot tell us much about some of the very characteristics that we know realize can destabilize property values. The conference will have some interesting perspectives from both the left and the right. For example, there is a proposal from Michael Klausner to utilize tradeable credits in CRA. In this approach, banks can buy credits in lieu of making CRA-qualifying loans in their communities. I think its attractive whenever tradeable credits can be utilized in a market, because it optimizes efficiency. That said, the places where this approach is most effective are in areas like air pollution, where people or events are less rooted in a specific place. In CRA, the whole point is to make sure that underserved communities get service, lending, and investment. Another promising wrinkle comes from Josh Silver and John Taylor at NCRC. Their idea is to allow a local summary of CRA performance in any evaluation. Currently, examiners give a CRA rating with limited sensitivity. Ratings are either outstanding, satisfactory, needs improvement, or substantial noncompliance. The latter two ratings are very rare. For example, in 2006 (probably the peak of subprime lending), the four agencies only gave &#8220;substantial noncompliance&#8221; to six institutions, none of which had more than $118 million in assets. This idea would dovetail with a developing problem for CRA - the issue of our suddenly expanding national banks. Right now, there are four banks (Citi, JP Morgan Chase, Wells, and Bank of America) that make up almost 40 percent of all deposits nationwide. Its an unprecedented concentration of capital. Bank deposits are rapidly concentrating (Keefe, Bruyette, Woods) The local grades allow CRA to remain relevant. In the details, it means that an examiner can give a bank a rating for its performance nationwide, but note that it needs to address lending in Columbus, Ohio or Tempe, Arizona (for example). Posted in Fair Lending, Safety and Soundness Tagged: CRA, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, HMDA      
