We can't help but wonder if Sol Trujillo quite understands the underlying irony of the "improvements" he's just announced in Telstra's Next G network speeds.   From February 23, Telstra Next G business customers will theoretically be moving data at up to 21 megabits per second (Mbps), compared to the current theoretical maximum of 14.4 Mbps. The reality will be considerably slower, but still appreciably faster than pretty well any other mobile network in the world.  Sol has apparently fallen in love with Next G. We're pretty sure that he's going to have "42Mbps" inscribed on his tombstone, presuming that he leaves our shores when Next G is scheduled to get to that milestone, around the end of this year, or early 2010. That, surely, will be the summit of his career. We can't imagine any other telco being able to afford him.  Sol doesn't seem to understand that increasingly, those speeds highlight the astronomical charges Telstra levies on customers who actually use Next G for data transfers. We whipped out the calculator and determined that on Telstra's 1GB data pack, the new speeds will allow us to chew up $59.99 in a brisk 390 seconds. That's 15.37c per second. [We won't be at all surprised if we've got that wrong, but the maths are definitely compelling.]  The major corporations get a substantial discount on those rates, but it's increasingly obscene, surely, for these companies to be forking out huge sums of money for their executives to feed their company Blackberries ... rather like that extravagant San Francisco junket  that National Australia Bank's Cameron "Costly" Cline treated his fellow "leaders" to, at a time when they should have been demonstrating restraint.  In our view, the head honchos of these operations should be stripping the Blackberries and other corporate bling off their executives as part of their obligations to shareholders to run lean, efficient operations. Only a tiny number of operational staff actually need them.   Maybe we should have a corporate vanity index which rates CEOs on the excesses they nurture. Sol possibly isn't No. 1 - "Costly" Cline surely outranks him, for one - but he's got very expensive tastes. 
