Being the world's largest economy, the actions the US leaders take,have got repercussions in other parts of the world. In this globalisedand highly networked environment, no action will go unnoticed oruncommented. Obama's economic stimulus plan highlights "economicnationalism" or protectionism in its crudest form.Obama is insisting that companies who receive federal bailout funds, cannot1. outsource their work to companies outside US2. federally funded public works should buy only US made Iron, steeland manufactured good3. federally aided banks not to hire foreign workersThinking like India did till twenty years back ?How wisely it is said that "history repeats itself", men never learnfrom their mistakes. Economic historians tracing events recollect thedepression of the 1930s when US Pres then, Herbert Hoover raisedduties on about 900 items, leading to the recession getting deeper,precipitating a worldwide crisis.Obama is keen repeating the same mistakes his predecessors did.. Thenot so great policies of George Bush, partly reasonable forprecipitating the global economic crisis now, does not mean Obama alsofollow similar dumb-headed attitude.. I do not recall where I read itfrom, constructive destruction is the term coined for this newprocess. That is what the world needs to look at now. Destruction ishappening and with it there is construction ..Kanwal Reikhi, the venture capitalist when he visited IIT Bombayrecently was mentioning the folly of the US government in trying tosalvage US pride by sinking hundreds of billions of dollars in thecrisis ridden companies of GM, Chrysler, Citibank and BankAm, once thepride of US innovative spirit, now the symbol of reckless greed andpoor corporate governance and ethics. These organisations are at thedeclining stage of their life cycles. No amount of financial fundingand salvaging can help these dying corporations and banks, No amountof good will is going to revive these companies.. They have outlivedtheir utility and need to be reborn again in a new avatar, beinnovative enough and useful to the world. The new evolutionaryprocess thus coming from the land of innovation, should be creativedestruction, with the US govt giving full support to it.Constructive destruction will ensure world resources and naturalstrengths and capabilities of countries are used more diligently andefficiently. Allow each country do those things it is efficient at inmodern day activities, like US in innovation, Japan in high techre-engineering and high quality miniaturisation, India in textiles,value added software development and back office operations, China inlow cost manufacturing, South East Asia in machinery, manufacturing,Australia in iron ore mining and so on. It also ensures the mostefficient allocation and utilisation of global resources. Theresulting synergy can then be leveraged to revive the sinking worldeconomy.Ensuring that creative destruction happens with the least of humaninconvenience or discomfort is the main lookout for governments, notthe blocking of the process altogether. It is inevitable and willhappen whatever and however we try to block it. a natural process onehas to go through ..A dynamically changing world needs developing the right skills andthought processes to leverage on the collective strengths andweaknesses of the countries of the world, this is the only sureshotpanacea to its ills.Mr Pascal Lamy, WTO Chief, is a much troubled man, jetsetting fromcountry to country trying to reason out the futility of imposingdomestic restrictions on goods and services during these times ofeconomic crisis.Aware of the ills of protectionism, let us join hands in this globalendeavour. Fet world leaders stop playing to the gallery .. Let tradeand businesses cross over the barriers or narrow walls of selfisheconomic interests to be globally efficient. Let us work together toresuscitate the world to greater levels of efficiency and productivityof operations. Only this can ensure global growth, efficientoperations and revitalise global economy in the coming years ..george..
