Quite an interesting column to dash across the net this morning.  The author is Matt Mayer, described as "President &amp; CEO of Provisum Strategies LLC and International Studies Adjunct Professor at The Ohio State University, is a Claremont Institute Lincoln Fellow."  I'm going with an assumption that he's not a total idiot.  Better yet, his column is plump with facts (readily obtainable from the IRS and elsewhere) and actual quotes (readily obtainable from the publishing entity).  In this column Mr. Mayer aims a very large boot at the rear end of Barack Obama and his liberal fellows in Congress and the press regarding relatively straightforward economics.  I especially like his elegant demolition of the "blame deregulation" crowd, including the liberals running Congress and the press, including our local press that can't be bothered to look into the matter themselves and just repeat back what they hear other newspapers say - the classic echo chamber effect.  They hear it from the press so it much be true, even though there's nothing to prove their point in what they saw/read, and then they parrot it back because, hey, it was in the paper, it must be true.  (More on this to come - look for a post titled 'I'm Worried')This is a LONG column.  I suggest reading all of it and tracing facts backwards to their source.  These are only the juiciest bits and the stuff I personally like to have available for future 'look ups'.  Mr. Mayer's column is written as three simple questions for Barack Obama.Question One: What share of federal income taxes should the top 25% of Americans pay, and how many Americans should pay no federal taxes? ...As Forbes reported, of the richest Americans on the Forbes 400 list, contrary to popular lore, 270 of them, or 68%, are entirely self-made. They didnt inherit their wealth. They built companies, created jobs, and, through that effort, made millions of middle class investors richer. These Americans should be exalted, not ridiculed by pseudo-Marxists or accused of illegality because a handful of bad apples break the law (despite the hot air of indictments, very few corporate executives ever get convicted after juries weigh the evidence)... Senator Obama has declared the rich to be those who make over $250,000, and pledges only to raise taxes on the top 5% of Americans. Using 2005 figures, there were roughly 6,630,000 filers out of over 132,000,000 in the top 5% who made 36% of all adjusted gross income, but paid 60% of federal taxes. Expanding the analysis to the top 25% of Americans would capture 33,152,909 filers. Those Americans made 68% of all adjusted gross income, but paid 85% of federal taxes, which left only 15% of federal taxes to be paid by the remaining 99,000,000 filers. In fact, the bottom 50% is comprised of 66,000,000 filers who made 13% of all adjusted gross income, but only paid 3% of federal taxes. Even more troubling, the bottom 20% of Americans who paid .8% of federal taxes will see their share of federal taxes drop to a negative .12% under Senator Obamas tax plan. That means they will get money from the federal government even though they paid no federal taxes. These incontrovertible facts lead to the one very simply question posed above that Senator Obama should answer. Does he think the top 25% should pay 100% of federal taxes? Should the entire burden be paid for by the top 5% of Americans? Who should pay and how much should they pay?...As Scottish Philosopher Alexander Tytler is credited with observing: A democracy will continue to exist up until the time that voters discover that they can vote themselves generous gifts from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates who promise the most benefits from the public treasury, with the result that every democracy will finally collapse due to loose fiscal policy, which is always followed by a dictatorship. Senator Obama aims his tax policy directly at this divide... Question Two: Specifically, what three deregulatory actions caused the current financial crisis and exactly how did those actions lead to the financial meltdown? Liberals and the mainstream media keep telling us that the Reagan Era move to deregulate led to the financial crisis. Yet, they seem largely unable to articulate which deregulatory actions are to blame. Instead, they just keep repeating the claim without any meaningful support for it. Case and point is a recent editorial by the New York Times titled, Dont Blame the New Deal....The first example given involved a failure of the Federal Reserve to curb unfair, deceptive and predatory lending. Ironically, it was the New York Times itself that lauded Fannie Maes easing of credit requirements in 1999 (see Fannie Mae Eases Credit to Aid Mortgage Lending from September 30, 1999), noting that the loosening of regulatory hurdles will encourage those banks to extend home mortgages to individuals whose credit is generally not good enough to qualify for conventional loans. The article noted that Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest underwriter of home mortgages, has been under increasing pressure from the Clinton Administration to expand mortgage loans among low and moderate income people and felt pressure from stock holders to maintain its phenomenal growth in profits. It quoted Fannie Mae head Franklin Raines saying, Fannie Mae has expanded home ownership for millions of families in the 1990's by reducing down payment requirements. Yet there remain too many borrowers whose credit is just a notch below what our underwriting has required who have been relegated to paying significantly higher mortgage rates in the so-called subprime market.'' At least the New York Times acknowledged in passing that Fannie Mae was taking on significantly more risk, which may not pose any difficulties during flush economic times. But the government-subsidized corporation may run into trouble in an economic downturn, prompting a government rescue similar to that of the savings and loan industry in the 1980's. Of course, this loosening of money to credit risky people occurred under Reagan disciple President Bill Clinton. Then, it editorialized that it was the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 that ended the Glass-Steagall prohibition on commercial and investment banks merging. No less than former President Clinton himself unequivocally stated, I dont see that signing that bill had anything to do with the current crisis. Indeed, one of the things that has helped stabilize the current situationis the purchase of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America. Had the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act not torn down the wall between types of banks, commercial banks wouldnt have been able to buy some of the investment banks, thereby lessening the financial crisis. Finally, the New York Times, in what can only be described as a colossal partisan omission, blamed President George W. Bush and not the Democrats lead by Barney Frank and Chris Dodd for the Fannie Mae and Freddic Mac reform legislation that died in 2005. The legislation would have tightened the lending requirements, thereby preventing lending institutions from giving money to high-risk borrowers. One of the leading proponents of that legislation was John McCain. Senator Obama voted against the reform legislation. The fact of the matter is that it was regulation that led to the mortgage crisis. The Congress and regulators aggressively pushed banks and other institutions to loan money to individuals unworthy of credit due to either low yearly income or poor credit histories. As both Presidents Clinton and Bush advocated homeownership for anyone and everyone, the Federal Reserve loosened monetary policy too much for too long, which flooded the market with historically record low interest rates for all those credit risky individuals... While some of these risky mortgages were held by commercial banks such as Washington Mutual, other had been packaged and sold as derivatives and other investment products to investment banks. As the housing market collapsed, more and more losses piled up until losses became wholly undeterminable. For the few commercial banks lacking diversity in holdings, they went bankrupt. For the investment banks with enormous asset to liability deficiencies, they either sold themselves for pennies on the dollar to commercial banks, received a federal bailout, or went belly up... Since 2005, the subprime, option ARMs, and Alt-A loans that resulted in foreclosures have risen from under 2% to roughly 10%, while jumbo prime and agency prime loans remain under 2% of all foreclosures. Similarly, the delinquency rate for subprime, option ARMs, and Alt-A by thirty days or more is just under 25%, 15%, 12%, respectively. Less than 4% of jumbo prime and agency prime loans are delinquent by thirty days or more. As noted by the Competitive Enterprise Institute, the federal regulatory leviathan, rather than shrinking, has grown unabated. In 2006, regulatory costs exceeded $1.142 trillion, which is greater than the total of federal individual and corporate income taxes collected. Federal agencies issued 3,718 final rules in 2006. The era of deregulation isnt over. It never started.Question Three: How do higher unionization rates make America more competitive and, therefore, stronger economically? ...The world, unlike in 1932, consists of a global economy. While unions and liberals like to pretend that they can unilaterally stop the globalization of work and force foreign countries to reduce their competitive advantage of lower wages and manufacturing costs, they cant. The reality is that countries with strong trade unions and socialist-leaning economic policies like France and Germany are weakening the power of the unions because, no matter how hard they try, they have been unable to force China, India, Malaysia, or even Eastern Europe to adopt their labor standards. As a result, their unemployment rates remain higher than other developed nati...
