Matt MayerLost in all of the campaign spin and generous mainstream media coverage of Senator Barack Obama is an understanding of why his economic approach will lead to a stronger, more competitive America. In an attempt to escape the soundbites and nuances of Senator Obamas presidential campaign, I have three fundamental questions for him that permit a simple, straightforward response. Here are the questions:Question One: What share of federal income taxes should the top 25% of Americans pay, and how many Americans should pay no federal taxes?Liberals know they lost the more obvious battle in the tax war that dealt with marginal tax rates at truly confiscatory levels. Once President Ronald Reagan decimated the arguments for tax rates in the 70% range, no politician with national aspirations attempts to breach the 40% line of demarcation. Senator Obama even tries to wrap himself in the Reagan tax blanket by tying his tax rates to Reagans tax rates.The less obvious battle in the tax war is over who should pay taxes and how much of the tax burden should a minority of Americans carry. Because Democrats have successfully used tax credits and other tax avoidance measures to expand the number of Americans who pay no federal taxes, a larger share of federal taxes are paid by a shrinking number of Americans. By shielding more of the income of the bottom 50% from being taxed and exposing more of the income of the top 25% to be taxed, the marginal tax rates remain low, but the effective taxes paid by the top 25% increases significantly.Liberals constantly declare that the rich should pay their fair share of federal taxes. When exactly does a taxpayer reach his fair share of taxes? Liberals wont say. They make these claims against millions of nameless and faceless Americans who they presume to know can afford to pay more federal taxes. In many cases, these Americans are the ones who live within their means, play by the rules, plan for the future, work the longest hours, have spent the most time and money earning advance degrees, and hope that the government will stop asking them to pay even more for programs they dont use so they can save for the childrens college education or reinvest in their small businesses.As Forbes reported, of the richest Americans on the Forbes 400 list, contrary to popular lore, 270 of them, or 68%, are entirely self-made. They didnt inherit their wealth. They built companies, created jobs, and, through that effort, made millions of middle class investors richer. These Americans should be exalted, not ridiculed by pseudo-Marxists or accused of illegality because a handful of bad apples break the law (despite the hot air of indictments, very few corporate executives ever get convicted after juries weigh the evidence).While you dont have to subscribe to her objectivist philosophy, Ayn Rands prophetic vision as laid out fifty-one years ago in Atlas Shrugged where the producers (read: rich) were forced to carry more and more of the costs of society sounds increasingly familiar. As the James Taggarts of today set their sights on the John Galts, Dagny Taggarts, Hank Reardens, and Francisco dAnconias of America with the moral claim that patriotism demands that they pay more, little thought is given to the long-term impact such policy will have on the incentives for the producers to keep producing in America. We certainly wont see the producers disappear as in Rands novel, but the examples are abundant of the producers moving from high tax countries (England) to low tax countries (Ireland). In an ever-increasing global economy, moving operations becomes even easier.Senator Obama has declared the rich to be those who make over $250,000, and pledges only to raise taxes on the top 5% of Americans. Using 2005 figures, there were roughly 6,630,000 filers out of over 132,000,000 in the top 5% who made 36% of all adjusted gross income, but paid 60% of federal taxes. Expanding the analysis to the top 25% of Americans would capture 33,152,909 filers. Those Americans made 68% of all adjusted gross income, but paid 85% of federal taxes, which left only 15% of federal taxes to be paid by the remaining 99,000,000 filers.In fact, the bottom 50% is comprised of 66,000,000 filers who made 13% of all adjusted gross income, but only paid 3% of federal taxes. Even more troubling, the bottom 20% of Americans who paid .8% of federal taxes will see their share of federal taxes drop to a negative .12% under Senator Obamas tax plan. That means they will get money from the federal government even though they paid no federal taxes.These incontrovertible facts lead to the one very simply question posed above that Senator Obama should answer. Does he think the top 25% should pay 100% of federal taxes? Should the entire burden be paid for by the top 5% of Americans? Who should pay and how much should they pay? He should tell us. As Barry Goldwater stated in The Conscience of a Conservative, Government does not have an unlimited claim on the earnings of individuals.Such an us versus them approach is not just bad for the them. It also is destructive for the us. First, it undermines the work ethic because working harder to earn more only results in the government taking more. The non-economic costs of being away from family and friends become too high. Next, it reduces accountability in government as the dependent majority who pay little to nothing of federal taxes care more about what they get and care little about what it costs. Finally, it disconnects Americans from being owners of their government and, as we learned from the peak of the welfare era, when people dont have a stake in their surroundings, they dont take care of it.As Scottish Philosopher Alexander Tytler is credited with observing: A democracy will continue to exist up until the time that voters discover that they can vote themselves generous gifts from the public treasury. From that moment on, the majority always votes for the candidates who promise the most benefits from the public treasury, with the result that every democracy will finally collapse due to loose fiscal policy, which is always followed by a dictatorship. Senator Obama aims his tax policy directly at this divide. He consciously promises the majority benefit after benefit and then says to those individuals who pay very little of the burden of those benefits that those nasty rich Americans in the top 5% will pay more. He hastens the tyranny of the minority.Tytler studied the lifecycles of civilizations and found that they last for roughly 200 years. These civilizations followed a similar pattern. Tytler categorized the pattern as such: from bondage to spiritual faith; from spiritual faith to great courage; from courage to liberty; from liberty to abundance; from abundance to complacency; from complacency to apathy; from apathy to dependence; from dependence back into bondage.America has reached the point at which over 50% of Americans receive a transfer payment from the federal government. Last year, roughly 44 million tax filers that paid no federal taxes received a check from the federal government. Senator Obama can dress that pig in whatever lipstick he wants, but those checks are nothing more than unearned transfer welfare payments. We know from Senator Joe Bidens paltry charitable giving why does not such a man, instead, contribute what he regards as his just share of human welfare to a private charity? It is because he gives at the office with taxpayer money when he increases government spending on programs that displace private charity.Given these facts, it is hard to argue that America has not arrived at the dependence phase of its lifecycle. While we will never know how long this dependence phase will last before we slip back into bondage, unless we find leaders who can appeal to our better angels and make the case against the Obamas of the country who seek to take more and more from the minority to buy-off the majority, we will surely continue on the descent to bondage.Question Two: Specifically, what three deregulatory actions caused the current financial crisis and exactly how did those actions lead to the financial meltdown?Liberals and the mainstream media keep telling us that the Reagan Era move to deregulate led to the financial crisis. Yet, they seem largely unable to articulate which deregulatory actions are to blame. Instead, they just keep repeating the claim without any meaningful support for it.Case and point is a recent editorial by the New York Times titled, Dont Blame the New Deal. That font of wisdom declared: For decades now, antiregulation disciples of the Reagan Revolution have eliminated vital laws, blocked the enactment of much-needed new regulations, or simply refused to exercise their legal authority.The first example given involved a failure of the Federal Reserve to curb unfair, deceptive and predatory lending. Ironically, it was the New York Times itself that lauded Fannie Maes easing of credit requirements in 1999 (see Fannie Mae Eases Credit to Aid Mortgage Lending from September 30, 1999), noting that the loosening of regulatory hurdles will encourage those banks to extend home mortgages to individuals whose credit is generally not good enough to qualify for conventional loans.The article noted that Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest underwriter of home mortgages, has been under increasing pressure from the Clinton Administration to expand mortgage loans among low and moderate income people and felt pressure from stock holders to maintain its phenomenal growth in profits. It quoted Fannie Mae head Franklin Raines saying, Fannie Mae has expanded home ownership for millions of families in the 1990's by reducing down payment requirements. Yet there remain too many borrowers whose credit is just a notch below what our underwriting has required who have been relegated to paying significantly higher mortgage rates in the ...
