I have been watching the news, reading countless webpages, and searching for information on what is happening in the USA and I am confused. I hear so much on international news that I feel is being objective and I am still lost with in this whole mess that I see my home country going through. What is really going on? Issue 1 The Election I called my mother on the phone today and I hear that Obama was in my hometown of Asheville, NC. She says, "these ole crackas over here have been acting funny". She went on to add that she was alive when Kennedy was alive and she can remember how he was the peoples president...we remember what happened to Kennedy. I also have this strange feeling that America (the white mans land) won't like a black president very much. I am worried about a backlash against black people, particularly black men. Do you really think America will elect a black president??? I have believed that Obama would win the election since Hillary lost her lead in the democratic party primaries but do you think America is ready? I commend Obama for being an extremely brave and insane for wanting the job of saving a nation that is sinking... ...from outside the country I have not been to one country or even met one person who even mentioned John McCain. They all ask about Obama but even the rest of the world is questioning America's stability and if the good ole boys will let it happen. What do you think??? &amp;nbsp; Issue 2 The Economic Meltdown 700 Billion dollars was just pulled out of American citizens pocket in the largest bank robbery in the history of the USA. Our president has defied his presidential limitations by lobbying for a bill and our government officials have ignored thousands (possibly hundreads of thousands) of emails and phone calls from their constituants whom they are sworn to represent. That is 700 Billion dollars out of an economy that was already squeezing the life out of the 93% of Americans who pay taxes and represent the majority in this democracy.  Now if I have my information straight this 700 billion dollars is demanded from the taxpayers to bail out banks that broke rules and caused this credit crisis by sub-prime lending to float an economy during a war that the American people were also against. If i am wrong please inform me.  What is even scarier is that I am hearing that the federal government is buying debt from these banks. Fannie Mae, Freddy Mac, AIG (which is an insurance firm), and countless other huge coorperations that have debts. These homeowners who use to pay their bank are going to be indebted to the federal government now? Does that mean that the government can use the power of the IRS and other agencies to collect these debts from your work wages or use eminent domain to seize your property?  I have been recieving this information from CNN, BBC, and other sources...i'm just not sure if i'm hearing it right.  &amp;nbsp; Issue 3 Are the people just NUMB to it in America I call home and I hear that there is no gas in Atlanta. NO GAS??? How are people getting to work? How are business keeping their doors open? I keep hearing about the spike in unemployment since i've been gone and I'm thinking...damn I need to call home. I call home and I am having to fuckin shake information out of people. They are like...zombies. "it aint that bad...people are struggling but its always been like this." I'm like, I just saw Bush on TV talking about the economic crisis like the world is about to end. I just heard about John McCain suspending his campaign to "fix" this problem but when I call home people are like...it ain't nothing. All of these things have just popped up since I left and I am like...is the information I'm getting correct? People have not been letting me know SHIT!!! Please let me know whats really happening. I stay current in politics and it seems that the world is watching our country closer than my peers back home.  I don't want to go any further about what I've heard and what has been predicted. I want to see if those who have ears and eyes can relay the info to me because I am&amp;nbsp;detecting that now is the time for action before it is too late. 
