&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; Over the past few months I have worried almost incessantly about getting a job so well I can pay rent. It's just so hard as it seemed that NO ONE was hiring. I felt so alone in this sentiment, but yet after doing a bit of economical research I find that this is totally not true. With the nations economy the way it is now, unemployment is a 6.1 percent, and it's expected to rise to over 7.5 percent by the next year. Not only that the American dollar is pathetically weak, though no surprises there considering it's not really backed by anything at all really aside from the power of the American name...and look where that's got us. This has led to a credit freeze and a total lack of economical stimulus through the nation which has put us near if not already in a total nation recession. One question for that is...What the hell is the government doing up there?!The government frets over possible solutions and comes up with some totally crackpotted $700 billion dollar bailout plan that pretty much boils down to throwing a lot of money around, from other countries I might add, to try to boost our suffocating economy. While that may seem like it's a terrible idea, which it probably is, it actually wouldn't be that bad for the economy as it would increase spending in the national government and therefore boost the economy due to increased cash flow. The government tried a smaller scale version of this in Febuary with the $168 billion stimulus check issues which did help carry the economy through the early spring...that is until the money ran out and Americans stopped spending their money. The problem with this aid package though is that the government isn't using the money that they have right now, as well as the money they hope to recieve...not at all. Instead of giving it to dying companies who could use the money to stay afloat and possibly cause an increase in the job market the government gives the money to rich people who are already profiting from the horribly fluxuating economy.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp; For example, the government allowed a large company (who's name and profession shall remain nameless here) to take a $400,000 dollar vacation at some fancy foreign resort. Really? Could someone please tell me the nessecity in that, cause I sure as hell missed it. Maybe you could use some of that money to save my bank, which is on the verge of collapse here (Bank of America for reference). Speaking of bank failure no more then 15 banks have failed recently, including many popular banks such as AIG and WaMu. Fifteen banks! That is the highest bank failure in American history.&amp;nbsp; Not only that there's the stock market, and I'm not sure I want to even begin to think about how messed up that situation is. The market fluxuates more then a bipolar teenager and it makes me nervous. And what the heck is up with the Dow Jones?! It drops like 700 points and then shoots right back up? All I really have to say is that the US really needs to come up with some kind of reasonable solution that doesn't involve throwing money around because that is horribly short viewed and doesn't really have any long term effect on the receeding economy. I, on the other hand, will continue this seemingly fruitless search for a job. Thank you for your time everyone. 
