               The House just passed the $700 billion Wall Street Bailout plan.  Don't fall for the misnomer of it being an economic rescue plan - this bill was a porked up version of the bill that was voted down on Monday.  I am not being melodramatic when I say I believe that 10 years from now we will be asking ourselves what in the world were we thinking?  The $700 billion is not going to be use to buy up bad mortgages from individuals - it is going to go directly to the exact same companies and executives who caused the mess with the creation and rapid escalation of mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps.The fact is that there is going to be continued, long-term pain in the economy for years as a result of the disasterous economic policies of the Bush Administration.  With the stroke of his pen, when George W. Bush signs this monstrosity of a bill into law, the spending will explode and before the end of this year, the U.S. government will add at least another $500 billion in debt to the already ridiculous $10 trillion U.S. National Debt.  When Bush came to office, the National Debt stood at $5.7 trillion.  The worst part is that Paulson now has a blank check worth $350 billion that he is going to spend. I guarantee you that he is going to buy up bad debt from the following:  Goldman Sachs (he is the former Chairman), JP Morgan Chase (he thinks highly of that firm and it is a part of the Fed), the Bank of China (we need their money), and the Bank of London (we need their money).  Members of Congress who voted for this ridiculously bad bill will cry foul and say that they had no idea Paulson was going to bail out foreign banks - but don't believe that nonsense.  He essentially testified and has publicly said that he would.People should remember this.  It was a Republican President who forced the American people to socialize the housing market (with the purchases of Freddie and Fannie), socialize a large segment of the insurance industry (with the purchase of AIG), and socialize the financial sector with this horrible bailout bill.  The Dems and Republicans in Congress were too weak to actually stand up to a President who has made mistake after mistake after mistake.  They capitulated and gave this idiot President the power to spend another $350 billion with no questions asked (the second $350 billion has to be approved by Congress).  It is absolutely pathetic.It truly is a sad, sad day.           
