People at a loss for credit solutions these days while some are fearful about applying for credit because they have this false notion that credit cards are &amp;#8220;bad for these times&amp;#8221;. The candid truth is that no credit card is EVIL, but it is the attitude of credit card holders which gives them needless problems. Problems with credit cards begin when one starts to apply for one. Some jump too swiftly to apply for a credit card NOT knowing that the interest rates may be a bit too much. Keep on mind that credit card companies are a BUSINESS and they expect to earn by lending you money. Here are several tips to help you choose the right credit card: 1. Don&amp;#8217;t jump the gun at every offer without reading the fine print. Choose reputable credit card companies such as those offered by Bank of America, Providian Credit Cards, Household bank Credit Card and Amex Corporate Credit Cards. Simply put, these cards are offered by the most reliable banking institutions. Credit cards like American Express gives you 0% APR for a year with a low balance transfer APR of 2.99%. This reputable credit card also allows you to earn points and rewards including cash gifts for the holidays. 2. Use online sites such as Compare Cards dot com and other sites to get the BEST LISTING of the most reliable cards. Sites such as Compare Cards dot com also allow you to compare the differences in the interest rates of the cards that you can avail of. 3. Determine your needs and what particular credit card would suit you or your family&amp;#8217;s need the most. Browsing through a site like Compare Cards gives you the credit quality of each card, the low interest cards, student credit cards, and even cash back credit cards. A site like this one also helps you take advantage of the latest credit card promotions and giveaways. 4. Do not always assume that applying for a credit card during &amp;#8220;difficult&amp;#8221; economic times is bad for you. On the contrary, if you use your credit to build a small business to augment your income, using credit is good. Besides, you can build wealth by wisely using credit. Top business men/women will have to admit that credit immeasurely helps them build their businesses. 5. After having chosen the card, make sure that you are a responsible borrower. Make your credit card WORK for you instead of against you. Use your credit to finance your small online business, purchase things that will save you money (e.g. solar lights, things you NEED not want) and try and pay on time. There is NOTHING wrong with applying for a credit card. It is your sense of responsibility which can make the card work for or against you. 
