               Bill Clinton shows his ignorant side in this interview with Business Week.  In the interview, Clinton was asked if he regrets signing the Gramm bill that deregulated banking and investment brokerage industries by formally blurring the two.  Clinton responded as follows:FORMER PRESIDENT BILL CLINTONNo, because it wasn't a complete deregulation at all. We still have heavy regulations and insurance on bank deposits, requirements on banks for capital and for disclosure. I thought at the time that it might lead to more stable investments and a reduced pressure on Wall Street to produce quarterly profits that were always bigger than the previous quarter. But I have really thought about this a lot. I don't see that signing that bill had anything to do with the current crisis. Indeed, one of the things that has helped stabilize the current situation as much as it has is the purchase of Merrill Lynch (MER) by Bank of America (BAC), which was much smoother than it would have been if I hadn't signed that bill.Sorry, Bill.  Keeping insurance on bank deposits, while letting banking institutions run amok with risky adventures as if they were investment banks, and letting investment houses get into banking, is precisely what was wrong with the Gramm bill.   And maintaining disclosure only meant we all watched this car crash in real time, with the b.s. flowing that real estate is "always a great investment" and the usual herd-lemming mentality that prevails when bubbles get pumped up.  Further, there was nothing in this bill to make bank executives become less pressured about quarterly stock investor returns. I'll give Clinton one thing: Because of the Gramm bill, it was easier for Merrill Lynch to be bought by Bank of America--but that's because of the walls being broken down by the Gramm bill that led to the debacle in the first place. Who does Bill Clinton think he's kidding here?  As Nader and folks like me recognized at the time, and a few brave Democrats like Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) understood, investment houses take risks in lending money to start ups and people on the edge.  Banks are supposed to be far more cautious ("conservative") in their lending practices. You don't combine the two or let one morph into the other.Since Clinton is too financially ignorant to understand this, read this great, prophetic quote from Senator Dorgan in 1999 warning us that the repeal of the Glass-Stegall Act of 1933 was something we'd regret in ten years time.  Clinton needs to crawl under a rock, at least until the election.  He is so narcissistic, so eager to undermine Obama and his party in order to justify and promote himself, that he deserves nothing but our contempt.*Note on the Biden-Palin debate:  Didn't you love it when Palin, after saying Obama's tax plan (which gives tax relief to middle class folks and repeals the tax cuts for those making more than $250,000) is a "redistribution of wealth," almost immediately thereafter trumpeted how she signed a windfall profits tax on oil companies in Alaska?  Being governor of Alaska is like being governor of Nevada, where you run against government, but tax the hell out of the main business that makes your state famous, and then condescend against states that have more diverse and therefore harder to tax industries and businesses.  The bottom line about Palin is that she is without any intellectual integrity, is horribly programmed (that is the significance of her inability to name even one newspaper or magazine she reads) and is as narcissistic in her personal ambition as Clinton. There is nothing "there" but herself.  Overall, she sounded like someone who crammed for a test, but didn't really understand the material.  Biden, at least, had some substance to him, and at least knows reality when it hits him in the face.  Biden did extremely well last evening, and our fellow Americans should be congratulated for recognizing Biden is the superior candidate over Palin.* Media Matters, bless their hearts, try to put Clinton's remarks in a larger context.  See here. However, Clinton simply could have said Obama was a great man with the ease he said so about McCain, and he would not have been so easily edited.  Also, if you think McCain is a great man, then read this tough piece from the Rolling Stone.(Edited)           
