In response to an earlier comment inquiry by divinerose, I talked a little bit a few days ago about the FDIC and how it operates and whether or not your bank deposits are going to be safe during this whole mess, but I realize now that since this bailout thingy is going back around to the Senate who is attempting to take a second bite at the apple, the issue of deposit insurance is becoming more and more important since the bill appears to be getting revised to up the deposit insurance limits.  So I thought I would drone on a little bit more, not just about deposit insurance, but about insurance in general, how it operates, what the relative risks are to your bank deposits, stuff like that.By now pretty much everyone has heard the typical party line vis-a-vis the FDIC, which seems to be the only government agency that anyone actually TRUSTS any more.  (This may be a temporary situation; give it a couple of days and FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair's name may be just as much mud as Ben Bernanke's and SEC Chairman Chris Cox's and Hank Paulson's are today.  But I digress.)  The FDIC was originally formed as a creature of the New Deal, an entity borne out of the desire to prevent the escalating series of bank collapses and panic runs that exacerbated, if not precipitated, the Great Depression.  And so by now pretty much everyone knows that the first $100,000 of their deposits in their bank accounts, or up to $200,000 if you're married with a joint account, or up to $250,000 if your money is in an IRA, is theoretically protected by this magical bank insurance in case you wake up one morning and your former depositary institution has, as so many appear to be doing these days, gone POOF! into the ether.What you gotta realize though is that while the FDIC presents a *robust* protection against people losing all their money, it is by no means a FOOLPROOF one.  As vortech properly noted in a comment to the above-linked thread, what the FDIC provides is not a deep and bottomless pool of assets which are sufficient to cover every depositor in this country should every single bank suddenly evaporate.  Insurance, by its very nature, only holds a SMALL PORTION of cash reserves available to cover the claims of people who've suffered a loss.  This is true for every type of insurance company out there; by design, if an insured individual suffers a loss, that loss is "covered" by the money that the insurance company takes in as premiums from its other policyholders; but, obviously, no insurance company charges premiums that are high enough to cover the possibility that every single one of its policyholders will suffer a loss simultaneously.  If it did, it would basically have to charge a premium which was equal to the amount of the loss suffered, which isn't "insurance" at all.The FDIC is funded by premiums paid by the banking industry.  Every bank out there is required by law to become a member of the FDIC and to pay a portion of its deposits as a premium.  These premiums are what is known in the industry as "risk-based", which means that banks which hold riskier loan portfolios (and which are therefore at a higher potential risk of failure) are charged comparatively higher premiums on an annual basis than the so-called "safer" banks are.  And then the FDIC takes all these premiums and puts them into a reserve account, which is reinvested in relatively safe investment securities such as Treasury bonds so that *more* money can be made on the premiums, and all these premiums plus their investment returns are held in a pool which is used to pay out claims of some depositors in the event of a bank failure.How much in the way of reserves does the FDIC hold, you ask?  Well, you might be pretty scared by the answer, at least initially.  There are something like $4.9 TRILLION dollars worth of insured deposits sitting in banks out there subject to FDIC oversight.  Of that amount, if the FDIC had to liquidate its entire cash reserve today, it would be able to pay out a maximum of about $45 BILLION worth of claims.  This works out to slightly less than ONE PERCENT of the insured deposits."Whoa hoa hoa," I can hear you saying right now.  "We are FUCKED if our bank goes into receivership, then, right?  There's no way in HELL I'm gonna get paid back the full amount of my deposit!!!"  Well, yes and no.  As I noted to divinerose, the FDIC has other options in the event of a bank failure besides paying depositors out of its own pocket.  In fact, it used those very same alternate options in the case of both the WaMu and Wachovia failures.  Basically, the FDIC has the power to auction off a distressed bank's deposits to another bank which is willing to step in and take them over.  In the case of WaMu, the WaMu depositors actually got a BETTER deal in this regard, when the bank was taken over by Chase, than it would have if they would have had to rely on the FDIC alone, because part of the terms of the Chase acquisition deal was that Chase agreed to make good, not only on the FEDERALLY-INSURED portion of depositors' accounts (that first $100,000 or so), but also on the NON-INSURED portion as well.  Basically what that meant was that no WaMu depositor lost a single cent as a result of the bank's collapse -- their full amount of savings were honored by Chase, and the FDIC didn't have to pay a single penny out of its cash reserves as a result.This is a pretty good outcome, but it's not a silver bullet.  For starters, as more and more banks potentially fail, there are going to be fewer and fewer potential suitors of the Chase variety who are going to be willing to step up and take on the failing bank's losses.  Now, one would hope that of the banks that ARE yet to fail, relatively few of them will be as HUGE as WaMu and Wachovia were, and that most of them will instead be small regional banks and credit unions which can be relatively easily absorbed by their much larger rivals.  But that in and of itself creates a DIFFERENT problem (which thewestwind and clayfoot have both perceptively noted in their own blogs), which is the continuing consolidation and monopolization of the banking industry in the hands of relatively few uber-powerful national banks.  At this point, the "big three" banks, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, and Bank of America, control something like 30-35% of the checking and savings account deposits in this country.  Concentrate that kind of power in the hands of relatively few banks and you'll eventually begin to see said banks start to abuse that power, by ratcheting up fees and scaling back on account management flexibility for individuals, if for no other reason than because they CAN...we're no longer operating in a purely competitive environment when so few firms can exercise so much market power.And so in that case we come back to the FDIC.  What, if anything, can they do to help?  Well, they're not "trust-busters" in the old antimonopolistic sense where they have the power to come in and bust up big banks into smaller, more easily digestible chunks.  But what they CAN do is require the banks which survive to pay much HIGHER risk-based premiums for deposit insurance, which would have the effect of allowing the FDIC to ramp up the level of its own cash reserves and possibly even increase the cap on individual deposits which it is capable of insuring itself.  This is the crux of the revised bailout plan provisions which, as I understand it, are being pushed by the likes of Barack Obama -- authorize the FDIC to increase its individual insured deposit caps from $100,000 to $250,000 per individual.  It'll cost the banks (and, of course, indirectly, the banks' CUSTOMERS) more money up front to fund these increased premiums, but it might ultimately decrease some of the monopolistic tendencies of the current wave of bank consolidation activity.  And that, to me, is not so much a Bad Thing.
