So the state of IL is working with a mortgage bank that got bought out by Bank of America to help save 21000 mortgages. The state isn't paying a dime. Neither are the taxpayers. They bank is simply lowering interest rates. IS THAT SO FUCKING HARD?The sub-prime lending rate still represented an income stream. When the rates ballooned at the end of the sub-prime period, people couldn't pay and the foreclosures occurred. The fucking geniuses in the banks said "oh, that's fine, we'll just keep repossessing these properties that we can't sell". You'd think they didn't understand their own industry. And as this kept ballooning, they let it go. Rather than renegotiate the mortgage. Rather than take responsibility for their reckless lending. Would the homeowner have agreed to new terms that extended the duration of their mortage on a low interest rate? Yeah, probably. And the bank would have kept a revenue stream, albeit not a terrific one. There might need to be some layoffs. There might need to be some tightening of the belt. The point is, a little COMMON SENSE and FLEXIBILITY would have kept all of this from imploding. Mind you, I'm not pointing the finger solely at the banks here. The homeowners were at fault for not understanding their own limits. The government was at fault for watching it happen and not acting sooner. The banks as holders of the debt were in the best possible position to take control of the situation and prevent it from becoming the crisis it is, by negotiating terms that were in everyone's best interest. Anyhow, its a hell of a way to cap off the Bush presidency. Fighting two wars, rampant unemployment, housing crisis and now financial ruin capped by government misuse of nearly a trillion dollars of taxpayer money. He deserves impeachment for criminal negligence of the millions of American citizens. I can understand everyone tiptoeing around the issue during an election year, but damnit.... if he doesn't get impeached following the election, that's a truly impressive shame for America to live with. Forget Watergate. Forget Iran Contra. Forget getting a hummer in the Oval Office. Those were all far less than trivial in the face of what we've seen our country become during 8 years of Bush. And to all the people saying "get out and vote", stop a moment and think. Or really, tell others to stop a moment and think. Don't just vote. Know what you're voting for. Vote responsibly. I don't care if you vote McCain, Obama, or anyone else, as long as you are really aware of what your candidate represents for you. "Get out and vote" just says listen to your media source of choice and do what you think they're telling you to do. Or listen to your friends, and do what they tell you to do. Be another sheep in the flock. Its the lack of a message and increase in finger pointing over the last several months that has me completely disgusted with both the Republican and Democratic presidential options, and why I refuse to endorse either. Its come down to "old white guy vs young black guy", all of the energy and optimism we saw at this point last year having been slowly sucked out by an unprecedented two year campaign race (if that isn't a statement on the Bush presidency, I don't know what is). Our nation is too old for this shit. Zombie apocalypse. Its time for a reset.
