               So the idea is that our U.S. Senate is going to help "Bail Out" investment banks from irresponsible lending.  The perceived fear is that unless congress acts, there won't be any lending of money, thus -- mind you this is the "scary part" -- you may not get paid and your company may have to lay people off.  HORROR! Link:  a primer on the Subprime Mess  I thought that was cute. So let us, or me, dig into this issue just a touch.  Some corporations have to take out loans to make payroll.  Understand this point crystal clear please; it is the case that some businesses have "mismanaged" their cash flow  such that they must borrow money from a bank to pay the people that work at the company...   This seems very contradictory to exactly how it is supposed to work.  I understand if a company or corporation needs to borrow money because they are looking to construct a new building, buyout a competitor, or delve into a new market; but the idea that I am borrowing money to pay the people that work at the company is stupefying!So, if I had to borrow money just to pay my utilities and broadband services would not this need call into question my ability to run my household?  Perhaps I should learn a lesson such that I can't leave the water hose open and running all day, or the lights on 24 hours.  Is it not expected that I understand that I can't afford to remodel the house, or buy a round of drinks for the bar, or buy a second home.  Why would Congress use our money to permit Wall Street investment banks do this?The bottom line in my view:Yes, something has to happen, something must be done to help "sure up" our economy.  But I would rather Congress develop a plan that focuses on preserving individuals 401Ks, IRAs and pension accounts.  I understand that much of this is tied together in the "FUNDS" but that is the heavily lifting that needs to occur.  Extract the value of stated 401K / IRAs and pension accounts since midway through Fiscal Year 2007 and boost those value only.  In other words, protect the retirement funds of individuals.  I do not see this costing more than 300 Billion.  Individual banks such as WaMu and Wachovia, if they fall victim to having made bad loans, then they must no longer exist.Larger institution such as Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, US Bank, or Citigroup may also suffer, but the suffrage is standard economic corrections.  Any bailout that does not address the root causes such as the over indulgence of credit in the US market and lack of accountability on the side of the corporation/company entity.  Also the method in which we promote educational development.  Basically we are programming ourselves to be consumers (or are we being programmed to be consumers?)  At this rate, the bailout is delaying perhaps for twenty years or fifteen years what should come to fruition now.Recognition of the perils of brute capitalism which leads to communism is not impossible.  We just have to focus on doing what is right as individuals.  Individually we shouldn't have to pay to bailout what these investment banks did to themselves.  Perhaps we need to help the foreign countries that were sold duds, but I do not see this price tag being 700BillionNot much else to say.           
