Here's a little story for you.December 2007 I forgot to make a payment to Bank of America. Simply forgot. I'm human and a blonde. This is the only time I've ever been late. Seven days after due date, I remember and I take responsibility for my error. I pay more than double the original payment, the late fees, etc and so forth. The very next statement at the end of December, BOA informs me they're going to jack my interest rate to 31.74 percent and if I pay on time for six months like a good dog they'll "review" my account. (Surely, you know what "review" means: they will do nothing, especially lower my interest rate). That very same month, Washington Mutual informs me via their statement that they're jacking my interest rate to 25.99 for no reason at all other than they can. But this is an extortion attempt because they state that if I don't like the terms, I can keep my current rate of interest, but close my account. I call them both and tell them I'm not going to pay. And I don't. And my sky did not fall. In fact, I felt an immense relief, as if the weight of the world had been lifted from my shoulders. I suggested at one point to one of their customer reps that this jacking of my interest rate was a thinly-disguised attempt to get me and others like me to help them pay for their bad sub-prime loans. This, I have discovered, is one of the quickest ways to end a phone call. That and asking the collectors from Washington Mutual how they intend to pay their bills.Fast forward to three months ago--I get a call from one of BOA's collectors who proceeds to work out a payment plan with me. Thirty dollars a month for 60 months. Fine. They take the first payment of thirty and two weeks later I get a call from one of their reps in a different office stating that the thirty isn't enough--according to federal law they have to have eighty. I said no, you made a deal for thirty, you take thirty or nothing. And by the way, show me the federal statute. The company-backed extortionist doesn't know the specific statute. Transfer me to someone who does, I says. He won't. Give me your supervisor, says I. He fights with me, then I get transferred. I cite who I spoke to upon making the original deal at this phone number, here's the confirmation number, here's the lady's extension. BOA makes the woman who worked out the deal call me back to tell me they can take fifty (what happened to the statute requiring eighty?), but not thirty. This is bait and switch. I told them forget it. I still have not paid them or Washington Mutual and I have no intention of ever doing so. Caller ID is very good for something.Now, here's how stupid the banks are in general. I call HSBC to tell them that due to a new bookkeeper at my place of employment my check will be late and because of that, their payment will be late. The rep says I'll note the account. I do exactly as I say I will and make the payment a day late. They charge me a late fee. I email customer service asking that the late fee be removed. They respond with a form letter saying they are "unable" to do so. I reply saying they are not unable but unwilling. And may I have permission to quote because I'm not going to pay since, in my opinion, I've done everything a responsible person should do in regards to them, especially when the situation was basically out of my control, and still they try to screw me (and I still have the documentation). They want me to call their customer service. I respond by asking if they don't indeed have my phone number and why should I do everything for them. I also add that if they have one person in their organization with common sense, please have that person call me. They finally remove the late charge. Two days ago I get a letter, another extortion attempt to the effect that they are jacking my interest rate to 26.99 percent and if I don't want to pay that I can close my account. And I'm going to tell them the same thing I told Washington Mutual--if my business isn't important enough to them to keep my account open and my rate at the current percent, then my money isn't good enough for them either, consequently, I'm not going to pay if they don't return my account to its present rate of interest AND keep my account open. And I will not pay them. And I will feel again that immense sense of relief. What the banks don't want you to know is that if you keep current on other accounts, your mortgage, your other cards and loans you might have with companies that aren't looking for every excuse to screw you, your over-valued "credit rating" (a tool to inspire fear if ever one was created) will recover in a couple of years.HSBC's move against me is clearly retaliation for the fight I had with them over the late fee.This is my year to stand up for myself against the banks. I don't give a damn about my credit rating any more. I already have my house. I feel the banks have a lot of nerve asking you to be perfect, to be super human and never forget a payment or suffer from a situation out of your control (such as a late pay check or a new bookkeeper) when they themselves cannot make their own payments or even remain solvent. Besides, why should these banks who would screw me get paid twice? They've already used their bought-and-paid-for Congress to stick their hands in my pockets. Enough is enough. I will keep my payments in my pocket, save my money, and let my credit rating fall where it may. Like I said, I keep my other payments on time and my rating will climb, not overnight, but it will climb back into the 700's where it was before I made a human error and forgot the payment to BOA.
