 My short stay in Cairo so far has been full of trials and tribulations.  There was, of course the time when I was kicked out of my first dorm room when the university decided that it had to convert it into a womens room. The housing manager called up to my room one day and informed me that he wanted to meet. When I came down, he delivered the good news and told me that I must pack up my things immediately and move a floor down. Although none too pleased about his announcement, I acquiesced and moved all of my belongings to my new room. In the course of all the hustle and bustle about the room switch, I somehow managed to lose my wallet. I noticed this only after the taxicab that the manager had called for me delivered me to the old campus and I reached into my pocket for some money to pay for a water bottle. My wallet, I discovered to my shock and horror, was not there. I double and triple checked my pockets and bag for any traces of it, but to no avail. I waited for the bus to take me back to the dorm, and when I got there the staff, which had been informed of the wallets disappearance, had already found it in the lobby.  Needless to say, I was very relieved at its safe recovery, but still slightly jolted from the whole terrible experience. I would be remiss if I left out two other inconveniences that received their fair share of my attention. First, an ATM machine ate my debit card. One day, I decided to test my card at an ATM on the old campus to see if it worked in Egypt. I walked right up to the ATM outside the International Commercial Bank, made my request for the modest sum of three hundred pounds, and waited. The machine made a big gulping noise and literally ate my debit card. I stood dumfounded for a minute wondering exactly what had occurred. The ATM spit out a piece of paper saying that my card had been taken for my own protection. I marched into the ICB office and, after waiting in a very long line, demanded an explanation for such crass behavior. I had already called the debit card people to tell them I would be going to Egypt, so there should be no problem. IBC informed me that a third party actually owned the machine. They might be able to get my card back for me in three or four days. Now three or four days Egyptian time means about a month in reality so I was definitely preparing myself for an extended separation from my card. I snarled, growled, and left the bank in ill humor. My mother later explained to me on the phone that Bank of America had sent me a new debit card that arrived the day after I left for Egypt.  My old card no longer worked, but the new card would be sent to me express and should arrived at the beginning of the next week. I pray that it does. Finally, the most pressing problem over the last couple of days has been the almost monumental difficulty I have had in falling asleep. I lay in bed for hours, tossing and turning from one side to the other. I had become so frazzled that when bedtime came I grew really afraid.  The bed that they give us in the dorm is thin and hard, the pillows slim, and the sheets uncomfortable. The bed is tucked into the corner in a kind of crevice behind the closet that makes me feel almost claustrophobic. In short I absolutely hate it. In fact, I hate nearly every aspect of my new room even though it is slightly larger than the old one. I had just become accustomed to the first one and settled in, having my first really good sleep in a long time when I was yanked out of it and forced into this cavern of a room. I considered renting an apartment, but I doubt that my parents would approve and I do not know if I want the extra hassle of moving yet again and this time into another building. Yes, all of these things have over the past couple of days annoyed me to no end. The room, the bed, the card, the trouble sleeping each took a toll on me. But perhaps the most hurtful, the pain that digs the deepest is my feeling of incredible isolation and the absence of friendship.  I see many students around every day on the old campus and in the dorm. But it always seems to fly by like ships passing one another in the open see. I know some people, I know of more people, but real friendship I have yet to find. And it bothers me. It bothers me perhaps even more than I could have ever known. 
