 Forbes Magazine recently put together a list of America's 10 fastest-dying cities, and Ohio topped the list with four of the ten: Youngstown, Canton, Dayton, and Cleveland. Michigan was next with Detroit and Flint.&amp;nbsp;In the slideshow that accompanies the article, the caption about Cleveland says "Only Pittsburgh and New Orleans have seen sharper population declines this decade, and New Orleans was because of a natural disaster." I remember--even in my lifetime,&amp;nbsp;well after the coal boom--when northeast Ohio was a place to be. Places (other than Michigan)&amp;nbsp;surrounding Ohio that made the list:&amp;nbsp;Scranton, PA; Charleston, WV (the only one&amp;nbsp;having an employment rate above the national average); and Buffalo, NY. Springfield, MA, is the only one on the list that's not in the rust belt.Conspicously absent from the list is Columbus (though perhaps not so conspicuous as Akron, which is between Cleveland and Youngstown), which is continuing to sprawl. Aside from being our state's capital (like Charleston), we have the nation's second-largest university (and several smaller ones), an international airport (though admittedly, Cinci gets a lot more traffic [Interesting side note--the Cincinnati airport isn't even in Ohio, let alone in Cincinnati.]), we're a logistics hub for this whole region of the country, and there are several thriving businesses, not least of all, Nationwide Insurance. Columbus has grown and annexed until it has consumed most of Franklin County. The metro area reaches out into&amp;nbsp;all of the surrounding counties, and I believe one of our metroparks is actually two counties away (in Hocking County, not even listed in the metro area on the map I linked to). Some real estate has been hurt, but not uniformly. I haven't looked at any actual analysis, but it appears to be mostly the new subdevelopments (the "cookie cutters" or "yuppie farms"--"cracker boxes," Mayda calls them, but I think that's a bit racist, not to mention inaccurate) have been hit. I've seen no decline in the value of big, old homes, and our little ghetto house has appreciated (a teensy bit), while the subdevelopments have dropped noticeably. My sister bought her house for probably something like a third less than what the previous owners paid, and her neighbors saw their house depreciate that much. But really, I think that has more to do with the fact that the big home builders in the area keep building more and more of those eyesores ever farther from the city, and folks are abandoning their two-year-old houses to go get a new one the way some people do with new cars. Columbus has seemingly had a bubble over it these past few years, protecting it&amp;nbsp;from the economic woes that have plagued the rest of the area. There have been some pinches lately, and gas prices climb here, too, of course, but we don't seem to be anywhere near the verge of collapse. Meanwhile, the rest of the state is dying, has been dead for decades, or never took&amp;nbsp;off in the first place. As their situation worsens, Columbus' improves. Is there a connection?If you read the article&amp;nbsp;at Forbes.com, take a look at the comments. Very illuminating.
