Apparently Barclays Bank in the UK has started closing the bank accounts of people even remotely associated with Iran. This was happening with Citibank in the US -- they even closed the account of an American-Iranian who had been temporarily detained in Iran against her will, even the account of... Apparently Barclays Bank in the UK has started closing the bank accounts of people even remotely associated with Iran. This was happening with Citibank in the US -- they even closed the account of an American-Iranian who had been temporarily detained in Iran against her will, even the account of her husband who had not visited Iran. I also happen to know that the account of a foreign reporter who was stationed in Iran was closed. (The irony that Citibank is closing these accounts for security reasons is simply laughable if you knew what was going on at Citibank which suggests you're better off not banking at Citibank!)But the interesting thing is that Barclays is applying US laws to the UK: Bank Saderat is on the US list of banned businesses. but not on the equivalent list in the UK, EU or UN. If it were, then Barclays would have no option but to close your accounts. But US jurisdiction does not run over here, and despite the tone of its letter, there is no legal obligation whatsoever for Barclays to close your accounts. The solution? File a legal complaint, and switch banks. I cannot persuade Barclays to overturn a board policy decision. I would take your case to the Financial Ombudsman Service which is certainly aware of Barclays' decision vis-avis Bank Saderat, but so far has had no formal complaint to investigate. But it is not an open-and-shut case. Fortunately other UK banks prefer to follow our Government's guidance rather than use American rules. Lloyds TSB and HSBC, for example, say they would have no difficulty with your circumstances. I'm not exactly sure what this sort of thing is supposed to accomplish, other than tick off the sort of folks that can only be helpful. I mean, its not like Ahmadinejad is particularly upset that American-Iranians will face pointless banking difficulties. Seems to me that the people behind this move are simply acting out of frustration. 
