Word of the day: TARP Police knew something was wrong when they spotted a massive safe jutting out of the trunk of a Ford Taurus on Dorchester Avenue in South Boston just before 10 a.m. yesterday, tied to the car with rope.    Within hours, a 24-year-old South Boston man, James Cotter Jr., was charged with receiving stolen [...] Word of the day: TARP Police knew something was wrong when they spotted a massive safe jutting out of the trunk of a Ford Taurus on Dorchester Avenue in South Boston just before 10 a.m. yesterday, tied to the car with rope.    Within hours, a 24-year-old South Boston man, James Cotter Jr., was charged with receiving stolen property. Cotter contended he found the safe at a Dorchester Avenue address the night before, left it at a friend&amp;#8217;s house, and they later decided to return it, according to police reports. Police stopped the men on the return trip. Cotter gave conflicting statements to police, but acknowledged he tried to open the safe, according to police reports. Some time overnight Monday, he allegedly told one friend that it belonged to a dead uncle. He brought it to another friend, who told him to get rid of it, the reports said. One of the friends was using his mother&amp;#8217;s car to help return the safe when they drew the attention of local residents, who called police. Cotter allegedly fled the area before police could arrive, but he was later brought in for questioning and arrested. He later told police that he found the safe in a garage, and acknowledged he tried to open it with tools, according to police reports. Police still do not know who owns the safe, which was described as gray, about 3 feet by 2 feet, with a hole in the rear of the casement. The safe did not have any serial numbers, and police plan to seek a warrant to gain access to it. Other word of the day: Idiot It seems flared pants are back in style in Revere. A home improvement contractor was indicted by a Suffolk grand jury Tuesday for allegedly trying to rob a Revere bank with a 74-word note and a bogus bomb made of road flares hed stuffed in his trousers. Bryan Sullivan, 50, of Melrose faces charges of armed assault with intent to rob, assault with a dangerous weapon and possession of a hoax device.  Sullivan, allegedly wearing a pink sweatshirt, jeans, Red Sox hat and sunglasses, was pounced on by Revere police as he attempted to leave Bank of America on American Legion Highway June 18. The bomb is fake, Sullivan allegedly told officers who ordered him to the ground and pulled several road flares bundled together with black electrical tape and colored wires from this pants. According to prosecutors, Sullivan passed a teller a long-winded note and instructed her to meet him in the parking lot with the money. She called 911 instead. Sullivans missive that missed the mark read: Do exactly what the note says and no one will get hurt. This bomb can be set off from a half-mile away. It will be left outside, so wait 20 minutes before calling police. Put $40,000 in this bag. The faster you do this the faster this will be over. Relax and no one gets hurt, the note continued. Dont put anything in the bag except money. It will be checked when I get to the car. 
