  "Joe Biden is a rare mix. A leader who has worked for decades in Washington, but has never lived there. An expert on foreign policy, whose heart and values are firmly rooted in the middle class; one who has stared down dictators, and spoken for America's cops and firefighters. He is uniquely suited to serve as Barack&amp;#8217;s partner in the urgent mission to bring about the change America needs to put our country back on track."Source: Barack Obama WebsiteExcerpt from an article in today's WSJ entitled "Scrutiny of Biden FocusesOn Lobbyist Ties, Family":Sen. Barack Obama's choice of Sen. Biden as his running mate, cheered by Democrats because of Sen. Biden's foreign-policy expertise, is coming under fire from Republicans who are painting him as an old-style insider. They cite his longstanding ties to trial lawyers and lobbyists and a taste for pork-barrel spending, which their likely presidential nominee, Sen. John McCain, has opposed.Sen. Biden, who proudly cites his working-class roots in Scranton, Pa., is one of the least-wealthy members of the Senate, meaning he has fewer potential conflicts of interest on that front than other candidates might have had. But he has collected $6.5 million in campaign contributions from lobbyists, lawyers and law firms since 1989, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics.Trial lawyers in Mississippi, including plaintiffs attorney Dickie Scruggs, who pleaded guilty in May to attempting to bribe a judge, raised $70,000 for Sen. Biden last year, records show. A Biden spokesman said that all contributions from anyone implicated in the bribery case were donated to a charity.Sen. Biden has received $214,000 from employees and executives of credit-card giant MBNA, now a unit of Bank of America Corp., the Center for Responsive Politics said. He has been a strong supporter of the Delaware bank, backing a tough bankruptcy bill in 2005 that was one of MBNA's top legislative priorities. Sen. Obama opposed the bill and criticized Sen. McCain's support for it in the campaign.Comment: It looks like Ol' Joe has been changed by Washington and is a consumate Washington insider. So much for Obama's change!  
