Five business owners and a former city manager have been appointed to the Center City Corridor Improvement Authority, a newly created government body charged with guiding development of the Circle and South Saginaw Road. Four of the appointees &amp;#8212; Joe Kozuch, Jerry Deming, Gregory Adkins and David Ginis &amp;#8212; own businesses within the corridor, as required [...] Five business owners and a former city manager have been appointed to the Center City Corridor Improvement Authority, a newly created government body charged with guiding development of the Circle and South Saginaw Road. Four of the appointees &amp;#8212; Joe Kozuch, Jerry Deming, Gregory Adkins and David Ginis &amp;#8212; own businesses within the corridor, as required by the ordinance setting up the authority. A fifth, Clinton Struthers, formerly owned a business within the corridor and owns businesses elsewhere in the city. Former City Manager Clifford Miles is the sixth appointment.  City Manager Jon Lynch, who made the appointments, will also serve on the panel or will appoint a designee.  The City Council will be asked to confirm the appointments at its meeting at 7 p.m. Monday in City Hall. Kozuch, 4129 N. Jefferson Ave., is the owner of Village Green. He was appointed to a four-year term. Deming, 872 S. Pinecroft Lane, the owner of the Ponderosa Steakhouse, was appointed to a three-year term. Appointed to two-year terms were Struthers, 409 Capitol Drive, with Struthers Financial Services, and Miles, 2008 Belaire, who is now a part-time employee of Midland Tomorrow, the city and county economic development council. One-year terms went to Adkins, 2904 Dawn Drive, a commercial banking client manager with Bank of America; and Ginis, 5011 Sturgeon Creek Parkway, owner of Ginis Goldsmiths. The board will oversee the South Saginaw Road/Ashman Circle commercial corridor, which extends from Manor Drive to Patrick Road, in accordance with the Michigan Corridor Improvement Authority Act. Established by the City Council in May, the authority will be responsible for analysis, short- and long-term planning, marketing, event coordination, promotion and the construction, rehabilitation, preservation and reconstruction of buildings and facilities within the district.&amp;#8211;By John Palen 
