Passing thoughts: Sign in a 2nd Ave. laundry: " We do shirts better. Cost the same as your favorite grand latte." Advertisers who insist on casting kids to spout complicated financial copy in their TV commercials end up with gibberish...      Passing thoughts: Sign in a 2nd Ave. laundry: " We do shirts better. Cost the same as your favorite grand latte." Advertisers who insist on casting kids to spout complicated financial copy in their TV commercials end up with gibberish and are wasting their money. Cutesy but totally lacking credibility. Might as well use a parrot and save on residuals. Would you buy life insurance from Ian, my eight year old grandson? AIG thinks you would.  How did P&amp;amp;G ever transition from kindly old Mr. Whipple, who with a wink would so politely ask customers to refrain from squeezing Charmin, to animated bears in the woods. At a lunch with ad people the other day not one of us could rationalize the current Charmin campaign other than to consider it an outgrowth of the well known expression, "Does a bear poop in the woods?" This from Procter&amp;amp;Gamble, the most politically correct of all advertisers? We could only conclude if its selling toilet paper dont ask. At a floor high in the fifties of the Empire State Building in 1956&amp;nbsp;I went to work for Ralf Shockey and Associates. Shockey was a sales promotion outfit with a handful of creative people, writers and art directors. Ralph Shockey was a well known sales promotion specialist who because of his reputation and connections attracted blue chips who desperately needed promotion help that they were not getting from their ad agencies. So it was here that I got to create ideas and colateral material that would supplement the advertising produced by ad agencies. . Accounts included Chrysler, Corning, G.E, various Seventh Avenue fashion houses. I remember writing a booklet for G.E to be distributed to retailers entitled, " Thirty One Ways to Promote G.E. Small Appliances In Store." Believe me it was a strain to reach thirty one and I wonder if any store ever even implemented half the ideas. We even designed sales meetings for our accounts. I was finally working on some big league stuff, a far cry from Winthrops Vacuum Cleaners and Stenchevers Shoes in Paterson. And the views from my office were spectacular. At Shockey I learned to do writers roughs, visualizations of the copy I wrote and how I expected it to complement the planned illustrations and folds of a mailing piece for example. Size, number of pages, where pictures fit, headlines and sub headlines. I was not doing the art directors job but was pointing him or her in the direction the finished layout should take. As a copywriter I thought that my turf was the wording and the layout and visuals were the exclusive province of the art director. Instead I began to see the importance of thinking visually even before a word was ever written. Verbalization and visualization in advertising are intertwined and any good copywriter is skilled in visualizing and vice versa for a good art director. In my career I have seen art directors write some of the best lines and copywriters come up with the most arresting layouts. For example an art director came up with the line for P&amp;amp;G's Rely tampons, "It Even Absorbs the Worry." An ad I wrote while at Y&amp;amp;R began with a tight close-up of a bowl of Jell-O Chocolate Pudding to depict smoothness, &amp;nbsp;"Jell-O Believes You've Taken Enough Lumps In Your Life." One day while in the john on our floor in the Empire State in came Joel Frede who was Shockey's right hand man. While standing at the urinal next to me, he says, " How you doing Alvin? You know we just lost one of our biggest accounts. We're going to have to cut back. I'm sorry Alvin but I have to ask you to leave."&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Here I was taking a leak and suddenly&amp;nbsp;I'm in shock at&amp;nbsp;Shockey.&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;" "Are you kidding? But Joel you just hired me about three months ago."&amp;nbsp;  " I know Alvin but it's LIFO, last in first out."  "All I could say was, ' I can't belive this. The clients are&amp;nbsp; buying my work.Everyone thought I was doing a good job." A little later back&amp;nbsp;in the office, he comes over, nudges me with his elbow and quietly says, "Hey Alvin forget what I told you in there. It's a mistake. Apparently when word got around the office&amp;nbsp; that I had been fired the creative people&amp;nbsp;practically assaulted Joel and let him know he blew it. "You fired the wrong guy." So about&amp;nbsp;fifteen minutes after I was fired I was rehired. And as for the method of dismissal, &amp;nbsp;Joel&amp;nbsp;Frede really pissed me off.&amp;nbsp; Russ was a public relations specialist at Shockey. &amp;nbsp;One day he invited me to join him for a drink after work when he was meeting Walter Weiner, head of public relations at Young &amp;amp; Rubicam. "You'll like Walter and maybe he can help you get a hearing at Y &amp;amp; R." At the time I felt "Well&amp;nbsp;another one of those help you get a job introductions, but what the hell I'll go and meet the man."    
