 Friday:Headed off to Tashy's house to meet up with mistressmuffin, funktress, and christopherfbh for some Solid Gold Dance Party fun at the Bank of America Pavilion!  We got VIP tickets and spent most of the night in the VIP tent, but made it out to watch a few performers and The Village People.  The Solid Gold Dancers that they had between the acts were horrible.  So horrible, in fact, that they were funny to watch.  I didn't realize that the Pavilion wouldn't be serving hard liquor and since I can't drink beer or malt liquor, I drank champagne.  I think I'm champagned out for the months of August and September!  We continued our drinking fun at Noir in Harvard Sq. until we couldn't drink anymore.  It was an amazingly awesome night!Saturday:HEROES was a ton of fun!  The energy was high and there were a lot of people there that I didn't expect to see, but was very happy to see!  We had a good sized crowd too.  Each HEROES I notice the same thing happening.  I don't recognize anyone in the crowd.  Sure there are the people I usually hang out with (about 10 people) and then there at the HEROES regulars (about 15  20 people), but the rest of the crowd are unfamiliar faces.  Thats awesome!  Some how, some way, I'm reaching out to new people all the time.  I'm started to see a few of the new faces become repeat faces, but let's hope the rest of the newbie's become regulars too!  christopherfbh spun a great set and kept the crowd on the floor!  Thanks to feather_brain70 and talesinsdaughtr for the help with set up and break down.Sunday:feather_brain70 and I bought a new dinning room set from IKEA.  It was his first time visiting an IKEA and he had a blast.  We shopped the show rooms and decided to purchase the same table that pax_industria owns, but matched it with all wood chairs.  We also shopped around for new dressers since the ones we have suck.  Once our dinning room furniture was picked out we shopped the lower floor with all of the little decorative goodies reside.  We got some new cooking utensils for the kitchen and a new wok.  I got a new plant and a new stuffed animal.  It's a rat and I've named him Chester.  We got a few more odds and ends for the house and then made our way home.  My old dinning room set will go to jedi and join the rest of my old furniture at his house.  Monday:I stayed home sick and slept until 1p.  I really needed it.  I've been feeling a bit congested and I can't stop sneezing.  My summer allergies are getting to me.  I rearranged the dinning room a bit and the living room too.  It looks nice, now we'll see if it's functional.  I made it out to Ceremony last night where I got to see a lot of people I haven't seen in a while!  That was awesome and I should make it out to Down with Tempo more often.  Today:I plan on making it through the day and then collapsing at home on the sofa.  Exciting, huh?  Oh and Happy Birthday spud!
