Not all of you..but most of my friends know my long time friend, K. A few days ago, there was a terrible accident in her parents home here in Orlando.The dryer threw off a spark in their laundry room &amp; there was an explosion. Unfortunately, K's Nephew (2 year old Aiden) was following his grandmother and pushed the door open &amp; walked in the the room right when it happened. K's Mom, Teresa...rushed in to save Aiden &amp; both were burnt. Aiden was severely burnt with 3rd degree burns....more than 50% of his body.Aiden &amp; his grandmother were transported to the hospital. She was admitted &amp; is still being treated for her burns. Aiden has been transported to Shriners hospital in Cincinnati, OH for further treatment. (The 1 burn center for children in the US) .Aiden has been stabilized. He has a good chance of making a full recovery...BUT....Aiden's home was a rental. The Landlord did not have homeowners insurance. His family is now homeless and Aiden is looking at long term care. He will be in Shriners hospital for MANY months. When children are burned this severely, they are facing surgery after surgery until they stop growing. As they grow, the scar tissue does not stretch and grow with them.So, besides sharing Aiden's story and his struggle to come...I am posting this because I have been trying to figure out what I can do to help. Tomorrow I am going to send Aiden a teddy bear &amp; balloons to cheer up his room...But I want to do more.I was thinking about throwing an event/benefit... or something &amp; have all profits go to Aiden &amp; his family. But I can't do it alone obviously. SO, if anyone who has got connects with a club or wants to do an underground charity event for the family, please contact me.I know that K's Girlfriend Mindy is setting up an account with Bank of America. I will post that info as soon as I have the account numbers. If anyone can contribute, even as little as a dollar...It would be a great help.If you can't contribute time or monetarily...Please just stop in to her myspace &amp; leave a comment or prayer for Aiden. K is on my friends list as, K is Special.Thank you,- Twink 
