Item: AIG life Insurance Location:  by rich   Review: I was once told pretty rich man that the best way for you to build wealth and maintain it in a long term way is the existence of life insurance and at the time I had just shrugged it off since he was a lot older than I [...] Item: AIG life Insurance Location:  by rich   Review: I was once told pretty rich man that the best way for you to build wealth and maintain it in a long term way is the existence of life insurance and at the time I had just shrugged it off since he was a lot older than I was and I figured that he probably needed the life insurance and he was looking for a way to justify having to pay for the premiums. However, I learn a few years ago that this man was correct and that most people would be a lot better off in the long run if they actually knew this. A while back my aunt had a health scare and she had decided that it was the best thing for the well being of her family if both her and her husband got some life insurance coverage in the event that something were to happen to one of them because they did not want their two kids left without anyone to provide for me and god forbid the children were too young to provide for themselves then there would be nowhere for the kids to turn. They decided to each get a life insurance policy for the amount of $ 250, 000 through America In General life insurance because it was the most inexpensive policy they could find (it charged for $40 a month) and they felt that if the time did come it would be a lot better for their children to have the money available. Well,  it was a good thing that they decided to get coverage in the event of a disaster because last year my uncle had went to bed at night and he never woke up in the morning. His wife was now left to shoulder to burden of the children, the bills and the house on her own and this was way to much for her if you consider the fact that she only had a part time job and she was getting older so it would  have been hard to find something new.  Well, it is a good thing  that they had these policies in place because she was awarded the amount of the policy and she was able to use that amount to do a lot of this. She used it to pay off the remainder of the balance of the loan on their home, she put some away so that she could live at a decent standard and the rest she put into a savings account for the children so that they would have money for college when the time came. This policy is the one thing that makes it possible for her to stay above water after her situation and she still pays for the policy which covers herself just in case something were to happen to her. You never can be sure when something will go wrong and she does not want her kids left with nothing, she was very satisfied with the policy and the low rates and this is the rest she still holds the policy for herself. It cant be terminated and she had never been called in to take an exam, she was paid what she was promised  in the policy and for that she has been very happy with this company.   Rating: 10 
