Back in the U.S of A.Saturday, August 23, 2008 at 1:13pmSo finally after a year and a half I'm back in the United States of America and I love it :0)   Danya and I have just got back from a desert road trip which took us through three different States, a lot of dust, mountains and beautiful scenery. We took a trip into San Diego yesterday so I could get an idea of where we will be living. San Diego was all I had been lead to believe and much more; I'm confident we will be able to make a very good life for ourselves based there. Thats all for now folks! I'll keep you all updated. The next few weeks are going to be hectic as we will both be looking for work, apartments etc so sorry in advance if I drop off the radar for a while. Laters JGBanks, Cars and Employment... Thursday, September 18, 2008 at 8:42pmFirstly a big apology for not getting back to everyone individually; and secondly thanks for everyone that wrote. I finally have my Social Security number which will make it easier for me to apply for jobs; or a Yob as it is pronounced out here! Myself and Danya have been applying for everything we can in downtown San Diego, but as of yet nothing that looks very promising. I did work for a little while for an Italian restaurant right in the centre of the Gaslamp District of San Diego, but due to their payment issues (lack of!!!) I no longer work there. We have also been looking for a new car as Danya's lease is up. We fell in love and bought a SMART car (Just like you suggested James!) which turned out not be a very smart move! We ended up getting the dealer to take the car back and refund us in full. The car was great fun on the city streets, but scary as hell on the freeway (think the M25 but much wider, sooo much faster and with total nutters trying to race you because they have never seen such a small car before). I think thats about it for now. The weather is hot, hot, hot. Not as humid as where Kyle is (thank god) and my tan is coming along just fine :0) I'm off to LA for the weekend as HSBC only has branches over there (trust me to open an account with a tiny two bit bank) and we have to return the Z4 :0( Catch you laters JG    
