 Commonwealth Bank customers across Australia found themselves short of money on Tuesday after an on-line glitch mistakenly duplicated withdrawals from their accounts.  The bank said the problem occurred in processing overnight.  It hoped to rectify it quickly but announced late Tuesday customers would need to wait another day for their accounts to be settled.  CBA spokesman Steven Batten told AAP that money was taken out of some accounts following bill payments and withdrawals over the weekend.  'Overnight, there were some transactions that have been duplicated as a result of a processing problems,' Mr Batten said.  'We're still trying to confirm the cause and we understand around 200,000 customers have been impacted.'  He said customers who had incurred fees from the bank because of the error would be refunded automatically.  Those who were hit with fees from third parties should contact the bank for advice.  One man told Fairfax Radio that he pulled into a petrol station at 1am (AEDT) on Tuesday and went to pay with his credit card but was told there was no money in his account when there was supposed to be over $5,000.  NSW man Ben Nurmi told News Limited he had been left badly out of pocket by the bungle.  'I'm now overdrawn by around $150,000 and my mortgage is $180,000 - larger than it should be thanks to this. I can't even get money out of an ATM to get lunch or put fuel in my car,' he said.  'I've been told due to the size of my account the earliest things will get resolved will be Monday next week. How excellent.'  Melbourne man Anthony Coralluzzo advocated a return to simpler times.  'I'm down 40 grand. We need to end the hegemony of bankers with their fractional reserve 'chequebook money' fraud,' he told News Limited.  'We need to go back to commodity standards, money that actually exists in physical form and is not just a bunch of numbers on a computer that can be erased 'accidentally'.'  Customer Jennifer Kernick said the glitch was all too familiar to her.  'The previous incident which affected my account was approximately three years ago and it was such a hassle to get my account credited again (all debits were duplicated) and it proved impossible to get reimbursement for the overdraft fee charged due to CBA's error,' she said.  'It was the only time my account had ever been in overdraft and I got charged for it!'  But the CBA has agreed to reverse any fees charged because of the error.  'The bank will ensure that no fees or interest is charged to its customers as a result of this problem,' the bank said in a statement.  'The bank is reversing the duplicated transactions from customer accounts which will reinstate customer amounts to their correct position.  'This will be finalised overnight.'  
