We walked with a certain swagger, and I can promise you, the cockiness was earned. With a bit of blood and whole lot of sweat. We worked on the assembly line in Linden in New Jersey. Some 5,500 assembly workers we were.  And the work was so hot and heavy and hard that, in deep summer, when Hades was only about a quarter of a mile straight down. Well, we looked up at the tall skylight in the rood  and we prayed for rain. And, once in a while, when our prayers were answered, we yelled and cheered. We let the rain splash down, wetting our faces. You see, the assembly line cannot operate when it rains.  We were members of the UAW (United Auto Workers). We were probably the highest paid hourly workers in the whole wide world. That was another reason for our swagger. Then, ol Charley Wilson, known as Engine Charley, had said only a few days before that, As General Motors goes, so goes the nation. Engine Charley was President Dwight Eisenhowers Secretary of Defense. And even though he was embarrassingly dumb when it came to things military, Wilson flat-out was knowledgeable about producing hard goods, for he had been the longtime president of General Motors. Observing his maneuvers, Wilson had asked, What are those little red streaks out there? referring to tracer bullets. But we were, of course, still under the influence of Wilson at GM plant in New Jersey. We would, in that year of massive production, set a record of $10 billion in profits, the world record at the time for any manufacturing company (or any corporation anywhere, for that matter). And those were real dollars way back there 50 years ago. So, I reckon we did have a reason for the swagger.  Those distant days are just that  distant  real distant. But it saddens my heart to see the present day plight of General Motors. The GM stock has been reduced to just two dollars and change per share; this is junk bond status, and how in the whole wide world did it come down to this.  GM and Ford saved our fannies back in World War II. Ford produced warplanes, such as the B-24, like no one could believe. Its assembly line almost spit one out every few hours up n Dearborn. The GM was great, too.  And now, when the U.S. government produces billions to save AIG, an insurance company, well, they cant find a few billion more to save the Big Three, GM, Ford and Chrysler  well, it makes little sense to me. And warships  why, the U.S. Army Air Corps pilots, why they would be waiting in their flight suits, and as the B-24s left the assembly line, well, the pilots would taxi them to the nearby runway, just behind the huge assembly factory, and the beautiful and sleek planes would lift their nose into the air, kick suddenly into high gear, and they would fly straight out and into combat across the long sea. There was no time for a shakedown flight; a war was on, and the Nazi and the Nippon just had to be beaten. And they were. When I was at GM in Jersey, we were indeed a proud lot. The government threatened to break up General Motors. It was thought to be a monopoly. DuPont owned 26 percent of GM stock, and the carmaker had to finally divest itself of most of the investment. But, really now, if we can afford to provide just about 100 percent of the defense of Japan, and all this for the past 60 something years, why in the world cant we afford to grant the Big Three auto giants $25 billion in loans? After all, the auto folks are going to repay the money.  Bill Robinson lives in the Chambers County community of Buffalo and writes a column for the Opelika-Auburn News.  
