STORY TOOLS  More Local Business  American General Financial Services is closing 175 branches throughout the country.  At least one of them is in Evansville, said a spokesman with American International Group, the parent company of American General. Peter Tulupman said wasnt sure Friday which Evansville branch would be closed or if any other branches in the Tri-State region would be affected.  He also didnt know date by which the closings would occur. Calls to the American General Finance headquarters, in Evansville, were not immediately returned. The company employs around 1,400 workers in Evansville.  The closings were taken to better position American General Financial Services for future growth, Tulupman said.  After the 175 branches are closed, American General Finance will run about 1,400 branches throughout the country.  The folks in the closed branches are going to be reassigned to other branches where possible, Tulupman said. If not possible, they will be offered severance and outplacement services.  AIG bought American General Finance in 2001. The subsidiary enjoyed profits of $90 million in 2007 and $431 million in 2006. But in the first half of 2008, it lost $63 million.  AIG officials recently hinted that it may sell American General Finance to pay back federal loans meant to save the company from bankruptcy. At the same time, they have expressed doubts that they could elicit a fair offer for the subsidiary, in part because of the large number of subprime loans on its books.  By June 30, the companys branch division had recorded $7.7 billion in subprime or nonprime loans. Its centralized real-estate division had $2.5 billion of such loans.  The companys total real-estate loans came to about $19.4 billion by June 30.  To pay back money borrowed from the federal government, AIG has said it will sell most of its subsidiaries not involved in property or casualty insurance.  Of the original $85 billion offered AIG by the federal government, the company has borrowed $61 billion. It has also drawn down $19.9 billion from $37.8 billion later offered.  AIG plans to release a report on its third-quarter earnings Monday. It will discuss the results during a conference call at 5 p.m. Central Time.  Work meanwhile continues on an American General Finance office building in the 600 block of Northwest Second Street, near the companys headquarters. The cost of the project is about $35 million.  Comments  Posted by BobABooey on November 7, 2008 at 1:23 p.m. (Suggest removal)  What a mess. I would be looking for a new job immediately if I worked for them.  Posted by pixiepoo on November 7, 2008 at 1:33 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Sorry for the people that may lose their jobs.  Posted by Randini on November 7, 2008 at 1:40 p.m. (Suggest removal)  BOHICA Bend over here it comes again. Let's see, AIG received bailout money but they are closing 175 branches. I'm sure the big boys at AIG will have their platinum parachutes at the expense of those who do the work. You might remember that AIG execs went to a spa and spent almost $500,000 on BS. Some people NEVER learn and greed rules.  Posted by Green_Eyes on November 7, 2008 at 1:50 p.m. (Suggest removal)  The AP reported that there will be at least 1 &amp;amp; maybe More AMGF offices in Evansville, that Will be Closing!  Posted by straightcashhomey on November 7, 2008 at 2:03 p.m. (Suggest removal)  By FAR the worst company I have ever worked for in my life. I left them just before 2 years of service due to ethical conflicts between them and I. Ethics does not exist whatsoever in this company!  Posted by GameOver on November 7, 2008 at 2:19 p.m. (Suggest removal)  When the $700B bailout passed, I thought they said that the local branches would not be affected?  Posted by bm545454 on November 7, 2008 at 2:47 p.m. (Suggest removal)  I look to see the branch at the corner of Covert and green river close.  Posted by Warden on November 7, 2008 at 3:16 p.m. (Suggest removal)  First half of 08 lost $63 million  Gets $61 BILLION and $20 BILLION more  but can't keep offices open  And going to 'release a report on its third-quarter earnings on Monday'  Is it $80 BILLION+ ??  That amount should earn those execs some gold in their parachutes!! They brought in bucco bucks! Nevermind what the balance sheet says...  Posted by IndianaU on November 7, 2008 at 3:22 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Darnit....I was just about to go get a 14% personal loan from them too.  Posted by momofthree on November 7, 2008 at 3:46 p.m. (Suggest removal)  My daughter works for American General and HATES it. She's already looking to quit ASAP. I've heard others say they worked there and they also didn't like it.  Posted by IndianaU on November 7, 2008 at 3:53 p.m. (Suggest removal)  It is better to have a job you don't like than to not have a job.  There are people who hate working at Toyota. There are people who hate working at Alcoa. There are people that hate working at McDonald's.  The truth is.....some people just hate WORKING.  Posted by alustria24 on November 7, 2008 at 4:17 p.m. (Suggest removal)  I also worked their and I love to work. However being harrassed a job and complaining about and then getting terminated for it is ridiculous. It was crazy because I was the fifth person to claim it against a Man that Worked at American General and everyone of us got fired...seems odd to me  Posted by misslady on November 7, 2008 at 4:36 p.m. (Suggest removal)  I am saddened for those who will lose their jobs b/c of AIG's incompetence in this whole fiasco.  Posted by Dadx2 on November 7, 2008 at 5:16 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Amazing news...  After getting people in terrible loans for many, many years, it finally catches up. A friend of mine worked in the same industry and told me how they 'upsold' bad loan arrangements to people.  Greed makes companies do terrible things. American General was one of the worst.  Posted by Mike01 on November 7, 2008 at 5:37 p.m. (Suggest removal)  When Aztar fired 20 people, Weinzapfel went after them.  Where is he now?  Posted by HoosierDaddy on November 7, 2008 at 5:58 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Looks like a little education is needed for most of you who have posted so far (Randini, GameOver, Warden, et al)...  AIG's bailout money did not go to AGF, it went to AIG. AIG is in New York. AIG is in financial trouble, not AGF. AGF could probably operate as it's own company - public or private - if it so chose to do so without the need to be owned by some other larger entity.  As for branches being closed - it's all economics. Whoever is the least productive gets cut. Circuit City is doing it, and other companies as well. As was stated in the press release, this is being done to better position itself in the market when a buyer comes forward. No one wants to buy a bleeding company, so you stop the bleeding by getting rid of that which makes you bleed - under-producers.  I'm sure there will be more to come.  Posted by Lt_Jim_Dangle on November 7, 2008 at 8:15 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Hoosier Daddy sounds like one of them with the golden parachute. Toeing the company line like someone who isnt worried about thier job. AGF may just be positioning themselves to sell all their paper to a competitor and shut down their whole operation. Then the top 5 or 6 execs will take thier million dollar severance packages and crap on the rest.  Posted by sarge1234 on November 7, 2008 at 8:48 p.m. (Suggest removal)  I was a manager for many yrs. I was just told one morning my office was closing the next day and that me &amp;amp; my staff had 2 hrs to make OUR decision to transfer or leave the company. WOW how they took care of us.  Posted by spiderwick on November 7, 2008 at 9:10 p.m. (Suggest removal)  I have known a couple of individuals who worked for AGF they could care less about you. You seem shocked. Can't believe it took you that long to figure them out.  Posted by Lt_Jim_Dangle on November 7, 2008 at 9:23 p.m. (Suggest removal)  Don't personally know but it sounds to me like valuing people is not part of thier corporate culture. You run into that every now and then. On the other hand they have been around awhile so they must be doing something right.  IndianaU, HoosierDaddy -- thank you for making excellent points. The other comments, for the most part, are so ignorant. American General Finance is a subsidiary of AIG. They DID NOT get a check for $120 billion. They can, have, and will operate successfully on their own. They are closing a small percentage (about 11%) of their local branches and the branches that will be closed are most likely underperforming. These branches employ roughly 10 people each, so thankfully, not a large number of people will be losing their jobs. Momofthree, if your daughter hates it, then tell her to quit and find a job that will pay her as much somewhere else. And wish her luck too with that search. One last point, if you dont know exactly what the company can offer you on a loan, then why are you making uneducated comments about APRs? If you have a loan w/ them &amp;amp; youre not satisfied w/ the terms, then get a loan w/ another company that has better terms. Its really very simple.  
