THE Commonwealth Bank has fixed up the problem that short-changed around 200,000 people due to a computer glitch.  Process duplication meant that all withdrawals yesterday had been done twice, leaving people with less money in their accounts.   But the bank said today that the problem had now been fixed and all its customers' accounts were back in order. 'Any fees or interest incurred as a result of this problem will also be automatically reversed,' a CBA spokesman said.  of being left short with bills and rent to pay after the processing error wiped money and transactions from their accounts. 'I'm broke... it's taken all my money in my account,' said Eddie. 'I don't even know how I'm going to pay my bills today.' Some angry customers threatened to sue Commonwealth and wondered how the bank could charge customers for overdrawn accounts after such a debacle. 'I have real issues when $7000.00 goes missing out of my account,' said Joanne. 'CBA has a lot to answer for when they can just deduct from customers' accounts and not have to give a valid reason. 'If a customer lets an account overdraw in error they are charged a fee. Who can the customers send the notice to and claim their fee?' One customer told of his shock after $17,000 disappeared from his account due to the computer bungle.   Frank told 3AW radio that he runs an internet business and got a shock when he checked his online accounts as usual this morning. 'I had to take a double take,' he said. 'From around 17 grand it was about $200 overdrawn.' 'I was thinking, my account's been hijacked.' Another angry customer told us they had been left with no money after the bungle. 'I transferred $500 yesterday and CBA has now deducted $1000 from my account leaving me with no money today,' said Renae. 'I'm glad they wont be charging me interest. I should be charging them interest on the additional $500 they have taken.' A Commonwealth spokesman apologised to all customers affected, said the problem had been identified and said all accounts would be rectified as soon as possible.  Yesterday, CBA spokesman Steven Batten said that money was taken out of some accounts following bill payments and withdrawals over the weekend. 'Overnight, there were some transactions that have been duplicated as a result of a processing problems,' Mr Batten said. He said customers who had incurred fees from the bank because of the error would be refunded automatically.   Those who were hit with fees from third parties should contact the bank for advice.  
