(RTTNews) - President-elect Barack Obama will honor fallen U.S. soldiers on Veterans Day by placing a wreath on a Chicago memorial to those who have lost their lives defending the United States. Americans will take pause today to honor servicemen as the country is engaged in two wars overseas.  Obama issued a statement Tuesday in observance of Veterans Day, recognizing the wars that he will soon inherit as he prepares to assume the role of Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces.  'Our veterans are part of an unbroken line of heroes who have defended the American people and stood up for American values - from the beaches of Normandy to the battles in East Asia; from the deserts of Kuwait to the skies above Kosovo; from the cities of Iraq to the mountains of Afghanistan,' he said in the statement. 'Since 9/11, a new generation of American heroes has borne a heavy load in facing down the threats of the 21st century, and their families have been asked to bear the painful absence of a loved one.'  'These Americans are the best and bravest among us, and they are all in our thoughts and prayers,' Obama added.  The president-elect asked Americans to 'rededicate ourselves' to those who have served in the Armed Forces, pledging that 'America will serve you as well as you have served your country.'  'As your next Commander-in-Chief, I promise to work every single day to keep that sacred trust with all who have served. May God bless our veterans, and may God bless the United States of America,' he said.  Obama and wife Michelle visited the White House Monday, taking a tour of their future living quarters and speaking with current President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush. In the meeting, Obama reportedly urged Bush to help struggling automakers.  Evidence that Detroit automakers are in serious trouble was reinforced Monday, when Barclays Capital downgraded General Motors Corp. (GM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) shares to Underweight from Equal Weight and lowered its price target to $1 from $4.  In addition, analyst Brian Johnson warned that without additional funding, GM's gross cash is likely to fall below minimum needs in first quarter of 2009 - meaning the company would be bankrupt by December 2008.  While further government assistance would decrease the likelihood of a GM bankruptcy, the analyst believes any government assistance would likely significantly dilute GM's equity.  However, while Obama and his Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel have both expressed support for helping the auto industry, the White House is less than supportive. Monday, the White House reiterated that additional Congressional measures would be needed for the government to provide more support for struggling U.S. automakers.  Press Secretary Dana Perino said that help for automakers had not been a part of discussions when Congress was working to pass the $700 billion financial rescue package.  As a result, she said, it would not be appropriate for the administration to unilaterally shift funds from the financial sector to the automotive industry.  'There was not discussion of specific help to auto companies during that debate, and so the Congress's intent was to help financial institutions,' Perino said.  Perino's statement comes in the wake of the administration easing the terms of a bailout package for insurance giant American International Group (AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) and a letter over the weekend from Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., urging the Treasury Department to consider using the financial rescue funds to help automakers.  In the letter, Reid and Pelosi argued that the legislation had given Treasury broad discretion to allocate funds in a way to best support the economy.  'Congress granted you broad discretion to purchase, or make commitments to purchase, financial instruments you determine necessary to restore financial market stability,' they wrote.  'A healthy automobile manufacturing sector is essential to the restoration of financial market stability, the overall health of our economy, and the livelihood of the automobile sector's workforce,' the letter continued.  However, Perino said that the letter was not indicative of the intent of Congress when it passed the financial bailout package.  While the Energy Department is now accepting applications for federally-backed loans to help automakers and their suppliers retool for more environmentally friendly vehicles, Perino said that was the limit of the administration's ability to support the industry.  'Congress is going to come back into town next week. If they decide to try to do something more on the auto industry we would listen to them,' Perino said. 'We have to move forward with what we can do with the statutes that Congress has authorized us to put forward.'  For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights Reserved  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
