NEW YORK 'Why am I sitting here?' Kozlowski asked during the interview with the Fox Business Network from the Mid-State Correctional prison in upstate New York. 'Tyco is still a viable company. ... Bear Stearns is under. ...Lehman Brothers is under. ... Merrill Lynch had to be acquired. There are all kinds of banks going under right now. 'I would think that the financial world would say, 'Please bring back the $6,000 shower curtain.' You know, that seems like nothing in the middle of everything that's going on right now.' Kozlowski said he 'cannot imagine' where hundreds of billions of dollars is going during the current government bailout effort, but he was surprised to hear that insurance giant AIG spent money on retreats and spa vacations after the bailout effort began. 'If that's true,' he said, 'if that really happened, that's criminal. That's really bad.' Kozlowski was convicted in 2005, along with former Tyco chief financial officer Mark Swartz, of fraud and larceny of hundreds of millions of Tyco's money, which included $2 million for a birthday party in Italy for Kozlowski's wife and the infamous $6,000 shower curtain for his luxurious New York City apartment.  Tyco, formerly based in New Hampshire, owns ADT Worldwide Security and this month reported fourth-quarter net income of $434 million and revenue of $5.28 billion. Its stock is trading around $21 a share after losing more than 45 percent of its value since January.  The company is registered in Bermuda, but runs it U.S. operations from New Jersey.  Kozlowski said he was 'shocked' and devastated when his latest court appeal for a new trial was denied, and said he's met murderers and rapists in state prison who 'have far less of a sentence than I have.' Kozlowski, 60, and Swartz, 47, were sentenced to 8-to-25 years after being convicted of conspiracy, grand larceny, securities fraud and falsifying business records. Prosecutors said the two amassed $170 million in unauthorized compensation and $430 million through stock manipulation.  Great , they can go to jail too. Kozlowski belongs behind bars. Lots of execs from those banks and insurance companies will get their chance to join him. Well deserved and long overdue. Now when will all the crooks doing business on the Big Dig be indicted??????  - paul needham, derry nh  Kozlowski committed the crime of defrauding his employer, for which he is now duly serving time (in a place where, to quote Howie Carr, everyone will tell you they didn't do it).  However, what he was tried for in the press was the non-crime of wasting money ostentatiously. And he is right that the events leading up to the mortgage failure, and the whim-based use of the bailout money, is criminal.  PS--Editors, the current swoon in TYC stock has nothing to do with Kozlowski and not a whole lot to do with current management. He neither caused the swoon, nor would the $6,000 shower-curtain management style that he mentions have avoided it.  - Spike, Brentwood NH  I see they don't serve humble pie in the Mid-State Correctional prison. Mr. Koslowski's only regret appears to have been being caught. He continues to be the poster child for greedy corporate behavior.  - Lou, Bedford  Dont worry Mr Kozlowski, I have a feeling that you will have lots of company soon enough when the search for the guilty and punishment of the innocent begins.  - paul, hillsboro, nh  When are the people that put themselves into this situation, buying houses they clearly could not afford, going to take responsibility? Why should I have to pay, through tax dollars, to help them pay their mortgage or bail out these mortgage companies? If I owned a business, made lousy business decisions and could not afford to pay my bills, the government would say tough, file for bankruptcy. I would get no help!  I don't understand why more people, the ones paying their bills on time, aren't more angry.  - Jennifer, Baltimore
