Since her Nov. 4 re-election, 1st District Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter hasn't spent a lot of time savoring her victory. But one couldn't blame her if she did because her story remains one of the better political tales in the country  and a tribute to the quaint notion of you never know what will happen when a determined person steps into the electoral arena and ignores the odds. 'We have our work cut out for us,' Shea-Porter said a few days ago from Washington, where she was meeting with aides to discuss her legislative priorities for the 111th Congress. 'We need to do everything we can to protect our economy.' The good news for Shea-Porter is that the Democratic-led Congress, which has a national approval rating even lower than President Bush, will be led by a Democratic President Obama who (1) won in landslide fashion and (2) mostly shares their legislative agenda and (3) has let it be known that the economy will be his No. 1 priority (not that he has much choice.) The not-so-good news is that as Shea-Porter returns to Washington for her second term, everything has fallen into the lap of the Democratic-led Congress and Obama  including a federal budget deficit that might soar to almost a trillion dollars  so they had better enjoy the sweet torture that comes with owning the legislative production architecture.  With Bush in the White House, 'it was such a (legislative) burden,' Shea-Porter told me. 'It's going to be different.' Different, indeed. I talked to Shea-Porter on a now-typical headline day for the American economy. The electronics retail giant Circuit City filed for bankruptcy a week after it tried to save itself with a massive cost-cutting plan. The insurance giant AIG continues to suck in federal bailout money ($140 billion and counting), the unemployment rate is rising fast, and the Big Three automakers are begging for a bailout of their own lest they go belly up. 'This is a really tough economic situation.' she said. Shea-Porter will remain on the House Armed Forces Committee and the House Education and Labor Committee. Among many other things, she's concerned about veterans' health care and military readiness.  She supports a sooner-rather-than-later economic stimulus package focused on infrastructure projects that will create jobs in New Hampshire and across the country.  While she is concerned about the budget deficit, she told me it's no time to be timid about investing in alternative energy development and dealing quickly with health-care reform because of its corrosive impact on American businesses. 'If you think it's expensive now, just wait to see how much it costs if we don't do anything,' she said. If the economy isn't enough of a challenge, it won't get any easier on the foreign policy front. Getting out of Iraq could end up to be cakewalk compared to the situation in Afghanistan, which is reaching a boiling point. Shea-Porter supports sending more troops there and increasing the size of the Army and Marine Corps, but is under no illusions about what lies ahead. 'It's not simply a military question,' she said about Afghanistan. 'We do have enemies, but we need for diplomacy to have a greater role.' Afghanistan will be an even tougher test case for the incoming Obama administration, because 'winning' in a place where foreigners are always defeated will require a thousand diplomatic initiatives that will require allies to do what they simply don't want to do  precisely because Afghanistan is a place that buries foreign dreams.  Shea-Porter voted twice against the $700 billion-plus financial market rescue plan (or bailout depending on your perspective), and as she watches plans change seemingly by the hour, she is not amused. One example is telling  the major banks that were given taxpayer money to lend and rejuvenate the credit markets are hoarding cash or buying other banks. 'It proves we should have been more cautious and taken our time,' she said. Time will be at a premium for the 111th Congress because the clock is ticking and the American people have high expectations that this calvary has come to the rescue after eight years of the Bush administration's laissez-faire approach to governing. Shea-Porter, who credits her hard-working staff for handling the 'very dramatic' rise in constituent requests for help, believes that patience will be needed because so much needs to done. 'It took us a long time to get into this mess, and it's going take awhile to get out,' she said. What she hopes, like Obama, is that the Congress and the country will move beyond the right/left paradigm of doing business in Washington because solutions, not slogans, are needed. That might be too much to ask for especially in a crisis environment when the blame on the Democratic hegemony will be the likely battle of Republicans who aren't offering much else to the solutions equation.  In relative terms, Shea-Porter's rise is no less remarkable than that of Obama who was an Illinois state senator four years ago. She decided to run for Congress after feeling frustrated by the Bush-era wrecking ball  and being booted out of a Bush appearance in Portsmouth in 2005.  She volunteered in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina and witnessed in person an unresponsive government that drove her to run.  In 2006, after winning a Democratic primary in which no one gave her a chance, the Rochester resident was a the longest of long shots when she defeated incumbent Jeb Bradley. It was a shock to the Democratic establishment in Washington (which treated her as certain Election Day road kill), and especially Republicans who considered her a political freak of nature.  Even before she was took office in January 2007, the Republican long knives were out for her in 2008. I was told by many Republicans that there was no way Shea-Porter could win again, but she prevailed handily over Bradley again. It didn't hurt her cause that the Democratic establishment poured in money to help her protect her seat  or that Bradley ran an almost 100 percent negative campaign that hurt him far more than her. Shea-Porter also proved to be one tough customer and had gained voter credibility by working hard.  On the election night to top all election nights (if you're a Democrat), Shea-Porter did poke fun at her Republican critics in her victory speech. 'How did that happen? It must have been a fluke. You didn't mean to elect me to Congress,' she said to her exuberant supporters. 'Well, the voters have spoken, and it turns out you did mean to send me to Congress.' Her second victory was also jolting to Republicans and the long knives are still out. 'I wish a pollster had asked voters to identify which person  Shea-Porter or Bradley  was the incumbent in that race,' said Fergus Cullen, chairman of the N.H. Republican Party. 'Shea-Porter ran against Jeb as though he were still in D.C. and, propped up by $2.5 million in Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee money, it was enough for her to survive. But she'll be targeted again, next time by a fresh face.' Not that she's losing any sleep over it, but it appears that Carol Shea-Porter will be one of those politicians who will continually be underestimated by Republicans who consider her a liberal pinata. She's a far more diverse and complicated legislator than that  for example, she really thinks budget deficits are a blight  and the next fresh face should keep that in mind.  Seacoast Sunday political columnist Michael McCord can be reached at mmccord1@gamil.com.
