If 9/11 transformed George W. Bush's presidency, 9/15 killed John McCain's White House hopes.  By the end of the Republican party convention in the first week of September, Mr. McCain was comfortably placed in the opinion polls, nudging his way into a 1.6-percentage point lead.  He had energized hard-core Republicans with his choice of Sarah Palin, the Alaskan Governor, as his running mate and been saluted as a battle-tested national hero during his party's convention.  But on the morning of Sept. 15 a tight and challenging election race was suddenly overwhelmed by an international financial meltdown.  As the lingering mortgage crisis turned into a credit crunch, forcing the nationalization of mortgage banks Fannie Mae and Freddy Mac, the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the takeover of Merrill Lynch, the world's stock markets panicked and plunged.  At the very moment fear turned to fiasco on Wall Street, Mr. McCain was speaking to an enthusiastic morning rally in Veterans Memorial Arena in Jacksonville, Fla. 'The fundamentals of the economy are sound,' he told the crowd. 'But these are very, very difficult times and I promise you, we will never put America in this position again. 'We will clean up Wall Street. We will reform government.' Within hours, the Democratic party turned Mr. McCain's comments into a political ad for its own presidential candidate, Barack Obama.  The clip of Mr. McCain claiming 'the fundamentals of our economy are strong' was preceded by a series of sombre headlines: 'Lehman Brothers Collapses; Markets in Turmoil; Job Losses at 605,000 for the year; Foreclosures at 9,800 a day ...' As Mr. McCain speaks in the ad, a real-time stock ticker in the corner of the television screen showed the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropping 271 points. 'How can John McCain fix our economy, if he doesn't understand its broken,' an announcer asks, as the ad ends with a picture of Mr. McCain and Mr. Bush smiling and posing for photographers in the White House Rose Garden.  In one single day, as international financial markets went into a tailspin, the entire tenor of the U.S. presidential campaign changed and the economy roared back to take centre-stage.  Mr. Obama benefited big time from the crisis. Within two weeks, he had a six-point lead in public opinion polls, with some polls claiming he had gained up to 10 points on Mr. McCain.  After eight years in the White House, the Republicans were hard pressed to disown responsibility for the market chaos. Mr. Bush's approval ratings were scraping a near all-time low. Only 18% of Americans approved of the way he managed the economy and 90% said the country was heading in the wrong direction.  Mr. McCain desperately tried to distance himself from the Bush administration by casting himself as a reformer. 'We are going to reform the way Wall Street does business and put an end to the greed that has driven our markets into chaos,' he promised. Mr. Obama and the Democrats blamed the Republicans for everything. They warned voters they faced 'the most serious financial crisis since the great Depression' and insisted 'Mr. McCain Votes With Bush 95% of the time.' 'I certainly don't fault Senator McCain for these problems,' Mr. Obama told a crowd in Colorado. 'But I do fault the economic philosophy he subscribes to. It's the same philosophy we've had for the last eight years -- one that says we should give more and more to those with the most and hope that prosperity trickles down to everyone else.' For the next month and a half, debate over the economy dominated the election, spurred on by an US$80-billion bailout of the insurance giant AIG, a US$700-billion bailout of U.S. banks and nearly US$4-trillion in stock losses. 'Different people are influenced by different issues, but certainly the condition of the economy is the central issue now for most voters,' said John Coleman, head of the political science department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 'More than in a typical election, it seems voters are looking ahead rather than looking behind, so the candidate who can convince voters that he is ready to handle these economic challenges effectively, as well as challenges we don't even know about yet, is in the stronger position to win.' As his polling numbers collapsed, Mr. McCain tried to look like a decisive leader. He dramatically suspended his campaign and rushed to Washington to help push through Mr. Bush's US$700-billion bail-out bill.  Only, once he arrived, he found members of his party were in open rebellion and refusing to pass the legislation.   In the end, Mr. McCain failed even to convince the Republican congressmen in his home state of Arizona to support the bail-out. When he failed to return to Washington to help salvage the legislation after the first presidential debate, his intervention smacked more of opportunism than statecraft.   Around the same time, Mr. McCain's selection of Ms. Palin as his running mate began to lose some of its lustre.   Ms. Palin's disastrous interview with CBS anchorwoman Katie Couric -- in which she came off as profoundly uninformed and not even capable of listing the newspapers she reads -- did more for the ratings of the comedy show Saturday Night Live than it did for the Republicans.  In selecting Ms. Palin as his vice-presidential candidate, Mr. McCain all but abandoned the case he had been making with voters that Mr. Obama was too inexperienced and unprepared to be president.  Instead, the Republicans switched to attack mode, pumping out ads that demonized the Democrats, cast aspersions on Mr. Obama's character, accused him of 'paling around with terrorists' and portrayed him as different, dangerous and possibly unpatriotic.  Still, the Republicans' fortunes continued to decline. The polls began to show Mr. Obama leading in every state Al Gore and John Kerry won in the 2000 and 2004 elections, as well as in such Republican strongholds as Florida, Colorado, Virginia, North Carolina, Ohio, and even Indiana, which had not voted Democratic since 1964.  For the briefest moment, after the third presidential debate, Mr. McCain struck a sympathetic chord with voters with his appeals to 'Joe the Plumber,' an Ohio man who had objected to Mr. Obama's plans to raise taxes on businesses and individuals earning more than US$250,000 a year.  He returned to the traditional Republican-Democrat battlefield and attacked Mr. Obama as a 'tax and spend liberal.' In the final days, while being outspent four to one by the cash-rich Democrats, Mr. McCain ran an ad that simply claimed: 'Barack Obama lacks the experience America needs. And it shows. His response to our economic crisis is to spend and tax our economy deeper into recession. The fact is Barack Obama's not ready ... yet.' The final word was a subtle appeal to voters who may like Mr. Obama but have qualms about his thin political resume when the country faces a long, dangerous recession.  National Post  pgoodspeed@nationalpost.com
