Taiwan awaits Chinese tourists with mixed feelings (IANS via Yahoo! India News)  Taipei, July 2 (DPA) Taiwan residents, with excitement, curiosity and a little contempt, are awaiting Chinese tourists who will arrive July 4 after Taiwan lifts its five-decade ban on entry by Chinese citizens.  Quake Revealed Deficiencies of China?s Military (New York Times) [...] Taiwan awaits Chinese tourists with mixed feelings (IANS via Yahoo! India News)  Taipei, July 2 (DPA) Taiwan residents, with excitement, curiosity and a little contempt, are awaiting Chinese tourists who will arrive July 4 after Taiwan lifts its five-decade ban on entry by Chinese citizens.  Quake Revealed Deficiencies of China?s Military (New York Times) China?s deployment of its armed forces to the May earthquake got good marks for public relations, but the effort left some veteran P.L.A.-watchers underwhelmed.  Australia, Japan Bond Risk Rises, Credit-Default Swaps Show (Bloomberg.com) July 2 (Bloomberg) &amp;#8212; The risk that companies in Australia and Japan will default on their bonds increased, credit-default swaps show. Benchmark measures of default risk in the rest of Asia were unchanged.  Australia&amp;#8217;s ANZ to add four outlets in Vietnam (Reuters via Yahoo! Malaysia News) HANOI, July 2 (Reuters) - Australia&amp;#8217;s third-biggest lender, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd , plans to open up four new outlets in Vietnam by the end of 2008 to expand financial services there, the bank said on Wednesday.  Police arrest 9 terror suspects with bombs in western Indonesia (AP via Yahoo! Philippines News) Nine terror suspects linked to one of Southeast Asia&amp;#8217;s most wanted men were arrested Wednesday in western Indonesia with a cache of powerful bombs, a local television station reported.  China Focus: Unprecedented capital inflows test Chinese regulators (People&amp;#8217;s Daily) China has taken a series of increasingly aggressive measures in the past several months to blunt the impact of so-called &amp;#8220;hot money,&amp;#8221; amid the explosive growth of its foreign exchange reserves, which have soared beyond what can be explained &amp;#8230;  Australia willing to develop co-operation with Vietnam (Nhn Dn) The Government of Australia considers Vietnam as one of its important partners in the region and pledges to develop long-term co-operation with the Southeast Asian nation.  East Timor&amp;#8217;s Ramos-Horta says no to U.N. job: report (Reuters.co.uk) JAKARTA (Reuters) - East Timor President Jose Ramos-Horta will not pursue the job of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Australian Associated Press reported on Friday, citing a statement on The Australian website.  Chinese party boss delivers attack on Dalai Lama (AP via Yahoo! News)  China&amp;#8217;s Communist Party boss in Tibet delivered a fresh attack on the Dalai Lama Wednesday, even as envoys of the region&amp;#8217;s exiled leader met with Chinese officials for more talks toward easing tensions following anti-government riots.  Chinese Tourists Head For Red Carpet Welcome In Taiwan (Nasdaq) TAIPEI (AFP)&amp;#8211;Taiwan is set to roll out the red carpet Friday for a landmark visit by Chinese tourists, who will be flying directly from the mainland - something unthinkable until just a few weeks ago.  New electric jeepneys launched to fight Philippine pollution (Channel NewsAsia) MANILA : Meet Southeast Asia&amp;#8217;s first electric powered jeepney - the new &amp;#8220;King of the Road&amp;#8221; that has plying the streets of Manila&amp;#8217;s financial district.  ANZ thinks big in Vietnam (The Australian) Expansion in the nation is one of the bank&amp;#8217;s highest priorities in Asia  Taiwan Dollar Beats Baht, Won as Ma Spurs China Trade (Update1) (Bloomberg.com) July 2 (Bloomberg) &amp;#8212; Taiwan&amp;#8217;s dollar climbed more than any Asian currency this year as improving relations with China bolstered investor confidence in the island&amp;#8217;s economy.  East Timor president says he won&amp;#8217;t take top UN human rights job (The Canadian Press via Yahoo! Canada News) DILI, East Timor - East Timor&amp;#8217;s president says he will not take the top United Nations human rights job because his departure could fuel instability in his young country.  Australia willing to develop cooperation with Vietnam (Vietnam Net) VietNamNet Bridge - The Government of Australia considers Vietnam as one of its important partners in the region and pledges to develop long-term cooperation with the Southeast Asian nation. 
