 LONDON, July 28 (Reuters) - European stocks ended lower on Monday, dragged down by banks that fell on concerns over credit ratings at major U.S. mortgage lenders and by a rise in crude after recent sharp falls, which revived inflation worries.  The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index ended down 0.9 percent at 1,158.86 points, falling for a third session in a row.  ...  UBS fell 5.5 percent, Royal Bank of Scotland dropped 4.1 percent and Barclays lost 5 percent.  &amp;quot;There is a deep seated problem with many of these banks,&amp;quot; said David Buik of Cantor Index in London.  &amp;quot;To call the bottom of the market without the odd little swerve is probably precipitous,&amp;quot; he added. &amp;quot;It&amp;#039;s going to be quite a negative month,&amp;quot; he said of August.  ...  HBOS (HBOS.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) shed 7.3 percent after weekend reports that the bank is due to reveal more asset writedowns when it publishes results on Thursday.  Europe was hit by another wave of bad economic news on Monday, with surveys showing German consumer confidence worse than at any time since recession last struck and yet more house price falls in Spain and Britain.    ...  But the market&amp;#039;s fall was cushioned by buoyant mining shares, helped by gains in metal prices, while energy stocks rose ahead of key quarterly results in the sector expected this week and as oil recovered from a recent sharp drop.  Royal Dutch Shell (RDSa.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), BP (BP.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) and Total (TOTF.PA: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) added 0.4-1.3 percent. Among miners, Antofagasta (ANTO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) rose 7.1 percent, Rio Tinto (RIO.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) added 3 percent and Anglo American (AAL.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) gained 2.9 percent.  Crude oil CLc1 rose towards $124 a barrel, bouncing back from a seven-week low, in what analysts said was technical buying and short covering after a recent selloff.  &amp;quot;The oil price is a lottery,&amp;quot; said Ian Richards, European equity strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland. &amp;quot;We have absolutely no visibility.&amp;quot;  Airlines, which had recently enjoyed a rally as oil prices fell from record highs, were hammered after low-cost carrier Ryanair (RYA.I: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) posted an 85 percent fall in quarterly net earnings and warned it was unlikely to make any profit this year in a battle against recession and oil prices.  Ryanair tumbled 22 percent, while easyJet (EZJ.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) lost 8 percent, British Airways (BAY.L: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) fell 4.5 percent, and Air France-KLM (AIRF.PA: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz) dropped 2.2 percent. EADS (EAD.PA: Quote, Profile, Research, Stock Buzz), the parent of airplane maker Airbus, was down 4.5 percent.  /...  http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idCAL8682698...   
