BMO's $375M purchase of AIG Canadian insurance could herald more deals  Article Tools  Smaller  Larger Text  Story Tools  TORONTO - Canada's big banks are sitting on plump capital cushions, waiting for healthy assets of distressed foreigners to fall into their laps.  In what could herald a series of deals, Bank of Montreal (TSX:BMO) said Tuesday it is paying $375 million for the Canadian life insurance business of American International Group Inc.  The cash transaction comes as AIG, once the world's biggest insurer, restructures following a US$150-billion bailout from the American government after its near-collapse.  Last week, TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., a U.S.-based brokerage owned 40 per cent by Toronto-Dominion Bank (TSX:TD), agreed to buy online operator Thinkorswim Group for US$606 million. It's paying about US$8.70 per share in cash and stock for Thinkorswim shares valued at $16 a year ago.  BMO said the AIG acquisition, bringing 300 employees and 400,000 customers, will add to the bank's earnings within a year, expanding its array of investment, financial planning and insurance products.  The price is just 1.1 times the book value of the business, said Gilles Ouellette, president of BMO's private client group.  'This is an industry that's very attractive, and the major reason is the demographics - aging baby boomers, et cetera,' Ouellette said in an interview.  'AIG is a very good business in Canada,' he added. 'We're going to become an important player in that space.'  Asked how much the business would have cost before AIG's liquidity crisis in September as its credit default swaps on American mortgages collapsed, Ouellette said: 'I don't know what the number is, but it would have been substantially more.'  The bank said the purchase will have a minor impact on its financial solidity, trimming Tier 1 capital by less than 0.15 percentage point.  The key capital ratio stands at 10.4 per cent, far above the regulatory minimum of seven per cent of assets, after a $1-billion share issue last month.  That was part of a spate of capital-boosting moves by the banks, including December common-equity issues of $2.3 billion by the Royal Bank (TSX:RY) and $1.4 billion by Toronto-Dominion Bank (TSX:TD).  
