SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- American International Group Inc. said Tuesday it agreed to sell off a Canadian life-insurance unit, a small step toward the giant insurer's goal of repaying tens of billions of dollars in government loans. The company (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) struck a deal to sell  Life Insurance Co. of Canada, with Toronto-based  Financial Group (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) (CA:: news , chart , profile ) paying roughly $308 million in cash. The unit, based in Toronto, sells products like universal and term life insurance as well as critical illness plans and annuities. The acquisition price is subject to any change in net worth between Sept. 30, 2008, and closing on the deal scheduled for early next June, New York-based  said.  Life of Canada serve 400,000 customers and has 300 employees, according to Bill Downe, president and CEO of  Financial. 'This acquisition is a perfect extension of our existing wealth-management offering and our goal to become the one-stop location for all our clients' financial and investment needs,' Downe said in a statement. The deal's expected to begin contributing to  Financial's earnings within a year, the company said. The U.S. government lent  $85 billion in September to prevent the insurer from collapsing under the weight of collateral demands on derivatives unit  Financial Products. The bailout was revised twice, and now taxpayers own 80% of the company and it owes the government up to $60 billion. 's trying to sell many of its businesses to raise cash to repay the government. Gerry Pasciucco, a former Morgan Stanley banker hired to wind down  Financial Products, told The Wall Street Journal this week that any further steep market deterioration could make his efforts more difficult and apply greater pressure on the global insurer. 's shares gained 2.6% to $1.58 during midday action Tuesday. Alistair Barr is a reporter for MarketWatch in San Francisco.
