Phalguna Jandhyala M. Somasekhar Hyderabad, Jan. 16 Will the crisis-ridden Satyam Computer Services be able to renew premium on health insurance to thousands of its employees, before January 21?   This is a question agitating both the employees and the insurance firms concerned. As per the information available, the Satyam health insurance is with Iffco-Tokio General Insurance Company and the TPA (Third Party Administrator) is TTK Health Care Pvt. Ltd. The outstanding premium due is over Rs 30 crore.  While Iffco-Tokio manages the employee group health insurance, New India Assurance Company Ltd and Tata AIG General Insurance and ICICI Lombard General Insurance take care of the bigger Directors and Officers (D&amp;O) and Errors and Omissions (E&amp;O) policies. An official from TTK Health Care TPA said that the average claim size of Satyam has been between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000. Hospitals, when contacted on the issue of whether they would honour the claim of a Satyam employee, said that once the TPA forwards the claims, they would.   Mr S. Narayanan, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Iffco-Tokio, confirmed that Satyam is their client for the group health insurance. Since it is an individual client we would not like to disclose sensitive and personal information such as the due date and the renewal amount. But if the company fails to pay the premium amount due before the due date, then the policy would lapse, just as in the case of an individual insurance policy, he told Business Line.  In response to an e-mail, a spokesperson from ICICI Lombard confirmed that Satyam Computer Services is its client. The D&amp;O policy protects the personal fortunes of individual directors and officers, in respect of personal liabilities arising out of their wrongful acts such as breach of duty, breach of trust, neglect, error, misstatement or misleading statement.  More Stories on : General Insurance   Human Resources   Health    Article E-Mail :: Comment :: Syndication ::  
