Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. (NYSE: BRO) announces that the Board of Directors today elected Sam R. Boone, Jr. and Colin E. Lowe as Regional Executive Vice Presidents. Mr. Boone will be responsible for the Company's Service Division and Public Entity operations in Lake Mary, Florida; Florham Park, New Jersey; Kokomo, Indiana; Ephrata, Washington; and Lombard, Illinois. Mr. Boone will report to Jim W. Henderson, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. Mr. Lowe will be responsible for the Company's retail operations in Ft. Lauderdale, Miami Lakes and West Palm Beach Florida; Glassboro, Blackwood and Mount Laurel, New Jersey; and Garden City, New York. Mr. Lowe will report to Thomas E. Riley, Regional President of Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. Mr. Henderson commented, 'The election of these two fine individuals as Regional Executive Vice Presidents is a reflection of our ongoing focus on strengthening our leadership team, which is critically important to growing our Company and achieving our long-term goals. The addition of Sam and Colin to our senior leadership team gives us two more distinctive and distinguished regional leaders who will increase our growth potential and core operating strength. Both Sam and Colin have extensive experience with Brown &amp; Brown and its subsidiaries and exemplify our culture.' Mr. Boone joined Brown &amp; Brown in 1987, moving to the United Self Insured Services ('USIS') office in 1990 and assuming responsibility for the general management of USIS operations in 1992. Mr. Boone holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Maryland   Mr. Lowe joined Brown &amp; Brown in 1995 as a sales manager in the Ft. Lauderdale branch and has served as the Profit Center Leader of the Ft. Lauderdale office of Brown &amp; Brown of Florida, Inc. since 2001. Mr. Lowe has 31 years in the insurance industry and is a graduate of the University of Miami. Brown &amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products and services, as well as risk management, third-party administration, managed health care, and Medicare set-aside services and programs. Providing service to business, public entity, individual, trade and professional association clients nationwide, the Company is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the United States' seventh largest independent insurance intermediary. The Company's Web address is www.bbinsurance.com.   This press release may contain certain statements relating to future results which are forward-looking statements. These statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the Company's current belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the Company's control. It is possible that the Company's actual results, financial condition and achievements may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results, financial condition and achievements contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results and condition, as well as its other achievements, are contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements made herein are made only as of the date of this release, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company hereafter becomes aware. 
