The Canadian staff of American International Group Inc. yesterday managed to escape the death clutches of their failed U.S. parent in a deal that will see them join BMO Financial Group.  The beleaguered insurance giant agreed in the early hours of yesterday morning to sell its Canadian unit to BMO in an all-cash transaction valued at $375-million.  The acquisition will allow Canada's fourth-largest bank to expand its insurance and wealth-management business as it seeks to capitalize on demographic trends.  John Aiken, an analyst at Dundee Securities, said the deal would 'benefit BMO by diversifying its revenues, gaining access to additional customers and add to earnings.' Once the world's biggest insurer by assets, New York-based AIG is being forced to sell dozens of divisions, including a jet-leasing company and other insurance operations from the U. S. to Japan, to repay US$60-billion in U. S. federal government loans.  The deal agreed to yesterday is a sign the insurer is quickening the pace of its disposals and will likely be followed by more sales of overseas assets in the coming weeks, according to people close to the auction process.  The deal valued AIG Life of Canada at 1.06 times its book value, which is much more than distressed U. S. insurers and about the same valuation multiple as Industrial Alliance, the closest comparison in the Canadian industry. 'This was an opportunity for us to become a bigger part of a large industry for a very modest price,' said an executive at BMO.  The executive said the acquisition would add 300 staff to BMO's existing investment and insurance sales force of 1,400 advisors, whereas an acquisition of the AIG unit by a fully fledged insurance company may have led to heavy layoffs.  Peter McCarthy, the head of AIG Canada, said staff were relieved that the troubles of the U. S. parent would not mean the demise of the business they had 'worked so hard to build.' The deal will also give BMO the ability to generate its own insurance policies and should allow the bank to increase the profit margins of its wealth management business.  The executive said the long-term success of the deal did not hinge on any changes to regulations to allow Canadian banks to sell insurance products direct from bank branches.  BMO is also looking for similar 'little jewels' in the U. S. insurance and wealth-management industry, said the executive.
