I know that i have been focused on eliminating my debt this year. My single resolution was to not owe on any credit cards. But the more research that i have done on personal finance has made me aware that debt isn&amp;#8217;t entirely bad. Take a look at this chart.  You see that i have no [...] I know that i have been focused on eliminating my debt this year. My single resolution was to not owe on any credit cards. But the more research that i have done on personal finance has made me aware that debt isn&amp;#8217;t entirely bad. Take a look at this chart.  You see that i have no charges on my American Express, WaMu, and one of my Bank of America cards(the business card). That&amp;#8217;s good! That is the goal. I have $5,000 sitting on the Chase card. Need to get rid of that right? Well, not so urgently. Since November that balance (it was twice that) has carried a 0% interest rate. As long as i can pay it off before interest accumulates why fret about a balance? Regardless, i have been plugging away at that card - but did focus most on those with interest accumulating. I also have about $2,500 on my Bank of America card. That&amp;#8217;s actually my Alaska Airlines card that gives me a mile for every dollar charged. I had the card paid off a few months ago. But Cena convinced me to resume using it. For everything. Get the miles and then pay it off every month. They are expenses that i would have anyway. That i would have paid with my debit card. So now i&amp;#8217;m able to keep money in my checking account longer. And my checking account has a small interest amount paid based on my balance. It is no investment but it is a nice change to have interest increasing my account value as opposed to decreasing it. For instance; Last week i paid Petersburg Motors for replacing and installing my windshield and back window. Just over $1,300. I was about to pay with my debit card. I have the money may as well pay it. But i changed my mind at the last moment and put it on the card that earns me miles. I need to remember that having some debt isn&amp;#8217;t bad &amp;#8212; i just need to make sure that debt is not out of control. ShareThis    ...
