 Hello,   I emailed you as regards your post i saw on (mmtalent).I was really thrilled when i saw those wonderful shoots of yours,I quite appreciate your looks and would like to work with you on a small contract if you don't mind. I work with a newly open clothing store in NY Named DAZZLING IN STYLES . we need models to model for the  promotion sales just to help publish them and to boost there sales and help them pave there way up the clothing industry meeting up with world fashion business today.Shot will be taking and pictures will be used to advertise their products.Get back to me know if you are interested in the Job offer and let me know your charging plan for 2 hours just for a day shoot.The shot will be done at a location closer to you.I await your to hear from you as soon as possible.The shot will be held as soon as we both agree on when it should be held and the pictures will be used for the promotion sales.The Store will be responsible for the provision for your clothings,make-up and hairstyle that will be use for the shoot.?The location of the shoot, will be somewhere close to where you are located to avoid any traveling inconveniences on your part.As soon as we both agree,the photographer will get in touch with you to agree on the location, date and time of the shoots and he will becoming over to meet you up so that the shooting can be done in good time.Let me know you're ok with $300 for 2 hours of your service and fund will be sent to you immediately on confirmation of your payment information as clearly outlined below this e-mail. After payment has been received, the photoshoot will be taken and sent to the store. There will be a pre-arranged photographer,hairstylist and a make up artist that will becoming over to you for the shoots. They will be contacting you for proper arrangement of time and location after payments has been made. Guess the arrangementis understood. In order for payment to be made to you, provide me with the following details:Name in full.........Residential address in full...........City...........State...........Zip-code............Phone number...(cell and home).....Age.............Charges...$300(2 hours)Statistics for Attires....Statistics for shoes.....Any previous Modeling Experience.....?I await to hear from you.?Smith Stacy.?????????????????? *LOVE *PEACE *UNITY AND RESPECT*So I say:Just out of curiousity, does the clothing store have a website up so that I can look at some of the designs?They say:no our website is underconstructionI say:Also, I really don't think is necessary to pay me in advance, when you could just pay me when you get here to do the shoot, I prefer cash payment, it's so much easier. :)  Plus, I don't have a bank account, so it would just be a pain to have to deal with. They say:if you dont have a bank account you can use your father or relative bank account to cash the money out,and if any of you friend or relative have a wesfago account or bank of america we can transfer your payment to you in the account to you can cash it out eacyly if you have the account get back to me with the details belowaccont number.................rooting number..................name of the account...............bank phone number...................bank address.................................your phone number...........................I say:I don't feel comfortable giving out anyone else's bank account information, especially over the internet. I wouldn't want scammers to get to it. Oh, and while I was searching for your site online, I happened upon a page that told me about a scam involving Dazzling In Styles. You are a fucking scammer, never contact me again you piece of shit. Hhahahahahaha!!!!!! For all you new models, always check credentials.
