            As summer approaches and the temperature rises, so the balance transfer credit card market is also beginning to hot up.  Most people turn to balance transfer credit cards after they have racked up debts following Christmas or the summer holiday period, so providers have decided to inject some life into the market with new launches that will certainly catch bargain hunters' attention.  There are now 40 credit cards offering 0% balance transfers for periods of 12 months or longer, according to price comparison website moneysupermarket.com, but one recent addition to the market has pushed the previous limit up to 17 months.  Capital One have released a balance transfer card this month that will enter into most best-but tables. Customers can benefit from 0% balance transfers until October 1, 2009, a total of almost 17 months, and 0% on purchases until October 1, 2008, a total of six months. It has a 3% transfer handling fee and a 15.9% APR.  These beats the longest 0% balance transfer deal currently on the market, Virgin Money's 15-month 0% deal.  Capital One has also further strengthened its position at the top of the balance transfer market with the further launch of a 15-month deal.  This is in addition to Barclays, which has also launched a new balance transfer card onto the market this month: it has a 1.9% rate on balance transfers over 17 months, with a 2.5% handling fee. It also has 0% on purchases for three months and a 14.9% typical APR.  The only caveat on each of these offers is to watch out for the difference between the transfer and purchase periods. Some people forget they will have to pay back the entire balance transferred before they pay back their purchases, which attract a high rate of interest until they are paid off. This negates the whole purpose of an attractive balance transfer deal.  Nationwide Building Society and Saga are currently the only card providers that operate under a positive order of payments, where the most expensive debt gets paid off first.  Steve Willey, head of credit cards at moneysupermarket.com, said: 'Virgin, Capital One and Barclaycard have long been regarded as the fore-runners in the balance transfer market and again they are leading the pack.  'All of this is great news for consumers looking for a new credit card to transfer a balance. However, the recent tightening of lending criteria by lenders means all but those with the most gleaming credit profiles are accepted.'  The balance transfer market was criticised earlier this year by price comparison website MoneyExpert.com for its lack of capped transfer deals. The majority of caps limit the cost of a transfer to approximately 50, but anyone looking to transfer money without one would have to pay an average transfer fee of 2.8%.  As the average balance transfer is now 2,666, the typical cost of a balance transfer is 74.65, said the website.  This Moneysupermarket News article was gleaned from metro and posted on 24/07/08                  
