 *Warning! I will do my best to contain my anger and frustration while writing this post. This post is not meant to offend anyone....but, I am stinkin' angry and frustrated with this entire issue. I hope that this post even makes sense.....I should have never read this article. I should have just passed over it - knowing that if I read it - it would make me so angry and frustrated with our government. I understand that the economy stinks right now. Things are expensive. Food costs are through the roof. Do not even get me started on the price of gas! Here is my question.....where is the line between "grace" and "bailing people out"? I am a huge fan of grace. I've prayed for, I've asked for it, I've received it, I've given it....it's a beautiful thing. I know that there are genuine needs - people are losing their homes, their jobs....even their families - because of the stress of the economy. But, having the government continue to bail people out - instead of requiring responsbility and integrity...especially in corporate america....is not the answer.Now, here is where I get frustrated....the government comes in and decides to give all this money to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac so that people can refinance their homes at an interest rate they can afford. I get it. But, why isn't the government cracking down on the credit card companies that are allowed to raise interest rates on consumer credit cards - just because they feel like it. Did it ever occur to the government that maybe if they would force these credit card companies to stop increasing interest rates and fees on consumers who have never been late on their accounts.....people would be able to continue to afford to pay for their homes. Bank of America has earned themselves a reputation for being notorious for raising rates "just because they can". In fact, there was an article just last month about Bank of America doing this very thing!Let me give you an example....last year I was going through the mail....opening one of the credit card statments we had received. I noticed that the interest rate had jumped to 28.99%! What the heck? How on earth did the interest jump from 8.99% to 28.99%? This account had been closed for over a year....and we have not used any credit cards for almost 2 years. We had never been late on this card (or any other payment, for that matter). Of course, I immediately call the company. The reason for raising the rates? We were not paying off the balance soon enough. Huh? Okay, that's brilliant. I began to explain to them that we were paying off our credit card balances (lowest balance first) and that we were actually paying "more than the minimum" on this card. Their response? It was not enough. They were not satisfied. Hmmmm. Okay, brilliant credit card company....how the heck are we going to pay off the balance any sooner if you are charging us an extra $200.00 in INTEREST ALONE....I mean, if we were in a place to pay an extra $200.00 on this account - don't you think we would already be doing this?HR 5244, also known as The Credit Card Holder's Bill of Rights Act of 2008, has been introduced into the House. This is the type of change that needs to be made by our government. This is what our elected officials need to be addressing.....then, they might not have to approve millions and millions of dollars to agencies to help Americans keep their homes! But, dang it.....I totally forgot....Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac spent, um, millions on lobbying the past decade. In fact, "their executives have consistently led the mortgage-banking sector in campaign giving to members of Congress, contributing a combined $16.2 million since 1997." (quote from USA Today).I better stop here......there are some other thoughts I have...but, they are probably best left unsaid! :) Oh, Lord....come quickly....before my credit card company raises my interest rates AGAIN! 
