 Somebody please save Anthony Pollina from himself.  Recently Pollina suggested two things that could be done to help Vermont.  Both involved credit cards.  One was the establishment of a Vermont "affinity card" to be issued by a Vermont bank which would act like a frequent flier mile card or a cash back card but with a twist.  The cash back would not go to the card holder but would instead go to the State of Vermont to support agriculture or renewable energy projects.  The second idea was that Vermont merchants which accept credit cards should band together and negotiate to lower the fees banks charge to merchants for processing credit cards. Okay where should we start here?  First it might be good to point Pollina and his advisers to the Wikipedia page on credit card fees particularly the largest fee which is the so called interchange fee.  This is the fee (typically 1.25% to 1.75% of the transaction's value) which is paid by the merchant to the bank that issues the credit card.  The way affinity cards work is that the issuing bank gives up some of the interchange fee and pays that fee in miles or in cash back to the card holder.  Without a robust interchange fee there is no cash back.  The credit card banks operate on thin margins and make it up in volume....millions and millions of transactions each day.  So on one hand Pollina wants to persuade a bank to issue a Vermont branded card, he wants to persuade consumers to carry and use the card, and he wants to persuade the bank to give up a good portion of the interchange fee and give it to the state of Vermont.Meanwhile he wants the merchants to band together to negotiate for reduced fees.  Hmmm...if the merchants are successful at lowering the processing fees (the biggest of which is the interchange fee) do you think a bank will want to also give up some of the already reduced interchange fee as a rebate to the State of Vermont for each purchase a card holder makes?  Or if a bank is willing to give up a portion of its interchange fee to the State of Vermont do you think it will take kindly to also reducing the remaining fee to the merchants?  Pollina obviously has no concept of how the credit card industry works or maybe he is just a typical politician and he wants his cake and he wants to eat it to.  He wants fees to be reduced and then he wants the remaining fee to go to the State of Vermont.  Sure that makes sense.  Here is another problem with what he wants. He wants a Vermont bank to issue the credit card.  The last time a Vermont bank actually issued a credit card was back in the stone age circa 1990 or so.  Sure I know you can go to your local bank and pick up an application and fill it out and if you are qualified you will receive a piece of plastic that says Factory Point Bank, or Chittenden Bank etc., on the front.  But read the fine print.  The card account is likely owned by one of the big five credit card banks, Bank of America, Chase, Citigroup, Capital One and HBSC.  The Vermont bank is merely an agent. Anthony please...no more bright ideas here...just gracefully withdraw from this race and leave the big ideas to the remaining two.  Oh wait a minute.  Have they actually come up with any ideas?http://www.amazingcounters.com/code.php?id=1677282
