        The Dream: Banks Bankrupt    The following is not to scare you but only to warn....11 Cheshvan, (Tuesday, October 23, 2007) Shamayim told me to quickly begin withdrawing the donation money that was collected for Devorah HaNevia, a'h, from the bank because very soon, all banks will be bankrupt.I was shown what will happen when the banks will go bankrupt; there is going to be such a mess... No one will be able to withdraw from any bank even a nickel... All previously written checks that were not yet cashed will not be honored... People will get charged for returned checks, although it's not their fault... There will be so much havoc, confusion, and anger....People were feeling very frustrated and confused, crying, 'I never saw it coming...". Everyone became so money-crazed.... People were banging on banks' doors to be let in... The workers in the bank were also petrified because they also lost all their money and the only reason they came to 'work' was not to work, but to try to save their money. Everything seemed so chaotic...FC Communications with Ben Goldin; THIS IS IT FC with Binyamin, Jerusalem; Tuesday, August 21, 7 Elul, 2007"The banks will be bankrupt (fall)... Banks will fall, God have mercy.""...When the banks fall, money falls. If you are doing business, put in the bank only the money that you will need for specific business."Secret Kabbalists of Israel Speak Their Message ...In one day all money will be rendered worthless. During this time many will suffer heart attacks, for the many people who own (and will lose) a great many possessions will be broken-hearted.... Tzedaka matzil m'mavet (The giving of charity saves from death)! The giving of charity will be very important. This is how one purchases a place in the world to come after the destruction...The Reality:The Bank Panic of July 2008: Run, dont walk to get your money out!NEW YORK (BNW)  With the stock market in freefall, the economy in the dumps, and inflation at an all time high, no wonder the banks across this country are beginning to fail. If you have one penny in any bank in America, you better run, dont walk to your bank and withdraw it out before its too late.  No bank has enough reserves on hand to cope with more than the fraction of deposits being taken out at once.Labels: Dreams That Materialized     
