Dear Bob,Bank of America allowed someone to take out a credit card in my name signing themselves on as an authorized user.  I knew nothing of the card.  Bank of America filed a lawsuit against me, and then withdrew it when they knew they would lose the case.  They sold the file to three different debt collectors, which also withdrew when sent the court documents.Bob, I disputed this with the credit bureaus, but they returned with an answer also adding another $2,000 to the debt.  They have defamed my name and assassinated my character in the credit world.  My attorney told me to send them a letter and get aggressive with them.  My question is - what department would I send this letter to at Bank of America?  I know to send it where it is recorded on my credit report, but what department?  God Bless You and Your's, Bob!!!These are tough situations.  First and foremost, this is an identity theft case.   The proper sequence of events needs to be followed as a means for protection when identity theft occurs.  In an identity theft case, you are a guilty victim.  You are a victim and you are guilty until proven innocent, which is up to you.Then you need to watch your credit report like a hawk.  The minute something shows up, it is important to put a detailed case together and dispute the item.  If any type of legal situation occurs because of the identity theft, dont just assume it will go away because you know you are an identity theft victim.  Get an attorney immediately and fight it. As this listener describes in this painful story, the events can get quickly out of control.  Unfortunately in his case, it has gotten way out of control and might be tough to crawl out.  I always encourage anyone to fight for their rights.  At the same time, you have to be realistic as to the time, stress, and energy you spend.  Fighting the mistakes of a company such as Bank of America might end up being fruitless.   Copyright  2008 Prudent Money and Bob Brooks. All rights reserved.       
