 All cultures have their old phrases, colloquiums that once had meaning but no longer do.People once talked about getting down to brass tacks. This, they say, was based on the brass measurement tacks that cloth salespeople had on the counter to measure cloth. While most salespeople could stretch the cloth out in their arm and get a rough measurement, you could (if you didnt trust the salesperson), ask them to get it down to the brass tacks.As times change, so do the phrases. No one really says that a stitch in time saves nine, because most people dont stitch their own worn clothes.No one says early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise anymore; probably because everyone knows how good late-night television is.There once was a phrase that said Its like money in the bank. This was meant to convey the idea of stability, of sureness. You had a bet on a racehorse. You were sure that it was like money in the bank.You think you did well on a test you took: it was like money in the bank.This phrase became popular because in the view of society, bankers were very conservative people. They took their responsibilities seriously, and treated peoples money with great care, down to the fraction of a cent.In the old days, keeping your money in a bank waswell, like money in a bank.If you were a conservative person who didnt trust the stock market or shady dealings, you could put your money in the bank, and sleep soundly knowing that your money was as safe as the coin of the realm (another phrase that lost meaning).But that was then and this is now. As time and situations change, so too do the phrases.Now, the phrase money in the bank holds little value.Bankers no longer do due diligence. Bankers no longer know all of their depositors and debtors. Instead, banks are factories, with loans being made with cookie cutters; with depositors being treated like cattle.Bankers seem to act more like high stakes gamblers than pillars of the community. They gamble with our money; and then, when they lose that money, they throw their hands up and say well dont blame me,But you see we do blame you. When you hire a person, you expect a certain minimum performance. When you hire an accountant or an auto repair facility, you are not paying for them to try, you are paying experts for their actions in their chosen profession.So a banker is expected to be trustworthy. A banker is suppose to value your money like they value the virginity of their daughters. But thats not always the case, I guess.Because the foolishness was so widespread, we now have several banks which are getting clobbered. It doesnt even matter if the particular bank is solvent or not; the knowledge of what the bad players have done have harmed even the innocent.Consider these bank stocks, and how they are suffering.Comerica (CMA)  down 67% from their 52-week highWashington Mutual (WM) -  down 91% from their 52-week highNational City (NCC)  down 90% from their 52-week highKeyCorp (KEY)  down 78%Bank of America (BAC)  down 63%And these are just the banks that I know of.There is a confidence of trust. The market is being run by fear of the unknown.It is not the best of times.
