Barack Obama even needs a teleprompter to get mad. On St. Patricks Day, the president spoke a bit of Gaelic, dyed the White House fountains green and talked about his distant relatives in the tiny Irish town of Moneygall, aptly named since money and gall are the two topics now consuming him.  But Obama is still having trouble summoning a suitable flash of Irish temper at the gall of the corrupt money magicians who continue to make our greenbacks disappear into their bottomless well. Hes got to lop off some heads.  As he watches the fury of ordinary Americans bubble up at those who continue to plunder our economy, he should keep in mind one of my dads favorite Gaelic sayings: Never bolt the door with a boiled carrot. His lofty team of economic rivals is looking more like a team of small forwards and shooting guards. At the White House on Monday, the president read reporters some tough talk from the teleprompter about the chuckleheads at AIG, accusing them of recklessness and greed. But it was his own boiled carrots who acted shocked at bonuses that they should have known were coming, and should have dismantled before handing AIG another $30 billion two weeks ago. It is bad enough that the billions of dollars are being laundered through AIG to the likes of bailout double-dippers Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and Bank of America, not to mention foreign banks.  Obama belatedly tried to stop the tumbrels that began rolling toward the Potomac after Larry Summers went on Sunday talk shows to assert that there was nothing the administration could do about the blood-sucking insurance monstrositys venal payout. Summers, who inspires lusty dreams of AIG tormentor Eliot Spitzer, asserted that the government cannot just abrogate contracts with financial vampires. It seems as though it would be pretty easy to upend a bonus contract that must read something like: If you ruin the world economy, well pay you an extra million. As Andrew Cuomo pointed out on Tuesday, 11 of the AIG executives who received retention bonuses of $1 million or more were not even retained. Theyre no longer working at AIG. Bonuses were paid to 52 people who have left the company.  At first, on the nutty bonuses, Team Obama thought it could get away with the same absurd argument used to justify the nearly $8 billion in unnecessary earmarks it allowed Congress to jam into this years overdue spending bill: It was written last year; were just signing off on it; well do better in the future.  What Obama should have said to the blood-sucking bums at AIG, many of them foreigners who were working at the louche London unit, was quite simple: We stopped the checks. Theyre immoral. If you want Americans hard-earned cash as a reward for burning up their jobs, homes and savings, sue me. He also should have saved a dollar a year and fired Ed Liddy. There must have been ways to avoid rewarding the perpetrators of our financial crisis, and Liddy seems to have seriously explored none of them.  Barney Frank told reporters: I think the time has come to exercise our ownership rights ... and then say as owner, No, Im not paying you the bonus. You didnt perform.  Cuomo, who seems far more intent on transparency than Obama, and Tim Geithner, the Treasury secretary who reluctantly signed off on the bonuses, issued subpoenas for the names of the bonus babies. Cuomo started an investigation of whether the payments were fraudulent because the company knew it did not have the funds to cover them.  The president needs to brush back the arrogant, greedy creeps who kneecapped capitalism, rather than cosseting Wall Street for fear of looking like an avatar of socialism.  Geithner and Liddy believe its best to stabilize the company and keep the same people who invented the risky financial tactics so they can unwind their own rotten spool. Isnt that like giving bonuses to the arsonists who started a fire because they alone know what kind of accelerants they used? Their mythology starts with the false premise that these are irreplaceable geniuses, says Cuomo. Boiling mad that AIG made more than 73 millionaires in the unit that felled the firm, Cuomo called the companys counsel on Monday to demand that she stop payment on the checks. Cuomo was informed that the money had already been direct-deposited in the accounts of the derivative scoundrels.   Dowd, based in Washington, D.C., is a Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for The New York Times. 
