Out to block $165M in bonuses for troubled firm's execs  Size A A A  Share with:  + What are these?  WASHINGTON -- Joining a wave of public anger, U.S. President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for 'recklessness and greed' yesterday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165 million in bonuses after taking billions in federal bailout money.  'How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?' Obama asked. 'This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values.'  Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans' bailout blues.  The bonuses could contribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help -- and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda that is dominating the start of his presidency. Thus, the president and his top aides were working hard to distance themselves from the insurer's conduct, to contain possible political damage and to try to bolster public confidence in his administration's handling of the broader economic rescue effort.  David Axelrod, senior adviser to Obama, said that there was no question that the bonuses and the public's anger over them could run many things off the rail.  'People are angry because they've seen exhibit after exhibit of irresponsibility and people walking away with money in their pockets,' he said. 'It's undermined the discussion that we have to have.'  Obama had scheduled a speech yesterday to announce new help for recession-pounded small businesses. But first, he said, he had a few words to say about AIG. He lost his voice at one point and ad-libbed, 'Excuse me, I'm choked up with anger here.' It was just a light aside, but he meant the sternness of his remarks to come through.  'This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed,' Obama declared.  He said he had directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses.'  Later, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration would modify the terms of a pending $30-billion bailout instalment for AIG to at least recoup the $165 million. That wouldn't rescind the bonuses, just require AIG to account for them differently.  On a separate track, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said he would issue subpoenas for information on the bonuses. He said his office would investigate whether the employees were involved in AIG's near-collapse and whether the $165 million in bonuses were fraudulent.  Size A A A  
