'Outrageous' is the word of the day in Washington, used by President Barack Obama and various officials to describe insurance giant-turned-ward of the state AIG.  The focus of their ire: $165m in bonuses the firm is paying out to managers in the London-based financial products division, the same people who gambled away $40bn in credit default swaps based on bad mortgages before the government took over the company at the cost of $170bn in taxpayer money.  Obama has ordered Treasury secretary Timothy Geithner to look for any legal means available to stop the bonuses from being paid. But can the government actually block them?  At this point, probably not.   AIG is contractually obligated to pay the bonuses. After expressing perfunctory outrage, Larry Summers, director of Obama's national economic council, stated: '' Of course, the federal government did just that with the auto industry, insisting Big Three management break contractual obligations to autoworkers as a condition for the bailout. But that was before they received taxpayer money. Should AIG do the same today, its CEO warns those managers could successfully sue the company.   Georgetown law professor William Bratton sees 'two established routes for breaking the contracts. The first is bankruptcy, in which compensation contracts get rewritten and any new retention bonuses are subject to statutory control. The second is establishment of past accounting fraud, which could trigger clawbacks. Neither gets one from here to there quickly and cheaply. The corporate law duty of loyalty does not hold out a robust basis for challenge, as it looks to comparables and has little to say about dealings with actors who are lower down in the chain of command'  ie the London whiz kids responsible for the mess.  Doesn't a colossal screw up of this scale give AIG some basis for denying bonus payments? In this case, no. American University law professor Andrew Pike explains there are two types of bonuses. Performance bonuses are paid on commission to employees as a reward for selling, say, lots of AIG insurance policies. Then there are retention bonuses, the type for which AIG is on the hook. A company pays to retain a desired employee. It is not principally based on performance, but rather willingness to stay. Contractually, AIG is obligated to pay them no matter how much money they lost the company.  This isn't to say the government can't do anything. It could put stricter conditions on the next $30bn in bailout money going to AIG. White House spokesman Robert Gibbs pledged Monday to do just that, but those conditions would only require AIG to account for the bonuses differently, not pay them back.  Once they are paid, the bonuses will be much harder to claw back. Congress is already looking into tax avenues  the challenge being to craft legislation that is broadly worded enough to be plausible. On Monday, Michigan congressman Gary Peters introduced a bill that would tax at 60% all bonuses over $10,000 given by any company in which the government holds an equity stake of 79% or more (the Fed holds 80% of AIG stock).  The other tax avenue available is to block deductions. One proposal is to , and thus render them nondeductible from AIG's federal taxes. However, Bratton notes 'a denial deductibility does not amount to much of a deterrence at a company that is reporting losses.' One would think the government, now in the business of owning an insurance company, could fire the traders in question, as congressman Barney Frank has proposed, or perhaps just anyone who accepts the bonuses. As majority shareholder, the Fed does not have direct power to hire and fire, though it does have significant sway over company management.  But the government also has a strong motivation to keep on the whiz kids: It needs someone to 'unwind' all of the credit default swaps that got AIG into such trouble. The financial instruments the London office created are extremely complicated and custom made, with each deal negotiated separately. And AIG claims the only people qualified to unwind the mess are the same gang who created it. At this point though, it may be hard to convince taxpayers that this is true.  The willingness of the traders to accept the bonuses at all is perhaps the most amazing. Alice Rivlin, former vice chair of the Federal Reserve, is perplexed: 'They're giving out bonuses to the very people who got them in trouble. It's just incredible. What were they thinking? You would think they would voluntarily say 'We messed up, so we're not taking the bonus.'' Senator : 'Follow the Japanese example and come before the American people and take that deep bow and say, 'I am sorry,' and then either do one of two things: resign or go commit suicide. And in the case of the Japanese, they usually commit suicide.'
