The $170 billion bailout of AIG  This supposed paragon of higher finance was just plain playing Russian roulette with his shareholders' money, destroying nearly $200 billion in equity and putting an onerous cost on Uncle Sam and taxpayers.  As we now understand, much of the $170 billion was not to bail out AIG The $165 million in bonuses were contractual liabilities to the foolish employees who lost the money that required the bailout by Uncle Sam. No wonder the outrage toward AIG has raised the hackles of Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke, Obama economic advisor Larry Summers, the president himself and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. You can see why $165 million in bonuses slipped between the chairs: It was peanuts compared to other losses.  In the pre-2005 era of 'Tiny' Hank, a special derivatives trading operation, AIG Financial Products, was established at his behest in a holding company, AIG, that had no capital resources but did have the goodwill of the AIG insurance operations' highly valued AAA credit rating.  The deal Hank struck was to give the AIG Financial Products executives 30% of the revenues from this operation, an enormous motivation to write as much business as they possibly could. Moreover, its holding company had no regular oversight by AIG's board and was not regulated by any government body. The compensation arrangements were then, and are still, a recipe for disaster. As we know, disaster struck.  It was reckless to place an unregulated holding company on top of profitable insurance operating companies across the globe. It was also reckless to guarantee $500 billion of derivatives contracts to insure the capital of highly leveraged European banks and U.S. investment banks. It was foolish to back securities secured by mortgages that no one could possibly value.  AIG Financial Products had no reserves against loss, and it did not hedge $1 of the $500 billion in contracts. This means that the largest insurance company was betting it would have little or no losses on these hugely leveraged, speculative arrangements. This is more than cowboy capitalism. This is a case study of how to lose $200 billion.  In the latest bailout chapter, Croesus has learned that Goldman Sachs got $4.8 billion that AIG owed it for a ridiculously risky stock-lending operation, another numbskull bit of tomfoolery ordered by Greenberg. Goldman also received $2.5 billion for credit default swaps gone bad.  An astute observer of Rick Sanchez's CNN show raised the right nitty-gritty question: Why should a bunch of executives responsible for the largest loss in American corporate history be awarded $3 million bonuses? Just because a contract was signed a decade ago assuring them of the money no matter the impact on the company? The public has a right to a proper answer, and that's the thrust of Sanchez's reaching out.  What taxpayers may not know is that Greenberg was ousted by his board of directors in 2005 after AIG's accountants refused to approve the financial statements and that the Justice Department still regards him as an unindicted co-conspirator of another scandal in the insurance industry. Or that he still has never heard from the Securities and Exchange Commission about whether he is a target of their investigation into this other scandal that resulted in one AIG executive being sentenced to prison.   Some tougher observers in the financial community are outraged. They believe that AIG should have been split into a good bank/bad bank setup. The holding company should have been sunk, and the losers--all very big boys, actually the bullies of the bourses--should have taken their lickings. 'If Deutsche or Socit Gnrale or Goldman or Barclays made a bad decision, a lousy trade, why should the American taxpayer make it good?' they clamor. Why should the losers everywhere, in other nations, have their losses paid for by American taxpayers? Shareholders might want to write their pusillanimous representatives in Congress about that.   At a minimum, Congress should hold hearings with both Geithner and Bernanke testifying. President Bush's Treasury Secretary, Henry Paulson, should be remanded to the witness chair. Greenberg should be put under the harsh spotlight of public scrutiny too, instead of being allowed to shoot his mouth off on CNBC or Bloomberg, where his inquisitors are invariably obsequious.  Maybe his rotten arrogance will be displayed for all to see. He's one of the most ballyhooed 'best and brightest' of finance to have let us all down. If we have to pay for it, we should at least be given the truth, the whole truth, so help me God.  Every mutual fund, endowment and family office drank Greenberg's Kool-Aid, trusted whatever he told them. What is not yet known is how the company was able to report steady 15% annual profit gains year after year or all the details of why AIG's accountants would not approve the company's financial results for 2005. In the end, Greenberg's legacy will be shabby.
