WASHINGTON  Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for recklessness and greed Monday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165 million in bonuses after taking federal bailout money.   How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat? Obama asked.   This isnt just a matter of dollars and cents. Its about our fundamental values.   Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group (NYSE: AIG), the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans bailout blues.   The bonuses could contribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda.   Thus, the president and his top aides were working hard to distance themselves from the insurers conduct, to contain possible political damage and to try to bolster public confidence in his administrations handling of the economic rescue.   Obama had scheduled a speech Monday to announce new help for recession-pounded small businesses. But first, he said, he had a few words to say about AIG. He lost his voice at one point and ad-libbed, Excuse me, Im choked up with anger here.   It was just a light aside, but he meant the sternness of his remarks to come through.   This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed, Obama declared.   He said he had directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayer whole.   One reason that the AIG bonus giveaway is such a compelling story  and a politically troubling one for Obama if not neutralized  is that it offers a simple story line that appears to sum up ways in which the federal bailouts have gone awry.   This is just the kind of issue that galvanizes public outrage, said Paul Light, professor of public service at New York University. Its always the tangible stuff, the things that ordinary Americans can relate to. They dont know the first thing about credit default swaps. But they do know about bonuses. And its just the sort of thing that will undermine any future bailout activity.   Bailout steps for AIG totalling more than $170 billion since September have effectively left the federal government with an 80 per cent stake in the insurance giant.   Obamas comments came on the same day a new poll showed slippage in his approval rating.   The poll by the Pew Research Center showed it dropped from 64 per cent in February to 59 per cent this month amid divisions of opinions over his economic proposals and what the pollsters said was a growing perception that the president is listening more to his partys liberals than to its moderates.   Still, those surveyed generally gave the president favourable marks for doing as much as he can to try to fix the economy, and few blame him for making the economy worse.   Andrew Kohut, Pews director, said in an interview that people are most angry with banks and companies but theres also pushback against Washington generally. And, of course, the buck stops with Barack Obama these days.   Obamas sharp words continued an insistent administration drumbeat over the past few days designed to pressure the bonus recipients to forgo them. Thus far, AIG officials have refused to rescind the payments.   In a letter to Geithner over the weekend, the government-appointed chief executive of AIG, Edward Liddy, said the bonuses were legally binding obligations and the firms hands are tied.   Still, pressure was building on that issue  and on the government to rework its AIG bailout to make sure taxpayers are repaid as much as possible.   So far, the company has been honouring its contracts with U.S. and foreign banks, paying out more than $90 billion in economic bailout funds to big banks and others. 
