Executives at AIG's towering New York headquarters have hunkered behind tight security as new revelations about their multi-million dollar bonuses stir public fury.  Employees entering and leaving the 1930s skyscraper just off Wall Street on Tuesday refused even brief comment about the scandal consuming the taxpayer-rescued insurance giant.  Guards wearing AIG badges blocked the lobby and ordered an AFP reporter to leave the pavement outside. 'That's private property. It's owned by AIG,' one said.The company, kept afloat by a $US180 billion ($A273 billion) government bailout, is on the defensive over $US160 million ($A242 million) in bonuses for employees at the subsidiary most responsible for September's near collapse.  On Tuesday, New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo revealed that some executives pocketed huge, so-called 'retention bonuses' even though they had quit.  Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid warned AIG to rethink the 'appalling' payments or face punitive taxes.  The controversy has made AIG the country's most reviled business and a millstone around the neck of President Barack Obama as he tries to retain public support for his economic recovery package.'A.I.G. IS A P.I.G' screamed the main headline in the New York Daily News. The widely read USA Today daily had a front page picture of a tomato splattered across the AIG logo.  Wall Street executives often argue that bonuses are a good way to attract and retain top quality staff, but few Americans understand why such payments should be made in a company surviving thanks only to taxpayers.  Though employees at AIG headquarters had apparently been ordered to remain silent, workers in neighbouring offices were quick to vent their fury.'I think it's a downright insult to the American people. It's laughing in our face. It's a disgrace,' said Elizabeth Papadatos, 26, a legal assistant.'I'm a taxpayer. I don't need to work my backside off to fill their pockets. I can barely make ends meet.'Anton Profit, an lawyer, 27, said he had no problem with bonuses being paid to good employees - just not to fat cats accused of ruining their companies.'Bonuses are for those who really deserve it. If you've been sitting back and not doing real work then the money should go instead to the people who do real things, right down through the ranks to the mail room,' Profit said.Charles Crum, a lawyer, said the situation was 'crazy.'However he cautioned against the government rushing headlong to satisfy public longing for greedy executives to be punished.'If these bonuses were in contracts from before, then the US can't just go in and say that a contract's not a contract. The government and the public are two different things and hopefully the government has a cooler head.'A portly man in an expensive suit and overcoat offered a rare dissenting opinion, blurting, 'it's been blown out of proportion,' before hurrying toward the company's headquarters. He refused to identify himself.  Bernie, a 62-year-old beggar working the street outside AIG, said one thing was sure: bonuses weren't trickling down to him.'Hopefully the people with the bonuses would help me out,' the gangly, bearded man said. 'You'd think people with a million dollars could spare me one. But that's not the way it is - it's usually the other way.' 
