WASHINGTON - Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for 'recklessness and greed' Monday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165million in bonuses after taking billions in federal bailout money. 'How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?' Obama asked. 'This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values.' Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans' bailout blues.   The bonuses could contribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help - and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda that is dominating the start of his presidency.   David Axelrod, senior adviser to Obama, said that there was no question that the bonuses and the public's anger over them could run many things off the rail. 'People are angry because they've seen exhibit after exhibit of irresponsibility and people walking away with money in their pockets,' he said. Axelrod called the bonuses 'spectacularly tone-deaf.' Obama's speech Monday was to announce new help for small businesses. But first, he said, he had a few words to say about AIG. He lost his voice at one point and ad-libbed, 'Excuse me, I'm choked up with anger here.' It was just a light aside, but he meant the sternness of his remarks to come through. 'This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed,' Obama declared. He said he had directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayer whole.' Later, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration would modify the terms of a pending $30 billion bailout installment for AIG to at least recoup the $165 million the bonuses represent. That wouldn't rescind the bonuses, just require AIG to account for them differently. He said the administration hoped the tough talk would result in voluntary action on the part of AIG and its bonus recipients, although that remains an open question. 'All we can do is administer this thing going forward,' he said. Obama's comments came on the same day a new poll showed slippage in his approval rating. The poll by the Pew Research Center showed it dropped from 64 percent in February to 59 percent.   Still, those surveyed generally gave the president favorable marks for doing as much as he can to try to fix the economy, and few blame him for making the economy worse.
