Outrage on Capitol Hill over bonuses granted to executives of AIGs financial products division could cut into what is already weak political support for bailing out General Motors and Chrysler.  GM CEO Rick Wagoner told reporters Tuesday it would have been better for the automaker if the AIG controversy hadnt happened, even as he stressed the reasons why his company should be seen in a different light. I think it would be better for all of us if this werent playing out this way, Wagoner said at a breakfast sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor. He said some lawmakers will not be able to distinguish news about AIGs bailout from requests made by GM and Chrysler for help.  Wagoner said he would draw a dramatic distinction between AIG and GM, which he said has a greater role in the economy of Main Street.  Without directly criticizing the insurance giant, Wagoner said GM needs much less support than AIG.  AIG has received about $170 billion from the government so far, while GM and Chrysler combined received a $17.4 billion package from the Bush administration in December.  He also said every interest group related to the companys future was making sacrifices, from unions to dealers and suppliers to executives who have cut their salaries.   While AIG has come under criticism for funneling $165 million in bonuses to executives last week, Wagoner said most salaried employees at GM have taken pay cuts.   Everybodys got skin in the game, he said. So my pitch is were all in this, and we understand its a tough ask, and were doing everything we can to make it as fair for everybody as we can.  GM has asked for another $16.4 billion to help it restructure and survive the worst auto market in decades, though it said it would not need a $2 billion payment it initially hoped to win before the end of March.   Wagoner noted that while GM has taken less than AIG, it has a significantly greater footprint in Main Street versus Wall Street.  He also said GM hoped to use government money to make investments in the future that would help the company, but also further U.S. employment and technology. 
