This week we learned that AIG  It's also been revealed that AIG Steve Forbes recently interviewed former AIG executive Eli Broad, who has argued that AIG would never have met this end had its legendary chief executive, Maurice 'Hank' Greenberg, been left at the helm. Steve has also discussed AIG with Barry Ritholtz of FusionIQ, Tom James of Raymond James and Brian Rogers of T. Rowe Price. Relevant transcripts of those interviews are below, or click here to watch '.'   Eli Broad (Founder, The Broad Foundation)   Steve Forbes: What went wrong with AIG?  Eli Broad: Well, the first thing that went wrong, in my opinion, was having Hank Greenberg, Howie Smith and Ed Matthews forced to leave. They built a great company. And then the management they left behind was not exactly stellar. And while that was happening, the financial services unit, or whatever it's called in London, kept selling more and more and more credit default swaps and other things.  And they never took into account what would happen if AIG was downgraded. Because those swaps require that if you were downgraded or you marked these bonds down to market, you had to come up with a huge amount of cash collateral. Having said all of that, AIG was a great company. It could've remained a great company. I think it's been badly handled by the Fed and Treasury.  Steve Forbes: So, this was starting with Hank Greenberg and unintended consequence of what Mr. Spitzer did to them and to others?  Eli Broad: That company and a few others, as you know. And then when the Fed came in there, and they didn't want to do anything, it started, of course, with Lehman. And Lehman had somewhat of a domino effect across the board, including AIG.  Then the next mistake was AIG. They didn't want to do anything for AIG. So they came up with something very punitive, bond rate, and they lent money. I think it totaled about 14%. That isn't how you save a company. That's how you drive it out of business.  And then they believed, 'Well, we'll get our money back by selling off pieces.' And the question is, 'In this market, who are you going to sell it to?' So, they've gone through all of this. And it's very sad. If they had treated AIG the way they treated Citi   Tom James (CEO, Raymond James)   Steve Forbes: How do we get more transparency in areas like credit default swaps where it's so opaque now that one trade can have enormous implications?  Tom James: Well, I really think we need a clearing house. You know, those recommendations started to be made in the '90s. We really should have done it then, before this industry blossomed or exploded, I guess is the better description of essentially insuring financial assets, which credit default swaps allow you to do. I don't think anybody fully understood what risk AIG was taking when they entered in as a counterparty in a lot of these transactions. So I think it's very important that we have good footnotes describing how much is out in the corporate statements, but that the clearing house actually starts marking things to market a little bit, which causes you to again restrict the amount you issue.   Brian Rogers (CIO, T. Rowe Price)   Steve Forbes: Now, as a money manager, you've gotten a reputation for knowing how to look at financial statements. Looking back, looking at the financial statements of an AIG or a Lehman or something, could anyone rational have looked at that and said, there's a potential bankruptcy? Or is there something else at work here that really just blew some things up that you couldn't have seen by just looking at a financial statement.  Brian Rogers: Steve, in the interest of full disclosure, someone who owned AIG--  Steve Forbes: Most of the world owns AIG. [Laughter]  Brian Rogers: I would like to say that I looked and I couldn't find it. You know, I would say that for many years investors, including yours truly, always said something like the following: 'You know, AIG really is a black box.' It's hard to tell where their earnings come from but you have to have such a great record. We will make a leap of faith and invest in the company--  Steve Forbes: Which worked for 40 years.  Brian Rogers: Which worked for 40 years, and it just didn't work in 2008. I think some investors correctly sniffed out the asset quality problems in terms some of the Wall Street firms.   Barry Ritholtz (CEO, FusionIQ)   Steve Forbes: Well, what's going to happen to the life insurance companies? They've been hammered in the stock market.  Barry Ritholtz: You know, I think they're being painted with too broad a brush based on AIG. We keep learning that AIG, this AAA [rated], very closely regulated insurance company, also had under its roof this unregulated, unsupervised shadow hedge fund that was doing all this structured-finance stuff. You know, you look at the insurance side. There's literally centuries of actuarial data that you can look at and say, 'Well, we know if we insure this many people's life insurance,' or you could look at any historical phenomena, even hurricanes and things like that.  We know approximately the range that there is. But once you start making bets, once you start speculating as to which bank is going to go belly-up when, well, you're no longer doing insurance. You're just gambling. You're just speculating. And they thought they were smart enough to know how to handle the risks and manage it.   But it was clear based on the amount of money we as taxpayers have poured in, they had no idea what they were doing. What is it now, $175 billion and counting? AIG is potentially a half-trillion-dollar bailout before everything is said and done. And that's just a horrifying number.  
