 WASHINGTON -- Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for 'recklessness and greed' Monday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165 million in bonuses after taking billions in federal bailout money. A man passes an AIG office building Monday, March 16, 2009 in New York. American International Group Inc. used more than $90 billion in federal aid to pay out foreign and domestic banks, some of whom had received their own multibillion-dollar US government bailouts. [Agencies] 'How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?' Obama asked. 'This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values.' Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans' bailout blues. Obama had scheduled a speech Monday to announce new help for recession-pounded small businesses. But first, he said, he had a few words to say about AIG. He lost his voice at one point and ad-libbed, 'Excuse me, I'm choked up with anger here.' It was just a light aside, but he meant the sternness of his remarks to come through. 'This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed,' Obama declared. He said he had directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayer whole.' Later, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration would modify the terms of a pending $30 billion bailout installment for AIG to at least recoup the $165 million the bonuses represent. That wouldn't rescind the bonuses, just require AIG to account for them differently.  Gibbs said the tough talk from Obama and other administration officials was aimed in part at pressuring bonus recipients to turn them down. Anyone accepting the money should 'think long and hard' about whether keeping it was appropriate 'given the performance of the company,' he said. On a separate track, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Monday he would issue subpoenas for information on the bonuses after AIG missed his deadline for providing details. Cuomo said his office would investigate whether the employees were involved in AIG's near-collapse and whether the $165 million in bonus payments were fraudulent under state law.
