WASHINGTON  With outrage swirling over $165 million in bonuses paid to employees of government-owned insurance giant AIG, Michigan lawmakers joined colleagues in calling for several steps against the company, noting the stark differences from the sacrifices demanded by union workers under the auto industry's rescues.  U.S. Rep. John Dingell, D-Dearborn, proposed a 95% tax on bonuses paid to workers at any company receiving money from the federal bailout money for the financial industry. Such a bill could actually impact Dingell's household, since his wife Deborah Dingell works for General Motors Corp., whose $13.4 billion loan was drawn from that fund.  Dingell compared AIG's payments, which the company said were required by contracts negotiated before its collapse and $170 billion government bailout, to the contract changes UAW workers were required to make as part of the loans to General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC.  'If we can demand that decent people who wear hard hats and blue jeans must renegotiate their contracts, I see no reason those bad actors wearing neck ties and $1,000 suits should be protected from helping their country in this time of need,' Dingell said.  Michigan Sen. Debbie Stabenow joined 43 other senators signing a letter to AIG Chief Executive Edward Liddy, warning that Congress will pass a steep tax to get the bonuses back if the executives refused to forego them.  While families across our state continue to struggle and as our auto industry continues to make great sacrifices, the fact that AIG is handing out over $165 million in bonuses is unacceptable, Stabenow said in a statement.  U.S. Rep. Thaddeus McCotter, R-Livonia, said Tuesday he would cosponsor a bill to force Treasury Secretary Tim Geitner to provide all information regarding AIGs use of federal bailout money to Congress.  'AIG has insulted and defied the American people and their representative government,' he said. 'The time has come to cut off all taxpayer support for AIG; break it up; and end its bleeding of American taxpayers.'  Contact JUSTIN HYDE at 202-906-8204 or jhyde@freepress.com.  
