Executives at the troubled US insurance giant AIG are under mounting pressure to hand back the hefty bonuses they have just received.  One Senator has demanded they apologise, and suggests they should then either resign or kill themselves.  New York State Attorney-General Andrew Cuomo has revealed that some executives pocketed huge, so-called 'retention bonuses' even though they had quit.  AIG has paid out more than $250 million in bonuses despite relying on government bailout money to stay in business.  Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid warned AIG to rethink the 'appalling' payments or face punitive taxes.  Democratic Senator Charles Schumer says the payments are unacceptable. 'This is disgraceful, this is unacceptable and it is an offence to millions of hardworking Americans whose tax dollars are the only reason AIG continues to exist.' Republican Senator Charles Grassley has gone as far as to suggest the executives should consider killing themselves. 'The first thing that would make me feel a little bit better towards them is if they follow the Japanese example and come before the American people and take that deep bow, and say 'I'm sorry', and then either do one of two things: resign or go commit suicide,' Senator Grassley said.  Yesterday US President Barack Obama said he was determined to stop AIG from paying the bonuses.  He described the payment of the bonuses as an outrage, and told his treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, to take legal action to stop them. 'This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed,' he said, in a rare flash of public anger. 'Under these circumstances, it's hard to understand how derivative traders at AIG warranted any bonuses, much less $US165 million in extra pay,' Mr Obama said. The US Congress is looking at ways of imposing punitive taxes on the bonuses.  US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she hoped legislators could move by next week on legislation to recover the funds.  Several House committees have been working on legislation 'that we could bring this week and next on how we could get the taxpayer's money back,' she said. 'They've all been working on something, we want them to bring some of it to closure.' Ms Pelosi said that the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee was looking into one idea of taxing the bonuses while the Judiciary Committee was looking at alternatives to recoup the money 'because there's some question as to whether a contract can be addressed in this way'.
