WASHINGTON - An outraged Congress threatened Tuesday to impose new taxes to recoup at least some of the $165 million in bonuses that insurance giant AIG awarded to executives and traders after getting billions in federal bailout money.  'The people who got those bonuses wont be able to keep all that money,' Majority Leader Harry Reid declared on the Senate floor.  Senate Finance Committee chairman Max Baucus suggested taxing away the bonuses. 'What is the highest excise tax we can impose that will stand up in court?' Baucus asked. 'Lets find out what it is.'  In the House, Reps. Steve Israel (D-N.Y.) and Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) introduced a bill that would tax at 100 per cent bonuses above $100,000 paid by companies that have received federal bailout money.  'It boggles my mind how these executives can be so unaware of what the American people are going through,' said Ryan. He called his proposal 'a wakeup call that the days of arrogance and greed on Wall Street are coming to an end. We will use any means necessary.'  The Internal Revenue Service currently withholds 25 per cent from bonuses less than $1 million and 35 per cent for bonuses more than $1 million.  As outrage over the American International Group (NYSE: AIG) bonuses rose across the political spectrum, the Obama administration said it was trying to put strict limits on how future government bailout dollars could be used. But sharp questions have been raised about what the administration knew about the bonuses - and when.  Sen. Richard Shelby, the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, chastised the administration, saying Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner should have blocked the payouts.  'I dont know if he should resign over this,' the Alabama senator said. 'He works for the president of the United States. But I can tell you, this is just another example of where he seems to be out of the loop. Treasury should have let the American people know about this.'  AIG also was raked over the coals at a banking committee hearing on regulating the insurance industry.  'One way or another, were going to try to figure out how to get these resources back,' said Christopher Dodd (D-Conn.) the panels chairman.  'This is ridiculous,' exclaimed Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). He said AIG executives 'need to understand that the only reason they even have a job is because of the taxpayers.'  AIG CEO Edward Liddy is to testify Thursday before a House subcommittee.  On Monday, President Barack Obama lambasted the insurance giant for 'recklessness and greed' and pledged to try to block payment of the bonuses. Obama said he had directed Geithner to determine whether there was any way to retrieve or stop the bonus money.  'If they have any common sense at all ... they ought to give it back,' House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) said Tuesday. 'Have they no shame? Have they no sense of responsibility to the taxpayers of America?'  
