Filed Under: White House, Congress, Economy, The First 100 Days  The Washington Post says the AIG bonuses put Obama's political standing on the line. 'President Obama's apparent inability to block executive bonuses at insurance giant AIG has dealt a sharp blow to his young administration and is threatening to derail both public and congressional support for his ambitious political agenda.'  Given Sen. Chuck Grassleys call for AIG executives to commit suicide, these kinds of quotes will only get more attention. It's a mob effect, one senior executive said. It's putting people's lives in danger.  More: It's going to blow up, said a senior Financial Products manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the company. I have a horrible, horrible, horrible feeling that this is going to end badly.  'Joining a chorus of outrage, President Obama vowed yesterday to use 'leverage' from more than $170 billion in federal aid and 'every single legal avenue' to try to block bonuses being paid to executives at insurance giant American International Group,' the Boston Globe writes. 'But the White House did not immediately explain how it might stop the $165 million in bonuses, or why it didn't restrict the payments before giving AIG the latest round of taxpayer support.'  The New York Daily News' front page is stark black with bold white letters: 'A.I.G. is a pig.'  The New York Times makes this point: 'By seeking to link repayment of the bonus money to the coming $30 billion in assistance, the administration seemed to leave open the possibility that the company would effectively be repaying taxpayers with taxpayer money. A Treasury official disputed that taxpayers would be repaying themselves, but could not specify how else the company would give back the money.'  This following paragraph, in fact, gets to the crux of the confusion over whether the government has infused taxpayer money or has simply guaranteed AIG's bad bets: 'The tangle over bonuses highlighted a broader confusion over who actually controls the insurance conglomerate. The Treasury and the Federal Reserve have both pumped vast amounts of money into the company, but the two agencies have never made it clear which of them is in charge.'  The Wall Street Journal gets to the nut of the problem for the government: 'The confusion that seemed to mark the White House's AIG response Monday illustrates the bind that Mr. Obama finds himself in. He needs to convince Americans he shares their mounting fury over the hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars being pumped into companies like AIG. At the same time, he needs the executives and employees of those companies to help the government untangle the current financial mess.'  USA Todaymakes a similar point. 'The criticism reflected not just the rising anger over the bonuses, but also the question the flap poses for the president and Congress: how to continue with plans to rescue the economy  which could include billions more dollars in taxpayer money to shore up banks and other interests  in the face of growing public disgust with corporate America.'  Msnbc.com's Schoenblames Congress for AIG. 'That's where the legislation was enacted that laid the groundwork for AIG's collapse, its subsequent multibillion-dollar bailout and even the millions of dollars in bonuses being paid to AIG executives that have so outraged Obama, members of Congress and taxpayers.  EMAIL THIS  Someone help me out here because I guess my memory isn't quite what it used to be...  Who was the President back in September 2008 when the Government first stepped in to bail out AIG?  Pete - Albany, NY (Sent Tuesday, March 17, 2009 9:26 AM)  Obama's so-called outrage over AIG bonuses is fake and meant to be a distraction. $165 million in bonuses is one-tenth of one percent of the $170 billion of bailout. What I would like to know is where is the outrage of $90 billion, or more than 50% of it, going to Europe??????? Why are American taxpayers funding European operations????  B.S., Virginia (Sent Tuesday, March 17, 2009 9:28 AM)  Isn't that funny, something both Democrats and the repugnant ones can agree on - that AIG is a bunch of criminals. I say nationalize AIG and throw the management bums out and put them in prison for their criminal looting of AIG. I hope that Congress or the President makes the moochers give back that $165 million in bonuses.  Let's not forget that it was the bushwhacker and Herman Munster Paulson who protected AIG and Wall Street from having any strings attached to the bailout money they doled out to the criminals at AIG and the banks.  Why does it take Jon Stewart to show us just how crooked Wall Street is with short selling and all the other gimmicks that a ferw abuse to rip the majority of us off? He's become a savior to those of us who are sick and tired of the Wall Street shenanigans that have screwed up our economy.  It's time for the needs of the many to outweigh the greed of the few!  Eric, Salinas, CA (Sent Tuesday, March 17, 2009 9:29 AM)  Yes; yes; yes;!! Let them go ahead and jump from the window of the 31st floor!  Jennie from Fort Worth, Texas(Sent Tuesday, March 17, 2009 9:29 AM)  While we're at it, can Obama ask his buddy Franklin Raines to give back the billions in bonuses from Frannie/Freddie??????????  Give it all back (Sent Tuesday, March 17, 2009 9:30 AM)  SEND A COMMENT  PLEASE READ: All comments must be approved before appearing in the thread; time and space constraints prevent all comments from appearing. We will only approve comments that are directly related to the blog, use appropriate language and are not attacking the comments of others.  Message (please, no HTML tags. Web addresses will be hyperlinked):  Your name, city and state (John Doe, Seattle, Wash.):  Your e-mail address (jdoe@msnbc.com):  Your website (it's okay if you don't have one):  Remember me? (We'll keep it private) Remember me?  Trackbacks are links to weblogs that reference this post. Like comments, trackbacks do not appear until approved by us. The trackback URL for this post is: http://firstread.msnbc.msn.com/trackback.aspx?PostID=1839055  
