NEW YORK/ WASHINGTON: Eleven executives at AIG quit the troubled insurance giant despite being paid bonuses of at least a million dollars each to stay, New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Tuesday.  'Eleven of the individuals who received 'retention' bonuses of one million dollars or more are no longer working at AIG, including one who received 4.6 million dollars,' Cuomo said wrote in a letter to Barney Frank, chairman of the finance committee in the US House of Representatives.  The US administration and lawmakers scrambled on Tuesday for ways to recoup employee bonuses awarded by rescued insurer AIG as President Barack Obama grappled to douse a political firestorm.  The controversy engulfing bailed-out American International Group threatened to turn nasty amid reports of death threats against AIG workers, as US networks and newspapers were inundated with expressions of rage from the public.  'Americans are angry, I am angry: 4.5 million Americans have lost their jobs, and these people are getting bonuses, multi-million-dollar bonuses,' said Senate Finance Committee chairman Max Baucus, a Democrat.  Despite Obama's vow Monday to 'pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses,' the administration has struggled to explain how it can do that without tearing up iron-clad contracts awarded last year to the AIG recipients.  Baucus said he was looking at possible tax mechanisms to reclaim 165 million dollars in bonuses paid largely to the same London-based traders who brought ruin to AIG and helped to ignite the global financial crisis.  Republicans turned up the political heat on Obama, who must tread a fine line between riding the public fury against Wall Street excess without eroding congressional support for forthcoming measures to prop up tottering banks.  John Boehner, the minority leader in the House of Representatives, noted that White House spokesman Robert Gibbs had two weeks ago expressed confidence that taxpayer money given to AIG was being well spent.  'Well clearly, they didn't know what they were talking about,' he said.  Also Read   Caterpillar lays off 2,454 workers in 3 states   AIG outrage dominates US insurance hearing   AIG executives might consider suicide: Top US Senator  'I think this is outrageous, and I think the American people are rightly outraged that their tax money is going to pay bonuses to the very people that got this company in trouble.'  Gibbs said Monday that Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is looking at recouping the bonus money out of his latest 30-billion-dollar infusion for AIG, which has taken the insurer's total bailout to 180 billion.  But the bonuses themselves have already been paid out, according to New York state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo, who Monday issued subpoenas after AIG bosses ignored an afternoon deadline to divulge details of the payments.  Lawmakers from both sides are warning Obama that the row will only make it harder for the administration to hustle new rescue measures through Congress as Geithner readies a plan to clean out US banks' bad debts.  
