Senator Max Baucus says he has a way to get the $165 million dollars of bonuses paid to insurance giant AIG executives back. He's launching an effort to tax them out of existence.  'I am really mad. Montanans are mad. I don't know what these people were thinking. Of course that's probably the problem...I don't think they were thinking. All of the people who have thrown in their work trying to make ends meet and these people take these big bonuses for companies that have caused a lot of problems that we're facing in our country are totally wrong. And I'm going to do everything I can to make sure these bonuses are recouped and it doesn't happen again.' Baucus said today.  And he wasn't alone. Montana's junior Senator Jon Tester found a national audience on MSNBC this afternoon. He blasted the insurance giant's bonus contracts. The Senator was critical of the company's explanation that the bonuses were mandated by employment contracts.  'I think that we need to impose upon these people in what ever way we can to get this money back. Even though it is only 1-tenth of 1-percent of the total money that AIG got, it's still a lot of money. It's a lot of money to me and it's a lot of money to Montanans.' Tester said on MSNBC today.  And Montana's Congressman, Denny Rehberg says the bonuses represent 165 million reasons why he has opposed the AIG bailout from the beginning.  'Montanans calling my office are just as angry about AIG rewarding bad decisions with huge bonuses as they were when Congress was rewarding bad decisions with huge bailouts.' Rehberg said.  Rehberg has voted against all of the bailout packages in both the Bush and Obama administrations.  Meanwhile, the outrage over those bonuses is turning into accusations against President Obama and his controversial treasury secretary, Tim Geithner. Republicans say Geithner stumbled on the issue of what AIG called incentives when the insurance company got $30 billion more in Federal aid two weeks ago. Top Obama aides are defending Secretary Geithner. And AIG says under the law it has to pay the bonuses; its traders have contracts that guarantee them.  Back to Montana News  
