Taxpayers poised to take on &#8216;toxic&#8217; debts as Government throws another 200bn lifeline to High Street banks By Simon Watkins and Simon Walters Last updated at 2:37 PM on 18th January 2009    Comments (145)  Add to My Stories     Taxpayers will be left exposed to 200billion in potential losses under the biggest Government bailout yet for Britains banks  due to be announced tomorrow. Chancellor Alistair Darling will underwrite toxic assets built up by the banks during the credit boom which are now seen as high risk. If companies and individuals default on these debts, the taxpayer will be left to foot the bill.  Gamble: Gordon Brown (left) and Chancellor Alastair Darling are risking taxpayer&#8217;s money to bailout the banks The latest lifeline for the City  put to bank bosses late yesterday  came as Gordon Brown vented his fury with the banks for lending vast sums to foreign investors who are now unable to pay the money back.    More&#8230;  JOHN REDWOOD: The problem is our banks are bigger than we are MAIL ON SUNDAY COMMENT: We must force the money men to lend again Brown&#8217;s fury at Royal Bank of Scotland&#8217;s 2.5bn loan to Russian oligarch Taxpayers fork out 60,000 for Minister&#8217;s dinner party &#8230; to discuss the credit crunch Billions are earmarked for second banking bail-out     Treasury officials checking the books of the Royal Bank of Scotland, now controlled by the Government, were shocked to discover that 2.5billion had been loaned to Russian oligarch Leonid Blavatnik in his attempt to build a massive business empire. The RBS has had to write off the entire debt because one of Mr Blavatniks foreign companies faces going bust  with British taxpayers left to pay the price. Mr Brown believes some banks have deliberately concealed the scale of their bad assets. He said: We have to be clear that where we have got clearly bad assets, I expect them to be dealt with. Details of the rescue package will not include the widely expected bad bank, which would buy up toxic loans from banks. Other elements of the bailout would include an indefinite extension of the Special Liquidity Scheme (SLS), which allows banks to swap their loans for Government bonds, guaranteeing mortgages in an effort to kick-start the housing market, and possible protection for the finance arms of leading car-makers who provide loans to customers to buy their cars. Ministers believe this is more effective than providing a multi-billion-pound bailout for individual car firms. Bank bosses have been asked to give the measures their consideration, but Ministers are so angry with the banks that it is thought they will have little choice but to rubber-stamp them.  The Royal Bank of Scotland lost 2.5billion that had been loaned to Russian oligarch Leonid Blavatnik The Treasury had also prepared plans for a bad bank to use Government money to buy the toxic assets from the banks, freeing them to increase lending to companies and homebuyers. However, while the measure has not been ruled out for ever, the difficulties in valuing the assets to be bought and what assets could qualify mean the scheme has been put on hold. A senior banking source involved in the new rescue package said: You should look more to the American solutions seen last week. The comment was a reference to a huge bailout of US banks, including a massive asset guarantee plan. The US authorities injected 14billion into Bank of America on Friday. Crucially, it also agreed to guarantee 81billion of toxic assets on its books  exactly the kind of step anticipated in the UK. The rescue comes after UK banks were gripped by a second round of panic selling. Shares slumped on Friday, with 6.6billion wiped from the value of top banks. Barclays was forced to issue an emergency statement to reassure investors after its shares fell 25 per cent in the last hour of trading. Last year, as leading banks were forced to issue new shares to raise cash, the Treasury acted as underwriter. When existing investors shunned the shares, the Treasury was left to buy them, injecting 37billion into leading banks and ending up as a leading shareholder in the UK banking industry.  Cheers: Russian oligarch Leonid Blavatnik could cost British taxpayers 2.5bn As a result of that scheme, the Government now owns 58 per cent of Royal Bank of Scotland and almost 44 per cent of Lloyds Banking Group  the new giant created by Lloyds TSBs takeover of HBOS. Raising these stakes has not been ruled out as another way of injecting cash into the banks. Nationalisation is available as a last option  although, for now, is regarded as unlikely. Mr Browns latest initiative follows Business Secretary Lord Mandelsons announcement last week of a 20billion scheme to guarantee loans made by banks to small and medium-sized companies. That was intended to reassure banks they would not face the full impact if a small company went bust, and so encourage them to lend more cash to such businesses. The plan to guarantee existing toxic assets held by the banks is based on a similar theory, but with hundreds of billions at stake, it dwarfs the small business guarantee scheme. The new bailout will need approval from the European Union as it is likely to be classed as state aid to industry. The bad bank idea was put on the back burner after Treasury officials concluded that deciding which assets could qualify to be bought by the bad bank could take months. It was also hampered by opposition from some banks. A crucial element would be deciding the price at which the toxic assets were to be bought. Too high a price would amount to an over-generous bailout for the bank; too low and the deal could end up doing banks more harm than good because it would force them to put a market value on these bad loans. Once a market value is established, accounting rules would require the value to be applied across the board, even to those toxic assets that had not been sold to the Government-run bad bank. That could have forced banks to recognise billions more in losses in their accounts. John Varley, chief executive of Barclays, said last week he believed a bad bank was not the best solution to the crisis.     TODAY&#8217;S POLL  Do you trust your bank?   Yes   No VOTE       POLL RESULTS   Do you trust your bank?  Yes22% No78%  Thank you for voting Close All polls Click to view yesterday&#8217;s poll results   Fears that Barclays could face a massive write-off in value of complex financial assets known as Collateralised Debt Obligations were said by some traders to have contributed to its fall in value on Friday. The bank issued a statement saying it knew of no reason for the fall in its shares. It added that its profits for the past year  due to be published next month  would in fact be higher than the 5.3billion forecast by City analysts. Others blamed the Barclays shares rout on the lifting of a ban on short-selling financial stocks which had been in place since October. The method of gambling on share price falls was widely blamed for a series of slumps in banks share prices last summer and autumn, most notably at HBOS. The City watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, had banned short-selling of financial company shares. But that ban expired at midnight on Thursday and some believe the slide in banks shares on Friday was a sign the short-sellers were back with a vengeance. Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable lashed out at the FSA for lifting the ban. If short-selling results in a wave of panic such that banks go down, then the practical consequence is that taxpayers will have to assume responsibility, he said. Vicky Redwood from Capital Economics said: Were going to face a staggering amount of bank losses over the next two or three years as the full impact of the recession is felt and we see household defaults on their debt rise, unemployment rise and corporate debt defaults rise too. And so, in total, banks could be facing billions of pounds of bad debts.            
