The government will take another step today towards nationalising the entire banking industry by offering to buy shares in those institutions which sign up to a scheme offering potentially unlimited insurance against losses on their assets.In a second, and desperate attempt, to get credit flowing through the economy, ministers will try to put tougher conditions on the banks being bailed out to force them to lend more money to businesses and households.The insurance scheme is part of a multi-layered package from the Treasury forced on the government by a deepening recession, frozen credit and the evaporation of the mortgage market. In return for the insurance, the Treasury will demand formal contractual agreements from individual banks that they will lend more than they are currently. It will insist that the banks lend to British firms and individuals.Officials refused to put a figure on the potential liability from the insurance scheme saying it would depend on how many banks took up the offer.But if the scheme is to fill the void, ministers will have to expose taxpayers to billions of pounds of risk. Banks will be given a choice of paying a fee in return for the insurance, or offering the government an equity stake. The scheme is similar to one deployed in America last week to rescue Citigroup, UBS and Bank of America.Last night Treasury officials were locked in rounds of talks with bank chief executives in Whitehall. In a race against time, ministers will make an announcement this morning before the stockmarket opens. They will convene a Downing Street press conference and make a Treasury statement to the Commons in the afternoon.The move comes as the banks prepare to announce staggering losses including an expected statement from Royal Bank of Scotland that it has suffered the biggest corporate loss in British history: &pound;20bn.The Treasury is expected to make as many as four other announcements alongside the insurance scheme, including: An increase in the government stake in Royal Bank of Scotland from 58% to 70% through a share swap scheme. Under the terms of the original recapitalisation the loans carried an onerous 12% rate of interest, encouraging the banks to pay them back as quickly as possible instead of lending. The preference shares will now be exchanged for ordinary shares, but it is thought that Lloyds-HBOS in which the government also has a stake is resisting the plan. An extension in the breadth and length of the &pound;200bn special liquidity scheme that had been dealing with mortgages issued to the end of 2006. The scheme, of which &pound;100bn had been taken up, was due to close next month, but will now continue for the year. It is expected to be extended by including new mortgages. Steps to create a &pound;100bn-plus market in new mortgages over the next two years proposed by Sir James Crosby, deputy chairman of the Financial Services Authority. A new expansionary business plan for Northern Rock, the government-owned mortgage firm. The original plan for Northern Rock, agreed with the European commission, had been for a rapid run-down of the mortgage book. The government has rejected plans for a so-called a bad bank to absorb toxic assets. Ministers are not describing the package as the last throw of the dice, but recognise the October &pound;37bn recapitalisation scheme has failed to fill the gap in lending. The package is politically fraught for Gordon Brown since he will be forced to admit that parts of the October bail-out need revision.Speaking in Egypt yesterday he said: "My first priority is hard working families worried about whether they can get a mortgage; it is businesses who themselves work very hard every day to employ people. They need, all of them, credit and lending to be moving."They need the banks to do the job that banks say they are there to do. We know that the essential problem, ... is the resumption of lending and the expansion of lending."BankingEconomic policySharesMortgagesBorrowing &amp; debtInsuranceCredit crunchguardian.co.uk &copy; Guardian News &amp; Media Limited 2009   Use of this content is subject to our Terms &amp; Conditions   More Feeds 
