Question: Will you please describe, in layman's terms, what a credit default swap is and the impact of these insurance-like contracts in creating the current havoc in the marketplace?Dr. Plath: Sure. A credit default swap is a financial security that provides buyers with financial protection against the default of a particular company named by the swap contract. If the company covered by the swap contract defaults on its debt obligations, then the seller of the swap makes a lump-sum payment to the owner of the swap.In order to purchase the swap contract, the buyer makes a regular annual payments to the swap seller over the life of the swap, just as if the swap buyer had purchased an insurance policy insuring the default risk of the company named in the swap contract. The term of the swap ranges from one to five years, so swap buyers can obtain insurance protection against default for various periods of time.CDS contracts are extremely popular with commercial lenders, since the lender can purchase the swap as an insurance policy that pays off in the event the borrower defaults on the loan agreement. That limits the financial loss to the lender if and when the borrower does not repay the loan. The price of the swap, representing the cost of insuring the possibility of borrower default, rises as the credit risk of the borrower increases, and falls as the credit risk of the borrower decreases. That's why rising swap prices are frequently used by financial analysts to point out rising credit risk across companies that are growing weaker within the economy.It's not the swap contracts themselves that create havoc in the marketplace. It's the counterparty risk contained in the swap contract that creates problems.Right now, AIG (the big insurance company) represents the world's largest issuer of CDS contracts. If AIG declares bankruptcy this week -- which is becoming a very real possibility -- then buyers of AIG's swap contracts will lose the insurance protection that's provided by the swap contracts they have purchased. This creates additional risk in the credit market, and given the huge size of the AIG's swap portfolio, the additional risk introduced into the market from an AIG bankruptcy filing would be significant.
