* NAB to cut H1 dividend by about 25 percent  * Will retain its UK banks, no major shocks  * Shares jump almost 5 pct (Adds analyst quotes, background)  SYDNEY, March 12 (Reuters) - Top lender National Australia Bank (NAB.AX) said it would cut its first-half payout by 25 percent, becoming the second local bank to cut its dividend in the face of rising bad debts and higher funding costs.  However, the stock rose as much as 5 percent as investors felt relieved that its overall business remained strong.  NAB revealed the dividend cut, as expected, in a strategy update on Thursday. It delivered no shocks or revised outlook, saying it wanted to hang on to its UK businesses.  Australian bank dividends are being hit by rising bad debts as the local economy shudders to a halt, but there were fears that NAB would be drawn into a fire-sale of its two UK banks which have been battered by far worse conditions in Britain.  But NAB said it was keeping Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks, describing them as fundamentally sound.  'There were no shocks,' said Christopher Hall, banking analyst at Argo Investments. 'There was nothing to suggest things were worse than expected. That came as a relief today.'  NAB shares were up 4.7 percent at A$17.07 in morning trade, despite announcing its first dividend cut since 1991.  'The environment we are in is changing fast,' Chief Executive Cameron Clyne said in the strategy update which kept the bank's domestic market at the centre of its strategic focus.  'The world is moving into a recessionary cycle at a speed that was not anticipated six months ago. There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery.'  NAB's dividend cut follows a move in February by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group (ANZ.AX), the fourth-largest Australian lender, to cut its payout. That was the first major dividend cut by a major Australian bank since the early 1990s.  'I think that's prudent,' said Rohan Walsh, investment manager at Karara Capital.  Australian banks never made big forays into offshore lending, avoiding the banking disasters the swept Europe and the United States, but they can no longer escape the effects of a slowing home economy, higher wholesale funding costs squeezing their lending margins, lower mortgage growth and rising bad debts. Continued...  
