Conversus Capital, L.P. (Euronext Amsterdam: CCAP) ('Conversus') is the largest publicly traded portfolio of third party private equity funds. It is a permanent capital vehicle providing its unit holders long-term capital appreciation through a portfolio of high-quality, seasoned private equity interests. Conversus' objective is to provide unit holders with immediate exposure to a diversified portfolio of private equity assets, access to best-in-class general partners and consistent NAV growth that outperforms the public markets. Conversus reinvests the distributions from its current investments in primary fund commitments, secondary fund purchases and direct co-investments. Conversus Asset Management, LLC ('CAM'), an independent asset manager, implements Conversus' investment policies and carries out the day to day operations of Conversus pursuant to a services agreement. CAM leverages the platforms of Bank of America and Oak Hill, its primary owners, in sourcing investments for the benefit of Conversus.   Legal Disclaimer   These materials are not an offer for sale of securities in the United States. Securities may not be sold in the United States absent registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or an exemption from registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Conversus is not a registered investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the 'Investment Company Act'), and the resale of Conversus securities in the United States or to U.S. persons that are not qualified purchasers as defined in the Investment Company Act is prohibited. Conversus does not intend to register any offering in the United States or to conduct a public offering of its securities in the United States. Forward-Looking Statements   These materials may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, investments, business, net asset value and prospects of Conversus. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty, because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future, and there are many factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Conversus does not undertake to update any of these forward-looking statements. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.   Conversus Capital, L.P.   Tim Smith, Chief Financial   Officer   Tel: +44.1481.745.175   tim.smith@conversus.com   or   ICR, Inc.   Anne   Rakunas   Tel: +1.310.954.1113   anne.rakunas@icrinc.com   or   Media   Contact:   ICR, Inc.   Brian Ruby   Tel: +1.203.682.8268   brian.ruby@icrinc.com   (END) Dow Jones Newswires
