ANZ Banking Group Ltd will absorb its separately managed specialist asset finance business Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd into the bank.  ANZ said the transition will occur over the next three months, and involved the transfer of $13 billion worth of assets from the Esanda entity to ANZ. 'Esanda has built a broad base of loyal debenture customers,' ANZ's managing director of Esanda Moray McDonald said. 'Our customers are naturally attracted to the government guarantee, and today's change delivers them the benefit of the government guarantee when their debenture matures.' The federal government last year launched the Australian Government Guarantee Scheme for Large Deposits and Wholesale Funding to underpin confidence in bank deposits and help banks raise funds in wholesales lending markets with the backing of the Commonwealth's triple A credit rating.  ANZ said making Esanda a division of the bank will not be material to the bank but while allow Esanda's customers to benefit from the changes in the marketplace in recent months.  Esanda mostly lends to small and medium sized businesses, automotive retailers, car and equipment buyers.  ANZ under the change, all existing Esanda debentures will be maintained, but no new ones will be issued from Wednesday.  ANZ will also launch the Esanda Term Deposit, supported by the federal government's guarantee on bank deposits. 'Esanda has benefited from being part of the ANZ Group for over 50 years,' Mr McDonald said. 'Ours is a strongly performing business and our brand and business operations will not change. 'As overseas financiers have withdrawn from the Australian market we have welcomed many new, quality auto retailers to Esanda and have begun an exciting new partnership with Subaru.' Existing debenture holders are not affected until their debenture matures and will continue to benefit from Esanda's AA credit rating and the strength of its ownership by ANZ.  Existing terms and conditions continue to apply until maturity, when holders will be offered the opportunity to roll-over their investment into an Esanda Term Deposit.  ANZ said the change has been approved by the ANZ and Esanda boards, in consultation with the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. 'The transition to a division causes no change to management reporting lines or the position of Esanda staff, who were already ANZ group employees,' the bank added.
