SOURCE: Marketing Concepts International  TORONTO--(Marketwire - March 5, 2009) - Marketing Concepts International (PINKSHEETS: MCCI) announces Trust Fund Finance Director.  Kenneth W. Mann, President and CEO, announced the appointment of Jim Shelley to oversee the MCCI shareholder trust account. Mr. Shelley is an experienced Corporate and Private banking executive. He began his career with Citibank in New York, served as President and CEO for Bank of America from 1986 to 1992. He then acted as Senior Account Manager for Coutts and Co. in the Bahamas. Since 1998, Jim has independently managed a portfolio of investments for clients with focus on tax efficiency and secured returns. Throughout his career, Mr. Shelley has been recognized for his successful turnaround strategies, employing a hands-on consultative style with both his clients and employees.  The shareholders of MCCI will receive a preferred stock dividend, which will be distributed as sales are generated by the MCCI clients being funded. A percentage of the client corporations' net sales will be deposited in a trust account with a Canadian chartered bank.  The trust account will be used to establish a cash value for all outstanding preferred shares. As sales increase, either from existing MCCI clients or from the acquisition of new clients, the trust account will reflect the increase in the value of the preferred shares. All or any part of an MCCI stockholder's preferred shareholdings may be redeemed for its cash value at any time.  For more information, visit our website www.marketingconceptsintl.com or send an email to info@marketingconceptsintl.com  This release may include projections of future results and 'forward-looking statements' as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended (the 'Securities Act'), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the 'Exchange Act'). All statements that are included in this release, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable; it can give no assurances that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations disclosed in this release, including, without limitation, in conjunction with those forward-looking statements contained in this release.  
