National Australia Bank says it has scrapped its 50 cent fee for customers using other banks' ATMS as it slashes its first half dividend by 25 per cent.   The move brings it into line with other major banks who dropped fees for customers using foreign ATMs under the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) new fee regime that came into effect earlier this month.  Under the new pricing regime, an ATM owner can charge a customer directly for the use of the machine but must disclose the fee prior to the transaction.  NAB said it had maintained a 'small fee' as it did incur a cost for its customers using foreign ATMs.  But it said the decision came after a review based on customer feedback and competition from other banks.  The change in fees has been back-dated to March 3.  Meantime the bank will slash its first half dividend by about 25 per cent and seek to boost its Australian business as it eyes potential acquisitions thrown up by the global financial crisis.  The bank, which on Thursday became the second major bank to announce a dividend cut for fiscal 2009, also plans to retain its 'resilient' UK operations despite the difficult economic climate.  In a strategy update, new NAB chief executive Cameron Clyne also flagged a break up of the struggling institutional arm, nabCapital. 'As part of maintaining conservative settings, and reflecting the increasingly challenging external environment, (the) dividend will be reduced by approximately 25 per cent for the 2009 half year,' NAB said in a statement.  NAB's decision to lop its interim dividend comes after rival ANZ Banking Group Ltd said in February it would cut its annual dividend by about 25 per cent. 'Market disruptions are producing unique opportunities,' Mr Clyne said. 'In Australia, we will consider acquisitions where they enhance our organic strategy, for example, in the areas of distribution and brands.' Globally, the bank will consider small acquisitions, such as deposit books or distribution infrastructure. 'We will undertake such investment if it preserves our funding and balance sheet strength,' he added. In outlining his overall strategy for the bank, Mr Clyne said NAB needed to be flexible in the face of an uncertain outlook for the global economy, which was moving into a recessionary cycle.  NAB four main goals will be to main a strong balance sheet, generate more synergies in its business, attract more customers and focus on growing its Australian business. 'The main business priorities are to develop NAB's Australian franchise by growing the business bank, leveraging recent investments in the retail bank and continuing to pursue opportunities across the wealth management value chain,' he said. But Mr Clyne said nabCapital will be restructured, with the corporate lending business merged into the bank business.  The treasury services and specialised finance businesses will be managed as a separate unit, to be called Wholesale Banking. 'The remaining non-franchise related activities will be progressively exited,' he said. The non-franchise areas are outside NAB's relationship model and include purchased conduit assets.  NAB will keep its UK banking business due to its relatively strong performance in a very tough market. 'The reality is that our position is proving to be resilient and our UK assets are performing better than peers on many measures,' Mr Clyne said. 'It is absolutely not in the interest of shareholders to exit our UK position.' NAB added that its businesses in New Zealand, Asia and the US were also proving to be resilient.  Analysts had expected the bank could on Thursday announce job cuts and the sale of the UK operations.  Mr Clyne said there was 'great uncertainty' around the timing and speed of an eventual economic recovery.  It is not yet clear how moves by governments and central banks around the world to prop up business and consumer confidence will pan out. 'Some industry trust has been lost,' Mr Clyne said. 'How consumers will respond, as their confidence returns, is not yet clear. 'We are potentially in for a long period of de-leveraging by households and companies.' But Mr Clyne said the Australian economy was better placed than most. 'Australia has the benefit of timely government and regulatory responses, and is relatively better positioned than many other markets,' he added. In Australia, Mr Clyne sees a chance to lift market share in business lending. 'Risk is being more appropriately priced and this will benefit our business, particularly given our strong relationship banking model,' he said. NAB's personal banking business was well positioned due to its low relative exposure to personal unsecured lending and offered 'significant value' going forward. Mr Clyne also sees significant upside in the bank's investments and superannuation business, run by the MLC wealth management arm.  NAB shares closed on Wednesday at $16.30. The stock was trading around $27.66 a year ago. 
