(Adds comments by Guo on possibility of Bank of America selling down stake' no plans to invest overseas; use of loans.)  BEIJING -(Dow Jones)- China Construction Bank Corp. (0939.HK) Chairman Guo Shuqing said Tuesday that Bank of America Corp. (BAC) may further reduce its stake in the Chinese lender as a lock-up period on part of its holding has expired, but a sale is unlikely to happen 'soon.'  Any such sale, if it were to happen, 'wouldn't have a big impact' on China Construction Bank, Guo said.  He said Bank of America could sell a stake of up to 5.78% in China Construction Bank, based on the shares owned by the U.S. lender that aren't now covered by a lock-up period.  In January, Bank of America sold 5.6 billion of the Chinese bank's Hong Kong- listed shares for $2.8 billion, cutting its stake to 16.6% from 19.1%.  The shares it sold were part of an 8.2% stake that were freed from a lock-up period in October. A stake of nearly 11% has a lock-up period lasting until August 2011.  Bank of America 'said it won't reduce its stake soon,' Guo said, adding the U.S. bank will base its decision on its own earnings conditions.  A Bank of America spokesman wasn't immediately available for comment.  China Construction Bank, one of China's four biggest state-controlled banks, aims to account for 10%-12% of China's national target of at least CNY5 trillion in new yuan lending this year, Guo said on the sidelines of the National People's Congress, the country's legislature.  Asked about potential acquisitions overseas, Guo said the bank has no plans to invest overseas for now.  He said he doesn't expect property market conditions to have much impact on the bank's profitability, and doesn't expect the bank's non-performing loan ratio to rise in the second half of the year.  'We will strictly control risks in lending,' he said. Most of the bank's loans have been issued to infrastructure projects, he said.  -Liu Li contributed to this story, Dow Jones Newswires; 8610 6588 5848; li.liu@dowjones.com  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-10-09 0831ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc.  
