CANTOR FITZGERALD LP  The financial services firm promoted Shawn Matthews, previously executive managing director and head of the debt capital markets group, to chief executive of the firm's Cantor Fitzgerald &amp; Co unit. Matthews will replace Philip Marber, who will step back from day-to-day management and will focus on strategic direction and recruitment.   BNP PARIBAS  The French bank named Sebastian Cottrell, formerly a structured credit trading portfolio manager at Blue Mountain Capital Management, to BNP's structured credit trading team in the United States. He will be based in New York and report to Olivier Renart, head of U.S. structured credit, and Romain Blanchard, a top London-based executive in BNP's structured credit market making platform.   FREDDIE MAC  Freddie Mac CEO David Moffett resigned, effective no later than March 13. The board of directors is working with the Federal Housing Finance Agency to appoint a successor to Moffett. Please see  ALLIED CAPITAL CORP  The company separated the roles of chairman and CEO, effective March 3. The company promoted John Scheurer, managing director, to CEO. Scheurer, also appointed president, has held key leadership positions during his 18-year tenure.  William Walton, who has been chairman, president and CEO since 1997, will continue as chairman.  WATSON WYATT WORLDWIDE INC  The consulting firm appointed Nicholas Smith to lead its defined contribution investment team. Nicholas joins from Schroder Investment Management where he spent the last 12 years on the institutional side of the firm, including as an executive director.  BAIRD  The investment banking, private equity, wealth and asset management firm hired Jonathan Harrison as a director. He was formerly head of business services for EMEA at Deutsche Bank .  SOCIETE GENERALE  Societe Generale named Yann Garnier as head of structured product sales of the global equities &amp; derivatives solutions division for Asia Pacific. Garnier previously headed equity derivatives sales for the Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa regions for corporate &amp; investment banking.   PIPER JAFFRAY COS  The investment bank and institutional securities firm appointed Eric Sanschagrin as managing director, technology investment banking with immediate effect.   Sanschagrin was previously at Citigroup Inc where he was managing director and lead the firm's European technology team.  DEUTSCHE BANK  Deutsche Securities Inc (DSI) named Naoki Kamiyama as managing director and chief equity strategist in its global markets research department, effective May 4.  Kamiyama, most recently Japanese equity strategist for Morgan Stanley Japan Ltd, will lead DSI's equity portfolio and market strategy formulation.  Separately, Deutsche Bank named Marc Pandraud, 50, a former Bank of America Corp executive, as chief country officer of France. Please see for additional details.  BENSON ELLIOT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  The private equity real-estate firm appointed Philipp Braschel as principal, responsible for leading its investment strategies in Germany. Braschel was previously an executive director in Goldman Sachs Real Estate Principal Investment Area, managers of the Whitehall Funds.   LOMBARD ODIER  The private bank announced the appointment of Michael Kuenzi as head of its Eastern Countries Group, which includes Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia. Kuenzi joins from UBS where he was previously head of wealth management in Russia.  GLEACHER SHACKLOCK  Dorian Lowell has joined the corporate finance advisory firm as partner to head up its special situations practice and enhance the firm's capability in advising on situations requiring specialist debt financing expertise.  Lowell was most recently a partner and managing director at One East Partners, a $2 billion hedge fund based in New York and London, where he was responsible for private and illiquid investments. 
