 CHICAGO  Merrill Lynch today (March 4, 2009) announced that Larry Schwartz, 72, has joined Merrill Lynch as First Vice President-Investments and Financial Advisor in its Chicago Loop office.  Prior to joining Merrill Lynch, Schwartz was most recently with UBS for 18 years and previously with its predecessor firm Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., as well as Morgan Stanley and E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. His book of business totals more than $156 million in client assets.  We strive to hire the best advisors in the industry so we can continue to pursue our commitment to provide superior wealth management services for our clients in the community and to serve as essential partners in enabling them to achieve the life they desire, said J. David Sontag, Regional Managing Director for Merrill Lynch. Were thrilled to welcome an industry veteran like Larry to our Chicago team as he is an ideal fit for further leveraging this commitment.  Schwartz previously served as member of the Chicago Board of Trade, member of Chicago Board Options Exchange, director of the Bond Club of Chicago, treasurer and member of the Board of Governors for the Saddle and Cycle Club, and director of the Boys and Girls Club of Chicago.  He earned a masters of business administration in finance from Cornell University, a bachelors of science in economics and mathematics from Purdue University.  Merrill Lynch is one of the world's leading wealth management, capital markets and advisory companies, with offices in 40 countries and territories and total client assets of approximately $1.2 trillion at December 26, 2008. As an investment bank, it is a leading global trader and underwriter of securities and derivatives across a broad range of asset classes and serves as a strategic advisor to corporations, governments, institutions and individuals worldwide. Merrill Lynch has approximately 50 percent ownership in BlackRock Inc., one of the world's largest publicly traded investment management companies, with approximately $1.3 trillion in assets under management at December 31, 2008. For more information on Merrill Lynch, please visit www.ml.com. Merrill Lynch was acquired by Bank of America on January 1, 2009.
