The US Government's gold reserves stood at 8133.5 tonnes at September last year.  That's about three quarters of the world's gold held in foreign exchange reserves. Other countries have run down their holdings of physical gold and replaced them with foreign currency holdings, mainly in US dollars, and on a combined measure, the US is an also ran, with reserves of about $US71 billion.  China tops the list, with reserves of $US1.95 trillion at the end of last year. Japan has reserves of about $US1 trillion, the eurozone has reserves of about $US430 billion and Russia has reserves of about $US382 billion.  But gold is booked for reserve calculations at the old Bretton Woods price of $US35 an ounce. At gold's current price of about $US935 an ounce, America's 8133.5 tonne or 261.5 million ounce stockpile is worth about $US245 billion. Mark it to market, and US reserves leap to $US306 billion  still less than China and Japan, but in the same league as Europe.  It is still not a lot compared with the amount the US Government is throwing at the crisis: the Obama Administration intends to spend $US3.6 trillion and run a $US1.75 trillion domestic deficit in its 2009-10 September fiscal year, pushing America's total debt load beyond $US11 billion.  More than half that debt is in the form of US Government bonds and notes - the paper that other governments, including China and Japan, are overwhelmingly invested in: the hidden value in America's gold vaults and faith that the US will always be good for its debts may help explain why US bonds continue to be bought, even though America is Crisis Central.  IT'S worth comparing APRA's response to NAB's $360 million foreign exchange loss crisis in 2004 with last week's ASIC response to ANZ's Opes Prime affair.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the securities regulator, conducted the Opes probe because shares and margin loans were at the heart of the debacle. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), the bank regulator, maintained a watching brief, but was not directly involved.  ASIC has extracted an enforceable undertaking from the ANZ that requires the bank to fix what ASIC says are weaknesses in its custodian services and securities lending unit, the branch that was the conduit for Opes funding. The weaknesses include compliance breakdowns and inadequate resourcing and risk management.  ANZ and Opes' other lender, Merrill Lynch, have been granted a waiver from legal action subject to their completion of a proposed settlement that will see $253 million paid to Opes' liquidator.  However, ASIC says it could decide to launch legal action if the proposed settlement falls through, and says that it could also decide to qualify ANZ's financial services licence if the bank fails to deliver on the terms of its enforceable undertaking.  The remedies and ASIC's comments were a public reprimand for ANZ, but they do not suggest, however, that the regulator has concluded that the Opes affair has revealed group-wide structural flaws and systemic risk inside the ANZ.  A much more sweeping verdict was handed down after NAB's foreign exchange loss debacle.  After examining what happened, APRA, in March 2004, ordered NAB to totally overhaul its internal risk assessment and reporting systems, and told the bank that, pending the successful completion of that task, NAB was to scrap its internal risk assessment model, lift its total capital adequacy ratio from about 9.7 per cent to 10 per cent, and close its foreign currency trading desk to corporate business and principal trading. Continued  
