CREDITORS of failed Opes Prime Stockbroking will share Australia's biggest-ever compensation payout  a $253 million sum funded by ANZ and Merrill Lynch  if they agree to quit all legal claims against the financiers.  The proposed settlement comes almost a year after Opes collapsed amid allegations of fraud, and eight months after the corporate regulator, Opes' liquidator and its banks opened talks to get around a minefield of litigation.  The deal must gain approval from Opes creditors who, it is proposed, would be corralled into a scheme of arrangement. If at least half the creditors, representing at least 75 per cent of the debt owed by Opes, agree to the deal, all Opes creditors will beforced to accept it, regardless of how they voted.  It must also be approved by the Federal Court before and after it is put to creditors.  The proposed payout represents about 36 cents in the dollar for the $640 million Opes owed at March 27, 2008, when ANZ, Merrill Lynch and Dresdner Kleinwort exercised their rights under share lending agreements and seized $1.6 billion of clients' share portfolios.  But it represents a huge financial and reputational loss for ANZ, and underscores how anxious the banks are to avoid court scrutiny of their actions in the days just before Opes sank into receivership.  Opes' clients had deposited shares with their broker, borrowed funds from Opes to buy more shares, and blithely signed themselves into share-lending agreements. Opes deposited the shares with the financiers and borrowed more funds. When the broker failed, ANZ seized $910 million of portfolios to cover $660 million it had lent Opes, but it later emerged that just before March 27, ANZ had beefed up its security by re-wording its share-lending agreement with the broker.  The changed affected the way the shares were valued, a move the Australian Securities and Investments Commission believed may have favoured the bank by $240 million.  ANZ later lodged a claim for $150 million with the liquidator. In effect, instead of being $260 million ahead after seizing the share portfolios, ANZ believed it had incurred a loss. Now it is doling out almost $200 million in compensation.  ASIC yesterday said it had examined Opes, ANZ and Merrill Lynch over possible breaches of the laws related to managed investment schemes, and had considered seeking court-based compensation for clients.  The regulator believed that, by selling retail clients a share-lending product devised for sophisticated investors in the wholesale market, and by pooling the clients' funds as collateral for making its own deals with the banks, Opes may have been running an unregistered managed investment scheme. ASIC investigated whether or not ANZ and Merrill Lynch were complicit in this.  The regulator also considered suing Opes directors and ANZ officers for allegedly breaching their fiduciary duties.  If the deal is accepted, ASIC will not pursue ANZ or Merrill Lynch in court.  ASIC is still investigating Opes' activities, and the banks are not yet entirely off the hook. As well, ASIC is still investigating Opes Prime directors Laurie Emini, Julian Smith and Anthony Blumberg.  Any action stemming from their investigations are expected to be revealed in May.  Of the $253 million in compensation, about $228 million will come from ANZ and Merrill Lynch directly. About $8 million will be directed to pay the costs of liquidator John Lindholm and his team at Ferrier Hodgson, and a further $8 million will be used to pay legal costs for extinguishing numerous Opes-related court cases against ANZ and Merrill Lynch.  Mr Lindholm said he believed most Opes clients would lodge claims based on the value of their share portfolios at March 27. After this, share prices plunged amid global economic turmoil. At October 16, Opes owed its clients and creditors about $300 million compared with $640 million at March 27.  Mr Lindholm said many Opes clients would be justified in claiming they were misled by the company, so they would probably seek a claim for damages based on the value of their shares in March.  The first distribution is not likely until at least October. Opes creditors will vote on the proposed deal in the week ending May 12, and the court will have a second hearing of the matter in the last week of May.  
