With more than 250 delegates and ten exhibitors at the one day event, The Banking and Finance Technology Forum Asia brings together financial technology executives from across the region to actively participate in discussions shaping the mobile banking industry, as well as effective risk management strategies in the face of the recent economic downturn. Coming into its fifth year, the annual Banking and Finance Technology Forum continues to be Asia's premier banking and finance technology event that delivers an informative and actionable overview of issues behind new technologies in the banking and finance industries. Some of the banks and financial institutions being represented at the forum are ABN Amro NV, AIG, Allianz Global Investors, Bank of America, Bank of China, Barclays, and BNP Paribas Bank, amongst others. 'We are excited to be one of the sponsors and exhibitors at the 5th Annual Banking and Finance Technology Forum Asia. Propalms and our Hong Kong based distributor Jump-In have a unique opportunity to showcase how our products can assist the banking and financial community's operations in a more efficient and effective manner,' stated Owen Dukes, CEO of Propalms, Inc.   To find out more information on the Banking and Technology Forum Asia, please visit www.bftfasia.com.   About Propalms, Inc.:   Propalms, Inc. is a global provider of application delivery solutions for Terminal Services and Virtual Desktop Infrastructures. Delivering to enterprises of all sizes, Propalms offers reliable, scalable and affordable solutions that simply work. Our belief is that application delivery solutions should be flexible, dynamic and, above all, simple to use.   Statements contained in this news release, other than those identifying historical facts, constitute 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Safe Harbor provisions as contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relating to the Company's future expectations, including but not limited to revenues and earnings, technology efficacy, strategies and plans, are subject to safe harbors protection. Actual Company results and performance may be materially different from any future results, performance, strategies, plans, or achievements that may be expressed or implied by any such forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. GlobeNewswire, Inc.2009
