ANZ Bank and Merrill Lynch have reached an in principal $253 million settlement agreement with the liquidators of Opes Prime and the corporate regulator.  The agreement follows mediation between Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), ANZ, Merrill Lynch and the Opes Prime liquidators, Ferrier Hodgson, ASIC said in a statement. 'The in-principle global settlement proposal involving all parties totals approximately $253 million in cash and other assets,'' ANZ said in a statement. ANZ said the settlement pool was to be funded by its contributions, contributions from Merrill Lynch and 'the release to the liquidators of cash and assets obtained by the receivers of Opes''.  ASIC said it had agreed not to pursue legal actions against secured creditors ANZ and Merrill Lynch should the proposal be approved by the federal court and Opes Prime creditors.  Its major objective in encouraging the mediation had been to recover compensation for investors without the need for costly litigation and multiple actions, ASIC said. 'The agreement is subject to approval by Opes creditors through a scheme of arrangement to resolve all outstanding claims by Opes creditors against ANZ and other parties,'' ASIC said.  ASIC chairman Tony D'Aloisio said a compromise settlement made commercial sense. 'And hence ASIC will provide the necessary releases to allow the settlement to move forward and be considered by creditors and the court,'' he said. 'In the event that creditors or the court do not approve the settlement, the releases do not apply and ASIC will reassess its position and weigh up public interest and other considerations to determine if it will commence any civil proceedings.''  ASIC said the proposed $253 million settlement would give a return of about 40 cents in the dollar to creditors of Opes Prime based on the value of claims when the stock lender went into administration on March 27, 2008.  Opes Prime owed clients about $585 million at the time of the collapse.  About 1200 Opes clients lost shares they had placed with Opes in return for margin loans, when the major secured creditors of Opes - ANZ, Merrill Lynch and Dresdner Kleinwort - began selling a pool of nearly $1.6 billion in shares soon after the Opes collapse, in a bid to recover money owed to them by Opes.  Opes had on-loaned the shares from its clients to these secured creditors, but Opes clients believe that they had retained ownership of the shares.   AAP
