 Published:  (ARA) - Small businesses are the backbone of the U.S. economy representing 99.7 percent of all employer firms and generating 60 to 80 percent of new jobs annually over the past decade, according to the Small Business Administration. As the economy continues to fluctuate, small business owners must focus on being innovative and find creative ways to help their business grow. It is likely that the innovation and creativity that has been the driving force behind small business growth over the last decade will also help lead the U.S. out of the economic environment that it's in today.  One such innovative and successful small business owner is Bonnie Marcus, owner of The Bonnie Marcus Collection, 'where fashion meets paper.' Bonnie decided to launch her own business in 2002 from her kitchen table after she saw a lack of fashion-forward wedding invitations in the market. Today, her fresh, clean, and forward-thinking stationary line can be seen in the hands of numerous a-list celebrities as well as in over 1,000 retail stores throughout the country. She has also expanded her line from wedding invitations to birth announcements, holiday designs, and even a flip-flop collection.  Bonnie always remains focused on her business goals, allowing her to expand her business, regardless of economic conditions. Here are Bonnie's three creative tips that will help you grow your small business during any economic cycle:  * Make your business schedule work for you. If you are married, or have children, you might not be able to structure your business around the traditional 9 to 5 principle. With the internet being available 24/7, it allows you to take advantage of early mornings, late evenings, and the weekend hours. This flexibility can be a real resource for small business owners focused on growth and a work life balance.  * Get help managing the books. 'It's important for small business owners to remember that there are tools out there that offer the convenience, security and control needed to keep a small business's finances on track,' Marcus says.  As a Bank of America customer, Bonnie has access to the resources she needs for her business, like Express Invoicing and Easy Online Payroll. By offering packages like Business Fundamentals for sole proprietors and start-up companies and Business Advantage for more established small businesses with employees, Bank of America provides tools that can be customized to meet the financial needs of small business owners at every stage of growth. Using Bank of America's small business solutions saves her time and allows her to focus on growing her business.  * Cultivate a small business network. Bonnie found that through connections with other small business owners, she was able to save money and find increased value through bartering and trading valuable services. Bonnie extended her creative services to the printing shop and provided them with a new logo design and in return she received discounted printing services. Think about your small business network and who you might be able to barter with, to save money and increase your bottom line.  For more information on how to manage and grow your small business, visit www.BankofAmerica.com and click on small business.
