On a same-store basis, Macy's, Inc. sales were down 8.5 percent in February. This is consistent with management's expectations.  Online sales (macys.com and bloomingdales.com combined) were up by 16.2 percent in February. Online sales are included in the same-store sales calculation for Macy's, Inc.  Members of Macy's, Inc. senior management will be featured speakers at the Bank of America and Merrill Lynch Consumer Conference in New York City, scheduled for 8:25 a.m. ET on Wednesday, March 11, 2009. Media and investors may access the live audio Webcast at www.macysinc.com/ir, beginning at 8:25 a.m. ET. The webcast will also be available for replay.  Macy's, Inc., with corporate offices in Cincinnati and New York, is one of the nation's premier retailers, with fiscal 2008 sales of $24.9 billion. The company operates more than 840 department stores in 45 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico under the names of Macy's and Bloomingdale's. The company also operates macys.com and bloomingdales.com. Prior to June 1, 2007, Macy's, Inc. was known as Federated Department Stores, Inc.  All statements in this press release that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Macy's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this release because of a variety of factors, including conditions to, or changes in the timing of, proposed transactions, prevailing interest rates, changes in expected synergies, cost savings and non-recurring charges, competitive pressures from specialty stores, general merchandise stores, manufacturers' outlets, off-price and discount stores, new and established forms of home shopping (including the Internet, mail-order catalogs and television) and general consumer spending levels, including the impact of the availability and level of consumer debt, the effect of weather and other factors identified in documents filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  (NOTE: Additional information on Macy's, Inc., including past news releases, is available at www.macysinc.com/pressroom).  
