  Font Size:  Print  Email  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  F1Q09 Earnings Call  Executives  Viki Lazaris  Senior Vice President of Investor Relations  Bill Downe  President and Chief Executive Officer  Frank Techar  Head of P&amp;C Canada  Russel C. Robertson  Interim Chief Financial Officer  Thomas E. Flynn  Chief Risk Officer, Executive Vice President  Analysts  Jim Bantis  Credit Suisse  Darko Mihelic  CIBC World Markets  Andre Hardy  RBC Capital Markets  Michael Goldberg  Desjardins Securities  Brad Smith  Blackmont Capital  [Miriam Mandulka]  Genuity Capital Markets  Robert Sedran  National Bank Financial  Presentation  Operator  Good afternoon and welcome to the BMO Financial Groups first quarter 2009 conference call for March 3, 2009. Your host for today is Viki Lazaris, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Ms. Lazaris, please go ahead.  Viki Lazaris  Good afternoon everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Were in St. Johns, Newfoundland today where we held our AGM this morning. Presenting on the call today are Bill Downe, BMOs CEO, Russel Robertson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Tom Flynn, our Chief Risk Officer.  The following members of the management team are also here this afternoon to answer questions; Tom Milroy from BMO Capital Markets, Gilles Ouellette from the Private Client Group, Frank Techar, Head of P&amp;C Canada, Ellen Costello from P&amp;C US, and Barry Gilmour, Head of Technology and Operations.  After the presentation, the management team will be available to answer questions from pre-qualified analysts. To give everyone an opportunity to participate we ask that you please ask one or two questions then re-queue. Were planning to keep the call to one hour.  At this time I would like to caution our listeners by stating the following on behalf of those speaking today. Forward-looking statements may be made during this call and there are risks that actual results could differ materially from forecasts, projections, or conclusions in the forward-looking statements. Certain material factors and assumptions were applied and drawing the conclusion or making the forecasts or projections in these forward-looking statements.  You can find additional information about such material factors and assumptions and the material factors that could cause actual results to so differ in our caution regarding forward-looking statements set out forthwith in our news release from this morning or on the investor relations website.  With that said, I can hand things over to Bill.  Bill Downe  Thank you, Viki and good afternoon everyone. As noted, my comments may include forward-looking statements. For those of you who have already had the chance to review our first quarter numbers, youve doubtlessly recognized the contrasting elements in our results.  Clearly the solid performance of our core businesses is not reflected in the Q1 bottom line and income number as reported. Our core businesses are performing very well in todays recessionary economic environment. In particular, the Canadian retail business continues to make steady quarter-over-quarter progress in meeting its customer service objectives. This progress is driving market share growth and financial performance and is anticipated to be reflected throughout the remainder of the year.  Lower revenues and corporate services coupled with increased PCLs primarily on U.S. real estate muted our first quarter results and the continued strength of our business. In fact, excluding the capital markets environment charges this quarter we earned $1.09 cash per share.  This morning we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.70 unchanged from the first quarter. This represents an annual rate of $2.80 per share. Over 15 years to the end of fiscal 2008 our dividend grew at a compound annual rate of 11.3%.  Some people have suggested that given tough economic times today that the rate of growth was perhaps too quick but few foresaw this economy and hindsight is always informative. Even acknowledging that however, the long-term target payout ratio is just that, long-term.  Current earnings have been impacted by loan losses that have escalated to much higher levels, although still consistent with this stage of the credit cycle. At the same time there have been valuation changes related to the capital markets environment. But we recognize the strength in our core businesses and their continuing progress.  As I stated to our shareholders this morning, given our strong capital position, core earnings power, and the importance that our shareholders attach to the dividend, in the absence of a more negative outlook for the economy or the bank, we believe its appropriate to pay the current dividend.  Well be managing levels of capital utilization and expenses aggressively and continue to grow revenue with a view to returning the payout ratio to within the long-term target.  Lets now turn to the banks financial results in slide five. Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $225 million compared to $255 in Q1 '08 and $560 in Q4 '08.  In the first quarter we took the view that our priority in this economy was to strengthen our balance sheet and we acted accordingly raising approximately $1.6 billion in tier one capital in the quarter. As a result, our tier one capital ratio at the end of Q1 was 10.2% and our tangible common equity to risk rated assets ratio was 7.8%, among the highest, if not the highest, of the Canadian banks.  This provides a strong measure of confidence in the bank's resilience while also positioning us to take advantage of any opportunities for growth arising in the current environment.  Turning to our operating groups in slide six, P&amp;C Canada reported strong Q1 results both in absolute terms and relative to our peers. Net income was up 12% year-over-year and down 2% versus Q4 '08. Cash productivity was stable at around 56% with positive operating leverage of 3.5% in the quarter. Continued improvement in our net promoter score and objective measure of customer loyalty and market share figures underline the success of our customer focus strategy.  In personal banking, loans increased 21% over Q1 last year with market share up 80 basis points. Deposits rose 3% with market share including term investments up 22 basis points. While mortgage balances were down due to the ongoing runoff of the third party portfolio, balances from proprietary channels increased.  In commercial banking, loan growth was 6% over Q1 last year and market share was up 56 basis points. Deposit growth was over 7%. Cards and payment revenue were up 24% as balance continued to rise due to volume growth and higher Moneris revenues.  Were continuing to make the bank more visible in the market place. We have a clearly defined and differentiated brand promise centered on helping our customers make sense of their finances and were seeing benefits from this.  P&amp;C U.S. generated Q1 net income of $27 million U.S. and we continue to hold our own in a very challenging environment. Significant deposit growth is proof that the Harris name represents stability in the Chicago market. In addition we are seeing new customers refinancing their mortgages at Harris and we look forward to serving these customers more broadly in the future.  We continue to see elevated loan losses in our P&amp;C U.S. business. Market conditions continue to be extremely volatile through the first quarter due to concerns related to the U.S. real estate market and global recessionary pressures. Specific provisions increased approximately $127 million U.S., $162 million Canadian from a year ago, the majority of which is booked in our corporate segment under our expected loss methodology.  If theres a glimmer of encouragement in all of this, even at these elevated levels we're outperforming our U.S. peers. We continue to view the current environment as a great opportunity for Harris, the natural home for Midwest businesses and individuals, to expand its customer base.  Well be opportunistic, well be looking for good business at good price and theres no rush to make significant acquisitions in this weak economic environment.  Private Client Groups business was affected in the quarter as we expected by reductions in managed and administered assets. In Q1 net income was $57 million down from both comparative quarters. On a positive note net new client assets are increasing and as expected we are focusing on adjusting spending and resource allocation in the current environment.  In the current quarter we enhanced our wealth management offering by acquiring AIG's Canadian Life Insurance business. Combined with BMO and [Burns] we can now provide clients with both the investment and tax efficient insurance solutions they need.  In capital markets we posted net income of $179 million after $348 million of capital markets environment charges. This compared to a loss in Q1 last year and net income of $290 million in Q4 '08.  We benefited from higher trading revenue as well as strong performance in our interest rate sensitive businesses and higher equity underwriting. This offset softness in M&amp;A and market-to-market losses on merchant banking.  The Q1 results underline the importance of the diversity of this business. Collectively and individually our core businesses are performing well or at least holding their own despite difficult markets. Our job is to manage through these times and position the bank to benefit when the economy emerges from the recession.  In Canada real GDP is now expected to contract 2% in 2009. We remain hopeful, however, that the current downturn will be milder than the last two recessions. We expect the economy to turn up later this year in response to aggressive monetary easing, sizable fiscal stimulus, the weakness of the Canadian dollar, and firming U.S. demand.  From a broad economic perspective, we expect the U.S. economy to continue to contract in 2009. Unemployment is expected to climb anothe...
