By KPSP Local 2 News  Fleetwood Enterprises Inc., a Riverside-based manufacturer of recreational vehicles, travel trailers and prefabricated homes, filed Tuesday for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code.  The company said in a statement that its motor home and manufactured housing businesses will continue to operate while it seeks buyers for these entities but that its travel trailer operations will close.  Fleetwood said it filed voluntary Chapter 11 petitions 'for itself and certain operating subsidiaries' in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California in Riverside. The filings do not include any of the company's foreign or non-operating entities. 'While Fleetwood believes it has sufficient cash to operate its businesses in the immediate term, the company is also in advanced discussions with its senior secured lenders for new debtor-in-possession financing to supplement existing working capital,' the statement said.  The company said that as of Jan. 25, it had about $23 million in cash, excluding cash held in entities not subject to the bankruptcy filing.  The filing facilitates the closing of Fleetwood's travel trailer division, a process that already was under way, the statement said. That division accounted for losses of $65.3 million in 2007 and $16.8 million in 2008.  Closing the travel trailer division affects three manufacturing facilities and two service facilities employing a total of about 675 people, the company said, adding that it is also laying off an 65 corporate associates.  The manufacturing plants being shuttered are in Pendleton and La Grande in Oregon and Edgerton, Ohio. 'Although we made substantial progress in restructuring this division and improved the product offering, current market conditions proved too severe to continue the turnaround,' said Fleetwood President and Chief Executive Officer Elden L. Smith.  The bankruptcy filing follows a 3-year-long restructuring effort -- including a 70 percent labor force reduction -- undertaken 'in the face of worsening market conditions and, more recently, unprecedented credit restrictions affecting both dealers and customers,' the company statement said. 'Despite these efforts, however, management determined that a court reorganization would offer the best means of addressing the company's existing debt structure and ongoing losses in travel trailers, which cannot be supported in the current economy,' it said. Smith said that Fleetwood would use Chapter 11 protection 'to more rapidly restructure our overhead, pursue potential buyers, and definitively resolve our debt issues.' He noted that Fleetwood is among 'the most widely recognized names' in the RV and prefab home industries and that it has strong market share as well as 'an extensive dealer network and enthusiastic customer support.' But, 'as important as these assets are, we must take additional steps in response to today's deepening economic challenges,' Smith said. Looking ahead, he said, 'we anticipate a strong rebound when the financing environment stabilizes and consumer confidence improves,' given that RV owners are faithful to their lifestyle. 'We are taking steps to ensure our businesses will be ready when the current markets turn up again,' Smith said. Fleetwood said its bankruptcy filing asks the court to approve pending payments of employee wages and benefits as well as the continuation of some sales incentive programs. 'The company is working with its largest national lender, Bank of America, to continue to provide competitive RV dealer and consumer financing during the reorganization period,' Smith said. 'The vast majority of our suppliers and dealers should see no disruption in our business.' Fleetwood shares, with a 52-week range of between 6 cents and $4.87, closed Monday at 7 cents.
