MELBOURNE underworld figure Mick Gatto and business associate John Khoury have made a secret trip to London in an effort to recoup millions of dollars owed to their clients following the collapse of Opes Prime.  The pair arrived in London last night and are believed to be meeting two Australian business figures  Mihran 'Mick' Shemessian and Leo 'The Gun' Khouri  to broker a deal that could see millions of dollars repaid to the Opes Prime investors who hired Mr Gatto's company, Arbitrations and Mediations.  The timing of the trip coincides with Opes Prime creditors being offered a settlement from ANZ Bank and Merrill Lynch to avoid class action litigation.  That offer, made on Friday to hundreds of Opes Prime shareholders, is believed to equate to between 40 and 56 cents in the dollar on the value of their lost share portfolios.  A guarded Mr Gatto was at Sydney Airport, awaiting a flight to London, when he spoke with The Age.  'I don't know where your mail is from, but it's good,' he said when asked if he was flying to London with Mr Khoury.  'The trip is in relation to Opes, and we're just trying to get a 40 to 50 per cent settlement, and it should be happening in the next week. There will be a big announcement, and then we've done our job, sort of thing.'  According to a source in Perth, Mick Shemessian and Leo Khouri are also meeting in London this week to discuss the ramifications of the Opes Prime settlement on their personal holdings in a range of listed Australian companies.  'I don't think it's an accident that Gatto is in London at the same time as that meeting,' the source told The Age. 'I think he will be brokering a deal with them to repay some of the people who lost their money.'  Following the collapse of Opes Prime, Mr Khouri and his associates and investors lost shares valued in excess of $50 million. They now stand to get back in excess of $20 million.  Despite the timing of his trip, Mr Gatto denied rumours that he was meeting Mr Shemessian and Mr Khouri.  'We haven't got much to do with Mick Shemessian at this stage,' Mr Gatto said. 'This trip has got nothing to do with him.'  Asked if he was heading to Surrey, the county where Mr Shemessian resides at an exclusive estate worth an estimated $20 million, Mr Gatto said: 'Surrey? Yeah, we might be heading there. Not sure just where our travels are going to take us. We'll find out when we get there.'  
