4:30 pm ET Executives  Edward J. Bramson - Chairman of the Board &amp; Chief Executive Officer   Kenneth Fish - Chief Financial Officer  Analysts  Eric Wold  Merriman Curhan Ford &amp; Co. Reed Anderson  D. A. Davidson &amp; Co. Presentation  Operator  Welcome to the Nautilus, Inc. fourth quarter 2008 results conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. Following todays presentation we will have a question-and-answer session. As a reminder this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, march 10th, 2009. Before the call begins listeners should be advised of the Safe Harbor statement that applies to todays call.  Prepared remarks during this call contain forward-looking statements. Additional forward-looking statements may be made in response to questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance. Nautilus undertakes no obligations to update publically any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances after the dates they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  Therefore undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Listeners should review the earnings release to which this conference call relates and the companys most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.   Also Id like to remind you that the company has provided a presentation today to accompany the conference call. The presentation will review the recent projected operational improvements and strategic focus initiatives. This presentation is available on the companys website at www.NautilusInc.com/Earnings. Please take a few moments to locate this presentation now.  On the call today from the company are Mr. Ed Bramson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Kenneth Fish, Chief Financial Officer. I would now like to turn the conference all over to Mr. Ed Bramson.  Edward J. Bramson  Weve got quite a lot of ground to cover today and I know some of the listeners are on the East Coast so I do plan to take you through our strategic review of the direct business and our operating performance but in the interest of time Im going to turn over now to Ken Fish, our CFO, to review our 2008 earnings performance and our turnaround efforts to date.  Kenneth Fish   If you have the press release in front of you you will see that it includes a supplemental disclosure to reconcile GAAP to adjusted pre-tax loss from continuing operations on the last age and also comparative net sales by business segment within the text. While the press release includes both Q4 and full year 2008 information I will only be covering fourth quarter results in my prepared statements.  Net sales from the continuing operations were $92.2 million for the fourth quarter compared to $146.7 million for the corresponding period last year a 37% decrease from Q4 2007 primarily to the weak consumer and tight credit environment. Our direct business sales in Q4 2008 were at $36.0 million down 42% from $61.9 million in the corresponding period of 2007.  The decline is due to overall consumer environment and credit market disruptions as well as an internal decision to reduce the level of discounting versus the prior year. Ed will update you on product strategies for the direct business after I cover the results. Retail sales in Q4 2008 up $28.5 million were down 31% versus last year.  Given the state of the economy we experienced acceptable results with our largest nationwide retail partners but our smaller regional partners did not perform as we expected in the quarter. Commercial business sales were down 37% from $41.9 million to $26.4 million.  This decline is primarily due to the late investment by health clubs to modernize existing equipment, reduced Tread Climber sales, tighter inventory controls by dealers that sale mainly into light commercial applications and delays in opening up new gyms. Excluding Tread Climber sales commercial business revenue was down 29% in Q4 of 2008 versus Q4 of 2007.  As many of you may recall we made a decision to reduce Tread Climber sales in order to improve the design to better match the high hourly usage these machines are receiving in the gyms. We remain dedicated to the Tread Climber Modality and still plan on the future introduction of a new version of this highly desired product for the commercial market but are not yet ready to announce that timing.  Royalty income was down to $1.2 million compared to $1.5 million last year. Our overall gross profit margin for the fourth quarter 2008 improved to 33.7% compared to 24.1% in the year ago quarter. We recorded $3.2 million of restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 primarily associated with the closing of our Tulsa facility and a China inventory reserve. Excluding the charges our adjusted gross profit margin was 37.2% for Q4 2008.  For the fourth quarter of 2007 we recorded $16.1 million of unusual charges mainly inventory and warranty reserves. Excluding the charges our adjusted gross profit margin was 35.1% for Q4 2007. The improvement in adjusted gross margin is due primarily to improvements in our cost structure.  Even though we expect continued pressure on our gross margin percentage until the sales mix shifts back towards the direct channel our continued improvements in the cost structure will offset some of these pressures. Our reported operating expenses declined by approximately $4.6 million in the fourth quarter 2008 compared to the same period last year.  The company incurred $36.9 million of restructuring and other unusual costs during the 2008 period and $27.2 million during the 2007 period. Adjusted for lower sales volumes operating expense reductions were $13.6 million in the fourth quarter compared with reductions of $8.4 million that were projected by the company during the earnings release conference call that you may have joined us on for the second quarter of 2008.  Looking at the components of operating expenses excluding unusual charges our selling and marketing declined from $41.5 million in Q4 07 to $29.8 million in Q4 08 while G&amp;A was reduced from $12.2 million to $8.9 million. On an adjusted basis operating expenses were 44.0% of revenue compared to 38.2% in Q4 2007 even though they declined in real terms due to the drop in sales.  We expect the additional improvements to our cost structure will result in a better year-over-year comparison as a percentage of sales in 2009. Due to our improved liquidity position our interest expense decreased to $0.2 million from $1.7 million in Q4 of the prior year. For the quarter ended December 31st, 2008 we recorded a loss from continuing operations of $41.9 million or $1.37 per diluted share.   Included in the net loss from continuing operations are a non-cash goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charge of $30.9 million pre-tax or $0.81 per share after tax, charges against certain assets of a subsidiary in China of $3.8 million pre-tax or $0.10 per share after tax and restructuring related charges of $6.3 million pre-tax or $0.17 per share after tax.  The restructuring charges are principally related to the previously announced closure of the manufacturing facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma and also some severance and legal costs. During the fourth quarter of 2008 we conducted impairment testing required by SFAS Number 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets and recognized an impairment loss to write down certain assets to implied fair value.  Specifically our goodwill impairment of $29.8 million was related to our retail business and the $1.1 million impairment loss related to our StairMaster trade name. In the fourth quarter of 2007 the company reported a loss from continuing operations of $31.8 million or $1.01 per diluted share including charges of $43.1 million pre-tax or $0.92 per share after tax related to the terminated acquisition of the Land America manufacturing facility in China and inventory and warranty reserves related to certain commercial cardiovascular products.  Excluding non-cash goodwill and intangible impairments and restructuring charges our adjusted loss from continuing operations before income taxes was $10.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with adjusted loss from continuing operations of $6.0 million before tax in the corresponding period of 2007.  The major cause of the increased loss is the decline in the direct business which is the first segment to be impacted by an economic decline. Now I would like to spend a moment discussing cost takeouts in our business. Nautilus tracks cost takeouts by project to ensure the savings become permanent to lower the companys level of sales necessary to break even.  We capture the cost reductions as part of the savings run rate once actual savings begin to be realized for a project. Since most project savings do not begin on January 1st there are carryover savings that represent the difference between the fully annualized cost reduction and that actually saved during the previous year.  Weve achieved annualized run rate cost reductions of $60.4 million including cost of sales of $6.0 million and operating expense reductions of $54.4 million. This compares favorably to the previous projection of $58.2 million of reductions that we provided to the investment community. We have now identified approximately $90 million of annualized cost reductions compared to previous estimates of achieving $64 million.  In addition to the full annual benefits of actions taken in 2008 we are in the process of identifying initiatives to be actioned in 2009 that could achieve additional annualized cost reductions of $17 million. The majority of our cost takeouts in 2009 are from two areas, the first part of the cost takeout is focused on the commercial business.  ...
