THE compensation bill facing ANZ Bank in the Opes Prime settlement negotiated with the corporate regulator is likely to be $180 million of the $253 million that could go to creditors of the failed broking business.  At that amount, the bank will pick up just over 70 per cent of the total costs in order to lift what analysts have described as one of the major 'overhanging legacy issues' that are currently depressing ANZ's share price.  While market watchers have indicated the $180 million bill to settle the controversy after Opes Prime's collapse exactly a year ago is a 'disappointing outcome' for the bank's shareholders, they have indicated ANZ's existing bad-debt provisions will be enough to cover the bill. 'We do not expect to see a material earnings or capital impact [on the bank's results] in [the] 2009 financial year,' said analysts at Deutsche Bank in response to Friday's announcement of the proposed settlement.  Under the terms of the deal, Opes's creditors will receive the $253 million in full settlement of their claims. Creditors include thousands of investors who acquired as much as $1.6 billion worth of shares through their financing arrangements with the failed margin loan lender.  It emerged over the weekend that ANZ will contribute about $180 million with the rest coming from Merrill Lynch, now owned by Bank of America, and cash recovered by the receivers of Opes. But while the three lenders have taken a significant step in resolving their involvement in the collapse of Opes it will still take several months before the saga can be finally laid to rest.  The offer negotiated with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission is dependent on individual creditors giving their approval at a meeting later this year. ASIC's investigation exposed serious shortfalls in the operation of ANZ's equity financing business  The Herald is aware that an increasing number of Opes clients are unhappy with the proposed terms and may reject the settlement on the grounds that it represents a return of as low as 37c in the dollar based on total creditor claims of $640 million. The claims include an amount of $580 million that the broker's creditors were said to be owed on the day Opes collapsed, March 27, 2008, plus additional sums in alleged damages.  ANZ says the $253 million offer is equivalent to a return of 80c in the dollar if it is based on the difference between the $1.6 billion worth of shares lodged as collateral with Opes and the $1.3 billion in margin loans financed by the banks.  
