In return, the liquidators and former Opes clients who are now creditors of the company must agree to cease all legal action against the banks.  What is not clear is whether the settlement, reached after six months of negotiations, can be unstitched by a single Opes client not agreeing to it.  Opes collapsed last March amid controversy over the actions of the two banks which entered into transactions with Opes just before its collapse. This ensured the banks received $1.6 billion worth of shares Opes clients lodged as collateral with the margin lender as security against $1.3 billion worth of margin loans which were ultimately financed by the two banks.  Many Opes clients did not realise the banks had legal ownership of their shares. They now rank as unsecured creditors for the balance of their accounts and dominate those owed money from the collapse.  Creditors are being asked to vote in May on a scheme of arrangement that will require the approval of 75 per cent of them both by number and value of money owed. But doubts have been raised about whether a scheme can be legally binding on former Opes clients in this manner.  This should not be news to the liquidators, whose counsel reached this conclusion last year. Tony Troiani from Mallesons told creditors in October that if the banks agreed to settle claims in return for releases from 'the whole investors body', this could not be achieved by a deed of company arrangement or scheme of arrangement 'or any other way'. 'The only way for damages claims to be settled with the banks was provision of releases from individual creditors,' he said. John Lindholm of Ferrier Hodgson, who heads the team of liquidators, said it had received legal advice the scheme could be implemented as proposed.  An ANZ spokesman would not say if the bank would walk away from the settlement agreement if this was the case.  A former Opes client, Michael Randall, told the Herald yesterday that he would vote against the scheme unless directed otherwise by his legal advisers, Slater &amp; Gordon. The law firm is behind a class action against Opes and its banks.  ANZ said the payout represented a return of 80 cents in the dollar for creditors if calculated against the $300 million these creditors are owed.  This pool of creditors' claims in effect halved between March and October due to a court ruling which determined client accounts were not automatically closed off when the company collapsed in March. This means clients remained exposed to most of last year's sharemarket collapse until liquidators were appointed in October.
