AUSTRALIAN banks have issued more than $20 billion of long-term bonds this month under the Federal Government's wholesale funding guarantee, according to data published yesterday by the Reserve Bank.  While the latest statistics show that banks are continuing to rely on the nation's 'AAA' sovereign rating to raise long-term debt, issuance of short-term debt has slowed this month.   Nine Australian banks have issued $81.2 billion worth of long-term bonds under the wholesale guarantee since the scheme began operating in late November.   The four major banks -- National Australia Bank, ANZ, Westpac and Commonwealth Bank -- have been the most active users of the sovereign credit rating.   Confirmation of the banks' continuing reliance on the funding guarantee came as the controversy over small business lending rates intensified.   Banks have been accused of using the funding guarantee to boost their interest margins on lending to small business customers.   Acting Prime Minister Julia Gillard renewed the Government's call for the banks to pass on official rate cuts to business borrowers. 'We want to support economic activity here and make sure that we get fair arrangements for small business,' Ms Gillard told Sydney radio.   The terms of the funding guarantee scheme have come under attack from second-tier banks, particularly from Bank of Queensland boss David Liddy.   Banks such as BoQ, which have lower credit ratings than the big four, have to pay the government higher fees to issue bonds under the guarantee.   Because of this players such as Bendigo Bank and BoQ have scarcely used the guarantee. 'At the moment the Federal Government is more interested in stability than they are in competition and unless we want an oligopoly like Woolworths and Coles in banking, they better do something about it,' Mr Liddy told an investment conference on the Gold Coast on Tuesday.   The Rudd Government has raked in more than $60 million in fees since it was introduced, but this is likely to exceed $100 million by the end of next month.   Banks are using the guarantee to reduce their reliance on short-term funding, the RBA noted in its March Financial Stability report. 
