Vicor Corp. (VICR)  Executives  Richard Nagel Jr. - Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer  Patrizio Vinciarelli - Chairman, President and CEO  Mark Glazer - Vice President, Treasury Services  James Simms - Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Director  Analysts  John Dillon - JB Associates  Richard Baxter -Ardour Capital  Don McKenna - D.B. McKenna &amp; Company  Daniel Gorman - HighBeam Research  Jim Bartlett - Bartlett Investors  Robert Katz - Senvest  Ron Opel - Marston Capital Management  Presentation  Operator  Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Vicor 2008 Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Eric, I will be your audio coordinator for today. Now at this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode, and we will facilitate the question and answer session at the end of the presentation. (Operator instructions) I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Dick Nagel, Chief Accounting Officer. Please proceed.  Richard Nagel Jr.  Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Vicor's quarterly conference call. I am Dick Nagel, Chief Accounting Officer and with me today is our Chief Executive Officer, Patrizio Vinciarelli, and Mark Glazer our Vice President of Treasury Services. Jamie Simms, our Chief Financial Officer is under the weather and unable to join us today. Earlier this afternoon, we issued a press release outlining our financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.  This press release is available on the Investor page of our website, www.vicorpower.com. We also have filed the Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission in association with issuing this press release. Before we begin, I remind all of you, today's conference call is being recorded and is the copyrighted property of Vicor Corporation. Any rebroadcast, reproduction or other transmission of this conference call in whole or in part without the prior written consent of Vicor is prohibited.  In addition, I also remind you various remarks we may make during this call about future expectations, trends, plans, and prospects for the company and its business constitute forward-looking statements for purposes of the Safe Harbor provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements are denoted by such words as will, would, believe, should, expect, outlook, estimate, plan, anticipate, and similar expressions that look toward future events or performance. These forward-looking statements merely reflect our current beliefs, expectations and estimates, which we share with you during our quarterly conference calls.  Forward-looking statements are based on current information that, by its nature, is dynamic and subject to rapid and even abrupt changes. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in our statements. Such risks and uncertainties are discussed in today's press release as well as our most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC.  A replay of this conference call will be available beginning shortly upon its conclusion through March 25, 2009 by calling 888-286-8010 and using the pass code 74581850. In addition, a webcast replay of this conference will be available on the Investor Relations page of the companys website beginning shortly upon its conclusion.  However, the information provided during this call is accurate only as of the date of this call. Vicor undertakes no obligation to update any of the statements made during this call, and you should not rely upon them after the conclusion of this call. Patrizio and I have prepared remarks, after which we will take your questions. Patrizio?  Patrizio Vinciarelli  Thank you, Dick. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter and year end conference call. As stated in this afternoon press release, revenues for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 increased by approximately 5% to $205 million for 2008, from $196 million for 2007. Our net loss for 2008 was $3.6 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to net income of $5.3 million or $0.13 per diluted share for 2007.  Turning to the fourth quarter of 2008, our revenues of $51.3 million fell short of the $53.9 million for the corresponding period a year ago. We have essentially unchanged from third quarter $51 million. Gross margin in dollars decreased to $20.10 million for the fourth quarter as compared to $21.3 million for the corresponding period a year ago, and $21.9 million for the third quarter of 2008.  Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 40.5% for the fourth quarter of 2008, as compared to 39.4% for the fourth quarter of 2007, and decreased on a sequential basis from 42.7% for the third quarter of 2008.  Our net loss for the fourth quarter was $3.5 million or $0.08 per diluted share, compared to net income of $1.5 million or $0.04 per diluted share for the corresponding period a year-ago and net income of $610,000 or a $0.01 per share for the third quarter of 2008.  While sequential quarterly revenue was probably unchanged, our book-to-bill ratio for the fourth quarter of 2008 was 0.9321 as compared to 1.2021 for the third quarter of 2008. Backlog at the end of 2008 was $52.7 million as compared to $56.4 million at the end of Q3. As we cautioned before our quarterly book-to-bill ratios and backlog levels are not necessarily accurate for the sequential quarterly performance.  Out third quarter 2008 bookings were uncharacteristically high because a few customers accelerated the booking of all this that we had anticipated would be received over subsequent quarters. Similarly, our backlog is at a healthy level because even though the placement of certain orders was accelerated, the shipment of some portion of the associated product has not yet occurred.  Despite the irregularity of our booking trends, we believe that our fourth quarter bookings were influenced to some degree by the further deterioration of general economic conditions. We felt the impact of the driving economy most directly during the quarter in our consolidated gross margin, which was significantly lower in the fourth quarter versus third quarter due to unfavorable changes in product mix and charges associated with establishing or increasing reserves for inventories we had built up in anticipation of forecast sales that had not materialized thats been canceled or being reduced.  Our operating income for the full year and for the fourth quarter was reduced by high expenses particularly marketing, accounting and legal expenses. In addition, in the fourth quarter, we incurred a higher income tax provision as, so there is subsidiary in which we all the minority interest experienced a profit that we could not offset through the companies net operating loss carry forward.  As I said in the prior calls, we are addressing our expenses and progressing on returning Vicor to consistent profitability. Our most significant step toward this goal was the reduction in force completed in January. We are proceeding with a number of projects to re-engineer some or at least efficient business processes enough to see results from these efforts later this year.  Now, we will turn to the fourth quarter performance and outlook for each of our business units. Revenue from our Brick Business unit remained steady, increasing slightly sequentially over the third quarter of 2008, but decreasing by approximately the same amount from those achieved in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The Brick unit experienced approximately 21% decline in orders for the fourth quarter, but I again caution listeners do not interrupt at this decrease not its magnitude, as we indicate our official revenues for the reasons discussed earlier.  We do not disclose the share of any particular market we compete in, but I can highlight that the Brick Business unit is sustaining business unit is sustaining its market position domestically. However, our international business showed further signs of weakness during Q4. While we also do not disclose profitability by individual business unit, the brick unit continues to perform relatively well. Our mass customization strategy, manufacturing flexibility and emphasis on cost reduction allows us to maintain significant profitability.  Our comment to the past regarding the effect of the recession our customers or in-turn our accounts receivable. Were not yet concerned about the quality of our receivables nor with the ability of our customers to pass on time. While we did receive a few more requests for payment accommodation in the fourth quarter and in the third quarter.  Our DSOs are steady and weve not yet experienced a meaningful change in the quality or ageing of our receivables. Ill now turn to our V-I Chip unit, which continues to make progress with component products enabling Factorized Power architecture. I've discussed on the last three earnings calls, the status of some high volume shipments that have been delayed by a major customer.  The revenue ramp that we expected to start in mid-2008 had been pushed out into 2009 and our bookings reflect this push out. While V-I Chips fourth quarter total revenues decreased approximately 24% sequentially on a year-over-year basis of approximately $15 million. V-I Chip was approximately 59% per head in 2008, compared to 2007 revenue levels.  V-I Chips initiative with our brick unit to design a market VI BRICKs maintained this momentum during the fourth quarter. As weve discussed, VI BRICK incorporated have innovated their chief technology to form a factor that offers the mechanical and thermal management flexibility of the traditional upgrade.  In addition, complementary certainly can be added to the package to enable innovative high-performance integrated solutions. While doing so in the smallest footprint available. Engineering and marketing teams from our big Brick Business...
