SYDNEY, March 12 (Reuters) - National Australia Bank , Australia's largest lender, on Thursday became the second Australian bank to announce a dividend cut, saying it would reduce its first-half payout by about 25 percent. NAB revealed the news in a strategy update, which put as its top priority the need to maintain a strong capital base amid the challenges of a domestic economic slowdown and global recession. The bank also said its main focus would continue to be the domestic market but it remained committed to its UK businesses. 'The environment we are in is changing fast,' Chief Executive Cameron Clyne said in the strategy update. 'The world is moving into a recessionary cycle at a speed that was not anticipated six months ago. There is great uncertainty around the timing and speed of an eventual recovery.' NAB's dividend cut follows a move in February by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, the fourth-largest Australian lender, to cut its payout.  That was the first major dividend cut by a major Australian bank since the early 1990s. There has also been speculation that NAB could be looking to sell its British banks amid investor unhappiness about lower returns from the businesses, Clydesdale and Yorkshire banks. But NAB said on Thursday its UK business was sound. 'It is absolutely not in the interest of shareholders to exit our UK position. We are committed to supporting this business and preserving our future options through the UK recovery. The UK business is a scarce and valuable mid-sized player,' Clyne said. NAB's 2009 term funding requirement was over 70 percent complete, the bank said, adding that it was open to acquisitions in Australia, and to small acquisitions internationally. NAB's British operations include 342 branches, principally in Scotland and Yorkshire, and 2.6 million customers in Britain. (Reporting by Mette Fraende, Editing by Mark Bendeich) Keywords: NAB/ (mette.fraende@reuters.com; +612-9373-1815; Reuters Messaging mette.fraende.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
