THE proposed creditors' scheme of arrangement for Opes Prime is novel and possibly unprecedented.  It may enable early payment to clients who suffered heavy losses from the securities-lending practices of the failed stockbroker.  ASIC, ANZ, Merrill Lynch and the liquidator of Opes Prime, Ferrier Hodgson's John Lindholm, have agreed to a settlement offer being put to former clients of the broker by way of a creditors' scheme, under which all creditors, which would presumably include employees, the Tax Office and trade creditors, would be bound to forgo all outstanding claims against ANZ and other parties.   The liquidator has estimated that would result in receipt of $253 million, which would deliver a return of 40c in the dollar to creditors of Opes Prime, including former clients.   It's not clear how much of the $253 million would go to former clients and how much to the other creditors. It's suggested that ANZ will tip in about $180 million of the settlement amount.   Under the Corporations Act, a scheme of arrangement is a compromise or arrangement between a company and its creditors or a class of creditors. It can be forced upon dissenting creditors provided the scheme is approved by 75 per cent in value and 50 per cent in number of those creditors who vote (failure to vote is taken as a vote for the scheme).   The proposed Opes Prime scheme, which the corporate regulator has agreed to facilitate, would involve consideration of a settlement proposal for the former clients from third parties -- the stockbroker's financiers ANZ and Merrill Lynch.   Moreover, it involves settling not only claims by Opes Prime against the financiers, but also settlement of claims against the financiers by former clients of Opes Prime and, for good measure, the non-pursuit by ASIC of two potential legal claims -- a claim for compensation due to an alleged contravention of the managed investment provisions of the Corporations Act by Opes Prime and alleged involvement in the contravention by ANZ and Merrill Lynch, and a potential civil penalty and compensatory action for breach of directors' duties by the Opes Prime directors and ANZ's alleged involvement in the breach.   The Opes Prime collapse has already spawned two class actions -- one by the litigation funder IMF against Opes Prime and ANZ, seeking up to $175 million, and the other by law firm Slater &amp; Gordon, against Opes Prime, ANZ and Merrill Lynch, seeking up to $100 million. There are also some individual legal actions on foot.   The clients who have signed up to the class actions, and thereby incurred some costs, are not pursuing the financiers in their capacity as creditors of Opes Prime; if anything, they may be contingent creditors of the financiers.   Schemes can be part of transactions which depend on third parties contracting to do things. An example is in takeover-type shareholder schemes in which the acquiring company is not a party to the scheme but it provides the consideration for the acquisition and cancellation of the target company shares.   So the proposed creditors' scheme would probably involve side arrangements to bind third parties, such as the financiers, the former clients who have claims against those financiers, and ASIC's releases of ANZ and Merrill Lynch from its potential legal claims. But there are difficulties with the proposed creditors' scheme. One is that is it would usurp the rights of third parties to have recourse to the courts, effectively replacing the normal liquidation process under which creditors settle or pursue their claims through litigation.   And there is the question of the central purpose of the scheme. Is it to effect a compromise between Opes Prime or its creditors or is it really to provide the opportunity to the bankers, which they would otherwise never have, to bind to settlement parties who have claims against the bankers which they want to pursue rather than settle? If it is the latter then arguably it is not genuinely a creditors' scheme and should be rejected by the court.   ASIC, the liquidator and the bankers presumably are confident that the creditors' scheme will hold up legally, but until recently the liquidator's counsel Tony Troiani of Mallesons appeared to have doubts. He told a creditors meeting last October that the banks wanted a holistic solution -- to reach agreement with the liquidator on a settlement and provide an amount on account of other claims if there are releases from the whole investor body. But Troiani considered that 'cannot be achieved' under a deed of company arrangement, a scheme of arrangement or any other way. He said the only way for damages claims to be settled with the banks was the provision of release from individual creditors.   ASIC encouraged mediation which led to the settlement proposal, in order to recover compensation for former Opes Prime clients, without the need for costly and time-consuming litigation and multiple actions, which, of itself, is a worthwhile objective.   But the proposal is by no means a done deal. It requires ASIC being satisfied with the content of the scheme documentation, Opes Prime creditors (not just former clients) voting in favour and approval of the scheme by the court; none of those factors can be assured.   ASIC and the court would need to be satisfied the creditors are provided with all the information they need in order to make an informed decision whether to vote in favour of the settlement.   That is essential because the scheme envisages taking away the rights of some creditors who may object to the proposal but don't have the numbers to defeat it.   Given that there is already litigation on foot, it's strongly arguable that the information that would seem to be required includes the documentation and legal advice as to the strength of the liquidator's claims against ANZ and Merrill Lynch, the existence and strength of any professional indemnity insurance policies taken out by Opes Prime, the strength of the clients' own claims against ANZ and Merrill Lynch and the strength of ASIC's potential actions against ANZ and Merrill Lynch.   Normally, parties wouldn't be entitled to such information but would have to take their chances in court.   But this isn't a normal situation. Arguably the information referred to is required because parties are being asked to give up their own claims in favour of a settlement and in order to judge whether they should do so they need to have sufficient information to enable them to decide whether to vote for the scheme or to pursue their claims. It's possible the court would see it that way.   It's also possible the court would decide that the interests of some creditors are sufficiently different from others that they should treated as separate classes of creditors.   For example, while all former clients would receive payment under the settlement, those who have taken individual action would also give up property (the ability to pursue their claims) and those who are party to the class actions would give up property and be liable to pay commission to the funds of the action. Ironically, that would mean the clients who have done the least would effectively receive the most.   If the court decided there were separate classes of creditors, the requisite majority vote would be needed for each class. That would considerably complicate the chances of obtaining creditor approval.   As it is, the clients who are parties to the class action have the ability to vote down the scheme.   Total creditors' claims are around $640 million, which means it can be defeated if creditors to the value of more than $160 million (25 per cent) vote against it. If successful, the class-action litigants would receive far more, after costs, than the 40c in the dollar promised under the settlement. Between them the class-action litigants are seeking $275 million, or more than 40 per cent of total claims, which would mean they hold the key.   Meanwhile Justice Ray Finkelstein made some remarks yesterday that suggest it may not be all plain sailing for the scheme.   A case brought by former Opes Prime client Paul Choiselat's Beconwood Securities, seeking to reclaim stock from ANZ, was scheduled to get under way yesterday in the Federal Court.   However, the liquidiator's counsel sought adjournment of the case until the scheme documents could be prepared and voted upon, revealing that the scheme was conditional on adjournment of the case. That caused Finkelstein to muse whether that was potential contempt of court, but he did adjourn the case.   He also queried whether people who didn't vote could be required to indemnify the bankers, another matter which must be in the agreement but has not as yet been disclosed, let alone explained.   Finkelstein also wondered whether the appropriate way to achieve what was wanted was a scheme with the bank, which would be calculated to cause apoplexy at ANZ.   This issue has a long way to run before it is resolved. It would not surprise if ultimately it was resolved in the normal way, either by settlement or litigation through the courts.   bfrith@acenet.com.au 
