By Mark Bendeich SYDNEY, March 6 (Reuters) - The Australian government is lobbying local banks to cut fees, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said on Friday, after a report found they were charging some of the rich world's highest banking costs at a time of economic crisis. Rudd, whose government has guaranteed the deposits and wholesale funding of Australia's banks, said he and the Treasurer, Wayne Swan, had recently expressed their concern in talks with local bank executives about high fees and charges. 'Absolutely. The Treasurer and I have met again with the banks in recent weeks and we have raised expressly the question of bank fees and charges,' Rudd said in a radio interview. 'We will continue on this because everyone out there... is facing a really tough time and we don't want to see anyone adding to this burden by unnecessary charges,' he added. The report, released by Fujitsu Consulting on Thursday, said Australian households paid about 22 percent more in bank fees than households in Britain and 11 percent more than American households, partly because of weakening bank competition. The report estimates Australian banks -- dominated by the four majors, National Australia Bank, Commonwealth Bank , Westpac and ANZ -- will draw about A$5.25 billion ($3.36 billion) in fees from households this year. It said the big four banks could continue to lift bank fees and grow interest margins this year as they gobbled up market share surrendered by weaker non-bank lenders. BANKS ON DEFENSIVE The Australian Bankers' Association (ABA), representing the banks, said it did not agree with the findings. 'ABA research shows Australia's bank fees rank about mid range compared to other overseas countries, and students, pensioners and low income customers access some of the least expensive banking services in the world,' said David Bell, Chief Executive of ABA. But Australian banking lacks intense competition, partly because the four major banks are forbidden from taking each other over by law. Even the competition regulator said this week that the sector bore some hallmarks of a 'comfortable oligopoly'. The Reserve Bank recently imposed a reform on ATM fees, requiring the banks to inform customers of ATM charges when withdrawing at ATM's not belonging to their bank. 'Australian banking is very competitive...our fees are competitively priced when you have a look at other countries,' a spokesman for No. 4 lender ANZ said, adding the bank was constantly reviewing its pricing. Australian banks have weathered the global credit crunch better than U.S.  and European peers, largely because they are not heavily exposed to subprime debt and because job losses have yet to have a real impact on local households. But the slowing global economy and difficulties faced by large corporate borrowers are raising bad debts and curbing lending growth, putting pressure on profits. On Friday, Australian regional lender Bank of Queensland Ltd said it would cut 150 positions, or about 10 percent of its staff, by the end of March. (Additional reporting by Mette Fraende; Editing by Jean Yoon) ($1=1.565 Australian Dollar) Keywords: AUSTRALIA BANKS/RUDD (mark.bendeich@thomsonreuters.com; +612 9373 1817; mark.bendeich.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
