 OVER the course of the past three years Anglo American lost its status as one of the top investments in the resources sector. Measured in terms of market value, it fell from the world's third-largest mining operation to only 10th. The group suspended its payment of dividends, thereby also losing its status as a blue-chip share.  The user-generated Internet encyclopaedia Wikipedia says: 'A blue-chip stock is the stock of a well-established company having stable earnings and no extensive liabilities. Most blue chip stocks pay regular dividends, even when business is faring worse than usual.' Anglo no longer complies with any of those three requirements. Admittedly, it recorded a good profit of $5bn in its financial year to end-December 2008. That's only 10% less than in 2007 and could therefore still be called a stable profit.  However, the problem is its prospects for this year and even the next.   Most blue-chip stocks pay regular dividends In his criticism of investments in resources shares, Marcus Padley, an asset manager in Australia - a far larger producer of resources than South Africa - says the CEO of a resources group can't help investors with guidance about future profit, as is possible with industrial or commercial companies. Padley says: 'They know they don't know what the oil price, copper price, nickel price, coal price or iron price is going to be between now and then. It would be reckless to give guidance. So they don't give it.' And in her presentation of Anglo's prospects for the next year or two, CEO Cynthia Carroll didn't try to predict profits. Instead, she made the following almost blood-curdling introduction to prospects for 2009/2010: 'It's simply impossible to overstate the breadth and severity of the current downturn.' Impossible to overstate? Then it would probably also not be unrealistic to forecast the company's profit for 2009 could be halved - or could even disappear - is the cynical view of a few analysts who, like Padley, are prepared to face up to the risks of investing in resources shares.   Click Here to subscribe to our daily newsletter Investors must remember resources producers - regardless of whether they're diversified or have a single product - are in fact at the mercy of prices and volumes - they're the so-called 'price and volume takers'. That means no single producer can influence the price of and demand for copper or nickel or iron ore or whatever.   That's why resources producers are at the mercy of the traditional - only - three-point plan. And that's the only thing Carroll could offer Anglo's uneasy investors. It's simple:   * Cut production.   * Cut capital spending - in this case, by around 50%.   * Reduce the head count. In Anglo's case by 10% - a massive 9,000 people.   The three-point plan helps to cut costs, may save cash but does nothing for income. It's at best a survival plan.   Measured in terms of the quality of its profit, Anglo is no longer a blue-chip.   Anglo's liabilities  Wikipedia's second requirement hints clearly at cash flow. 'No extensive liabilities' and, along with that, positive operating cash flows are even more important than profit for many an investor in the current highly uncertain economic environment. Here, too, Anglo doesn't look as healthy as it did a year ago. Net debt increased from $5,2bn to $11bn over the past year. Its debt:equity ratio weakened from 20% to 37.8%.   In her presentation of Anglo's results and prospects Carroll pointed out the group has financing facilities of $19bn in place and that there won't be any unmanageable pressure on cash reserves. Some of the world's big banks - such as CitiGroup and Bank of America - said the same thing not long ago.   Nor does Anglo's $11bn debt look very appealing, especially bearing in mind that over the past four years it spent nearly the same amount on buying back its own shares - shares bought at record prices and whose value has now fallen by between 50% and 70%. That sort of thing doesn't impress investors and funders.  But let's return to the definition of a blue-chip share and no extensive liabilities. Its $11bn debt is perhaps not too excessive but is fairly substantial when measured against the group's total market capitalisation of just under $20bn and last year's good profit of $5bn, which can't be repeated. And remember - in the words of the group's CEO - it's 'impossible to overstate the severity of the current downturn'. Not nice reading and certainly not good enough to merit the status of a blue-chip share.   No dividend  The final requirement for a blue-chip is even more fatal for Anglo American. 'Most blue-chip stocks pay regular dividends, even when business is faring worse than usual.' The decision by Anglo's board not to declare and pay a final dividend for the financial year to 31 December 2008 is quite a shock for many shareholders.   For its 2007 financial year a final dividend of US$0.86/share was declared. Last year, Anglo's interim dividend for the six months to June 2008 was increased from $0.38 to $0.44. That means for the 12 months to June 2008 a total dividend of $1.30/share - or around R13/share at the current exchange rate - was declared and paid. That puts Anglo's shares on a historical dividend yield of more than 8%.  Until as recently as early August last year things still looked fine: but now that's a historical - a very historical - dividend yield.   A board knows a company's dividend policy isn't something to be tampered with without good reason, even if times are bad. Naspers (Finweek's parent company) is an example of a company that once paid a dividend from reserves when profits were down rather than cutting shareholders' income.   Anglo's decision not to declare a final dividend - last year's $0.86 dividend cost it around $1,15bn - perhaps tells more about its poor cash situation than the board is currently willing to reveal.  Carroll says the group has credit facilities of $19bn, of which $11bn was used at end-December 2008. It may be better for Anglo's survival rather to declare no dividend and protect its debt position.   The warning by Carroll - that it's impossible to overstate the breadth and severity of the current downturn - should serve as a warning to investors that Anglo American won't necessarily resume its regular payment of dividends any time soon. Anglo certainly no longer qualifies as a blue-chip share on the strength of regular dividend payments.   Management concerns  Two more informal requirements a company must comply with to merit the status of a blue-chip are certainly the quality of its management and the industry in which it operates.   Of course, it's always easier to criticise management in retrospect. However, investors are quite right to wonder why Anglo's cash position weakened so drastically in the midst of a super cycle in commodity prices. Did the group and French financial director Ren Mdori merely become so blas and progressive that management no longer focused on cash flow? The $11bn buyback of their own shares over the past four years and its current $11bn debt also show that at the top of the cycle Anglo bought shares with borrowed money. That's not the kind of thing the management of a blue-chip share does.   Finally, regarding resources, Padley recently said that with investments in resources shares 'You can't sit and forget. You have to sit and watch like a hawk. Resources stocks are unreliable, volatile and risky, with commodity bear markets more common than equity bear markets.' Nearly every investor in shares in SA, directly or indirectly via a pension fund or annuity, has an exposure of 5% to 10% to Anglo American. Anglo is still - measured in terms of market cap - the third- or fourth-largest company on the JSE. Institutional investors who try to track the Top 40 or the all-share index must certainly still retain the appropriate investment in Anglo.   F  For private investors, the advice is simple: even at its current low price of R150/share cash is better than Anglo. If you still insist on exposure to resources, BHP Billiton is a better option. 
