WASHINGTON/NEW YORK, March 6 (Reuters) - Derivatives exchange operator IntercontinentalExchange  (nyse: ICE -  news  -  people ) said on Friday it would begin clearing U.S. credit derivatives on Monday after it became the second entity to receive full regulatory approval to act as a clearinghouse.  The Securities and Exchange Commission approved conditional exemptions to allow ICE US Trust LLC, the exchange operator's New York-based trust company, to provide central counterparty services for credit default swaps, known as CDS.  ICE's proposal for the $27 trillion over-the-counter market is one of several industry proposals that could satisfy the government's goals for forming central counterparties and increasing transparency in the market for CDS, which are contracts that insure against the default of debt issuers.  The private and interconnected nature of the CDS market has been blamed for exacerbating the global credit crisis, including the unwinding of positions held by U.S. insurance giant American International Group  (nyse: AIG -  news  -  people ), a major issuer of CDS.  'It is critical that we bring increased transparency to credit default swaps by developing efficient and effective oversight of credit default swap clearing agencies,' SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said in a statement.  In December, the SEC approved Anglo-French clearinghouse LCH.Clearnet to begin operating as a U.S. CDS clearinghouse. Analysts also expect the SEC to soon approve a clearing proposal by Chicago-based derivatives exchange CME Group Inc .  'We believe that our SEC approval is imminent,' said CME spokesman Allan Schoenberg.  ICE operates futures exchanges and over-the-counter markets for commodities and derivatives products. It received CDS approval from the U.S. Federal Reserve earlier this week, and said in a statement on Friday it would begin processing and clearing index-based CDS March 9.  It will first clear North American Markit CDX indexes, and then 'liquid single-name CDS in the following months,' ICE said.  'ICE Trust has been designed to further enhance well-functioning CDS markets by reducing counterparty and systemic risks, and increasing transparency and capital efficiency in the CDS markets,' ICE Chief Executive Jeffrey Sprecher said in a statement.  (Editing by Bernard Orr) Keywords: SEC CDS  (rachelle.younglai@thomsonreuters.com; +1 202 898 8411)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
