CONCERN is mounting in the business community about a margin grab by the nation's major banks from corporate customers.  While banks characterise the process as 'repricing for (increased) risk' or higher funding costs, businesses and larger corporates are wincing at the inflated margins they have to pay when their debts fall due for rollover. 'Anything can trigger a re-pricing -- it doesn't have to be a rollover,' one prominent company chairman told The Australian yesterday. 'The banks are looking for any opportunity to reprice, so it could be the most minor breach of a covenant. And they're being very heavy-handed in the way they go about it. It all started about six months ago but it's really picked up this year.' Another senior company director associated with a food manufacturing business, which increased its profit last year, said the margin over a benchmark lending rate charged to the company had increased between threefold and fourfold.   The majors were also rationing credit, taking away unused facilities, charging higher fees and introducing extra layers to the risk assessment process, causing delays. 'Businesses can't get the funding they need. It's drying up fast,' the company director said.   The concern is intensifying as Small Business Minister Craig Emerson hosts a summit tomorrow involving small business organisations and the banks.   It aims to get to the bottom of the funding issue.   Dr Emerson said yesterday the summit would give the banks the opportunity to stand up in front of small business organisations and 'explain and seek to justify their lending practices'. The Australian reported yesterday that ANZ chief executive Mike Smith had told about 100 big customers at a board dinner early last week that business lending margins would expand for the foreseeable future.   This followed the assessment by former Westpac chief David Morgan last Friday that the Big Four would emerge from the financial crisis with huge enhanced pricing power, as foreign banks retreated to their domestic markets and second-tier lenders disappeared. A spokeswoman for National Australia Bank, which is dominant in the business lending market with a 20 per cent market share, said the bank was re-pricing for risk to reflect the deteriorating economy and a higher probability of bad and doubtful debts.   She pointed to recent comments by NAB's head of business and private banking Joseph Healy that repricing was less than half-done. 'There are a lot of borrowings that were taken out two or three years ago and are not due for refinancing until later this year or next year,' Mr Healy told The Sheet online banking newsletter. 'These borrowings are locked in at the pricing of two or three years ago. As they come up for refinancing, they will be priced at the current market.' Directors to whom The Australian spoke yesterday said that in their experience NAB and Westpac had been the more reasonable banks in negotiations, with ANZ and Commonwealth Bank tougher to deal with. 'ANZ keeps talking about its risk capital allocation and how they can't afford your business or they have to scale it back,' one businessman said. 
