Don't worry. My cousin is New York F.B.I agent (senior Fraud Investigator. He work for the bank ABN AMRO, Bank of America etc.JOB: Clean Money, Dirty Money, Corruption and Money Laundering in the USA. -------------------------- My investigation has just begun. ------------------- You can read more about: FBI investigate S.Garison 20.10.08 15:48 Possible accusations surrounding CEO Mr. Reda and Seamless Wi-Fi, Inc A preliminary research conducted with respect to Mr. Reda and Seamless Wi-Fi, Inc revealed several inappropriate facts about Mr. Reda and the Seamless Wi-Fi, Inc Company. Based on the company&amp;#700;s address lookup, the search revealed the address belongs to an individual based out of Nevada by the name of Shayne Warnick. For the company this size and apparently significant growth in their business, it is highly unusual that a company would have a possible residence address, especially of an individual who does not appear to be associated with the company. With respect to Mr. Reda, he appears to be one of the pro-long and spectacular scammers of time. Mr. Reda appears to have few companies that he runs to cover up for few products Seamless produces in order for him to be able to scam people. After conducting search on www.slwf.net, it was determined that this website is registered via godaddy.com which is known to be one of the best registrants for illegal and falsified companies or bogus businesses. In addition to all these specific findings with regard to Mr. Reda, it was also determined that many others such as you (shareholders) write many accusations about Mr. Reda and Seamless company with regard to negatively presenting their products and possibly scamming prospective shareholders or brokers. Lastly, Seamless Wi-Fi, Inc, although registered with SEC, it does not appear to be registered as a corporation to conduct business in the state of Nevada. However, the company appears to be registered in the state of Delaware. With regard to Delaware state, it is the state where many potential scammers, shady business owners and illegally run businesses are registering because the state laws do not require detailed paperwork with respect to the registrants. Therefore, many of them gear towards registering in the state of Delaware. Based on this research, it is possible that Mr. Reda registered his bogus companies or businesses in the state of Delaware to cover himself and intrude as many shareholder or brokers as possible. Finally, those of us who work to combat scams, fraud, and other economic crimes with respect to bogus businesses and illegally ran companies, find that many of them are registered in the state of Delaware and therefore suspect that those companies or businesses do not appear to be legitimate. Best regards,
