VISTA - A woman whose boyfriend confessed to strangling her 74-year-old grandmother in the victim's apartment in Fallbrook pleaded not guilty Wednesday to being an accessory after the murder and stealing about $70,000 from the victim's bank accounts.   Amy Jo Mitchell, 33, faces up to seven years and four months in prison if convicted, said Deputy District Attorney Keith Watanabe.   Vista Superior Court Judge Adrienne Orfield ordered Mitchell held on $500,000 bail pending a Feb. 2 review hearing.   A preliminary hearing was set for Feb. 4.   Watanabe said Mitchell and her boyfriend, 38-year-old Jeff Nolen, had a domestic violence incident that was falsely reported to the California Highway Patrol last Aug. 23. During an argument, Nolen drove away with Mitchell hanging onto the hood of his vehicle, causing her to fall off and seriously injure her hip, the prosecutor said.   Mitchell went to a hospital and reported she had been struck by a vehicle while getting mail from her mailbox, Watanabe said. He said the defendant filed a false police report, claiming her injuries were from a hit-and-run.   Mitchell told her grandmother, Shirley Beggs, the truth about what happened and the defendant believed her relative called Child Protective Services about the matter, which launched a CPS investigation against Mitchell and Nolen, the prosecutor said.   Beggs was last seen alive last Aug. 29.   Mitchell said Nolen came home early on Aug. 30, sweating and out of breath.   On Sept. 3, Nolen called his stepfather and told him 'I (expletive) up. I killed somebody, I killed Amy's grandmother,' according to Watanabe.   Beggs' decomposing body was found the next day in her apartment, stuffed into a dresser that was lying on its side and taped shut with masking tape.   On Sept. 5, Nolen's body was found inside his car in Riverside County. He apparently committed suicide.   Mitchell told homicide detectives that she should have known that her grandmother was dead in her apartment, according to Watanabe.   On Sept. 3, Mitchell withdrew $500 from her joint account with her grandmother, the prosecutor alleged.   Later that day, the defendant tried to obtain a $60,937 cashier's check from her grandmother's account, using a Power of Attorney previously obtained from the victim, but the bank mistakenly made the check out to Beggs, Watanabe said.   That same day, Mitchell also entered a Pacific Western Bank in Fallbrook and cashed a check dated Aug. 29 from Beggs to the defendant for $9,310, Watanabe said.   A few minutes later, Mitchell went back to Bank of America to have it correct the payee on the cashier's check, and it was made payable to the defendant, the prosecutor said.   Besides accessory after murder, Mitchell is charged with 10 counts of elder theft, filing a false police report, possession of methamphetamine, possession of marijuana and possession of a smoking pipe.   Watanabe said there is no physical evidence to prove that Mitchell committed the murder or participated in the killing, only that she knew about it after the fact and allegedly prevented police from finding her grandmother's body. 
