WASHINGTON -- Federal housing officials plan to break ground Wednesday on the first phase of a new mixed-income community to replace the C.J. Peete public housing development in Central City.   It's the second ground-breaking in the federal government's plan to reformulate public housing in New Orleans with the replacement of the 'Big Four' public housing developments. 'This is very exciting for us, especially given all the challenges we faced,' Housing and Urban Development Secretary Steve Preston said Monday.   Preston said he had hoped to break ground for all four mixed-use communities by the end of 2008. But he said that it took longer to put the final financing in place given the collapse of the tax-credit market during the recent economic downturn and the departure of a key investor for the C.J. Peete redevelopment.   The former investor was replaced by New York investment bank Goldman Sachs. While Preston declined to name the former tax-credit investor, a commitment letter submitted to the Louisiana Housing Finance Agency listed it as AIG Sun-America Affordable Housing Partners. The floundering insurance giant AIG was targeted in last fall's Federal Reserve financial bailout measure.   Preston predicted that ground-breaking for infrastructure improvements needed for the redevelopment of the B.W. Cooper complex would occur before President Bush leaves office Jan. 20. However, that project still needs a tax-credit investor before residential units can be built.   Ground breaking for the replacement of the Lafitte public housing development should occur in the next 30 days, Preston said. The HUD executive broke ground last month on construction of the Columbia Citi Residences at Bayou District, which is replacing the St. Bernard development.   Preston said he's hopeful that the replacements for the four housing complexes can be readied for at least partial occupancy by the end of 2010 to comply with the current deadline for the Gulf Opportunity Zone low-income housing tax credits approved after Hurricane Katrina. He said he'll make a recommendation to the incoming Obama administration and Congress on whether that deadline should be extended.   In an interview last month, Preston said it might be a good idea to wait several months to see if the developments can be ready for at least partial occupancy, as required by the tax credit legislation. Government officials should avoid providing incentives for further delays in their ambitious plan for post-Katrina housing in New Orleans, he said in the interview.   C.J. Peete is to be redeveloped in two phases. The first calls for 460 units of two- and three-story buildings, using traditional Louisiana architecture. Plans call for 193 public housing units, 144 units that can be rented with federal housing vouchers and 123 market-rate units. The second phase calls for 50 single-family affordable and market-rate homes that will be built in other areas of Central City. The first phase is budgeted at about $172 million, with $27 million coming from Louisiana's share of federal community development block grants, $1.9 million in bonds, $16.2 million in HUD Hope VI money, $66.9 million from the Housing Authority of New Orleans, $56 million in tax credit equity and $4.3 million in foundation and private money.   Some advocates for the poor have said the federal government isn't providing enough public housing units to replace those being lost at the Big Four complexes. But Preston and other federal housing officials said that it was critical for post-Katrina New Orleans and low-income residents that poor people not be concentrated in traditional public housing units but placed in mixed-income communities that have the support services they need.   . . . . . . .   Staff writer Katy Reckdahl contributed to this report.Bruce Alpert can be reached at balpert@timespicayune.com or 202.383.7861. 
