The Obama inauguration-polooza continues, our own Kenny Yum has all the latest that's fit to blog (and he will be live-blogging tomorrow's big ceremony, much like he did at yesterday's Lincoln Memorial shindig). Meanwhile, a poll reveals that Canadians may have a big-time crush on Obama the man, but they aren't so hot on his policies:  Respondents were more guarded in their expectations of what Mr. Obama could accomplish in his first year dealing with the major challenges confronting him, saying he would have a 'medium impact.'  Some 49% said he would have a medium impact getting the economy back on track, while 47% predicted a medium impact helping struggling automakers, and 45% said he would have the same impact addressing global warming.  As for the Middle East crisis, 36% of respondents predicted he would have a medium impact on the peace process.  Speaking of which, the cleanup is beginning in Gaza, even as Israeli tanks are still rolling out of the battered Palestinian enclave. Israel and Hamas separately declared ceasefires on Sunday, to the relief of Western powers that, while publicly sympathetic to the Jewish state's security concerns, were alarmed by the mounting humanitarian toll in the impoverished territory. Columnist Matthew Fisher is calling this one a draw, so far.  And for NFL fans, your Super Bowl matchup is set:  Steelers return to Super Bowl stage ...  where they'll face the upstart Cardinals.  Let the two-week-long hypefest begin.  The roundup  680News Toronto: Up to 3-million to attend Obama's swearing-in  CKNW Vancouver: A fire early Sunday morning has closed the Patullo Bridge for the next four to six weeks while the span is repaired  CJOB Winnipeg: Fire crews fighting blaze at Chicken Delight  CJAD Montreal: This Blue Monday may be bluer than usual: Economic crisis at play  Globe: Foes pursue stable peace as Gaza falls quiet  CBC: Canadians feel the love for Obama, but are lukewarm to his plans: poll  Toronto Star: Inauguration 'stuff of dreams'  BBC: Scale of Gaza destruction emerges  New York Times: More Joining American Military as Jobs Dwindle  Washington Post: Jamming on Mall To Cheer Obama  CNN: Most blacks say MLK's vision fulfilled, poll finds  Marketwatch: What Obama should say  Financial Times: Obama team to prioritise credit flow  Wall Street Journal: U.K. Expands Bank Rescue Plan  Toronto Sun: Liberals broaden leadership consultation  Ottawa Sun: Talk cheap, tax hike not  Edmonton Sun: 'He has no enemies'  Calgary Sun: Teen couple killed in house fire  Winnipeg Sun: Crime rates down  Canada.com: RCMP to create anti-terror force in Alta.  Victoria Times Colonist: B.C. Ferries cuts corporate jobs: source  Vancouver Sun: Commuters face traffic hell due to Pattullo Bridge closure  Vancouver Province: Vancouver's Olympic bailout bill passes  Edmonton Journal: Oilers win 6-3 over Phoenix  Calgary Herald: Family of Calgary hit-and-run victim pleas to driver: 'Turn yourself in'  Regina Leader-Post: Town mourns young man who froze to death  Saskatoon Star-Phoenix: Post-party cabs scarce  Windsor Star: Pupatello defends travel expenses  Ottawa Citizen: 'Get back to the table,' councillor tells transit union  Montreal Gazette: There's light at the end of the tunnel, AMT says  Drudge Report: 'ANYTHING POSSIBLE'  Google News: UN chief says Gaza ceasefire requires halt of Hamas fire, Israeli ...  No comments have been posted  Related Posts  January 16, 2009, 8:55 AM  News Roundup: Toronto blackout, pilot in river crash hailed by Shane Dingman  TAGS: News Roundup  January 15, 2009, 8:55 AM  Roundup: Surgery checklists could save lives, study finds; Israel apologizes to Ban by Kenny Yum  TAGS: News Roundup  January 13, 2009, 10:01 AM  Roundup: Israel, Hamas locked in fierce street battles; BMO buys AIG's Canadian life insurance unit by Kenny Yum  TAGS: News Roundup  January 12, 2009, 9:29 AM  Roundup: Israel sends reservists into battle; Dark horses ride to Golden Globes victory by Kenny Yum  TAGS: News Roundup  January 09, 2009, 8:47 AM  Roundup: Jobs swept away in recession's wake; thousands fill Toronto synagogue  by Kenny Yum  TAGS: News Roundup  
