cost $10m  15:36pm   Dollar closes at 8-week low  15:35pm   15:30pm   Sydney agency lands BankWest contract  14:51pm   Late rally boosts market into the black  14:46pm   FMG delivers $1bn half-year profit  14:09pm   Rio sells potash, Brazil iron ore assets  14:03pm   BHP workers may be redeployed to Pilbara  13:40pm   Red tape burden to be reduced: Buswell  13:11pm   Carnegie, Synergy in wave energy deal  Ausco Modular has opened a new 250-room accommodation village in Karratha, six months after construction started.  The announcement is below:  One of Australia's leading construction companies has delivered - literally - a new standard in accommodation for Western Australia's mining and resources sector.  Ausco Modular's revolutionary 250-room 'Kingfisher Stayover Village' in Karratha was officially opened today by the Minister for Regional Development, Brendon Grylls.  The village is unusual because its resort-style rooms and buildings were all constructed in Ausco Modular's factory in Perth, and delivered to the site for installation.  Ausco Modular West Australian Regional Manager James Rowdon said modular construction had allowed the company to respond quickly to an urgent need for accommodation in the Pilbara region. The Kingfisher Stayover Village had opened for its first guests just six months after construction began.  Mr Rowdon said Ausco Modular has created a resort-style community for the area's workers, with fittings and furnishings that set a new benchmark for quality in the sector.  'Just one year ago, this was an empty block of land, and now it's an operating village for 250 people,' Mr Rowdon said today at the 26,000 square metre site.  'The village is providing high-quality accommodation and resort-style leisure activities for workers in the mining and resources sector.  'The creation of the village is a real vote of confidence on the part of Ausco in the West Australian economy and the future of the Pilbara region.'  Mr Grylls said the Kingfisher Stayover Village was a template for the rapid creation of high-quality accommodation that could be followed in other regional areas of Western Australia.  'This is a highly innovative project that has the potential to be a blueprint for other mining communities in need of modular housing,' he said.  'Mining workers are the driving force behind our state's economic activity and after a long day they deserve to relax in a comfortable environment like the Kingfisher Stayover Village.'  Mr Rowdon said the Kingfisher Stayover Village had also delivered levels of efficiency, build quality and environmental sustainability that continue to extend the benchmark for remote living.  'Residences have been fitted out with first-class amenities and high quality furnishings, offering workers a level of comfort significantly superior to what they would have experienced before.  These include on-site entertainment and leisure facilities, gymnasium, pool, bar and catered meals.'  Mr Rowdon said the village had achieved impressive environmental results in both the construction and operational phases.  'Our designers went to great lengths to ensure the rooms were eco-friendly through the use of sustainable building materials, the recycling of construction waste and the implementation of advanced water re-use and energy saving technologies on site.  'Building the accommodation units in a factory and delivering them for installation on site also brings a range of environmental efficiencies compared with more traditional building practices.'  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
