At this time every year, changes occur on the board of directors at the Royal Oak Chamber of Commerce.  At the end of 2008 we lost two longtime board members, Jim Domanski of Pronto! and Susan Carter of GMAC Woodwardside, who together had 20 years of chamber board experience.  Our 2009 election resulted in four incumbents Ted Edginton of US Bank, Vonnie Miller of Stagecrafters, Mike Sophiea of Oak City Grille, and Dolores Zakrzewski of Benepro being re-elected to another term.  In addition, Jim Reinert of Reinert &amp; Company has joined the board this year. Leading the board is Craig Mangold of Holiday Market, taking over the reins as president for 2009, along with Christine Chubenko of What Webs We Weave serving as first vice president.  Sixteen local business people are dedicating their time for the betterment of business in Royal Oak. Why do they bother? Don't they have businesses, careers, jobs of their own to look after? The simple answer is because they care and they believe that they can make a difference.  The Chamber's mission statement states that we are 'dedicated to bringing business persons, civic groups, local government and citizens together to advance the economic, professional, cultural and civic welfare of the community.' How do we do that? By facilitating more than 50, yes 50, events every year designed to allow our members to connect with each other.  We hope that results in business. Sometimes that business connection is direct, as in the case where one of our local bankers found a new client at a Chamber Coffee. Sometimes it is indirect, when members who get to know one another learn that a friend or acquaintance is looking for a product or service that they sell. It takes time and it takes effort but it works.We also do it by providing cost-savings opportunities for our members in areas such as health care, office supplies, telephone, cable and cellular phone service. All items that most businesses use every day.  The other way we do it is by providing very cost-competitive ways for members to market their business. Where else can your business get listed in a directory that is distributed to every business and residence in Royal Oak, Huntington Woods and Pleasant Ridge 25,000 in all for about $200 a year? The answer is nowhere, we have checked.  For information about joining the Royal Oak Chamber of Commerce, call (248) 547-4000 and ask for Andrea Cowan.
