TAMPA - Hoping to boost his son's real estate development career, Outback Steakhouse co-founder Chris Sullivan hired an Odessa builder to mentor his son and help make his first major development project a success.  Now Sullivan is accusing the builder, Gunther Flaig, of misappropriating $1 million from his son's fledgling company, Palmcrest Homes of Tampa Bay, according to a lawsuit Sullivan filed in December in Hillsborough County Circuit Court.  In their lawsuit, Sullivan and his son, Alexander Sullivan, and business partner Adam Schoenbaum ask a judge to order Flaig to produce an accounting of the company's finances so they can determine what happened to the money.  Flaigdid not return a call to his cell phone Tuesday.  Alexander Sullivan and Schoenbaum spent several years assembling chunks of land in Oldsmar for a housing development, the lawsuit states. Chris Sullivan funded the land acquisition. The project and a second in Pasco County are still under development.  By September 2006, though, Chris Sullivan realized the scope of the Oldsmar project required an experienced hand. After an introduction by a local banker, Sullivan hired Flaig to mentor his son and guide the company's real estate deals to fruition. Flaig represented himself as a longtime builder and president of a development firm called Schickedanz Brothers West.  Sullivan kept a close watch on his son's development company and in August began noticing financial irregularities. Those irregularities are the subject of the lawsuit.  Among them:  Undisclosed and improper loans. According to the suit, Palmcrest Homes had nearly $15 million in credit available to it, provided by Bank of America and Sullivan.  Instead of tapping that money, Flaig secretly obtained loans worth at least $915,000 from his old employer, Schickedanz, and used the money to pay Palmcrest Homes' bills. Flaig and an associate then repaid Schickedanz using $1 million from Palmcrest Homes, the lawsuit states.  After Chris Sullivan discovered the undisclosed loans, Flaig and an associate tried to cover up their actions by destroying more than 3,000 e-mails, among other actions, the lawsuit states.  The Sullivans' attorney, Charles Harris of Trenam Kemker, said he doesn't know why Flaig would obtain loans from an unauthorized source rather than tapping the money available to Palmcrest Homes. The Sullivans and Schoenbaum want to know whether all the money was used for Palmcrest's business or if some was diverted for Flaig's personal use.  They accuse Flaig and an associate of conspiracy to commit fraud and other charges.  'It's unclear to us exactly what Mr. Flaig's intention was,' he said.  Reporter Michael Sasso can be reached at (813) 259-7865.  MORE FROM THIS CHANNEL   Deputies Say Females Left Trail Of Destruction   Brandon Congregation Mourns Loss Of Food Pantry Leader   Super Bowl Security Plan Includes Barriers, Searches, Closed Roads   Officials Looking For Tips On Fugitive Monkey's Location  TOPICS IN THIS ARTICLE  hillsborough county circuit court financial irregularities   outback steakhouse   west sullivan   son alexander   flaig   s real estate   lawsuit states   bank of america   land acquisition   founder chris   chris sullivan   fledgling company   development career   estate deals   oldsmar   close watch   housing development   pasco county   fruition  
