DALLAS, TEXAS: Jan. 12, 2009 -- Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (NYSE:ACS) today announced that it will provide Regence with Health Savings Account (HSA) administration services for its members in Idaho, Oregon, Utah and select counties of Washington. Regence members will be offered the ACS HSA Solution through its U.S. Bank custodian option.  With the addition of Regence, the largest health insurer in the Northwest/Intermountain region, ACS now offers the ACS HSA Solution to Blue Cross Blue Shield plans that serve approximately 72 million members in Washington, D.C. and in the following states: Alabama, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, and Wisconsin.  ACS was selected based on its expertise as the preeminent administrator of HSA services, said Cary Badger, vice president of Market Development for Regence. ACS proven platform will help provide our members with the superior level of service and quality they have come to expect from Regence and our product offerings.  According to Inside Consumer-Directed Care, an industry publication that tracks HSA data, the ACS HSA Solution ranks among the top HSA administrators in America. ACS currently manages more than 630,000 accounts from 30,000 employer groups. The company will provide Regence members with an array of services that includes HSA enrollment, funding, and ongoing account management.  Regence is the leading health plan in the Northwest and Intermountain region with three million members. We value their trust in selecting us and are committed to providing the highest quality of service, said Gregg Larson, ACS National HSA product leader. This new relationship furthers our position as the preferred solution to meet the needs of health plans nationally.  About ACS  ACS, a global FORTUNE 500 company with approximately 70,000 people supporting client operations reaching more than 100 countries, provides business process outsourcing and information technology solutions to world-class commercial and government clients. The company's Class A common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol 'ACS.'  Learn more about ACS at http://www.acs-inc.com.  
