A SYDNEY banker allegedly defrauded his employer of nearly $7 million through a series of 81 transactions over seven years, court documents have revealed.  Sung Kyu Chung, 40, from Ryde in Sydney's north-west, was charged with three counts of obtaining money by deception after NSW police were alerted to the disappearance of $6.8 million from the Korea Exchange Bank (KEB) last December.  The court papers allege Chung began transferring sums of money from the bank's accounts into his personal accounts in September 2001 - breaching his agreed duties'' which allowed him to transfer money outside of the bank for legitimate business reasons.  He allegedly started by writing himself a cheque for $7,500 which he banked into a personal account with the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  Between July 2003 and October 2008, Chung allegedly carried out 77 fraudulent transactions, in which police claim he transferred a total of $6,011,566 from the bank's Westpac account into his personal ANZ account.  He is also charged with transferring a further $787,051 over three transactions from the bank's Westpac account into his own Citibank account in May 2006.  Chung was arrested and charged by police at The Rocks in December following an investigation into the alleged fraud.  He was released under strict bail conditions including that he surrender his Korean passport, report to police three times a week and not approach any international points of departure.  Chung, represented by Legal Aid solicitor Tracy Stevens, did not enter a plea when he appeared, dressed in a dark suit and tie, in the Downing Centre Local Court today.  Deputy Registrar Paul Morgan said the case would probably be referred to the District Court, 'considering the amount of money involved.''  The matter was adjourned until March 5, when the Director of Public Prosecutions will decide whether to take over the case from the police.  The international merchant bank operates its Australian arm from offices in George Street, in Sydney's CBD.
