Fireman's Fund Insurance Company is now offering 'green' homeowner's insurance to consumers in the state of Minnesota. This is the first-ever admitted green insurance available to homeowners in the state.   Fireman's Fund (www.firemansfund.com/green) is setting a new standard in offering this innovative product to homeowners who currently own green homes or who want to upgrade their residences with green features after a loss using environmental safety and efficiency standards. If a home is destroyed, it can be rebuilt to green standards, certified as having Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design status (LEED(R), www.usgbc.org/leed). 'Green insurance policies that encourage consumers to build with conservation and efficiency in mind are exactly what Minnesota needs to meet our renewable energy goals,' said Glenn Wilson, Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Commerce. 'These investments will pay off for the homeowners every month for the life of the property.' 'We believe this is a trend-setting insurance solution for Minnesota homeowners who are interested in the many benefits of 'going green' at home,' said Donald Soss, Fireman's Fund Personal Insurance.   Fireman's Fund customers may purchase the green coverage for a nominal amount, starting at as little as $25 a year. In addition, homeowners whose residences are already green will be offered a five percent discount on this coverage, applied to the homeowner premium.   A green home uses less energy, water and natural resources, and creates less waste. Studies have shown that residents have better overall health and productivity as a result of reduced exposure to mold, mildew and indoor toxins. According to the National Center for Healthy Housing (www.centerforhealthyhousing.org), homeowners can expect substantial health gains by building green.   With this new coverage, homeowners will be able to rebuild and replace with green alternatives such as:   -- Energy Star(R)-rated appliances, lighting, electronic equipment and roofing / insulation   -- An Energy Star upgrade of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems   -- Forest Stewardship Council (www.fcsus.org) certified wood for millwork, ceilings, siding and framing, including bamboo flooring   -- Non-toxic, low odor paints and carpeting   -- Water-saving plumbing fixtures   -- Elimination of ozone-depleting refrigerants and fire extinguishing agents, replaced with environmentally friendly alternatives   -- Debris removed after damage to a home will be recycled and diverted from landfill   Fireman's Fund(R) was the first property and casualty insurance firm to offer green insurance to the U.S. commercial marketplace, introduced in fall 2006. Vegetated roofs, plumbing and electrical systems, commissioning and the costs for green recertification fees for previously certified buildings are all included coverages that fill the gaps in traditional insurance policies.   Fireman's Fund was recognized recently by the Environmental Defense Fund for its contributions to the green movement in a new report, 'Innovations Review 2008: Making Green the New Business As Usual' (www.edf.org/InnovationsReview). Fireman's Fund was the only insurer highlighted in the report that includes the latest trends and best practices that demonstrate how environmental sustainability efforts are creating new markets and providing competitive advantages. Fireman's Fund Insurance Company is a premier property and casualty insurance company providing personal and commercial insurance products nationwide. It is rated 'AA' by Standard &amp; Poor's Rating Services. Fireman's Fund is a member of the Allianz Group(R) (NYSE:AZ), one of the world's largest providers of insurance and financial services. For additional information, visit www.firemansfund.com.   (C) 2009 Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, Novato, CA 94998   SOURCE: Fireman's Fund Insurance Company   Fireman's Fund Janet Ruiz, 415-899-5381 jruiz@ffic.com 
