Did Sheriff Dick Meyers really expect to promote his son to one of the most powerful positions in the Sheriffs Department, give him a $20,000 raise and not hear anything about it?  In a 15-minute speech to the Winnebago County Board, delivered red-faced and indignant, Meyers last week defended his promotion of his son, Scott Meyers, to one of three newly created deputy chief spots. Meyers responded at the meeting after several board members criticized him.  After Meyers spoke, board members applauded.  We wonder what were they clapping about.  In this economy, especially, we dont feel similarly won over. We dont feel the guilt or the sympathy Meyers diatribe was supposed to elicit  like who would dare question a loyal public servant and loving father protecting his own qualified children?  We have the same questions as County Board members originally did, and we dont feel like they were answered.  The first concern is one of process. In the week leading up to Christmas, the Sheriffs Department had three deputy chiefs. In the week after Christmas, there were six. The promotions  Meyers son, Brad Fitz and Rocco Wagner  were done quietly. The chairman of the County Board executive committee said he didnt receive a notice, although there was a memo to the chairmans office.  The sheriff said it was the beginning of the New Year and that wider notification wasnt feasible. Several of us wish we could use that it-was-the-holidays-and-it-was-too-much-trouble excuse on our bosses.  County Board member Doug Aurand defended the sheriff, a fellow Democrat, saying the promotions come out of the sheriffs budget and he doesnt need to ask permission. Aurand called the objections micromanagement.  Hardly.  While the Sheriffs Department certainly has the latitude to spend its own money once the board approves the allocation, County Board members have the responsibility to give the department feedback. To let the sheriff know what the folks on the street think.  The street is not forgiving these days of raises, especially the kind paid for by taxpayers and slid in at the eleventh hour. Especially the $20K kind.  The base salary for a deputy chief is $102,619. With merit and tenure bonuses, the new deputy chiefs annual income will be between $111,000 and $113,000. Their previous position  sheriffs lieutenant  paid $86,872 in base salary.  Not bad, considering some county department heads didnt even get their raises last week, and more and more local people dont even have a job.  The unemployment rate for the region is expected to reach 11 percent for December, at least 3 percentage points higher than the national average.  Meyers said hes not making apologies to anyone about the promotions. To charges of nepotism, he says his son earned the promotions and had to go to the merit commission and wait on a list like anyone else. He challenged board members to find one year the department didnt come in under budget. He pointed to a recent heroin bust at Concord Commons that took 5 kilograms of heroin off the street and a bank robber his department helped nab.  He told board members if anyone had a question, to come to him for answers.  Sounds like intimidation. Only Clint Eastwood goes mano a mano with the sheriff.  In his defensiveness, Meyers hasnt made a good case for adding these positions in the first place. Its not a matter of whether the money is in the budget. Its a matter of whether the expense is justified.  How does having six deputy chiefs stack up to other county sheriffs departments? Were the positions catching up  or overkill?  Frank Gambino, Republican majority leader on the County Board, was right when he said even the appearance of impropriety discourages people about public service. Transparency has to be the No. 1 issue for all the elected officials, otherwise the public wont trust us.  Sheriff Meyers can get as mad as he wants, but that wont change the nature of trust: Trust is a delicate thing, best won with information freely shared, before the fact, not after. Thats even more imperative when your recent promotion is your sons.  
