Hot Air Affair lifts off Feb. 6-8  The 20th annual Hudson Hot Air Affair is coming to Hudson Feb. 6-8. The 'Roaring 20's' is the theme for this year's event, said balloon coordinator Carla Timmerman.  M&amp;I Bank-Hudson is again the major sponsor of the annual balloon rally and winter event and commissioned the commercial balloon banners for the occasion.  The M&amp;I balloon is owned and piloted by Dale Dommer, Ottumwa, Iowa, and the large blue and white M&amp;I banners can be seen from both sides of the 110,000-cubic-foot Cameron envelope. This is Dommer's fourth year at the Hudson Hot Air Affair.  'We're happy to be the Hudson Hot Air Affair corporate sponsor again this year,' said M&amp;I Bank-Hudson branch manager Lee Anderson. 'Our company and staff like the community event and enjoy being part of the winter celebration.'  This year's other commercial balloons are US Bank, Stillwater Balloons and ReMax North Central and ReMax Associates Plus Inc., the owner of the ReMax realty company in Hudson.  The Hot Air Affair is one of the largest winter hot air ballooning events in the country. Special shapes are Rubber Duckie and Biddles.  Get a complete list of activities and events on the Hudson Star-Observer Web site (www.hudsonstarobserver.com).  Published 11:32 Jan-29-09   TOP   A man who has been sentenced to 23 years in prison by a federal judge and 16 years by a Washington County, Minn., court has yet to face a string of felony charges in St. Croix County.  Daine Joseph Adam Linderman, 25, who listed a Circle Pines, Minn., address, faces six attempted homicide charges and six reckless endangerment charges among 15 felony counts filed in connection with an Aug. 24, 2007, incident in Hudson.  The St. Croix County District Attorney's office said Monday morning Linderman had not been extradited from Minnesota to face the Wisconsin charges.  Police attempted to arrest Linderman with a warrant at a Ward Avenue apartment building. An altercation ensued that included an exchange of gunfire with Hudson police.  Linderman led officers on a high-speed chase into Minnesota. He crashed near the Bungalow Inn and ran to the home of a Lakeland couple where he tried to steal their car. The homeowner was shot in a struggle with Linderman in the garage of his home where police made the arrest.  Linderman, who reportedly has served time in three Minnesota prisons, was also charged as a felon in possession of a firearm and fleeing an officer in St. Croix County.  He was convicted in Minneapolis federal court Dec. 22 of attempted carjacking, using a firearm in a crime of violence and as a felon in possession of firearms. A Washington County court convicted Linderman of burglary, assault and attempted kidnapping.  Published 13:35 Jan-29-09   TOP  
