Fulton Homes reassured customers Wednesday that the company would continue to honor its home warranties despite filing for bankruptcy protection.  The Tempe-based builder filed for reorganization Tuesday under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  Doug Fulton, who took up the mantle of chief executive officer recently from his father, company founder Ira Fulton, said that the bankruptcy filing was a way to improve the company's financial situation.  'We filed Chapter 11 reorganization in order to continue operating without tremendous bank interference,' Fulton, former president of Fulton Homes, said in a news release Wednesday.  Fulton Homes Sales Corp., which handles home sales and warranties, is a separate entity that was not included in the bankruptcy, he said.  The company that did file bankruptcy serves the function of buying land and building homes on it, Doug Fulton said.   Property values have declined sharply over the past two years, prompting some lending institutions to put pressure on commercial landowners to repay a portion of the debt incurred to buy and develop the land. 'Of the many lenders we use to finance land acquisition and development, a distinct minority has taken action against Fulton Homes due principally to the current valuation of our land holdings,' Doug Fulton said. Ira Fulton is one of the state's leading philanthropists, whose contributions to the community include $160 million in donations to Arizona State University.  Court documents show that Fulton Homes owes $100 million to $500 million to more than 100 individual creditors, including lender Bank of America.  The company's estimated assets are listed as $100 million to $500 million.   Fulton Homes has six months to draft a reorganization proposal and present it to creditors.  Companies that file for protection under Chapter 11 typically remain in operation while the court reviews creditor claims and resolves debt issues.  Though it's likely Fulton Homes will continue doing business, bankruptcy creates new challenges in securing credit to build homes and persuading consumers to buy them.  Fulton has 21 actively selling communities in the Valley, primarily in Gilbert, Chandler, Avondale, Queen Creek, Maricopa and Casa Grande.  It built more speculative homes than most builders of comparable size, building an inventory of completed houses that have been difficult to sell since the slump began.  Still, Doug Fulton said the company has been building homes in the Valley for more than 30 years and has the expertise to remain a fixture here. 'We look forward to emerging from Chapter 11 a stronger company,' he said. Reach the reporter at 602-444-8681.
