National risk management provider Avizent announced that John D'Alusio has been named Senior Vice President, Senior Claims Officer, overseeing the company's technical and operations divisions.  D'Alusio has over 30 years of experience as an insurance businessman with executive management positions in administration, field operations, and claim technical areas at companies such as Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Home Insurance Company, AIG, Zenith Insurance Company, HNC Software, Gould &amp;amp; Lamb, and Health Advocates/PMSI MSI MSA Services.  'We're extremely excited to have someone with John's experience and expertise on our team,' says Lori Daugherty, Avizent's President and CEO. 'He's passionate about this industry, he's innovative, he's forward-thinking. He's exactly what we need to help keep Avizent's incredible growth going strong for years to come.'  Over the course of his career, D'Alusio has given numerous presentations on cost containment, anti-fraud techniques, and new claims technology. He has also served on various advisory boards to WC industry vendors, and is considered an industry expert on Medicare Secondary Payer law.  'Avizent has truly set itself apart in this industry,' D'Alusio says. 'We provide a fully integrated model for claims and risk management, with superior technology, in-house expertise, and comprehensive services from claim intake to final settlement. What other companies outsource, we own and manage ourselves, so we have more control and can give our clients better results and better rates.'  A prolific writer, D'Alusio has had articles published in Business Insurance, Claims Magazine, National Underwriter, and Risk &amp;amp; Insurance Magazine. He has a BA degree from St. John's University, an MA from Montclair State University, and two professional insurance designations (Associate in Risk Management and Senior Claim Law Associate).  About Avizent  Avizent, based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the fastest growing national risk management providers of claims management, medical managed care, self-insured groups, alternative risk financing and RMIS software. The company employs nearly 800 associates throughout the United States. For additional information, visit the Avizent website at www.avizentrisk.com or call 888-646-9675.  SOURCE: Avizent  Avizent Tracy Mock, 847-543-1681 tmock@avizentrisk.com or Media Contact Joy Scott, 818-610-0270 joy@scottpublicrelations.com  
