         Hughes ready for tougher tests ahead      Manchester City manager Mark Hughes believes the UEFA Cup will get much tougher in the weeks ahead when the group stages begin.   However, the Welshman is relishing the challenge in Europe after his side defeated AC Omonia 2-1 at Eastlands on Thursday night, and 4-2 on aggregate.  Second-half goals from Elano and Shaun Wright-Phillips put City firmly in the driving seat, before substitute Rasheed Alabi grabbed a late consolation.  The draw takes place on Tuesday, and Hughes said: &amp;amp;quot;We want to be in Europe and are pleased to be through. We have number of games now and are looking forward to that.  &amp;amp;quot;We could do with a decent draw, but the clubs are strong. We will wait to see who comes out of the hat and plan accordingly.&amp;amp;quot;  Despite having a Barclays Premier League match against Liverpool at home on Sunday, Hughes opted to name a full-strength side.  The only absentee was central defender Richard Dunne, who has a hamstring problem. He was replaced by Tal Ben Haim.  Hughes said: &amp;amp;quot;My big players were key to getting the job done, but we did not put the tie to bed as early as I wanted it.  &amp;amp;quot;However, I was able to take some of them off in the second half - so they will be fit and well for Sunday. It is not a problem.&amp;amp;quot;  Elano&amp;#039;s goal was one to savour, after City had struggled to build on their 2-1 advantage from the first leg of this first-round tie.  Latching on to a crossfield pass in the 48th minute from Brazil team-mate Robinho, he lashed a shot into the corner to ease the home fans nerves.  Hughes is pleased at the way the partnership is developing.  &amp;amp;quot;Elano is coming into a bit of form,&amp;amp;quot; said the City boss.  &amp;amp;quot;He is playing on the left alongside Robinho, and they are working well together.  &amp;amp;quot;They already have a good understanding of each other, and that can only benefit us in the games to come.&amp;amp;quot;  Wright-Phillips got the crucial second seven minutes later, after skipping past two defenders with the kind of confidence that marks him down as an England candidate.  It was his fourth goal in his second spell at City, following his 9million move from Chelsea in August.  Hughes said: &amp;amp;quot;Shaun was a little bit frustrated at playing the wrong ball at the wrong time.  &amp;amp;quot;But he kept going. He gives us great energy and great pace down the right-hand side. His goal was just reward for his efforts.&amp;amp;quot;  Omonia coach Nedim Dudic said: &amp;amp;quot;I have to thank my players for the effort they put in. I think we have shown everyone in Europe we are getting better.  &amp;amp;quot;However, we have to accept we lost this tie in the first leg - when we were made to pay for our mistakes.&amp;amp;quot;       ESPNsoccernet                        
