US authorities have bailed out the teetering AIG insurance giant with a massive and unprecedented $106 billion rescue loan.The US Federal Reserve announced the $US85 billion ($106 billion) rescue loan to save insurance giant American International Group from bankruptcy amid fears of a catastrophic effect on financial markets.The deal is believed to be in exchange for a nearly 80 per cent stake in the company.All of AIG's assets would be pledged to secure the loan, according to US reports.News of the talks came after Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke went to Capitol Hill late Tuesday to meet with top leaders of Congress, the  reported. Shares in AIG, a company with $US1 trillion in assets and tentacles in many markets, went on a roller-coaster ride in Wall St trading on Tuesday, sliding 70 per cent at the open, swinging into positive and then closing down 21 per cent after a 60 per cent plunge a day earlier.AIG needs the loan to stave off collapse amid fears about the impact on Australian super and insurance.The financial crisis has prompted further panic on global markets and a flurry of reports about a last-minute rescue to avert a financial calamity. New York Governor David Paterson said AIG had one day to raise up to $US80 billion ($A100.78 billion) to stave off bankruptcy. I think they have a day ... we're in the moment right now as to whether or not they can put something together. I guess it would be $US75 billion ($A94.48 billion) to $US80 billion ($A100.78 billion),'' Paterson told CNBC television. In its first public statement since its shares went into a freefall on bankruptcy fears, AIG said its insurance, retirement and other financial services were operating normally. More than two million  members rely on AIG Australia for income protection and death cover. The company's general insurance arm also underwrites travel insurance for a string of corporate partners, including the ANZ, National Australia Bank, Jetstar and Diner's Club. AIG Australia is the underwriter for some of the nation's biggest super funds, including the Retail Employees Superannuation Trust which boasts 1.7 million members. Other super funds covered by AIG include Health Super, which has 200,000 nurses and other hospital workers, and the Woolworths Staff Superannuation Scheme. Concern has been mounting among these clients that the local AIG arm may become insolvent if the US parent is placed in liquidation. The US business has seen its Wall Street-listed shares slump by more than 80 per cent this year after it incurred big losses because of the US mortgage crisis. Business partners and clients yesterday sought assurances from AIG's Australian managers that the local entity would trade even if the US parent fell over. The managing director of AIG Life Australia, Stuart Harrison, yesterday said the local arm had sufficient reserves to meet its obligations. However, he could not guarantee the Australian business would survive if its US parent collapsed.'I want to assure customers and business partners that AIG Life in Australia operates as a completely separate legal entity within the stringent Australian regulatory regime,' he said last night. 'We continue to comply with regulations concerning capital adequacy and solvency. 'AIG Life in Australia has more than sufficient capital and reserves to meet our obligations to policyholders.' REST chief executive Damian Hill said his fund had been in contact with AIG since the problems of the US parent began to escalate last week. 'We have received assurances that AIG is solvent and can continue to meet its obligations to us as a policyholder,' he said. Health Super's chief operating officer Carol McKelson-Timmins said her fund was closely following events affecting AIG. 'We've certainly had a statement of assurance from them today,' she said. Jetstar spokesman Simon Westaway confirmed his company sold thousands of travel insurance policies underwritten by AIG each week. When asked whether overseas travellers flying with Jetstar in the next few weeks could be left high and dry on their travel insurance , Mr Westaway said: 'They (AIG) are a supplier to our airline and they have provided a level of comfort to us today as to their ability to meet their obligations,' he said. NAB confirmed it had been in contact with AIG. 'We are monitoring the situation closely,' said NAB spokeswoman Felicity Glennie Holmes. - with staff writers and AFP 
