The American financial scene was a roller coaster of bad news Monday:n The Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 500 points  more than 9 percent. It was its steepest drop since the day the stock market reopened after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.n Lehman Brothers, an investment bank that predates the Civil War and weathered the Great Depression, filed the largest bankruptcy in American history.n And Merrill Lynch, another storied bank, fled into the arms of Bank of America.But at least one big company, American International Group (AIG)  parent company of Evansville's American General Finance Corp.  received some good news: $20 billion worth.AIG, the largest U.S. insurer of assets, was allowed to use $20 billion of assets, held by its subsidiaries, to provide cash needed to stay in business.New York Gov. David Paterson, who allowed the loan, made the announcement. The move comes as AIG continues to review its operations and discuss alternatives with outside parties  reportedly including Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway  to improve its business amid concerns AIG could need up to $40 billion to shore up its balance sheet.The news follows a report late last week that the sale of American General Finance Corp., also known as American General Financial Services, a brand name, may be afoot.It was not known immediately how AIG's $20 billion loan to itself may affect the potential sale. Local officials could not be reached for comment.Late Monday, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's downgraded the long-term counterparty rating of AIG three notches to A-, citing 'reduced flexibility in meeting additional collateral needs and concerns over increasing residential mortgage-related losses.' Moody's Investors Services also downgraded AIG's long-term issuer ratings two notches to A2, while Fitch Ratings cut its long-term issuer default rating for AIG to A from AA-.All three of the new ratings still are considered investment grade.Local employeesAmerican General employs 1,400 people locally and 7,500 nationwide and makes home and auto loans.The local headquarters currently has a $35 million expansion project under construction on Northwest Second Street.Last month, MorEquity a subsidiary of American General Financial Services  terminated 17 employees in Evansville.Besides American General Finance, AIG's strategy may include the sale of several of its other businesses, including U.S. variable-annuity business and a 59 percent stake in reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings.Paterson asked New York state insurance regulators essentially to allow AIG to provide a bridge loan to itself.The governor also asked the head of New York's insurance department to talk with federal regulators about providing an additional bridge loan to AIG. 'AIG still remains financially sound,' Paterson said. The move will allow AIG to use those assets as collateral to borrow cash to fund its day-to-day operations, said Paterson.AIG has been battered over the past year by billions of dollars of losses tied to the deteriorating mortgage and credit markets. AIG worked with New York officials through the weekend to shore up capital after rating agencies threatened downgrades.AIG has said it is exploring all options to help bolster a balance sheet battered by a downturn in the credit and mortgage markets. Those losses over the past year have come amid a sharp increase in defaults among mortgages. Shares of AIG  once the world's most valuable insurer by market value  fell $5.82, or 47.9 percent, to $6.32 in afternoon trading Monday. They had been down as much as 71 percent to $3.50 before Paterson's comments.According to reports, New York-based AIG was seeking $40 billion in emergency funds  possibly from the Federal Reserve  to help the insurer avoid a credit rating downgrade, which would make it more expensive for AIG to raise money.AIG already has raised $20 billion in new capital this year.Also, the insurer was said to be in 'rescue' talks with Buffett. Berkshire Hathaway spokeswoman Jackie Wilson said Buffett was not available Monday to comment on the AIG-rescue reports. Typically, Berkshire doesn't comment on any deals before they are completed.AIG appears to be in a precarious position because of a potential downgrade to its credit ratings and how that would affect its portfolio of financial instruments known as credit default swaps. The swaps are essentially insurance coverage to protect investors against defaulting bonds or debt.For the three quarters that ended in June, AIG lost about $25 billion in the value of credit default swaps and about $15 billion on other investments, such as mortgage-backed securities, which are bonds backed by a pool of mortgages.As a seller of the swaps, investors go to AIG to insure bonds or debt they hold. As part of those swaps, AIG must maintain certain credit ratings. If AIG's ratings are cut, the insurer must put up more collateral or repay the contracts. 'The concern (with AIG) is the contractual effects' if ratings are cut, said Len Blum, managing director at investment bank Westwood Capital.n AP and The Wall Street Journal contributed to this report.
