 Man at the Market It is indeed very unfortunate that financial services giant American Inter-national Group (AIG) gots hit by the economic meltdown in the United States. This just shows the severity of this phenomenon that we in this country just read through the papers or learn through television news.The relevant question that should be asked since AIG has affiliates here is whether the investments made by our countrymen through those life or non-life insurance policies they secured from these AIG affiliates such as Philam Life, Philam General Insurance, PhilamCare and Philam Plans are still safe. To the uninitiated in the financial service industry, this question might frighten those with policies issued by any of the AIG affiliates.To the knowledgeable, however, this development should not cause any alarm. All AIG affiliates here are separate and distinct from the mother company. They have their own corporate existence that is governed by local laws. As such, they are literally insulated from the vagaries of the economic slowdown in the US.One friend even asked me bluntly if the resources of the AIG affiliates here will not be used to bail out the mother company. That question gave me a hearty laugh. First, how can the peso bail out the US dollar? Second, it clearly speaks of the person's lack of knowledge about the dynamics of the financial service industry.It should be noted that revenue generated out of the insurance sales, financial services or fund management activities of these AIG affiliates by law can't be brought out of the country. The best that the parent company can touch is part of the net profit generated by the operation of its affiliates here. Besides, these affiliates are mandated by law to set aside a portion of every sale they make here as trust fund to enable them to meet future obligations.The government, through the Insurance Commission, in the case of the insurance industry, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, in the case of the pre-need industry and the Bangko Sentral, in the case of fund management entities, are closely monitoring these companies. It is for this reason that there never had been any major collapse by any insurance company here.There were some problems encountered by some players in the pre-need industry here in the past, but this has been addressed already. The financial service industry is relatively safer. Even with regard to what portfolios insurance companies can invest their funds in are also being regulated and closely monitored by the government.Unknown to many people is the fact that the financial service industry is one of the biggest sources of funds availed of by the government in funding its various infrastructure projects. Everyone knows that the best debtor is the government for governments will never go bankrupt even if those in power cannot manage the fiscal affairs of the State prudently and more judiciously. Realistically, governments do not collapse financially. Government regulators can attest to the fact that all the AIG affiliates in the country are currently maintaining trust funds sufficient enough to meet outstanding obligations and more than enough compared to what these regulators have set as minimum. The investment portfolios where these AIG-affiliates place some of their funds are blue chips ones, meaning, very safe and very sound in terms of its yields.It is for this reason that the fear entertained by some clients of these AIG affiliates here should be dismissed for not having any basis at all, whatsoever. And this columnist knows whereof he speaks in this regard being in this industry for 10 years now. What had happened to the mother company is not a reason to be frightened. While it is a fact that the mother company is right now reeling from the economic meltdown in the US, the reason for this is not the fault of the mother company.It is just unfortunate that AIG got hit by this financial turmoil now gripping the financial service industry in the US. It just so happened that the Americans are so hard-up financially, hence, their inability to meet obligations, loans are not paid and mortgages are allowed to be foreclosed. Simply said, the financial service industry is having a hard time collecting and thus remain liquid. Not being liquid, they have nothing to plough back to the economy that the people can borrow, hence, their inability to sustain their business operation cycle. (jelbacon@yahoo.com for reactions) 
