Insurance industry officials and analysts say there's little for policyholders to worry about today. But they say they're watching the situation carefully.They're keeping a close eye, because the potential impact for insurance policyholders is significant.AIG is one of the top sellers of fixed annuities. Fixed annuities guarantee fixed payments to the buyer for a specified period of time, usually until death. AIG also ranks among the top writers of auto insurance, commercial insurance and life insurance.It led the nation in fixed annuities sold through banks, writing more than $5 billion in 2007. AIG also led in commercial insurance, writing $24 billion in policies in 2007.Here are the answers to some key questions about where AIG's insurance businesses stand and how it might affect you.Q: What is going to happen to the insurance businesses owned by AIG?A: The infusion of $85 billion into AIG offers financial stability so the company will have time to decide which assets or business segments it should sell and to whom. It hasn't been disclosed whether the insurance segment, or portions of it, would be sold. 'We believe the insurance subsidiary to be financially sound and continues to be sound today,' said analyst Joyce Sharaf of A.M. Best Co., an insurance rating company. She said yesterday that AIG holds major insurance businesses that 'are enviable franchises that could be sold in whole or in part.' A.M. Best analyst Marc Steinberg said he's continuing to review AIG's ratings and analysts are closely monitoring the situation as it unfolds. Analysts believe, however, that insurance policyholders are safe for now, he said.Insurance regulators in New York, who have regulatory oversight over New York-based AIG, and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners said the company's insurance operations remain solvent and can pay claims.The company released a statement Tuesday evening that said: 'Policyholders of AIG companies around the world can rest assured that AIG's commitments will continue to be honored.' Q: Should I be worried if I have health or life insurance policies with AIG, and what if I have a retirement annuity?A: You should first keep in mind that AIG continues to operate; it has not filed for bankruptcy protection and has not been declared insolvent. Even if the insurance portion of the business were declared insolvent, there are protections in place.Life and health insurance and annuities are covered by insurance guarantee associations that have been established in every state, said Peter Gallanis, president of the National Organization of Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Associations. The associations step in when insurance regulators in your state declare an insurance company insolvent and it's placed in receivership.The level of coverage may vary by state, but every state association provides withdrawal and cash value coverage for annuities of at least $100,000. About a dozen states, including Ohio, offer up to $300,000, and a few others offer up to $500,000.Life insurance policies are backed up with at least $300,000 in life insurance death benefits and $100,000 in cash surrender or withdrawal value. States offer at least $100,000 in health insurance policy benefits.Q: What should I do if I hold a homeowners or car-insurance policy with AIG?A: Every state has established property guarantee funds similar to those established to protect against losses in life and health insurance.Guarantee funds generally pay the amount of coverage stipulated by the policy or $300,000, whichever is less. Most state guarantee funds pay all of their state's workers' compensation benefits.
