The government comes to the rescue of insurance giant AIG with an $85 billion loan. It's all in an effort to calm stock market fears.On Monday the Dow dropped 500 points with news of Merill Lynch and Lehman Brother's failures.The phones rang for most of the day at the Wichita AIG offices. The voices on the other end wondered about their investments, should AIG go under.Branch manager Rick Wedel tried to answer their questions - although, he has some of his own.'We don't know what impact that would have,' said Wedel. 'And our greater concern is not our relationship with AIG, it's our relationship with our clients.He explained, 'we're in an educating process of letting them know that their investments, by and large, are not connected with AIG at all.'His AIG office does financial planning. Think of it as a middle man between you and your investments. You go though AIG to get to the company -- and stocks -- you want to invest in.Wedel's office and all it's employees act as contractors to AIG. So if AIG does go under, his office will probably be sold to another company; but your investment should stay safe, because it's not with AIG.The stock market bell on Wall Street may seem worlds away from Wichita. But when the stock market drops - like it did Monday - funds you've invested in may also drop.If you've only invested in a few stocks and you're near retirement -- you may have to work a few more years to earn your money back, say financial planners.But if you invested in many - diversified - you should be okay. 'Most are so well diversified that one stock that had a large tumble wouldn't have that great of an impact in a portfolio of one or two hundred stocks,' said Certified Financial Planner Richard Campbell.No one knows when the market will go back up, but when it does, so will your investments.And if you haven't invested yet -- now may be the time. As Campbell said, 'everything's on sale now.'Campbell also points out that you will only lose money if you sell now. He cautions people not to get emotional and sell off. If you do, it will be at a loss. But if you hold on to your investment until the market goes up, you could turn a profit.AIG is also one of the nation's largest insurance companies. Today the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, headed by Kansas Insurance Commissioner Sandy Prager, had the following statement.'We have a very strong message for consumers: If you have a policy with an AIG insurance company, they are solvent and have the capability to pay claims. Our job is to ensure that they continue to have the ability to pay.'
