NEW YORK, Sept. 15 /PRNewswire/ --  Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Ratings Services said today that it lowered its long-term counterparty rating on American International Group Inc. (NYSE: AIG) to 'A-' from 'AA-' and its short-term counterparty credit rating on AIG to 'A-2' from 'A-1+'.Standard &amp;amp; Poor's also said that it lowered its counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on most of AIG's insurance operating subsidiaries to 'A+' from 'AA+'.All of these ratings remain on CreditWatch with negative implications, where they were placed on Sept. 12, 2008.'The main reason for the rating actions is the combination of reduced flexibility in meeting additional collateral needs and concerns over increasing residential mortgage-related losses,' explained Standard &amp;amp; Poor's credit analyst Rodney A. Clark. Mark-to-market losses from mortgage-related investments and swap exposures have placed significant pressure on AIG's ability to access capital and liquidity. This is happening concurrently with significant dislocation across the financial markets. Despite these factors, the ratings also reflect the group's strong and diversified global competitive position in life and general insurance as well as its historically strong operating results.This action follows an announcement by the New York Department of Insurance that it would permit some of AIG's regulated insurance subsidiaries to provide the parent with $20 billion of liquid investments. This will permit the parent company to satisfy immediate liquidity needs, including possible collateral requirements by its AIG Financial Products Corp. (AIG-FP) subsidiary. However, at the same time, it will reduce the insurance subsidiaries' capital resources, at least temporarily. Assuming current market conditions persist, we expect that AIG will continue to pursue additional access to liquidity and the sale of certain businesses to cover potential further investment losses.The primary source of the strain comes from credit default swaps covering multi-sector collateralized debt obligations with mortgage exposure as well as insurance company holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS). Standard &amp;amp; Poor's continues to view the reported market-value losses on CDS of more than $25 billion and $12 billion of impairments on RMBS to exceed the ultimate economic loss. Although some recoveries are likely, given continued depressed market values, it is unlikely that any gains will be recorded before late 2009 or 2010.'The ratings remain on CreditWatch pending the completion of the asset transfer to the parent, the implementation of further liquidity options, and the successful sale of at least a portion of the business assets,' Mr. Clark added. 'If these steps are successful and if the deterioration in mortgage-related assets appears to be manageable with the newly raised capital, then we could removed the ratings from CreditWatch and affirm them. However, if these steps are not successful or if mortgage-related losses continue to worsen, then we could lower the ratings into the 'BBB' category.'Complete ratings information is available to subscribers of RatingsDirect, the real-time Web-based source for Standard &amp;amp; Poor's credit ratings, research, and risk analysis, at www.ratingsdirect.com. All ratings affected by this rating action can be found on Standard &amp;amp; Poor's public Web site at www.standardandpoors.com; select your preferred country or region, then Ratings in the left navigation bar, followed by Credit Ratings Search.Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies (NYSE: MHP), is the world's foremost provider of financial market intelligence, including independent credit ratings, indices, risk evaluation, investment research and data. With approximately 8,500 employees, including wholly owned affiliates, located in 23 countries and markets, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's is an essential part of the world's financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for more than 140 years in providing investors with the independent benchmarks they need to feel more confident about their investment and financial decisions. For more information, visit http://www.standardandpoors.com.SOURCE Standard &amp;amp; Poor's
