(BestWire Services Via Acquire Media NewsEdge) An erosion of confidence in American International Group Inc. is prompting commercial policyholders to question whether to hold onto AIG insurance coverage or seek new insurance underwriters, according to a webinar held Sept. 24 by worldwide broker Marsh Inc. The webinar followed news that AIG had signed an $85 billion bridge-loan agreement with the United States Federal Reserve Bank, effectively saving the company from bankruptcy.Under the agreement, AIG's parent will be owned by the Federal Reserve Bank, said Paul Sherbine of Marsh's global markets analysis group. Most important to policyholders, the loan facility secured by capital, stock and assets of certain AIG subsidiaries excludes assets of regulated subsidiaries and foreign subsidiaries. 'The assets in the insurance companies are staying there,' he said. 'If anything would go, it would be the common stock of the groups that is held by the parent.' AIG has $40 billion globally in policyholders surplus on the property/casualty side to support operations, he said.Tim Mahoney, Marsh's president of global risk management, said the federal rescue of AIG was of 'significant importance to us.' He said many clients are in the midst of Oct. 1 renewals and that even more are looking ahead to Jan. 1 renewals. Marsh has been working to help clients to address their concerns about AIG and understand their options about insurance and risk-management programs, he said.Bob Howe, head of Marsh's global property business, said many clients have asked Marsh to review their overall exposure to AIG, mostly in primary layers of programs, where AIG has a significant influence. Certain business sectors also have unique issues that arise, such as Marsh's stand-alone terrorism portfolio, where for certain risks, AIG is the market leader, he said. 'Some clients are taking a wait-and-see approach with AIG,' he said. Others are asking about their options and possible alternatives to diversify their placements. 'From my perspective, AIG has been a unique player in the market because it's so highly aggressive for us on both price and coverage,' Howe said. 'We're working to find options that maintain the scope of coverage without increasing costs, but that may prove to be a challenge.'Markets in London and Bermuda see current conditions, especially in a soft market, as an opportunity for Zurich, Ace, CNA and Allianz, Howe said. He pointed out, however, that AIG continues to exceed Marsh's minimum financial guidelines.In Marsh's casualty practice, midterm replacement of AIG policies is the exception rather than the rule, said Tony Tam, managing director. But he said that more clients are talking about diversification. In the excess liability business, Zurich and Ace have both increased their capacity per insured to $50 million to offer clients options, he said.Other highlights included:In the health care industry, clients are taking a wait-and-see position on the reliability of tail coverages in medical malpractice. But clients are concerned that AIG may not retain its best staff in its health care business.In global aviation, AIG may sell International Lease Finance Corp., its aircraft leasing business. AIG is also one of the largest aviation related insurance providers; AIG Aviation generally writes 7.5% to 15% of most major aviation risk worldwide. Most airlines and large aircraft component manufacturers are taking a wait-and-see approach, knowing that there is enough capacity worldwide to replace it.In the marine marketplace, there is also sufficient overall capacity if clients need to replace AIG.(By Ron Panko, senior associate editor, Best's Review: Ronald.Panko@ambest.com)Copyright ? 2008 A.M. Best Company, Inc.[ Back To IVR Global Community's Homepage ]
