SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Insurance giant American International Group, beset by a record stock slump and a possible cut from ratings agency Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, said Friday it was reviewing its businesses and that 'everything was on the table,' suggesting it might sell assets to raise capital and avoid a crippling downgrade. The company had been preparing for a major reorganization announcement on Sept. 25, but on Friday the Wall Street Journal reported on its Web site that the company may hold a conference call for analysts on Monday during which it could announce asset sales. AIG shares slumped a record 31% Friday on concern the world's largest insurer may be downgraded by ratings agencies, triggering billions of dollars in new capital needs. Standard &amp;amp; Poor's put AIG's ratings on CreditWatch with negative implications, suggesting the agency may downgrade the insurer in the future. 'Additional market value losses will place some strain on the company's resources,' Standard &amp;amp; Poor's credit analyst Rodney Clark said in a statement. 'AIG's potential access to the capital market may be more restricted in the short term.' AIG stock lost 31% to close at $12.14. More than 300 million shares traded, another record, according to FactSet Research. The shares lost another 5.6% to $11.46 in after-hours action. AIG may sell its majority stake in reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings (TRH) and other businesses to raise capital, analysts said. 'We're reviewing everything,' Nicholas Ashooh, an AIG spokesman, said. 'Everything's on the table.' The insurer is still planning to present a major re-organization plan during an investor conference on Sept. 25 and Ashooh noted. He said he was unaware of plans for a conference call on Monday and declined to comment further. However, given the sharp declines in AIG shares recently, the insurer may announce some developments earlier, Joshua Shanker, an analyst at Citigroup, said in a note to investors on Friday. Spreads on AIG (AIG) credit default swaps widened by 191 basis points to 883 on Friday, according to Credit Default Research. That's wider than spreads on CDS of Lehman Brothers (LEH), which is rushing to sell itself to salvage its business. CDS are a common type of derivative contract that pay out in the event of default. When the difference, or spread, between rates on these contracts and rates on U.S. Treasury bonds increases, that suggests investors are more worried about a potential default. 'While most of us are discussing the future of Lehman and its impact on the broader market, what we should be of more worried about is the action in AIG,' Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, wrote in a note to clients on Friday. AIG has been hit hard by the housing crisis and credit crunch because the insurer's derivatives unit sold guarantees on mortgage-related securities known as collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, using credit default swaps. As house prices fall and the credit crunch deepens, the market value of these CDO exposures is dropping, forcing AIG to report big write-downs. AIG reported a quarterly net loss of more than $5 billion in August as it wrote down these exposures more and suffered impairments on some of its mortgage-related investments. Investors and analysts are now worried that AIG could be downgraded again by ratings agencies. If that happens, the insurer's derivatives unit would have to post billions of dollars in extra collateral to support contracts with trading counterparties. That, in turn, has sparked concerns that the company will need to raise more capital. 'It's all about the credit default swaps, which imply need to raise capital, which implies potential downgrades, which imply loss of business,' said Stewart Johnson, a portfolio manager at Philo Smith &amp;amp; Co., an insurance-focused investment firm. Johnson said Philo sold its stake in AIG after former Chief Executive Maurice 'Hank' Greenberg left the insurer in 2005. Since his departure, AIG shares have lost roughly three quarters of their value. If AIG's long-term senior debt ratings are cut to A1 by Moody's Investors Service and A+ by Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, counterparties would be able to demand roughly $13.3 billion in extra collateral, the insurer estimated in its latest quarterly regulatory filing. The company's ratings are currently one notch above that. With AIG shares slumping, it may be more difficult for the company to sell new shares to raise all the capital it may. Instead, the company may be able to sell some of its businesses or unwind some of its derivative-based guarantees, Citigroup's Shanker wrote. As AIG has reported more and more losses this year, there have been growing calls for the company to break itself up, or at least sell some of its many businesses. The insurer's new Chief Executive Robert Willumstad said in August that the company is reviewing all its businesses to try to improve results, reduce risk and protect capital. AIG is expected to present its re-organization plan during an investor conference on Sept. 25. 'We expect the shares to remain volatile as investors await news from the company,' Catherine Seifert, an analyst at Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Equity Research, said. 'AIG has a number of important franchises, but we would not add to positions until greater clarity regarding its next move emerges.' AIG has several businesses that can be sold to raise capital, Citigroup's Shanker explained. Some of these haven't been hit as hard by the credit crunch, making them easier to sell, he added. AIG's majority stake in Transatlantic is a likely candidate for sale. Other such businesses include the insurer's big aircraft leasing unit ILFC, the VALIC and SunAmerica U.S. variable annuity units and its stake in the People's Insurance Company of China, Shanker said. AIG's personal lines insurance businesses, including 21st Century, could also be sold, the analyst said. The company's consumer finance unit, American General Finance, could also be sold, but that has been affected more by the credit crunch, so any deal may happen under 'fire-sale' conditions, Shanker added. 'A value of no less than $20 billion could be realized upon sale of these assets even under extreme duress,' the analyst wrote. 'We believe the value of these businesses is significantly higher.'
