 By Sylvia Juuko THE America Insuarance Group-Uganda shall not be affected by the financial troubles afflicting its mother company in the United States, AIG Inc., a senior manager has said. Alex Wanjohi, the insurance firm's managing director, assured their clients the company is adequately capitalized and capable of meeting its obligation to policy holders including payment of claims. "The local solvency margin and capital of AIG Uganda Limited continues to be healthy with surplus capital of sh12.8b," Wanjohi said in a statement on Friday. "Our treaty facilities with our parent company's regulated insurance subsidiaries continue to remain undiminished," he added. The AIG Inc. received an $85b secured revolving credit from the US Government on September 16 to address the company's liquidity issues. This was in the wake of the global financial markets turmoil following the filing for bankruptcy of America's fourth largest bank Lehman Brothers. Wanjohi noted despite the recent challenges faced by AIG Inc., the Foreign General Insurance companies of AIG had a capital position that remained intact and are available to underwrite policies and pay policy holder claims. "The Foreign General Insurance companies continue to exhibit strong financial strength and performance with 2008 second quarter operating income of nearly $800m, net written premiums of $3.7b and a profitable combined ratio of 85%," he said. He added AIG Uganda Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of American International Underwriters Overseas Limited, a member of the Foreign General Insurance companies that are AIG's international Property-Casualty insurance operations. AIG-U last year posted a sh5b pre-tax profit compared to sh4.8b recorded in 2006. The company's gross premium reached sh22.9b in 2007 from sh20.1b the previous year. However, its total assets declined to sh28b from sh30b in the period under review. AIG Inc. assured its clients across the globe, that AIG companies were direct obligations of its regulated subsidiary insurance companies around the world. "These companies continue to operate in the normal course to meet obligations to policy holders," AIG Uganda's parent company, said in a statement. "AIG companies are fully committed to maintaining required capital levels in all of its subsidiaries and to meeting the needs of their customers," it added. 
