CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- Warren Buffett, 'Hank' Greenberg and various insurance companies are all eager to buy businesses from American International Group ( AIG). That eagerness - and skittishness among AIG insurance customers and employees - could accelerate and alter the company's plans to sell assets.AIG, one of the world's largest insurers, disclosed Wednesday morning that, as expected, it accepted a federal bailout plan that would lend it $85 billion in exchange for giving a nearly 80% equity interest to the U.S. government. The company plans to pay off its Federal Reserve loan with a quick sale of non-core businesses, according to Edward M. Liddy, the insurers' newly appointed chief executive in recent interviews.But factors he can't control, including skittish insurance customers, employee and customer recruitment by rivals, or unsolicited offers, could all force his hand, leading him to sell some insurance businesses he'd rather keep.In a Wednesday interview on CNBC, investor Buffett, of Berkshire Hathaway ( BRKA, BRKB), said that he had expressed an interest in buying 'one or two units' as AIG struggled to raise capital in recent weeks, but was unable to get a deal worked out in time.Berkshire Hathaway operates insurance and reinsurance businesses, and was also rumored to be interested in buying AIG's aircraft leasing business. Buffett said he expects to get another chance to pick up some AIG businesses in coming months.'Most of it will be for sale in the next year or two,' he predicted.AIG's former chairman and chief executive, Maurice Greenberg, has said that his C.V. Starr is also a potential buyer. Greenberg was forced out of AIG in 2005 and now competes against the company he built.Rival companies and brokers say customers are asking for bids on their insurance business, while an exodus of employees could further hinder AIG's plans.An AIG spokesman was unable to say whether AIG is seeing a big increase in account or employee movement and whether it anticipates offers for its key commercial insurance lines of business.In a conference call Tuesday sponsored by Marsh Inc., the insurance brokerage business of Marsh &amp;amp; McLennan Cos. (MMC), Nicolas C. Walsh, executive vice president of AIG's foreign general insurance and president and chief executive of the American International Underwriters, or AIU, business of AIG said that the insurance operations are not part of 'the conversation' over asset sales.He said that he conducts a daily 10-minute internal broadcast to all employees as well as a weekly Webcast to help keep employees calm, and that the company is putting together putting together a report on AIU's financials for insurance customers that may have concerns. Walsh stressed that AIG cannot dip into AIU's assets to cover its liquidity needs.It may not be enough, said reinsurance consultant Andrew Barile of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. At a recent industry conference, he said met some recent employee defectors from AIG, and he suspects at least a few insurance unit executives have looked into raising capital to finance a management buyout of their businesses.'Ed (Liddy) is not the only one making decisions,' said Barile. He said that many commercial insurance policies have 30-day cancellation requirements, which is plenty of time to line up new coverage, if customers are inclined to move, and other insurers are going after that business aggressively, which could also push him into selling. 'He doesn't have time to dot the i's and cross the t's.' AIG could lose a lot of customers if Liddy sticks to a plan of selling off non insurance assets first before turning to sales of insurance units.'We're pretty busy too,' said Edmond F. Kelly, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Liberty Mutual Group, a $95 billion assets rival of AIG in some of its key commercial insurance lines of business. 'My personal involvement is at a high level. We know what we are doing,' Kelly said in an interview Monday.Kelly wouldn't say if his company is a potential buyer for any AIG companies, but he said that he sees an opportunity to win business away from its rival, particularly in its large commercial accounts and specialty casualty businesses. 'They are not going to be in a growth mode for a while,' Kelly said.Kelly is hearing 'anecdotally' of some customers who are canceling their contracts mid-term, particularly in casualty lines such as directors and officers liability coverage.He suspects that AIG will have to aggressively cut prices in order to keep that business, which could also cut its insurance profits, and contribute to an already soft market, at least in the short term. An AIG spokesman did not immediately return a query on whether it is cutting prices to keep customers.Transatlantic Reinsurance Co. (TRH), which is 59% owned by AIG, sent a letter to customers last week 'to address the many questions' clients and brokers may have on the company's financial relationship to AIG, according to the letter, signed by Robert F. Orlich, the company's president and chief executive. He addressed questions on AIG access to Transatlantic's balance sheet, rating agency actions and the company's financial strength.State insurance regulators issued warnings to insurance agents who may try to frighten AIG life insurance and annuity customers into moving accounts, after some state insurance departments received complaints, particularly from elderly customers.A Wall Street Journal article Wednesday said that some large U.S. banks have suspended sales of AIG annuities amid the ratings downgrade of some of its insurance subsidiaries.Fox, Pitt-Kelton analyst Gary Ransom expects AIG to sell its aircraft leasing business, Transatlantic Re, its personal lines insurance, and much of its U.S. life insurance business. He estimates the value of those businesses in a range of $110 billion to $125 billion, which is more than AIG's $85 billion Federal Reserve line of credit.Liddy 'will do everything in his power to retain his core business,' said David Bradford, executive vice president of Advisen Ltd., an insurance consultant. 'He can't afford to ignore any viable offer, but it is not something he would prefer. But at the end of the day, customers could decide to vote with their feet.'-By Lavonne Kuykendall, Dow Jones Newswires; 312-750-4141; lavonne.kuykendall@ dowjones.com(M. P. McQueen contributed to this story.)Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=PJeHmS4lRrSS53ZpCwJJZg%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.(END) Dow Jones Newswires 09-24-081123ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.
