EVEN THOUGH INSURANCE giant American International Group (AIG) is scrambling to stay afloat, its policyholders have a little, well, insurance. In an act of desperation, AIG -- whose umbrella of subsidiaries sells life, auto and homeowners insurance, among other products -- is seeking $40 billion in loans and other financing to help offset $18.5 billion in losses it incurred from its exposure to the subprime mortgage crisis. The firm has already spoken with buyout firms (and according to the New York Times, it has rejected the offers it received) and has separately requested a $40 billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve. Earlier Monday, New York State Governor David Paterson said he would relax insurance industry regulations and allow the firm to borrow $20 billion in capital from its own subsidiaries in order to continue daily operations. While AIG's need for billions of dollars is a painful reality, the firm's sheer size and attractive business units should help shield policyholders from feeling much discomfort. According to Richard Ebeling, a senior research fellow with think tank American Institute of Economic Research, it's unlikely AIG will go under. 'Too many of their assets have high marketability,' he says. 'They've already had some bites.' 'For now, at AIG it's business as usual for policyholders,' says Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group. What happens down the road, however, remains unclear.  The states, which are organized through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, are in charge of regulating the insurance industry -- not the federal government. And before anything can truly happen, the NAIC must first comb through AIG's financial records to decide if it must step in to rehabilitate or liquidate the firm, says Scott Simmonds, an independent insurance consultant based in Saco, Maine. 'You're going to have 50 different regulators across the country trying to sort this out,' he says. And, in this case, things are even more complicated because AIG's problems are unprecedented -- usually it's a natural disaster that wipes out an insurer, not the stock market. While AIG's next move remains uncertain (the company is expected to announce some sort of plan in the upcoming days), here's how its troubles could impact consumers: Policy buyouts To raise capital, it's likely that AIG may try to sell some of its personal insurance divisions, says Birny Birnbaum, executive director for the Texas-based Center for Economic Justice, a nonprofit consumer advocate. The most likely candidate to go first: the auto insurance division. Auto policies are fairly standard industrywide, and so would be more attractive to buyers, he says. And since state regulators heavily restrict changes in terms and conditions for such takeovers, current policyholders would see few changes until their policies go up for renewal. Most claims will be covered by the states If AIG's financial situation deteriorates further, state regulators would almost certainly step in and cover the insolvent insurer's outstanding claims, says Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, a consumer advocate. State-run guarantee funds provide coverage of up to $300,000 in most states. Although that's adequate for the bulk of claims, it's small comfort for life insurance claims or homeowners recovering from a total loss -- say, those in Texas affected by Hurricane Ike, he says. Depending on the number of outstanding claims, policyholders might also have to wait months to receive proceeds. One catch: Protections only kick in for holders of policies through a so-called admitted carrier that is licensed by the state, warns Simmonds. A non-admitted policy typically covers riskier consumers who've been rejected by the state-licensed market. Check your policy to make sure you're covered. Higher taxes are unlikely Because the floundering insurer has a number of options in which to raise capital, the Fed is unlikely to grant AIG the $40 billion bridge loan it requested, predicts Ebeling. Even if it did approve lending the vast sum, taxpayers would only be on the hook if AIG went under. 'AIG is basically asking for access to [loan] funds,' says Ebeling. 'That's not necessarily taxpayers' money.' Worst-case scenario: a wave of uninsured If AIG suffers a complete meltdown before it's able to sell off its insurance divisions, many consumers will no longer be insured. However, policyholders will have plenty of time to come up with a backup plan. 'An insurance company wouldn't go out of business tomorrow,' reassures Simmonds. 'Regulators wouldn't allow that to happen. There would be a gray period.' Life insurance customers who aren't covered by their employer will have the hardest time finding new coverage. 'If you bought a policy 15 years ago and were healthy, and two years ago were diagnosed with a heart condition, the game has changed,' he says. Be prepared to put forth some legwork to secure a new policy, and brace yourself for the financial impact of one with less favorable terms. (For ways to save, click here.) Also See: Should Brokerage-Account Holders Bail on Lehman, Merrill? How to Make Sure Your Money's Safe Mutual Funds Can't Avoid Latest Downturn 
