  FARMINGTON Large employers and a steady housing market will keep Farmington's economy strong through the financial crisis, though some residents and businesses may experience credit trouble, local businessmen say. Standards of evaluating credit used to decide whether to loan money to Farmington businesses and home buyers will tighten, these businessmen say. That could mean hardship for people with bad credit. 'The days of cheap credit and lax lending standards are largely over,' said Chris Hunter, principal for Cornerstone Business Solutions, a consulting company for Four Corners businesses.The federal government bailed out mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac earlier this month, and economic troubles climaxed last week when investment banking firms Lehman Brothers Holdings and Merrill Lynch failed, the former declaring bankruptcy and the latter selling to Bank of America. The Treasury Department also rescued insurance giant American International Group with an $85 billion loan. 'It's too early to understand the full implications of both what is happening and what the Treasury has done,' Hunter said. 'However, the market stabilizing actions will benefit in the long term the ability of creditworthy businesses and potential homeowners to borrow money at reasonable prices.' Farmington's outlook The mortgage crisis led to failures in the financial sector, said Jasper Welch, director for the San Juan College Enterprise Center. People Advertisementbought and sold investments tied to mortgages as homeowners defaulted on mortgage payments when their home values decreased. Large employers such as the oil and gas industry, San Juan College and San Juan Medical Center have kept Farmington's economy strong because industry employees continue to buy and sell homes, keeping Farmington's housing market strong, Welch said. And workers' healthy demand for products has kept the retail sector strong. Farmington mostly weathered the mortgage crisis while large cities in states such as Arizona, Nevada, Florida and California, were hit hard, Welch said. 'We just never really had that in this market to that extent,' Welch said. 'So we were fortunate.' Welch thinks taxpayers eventually will pay for the bailouts. 'My personal opinion is the taxpayers will hold some debt that will never get paid,' he said. The government's take-over of mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has made affording a home easier, said John Tate, branch manager of Allied Home Mortgage Capital Corporation. Most Farmington residents will continue to get loans on homes, but down payments may increase from a few percentage points to '15 to 20' percent, he said. 'It's not going to have much of an effect on Farmington unless we have a large economic failure in the oil industry, which is our single biggest employer,' he said. Insurance claims OKMeanwhile, the New Mexico Public Regulations Commission said in a statement that AIG and its subsidiaries can pay insurance claims to policyholders.AIG, a holding company, writes $125 million in insurance premiums in the state. The state commission regulates insurance, telecommunications, transportation and utilities. As a holding company, AIG is separate from its subsidiary insurance companies. State laws that govern those companies are designed to protect policyholders. 'The No. 1 job of state insurance regulators is to make sure insurance companies operate on a financially sound basis,' said Morris J. Chavez, New Mexico superintendent of insurance, in the statement. 'If needed, we immediately step in if it appears that an insurer will be unable to fulfill the promises made to its policyholders.' Steve Lynn: slynn@daily-times.com
