State insurance regulators are warning agents against trying to frighten customers into replacing policies from troubled American International Group Inc. New York state and Kentucky insurance commissioners said they had received complaints about agents representing other companies using improper sales practices, including an attempt to persuade an elderly annuity owner to surrender an AIG policy with only three years until maturity. Meanwhile, some large U.S. banks have suspended sales of AIG annuities amid the ratings downgrade last week of some of AIG's more than 70 state-regulated insurance subsidiaries, although the ratings generally remain strong. J.P. Morgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. has confirmed that it suspended sales of AIG insurance products as of Sept. 15 and hasn't set a date for resuming sales. The downgrades occurred before the federal government agreed to lend the parent holding company $85 billion. 'A number of banks have removed AIG from their provider list because of the rating downgrade, but no one that I have spoken to believes the insurance companies are in any kind of financial jeopardy,' said Michael White, president of Michael White Associates LLC, a bank insurance consulting firm in Radnor, Pa. 'Ninety-two percent of the 700 banks that distribute our fixed annuities continue to sell our product. We expect all banks to re-establish sales in the future following the Fed's action,' an AIG spokesman said Tuesday. Large insurance brokerages that serve commercial and high-net-worth clients said Tuesday that while they had fielded many inquiries from concerned clients in the past 10 days, few had changed policies or suspended applications because of the financial problems at AIG's holding company. But they acknowledged that many institutional contracts come up for renewal in the next few months, and depending on what happens to AIG between now and then, some clients could look at other options. 'People are remaining where they are, and we will provide options if they become necessary, but I haven't had anyone jump ship,' said Bill Hanson, manager and assistant vice president of Hilb Rogal &amp;amp; Hobbs Insurance Services of California Inc. in Truckee, Calif. Among agencies that serve the general public, Robert Bland, chief executive and president of Insure.com, an on-line brokerage, said orders for new policies increased 19% and requests for financial-strength ratings of companies jumped a huge 43% to 4,200 from 2,900. Insure.com provides quotes from 35 life-insurance companies, mostly for term-life-insurance policies. 'We are opening a new era of skepticism,' Mr. Bland said. 'I believe ratings will be on life-insurance buyers' minds for a very long time. This is really going to cause a fundamental change.' In New York state, insurance superintendent Eric Dinallo said his office had received complaints from AIG and other sources about poaching of its customers by agents using headlines about the company's troubles to question its solvency -- a practice that is illegal in the state. He and other insurance commissioners meeting at the National Association of Insurance Commissioners in National Harbor, Md., this week also emphasized that the state-regulated subsidiaries of AIG that insure policies and annuity contracts remain strong. The New York insurance department received 1,157 telephone calls from consumers concerned about the safety of AIG policies, 60% of them from AIG annuity owners, officials said. Peter Tulupman, a spokesman for AIG, said Monday that the company had made some complaints about improper practices to New York insurance regulators, but they were about property insurance. Kentucky Insurance Commissioner Sharon P. Clark said among the calls her office had received was one from an 87-year-old woman who was approached by a bank's insurance agent who urged her to cancel her AIG policy and get a new one from a different insurer, which would have cost her more than $3,000 in commissions and charges.  
