Moody's Investors Service has downgraded the senior unsecured debt rating of American International Group to A2 from Aa3 in light of the continuing deterioration in the US housing market and the consequent impact on the group's liquidity and capital position due to its related investment and derivative exposures. The company's long-term and Prime-1 short-term ratings were placed on review for possible further downgrade. The company has developed a wide-ranging plan to address capital and liquidity risks which includes raising funds via secured borrowings, asset sales and other capital sources. If successful, these actions would likely stabilize the ratings at current levels, although significant execution risk exists with respect to some elements of that plan, especially given the current level of instability in capital markets. Moody's noted, however, that further downgrades of the parent and certain operating units are likely if the immediate liquidity and capital concerns are not fully addressed. Such downgrades could amount to multiple notches. Moody's said that the primary insurance operations are fundamentally solid but are nevertheless subject to increased pressure due to investment deterioration and the negative reputational impact of losses within the group's financial products business. The holding company downgrade to A2 and continuing review reflect the losses at certain insurance and financial products units as well as the severe implications of those losses - and continuing exposures - for capital and liquidity. The dislocation in AIG's holding company financial position is considered by Moody's to be indicative of a risk profile that is not consistent with a rating in the Aa range, even if near term stresses on capital and liquidity are successfully remediated. The current volatility in AIG's stock price and borrowing spreads have made it more difficult to address the company's immediate liquidity and capital needs through traditional capital market issuance; however, the company may be able to address these needs through alternative means. The review of AIG's ratings will focus on execution of the company's pending strategic and financial plans, with specific emphasis on how effectively they 1) re-establish the company's robust liquidity position, 2) re-define the group strategy, 3) contain and reduce risk within the financial products unit, 4) re-build capitalization, and 5) reduce the risk of reputation damage to AIG's business in domestic and international markets. Moody's has also downgraded the ratings of several AIG subsidiaries (see list below), including the Domestic Life Insurance and Retirement Services companies (DLIRS -- insurance financial strength rating (IFSR) to Aa3 from Aa2); American Life Insurance Company (IFSR to Aa3 from Aa2); AIG Edison Life Insurance Company (IFSR to Aa3 from Aa2); AIG UK Limited (IFSR to A1 from Aa3); AIG Capital Corporation (senior unsecured debt to Baa1 from A2, short-term debt to Prime-2 from Prime-1); American General Finance Corporation (senior unsecured debt to A3 from A1, short-term debt to Prime-2 from Prime-1); and International Lease Finance Corporation (senior unsecured debt to A3 from A1; short-term debt to Prime-2 from Prime-1). Nearly all of AIG's subsidiary ratings remain on review for possible further downgrade. 
