The Nation (Nairobi)AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited on Monday assured its customers that the financial troubles facing the AIG Inc would not affect its local financial obligations. AIG Kenya managing director Japh Olende said the local subsidiary had sound financial base to enable it to carry out its operations. 'Despite the recent challenges faced by AIG Inc in the America, AIG's foreign general insurance companies which include AIG Kenya have a capital position that remains intact and are available to underwrite policies and pay policy holder claims.' Mr Olende said. AIG Kenya Insurance Company Limited is a subsidiary of America International Underwriters Overseas Limited with 33 per cent local shareholding. The financially struggling AIG Inc was on September 16 provided with a two year $85 billion revolving credit facility by American government. Mr Olende said the foreign general insurance companies, that include AIG Kenya continue to exhibit strong financial performance with the 2008 second quarter operating income of nearly $800 million, net premiums of $3.7 billion and a profitable combined ration of 85 per cent. He said the company's local solvency margin and capital continue to be healthy with sufficient surplus capital. The reinsurance treaties with parent company's regulated insurance remains undiminished. 'All individual and corporate policyholders can rest assured that AIG Kenya has healthy surplus capital, adequate solvency ratio and is operating in normal course of business.', said the company through a press release signed by Mr Olende. According to AIG Inc Chief Executive Officer Edward Liddy the credit facility will allow the company to to sell-off non-core assets in an orderly way and rebuild a dynamic enterprise. He said the company will refocus on its principle insurance activities of US domestic and international property and casualty insurance (general insurance), life insurance and retirement services (pension). Mr Liddy said AIG Inc will fully pay American government for every dollar of credit utilised, with interest, and emerge a much stronger and focused company. 
