assured insurance regulator IRDA that all , according to Finance Minister P Chidambaram. The assurance comes in the wake of the mistrust that the American turn of events have meant for insurer AIG that has a tie-up with Tatas in India. Despite assurances from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) that money invested with Tata AIG Life Insurance is safe, some policyholders is cagey about their investments in the company. They continue to remain sceptical about the companys ability to service claims. Their primary questions are along these lines, Is my money safe with them? Would I get adequate returns on my investment? Do I still hold on to the policy or withdraw it, even if I lose out on returns? I have a Tata-AIG life insurance policy and I hear AIG of the US is in big trouble. I just hope I dont end up losing all my investments in the policy sold by this company, said a somewhat jittery policyholder. Yet another, who bought a policy last week, said: Im not too sure if I took the right decision of investing my money in a Tata AIG policy. IRDA, on Wednesday, had issued a press release, saying, Life and general insurance companies promoted by Tata Sons and Tata AIG Life are registered under Indian Companies Act and are bound by the provisions of the Insurance Act and other Regulations. The accounts of these two companies as on March 31, 2008, indicate that both companies have satisfactory solvency margins which are adequate to meet liabilities. For the uninitiated, this means Tata AIG has enough money to pay policyholders their dues in case theres a claim and that their investment in the company is safe. To top it up, the American International Group has also issued a release, saying its commitments to AIG companies around the world will continue to be honoured. An official from Tata-AIG Life said: We are well capitalised and highly solvent. This means the company is comfortable when it comes to paying policyholders. Meanwhile. Chidambaram said collapse of Lehman Brothers can lead to some tightness in credit in India, but the government will provide coordinated funding where needed. 'There is absolutely no need for apprehension as all our banks are very strong banks and public sector banks do not have any exposure to Lehman Bros,' he said. Chidambaram also dispelled fears about the Tata-AIG joint venture in India adding that the Lehman case should not be compared with that of American Insurance Group (AIG). 'The insurance regulator's chairman have spoken to the Tatas and have been assured that all payment obligations of Tata-AIG will be made,' he said. He said the Tatas own 74 percent of the joint venture and the group has assured the insurance regulator, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA), that the Indian joint venture is not facing solvency issues. Chidambaram's comments came as US authorities grappled with the financial crisis triggered by the collapse of merchant bankers Lehman Brothers. On India's economic growth, he said: 'I still maintain my view that growth in fiscal 2008-09 will be close to 8 percent.' Regarding the exchange rate of the Indian rupee, he said the government does not take any view on the exchange rate. 'The exchange rate is likely to move both ways, and as long as it moves both ways in an orderly manner, the government will not worry about it,' the minister said. As for shoring up the rupee-dollar exchange rate, Chidambaram said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was the regulator and would take appropriate steps if and when needed. 'Our financial reforms are carefully calibrated. We do not take decisions without considering pros and cons. We will continue to pursue financial sector reforms. 'But we will do so with regard to context, and we will keep regulations a step ahead of innovation. As long as we do that, we do not think that financial sector reforms will cause us problems.' Chidambaram said.
