Rising health insurance costs outpace income in Wisconsin - Oshkosh...Washington Square Financial, LLC Announces Name Change to Imperial ...Nine carriers bid to offer Cover Florida health insurance - Bizjour...Genworth Comments on Capital Position and Financial Flexibility - P...AM Best Revises Rating Outlook of US Life/Health Companies to Negat...Columbus-Based Physicians' Assurance Enrolling First Customers ...Long-term care needs new thinking - Minneapolis Star TribuneWith MetLife Hike, Three Largest LTC Insurers Have Raised Rates on ...Rising health insurance costs outpace income in Wisconsin - Oshkosh NorthwesternRising health insurance costs outpace income in Wisconsin Oshkosh Northwestern, WI - 4 minutes ago By ELLYN FERGUSON  Gannett News Service  September 18, 2008 WASHINGTON - Wisconsin workers who have trimmed family budgets to pay health insurance ...Washington Square Financial, LLC Announces Name Change to Imperial ... - MarketWatchWashington Square Financial, LLC Announces Name Change to Imperial ... MarketWatch - 1 hour ago Imperial Structured Settlements, LLC is a specialty finance company that purchases structured settlement payment rights and certain annuities from ...Nine carriers bid to offer Cover Florida health insurance - Bizjournals.comNine carriers bid to offer Cover Florida health insurance Bizjournals.com, NC - 2 hours ago Cover Florida permits the state to partner with competitively selected private health care entities to create health insurance products that could not be ... Business Roundtable Unveils Health Care Policy PlanMarketWatch Ronnie Polaneczky: Think you're covered by your health insurance ...Philadelphia Daily News Candidates advisers talk health policyHarvard University Gazette Kaiser network.org- BusinessWeek all 521 news articlesGenworth Comments on Capital Position and Financial Flexibility - PR Newswire (press release)Genworth Comments on Capital Position and Financial Flexibility PR Newswire (press release), NY - 2 hours ago ... goodwill impairments, reputational risks as a result of an announced rate increase on certain in-force long term care insurance products, ...AM Best Revises Rating Outlook of US Life/Health Companies to Negative - MarketWatchAM Best Revises Rating Outlook of US Life/Health Companies to Negative MarketWatch - 2 hours ago These issues are most prevalent across health insurance product lines, which are influenced significantly by regulation at both the federal and state levels ...Columbus-Based Physicians' Assurance Enrolling First Customers for ... - MarketWatchColumbus-Based Physicians' Assurance Enrolling First Customers for ... MarketWatch - 2 hours ago (TPAC), a provider of employee group health insurance owned and operated by local medical leaders in Columbus, Ohio, began enrolling policyholders this ...Long-term care needs new thinking - Minneapolis Star TribuneLong-term care needs new thinking Minneapolis Star Tribune, MN - 2 hours ago Unfortunately, Medicaid has become our largest payer of aging services and the sole long-term care insurance policy for most Americans. ...With MetLife Hike, Three Largest LTC Insurers Have Raised Rates on ... - ElderLawAnswers.comWith MetLife Hike, Three Largest LTC Insurers Have Raised Rates on ... ElderLawAnswers.com, MA - 4 hours ago MetLife recently announced that it will raise its long-term care insurance premiums an average of 18 percent for policyholders who purchased policies from ...September's ObjectionOne of our readers recently encountered this objection:'I already have (health insurance, life insurance, etc.); I dont have a need for what youre selling'Click Hereto give your expert advice. Your answer may be printed in the next ASJ.Addressing Your Clients Concerns in the Wake of the AIG BailoutWritten by Christina Pellett, Managing Editor   What could the Feds $85 billion loan to the insurance giant mean to your business, and what can you do about it?A tumultuous 10 days on Wall Street has culminated in an $85 billion federal loan to insurance giant AIG, part of an agreement that gives the U.S. government a 79.9 percent equity interest in the company and the right to veto the payment of dividends to common and preferred shareholders. In addition, the companys CEO, Robert Willumstad, has been replaced by former Allstate chief executive Edward Liddy. The loan came as a surprise to some after the government on Sept. 14 refused to bail out Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which has filed for bankruptcy-court protection and is being sold-off in pieces. Most importantly, it has brought the insurance industry into the midst of a financial crisis that has politicians and policymakers calling for sweeping regulatory reform. Up until this week, for the most part, the anxiety among consumers has been [focused on] the banks, driven by the subprime issue, and certainly, within the past two weeks, the brokerage houses, said American College President and CEO Larry Barton. Now, for the first time, we have a major insurer with what at first we thought was heartburn but which has very much been blossoming into cancer. This will create the potential for a number of companies with no association with AIG whatsoever to be receiving questions from the public. Those questions, said Barton, can include concerns about the safety and solvency of products, the stability of premiums and rates of return, and the source of financial reserves. Clients are also likely to wonder what would happen if their insurers, most of which are likely to be smaller than AIG and not tagged for federal assistance, faced a similar financial crisis.  According to Insurance Information Institute President Robert P. Hartwig, state guaranty funds help protect the investments of both life and annuity policyholders in cases such as these. Before these come into play, however, an insurer experiencing financial difficulty would enter rehabilitation, typically under the auspices of a state insurance department, which would attempt to reform the company so it could meet its obligations using its existing assets. Should those assets fall short of expectations, the company would be liquidated and guaranty funds would be leveraged. Hartwig did point out that AIGs main issues were not created by its insurance unit, but rather by its parent company. In fact, the carrier issued a statement on Sept. 16 addressing policyholder concerns and assuring them that its life insurance, general insurance, and retirement services businesses will continue to operate normally. Agents within its insurance unit are being urged to conduct business as usual, Hartwig added. The insurance policies written by AIG companies are direct obligations of its regulated subsidiary insurance companies around the world, the statement read. These companies are well capitalized and meet or exceed local regulatory capital requirements. The companies continue to operate in the normal course to meet obligations to policyholders. Barton, however, said that consumers are unlikely to distinguish between AIGs insurance division and its other financial units. What matters to them, he said, is that the entire company was on the verge of collapse. It makes total sense that AIG was running a sound insurance division, Barton said. We know that for a fact; we know their insurance products were sound. But if Im a client sitting there in El Paso or Spokane or Portland, Maine, AIG is one company. It doesnt matter what the product is. Its kind of like Wal-Mart. It doesnt matter if the shampoo is bad or the cash register doesnt work  its one company.Whats next? First and foremost, Hartwig said, clients, prospects, and agents should continue to look at the financial strength ratings of potential insurers. Several credit rating agencies downgraded AIG earlier this week. Standard &amp;amp; Poors dropped the companys rating to A-, Moodys to A2, and Fitch to A.  He added that the AIG crisis and resulting bailout provide an opportunity for agents to keep their longtime customers informed about the current financial climate and provide both existing and new clients with options based on their goals and risk tolerance. Ultimately, Hartwig said, time is of the essence: Dont wait for your clients to contact you. Reach out to them now with the latest news, regardless of whether they hold AIG policies or not. And let them know whats next to the best of your ability. Even though the headlines today are that AIG got $85 billion from the Fed, which is better than AIG may declare bankruptcy like they said yesterday, many people still dont know what that means, Hartwig said. Moreover, other people may separately believe some other insurer will be impacted next. Its the agents duty, then, to get the best information and relay that to their customers. Barton added that while other companies may remain financially secure, the resulting shock waves will be felt throughout the insurance and financial services industries. When you have an icon brand collapse, it makes it harder for everyone, he said. I dont care who they work for  nobody celebrates this. Its a loss to the entire industry and a loss for all agents. Theyll need to work doubly hard to regain the trust of their clients.Christina Pellett is managing editor of the Agents Sales Journal. She can be reached at This email address is being protected from spam bots, you need Javascript enabled to view it or 800-933-9449 ext. 226.Additional informationReaching out to Clients after the AIG Crisis: A Formula for Crafting Proactive Crisis Management Letters (Click Here ) National Organization of Life &amp;amp; Health Insurance Guaranty Associations policyholder information page (Click Here )AIG (Click Here)U.S. to Take Over AIG in $85 Billion Bailout (Wall Street Journal)
