Acting to avert a possible financial crisis worldwide, the Federal Reserve reversed course on Tuesday and agreed to a $85 billion bailout that would give the government an ownership stake in troubled insurance giant American International Group, according to people briefed on the negotiations.The decision, only two weeks after the Treasury took over quasi-government mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is the most radical intervention in private business in the central bank's history.With time running out after AIG failed to get a bank loan to avoid bankruptcy, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke convened a meeting with House and Senate leaders on Capitol Hill about 6:30 p.m. Tuesday to explain the rescue plan.They emerged with Paulson and Bernanke looking grim but top lawmakers generally expressing support for the plan. But the bailout is likely to prove controversial, because it effectively puts taxpayer money at risk while protecting bad investments made by AIG and other institutions it does business with.What frightened Fed and Treasury officials was not simply the prospect of another giant corporate bankruptcy, but AIG's its role as an enormous provider of financial insurance, which effectively requires it to cover losses suffered by other institutions in the instance of defaults of securities that they have purchased. That means AIG is potentially on the hook for securities that were once considered safe.If AIG had collapsed -- and been unable to pay all of its insurance claims -- institutional investors around the world would have been instantly forced to reappraise the value of billions of dollars in debt securities, which in turn would have reduced their own capital and the value of their own debt. 'It would have been a chain reaction,' said Uwe Reinhardt, a professor of economics at Princeton University. 'The spillover effects could have been incredible.' Financial markets, which on Monday had plunged over worries about AIG's possible collapse, reacted with relief to the news of the bailout. In anticipation of a deal, stocks rose about 1 percent in the U.S. on Tuesday and were up about 2 percent in early trading in Asian markets this morning.Florida officials have been watching the situation closely.Florida's insurance customers could be on the hook for hundreds of millions of dollars if insurers owned by AIG were to fail. AIG owns 47 companies that sell homeowners, auto, commercial and life insurance and annuities in Florida. As of 2007, the company ranked as the state's largest commercial lines carrier, the No. 7 auto insurer and the 11th-largest homeowners insurer, paying more than $950 million in claims to those customers last year.Experts say those insurance companies are solvent now, but if they were to go under, state-run guaranty funds would step in and pay any claims. The funds assess insurance companies to raise money for those claims and those insurers pass on the costs to their Florida policyholders.State Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty has been monitoring the AIG situation 'very closely' Ed Domansky, spokesman for the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, said Tuesday. 'He also has been in regular contact with his counterparts in New York and Pennsylvania, the two states that have regulatory control over the bulk of AIG and their business,' Domansky said. AIG operates a range of insurance and financial services businesses, including property, casualty, auto and life insurance and annuity and investment services. And unlike the parent company, those operations were considered healthy, and policyholders would likely be covered even if AIG were to have filed for bankruptcy protection, said Donald Light, a senior analyst with Celent.If individual insurance companies failed and were taken over by the state, homeowners, commercial lines and auto policies would be picked by the Florida Insurance Guaranty Association.FIGA, as its known, has lately covered more than $800 million in unpaid claims from failed property insurer Poe Financial Group. Those claims are capped at $300,000. Florida's insured homeowners have been assessed 2 percent of their premiums -- $40 for every $2,000 -- for three years to cover the Poe claims.Commercial property, medical malpractice and aircraft insurance policies are also assessed.Life insurance and annuities claims would be handled by the Florida Life &amp;amp; Health Insurance Guaranty Association. Companies under that association are assessed to cover payouts, which are capped at $100,000 for cash surrenders and at $300,000 for payout values. But the companies do not surcharge customers. Instead, they use credits to lower their premium taxes with the state.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners stressed Tuesday that troubled AIG is a separate entity from its subsidiary insurers. 'We have a strong message for consumers: If you have a policy with an AIG insurance company, they are solvent and have the capability to pay claims,' said Sandy Praeger, the Kansas insurance commissioner who is head of the NAIC.Meanwhile, at the national level, the move to rescue AIG will likely spark an intense political debate during the presidential election campaign over who is to blame for the financial crisis that prompted the rescue.The decision to rescue AIG came on the same day that the Federal Reserve decided to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 2 percent, turning aside hopes by many on Wall Street that the Fed would try to shore up confidence by cutting rates once again.Information from Herald-Tribune writer John Hielscher was used in this report.
