* Global stocks gain as U.S. manufacturing data stirs hope  * Dollar slips on jobs data, but G20 limits losses  * Oil falls below $48 as U.S. inventories hit 16-year high (Recasts with U.S. markets, changes dateline, previous LONDON)  NEW YORK, April 1 (Reuters) - Global stocks rose on Wednesday after U.S. home sales and manufacturing data offered investors a glimmer of hope that a deep recession was easing, but oil fell as 16-year highs in U.S. crude inventories sent the opposite message.  The U.S. dollar rose against the euro but was little changed against the yen as caution before a Group of 20 summit in London and a European Central Bank meeting blunted news of more steep U.S. job losses last month.  Oil fell fell more than 4.0 percent at one point to below $48, pressured by the bearish economic news and the surprising rise in U.S. crude inventories.  Yields on shorter-dated euro zone government bonds fell to their lowest in three weeks on the eve of a widely expected ECB rate cut, but rising equity prices kept a lid on longer-dated debt in Europe. [ID:nL1550646] U.S. government debt was mixed.  Financial shares turned around following the manufacturing and homes data as investors bet an improvement in the economic outlook will boost financial activity.  JPMorgan Chase (JPM.N) up 4.1 percent to $27.66 while Bank of America (BAC.N) gained 3.8 percent to $7.08.  The contraction in U.S. factory activity slowed in March, and U.S. construction spending fell at a slower-than-expected rate in February, data that investors in equity markets took as a sign recovery may be on the horizon.  Financial shares turned around following release of the data on bets an improving economy will boost financial activity. JPMorgan Chase (JPM.N) up 3.7 percent to $27.56 while Bank of America (BAC.N) gained 3.5 percent to $7.06.  In Europe, Barclays (BARC.L) rose 6.1 percent, Credit Suisse (CSGN.VX) gained 5.9 percent and BNP Paribas (BNPP.PA) added 5.5 percent. ING (ING.AS) rose 8.4 percent.  A slightly better-than-expected reading of 36.3 in the U.S. Institute for Supply Management index sparked a turnaround in European markets. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  'It is still below 50 but it is very positive,' said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, equity strategist at Postbank in Bonn, Germany.  'It is good news after the bad news that already came in,' Sonnenschein said, referring to the ADP private sector jobs report that shows 742,000 positions were cut in March. Continued...  
