Behind the panic:   Financial Warfare over future of global bank power   F. William Engdahl   www.engdahl.oilgeopolitics.net/   Oct 10, 2008      What&amp;#039;s clear from the behavior of European financial markets over  the past two weeks is that the dramatic stories of financial  meltdown and panic are deliberately being used by certain  influential factions in and outside the EU to shape the future face  of global banking in the wake of the US sub-prime and Asset-Backed  Security (ABS) debacle. The most interesting development in recent  days has been the unified and strong position of the German  Chancellor, Finance Minister, Bundesbank and coalition Government,  all opposing an American-style EU Superfund bank bailout. Meanwhile  Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson pursues his Crony Capitalism to  the detriment of the nation and benefit of his cronies in the  financial world. It&amp;#039;s an explosive cocktail that need not have  been.      Stock market falls of 7 to 10% a day make for dramatic news  headlines and serve to foster a broad sense of unease bordering on  panic among ordinary citizens. The events of the last two weeks  among EU banks since the dramatic state rescues of Hypo Real  Estate, Dexia and Fortis banks, and the announcement by UK  Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling of a radical shift in  policy in dealing with troubled UK banks, have begun to reveal the  outline of a distinctly different European response to what in  effect is a crisis &amp;#039;Made in USA.&amp;#039;      There is serious ground to believe that US Goldman Sachs ex CEO  Henry Paulson, as Treasury Secretary, is not stupid. There is also  serious ground to believe that he is actually moving according to a  well-thought-out long-term strategy. Events as they are now  unfolding in the EU tend to confirm that. As one senior European  banker put it to me in a private discussion, &amp;#039;There is an all-out  war going on between the United States and the EU to define the  future face of European banking.&amp;#039;      In this banker&amp;#039;s view, the ongoing attempt of Italian Prime  Minister Silvio Berlusconi and France&amp;#039;s Nicolas Sarkozy to get an  EU common &amp;#039;fund&amp;#039;, with perhaps upwards of $300 billion to rescue  troubled banks, would de facto play directly into Paulson and the  US establishment&amp;#039;s long-term strategy, by in effect weakening the  banks and repaying US-originated Asset Backed Securities held by EU  banks.      Using panic to centralize power      As I document in my forthcoming book, Power of Money: The Rise and  Decline of the American Century, in every major US financial panic  since at least the Panic of 1835, the titans of Wall Street - most  especially until 1929, the House of JP Morgan - have deliberately  triggered bank panics behind the scenes in order to consolidate  their grip on US banking. The private banks used the panics to  control Washington policy including the exact definition of the  private ownership of the new Federal Reserve in 1913, and to  consolidate their control over industry such as US Steel,  Caterpillar, Westinghouse and the like. They are, in short, old  hands at such financial warfare to increase their power.      Now they must do something similar on a global scale to be able to  continue to dominate global finance, the heart of the power of the  American Century.      That process of using panics to centralize their private power  created an extremely powerful, concentration of financial and  economic power in a few private hands, the same hands which created  the influential US foreign policy think-tank, the New York Council  on Foreign Relations in 1919 to guide the ascent of the American  Century, as Time founder Henry Luce called it in a pivotal 1941  essay.      It&amp;#039;s becoming increasingly obvious that people like Henry Paulson,  who by the way was one of the most aggressive practitioners of the  ABS revolution on Wall Street before becoming Treasury Secretary,  are operating on motives beyond their over-proportional sense of  greed. Paulson&amp;#039;s own background is interesting in that context.  Back in the early 1970&amp;#039;s Paulson started his career working for a  rather notorious man named John Erlichman, Nixon&amp;#039;s ruthless adviser  who created the Plumbers&amp;#039; Unit during the Watergate era to silence  opponents of the President, and was left by Nixon to &amp;#039;twist in the  wind&amp;#039; for it in prison.      Paulson seems to have learned from his White House mentor. As  co-chairman of Goldman Sachs according to a New York Times account,  in 1998 he forced out his co-chairman, Jon Corzine &amp;#039;in what  amounted to a coup&amp;#039; according to the Times.      Paulson, and his friends at Citigroup and JP Morgan Chase, had a  strategy it is becoming clear, as did the Godfather of Asset Backed  Securitization and deregulated banking, former Fed Chairman Alan  Greenspan, as I have detailed in my earlier series here, Financial  Tsunami, Parts I-V.      Knowing that at a certain juncture the pyramid of trillions of  dollars of dubious sub-prime and other high risk home  mortgage-based securities would come falling down, they apparently  determined to spread the so-called &amp;#039;toxic waste&amp;#039; ABS securities as  globally as possible, in order to seduce the big global banks of  the world, most especially of the EU, into their honey trap.      They had help. In recent testimony under oath by Eric Dinallo, the  Superintendent of the New York Insurance Department at the AIG  Bailout Oversight Hearing, into the AIG rescue by Paulson, Dinallo  testified that funding cutbacks in recent years directed by the  Bush-Cheney Administration had reduced the responsible department  that should regulate or watch over the $80 trillions in Asset  Backed Securities (ABS), which included the toxic sub-prime and  Alt-A mortgage securities and much more. The Bush Administration  took the staff from more than one hundred people down to one---yes  that was not a typo. One as in &amp;#039;uno.&amp;#039;      Was that just ideological budget cutting fervor, or was it  deliberate? Was former Goldman Sachs man, the man who convinced the  President to hire Paulson, Bush&amp;#039;s former Director of the Office of  Management and Budget (OMB), Joshua Bolten, now the President&amp;#039;s  Chief of Staff, responsible for insuring there was no effective  government oversight on the exploding securitization of mortgage  assets?      These are perhaps some questions which the good Congressmen ought  to be asking people like Henry Paulson and Josh Bolten, and not  such red herring questions as how large Richard Fuld&amp;#039;s bonus pay at  Lehman was. Are Mr Bolten&amp;#039;s fingerprints on the corpse here? And  why is no one questioning the role of Paulson as CEO of Goldman  Sachs, then the most aggressive promoter of exotic and other Asset  Backed Securitization products on Wall Street?      It now would appear that the Paulson strategy was to use a crisis -  a crisis that was pre-programmed and predictable as far back as  2003 when Josh Bolten became head of OMB - when it exploded, to  panic the more conservative European Union governments into rushing  to the rescue of US toxic waste assets.      Were that to have happened, it would in the process destroy what  was left of sound EU banking and financial institutions, bringing  the world one step closer to a global money market controlled by  Paulson&amp;#039;s cronies - US-style Crony Capitalism. Crony Capitalism is  certainly appropriate here. Paulson&amp;#039;s predecessor at both Goldman  Sachs and at Treasury, Robert Rubin, liked to accuse the Asian  bankers of Thailand, Indonesia and other lands hit with the  speculative attacks of US-financed hedge funds in 1997 of &amp;#039;crony  capitalism,&amp;#039; leaving the impression the crisis was home grown in  Asia and not the result of a deliberate executed attack by  US-financed financial institutions to eliminate the Asia Tiger  model among other goals, and turn Asia into the funder of US  debt.      Interesting to note is that Rubin is now a Director of Citigroup,  obviously one of Paulson&amp;#039;s crony bank &amp;#039;survivors,&amp;#039; and the bank  which to date has had to write off the largest sum in toxic waste  securitized assets.      If the allegation of pre-planned panic, a la the Panic of 1907 is  accurate, and it is a big if, then the plan workedup to a point.  That point came over the weekend of October 3, coincidentally the  national unification holiday of Germany.      Germany breaks with US model      In closed door talks well into the evening of Sunday October 5,  Alex Weber the hard-nosed head of the Bundesbank, BaFin head Jochen  Sanio and representatives of the Berlin coalition Government of  Chancellor Merkel came up with a rescue package for Hypo Real  Estate of a nominal &amp;amp;#8364;50 billion. However, behind the dramatic  headline number, as Weber pointed out in a September 29 letter to  Finance Minister Peer Steinbr&amp;amp;uuml;ck that has been made public,  not only did the private German banks have to come up with 60% of  that figure, the state with 40%. But also, given the careful manner  in which the Government in cooperation with the Bundesbank and  BaFin, structured the rescue credit agreement, the maximum possible  loss, in a worst case scenario, to the state would be limited to  &amp;amp;#8364;5.7 billion, not &amp;amp;#8364;30 billion as many believed. It&amp;#039;s  still real money but not the blank check for $700 billion that a US  Congress under duress and a few days of falling stock market prices  agreed to give Paulson.      The swift action by Finance Minister Steinbr&amp;amp;uuml;ck to fire the  head of HRE, in stark contrast to Wall Street where the same  criminal fraudsters remain at their desks reaping huge bonuses,  indicates as well a different approach. But that does not cut to  the heart of the issue. The situation of HRE arose as noted  previously, from excesses in a wholly-owned daughter bank of HRE  subsidiary DEPFA in Ireland, an EU country known for its liberal  loose regulation and low tax regime.      A British policy shift      In the UK, after the costly and foolish bailout of Northern Rock  ...
