Hope builds for stock recovery in new year? Pros share predictionsUpdated 12/16/2008 8:30 PMBy Robert Deutsch, USA TODAYThe USA TODAY Investment Roundtable participants were, from left: Dan Chung, CEO and chief investment officer at Fred Alger Management; Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors; Thomas Lee, chief U.S. equity strategist, JPMorgan Chase; Brian Rogers, chairman and chief investment officer of T. Rowe Price; and Linda Duessel, equity market strategist, Federated Investors.http://www.usatoday.com/money/markets/2008-12-14-stock-market-roundtable-investors_N.htm (Videos)USA TODAY'S 2009 INVESTMENT ROUNDTABLEBy Adam Shell, USA TODAYNEW YORK  For most investors, this year can't end fast enough. Next up: 2009, which is a clean slate, a fresh start.But the new year also inherits the same problems that in 2008 drove the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index down as much as 52% from its high  the worst bear market drop since the 1930s. The economy, 12 months into a recession, is on life support. Banks in survival mode are reluctant to lend. Consumers, spooked by job losses, dwindling 401(k)s and tighter credit, are hunkering down.It is with that grim backdrop that USA TODAY held its 13th annual Investment Roundtable, picking the brains of five top investment pros about the outlook for 2009.The panelists, despite scary headlines, say it's a mistake for investors to pull their money out of stocks and stash the cash under a mattress  partly because the mattress pays zero interest and partly because those investors will miss out on opportunities when stocks rebound."If you believe the world doesn't end that often, and you believe good companies don't disappear, I think it is actually a good time to invest," says Brian Rogers, chairman and chief investment officer at T. Rowe Price.All the panelists predict stocks will end 2009 in positive territory. But they warn that the market is likely to trade in a V-shaped pattern, which means more scary plunges along the way.The most bearish was Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer at Johnson Illington Advisors. He says investors should cut back their stock exposure until trends improve.A key to the year is how successful President-elect Barack Obama's stimulus plan is in generating jobs and getting the economy back on track, says Linda Duessel, equity market strategist at Federated Investors.Barring an economic hard landing in China, the badly depressed U.S. stock market offers some good values and could enjoy double-digit gains in '09, predicts Dan Chung, CEO and chief investment officer at Alger Funds.Despite comparisons to the Great Depression, today's crisis, while serious, doesn't compare, adds Thomas Lee, chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase.MARKET OUTLOOK: Will stocks earn a bigger return than cash in 2009?Stocks are down 40% this year. Banks are failing. Some warn of a Depression. People are scared. Should they pull all their money out of stocks and put it under a mattress?Hugh Johnson: Since it is so easy to be wrong in this business, going to such an extreme position under any market conditions is usually a mistake. But my rule is to never ignore the primary trends. And those trends are clearly very negative now.Most long-term investors should have no less than 35% of their money invested in stocks and no more than 65%. I am not smart enough to know when we are at the bottom. So I am advising a very low exposure to stocks. If you have a higher stock allocation, or are closer to 65% and made the mistake of not reducing it, you should go to 35%.Is cash really king?Linda Duessel: Well, cash and the U.S. Treasury market. But you have to try to keep emotion out of this. My fear for the average American is that he will sell low, as many people did in October, and forget to get back in when the market rebounds and will buy high again.Yes, this is the worst financial crisis we have seen in our lifetimes. People ask, "We were down 52% (from the high), should I sell now?"We don't think so.We think stocks will successfully retest the Nov. 20 lows of roughly 750 on the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index (vs. 880 Friday). But even if corporate earnings take a big hit next year, which we think they will, 750 on the S&amp;P 500 still prices in a lot of bad news. If you are truly a long-term investor, and have an opportunity to buy stocks at a low price, even if the market goes down another 10% or 15%, it is time to peel back into the market.Dan Chung: You are asking a market-timing question. Should we be in cash? When do we get back in? The answer is you should be in now, always and forever unless you have a two-year horizon. Don't try to time whether this thing ends in April or July or January 2010. The real issue is, where are the opportunities for investors now? Even at the end of Great Depression there was a 100% rally.Johnson: Look at what dollar-cost averaging (a strategy of putting cash to work on a regular basis) would have done for you from 1929 to 1938. The market was down 54% during that period but if you put $1,000 in at the start of each year from 1929 to 1939, youwould have been up 6%.Chung: It is important to remind investors that are seeking safety in short-term Treasury bonds or cash, that they are getting absolutely no return for that. If you miss something like the five or 10 best days in the stock market, your returns long term decline to basically zero.Look at the volatility in the stock market. We got an 18% rally the week of Thanksgiving but gave up 9% in a day. That rally isa sign of what we will see on the up side when stocks turn.How can one intelligently navigate this market?Brian Rogers: The world doesn't end that often. So I am more in the camp that this is a very severe financial situation, but not 1929. Good companies don't disappear, although recent experience has led some of us to question that.An awful lot of stress is reflected in today's market. Values are way down. If you believe the world doesn't end that often, and you believe good companies don't disappear, I think it is actually a good time to invest.Unlike Hugh, I think investors who have a low stock exposure have to move the other way. You want to be increasing exposure to stocks. With the government's policy responses and the new Obama administration, the seeds of the recovery will be in place at some point and better days will be ahead.Is a depression on the way?Thomas Lee: Housing values, the biggest asset for most people, are going to decline another 15% to 20%. You are still talking about a massive deleveraging happening across all debt markets. For that reason, U.S. households have got to be very protective of how they invest in stocks, because that is another risk asset for them. Still, I would say with pretty strong confidence that I don't think this compares to the Great Depression.We have been able to piece together GDP statistics from the 1920s. One thing that really struck us is that the stock market in August 1921 began a massive bull market that saw stocks rise 500% through September 1929. GDP rose 44% during that period. The decline that followed to the 1932 low reversed the entire rise of both the stock market and GDP.By comparison, GDP since 2002 has risen 30% through 2007 and the stock market was only up 90%. We haven't even had the condition of a bubble that really drove us to the 1929 highs.Is it time to be fearful or to look for opportunities?Chung: The market is part psychology, part fundamentals. At the best of times it is 50/50; and at the worst of times the swing factor is emotions, which go from euphoria to fear.Unfortunately, as human beings we are not particularly good at controlling our emotions. The classic flight or fight response is programmed for millions of years in our genes.It is clear things have fallen off a cliff in many sectors. The opportunity is to try to sort through companies that are now better positioned. The strong ones can take advantage of the bad economy in the sense that it is eliminating competition for them. Companies coming out of this will gain market share and improve their competitive position.Timing-wise, it is time to increase equity positions over the next six months. The market will start to recover far in advance of fundamentals. That's typical of the end of most bear markets. We wouldn't necessarily be going in hand in fist. That kind of euphoria would be inappropriate.Is all the bad news on the economy and profits already reflected in stock prices?Chung: The current earnings estimates for the S&amp;P 500 for '09 are too high ($82.60, according to Thomson Reuters) and that is why I am throwing out the $50 to $65 range. What is really fascinating, so many people are focused on looking into the darkness expected in '09. They're forgetting the market is not just about '09, but about 2010, 2011, 2012. There will be a recovery. The market is already discounting that.Are stocks cheap?Duessel: Until very recently the operating earnings projection for 2009 was a touch over $100. At Federated we say, okay, in the '73-'75 downturn earnings fell 73%. So why don't we cut '09 by $40 and take it to $60? What price should we pay for $60 of earnings, which is low and Draconian.The average price per $1 dollar of earnings paid at market bottoms since 1957 is 13.8 times. Take 13 and multiply that by $60 and you get 780 (estimated value) for the S&amp;P 500. That is close to the 752 low we hit on November 20th, which is also close to the market bottom of the 2002 recession.If you look at the price paid for earnings at the two bear market lows of the big consumer-led recessions, in the '70s and early '80s, they were seven to eight times, instead of 13. Do we have to go that low? No, because inflation is much lower this time.Johnson: I had an awful experience in '73-'74, another in '81-'82. I don't tell you this to show I am old but to contradict. The one mistake I made in the '70s was basing my invest...
