 BUSH AMBUSHED at Last and OBAMANIA Hits the Galaxy!Troubled Galaxy Destroyed Dreams: Chapter 149 Palash Biswas Martin Luther King, Jr.: I Have a Dreamhttp://in.youtube.com/watch?v=iEMXaTktUfAMartin Luther King, Jr.'s last speechhttp://in.youtube.com/watch?v=o0FiCxZKuv8Barack Obama Speaks at Dr. King's ChurchOn the day before the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, Senator Barack Obama delivers a speech to the congregation of Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia. http://in.youtube.com/watch?v=Kf0x_TpDrisBarack Obama: 'A More Perfect Union' (Full Speech)http://in.youtube.com/watch?v=zrp-v2tHaDoPresident-Elect Barack Obama in ChicagoBarack Obama was elected the 44th President of the United States on November 4th, 2008 in Chicago. http://in.youtube.com/watch?v=Jll5baCAaQUSuper Tuesday SpeechBarack Obama speaks to a roaring crowd in Chicago, Illinois on the night of his victories throughout the primaries and caucuses of Super Tuesday. http://in.youtube.com/watch?v=8dzHDzvTfzQWarmonger George BUSH, the GREATEST ICON of ZIONIST WAR ECONOMY, has been AMBUSHED at last by the EMPOWERED People of United states Of America and OBAMANIA TSUNAMI hits the GALAXY! It is a CHANGE welcomed by the world with HOPE most Positive. but it seems rather a diofferent scenerion in India thanks to India Inc SATYAM ASATYAM and the FDI FED TOILET MEDIA!Barack Obama has ridden his train to Washington, DC, and is ready to swear the oath of office on Abraham Lincoln's own bible at noon on Tuesday January 20th ...Two days from the White House, President-elect Barack Obama joined a vast throng Sunday at a joyous pre-inauguration celebration staged among marble monuments to past heroes. "Anything is possible in America," declared the man who will confront an economic crisis and two wars when he takes office. "Despite the enormity of the task that lies ahead, I stand here today as hopeful as ever that the United States of America will endure  that it will prevail, that the dream of our founders will live on in our time," the president-elect said at the conclusion of a musical extravaganza that featured U2, Beyonce, Bruce Springsteen and a host of other stars. Obama and his family held the seats of honor at the event, and a crowd of tens of thousands spilled from the base of the Lincoln Memorial toward the Washington Monument several blocks away in the cold, gray afternoon of mid-January. The BRAHAMINICAL PRIDE of Bengal,the SELF STYLED Mouthpiece of bengali nationality Anand Bazar Patrika mourns for War Monger Bush! The 13 lac Circulated daily news supports Buddhadeb and His Marxist Ways of Capitalism but opposes vehemently Marxism and the Party ruling West Bengal, the CPIM! Our Comrade Friends may not start their day without reading anand bazar Patrika  which , perhaps , might be the only News Paper on this planet which justified US Aggression onIRAQ and Afaganistan. The daily is a valient CRUSADER for SEZDRIVE, Refugee Deportation and war against imperialism! The EDIT published today pointed out the BLUNDERS of george Bush which created so much Crisis for the UNIPOLAR Superpower. then it paraises the BUTCHER for hias INITIATIVE  to operationalise the INDO US NUclear deal! It emphasises most on  INDO US strategic RELATIONSHIP strengthened during BUSH Regime and hopes it to continue even in OBAMANIA Period! President George W. Bush said Friday that while the current economic crisis has sent shock waves around the world, he believes steps taken by his administration have "laid the groundwork for a return to economic growth and job creation" early in the administration of President-elect Barack Obama. Ananda bazar and Indian media also sets the TUNE to voice INDIA friendly Bush Junior! While, US President-elect Obama forewarned Americans of the tough days ahead and said that meeting the challenges will be tough. Meanwhile, a Wisconsin man was arrested in Mississippi for threatening to kill President-elect Barack Obama on his January 20 inauguration!Lest we should not MISS the WARMONGER anymore, INDIA may boast for the MOST LETHAL TRIO tohold the POWER Brahaminical, Pranab Mukherjee, Lal Krishna Adwani or Narendra Modi and Buddhadeb Bhattacharya continuing the GENOCIDE Culture! Pranab speaks in Language Americanism! While DR Amartya sen, another Bengali KULIN Brahaminical ICON, the most suitable Spokesperson  for india Inc and LPG mafia as well as THE RULING MARXIST BRAHAMINICAL hegemony remains there and you may not have to mourn for OUTGOING PAULSON. Hillary Clinton suits well the Hindutva zionist psyche  as the BLACK WOMAN Condy Darling departs!Keeping up with the strong line being adopted on terror, External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee on Monday called for adopting zero tolerance stand towards terrorism and dismantling of terrorist infrastructure wherever it exists. In an apparent reference to Pakistans non fulfillment of its commitments to tackle terror with an iron hand, the minister said that those who go back on their words must pay. Underlining the fact that terrorism is a global issue, Mukherjee underlined, We need an international committee to tackle terror.    He also said that it is the duty of the respective governments to prevent their territory from being used for fomenting terror.Earlier, Minister of State for Defence PC Raju gave thumbs down to investigations by Pakistan and said, Efforts made by Pak till now on 26/11 evidence are eyewash. Commenting on the Islamic nations political set up and the well documented subservient nature of the government to the Army and ISI, the minister said, There are several power centres in Pakistan and the government has no control over them.The governments tough line comes at a time when Pakistan is briefing the envoys on its investigation into the Mumbai terror attacks and the steps taken by it. The TELEGRAPH, the sister of Anand bazar patrica Published today a SURVEY report to PROVE INDIA as the BEST Friend of america! Just read:Indians are Americas best friends in world REUTERS AND OUR BUREAU   Jan. 18: A poll has revealed that India and Poland are the only two countries with major economies, apart from America itself, that view the US favourably.Indias score of 72  the percentage of its people who approve of America  leaves Poland (53) far behind and runs the US (74) close.India was the lone country other than the US where a majority said America does contribute to international peace and co-operation.The findings were made public ahead of Barack Obamas inauguration. But the online survey was conducted in late November after Obamas election, which makes it difficult to conclude whether the results endorse Prime Minister Manmohan Singhs statement to George W. Bush in September that the people of India deeply love you.If the Prime Minister, as the head of the government, meant that India as a nation loves the US as another country, which happened to be represented by Bush then, the poll results do vindicate Singh.But the outcome cannot be delinked entirely from Bush. Although his presidency had slipped into the lame-duck phase in November, the opinions reflected would have had a lot to do with his policies, with the US drawing the harshest criticism in the survey for its foreign policy.The findings come at a time India is witnessing a burst of political incorrectness, with some industrialists hailing the riot-tainted Narendra Modi as a model.The poll was conducted on behalf of Reuters by Ipsos Global Public Affairs, a market research and polling company. It surveyed 22,000 people from 22 countries that account for 75 per cent of the worlds GDP.Although Reuters said that only in India and Poland did a majority back America, it added that pro-US respondents outnumbered anti-US ones in six other countries. It did not clarify whether a large number of dont knows kept the America backers under 50 per cent in these six.It was a tie in Britain and South Korea. Israel was not surveyed; nor was any Muslim nation other than Turkey.Asked what they thought was important for a country to be respected, most respondents put human rights at No. 1, followed by citizens rights and contribution to international peace.The US standard of living  the probable reason for a steady flow of immigrants even from the America-bashing countries  and contribution to the global economy drew good reviews, but those surveyed ranked those values far lower in importance. http://www.telegraphindia.com/1090119/jsp/frontpage/story_10410350.jspCoincidentally, STAR ANAND, the electronic media owned by Ananda Publications and Star TV aired a DOCU Feature on the LIVING LEGEND of BENGALI SILVER screen SUCHITRA SEN glamourising her SPRITUAL life as well as Ram KRISHNA MISSION which once again sustains the BRAHAMINICAL HEGEMONY challenged by several recent insurrections including Singur, Nandigram and Lalgarh. This happens to be the ANAND EQUATION of Fascist HINDUISM and ZIONIST US CORPORATE Imperialism!With just hours left in his presidency, President George W. Bush on Monday made a round of phone calls to about a dozen leaders around the globe.The White House said Bush chatted with: President Mikhail Saakashvili of Georgia; President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia; President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea; Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen of Denmark; Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy; former President Vicente Fox of Mexico; Prime Minister Taro Aso of Japan; and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain; President Shimon Peres of Israel; and Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.National Security Council spokesman Gordon Johndroe said that during the farewell calls, Bush thanked the leaders for the hospitality they had shown him and first lady Laura Bush over the years.The Obama administration has geared itself for not only a smooth transition, but also pushing its agenda on fast-track from Day One. Taking the reins of power at a time of great economic cri...
