Vivek Ahuja, of our brother publication Financial News, sends this dispatch from last night&amp;#8217;s IFR awards in London.  It was somewhat fitting that the entertainment at Monday nights International Financing Review awards included an Abba tribute band, since the Swedish supergroup&amp;#8217;s lyrics have become painfully poignant in the wake of the shattering events for the investment-banking industry last year. Despite months of market turmoil and reports of potential demonstrations outside the venue, bankers turned out in force, and their determination to put on a brave face, for one evening at least, could have been amply expressed by the lines from Abba hit &amp;#8220;The Winner Takes It All&amp;#8221;: &amp;#8220;I dont wanna talk/ About the things weve gone through/ Though its hurting me/ Now its history.&amp;#8221; Even J.P. Morgan, the big winner on the night after scooping most of the top awards, was unusually restrained in its delight, as the shadow of former rivals that fell by the wayside last year hung over the event. The main room at Londons Grosvenor House Hotel was packed, although the turnout was far lower than in previous years and the atmosphere initially subdued. As the night wore on with no protesters in sight, the industry breathed a sigh of relief and allowed itself to relax. Rival banks, used to jostling for bragging rights at the event, initially seemed unsure how to behave given last years unprecedented turbulence, huge losses and the ensuing public backlash against their industry. The traditional tombstone fund-raising for the Save The Children charity raised less than half the previous years 1.6 million ($2.4 million, but as football pundit and compere Mark Lawrenson noted, it was a laudable effort by banks to raise more than 600,000 at this years event given their woes in recent months and the hostile economic climate. The tombstone part of the event has unsurprisingly given rise to some novel and intricate strategies by banks in past years, with examples of firms arranging last-minute co-ordinated bids to leapfrog their rivals and gain top standing. Not only was that rivalry absent this time, but one couldn&amp;#8217;t help be struck by the small number of banks on the final tombstone&amp;#8211;a reflection of how many of the financial markets most well-known names have disappeared in the past 12 months. Among them, Merrill Lynch, which featured on the tombstone under the auspices of the new-look Bank of America, and Lehman Brothers, which despite its collapse last September was able to participate thanks to a bid from its new owner in Europe, Japanese bank Nomura. J.P. Morgan, which took over rival Bear Stearns last year, reaped the rewards of its strength while rivals suffered last year. The U.S. bank, represented on the night by large numbers of its cohorts led by investment banking co-chief executives Bill Winters and Steven Black, took home a dozen awards including the top overall Bank of the Year mantle after claiming the awards for leveraged finance, securitization, derivatives, equities, and bonds. BNP Paribas, which was loan house of the year, and Credit Suisse Group, which scooped the emerging market bond award, were the only other banks to win any of the top awards. Winters and Black, while understandably proud of JP Morgans achievements, were sober in their acceptance speeches. Black struck a chord with the sentiments of rivals around the room as he said: &amp;#8220;I think wed all agree weve come in for some criticism, some warranted, most of it not.&amp;#8221; The lighter mood by the time of the awards owed much to the relentlessly mocking brand of humour of last nights host Omid Djalili, who has starred in films including The Mummy and Pirates of the Caribbean - At Worlds End, and describes himself as the UKs only Iranian comedian  three more than Germany, as he put it last night. After the awards, Abba tribute band Bjorn Again took over as they performed some pop classics and guests gradually ventured onto the dancefloor as, for one night at least, it was once again a rich mans world despite the SOS calls of last year.        
