Operation Cold Lead--the IDF's ongoing operations against the genocidal Jihadist group calling itself Hamas--has entered its third week.  The useless dhimmis of the UN, EU, et al are wringing their hands about the deaths of Hamas' human shields and whining about 'ceasefires'.  The IDF isn't at all interested in a return to the status quo antebellum--i.e. one way ceasefires that only apply to Israel--and Hamas hasn't asked for a hudna.  Not for the moment, at any rate.Meanwhile, back in Malaysia, increasingly agitated Muslims are raising the temperature and venting rage at the dreaded Zionist-Crusader entity by boycotting Coca-Cola and demonstrating in front of the US embassy, by the thousands.  Of course, I'm sure the protesters outside the aforementioned embassy and elsewhere are never ever arrested for not having the proper permits to hold a public assembly.  Malaysians protesting their own government is decidedly haram, but railing against the US?  Not a problem with UMNO!But is that all Malaysia's mighty Muslims can accomplish?  Stop buying Coke and march for an hour or so burning flags and chanting slogans?  Hey Muslims, don't you read your government's own press releases?  Innocent Muslims are dying!  The US and Israel are evil!   Dont cha know there's a war on?So why aren't Malaysia's noble defenders of Islam declaring war against that illegal country calling itself Israel?  Why has Malaysia not declared war on the US?  Why aren't American companies in Malaysia like McDonalds, Starbucks and Citibank being torched into ashes and chased out of the country post haste?  Why aren't all those piss-and-vinegar Malays being issued weapons and being sent off to war to save their beleaguered brothers in Gaza?  After all, Jihad is Holy War, and Jihad is what you Muslims need to do to get to that brothel-in-the-sky you call Paradise, right?  Hey Muslims, isn't Jihad called for right now?  So why the hesitation to follow through?  What more are you waiting for?The only explanation is that these slogan-chanting Malaysians, and the ministers who speak for them, are cowards...hypocritical cowards.  Munafiq, munafiq, munafiq
