A reader writes: I get the fact that you dont like coal. However, what do you propose in its place? Public awareness regarding the issuessurroundingcoal, for starters. The coal/utility industrysad campaign and it&#8217;s promotionof &#8220;clean coal&#8221; is doing nothing more than slowingthe transition to clean renewable sources of energy. Yes,somewill argue that coal is a cheap abundant resourcebut the true costs of its extraction, processing andwaste management (coal slurry waste disposal)are extremely high, especially the environmental cost. Our use of coal leads to ravaged mountains, air pollution, toxic emissions and polluted water supplies.Coal mining is massively more invasive to the environment than oil or gas drilling and the amount of toxins and toxic by-products associated with its processing is astonishing to say the least. Consider that, Bank of America through it&#8217;s lending practices isinfluencing the coal industry to rethink their coal extraction processes. BofA&#8217;s decisionacknowledges the coal industrymust change and the extracting methods used by theindustry should &#8220;minimize environmental impacts&#8221;.  Bank of America is particularly concerned about surface mining conducted through mountain top removal in locations such as central Appalachia. We therefore will phase out financing of companies whose predominant method of extracting coal is through mountain top removal. While we acknowledge that surface mining is economically efficient and creates jobs, it can be conducted in a way that minimizes environmental impacts in certain geographies.  If we must use coal and we do, there aretechniquesthe power industrycould apply to keep much of the environmental cost low. Effective capture technologies doexist and they have been used widely around the globe, in the manufacture of chemicals such as fertilizer, and in the purification of natural gas. Canada for example, has experience with CO2 storage in their operations to purify natural gas, we us the technology in the US to boost oil production. Granted nothing is perfect but tocontinue theuse of coal as an energy source with no environmental regulations or steps to minimze the affects is environmental suicide, we will eventually pay a muchhigher price. The&#8221;Clean coal&#8221; campaigngives us a false sense of security, and is designed to implythat we can maintain the status quo.There are roughly 600 coal plants producing electricity in the U.S. they are responsible for more than two-thirds of sulfur dioxide, 22% of nitrogen oxides, nearly 40% of carbon dioxide and a third of all mercury emissionsis this&#8221;clean coal&#8221; the honest answer is not so much. Posted in Activism, Bi-partisan stupidity, Blogging, Butner, Civil Rights, Economy, Environmental, Government, Green, International News, Legal, Local, Nature, North Carolina, Opinion, Politics, Public Health, Science, Uncategorized           
