Florida Eminent Domain AttorneysAt the Tallahassee law offices of Savlov &amp; Anderson, Attorneys at Law, we're statewide lawyers with a local, people-first approach to the practice of eminent domain and condemnation litigation.We've represented clients large and small during our many years of helping Floridians maintain their property rights. Our growing list of clients ranges from owners of undeveloped lots to operators of regional shopping malls.Among recent satisfied clients are W. T. Paul Liau of Wei Tzi Realty; Sears Roebuck and Company; Burger King; Papa Johns; Checkers/Rally's Hamburgers; Wendy's; Bank of America, Nations Bank, and Barnett Bank; Braman Motor Cars; and Broward Factory Service.In the case involving Rally's, our firm prevailed on appeal. The decision in our client's favor opened the door for compensation to be paid for the loss of value of restaurant equipment and trade fixtures in eminent domain cases in Florida.The Savlov &amp; Anderson DifferenceAlthough our law offices are in Tallahassee, we practice statewide. Many of our cases have taken us to Central and South Florida. We're willing to travel throughout the state to address your eminent domain issues. And we always attempt to hire expert witnesses who live in your area.Another major difference between our firm and others is that all work is handled by a partner. Some larger, more impersonal practices hand much of your case over to less-experienced lawyers, or even paralegals.We stay abreast of recent developments in eminent domain case law, and use our personal skills to build positive relationships with appraisers and other potential expert witnesses whose input could turn the tide in our clients' favor. We tend these relationships through our affiliation with the Association of Eminent Domain Professionals, a multidisciplinary group whose members include appraisers, attorneys, accountants, engineers, and government authorities.If you retain us in the early phases of your case, we are sometimes able to obtain design changes to lessen the impact of the project on your business property. Because of our familiarity with condemning authorities statewideamong the many important professionals we meet in our travelswe are well suited for this role.Contact Us [Ed. note: Do not contact them.]Our firm-wide policy of being constantly accessible to you, throughout the eminent domain legal process, begins with your initial consultation. If you aren't able to call during business hours with the details of your legal situation, we return after-hours calls promptly. Our Tallahassee law offices are also available by fax or e-mail.Whatever method you use, contact us at Savlov &amp; Anderson, Attorneys at Law, today in Tallahassee or wherever you are in the state of Florida. We've proven we can help with your eminent domain problem.
