       U.S. foreclosure filings soar   PAUL WALDIE Tuesday, September 30, 2008 Wyatt Kenoly doesn&amp;#039;t have a lot of time to watch politicians haggle over the $700-billion (U.S.) rescue package for Wall Street or follow the stock market gyrations. He&amp;#039;s too busy trying to stave off foreclosure of his home in Stockton, Calif.  The monthly payment on his $425,000 mortgage is about to double to slightly more than $4,000. He and his wife bought the house in 2004, taking an interest-only loan that has been resetting at higher rates for the past couple of years. While the loan payments have soared, the value of the house has sunk and it&amp;#039;s now worth about $240,000. The couple just can&amp;#039;t pay the mortgage any more.   It is grim, Mr. Kenoly said Tuesday after spending the morning negotiating with his bank, HSBC Bank. We can only hope and pray.  Mr. Kenoly&amp;#039;s predicament reflects growing concern about the U.S. housing market and whether the problems that have plagued the sector are getting worse. Housing is at the root of the turmoil on Wall Street and at the heart of the proposed bailout package. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has said that even if the bailout is passed by Congress, everything depends on a recovery in housing. Experts say that recovery is far off.  I don&amp;#039;t think you could say that it&amp;#039;s getting better, said Huxley Somerville, an analyst at Fitch Ratings in New York who follows the housing sector. I think there is still a long way to work through yet.  The data are bleak. Foreclosure filings hit a record high in August and for some hard-hit states, such as California and Nevada, foreclosures have jumped more than 70 per cent year over year. Meanwhile, house prices have been falling steadily, dropping a record 16.3 per cent in July alone, according to a report released Tuesday by Standard &amp;amp;amp; Poor&amp;#039;s. Prices are expected to keep falling well into 2009, and could drop as much as 30 per cent from their peak in 2006.  As house prices drop, the number of Americans paying mortgages that are worth more than their homes is soaring. By the spring of 2009, economists estimate more than 15 million households, or 10 per cent of all U.S. households, will have zero or negative equity. Facing bleak returns on their mortgage portfolios, many lenders are pushing harder to sell homes that are close to foreclosure instead of working with homeowners to restructure mortgages, state regulators said in a report this week. Some vacant homes in Cleveland have ended up selling on e-Bay for less than $4,000.   But many experts say an even bigger problem is looming. Millions of subprime mortgages sold during the housing boom will reset at higher interest rates in the next few years, prompting what many believe will be a wave of new foreclosures. About $1-trillion worth of these mortgages were sold to buyers who wouldn&amp;#039;t normally qualify for loans. To entice them, lenders offered a teaser rate, as low as 1 per cent in some cases, with the rate increasing to well above market levels in two to five years.   One particularly troublesome variation were so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages, or option ARMS. Under these loans, the borrower could decide how much he or she wanted to pay each month for a limited period, usually five years. At the five-year mark, the loan was renewed at a higher interest rate and a fixed monthly payment.  According to Fitch Ratings, 42 per cent of all adjustable-rate mortgages sold at the peak of the boom, 2006, were option ARMS. That compared to 12 per cent in 2004.  Fitch estimates that nearly $100-billion worth of option ARMS will reset over the next two years and monthly payments for those homeowners will increase by 63 per cent on average.   To get an indication of how those resets will hammer consumers, someone holding an option ARM on a $250,000 mortgage could see the monthly payment jump from $804 to $2,027, according to one calculation.  With house prices falling and with a tight credit market, analysts believe many option ARM mortgage holders won&amp;#039;t be able to make their new payments, causing another round of foreclosures. Fitch estimated that loan delinquencies could double. Others are even more negative.  After looking at the prospects for option ARM borrowers, one cannot be blamed for believing Nostradamus&amp;#039;s prediction for the world ending in 2012, said a recent report titled Option ARM-ageddon by analysts at Barclays Bank in New York. They are expecting $312-billion worth of these loans to reset within four years.   Tracie Coffman is already seeing the impact of these loans. She works for an organization in Grand Rapids, Mich., called Home Repair Services, which helps people renegotiate mortgages. Foreclosures in the area increased 32 per cent in the past year and many of her clients are grappling with mortgage resets.  When asked how long she believes it will take before the market recovers, she paused and said: Honestly, I do not see us making an upward turn before five years. I just don&amp;#039;t think we are going to see a recovery.  
