Barclays, HSBC, Nationwide and Santander &#150; including Abbey and Alliance &amp; Leicester &#150; have opted out of the Homeowners Mortgage Support Scheme.    It means half of the banks that helped to develop the scheme when it was first announced in December last year have since decided against making it available to borrowers.    The banks and societies that have signed up for the scheme are the ones the Government has bailed out - including Northern Rock, Bradford and Bingley and Lloyds.    At the time of the original announcement, the Government promised that eight of the largest lenders "covering 70 per cent of the mortgage market" would be involved. But critics said this does not appear to be the case.    The scheme, which helps struggling home owners defer their interest payments for up to two years, was finally introduced yesterday following a five month delay.    The Conservatives suggested that the major lenders which have refused to take part covered 55 per cent of the mortgage market.    And they claimed that up to 28,000 home owners have been thrown out of their homes as a result of the scheme not being available when it was first announced.    Grant Shapps, shadow housing minister, said: "Once again, the Government has been guilty of over-promising and under-delivering. The small print reveals that just a fraction of mortgages will be covered by the scheme and the only lenders willing to take part are the ones owned by the state.    "It's outrageous to announce schemes which promise immediate help, yet take five months to put in place."    Lenders that have signed up to the scheme include Lloyds Bank Group, Northern Rock, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Bradford and Bingley, Cumberland Building Society, and the National Australia Bank Group.    Margaret Beckett, the housing minister, said: "We know that many families are worried about how to pay the mortgage right now, and we're determined to ensure there is real help available for them."    The lenders which did not sign up to the scheme despite helping to develop it insisted that they remained committed to helping borrowers who had suffered a loss of income to stay in their homes.    Gillian Charlesworth, of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, said: "Given current market conditions, even those lenders who are holding back from joining the scheme will be reluctant to take on large numbers of repossessed properties which cannot be easily sold. As a result, many of them are already offering reduced monthly payments and increased levels of support without Government intervention."     
