U.K. banks to get $73 billion capital boost      8:02 PM ET 10/10/08   Symbol Last % Chg   RBS 1.45 0.00%   LYG 12.50 0.00%   BCS 15.20 0.00%   Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes      LONDON (MarketWatch) -- U.K. banks unveiled plans to raise over 43  billion pounds ($73 billion) in fresh capital Monday as governments  and central banks across the globe battled to restore confidence in  the shaken financial sector.      Most of the money -- as much as 37 billion pounds -- is set to come  from the U.K. government, with several top executives falling on  their swords as part of the deal.      Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) will raise 20 billion pounds,  including 15 billion pounds through a sale of ordinary shares  underwritten by the government and 5 billion pounds through the  sale of preference shares direct to the Treasury.      HBOS and Lloyds TSB (LYG) will raise 17 billion pounds between them  and have also agreed to revise the terms of their planned  merger.      HBOS shares will now be worth just 0.605 Lloyds shares under the  deal, compared to the 0.833 exchange rate in the original  agreement.      Barclays (BCS), meanwhile, plans to raise around 6.5 billion pounds  through share sales. But unlike its rivals, Barclays said it  expects to get all the capital from existing investors and won&amp;#039;t  need taxpayers&amp;#039; cash.      The U.K. government announced plans to support the banking sector  last week and originally gave the banks until the end of the year  to strengthen their capital. But a further slump in global stock  markets led to urgent discussions over the weekend to ensure a plan  was in place before markets opened Monday.      &amp;quot;At this time of uncertainty we want British banks to be able to  lead the way and to be as strong and as well capitalized as any  bank across the world,&amp;quot; Prime Minister Gordon Brown said in  announcing the plans.      Shares in Barclays rose 5.3% in midday trading after saying it&amp;#039;s  strong enough to raise cash without government support.      The others all fell as investors face greater dilution and a halt  on dividends.      RBS fell 8.5%, Lloyds lost 6.7% and HBOS slumped 24% as the value  of its takeover deal also fell.      Goodwin departs      The massive cash injection for RBS marks the end of the road for  CEO Fred Goodwin, who is being replaced by Stephen Hester, chief  executive of British Land . Goodwin has been under pressure since  the bank bought the investment banking operations of ABN Amro just  as the credit crunch began to bite.      &amp;quot;I think this is the right thing for me to do, and the right thing  for the group,&amp;quot; said Goodwin, who added he was waived his right to  a pay-off from the bank.      He also argued the bank&amp;#039;s need for capital has more to do with the  global credit crisis and economic slowdown than any problems with  the ABN Amro deal.      &amp;quot;I know the jury is still out on ABN, but in truth it doesn&amp;#039;t lie  at the heart of what we are doing today,&amp;quot; Goodwin said.      Also heading out the door at RBS is Chairman Tom McKillop, who will  retire in April, while Johnny Cameron, chairman of the bank&amp;#039;s  global markets will step down from the board with immediate effect,  but will remain at the bank.      RBS is raising 5 billion pounds through the sale of preference  shares to the government, while HBOS and Lloyds together will raise  4 billion pounds through preference shares.      The three banks will pay a hefty annual interest rate of 12% for  the cash and have also agreed not to pay any dividends until all  the preference shares have been repaid in full. Other conditions on  the cash include keeping up lending levels to homeowners and small  businesses and giving the government a say in appointing board  members. See full story.      Incoming RBS chief executive Hester said the bank will try and pay  off the preference shares as soon as possible. The shares are  callable after five years, or sooner by mutual agreement with the  government.      Lloyds, HBOS deal restructured      Once the agreed merger between Lloyds and HBOS is complete, the  government could end up holding a 43.5% stake in the combined bank  if existing investors decided not to take part in the  recapitalization.      A re-pricing of the deal had been expected by some investors as  HBOS has continued to trade well below the implied offer value.      Shareholders must still approve the deal before it can go ahead,  but they would likely face even tougher government intervention if  they don&amp;#039;t.      &amp;quot;If the acquisition were not completed, HM Treasury would expect to  take appropriate action to address the position,&amp;quot; Lloyds cautioned  in a statement.      Upon completion of the deal, HBOS&amp;#039; CEO Andy Hornby and its Chairman  Dennis Stevenson will leave the group. The remaining board members  at HBOS, Lloyds and RBS won&amp;#039;t get any cash bonus this year and  Prime Ministers Brown has said he expects that decision to also  filter down to some senior executives.      Barclays taps shareholders      By avoiding taking government money, Barclays will avoid the strict  restrictions on pay and dividends, but the bank said shareholders  still shouldn&amp;#039;t expect any payout in 2008.      The bank is raising 3 billion pounds through the sale of preference  shares to private investors and about a further 3.6 billion pounds  by issuing new ordinary shares, including the 600 million pounds  previously announced to pay for its Lehman Brothers deal in the  U.S.      Scrapping the final dividend, cutting costs and reducing the  balance sheet should also allow it to add around 3.5 billion pounds  to its capital, the bank said.    
