 By  DAMIAN PALETTA   WASHINGTON  -- Four banks failed Friday in Georgia, Michigan, California and Idaho  as the financial crisis continued its grip on small lenders across the  country.    The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. estimated the failures cost its  deposit-insurance fund a combined $698.4 million. The fund is rapidly  depleting and Congress is trying to pass legislation that would allow  the FDIC to temporarily bolster it by borrowing up to $500 billion from  the Treasury.    Friday's most costly collapse was the failure of First Bank of  Beverly Hills in Calabasas, Calif. The FDIC couldn't find a bank to  acquire the bank's deposits so the government will have to pay out all  the insured depositors. This has happened several times this year and  tends to be more costly for the government.    First Bank of Beverly Hills was chartered in 1979, had $1.5 billion  of assets and $1 billion of deposits. All but $179,000 of the deposits  were FDIC-backed, the agency said.    The FDIC successfully sold all of the nonbrokered deposits of the  other three failures to acquiring banks. Banks typically shun a failed  bank's "brokered" deposits because they are not as reliable a low-cost  funding source as traditional deposits.      Banks That Went Bust  Review the details on the  banks that have been shut down by federal regulators  since the start of 2008.      The Office of Thrift Supervision shut down First Bank of  Idaho in Ketchum and sold all of the nonbrokered deposits to U.S. Bank  in Minneapolis.    First Bank of Idaho was chartered in 1997 and had seven branches  across Idaho and Wyoming. The bank had $488.9 million of assets and  $374 million of deposits. U.S. Bank only acquired $17.8 million of the  failed banks assets in addition to the deposits. It was the first bank  failure since 1988.    State regulators shut down American Southern Bank of Kennesaw, Ga.,  Friday afternoon and the FDIC sold roughly half of the bank's $104.3  million deposits to the Bank of North Georgia, based in Alpharetta.    American Southern was a one-branch bank with just $112.3 million of  assets. American Southern was chartered in 2005 and had 14 employees at  the end of the fourth quarter.    The bank's Tier 1 capital, a core measure of a bank's strength, had  fallen precipitously since the end of 2007, according to FDIC data.    In Michigan, state regulators shut down Michigan Heritage Bank, and  the FDIC sold all of the non-brokered deposits to Level One Bank. Both  lenders were based in Farmington Hills, Mich.    Michigan Heritage had roughly $184.6 million of assets, $151.7 million of deposits, and three branches.    The 29 failures in 2009 are four more than the 25 that collapsed in  all of 2008. Five banks have failed this year in Georgia and four in  California.    The failures come the same day Federal Reserve officials met with  executives from the country's 19 largest banks to discuss whether the  firms had enough capital to withstand a worsening recession.     Write to  Damian Paletta at  damian.paletta@wsj.com     msg 128829 
