AbitibiBowater Inc. said Wednesday it had missed a deadline to reach an agreement with secured lenders on restructuring its debt at its U.S. subsidiary but was 'optimistic' it would not be forced to file for creditor protection.  The newsprint giant had until 11:59 p.m. Tuesday to reach an agreement with a syndicate of U.S. lenders, including Bank of America, Citicorp and Wachovia Corp. on a debt exchange on US$1.8-billion it acquired when Abitibi-Consolidated merged with North Carolina-based Bowater Inc. in 2007.  'We are optimistic that we will be able to work constructively with all of our lenders, debt holders and other constituencies to successfully implement an alternative restructuring of our overall debt,' said David Paterson, Montreal-based Abitibis chief executive.  The secured lenders hold loans of US$400-million against assets of Bowater, including some of the company's most profitable mills. Approval from the group is imperative if Abitibi is to avoid a creditor-protection filing, which could force the liquidation of assets and further mill closures in Canada and the United States.  The lenders, which are reportedly seeking higher fees and stricter loan covenants, had extended the deadline five times within the past several weeks.  A filing also threatens a separate out-of-court restructuring plan for Canadian subsidiary Abitibi-Consolidated that would slash overall debt at the company to US$3.6-billion from US$6-billion in a separate debt-for-equity exchange and leave bondholders with an ownership stake in the parent of more than 90%.  The company said Wednesday it plans to continue with the second restructuring, however, plans to meet with creditors have been pushed back.  Two major shareholders, Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. and U. S. hedge fund Steelhead Partners LLC, have both agreed to Abitibi's restructuring plans and have pledged to purchase tens of millions more in notes at both subsidiaries.  Abitibi, which operates 25 pulp and paper mills as well as 30 wood product facilities across Canada, the United States, the U. K. and South Korea, has been hammered by declining demand for newsprint. It has closed loss-making mills to combat the downturn as well entered into agreements to sell hydro assets in Ontario and Quebec.  Standard &amp; Poor's cut Abitibi-Consolidated's debt rating to D on Tuesday, the lowest possible, after the subsidiary missed a loan payment.  
