The global economy went on an optimism binge in 2006 and 2007, suffered a breakdown 2008 and will spend 2009 in rehab.  And, as is the case with pop stars and football players, the result of the rehabilitation process can never be predicted with great accuracy.  This is not to say the outlook for 2009 is any more obscure that it was a year ago, for 2008.  But there should be no illusions about the economic uncertainty facing the nation.  A year ago, it was known that the sub-prime loans crisis in the US would have global effects.  However, its transformation into the global financial paralysis that emerged through 2008 shocked even the most seasoned observers of the worlds economy.  The fact that in a crisis banks become so fearful they stop lending to customers is a familiar one.  But it was harder to take in a paranoia so extreme that the banks even baulked at lending to each other.  It was also not expected that the meltdown in credit markets would spread to share markets, with such dramatic results.  Unlike the period before the collapse of the dot-com stocks boom in 2000, there were no widespread concern that share prices were inflated beyond what could be justified by fundamentals.  Yet stocks started falling in late 2007 and have been declining in trend terms ever since.  The share market in Australia lost about 46 per cent in 2008, the US fell 41 per cent and Chinas fledgling share market was savaged, slipping by 62 per cent.  The rapid transmission of the financial meltdown into stagnation in global real economies was also a surprise - although not so much in the US where the slump in the housing and mortgage debt markets was well known.  As 2008 ends, most of the developed world is either in recession or growing so slowly the difference is academic.  Even China, long regarded as Australias trump card if the developed world ground to a halt, is slowing dramatically.  China-watching economists now believe its growth will slow to around half its pace of recent years.  Demand for Australias export commodities, a well-spring of strong growth over the early years of this decade, has also waned.  Combined with an increase in productive capacity to supply a long-run resources boom, the run-up in commodity prices has been halted.  From a peak in September, the foreign currency index of commodity prices compiled by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) has posted its biggest two-month fall for over a decade.  Base metals prices are down by 57 per cent from a peak 18 months ago.  Sure, commodity prices are still relatively high overall by historical standards.  But history also tells us that neither low commodity prices nor steep falls are prerequisites for tough economic times.  The Australian economy typically falls into recession soon after commodity prices simply stop rising.  A recession is not inevitable.  But its also not easy to fine-tune a slowdown, as Paul Keating observed in 1990 as the economy fell into disarray around the then Labor Treasurer.  The Australian economy could do better than expected in 2009, and there are good reasons for believing just that.  Keatings comment in 1990 was made as an off-the-cuff aside at the start of speech he gave to the annual forecasting conference held by the Australian Business Economists group in Sydney.  Fast-forward 18 years and Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens was in December 2008 speaking to the same group, in the same venue.  There are clear parallels between the economic circumstances of 1990 and 2008, not least the role of reckless lending practices.  But the divergences are more significant.  Thankfully, this time around reckless lending practices has been largely absent from the Australian financial sector, leaving the big banks and most of the corporate sector in relatively good financial shape.  There is no 2008 equivalent, for example, of Alan Bond. Or his creditors.  The reaction of policymakers to the unfolding crisis has also been vastly different in 2008.  The rapidity and scale of the monetary policy response in 2008 is arguably without precedent.  As Stevens pointed out in December, the interest rate cuts of the past four or five months have boosted household spending power by the same degree as it took two and half years of monetary easing to achieve in the early 1990s.  He might also have pointed out that even by the time the economy started to drag itself out of recession, and post some positive growth figures from late 1991, the cash rate set by the RBA still had a further 4.75 percentage points to fall.  On the fiscal side, the federal government has been quick to embrace spending as a way to alleviate pressures in the economy.  In contrast, the main fiscal stimulus from government in the early 1990s was announced by Keating, who was by then prime minster, in the One Nation statement of February 1992.  Those measures came well after the economy had climbed back onto a growth path.  It is today perhaps easier, politically at least, for the government to let the federal budget slide into deficit than it was in the early 1990s.  A new government today can blame the need to abandon surplus budgeting on the failures of its predecessor.  Whats more, a clarion call for big spending has gone out to governments across the world.  In November, International Monetary Fund research director Olivier Blanchard said global fiscal expansion is very much needed'. When the normally austere IMF says its OK to spend up big, and its vital, it would be a very tight-fisted government indeed that would resist the urge to whip its cheque book out and start filling in the blanks.  There are plenty of other positives lining up to help the economy work through its issues in 2009.  Interest rates, already as low as they have been for decades, will almost certainly to head lower.  After loosening its purse strings with a $10.4 billion spending package kicking in this month, the federal government will ease fiscal policy even further with a splurge in infrastructure spending.  It is a story repeated in similar size and scale across the world, so the local economy will get a boost from offshore as well.  Meanwhile, oil prices have collapsed, giving businesses and households more spending power.  And the factor that rescued Australia from the Asian financial crisis of 1997 is doing it again - the Australian dollar in December was, on average, 23 per cent lower than in the first half of the year. (Indeed, given the anaemic state of the global economy, the exchange rate, presently about 68 US cents, may well have a good way to fall to move back into line with economic reality.)  All of this will have a powerful stimulatory effect on the economy.  Whether the patient responds as hoped is another matter, but there is plenty of room for optimism.
