TORONTO - Canadians can look forward to more interest rate relief this week with the Bank of Canada expected cut its key interest rate again.  It is widely anticipated the central bank will cut the rate by at least half a point to 1.75 per cent to deal with rapidly deteriorating economic conditions.  Stock markets fell sharply last week as U.S. data pointed to tumbling factory orders and deepening contraction in the manufacturing and service sectors.  The Toronto market fell 1,153.59 points or 12.4 per cent on selloffs in oil and metals while the Dow Jones industrial average lost 193.62 points or 2.2 per cent.  'The number I like to look at is the which summarizes everything globally for me is the OECD global leading indicator,' said John Johnston, chief strategist, The Harbour Group at RBC Dominion Securities.  'It's been falling quite steadily for some time now so we're in a global recession,'  Johnston noted that investors had been expecting the Canadian central bank to cut by at least 50 basis points before a report last week that the Canadian economy shed 70,600 jobs last month and the unemployment rate rose to 6.3 per cent from 6.2 per cent.  He said the market is 60 per cent pricing in a 75 basis point cut now.  One reason for that is that the central bank is thought to be the only source of stimulus right now with parliament not meeting again until late January.  'If the earliest fiscal stimulus we get is a late January budget and if it doesn't pass then there will be a new government or an election and a budget much later,' he said.  'So the reality here is that there are some risks that political issues in Canada will delay the timing of the fiscal stimulus and that means it's up to the Bank of Canada to carry more of the load.'  However, others think it doubtful that the bank would want to make a cut as drastic as three quarters of a point.  'Circumstances in Canada at this point are somewhat different than the rest of the world,' said David Wolf, head of Canadian economics and strategy at Merrill Lynch Canada.  'In other countries, particularly in the U.S., there are factors on the ground that suggest, yes, you really should be worried. Millions of jobs (have been lost), banks have failed, credit is all but dried up, etc. In Canada, none of those are really the case.'  Meanwhile, the loonie lost 2.16 cents against the U.S. dollar last week - at one point hitting a four-year low of 76.87 cents US - and it could experience more headwinds this week.  But Wolf pointed out it had little or nothing to do with the political uncertainty from Ottawa. The lower loonie can be explained by the deterioration in the global environment and huge drops in commodity prices including oil which tumbled 25 per cent last week.  He said ultimately, the great risk in Canada 'is people shutting down because they're worried.'  
