* Dec futures hurt by rollover of longs to March contract  * Investors trim long futures positions before U.S. jobs data  * BOJ drains same-day funds as overnight call rate dips  TOKYO, Dec 5 (Reuters) - December 10-year Japanese government bond futures fell on Friday, as investors trimmed long positions before the release of U.S. jobs data due later in the day and a looming benchmark switch in JGB futures.  The decline in the lead futures contract was partly caused by investors cutting long positions in the December contract and rolling them over into the March contract 2JGBH9, analysts said.  December futures were also likely pressured by pure position unwinding by players holding long positions, said Kazuhiko Sano, chief fixed-income strategist for Nikko Citigroup.  'Position-wise, they probably did not want to keep carrying large longs,' Sano said.  'The moves have a technical bent, but I think there was probably some profit-taking in cash bonds as well,' he added.  December 10-year JGB futures fell 0.59 point to 138.83 2JGBv1.  The benchmark 10-year JGB yield rose 2 basis points to 1.390 percent , pulling away from a 7- month low of 1.340 percent hit earlier this week after a 10-year bond auction was met by solid investor demand.  Mari Iwashita, senior strategist for Daiwa Securities SMBC, said investors were now split into two camps. 'Investors that do not have a lot of strength have not been moving, and the number of investors that can move are limited,' she said.  Analysts say a decline in risk appetite has made investors cautious about building up positions in JGBs.  Sano at Nikko Citigroup said that while such risk tolerance was unlikely to recover quickly, it may recover slightly once the market gets past the year-end, and help provide the impetus for a dip in JGB yields in early 2009.  'Economic indicators in the United States and Japan are likely to be the worst in October to December and January to March. Given such an environment it seems natural for the yield range to fall,' Sano said, adding that he thought the Bank of Japan would lower interest rates by the end of March.  The 10-year JGB yield could fall towards 1.20 percent by the end of March, Sano said. Continued...  
