Stephen Roach has mad scientist hair and thick-rimmed glasses, what seems like a permanent furrow in his brow and a PhD in economics from . He also has a track record to back up a reputation for giving good quotes to journalists.  As early as 2004, 13 years into a stint as Morgan Stanley's chief global economist, Mr. Roach warned of 'economic Armageddon' in the United States.   Three years later, he was named as the Wall Street bank's chairman of Asian operations, a promotion that seemed to be another sign the balance of economic power had shifted Eastward.   Now, when Mr. Roach speaks in Hong Kong -- sometimes as the highest-profile member of an elite team tasked by the local government with guiding the city through the global financial crisis -- the business media comes out in force and hangs on his very word.  So what does this leading economist think of the idea that emerging Asia -- China, South East Asia and India -- can reverse the world's floundering economic fortunes? Not much. 'Everybody takes it that the economic power of Asia is given,' he said in Hong Kong this week. 'Look, I moved out here, I'm betting my career that that is the case. But look at Asia, it is more export dependent than ever before, therefore more dependent on demand in the developed world. Is this really a region that is able to stand on its own?' The region has neither developed its own internal sources of demand nor has it created stable, sophisticated capital markets, he added. Already, the 'made in America' crisis has created a recession in Hong Kong, in Singapore and in Japan, and has lead to growth deceleration 'throughout the region, from China to India to Taiwan to Korea,' Mr. Roach said. Massive stimulus packages across emerging Asia -- especially China's 4-trillion yuan commitment -- will help boost the region's economies, say most analysts.  But while the rest of the world might be looking to emerging Asia for signs of a recovery, those in the region are looking out for themselves.  China cannot save the world, said Luo Jiwei, chairman of China's US$200-billion sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp. 'China is facing many internal problems,' he said this week. 'Our nation is tackling the gaps in insufficient national demand so that we can save our overall level of productivity. If we could hold this up, this is a major contribution that China can make to the rest of the world.' At the root of the problem is globalization. Although emerging Asia is largely outperforming the developed world, the globalization of supply chains means no country can avoid feeling the impact of the deep slowdown in the West, say analysts. 'When global growth slows, [Asian] regional growth falls by an even greater amount, stock markets underperform, and currencies tend to depreciate. This is the starting point for our 2009 outlook,' said Merrill Lynch's team of global analysts in a report Friday.  China's 2008 GDP growth, which has been in the double-digits for years, is now widely expected to fall below the 8% benchmark that some economists believe is crucial for the Asian giant to maintain its modernization. India, meanwhile, is facing 'a gathering storm' of slowing demand for exports and a drop off in foreign capital inflows, said Merill Lynch. Worst hit will be the smaller Asian nations, recording growth of only 1.8% in 2009 compared to an average of 4.5% in previous recessions, according to the U.S. bank's projections.  While emerging Asia's recent successes have been built on the export of cheap goods to the developed world, an over-dependency on exports is now the region's Achilles heel. In Singapore and Malaysia, export growth counts for more than 80% of total GDP growth. In China, it is almost 40%.  With Western buyers gone from the market, exporters have lost their revenue stream -- a fact thousands of striking factory workers in Southern China can testify to.  The one-two punch for emerging Asia is that as exports slow, so household income falls, and domestic demand falls too, said UBS' Asia analyst Duncan Wooldridge in Hong Kong. 'For Asia, ex Japan, we think this will translate into the weakest economic growth since the mid-1970s, excluding the 1997/1998 Asian Crisis, despite the region having admittedly solid fundamentals.' Worse still, billions of Asian consumers have a tendency toward high savings that means they are not big spenders anyway.  Morgan Stanley's Mr. Roach explained: 'In developing Asia last year, only about 45% of the region's output was private consumption which was much lower than it needs to be. Because of the lack of a social safety net like social security and pensions and unemployment and medical insurance, Asians are very pre-disposed toward very high levels of precautionary savings.' What started as a property bubble, credit bubble and consumption bubble in the U.S. is having a lasting impact around the planet, he added. 'We're in a post bubble World right now,' Mr. Roach said. 'And I stress the word World.''
