The Australian dollar closed higher on Tuesday despite giving up almost all of its gains from offshore trading during the local session.  At 1700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6558/61, up from Monday's close of $US0.6532/37.  During the day, the local unit traded between a low of $US0.6548 and a high of $US0.6684.  The Australian dollar had opened stronger at $US0.6673/77 at 0700 AEDT, boosted by higher commodity prices and a rallying stock market during New York trading.  That positive sentiment continued at the start of the local session, but the unit soon hit resistance just below $US0.6700 and slid more than one US cent over the course of the afternoon.  Despite the decline, Societe Generale chief foreign exchange dealer Paul Milton said he remained bullish about the Australian dollar's prospects. 'I'm not reading too much into today's moves in Asia, I just think it is a little bit of a correction from the moves we've had over the last 48 hours,' Mr Milton said. 'Everything has peeled off today - euro-yen, US dollar-yen and euro-US dollar - the Aussie was naturally going to head that way.' The local currency suffered after National Australia Bank's monthly business survey showed business confidence at a record low in November and business conditions continued to deteriorate. 'The NAB survey I think probably put the Aussie a little bit on the back foot and maybe suggested to a few people it might not be able to sustain the levels above 66 US cents,' Mr Milton said. Mr Milton said sentiment on currency markets was beginning to focus more on US dollar weakness and rather than on equity markets, which would benefit the Australian dollar. 'Even though it does look fairly range bound at the moment I think it's going to be better supported on weaker US dollar sentiment in the short term,' Mr Milton said. 'That should really put the Aussie in fairly good stead.' Mr Milton said he expected the Australian dollar to drift up towards 70 US cents by Christmas.  At 1600 AEDT, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index was at 54.5, up from Monday's close of 54.2.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
