UNFUNDED superannuation liabilities for NSW public servants have blown out by more than 65 per cent to $32.1 billion in the global financial meltdown, pushing the total amount of state debt to more than $45 billion.   The disclosure was included in the mid-year budget review, made public yesterday, which showed a slightly lower than expected deficit for 2008-9, thanks to a big injection of funds from the Federal Government. As a result, the 2008-9 deficit is forecast to be $712 million; $917 million had been projected in the mini-budget five weeks ago.   NSW has received $840 million in Federal Government payments, $500 million of it being used to repay RailCorp debt and fund maintenance and capital spending in public housing.   Normally, payments are spread over the five-year funding agreement with the Federal Government 'but this time, they've given us a bit more up front,' the NSW Treasurer, Mr Eric Roozendaal, said yesterday. 'So we've paid down a bit of rail debt and [will] bring forward some funding in housing.' The global financial turmoil has increased the unfunded superannuation liability to cover the state's public servants when they retire by $12.7 billion since the budget for 2008-9 was drawn up, and is higher than the $7 billion additional unfunded liability flagged at the time of the mini-Budget.   The world financial turmoil has led to large losses in superannuation funds, and this had been exacerbated by the fall in interest rates, Treasury said.   The sharply higher superannuation liability has lifted the forecast net financial liabilities of NSW to a record $45.2 billion next June.   Even though overall economic activity remains sluggish, NSW will benefit from the aggressive cuts to interest rates by the Reserve Bank of Australia, with further cuts expected, while the State Government continues to spend heavily on infrastructure.   State governments have suffered an unprecedented rise in the differential between interest rates they pay when compared with the Federal Government in recent days, rising to more than 1.2 percentage points, which is than four times the historical difference.   This gap is a result of the Federal Government giving loan guarantees to private banks, but not to state governments. 'We are monitoring the situation,' Mr Roozendaal said. 'It is not a pressing issue for NSW, because we are not in the market  to refinance any of our debt  At the moment the markets are very cautious; there's still not a lot of credit out there.' The shadow treasurer, Mr Greg Pearce, said yesterday: 'Without the Prime Minister handing out the former Federal Coalition Government's surplus, Nathan Rees and Eric Roozendaal would be looking at a deficit of around $1.5 billion.' 
