, 02:03 GMT  SYDNEY, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Australian business cut back sharply on job advertisements in November as the global financial crisis intensified, pointing to an inevitable rise in unemployment and yet further cuts in interest rates.  A closely-watched survey from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp showed job advertising in newspapers sank 12.0 percent in November, after a similar drop the month before.  The combined fall was the biggest in the 30-year history of the series and fuelled worries official data on employment this week would show a reversal in what has been one of the most resilient parts of the economy.  'As a leading indicator of economic conditions, the latest job advertisements data suggest the global financial crisis has had a substantial impact on the Australian economy in the fourth quarter,' said Warren Hogan, ANZ's head of Australian economics.  The economy had already slowed sharply in the third quarter, growing at an eight-year low of just 0.1 percent, and risks an outright contraction this quarter.  Government figures on employment are due on Thursday and analysts already expected a fall of around 15,000 in net new jobs in November, and perhaps as much as 30,000.  The unemployment rate is seen rising to 4.5 percent, from 4.3 percent, which many suspect will be just the start of a long climb to 6 percent or higher in the next couple of years.  All of which argues for more easing from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) even though it has already cut by 3 percentage points since September, the most aggressive move since the recession of the early 1990s.  MORE EASING AHEAD  'As long as unemployment is trending higher, and inflation is trending lower, the RBA will be under pressure to cut further,' said Rory Robertson, interest rate strategist at Macquarie.  'And it will not start tightening until unemployment starts falling, probably at least a couple years down the track.' The central bank next meets in February and the market is presently pricing in a cut of around 75 basis points in the current 4.25 percent cash rate.  The easing to date is already worth over A$500 a month to a typical mortgage-holder, while A$8.4 billion in government stimulus is due to fatten wallets this week.  'The fact that both the Government and the RBA have been more aggressive and importantly, more pre-emptive, in their policy adjustments, gives us some reason to believe the slowing in the economy can be contained and a severe recession avoided,' said Hogan at ANZ.  Much will depend on how the labour market fares, and it has been remarkably resilient up to now. The jobless rate of 4.3 percent is not far from a three-decade low of 3.9 percent touched in February.  In the 10 months to October, Australian employers added a net 162,000 positions, a sharp contrast to the United States where 1.4 million jobs were lost and that was before November's 533,000 fall reported last week.  Yet, the inexorable decline in job advertising had to be a harbinger of weakness ahead. The ANZ's combined figures for both newspapers and the Internet slid 8.6 percent in November, to be 18.6 percent down on the same time last year.  A separate survey of 317,381 ads on Web sites by recruitment agency Olivier Group found a drop of 9.8 percent in November. Advertising and Media job ads were worst hit, suffering a fall of 26 percent, while building and construction dropped 14 percent.  (Editing by James Thornhill) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/  (wayne.cole@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1813; Reuters Messaging: wayne.cole.reuters.com@reuters.net )  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of AFX News AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News Limited For more information and to contact AFX: www.afxnews.com and www.afxpress.com  Related News  Dow Jones   Mon, Dec 8 2008, 00:30 GMT  Thomson Financial News   Sun, Dec 7 2008, 22:13 GMT  Thomson Financial News   Fri, Dec 5 2008, 05:47 GMT  Thomson Financial News   Fri, Dec 5 2008, 05:47 GMT  
