LOWER interest rates and cheaper petrol have led to a surprising lift in consumer confidence, with more people saying now is the time to make a major purchase or buy a home, a survey shows.  The Westpac-Melbourne Institute index of consumer sentiment rose by 7.5 per cent in December to 92.0 index points, from 85.5 points in November.  Most of the 1200 consumers polled were surveyed after the Reserve Bank cut the cash rate by 100 basis points to 4.25 per cent.  Westpac chief economist Bill Evans said the lift in consumer sentiment in December was not a given after a 'disappointing rise' of only 4.3 per cent the month before. 'Despite the announcement of a further 1 per cut in the Reserve Bank's cash rate, an 18.4 per cent fall in petrol prices and a share market rally in recent weeks, it was not obvious that the consumer sentiment index would have shown such a significant jump,'' he said. 'The gloom surrounding the global economy and the associated threat to Australia could have easily overwhelmed all the positives.  The consumer sentiment index is now up 12 per cent in the last two months. It's up 16.4 per cent from the lowest point this year, he said.  Mortgage holders are becoming more confident about the economy thanks to interest rate cuts, Mr Evans said.  Since September, the central bank has cut the cash rate by 300 basis points, to a six-and-a-half year low of 4.25 per cent, in a bid to boost the economy. 'With the banks now having passed on around 2.7 per cent of the 3 per cent in rate cuts over the last three months, households are responding,'' Mr Evans said. 'The confidence of mortgage holders surged by 11 per cent in December compared to 1.6 per cent for tenants.' Positive opinions on family finances compared to a year ago were up. 'Expectations for finances over the next twelve months improved by 5.3 per cent,' said Mr Evans. 'The one year outlook for economic conditions improved by 5.7 per cent.' The number of people saying now is a good time to buy a major household item jumped 28 per cent, which is good news for retailers, he said. 'It is sending a welcome message to beleaguered retailers as they move into the critical last few weeks before Christmas,'' said Mr Evans.  More consumers also say now is the time to buy a property, with that part of the index up 39 per cnet from September. 'It is at the highest level since March 2002 when the housing boom was well established in Australia,'' he said. 
