(Adds analyst comments beginning in sixth paragraph, information about ITW, background and updated stock prices.) By Bob Sechler Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 3M Co. (MMM) sharply reduced its 2008 earnings outlook due to falling volume while forecasting profits for next year that are well below analysts' projections, a fresh sign of the toll the U.S. slumping economy is taking on the industrial sector. Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) provided additional evidence as well Monday, lowering its forecast for fourth-quarter earnings from continuing operations and citing 'significant further weakening in North American and international end markets.' Shares of 3M were off 7% recently at $55.67, while those of Illinois Tool Works were up 0.5% at $32.55. Shares of several other major manufacturers were higher as investors focused on government efforts to buoy the economy, including President-elect Barack Obama's weekend announcement of a New Deal-like spending plan for public works. Still, the warnings from 3M and Illinois Tool Works served as sobering counterpoints to any optimism in the manufacturing sector. 3M said on Friday it is cutting 1,800 jobs and urging some workers to take time off without pay or to take December vacation time. 3M said Monday it is planning to cut an additional 500 jobs, and possibly more by the end of the year. All told, the 2,300 job cuts - including the 1,800 announced Friday - equate to about 3% of 3M's 75,000 employees. Other conglomerates and industrial companies, including General Electric Co. (GE), DuPont Co. (DD) and Dow Chemical Co. (DOW), have indicated that the broad economy continues to deteriorate, and many have announced job cuts of their own. 3M's fourth-quarter profit warning 'reflects the extremely challenging global economy,' Deutsche Bank analyst David Begleiter said in a research note Monday. He added the broad range of financial guidance 3M offered for 2009 'reflects uncertainty as to the depth and duration of the global slowdown.' Citing a 10% decline in fourth-quarter volume, excluding acquisitions, and unfavorable currency rates, 3M on Monday lowered its 2008 earnings estimate to $5.10 and $5.15 a share from October's view of $5.40 and $5.48. The St. Paul, Minn., manufacturing giant projected 2009 earnings of $4.50 to $4.95 a share on margins 'consistent with' 2008. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters were expecting earnings of $5.31. 3M said next year's results will be hurt by a fall in organic volume of 3% to 7%, with the stronger dollar resulting in sales being 6% to 7% lower than they otherwise would have. 3M reaps about two-thirds of its revenue overseas and had been benefitting from the weak dollar. 'During these difficult economic times, we will continue to aggressively manage our costs,' Chief Executive George Buckley said in a prepared statement Monday ahead of an investor and analyst meeting that the company is holding later in the day. 'Clearly, the current market challenges require intense focus on cash management and on strengthening 3M's operational execution,' Buckley said. He said the job cuts, which are occurring mainly in the U.S., Western Europe and Japan, will save about $170 million next year. Meanwhile, Illinois Tool Works cut its fourth-quarter earnings target by 30 cents a share, to 44 cents to 52 cents, and now sees revenue falling 7% to 9%. In October, the company projected revenue growing 6% to 9%. As a result of the quarter's outlook cut, the firm also lowered its full-year expectations after previously reducing it in October. Chief Executive David Speer said many of the company's industrial clients are shutting production this month, noting that demand from the auto and appliance sectors had been worst-hit as manufacturing customers faced up to the weakening global economy. He described inventory destocking by clients as a 'fog' hampering guidance for 2009, but said the credit shortage facing small and medium-sized customers could take months to ease. Illinois Tool's diversified product line makes it a key bellwether of the U.S. industrial economy, encompassing power systems, packaging, construction and transportation. -By Bob Sechler, Dow Jones Newswires; 512-394-0285; bob.sechler@dowjones.com (Doug Cameron contributed to this report.) 
