  Australian home-loan approvals increased in October for the first time in nine months after the central bank slashed borrowing costs to encourage property buyers back into the market.  The number of loans granted to build or buy homes and apartments rose 1.3 percent to 48,299 from September, when they slid a revised 2.4 per cent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 1 per cent gain.  Households are being aided by the biggest round of interest rate cuts since the economy was last in a recession in 1991 and expanded government grants for first-home buyers. House prices fell in the third quarter by the most since 1978 and the building industry shrank in November for a ninth month.  The number of first-home buyers should increase, in part owing to the expanded first-home owners grant, Stephen Walters, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co in Sydney, said ahead of todays report.  The Australian dollar traded at 65.94 US cents at 9.34am, unchanged from before the report was released. The two-year government bond yield fell 1 basis points, or 0.0.1 percentage point, to 3.02 per cent.  To restore consumer and business confidence battered by tumbling stock markets, central bank Governor Glenn Stevens cut the overnight cash rate target by three percentage points since early September to a six-year low of 4.25 per cent.  Consumer sentiment gained 7.5 per cent in December, the second straight increase, Westpac Banking reported today.  The reduction in borrowing costs will provide significant support for the economy in 2009 amid the global slowdown, Stevens said yesterday. There is scope to do more with macroeconomic policy settings if needed, he added.  The Reserve Bank of Australia will reduce the rate by further half-point when the board next meets on February 3, according to 16 of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, trying to stop Australias economy from slipping into its first recession in 17 years, tripled in October the governments $21,000 grant to first-home buyers of newly built dwellings.  Prior to todays report, most indicators of Australias housing market showed demand for homes and finance have slowed. Home-building approvals dropped in October to the lowest level since 2001, a report showed on December 4.  An index measuring the weighted average price for established homes in the nations eight capital cities dropped 1.8 per cent in the third quarter from the previous three months, the Bureau of Statistics said on November 3.  Australias economy grew 0.1 per cent in the third quarter from the previous three months, the weakest pace in eight years, as household spending stalled.  The total value of lending rose 1.9 per cent to $17.4 billion in October, todays report showed. Lending to owner- occupiers advanced 2.4 per cent, while the value of lending to investors who plan to rent or resell homes gained 0.7 per cent.
