By Todd Benson SAO PAULO, Dec 9 (Reuters) - Brazil's economy charged ahead in the third quarter before the global financial crisis hit the South American giant with a vengeance, led by a surge in corporate investment and strong domestic demand. Gross domestic product expanded by a better-than-expected 1.8 percent from the second quarter and a whopping 6.8 percent from the third quarter of 2007 -- the best year-on-year result since the second quarter of 2004 -- the government's statistics agency IBGE said on Tuesday. The strong growth numbers in Brazil contrast sharply with the United States, Europe and Japan, where economies have been reeling for more than a year because of the global credit crunch and plunging consumer confidence. In recent years, Brazil, Russia, India and China -- the so-called BRIC group of major emerging markets -- have been key to fueling world growth. The World Bank lists Brazil's economy as the tenth largest in the world. Still, the third-quarter data is a snapshot of Brazil just before the global financial turmoil began to wreak havoc on Latin America's largest economy, causing a credit squeeze that has punished companies and consumers alike. 'The numbers are good, but they're old. We already know that the fourth quarter is not going well at all,' said Silvio Campos Neto, chief economist at Banco Schahin in Sao Paulo. 'This is like looking into the rearview mirror.' Since the global financial crisis took a turn for the worse in mid-September, Brazil's high-flying economy has shown signs of unraveling. Car sales plunged in October and November, industrial output is contracting, and some companies like mining giant Vale have begun to lay off workers and scale back investment plans. The recent slowdown has also helped ease inflation as retailers slash prices to attract customers, fueling a fierce debate as to whether Brazil's central bank should follow others around the world and lower interest rates to give the economy a boost in a time of global uncertainty. The central bank, however, is expected to go the conservative route and leave its benchmark lending rate unchanged on Wednesday at a lofty 13.75 percent, according to a Reuters poll last week. Yields on interest-rate futures were mixed, with longer maturities creeping higher as investors bet that the robust third-quarter growth numbers may reduce the chances of a rate cut early next year. INVESTMENT BOOMS Even with economic activity cooling in the fourth quarter, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said Brazil remains on track to grow between 5 percent and 5.5 percent this year. In 2007, the economy expanded by 5.7 percent. He also said that the third-quarter figures, which were buoyed by another surge in capital investments such as machinery and infrastructure, prove that Brazil has paved the way for sustainable, long-term growth. 'This is quality growth because it's being driven by investment,' Mantega told reporters in the capital, Brasilia. 'All those people that are talking about a recession are profoundly mistaken,' he said, adding that 4 percent growth in 2009 was a feasible target. Central Bank President Henrique Meirelles acknowledged that a slowdown was already underway, but said it would be shorter and less intense than in other countries. Capital spending, a sign of investment to increase capacity for growing consumer demand, jumped 6.7 percent in the third quarter from the second and soared 19.7 percent on a year-on-year basis. Household consumption in this vast nation of 185 million people grew 2.8 percent, helping to cushion the impact of cooling demand for Brazilian exports. Industrial output, which contracted in October, grew 2.6 percent in the third quarter from the second quarter, when it expanded 1.1 percent. The agricultural sector, a linchpin of the Brazilian economy, grew 1.5 percent after expanding 3.4 percent in the previous quarter. The services sector grew 1.4 percent, gaining steam from a 1.1 percent expansion in the second quarter. (For details on the government's GDP report, please see: http://www.ibge.gov.br/home/presidencia/noticias/noticia_visualiza.php?id_noticia=1284&amp;amp;id_pagina=1) (Additional reporting by Daniela Machado in Sao Paulo and Isabel Versiani in Brasilia, Editing by Gary Crosse) Keywords: BRAZIL ECONOMY/GDP (todd.benson@thomsonreuters.com; +5511-5644-7703; Reuters Messaging: todd.benson.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
