It is no surprise that with shoppers trying to keep a firm grip on their wallets, it is retail landlords who are feeling the most pessimistic in the lead-up to Christmas.  Retailing has taken a hit as householders trim discretionary spending this year, while price jumps triggered by the low New Zealand dollar look likely to slow spending further.  This means less demand for properties, and dampened rents and capital values.  The latest commercial real estate confidence survey from Colliers International has found that few landlords in any sector are expecting good times.  Christchurch retail landlords were the least confident of any landlords surveyed in the three main cities, while the city's office landlords were the most confident in their sector in New Zealand.  Colliers head of research Alan McMahon says tough times in the economy are taking their toll. 'The recession has been overlaid onto property specific problems, such as the availability of finance and businesses being cautious in committing to space.' He says the pessimism among Christchurch's retail landlords is no surprise. 'If there is an over-supply of shopping centres in any part of the country, it's in Christchurch. If you own a shop in Christchurch, your potential rents and values are affected. 'It's all about supply and demand.' Central Christchurch landlord Simon Henry, who owns shops in both High St and Cashel St, says the lack of optimism is understandable because leasing is slow. 'Retailers aren't going to be bullish about expansion with the way things are at the moment. 'It's often said that the malls in Christchurch have mauled the inner city. Not having the university in the city is a major issue, when it could be keeping the place busy.' However, Henry believes Christchurch shop landlords are not much worse off than those in Auckland and Wellington.  He says the drop in interest rates should have a positive impact on business confidence, but he does not expect any major improvement to occur for 12 months. In the city's suburban shopping areas, there is expansion at Hornby Dress Smart and Westfield Riccarton, but empty shops in the central city and some smaller suburban centres. Colliers' survey results were gathered from both investors and other market participants in early December.  Results measure the excess of those who were not optimistic of better times over those who were.  Of the industrial, office and retail property owners surveyed in the three main cities, most did not expect market conditions to improve in the next 12 months.  With confidence levels at minus 57 per cent across all sectors, levels have taken a sharp dive since September, when they measured minus 31 per cent, and are the lowest recorded of the nine surveys.  However, some investors this year have paid high prices for low-risk properties, such as the chain of National Bank properties auctioned off in a lease-back arrangement by ANZ National.  This month was the first time the study, done quarterly since 2006, has included Christchurch.  And it was Christchurch landlords whose confidence levels varied most. 'The Christchurch office market is quite positive. There's very little supply and very little vacancy. 'So if you are in Christchurch looking for a decent-sized office, it's quite hard to find, and that tends to keep rents and values up,' McMahon says. Some confidence in the city's office property can be seen in the numbers of new office developments either under construction or on the drawing board.  McMahon says that industrial property, which relies on the fortunes of manufacturers for rental and capital growth, is usually hit first during an economic downturn, but recovers first.  He says an improvement in confidence depends 'absolutely' on the economy, and he believes the fortunes of industrial landlords will be looking up by the end of next year or early 2010.
