SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Australian businesses expect further deterioration in conditions in the first quarter of next year as credit markets and volatile currencies weigh on business prospects, a private sector survey showed Tuesday. The Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet business expectations survey shows 54% of firms expect a downturn in sales in the first quarter, while 58% have the same expectation for profits. Almost three quarters of businesses say they have been hurt by the Australian dollar's plunge since mid-July. Around 43% of wholesale businesses reported a positive impact of a high Australian dollar in July. But this has now swung to 89% reporting a negative impact of currency moves on their operations. 'Falling commodities prices have caused the Australian dollar to drop markedly in recent months, forcing businesses to pay more for their imports,' Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet chief executive Christine Christian said. 'On top of this, the global liquidity crisis has also resulted in significant cash flow challenges for some businesses and forced many organizations to postpone growth plans as access to credit has dried up.' Despite a broader view from economists that inflation has come under control, businesses still expect price rises to occur in the first quarter with 82% of executives indicating they will raise prices in the new year. While the survey's employment subindex has recovered slightly, 19% of executives expect to have less staff in the first quarter than they did a year before. However, Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet economic consultant Duncan Ironmonger expects Australia to come through the global downturn in better shape than its industrialized peers. 'The federal government and Reserve Bank have the capacity to stimulate economic growth and have indicated that they will use that capacity as necessary throughout 2009,' Ironmonger said. 'If world oil prices remain low, Australians should receive some relief on cost pressures. 'The lower value of the Australian dollar will encourage domestic spending and exports, however it will discourage imports.' -By Sam Holmes, Dow Jones Newswires; 61-2-8235-2964; samuel.holmes@dowjones.com 
