The Christmas holidays were a major factor in the Reserve Bank of Australia's decision to cut the official cash rate by one percentage point in December.  When making its decision to cut the rate to 4.25 per cent earlier this month, the bank was keen to boost confidence among businesses and households but was also mindful that it wouldn't be meeting again until February.  In light of the slowing economy, the RBA board wanted any rate cut to have a noticeable impact on the behaviour of both lenders and borrowers. 'Members also took account of the fact that a board meeting was not typically scheduled in January,' the RBA said in its December minutes, released on Tuesday. 'Overall, members judged that the two-month break between meetings was one consideration in favour of a substantial reduction in interest rates at this meeting. 'Accordingly, members felt that, on this occasion, a reduction of 100 basis points was appropriate and would contribute to supporting confidence among households and businesses.' The RBA board believed the 100 basis point cut ahead of Christmas was big enough to help boost spending activity within the economy.  In its determination, the board took account of a continued deterioration in the global economy, and noted forecasts that both developed and developing economies would slow significantly in 2009. 'Although the Australian economy had been more resilient than other industrial economies, recent data indicated that a significant moderation in demand and activity had been occurring,' the minutes said. 'With confidence affected by the financial turbulence and a decline in the terms of trade now under way, members thought that more cautious behaviour by both households and businesses would result in private demand remaining subdued in the near term.' Rising inflation, which preceded increases in the official cash rate late last year and early in 2008, was not seen as an obstacle to cutting rates.  The board envisaged downward pressure on inflation over the year ahead resulting from the slowing demand, which in turn would ease capacity pressures.  In addition, an easing of global inflationary pressures could assist domestic inflation, though the bank noted the lower Australian dollar would mean it could take longer for inflation to head back into the two to three per cent target band.  But the significant rate cuts in recent months mean that borrowers may now have to wait before the RBA decides whether further action in necessary.  The December reduction was the fourth consecutive drop in the cash rate since September, which has fallen by three percentage points as the magnitude of the global financial crisis became apparent.  The most recent bank decision coincides with the government's pre-Christmas payments to pensioners and low income families, part of its $10.4 billion economic stimulus package.  The bank board indicated it believed the rate cuts to date, coupled with the government payouts and the falling Australian dollar, amounted to 'significant stimulus' that would support demand over the year ahead. 'The size of the response to date was judged to be such that a period of assessment of local and overseas events was warranted over the summer,' it said. 
