The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) has left open the possibility of a January interest rate cut should a big financial event occur but economists say the chances would be low.  In his last public address for the year, RBA governor Glenn Stevens said the central bank had not scheduled a January board meeting although nothing had been ruled out.  The RBA usually meets on the first Tuesday of every month - except January - but did slash interest rates in January 1992 in the aftermath of the last recession.  When asked where he would be on the first Tuesday of January 2009, Mr Stevens said: 'I will not be at the office, but I won't be far from the office. 'No meeting has been scheduled for this time. 'In truth, the option is open in any month to do something inter meeting if there's a big event to cause it.' Mr Stevens told the Australian Business Economists annual dinner in Sydney on Tuesday night he could call his fellow RBA board members in an emergency.  Debt futures markets are already expecting the RBA to cut interest rates by 25 basis points in January, following from this month's 100 basis point which took official interest rates to a six-and-half-year low of 4.25 per cent.  However, St George chief economist Besa Deda said the chance of a January interest rate cut was slim. 'We attach the probability of a January rate cut as low, but much of course will depend on the credit crisis and if any new nasties rear their head,' Ms Deda said. Ms Deda said the RBA was more likely to cut rates in February - it's next scheduled board meeting - by either 50 or 75 basis points.  A half a percentage point rate cut would take the cash rate to 3.75 per cent, its lowest level since November 1967.  JPMorgan chief economist Stephen Walters said the RBA governor's comments left open the possibility of a rate cut announcement on January 6, if the global financial crisis worsened. 'The governor suggested that with the uncertainty, they may have to be prepared to be nimble and ready to act, and every other central bank is prepared to do the same thing,' Mr Walters said. ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said there was nothing in Mr Stevens' speech that screamed 'another bout of cuts' in January or February, though nothing was ruled out. 'The way things stand at the moment, we'll get a further 50 basis points in February and then hopefully that'll be it,' he said. Mr Stevens said in his speech that consumers were yet to respond to lower interest rates and falling petrol prices. 'Consumer spending, which slowed significantly in the period from about February to June as interest rates and petrol prices rose, has remained slow since, even as interest rates and petrol prices have fallen significantly.' Mr Stevens said households were more likely to be more cautious about debt in future 'over the next couple of years'. The RBA has slashed official interest rates by 300 basis points since September, reversing the 12 rates rises between mid-2002 and March 2008.  In January, Barack Obama will be sworn in as the 44th president of the United States, which Mr Stevens said would likely boost confidence. 'The inauguration of a new US administration is a key opportunity,' Mr Stevens said. 'The economic downturn has been deepening during the transition period. 'But if the new team can announce credible plans to accommodate the necessary adjustments in the US economy, confidence in medium-term prospects can be rebuilt.'  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
