HONG KONG (Menafn - MarketWatch) -- Interest rate cuts in the U.S. are keenly watched in Hong Kong as the currency's peg to the greenback means we must follow the Federal Reserve. Typically, each time Ben Bernanke pulls his interest-rate lever, asset markets receive another shot of adrenalin as cheaper money reaches Hong Kong.  But it looks as if the Fed's ability to transmit the magic of cheap money to Hong Kong is waning. Property buyers, for one, are not going to get cheaper money this time round, as instead, banks are hiking lending rates and cutting credit.  While the Hong Kong Monetary Authority last week followed the Fed's rate cut with a 100-basis-point cut of its own, bringing its overnight discount-window down to 0.5%, major banks in town were unmoved.   HSBC HBC and Standard Chartered STRDF are not budging on their prime lending rate, saying they have no room to cut.   Unlike central bankers, they face the reality of running a business when deciding rate policy. Go back to banking basics and that means lending out depositors' money and making a return when that money is paid back.  Protecting that margin is a concern, with deposit rates already close to zero and bad-loan risks rising. In fact, since September, effective mortgage rates in Hong Kong have been rising as banks seek to control credit risk. Mortgage rates have moved from 3 percentage points below the prime rate to one point, note property experts. This phenomenon of 'negative rates' set below prime has lasted for eight years but is set to end next year, predicts property consultancy Midland Realty. They forecast that in 2009, we can expect property prices to fall another 10% as property lending shrinks.   Go back a step and another weighty consideration for banks is maintaining a depositor base and the capital pool which it provides. If rates go too low, customers lose the incentive to keep money on deposit.   It might have been a coincidence, but within hours of the HKMA cutting rates last week, I received a text from my cell provider offering a cash bonus and 2.5% interest to open an account with Citibank C.  Shrinking deposit bases can potentially erode capital-adequacy ratios. Notably last week, HSBC was sold down heavily as analysts speculated it will need to raise new capital or cut dividends or -- worse -- perhaps even both.   As money gets tighter for banks, Fed cuts or not, we can rely on those banks to share their pain around. That means in the real economy, everyone knows it is necessary to make dollars work harder. Expect companies to be messaging capital management and cash flow at the front of their annual report cards. Capital efficiency is the watchword from inventory management to making sure suppliers pass on any gains from falling commodity prices.  The other impact of these historically low deposit rates is that it discourages prudent savings. Doing something with spare money is tempting rather than letting the bank keep it for a few miserly decimal points in interest. In Hong Kong, it seems that means gambling.  Last week betting turnover for horse racing in Hong Kong hit a six-year high, despite the economic downturn, as bettors gambled more than HK$1 billion (US$129 million) on the Cathay Pacific Cup at Sha Tin.   Fund managers will also be getting restless if they are still waiting out the current turmoil in cash. They could have some difficult questions to answer such as 'Why can't I bank that myself and save on the management fee?' It is worth noting that since its October low, the Hang Seng Index has now risen some 40%, despite the onslaught of bad news. According to Citi Research, while the majority of Asian country funds are continuing to face redemptions, Hong Kong funds just reported two consecutive weeks of inflows. It also points out that China has been the best performing market (in Chinese yuan terms) in this region, month to date.   Perhaps low interest rates are beginning to make even small yields on equities look more attractive. There might also be some window-dressing going on, as funds try to make their 2008 performance not look any worse.   However, it is likely this liquidity boost can only take the market so far. One problem is that the corporate credit crunch will likely collide with equity valuations next year if, as many expect, dividends are cut. In the current economy, something has to give and dividends look exposed.   Locally, for instance, some companies have promised not to look to save money through redundancies. A 'no lay-offs charter' has been started by various lawmakers, with companies signing up for a year not to cut staff. A hundred businesses have joined, covering 50,000 employees, it was reported.  The market will increasingly be focusing on 2009, and results and balance sheets will be keenly watched. With lending expected to remain tight, we can expect more companies joining HSBC under the spotlight for capital raising.
