The Australian bond market closed mixed on Tuesday as the worst business conditions report in 16 years convinced investors the central bank would keep cutting interest rates aggressively.  Economists say the local bond market would rally during offshore trade if Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens declined to rule out cutting interest rates at an unscheduled RBA board meeting in January.  At 1630 AEDT, the yield on the Commonwealth Government March 2019 bond was at 4.313 per cent, up from Monday's close of 4.293 per cent, while the yield on the June 2011 bond was at 3.497 per cent, down from 3.533 per cent.  On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the December 10-year bond futures contract price was at 95.685, down from Monday's close of 95.705, while the December three-year contract price was at 96.460, up from 96.425.  The front end of the Australian bond market rallied into the afternoon after the National Australia Bank's (NAB) monthly business survey measure of business conditions dropped six index points to minus 17 in November, its lowest level since late 1992.  It was the second largest fall in as many months after business conditions slipped 10 index points in October.  UBS senior economist Matthew Johnson said the dire news from the NAB survey boosted the front end of the curve as investors expected the RBA to keep cutting rates aggressively. 'Following the release of the very poor NAB survey, there's a conviction in the marketplace that the RBA will take rates lower and they'll get there quickly,' he said. In the afternoon, 10-year futures contract prices came off their lows in response to the NAB survey.  Earlier, the longer-dated 10-year futures contract prices had weakened in morning trade, as investors reacted to the announcement by US president-elect Barack Obama's administration that it would invest heavily in broadband, education and energy-efficient buildings.  The Australian bond market was expected to take direction on Tuesday night from Mr Stevens' address in Sydney to the Australian Business Economists annual dinner.  His speech is due to begin at 2025 AEDT.  Mr Johnson said the bond market would rally if, in response to a question, Mr Stevens' refused to rule out cutting rates in January a month when the RBA board did not usually meet. 'The RBA doesn't want to meet in January but it's easy to see events transpiring that way,' Mr Johnson said. 'The RBA will want to keep its options open.'  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
