NEWS - Govt 'car czar' would oversee bailout of U.S. automakers under terms being negotiated by the White House and Congress - German stock exchange operator Deutsche Boerse, New York counterpart NYSE Euronext said planning to merge - India central bank slashes key interest rate by 1 percentage point to boost growth - Obama says his jobs plan includes largest infrastructure investment since 1950s, huge effort to cut U.S. govt energy use - China's exports for Nov fall in value compared to same month last year, first such decline in more than 7 years, paper reports - Sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp unwilling to bail out Western financial firms, cites unfair restrictions MARKETS - U.S. stocks stage a late rally, Dow closes 259 points or 3.09 percent higher at 8,635 - Pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index closes down 4 percent at 793.94 points. Nikkei average falls 0.1 pct - Oil slides below $41 a barrel to its lowest level in nearly four years - Dollar rallies against yen on Wall Street's rebound. Euro falls 0.31 percent at $1.273 - Gold drops sharply to close just above $750 an ounce as dismal U.S. job report leads to higher dollar QUOTES 'Taxpayers should not be asked to finance assistance for automakers without a strong likelihood that they will be paid back.' - White House spokeswoman Dana Perino. 'First, we will launch a massive effort to make public buildings more energy-efficient. Our government now pays the highest energy bill in the world.' U.S. President-elect Barack Obama. 'The cumulative impact of the measures in today's package, together with earlier measures, should be to step up demand and arrest the growth moderation.' Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao. 'On the one hand, the U.S. needs us; on the other hand, they're suspicious toward us. They want us to invest at their will. That's not sincere cooperation.' - Wang Jianxi, deputy general manager of China Investment Corp (CIC). 'The market is so fearful now. Anything that feeds the fear is going to see a negative reaction until there's some news that either reverses that or says the (economic) problems are getting solved.' - Ray Rund, head of research at Shaker Investments in Cleveland, Ohio. EVENTS Monday, Dec. 8 BRUSSELS - ECB President Trichet testifies before European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, delivers speech at British Bankers' Association LONDON - Britain's Gordon Brown, France's Sarkozy and ECB chief Barroso meet European business leaders in London. (Compiled by World Desk, Americas, +1 202 898 8457) Keywords: FINANCIAL/SNAPSHOT COPYRIGHT Copyright  
