First off, every time I get online and look at the news and remember that     Obama   said it was time for Change.    This isn't the kind of Change that the people voted for.  I see now why the Middle East was in favor for Obama.  He is ruining this country and taking us all down with him.    He never wanted to see this nation flourish, he wants to end this beautiful nation by bankrupting us all.  Giving AIG more of our tax dollars and making us all pay for it.  Since we are all paying for their properties that they have so willing took back from families and the American people, shouldn't we own them and why can't we take possestion of them and take them from AIG?  Why doesn't AIG have insurance, they are an insurance company?  They are losing money left and right and it appears that we (Americans) are their insurance and Obama elected us to be their insurance company but yet we are not going to wreak any of the benefits of this.  We are going to have to pay them and we get nothing in return.   I always thought that our tax dollars was supposed to go to a govt that we elected to help us out, but we are literally in an Obamation right now and it is only going to get worse.     Our stock are falling and everytime that Obama gives more of our tax dollars away the worse it gets.  What is next?  How much further is he going to dig before we have a revolution and fight back and say NO MORE?     What is it going to take?  Our country is in dire straights right now and he hasn't even been in office 2 months yet..    Obama's first 100 days, what he has accomplished.   He has bankrupted the United States in less then 100 days, he has allowed the rich to get richer by taking from the working class and give to the Banks that stole all our properties from us.  He bailed out the rich and took from the working class to do it.    The poor thought they were the ones going to get bailed out and so did the working class, but in turn Obama succeeded in putting more Americans out of work and also succeeded in raising the homeless rates.  The unemployed has hit an all time high and the Stocks have hit an all time low.    This is the Change that Obama has done so far.  Hope this is the Change that all the Obama supporters wanted.    I know this isn't what I wanted...  I didn't vote for the man and I tried to tell people what would happen.  But I was told I was wrong.  Them Democrates lied again and they continue to do so..     I could go on and on, but I just don't have the desire.  I think that most of all of you get it now, for those of you that voted for him.  And for those of you that didn't..  I commend you for sticking up for what was right.
