      It's the  Constitution , stupid:    QUOTE    House passes bill taxing fat AIG and other bonuses House passes bill to tax employee bonuses at AIG, other companies with big bailouts      * Tom Raum, Associated Press Writer     * Thursday March 19, 2009, 7:56 pm EDT  WASHINGTON (AP) --  Denouncing a "squandering of the people's money," lawmakers voted decisively Thursday  to impose a 90 percent tax on millions of dollars in employee bonuses paid by troubled insurance giant AIG and other bailed-out companies.  In some cases the bonuses might be taxed 100 percent leaving the recipients with nothing.  It was only this past weekend that the bailed-out insurance giant paid bonuses totaling &#036;165 million to employees, including traders in the Financial Products unit that nearly brought about AIG's collapse.  AIG has received &#036;182.5 billion in federal bailout money and is now 80 percent government owned.  Disclosure of the bonuses touched off a national firestorm that both the Obama administration and Congress have scurried to contain.  The House vote was 328-93. Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate and President Barack Obama quickly signaled general support for the concept.  "I look forward to receiving a final product that will serve as a strong signal to the executives who run these firms that such compensation will not be tolerated," the president said in a statement.   "We want our money back now for the taxpayers,"  said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. "It isn't that complicated."  Rep. Charles Rangel, a New York Democrat, chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, said he expected local and state governments to take the remaining 10 percent of the bonuses, nullifying the pay-outs.  In a statement issued by the White House late Thursday, Obama said the House vote "rightly reflects the outrage that so many feel over the lavish bonuses that AIG provided its employees at the expense of the taxpayers who have kept this failed company afloat."  "In the end, this is a symptom of a larger problem -- a bubble-and-bust economy that valued reckless speculation over responsibility and hard work," he said. "That is what we must ultimately repair to build a lasting and widespread prosperity."  Obama did not explicitly endorse the House bill in his statement. Instead, he was careful to take a wait-and-see attitude on the details of the final legislation while making clear that he supports the effort to get the bonus money back for taxpayers.  The lopsided vote failed to reflect the contentious political battle that preceded it.  Republicans took Democrats to task for rushing to tax AIG bonuses worth an estimated &#036;165 million after the majority party stripped from last month's economic stimulus bill a provision that could have banned such pay-outs..  "This political circus that's going on here today with this bill is not getting to the bottom of the questions of who knew what and when did they know it," said House Republican Leader John Boehner.  He voted "no," but 85 fellow Republicans joined 243 Democrats in voting "yes." It was opposed by six Democrats and 87 Republicans.  The bill would impose a 90 percent tax on bonuses given to employees with family incomes above &#036;250,000 at American International Group and other companies that have received at least &#036;5 billion in government bailout money. It would apply to any such bonuses issued since Dec. 31.  The House vote, after just 40 minutes of debate, showed how quickly Congress can act when the political will is there.  Topic No. 1 raised by Republicans during the House debate was the last-minute altering of a provision in President Barack Obama's &#036;787 billion stimulus law to cap executive compensation for firms receiving government bailouts.  The measure might have forestalled payment of the AIG bonuses.  But Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat and the author of the provision, says the administration insisted that he modify his proposal so that it would only apply to payments agreed to in the future.  That, critics claim, cleared the way for the AIG pay-outs.  "The idea came from the administration," Dodd said Thursday  Dodd said he was not aware of any AIG bonuses at the time the change was made.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner confirmed such conversations with Dodd. He said the administration was worried about possible legal challenges to the provision.  "We expressed concern about this specific version," Geithner said in an interview with CNN. "But we also worked with him to strengthen the overall bill."  The treasury secretary, who has been criticized for not learning of the AIG bonus payments sooner since he helped orchestrate the bailout last year as president of the New York Fed, said anew in the interview that he was not informed of the bonuses until last week.  "And as soon as I heard about the full scale of these things, we moved very actively to explore every possible legal avenue to address this problem," Geithner said.  A similar -- but not as punitive -- bill to recoup bonus payments with taxes was gaining support in the Senate.  It would impose a 35 percent excise tax on the companies paying the bonuses and a 35 percent tax on the employees receiving them. The taxes would apply to all companies receiving government bailout money, but they are clearly geared toward AIG.  Meanwhile, New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, said AIG has given him the list of employees who received a total of &#036;165 million in retention bonuses.  Cuomo said he won't release any employees' names until his office has answered any security concerns raised by the AIG employees.  Obama administration special envoy Richard Holbooke was on AIG's board of directors in early 2008, when the insurance company committed to the bonuses, and during the previous years of aggressive investment strategies that brought the firm to brink of collapse. White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said Thursday: "Mr. Holbrooke had nothing to do with and knew nothing about the bonuses."  Associated Press writers Stephen Ohlemacher and Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed to this report.     The "bipartisanship" surrounding this witch-hunt bespeaks (or, perhaps, bemoans) the fact that it's easier to bow to popular outrage than to obey the law.  As has been pointed out elsewhere on GBS, this was nothing less than a violation of Constitutional law:    QUOTE     Bill of Attainder   Definition: A legislative act that singles out an individual or group for punishment without a trial.  The Constitution of the United States, Article I, Section 9, paragraph 3 provides that: "No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law will be passed."  "The Bill of Attainder Clause was intended not as a narrow, technical (and therefore soon to be outmoded) prohibition, but rather as an implementation of the separation of powers, a general safeguard against legislative exercise of the judicial function or more simply - trial by legislature."  U.S. v. Brown, 381 U.S. 437, 440 (1965).  "These clauses of the Constitution are not of the broad, general nature of the Due Process Clause, but refer to rather precise legal terms which had a meaning under English law at the time the Constitution was adopted.  A bill of attainder was a legislative act that singled out one or more persons and imposed punishment on them, without benefit of trial.  Such actions were regarded as odious by the framers of the Constitution because it was the traditional role of a court, judging an individual case, to impose punishment."  William H. Rehnquist, The Supreme Court, page 166.  "Bills of attainder, ex post facto laws,  and laws impairing the obligations of contracts , are contrary to the first principles of the social compact, and to every principle of sound legislation. ... The sober people of America are weary of the fluctuating policy which has directed the public councils.  They have seen with regret and indignation that sudden changes and legislative interferences, in cases affecting personal rights, become jobs in the hands of enterprising and influential speculators, and snares to the more-industrious and less-informed part of the community."  James Madison, Federalist Number 44, 1788.  Supreme Court cases construing the Bill of Attainder clause include:      * Ex Parte Garland, 4 Wallace 333 (1866).     * Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wallace 277 (1866).     * U.S. v. Brown, 381 U.S. 437 (1965).     * Nixon v. Administrator of General Services, 433 U.S.425 (1977).     * Selective Service Administration v. Minnesota PIRG, 468 U.S. 841 (1984).  See also, SBC v. FCC.     It doesn't MATTER if the AIG execs earned their pay or not, those bonuses were provided for contractually as much as a year ago, but if Senator Dodd hadn't changed the bill (which none of the "outraged" folks in Washington apparently read before voting for or signing it), it might not have mattered. But the political jockeying and the red-faced quick fix mask a more important problem: The dangerous precedent of Congress legislating punitive taxes on anyone they don't like, so long as they can successfully demonize that party in the media first. Moreover, this also means that Congress has taken upon itsef a power NOT granted by the Constitution, to interfere with contracts, which means that no agreement may be trusted as binding, so long as Congress has motive to annul.  But none of these whack-jobs, including "Constitutional lawyer" Obama, seems to know or care. Wonder if AIG likes being thrown under the bus by at least the top two recipients of its campaign contributions in Washington, Dodd and Obama?  ='[.]'=    ...
