-W. R. Berkley Corporation (NYSE: WRB) announced today that it estimates its third quarter operating income per share, including storm losses, to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.75 and its GAAP net loss per share to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.20. Operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure defined by the Company as net income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses. The Company's estimate includes after-tax storm losses of $41 million, or $0.24 per share, from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly as well as an unusually high number of wind and hail storms in the Midwest. The Company's loss estimate is net of reinsurance and includes both reinstatement premiums and estimated assessments from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. The Company's estimate also includes after-tax net realized investment losses, including impairments, of $143 million, or $0.85 per share. The estimated investment loss relates primarily to write downs for other-than-temporary declines in fair value of preferred equity holdings in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.The Company estimates that its net unrealized losses increased by $116 million for investments and by $33 million for currency translation adjustments in the third quarter of 2008. The increase in unrealized investment losses was primarily related to the impact of widening credit spreads across all fixed income sectors.The Company does not invest in CDOs, CLOs or similar financial products, has never been a party to any credit default swap and does not engage in securities lending. The Company holds approximately $4 million of fixed maturity securities issued by insurance operating subsidiaries of AIG and has no exposure to securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Company's fixed maturity portfolio has an average credit rating of AA without consideration of any credit enhancement.The Company estimates its stockholders' equity per share to be in the range of $18.80 to $18.90 at September 30, 2008.The Company continues to be well-capitalized and has no need to raise capital to support its current operations. Each of the major rating agencies has affirmed the Company's ratings in the past several weeks.The Company will release its third quarter 2008 earnings as scheduled after market close on Tuesday, October 28, 2008.Founded in 1967, W. R. Berkley Corporation is an insurance holding company that is among the largest commercial lines writers in the United States and operates in five segments of the property casualty insurance business: specialty insurance, regional property casualty insurance, alternative markets, reinsurance and international.Net operating income is a non-GAAP financial measure defined by the Company as net income excluding realized investment gains and losses. Management believes that excluding realized investment gains and losses, which result primarily from changes in general economic conditions, provides a useful indicator of trends in the Company's underlying operations.Forward Looking Information
