OMAHA, Neb., Oct. 13 /PRNewswire/ -- Travelex Insurance Services has just released major additions to their retail travel insurance portfolio with three new industry-leading products -- Travel Basic, Travel Select and Travel Max. With the addition of these new products, Travelex now offers the most comprehensive and innovative mix of coverages available in the industry.     Industry Exclusives include:    -- Trip Cancellation coverage for delays causing 30% or more of trip to be       missed    -- $1,000 Trip Interruption coverage available without the purchase of       Trip Cancellation    -- Waiver of pre-existing conditions available within 30 days of initial       trip deposit    -- Pre-existing conditions exclusion applies only to travelers    Highlights include:    -- Primary coverage -- reimburses for losses first, before any other       insurance    -- Competitive pricing -- a great value to travelers    -- Children under 18 covered at no additional cost    -- 12 hour Baggage Delay benefit    -- 5 hour Trip Delay benefit    -- 3 hour benefit for Missed Cruise Connections due to flight delays    -- 'Cancel for Any Reason Pak' upgrade    -- 'Transportation Pak' upgrade -- includes flight accident, roadside       assistance and a collision damage waiver for rental vehicles    Travelex travel insurance remains easy to understand with the new productsoffering their own distinct benefits and upgrades designed to meet eachindividual traveler's needs.    Travel Basic: An essential level of coverage with the most comprehensivebenefits in its category, and the only with bankruptcy and primary coverageincluded.  A great alternative to cruise and tour operator insurance!    Travel Select: Offers complete travel protection plus customization withfive optional 'Lifestyle Paks' -- Professional, Family, Adventurer, Protectorand Athlete/Student.    Travel Max: The highest level of protection with many extra benefitsincluded such as allowing travelers to choose their hospital of choice, petcoverage and identity theft services.    'These new products are yet another example of Travelex listening andresponding to customer needs to deliver simple yet comprehensive coverage,'said Michael J. Ambrose, President of Travelex Insurance Services.  'Travelersand travel agents can trust that Travelex is a strong and stable partner withcomprehensive insurance coverages to protect their travel investments.'    Travel Basic, Travel Select and Travel Max are underwritten by NationwideMutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies, rated A+ by A.M. Best.Nationwide is one of the largest insurance and financial services companies inthe world and has been in existence for more than 80 years.    Products may not be available in all states.    About Travelex Insurance Services:    Travelex Insurance Services, headquartered in Omaha Nebraska, is one ofthe leading travel insurance businesses in the United States.  The company wasfounded in 1996 when the Travelex Group purchased the travel insurancedistribution services of the Mutual of Omaha Companies.  Travelex delivers awide range of travel protection plans through travel agencies and touroperators, in major airports and online at http://www.travelexinsurance.com.    About the Travelex Group:    Travelex is the world's foreign exchange and business payments specialist.The group is also one of the world's leading providers of outsourced travelmoney to banks, travel agencies and other financial institutions.  The groupserves businesses and individual travelers through nearly 700 banks, stores,malls and airports in four regions: the Americas; United Kingdom; Europe,Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific.  For more information, visithttp://www.travelex.com/us.SOURCE  Travelex Insurance ServicesCONTACT: Bryan Alaspa of K Squared Communications, Inc., +1-773-774-7847, balaspa@ksqrd.com, for Travelex Insurance ServicesCopyright  2008 PR Newswire Travelex travel insurance remains easy to understand with the new products offering their own distinct benefits and upgrades designed to meet each individual traveler's needs. Travel Basic: An essential level of coverage with the most comprehensive benefits in its category, and the only with bankruptcy and primary coverage included. A great alternative to cruise and tour operator insurance! Travel Select: Offers complete travel protection plus customization with five optional 'Lifestyle Paks' -- Professional, Family, Adventurer, Protector and Athlete/Student. Travel Max: The highest level of protection with many extra benefits included such as allowing travelers to choose their hospital of choice, pet coverage and identity theft services. 'These new products are yet another example of Travelex listening and responding to customer needs to deliver simple yet comprehensive coverage,' said Michael J. Ambrose, President of Travelex Insurance Services. 'Travelers and travel agents can trust that Travelex is a strong and stable partner with comprehensive insurance coverages to protect their travel investments.' Travel Basic, Travel Select and Travel Max are underwritten by Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies, rated A+ by A.M. Best. Nationwide is one of the largest insurance and financial services companies in the world and has been in existence for more than 80 years. Products may not be available in all states. About Travelex Insurance Services: Travelex Insurance Services, headquartered in Omaha Nebraska, is one of the leading travel insurance businesses in the United States. The company was founded in 1996 when the Travelex Group purchased the travel insurance distribution services of the Mutual of Omaha Companies. Travelex delivers a wide range of travel protection plans through travel agencies and tour operators, in major airports and online at http://www.travelexinsurance.com. About the Travelex Group: Travelex is the world's foreign exchange and business payments specialist. The group is also one of the world's leading providers of outsourced travel money to banks, travel agencies and other financial institutions. The group serves businesses and individual travelers through nearly 700 banks, stores, malls and airports in four regions: the Americas; United Kingdom; Europe, Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific. For more information, visit http://www.travelex.com/us. SOURCE Travelex Insurance Services CONTACT: Bryan Alaspa of K Squared Communications, Inc., +1-773-774-7847, balaspa@ksqrd.com, for Travelex Insurance Services
