By Lavonne Kuykendall Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- Life insurers are beginning to follow the same script as banks and bond insurers in reporting big market-value write-downs on their investment holdings. So far, the markets aren't buying insurers' insistence that theirs is a fundamentally different story from the banks' tale. Stock prices of life insurers including MetLife Inc. (MET) and Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) plunged this week and last week after they pre-reported third-quarter investment losses and announced efforts to raise capital. Those declines pulled down other life insurers that, like MetLife and Hartford, have big holdings of mortgage-backed securities. The insurance companies insist they will have few mortgage-driven losses because they can hold onto the securities to maturity and the securities are still paying. The stock market, wary because banks and other financial-services firms had also argued that their mortgage investments were manageable, has begun punishing life insurance companies as well. Shares of MetLife were down 16% Wednesday to $30.98, and are down more than 45% in the past month. Shares of Hartford were down 1.4% to $28.23 Wednesday and are down some 57% in the past month. Even Allstate Corp. (ALL), which primarily writes homeowners and auto insurance, was being punished Wednesday, with shares dropping more than 12% to $33.33. As happened with the banks and bond insurers, ratings agencies led the charge against the shares. Moody's Investors Service cited Hartford's holdings in structured securities including non-prime residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial real estate securities among the reasons it changed its outlook on Hartford and its life insurance subsidiaries to negative this week. Last week, Fitch revised its outlook for U.S. life insurers to negative from stable, in large part due to the expected earnings impact of investment losses, both realized and unrealized. In a recent note on Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG), Fitch noted that even the higher-rated mortgage-backed securities favored by insurers aren't immune to problems. Potential To Spread 'Industry write-downs have the potential to spread to higher rated securities, creating adverse financial effects for the company in the second half of 2008,' Fitch said. On Tuesday, MetLife said that gross unrealized losses on its fixed maturity securities rose by $7 billion to $17 billion before taxes at the end of the third quarter from $10 billion in June. MetLife's $328 billion investment portfolio consists of about 6% U.S. Treasury holdings, 26% structured finance, including mortgage-backed securities, 41% corporate credits and 18% in real estate holdings. Yet MefLife said its actual expected losses on its fixed-income holdings will be around only $490 million. Of the $490 million after-tax in credit related losses, around $375 million or 77% related to defaulting or impaired major financial-services credits such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ), Washington Mutual Inc. (WM) and American International Group Inc. (AIG). MetLife says that, except for the $490 million or so in expected losses, the rest of the $17 billion in market-value write-downs will end up being reversed as markets improve. It says most of the write-downs are not even related to the housing market crisis that has helped to bring down AIG, Lehman Brothers, Washington Mutual and others. At the end of the second quarter, MetLife held around $54 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities. The company said it expected little in the way of losses there. 'We have very little exposure to the most troublesome expects of the residential mortgage market,' said William Wheeler, MetLife's chief financial officer, during a conference call the company held Wednesday to discuss its third-quarter results. The increase in market-value write-downs in the third quarter is primarily driven by credit spreads, not mortgage losses, which Wheeler expects to be minimal. Shoring Up Capital Both MetLife and Hartford are shoring up their capital to calm jittery markets, with Hartford selling a company stake for $2.5 billion and MetLife planning a 75 million common stock issue. Hartford Financial preannounced its third-quarter results Monday. The company reported net unrealized losses of $3.4 billion to $4.2 billion after tax and deferred acquisition costs. Its realized losses were a much-lower $2.1 to $2.2 billion, and mostly related to its investments in financial-services firms, including Lehman Brothers and AIG, not to its residential mortgage holdings. A well-placed insurance company insider argued that insurers are far more picky in their securities purchases because they are buy-and-hold investors rather than package-and-sell marketers, as were many banks. 'They have skin in the game' and so avoided any mortgages that weren't top notch, he said. But many are skeptical that life insurers, which hold huge investment portfolios to back insurance policies, will get away that cleanly. That fear has helped pull down share prices for other life insurers with mortgage-backed securities in their investment portfolios. Principal Financial, Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP), Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU), Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW), Lincoln National Corp. (LNC) are among the life insurers that have followed the shares of MetLife and Hartford down in the past week. Part of the disconnect between life insurers and the rest of the market could have something to do with the art of determining whether market-value write-downs will eventually turn into losses or not. Life insurers and other financial-services firms 'are very different in the timing and the extent of recognizing losses,' said Steven Weisbart of the Insurance Information Institute. 'The factors we consider in the impairment process include the length of time and extent of the unrealized loss, the financial condition of the issuer and whether we have received and believe will will continue to receive all anticipated cash flows,' said Steven Kandarian, MetLife's chief investment officer, during the company's second-quarter investment call in July. To hear the insurers tell it, borrowers backing their securities are sending in their mortgage checks on time and in full. -By Lavonne Kuykendall, Dow Jones Newswires; (312) 750-4141; lavonne.kuykendall@dowjones.com Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=77znUA3kjavnLZNSIfQT9w%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
