RENO, Nev., Oct. 29 /PRNewswire/ --  Ormat Funding Corp. (the 'Company'), a wholly owned subsidiary of Ormat Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: ORA), today declared the Expiration and Effective Date of the consent solicitation launched on October 16, 2008 relating to the Company's 8 1/4% Senior Secured Notes due December 30, 2020, CUSIP No.: 686685AB4 (the 'Consent Solicitation'). Holders of more than 98% of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes have delivered and not revoked their valid consents. The Consent Solicitation and Waivers granted pursuant thereto are no longer revocable, effective at 5:00 p.m. New York City time, October 29, 2008.The Consent Solicitation grants the Company approval to replace an aging power plant at the Mammoth project with a new larger plant, and/or to construct a new plant while maintaining the existing power plants at the Mammoth geothermal project, to construct and install solar power generation equipment to enhance the Brady and Ormesa projects and to enter into a potential equity transaction whereby the Company's parent company will sell a portion of its equity interest in the Company to an institutional investor that is able to utilize certain federal income tax benefits.Barclays Capital Inc. acted as the Solicitation Agent for the Consent Solicitation. Union Bank of California, N.A., served as the Tabulation and Information Agent for the Consent Solicitation.This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities nor shall there be any sale of securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.Safe Harbor StatementInformation provided in this press release may contain statements relating to current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events that are 'forward-looking statements' as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally relate to Ormat Funding Corp's plans, objectives and expectations for future operations and are based upon its management's current estimates and projections of future results or trends. Actual future results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties.These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Ormat Funding Corp. Smadar Lavi 1-775-762-3271 slavi@ormat.comSOURCE Ormat Funding Corp.
