A handful of top executives from American International Group spent thousands of dollars during a recent English hunting trip, even as the New York-based insurer asked for an additional $US37.8 billion ($A54.1 billion) loan from the Federal Reserve. 'This was an annual event for customers of the AIG property casualty insurance companies in the UK and Europe, and planned months before the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's loan to AIG,' company spokesman Peter Tulupman said on Wednesday.AIG officials declined to say which AIG executives attended the trip, which reports have said racked up an $US86,000 ($A123,000) tab. News of the trip surfaced just days after AIG received an additional $US37.8 billion ($A54.1 billion) loan from the Federal Reserve, on top of a previous $US85 billion ($A120 billion) emergency loan granted last month.The company said last week it would stop 'all non-essential conferences, meetings and activities that do not clearly maximise value and service given the current conditions'. Last month, and just days after the US government stepped in to save AIG with a $US85 billion ($A120 billion) taxpayer-funded loan, the company picked up a $US440,000 ($A630,000) tab for a week-long retreat at a posh California resort for top-performing insurance agents.Politicians investigating AIG's meltdown said they were enraged that executives of AIG's main US life insurance subsidiary spent a lavish amount on the retreat, complete with spa treatments, banquets and golf outings. Last week, White House Press Secretary Dana Perino called the event 'despicable'. At that time, AIG issued a statement saying that the 'business event' was planned months before the September 16 bailout and that it was held for top-producing independent life insurance agents, not AIG employees. Of the 100 attendees, only 10 worked for the AIG unit hosting the event, it said.The insurer said Chief Executive Edward Liddy sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson 'clarifying the circumstances' of the event. In the letter, Liddy assured Paulson that AIG is 're-evaluating the costs of all aspects of our operations in light of the new circumstances in which we are all operating'. The insurer then said it cancelled a future California retreat that was to be held later this month.Regarding the recent hunting trip, 'We regret that this event was not cancelled,' Tulupman said. 'AIG's priority is to continue to focus on maximising the value of our businesses and protecting our policyholders so we can repay the Federal Reserve loan and emerge as a vital, ongoing business,' he said. Shares of AIG fell 26 cents or 9.3 per cent to $US2.54 ($A3.64) in afternoon trading.
