- Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c706fc/oman_insurance_rep) has announced the addition of the 'Oman Insurance Report Q3 2008' report to their offering. Oman Insurance Report provides independent forecasts and competitive intelligence on Oman's insurance industry. In Q308, the key change is that we have incorporated much more information about the companies that are operating across the regions of which each country is a part. We have sought to make it much clearer who is operating in each country and under what name(s). Perhaps equally importantly, our profiles make it plain which multinational companies are not operating in each country. In the Middle East and North Africa, we profile 17 companies. These are AGF, AIG, Allianz, Aviva, AXA, Cardif, ERGO, Eureko, Fortis, Generali, Groupama, HSBC Insurance, Liberty Mutual, MAPFRE, RSA, UNIQA and Zurich Financial Services. We also look at a number of the smaller local firms that are active in the region, particularly in Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. For almost all the countries whose reports we are updating, we are also able to include actual data for calendar-year 2007; this was not the case for our Q208 reports. In 2007, total premiums in Oman rose by 26% to OMR182mn. Non-life premiums rose by 23% to OMR157mn, while life premiums rose by 47% to OMR25mn. Between now and the end of the forecast period, we expect that annual non-life premiums will grow by OMR79mn, while annual life premiums should increase by OMR33mn. Growth in non-life premiums should be driven by the general growth in nominal GDP plus a rise in non-life penetration from the current level of 1.05% to 1.30%. Growth in life premiums should be driven by the change in the overall population and a rise in life density from US$20.00 to US$40.00 per capita. Insurance Business Environment Rating is 48.0. Key Topics Covered: - The Sector At A Glance - Key Insights On Oman- Oman Insurance Industry SWOT - Development Of BMI- Projections And Forecasts - Projections And Drivers Of Growth - Country Update - Macroeconomic Outlook - Political Outlook - Foreign Policy - Regional Context - Analysis Of Competitive Conditions - Regional Overview - Company Profiles - Methodology - Insurance Business Environment Rating Companies Mentioned: - AGF - AIG - Allianz - Aviva - AXA - Cardif - Ergo - Eureko - Fortis - Generali - Groupama - HSBC Insurance - Liberty Mutual - MAPFRE - RSA - UNIQA - Zurich For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/c706fc/oman_insurance_rep. Can't find what you want? Try using Google:
