NEW YORK -- Concerns about the health of American International Group Inc. were renewed Thursday, a day after the insurance giant said it would receive an additional $37.8 billion loan from the Federal Reserve. 'The bottom line is, they need more liquidity than they thought,' said Mark Lane, an analyst for William Blair &amp;amp; Co. The new loan is on top of a two-year, $85 billion loan AIG received last month from the Fed in an effort to stay in business. AIG shares fell 73 cents, or 23 percent, to $2.46 in late afternoon trading. AIG is apparently facing a liquidity crunch greater than was anticipated a month ago when the U.S. government first bailed out the company. The new loan will help AIG cover requests from clients to redeem borrowed securities. In the past, these securities were previously loaned by AIG's insurance company subsidiaries to third parties in return for cash. The cash would then be reinvested in an attempt to increase returns. Now, Lane said, clients who borrowed securities want to return them to AIG and get their cash back. Amid the continuing credit crisis, financial firms have been hoarding cash for fear of future losses on investments. The situation has also spooked banks into nearly shutting off lending amongst each other. The problem is, AIG 'didn't have the money to give it back,' Lane said. 'That means that somebody else has to step in to take that other borrower out of the transaction.' That is where the new Fed loan comes into play. The New York Federal Reserve Bank will loan AIG the $37.8 billion and in return receive the securities that AIG now holds again, Lane said. The securities are investment-grade, fixed-income securities. The arrangement will help AIG secure funds on an as-needed basis, the New York-based insurer said Wednesday in a statement. On the brink of failure last month, AIG was bailed out when the government offered it an $85 billion loan during the ongoing credit crisis that saw Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. file for bankruptcy protection and the sale of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. to Bank of America Corp. In return for the two-year loan, the government received warrants to purchase up to 79.9 percent of AIG. 
