 IT budgets for insurers should be more stable than those for the banking sector in 2009, with neither robust spending nor dramatic budget cuts likely to emerge. Their spending priorities will however shift toward risk management and compliance, at the expense of discretionary projects, such as IT-led sales and service initiatives. To make this shift in their priorities, both US and European insurers will marginally trim their IT spend, meaning once forecasted robust technology investment will remain off the agenda. Such are the outlooks seen by Datamonitor, which said the mixed IT plans of life and non-life insurers suggest the industry is "hobbled" but not facing "a systemic crisis." Its recent survey found that 50% of non-life practitioners anticipated flat IT budgets, while 27% and 18% predicted increases, of 1-5% and over 6% respectively. Life insurers were more tepid, with the majority noting a flat budget environment, with European firms mirroring their US counterparts, the first half-year survey found. Yet it should be noted that since the survey was conducted, insurance leader AIG has fallen and credit has become much more expensive and difficult to access. As a result, those insurers that pencilled in major IT spending plans will only up their IT expenditure marginally, while the more moderate spenders will see their budgets plateau. However, Jonathan Steiman, Datamonitor's financial services IT analyst, said the troubles experienced by the American-headquartered insurer were not seminal. He said: "AIG, which has been the only major casualty in the insurance sector to date, was felled by a small group writing credit default swaps, not its insurance business. Therefore, its situation is exceptional, rather than a sign of things to come." The analyst said his comments were not intended to underestimate the credit-crunch effects on insurers: as well as lower demand for their services, both life and non-life insurers are struggling with weak investment income. Stocks, bonds and real estate have all lost value since last year, and a number of major insurers had large positions in battered institutions, such as AIG, Washington Mutual, Lehman Brothers and Wachovia. "Despite the dour news related to a few large and key players [such as AIG], the industry overall is marked by highly regulated companies that possess conservative portfolios," Steiman said. "Insurers are feeling the effects of the 'toxic' debt storm but, unlike the banking industry which is in the eye of the storm, the insurance industry has a sound business model. Insurers with aggressive and risky portfolios are rare, and are the firms most likely to suffer from the current situation." In line with business lobbyists, the IT analyst said the US insurance industry has been controlled by a cumbersome state-based regulatory regime, which has hindered innovation. However, Steiman also said those same unpopular regulations have served to shelter, and seem set to continue to shelter, the insurance sector from the fallout of the banking crisis.
