This great land hosts some great rivalries: Oilers versus Flames, Queens against McGill.In business, there's nothing quite like the competition between Manulife and Sun Life. The fierce, long-standing enmity between these two insurers will colour the bidding war that's about to break out over U.S. targets.And when the dust settles, there's a real chance one or both of these companies overpays on an acquisition.The roots of the Manulife-Sun Life rivalry goes back generations, to Sun's patrician Anglo Montreal roots and Manulife's scrappy, Toronto outsider self-image. The two have battled for clients and talent in Canada, Europe and Asia for decades, with everyone from agents up to head office routinely slugging it out. More  Stories       Go to the  section  If anything, this generation of leaders has intensified the competition, with Manulife gaining the upper hand. Manulife CEO Dominic D'Alessandro has done a fabulous job of going public, then building one of North America's premier insurers with the successful integration of John Hancock, an $11-billion takeover.Sun Life's Don Stewart, on the other hand, stumbled with a U.S. annuities acquisition that didn't work well back in 2001, and leads a company that's much smaller than Manulife and trades at a lower valuation.Both companies are now bidding for pieces of AIG, and will be kicking tires at other troubled U.S. insurers.Sun Life built a war chest on Monday by selling its stake in CI Financial, a leading domestic mutual fund platform, for $2.3-billion. Manulife has at least that much extra equity capital on its balance sheet, and relatively low debt levels. The stage is set for two aggressive, well-financed companies to make transformational deals.Now, it's entirely possible that this pair end up focusing on different targets, and never cross paths in coming weeks. But that's unlikely.The more probable scenario sees a new chapter written in a storied Canadian rivalry. If Manulife and Sun Life end up bidding for the same troubled U.S. insurer, you can be sure the investment bankers working for the seller will stoke the flames. The business of insurance will get deeply personal. No CEO or board will admit it, but such a dynamic can have a nasty outcome for shareholders. The 'winner' in a contested auction could end up overpaying for a busted asset. And in today's insurance industry, busted assets can contain portfolios of toxic credit products that seep out onto balance sheets for years to come. Dearth of banksAs bidders prepare offers for units of American International Group, Canadian insurers are running into a phenomenon they've never encountered before: There aren't enough U.S. investment banks to go around.Potential buyers such as Manulife and Sun Life normally have to swat bankers away, like pesky flies. That's not the case with AIG in play.The insurers have in-house expertise in M&amp;amp;A, so a lack of bankers won't keep the locals off the field. (Great-West Life is expected to sit this one out, as it's still digesting Putnam Investments.)And the Canadian insurers will have no problem hiring advisers from domestic investment banks, which means they'll have outside takeover expertise and access to capital. Scotia Capital led Manulife's initial public offering, while RBC Dominion Securities did the honours for Sun Life. So no prizes for guessing the locals that might bankroll this pair in the AIG sweepstakes. But expertise in U.S. insurance acquisitions is suddenly at a premium, on the eve of what is expected to be a whirlwind auction of up to $28-billion (U.S.) worth of life insurance and wealth management divisions. The problem starts with the number of advisers already working on some element of the AIG rescue.Morgan Stanley, an investment bank with deep historic ties to Sun Life, is advising the U.S. government on the $85-billion credit facility that's keeping AIG alive. So it's conflicted.The same goes for JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, both of which are advising AIG on the auction. Obviously, two former Wall Street powerhouses are not in the running: Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers are out of business. Market chatter has Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse and UBS Securities all riding foreign horses in this race, likely Asian, European or rival U.S. insurance companies. The prize steed is China Life, seen as the front runner for AIG's Asian operations.With the largest Wall Street dealers already tied up, look for M&amp;amp;A boutiques such as Lazard, Greenhill &amp;amp; Co. and Evercore Partners to play starring roles for buyers. The AIG auction is expected to begin in earnest next week, and play out quickly, with sales being announced by the end of the year.That $28-billion estimate on the value of AIG units comes from a Credit Suisse bust-up analysis, done last week. If the U.S. units are sold first, they will include a life insurance business that Credit Suisse estimates could fetch up to $5.9-billion, a group retirement products division worth up to $9.8-billion and an individual annuities business that could command up to $8.2-billion.See Andrew Willis's Streetwise Blog at ReportonBusiness.com 
