(Adds detail.) CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--As American International Group Inc. (AIG) prepares to announce Friday which businesses it will sell to pay off its $85 billion Federal Reserve line of credit, the insurer's customers and investors have one bit of advice: Hurry up. Corporate risk managers responsible for their company's insurance coverage are taking the insurance giant's problems to heart. In a survey of 1,000 risk managers conducted by insurance researcher Advisen Ltd., 71% of AIG commercial-lines policyholders said they plan to get quotes from AIG competitors when their policies are up for renewal. In its report, Advisen said the large percentage of wavering customers would be of 'concern' to AIG, 'and encouraging to AIG's competitors.' Potential investors in AIG's assets for sale may be impatient as well. Although Edward Liddy, AIG's chief executive and architect of the company's breakup, has said he plans to keep the insurance businesses intact, rivals have suggested an interest in those businesses. AIG plans an investor update Friday. Liddy has said he hopes to keep AIG's core insurance businesses intact and wants to have a list of assets for sale, and maybe even execute some by Friday's meeting. On Wednesday AIG announced that its Financial Products unit sold its interest in London City Airport, which it bought in 2006. It didn't disclose terms. An AIG spokesman said he couldn't comment on any potential sales plans. But investment bankers are positioning themselves to advise Europe's insurers on potential AIG purchases. Most of the region's large players set up internal committees to decide which AIG assets would be of interest several weeks ago, bankers said. One European banker suggested that AIG's Japanese life insurance subsidiaries AIG Edison Life Insurance Co. and AIG Star Life Insurance Co. could be put on the block. He added that Hartford Steam Boiler, a U.S. company, and AIG's European private bank could also be slated for sale. In the U.S., major insurance rivals have mostly been mum about any acquisitions, and some analysts suggest the companies are aggressively going after AIG customers instead. On Wednesday, Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRKA BRKB) announced a $3 billion investment in General Electric Co. (GE), which operates the largest competitor to AIG's aircraft-leasing business, ILFC Corp. Buffett had been mentioned as a potential buyer for ILFC, but his investment in GE makes that seem less likely. Buffett said during a CNBC interview last week that he had looked at one or two AIG units, but hadn't had time to put a deal together. Since then he announced his GE investment and a deal to reinsure a portion of AIG's Lexington property-insurance business. Berkshire Hathaway operates a variety of insurance and reinsurance companies and is a competitor to AIG in several lines. According to reinsurance experts, negotiations for a reinsurance contract cover many of the same issues that would be considered in an acquisition, which could put Buffett in a good position for a potential buy. Maurice R. Greenberg, AIG's former chief executive and its largest individual shareholder, has said in Securities and Exchange Commission filings that he or companies he controls may bid for AIG assets. New York Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo said he would be open to Greenberg purchasing AIG assets despite ongoing civil litigation. Commercial insurance rivals Liberty Mutual Insurance Group and W.R. Berkley Corp. (WRB) have both declined to say whether they will make bids on any AIG insurance businesses. In Europe, Mediobanca SpA (MB.MI) Chief Executive Alberto Nagel said in September that the Milan-based merchant bank would consider looking at AIG's private-banking operations. Zurich Financial Services AG (ZFSVY) declined to comment on whether it is interested in AIG assets. The company, which has spent more than $2 billions on takeovers in the past few months, however, has repeatedly said it was on the lookout for bolt-on acquisitions if they come at the right price. The company, among others, is interested in life-insurance operations, saying profits are more stable in this sector compared to property and casualty, where prices are softening. A spokeswoman for Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G.MI) declined to comment on press and market rumors that it would consider a purchase of some of AIG's non-U.S. assets. People close to the Italian insurer also added that any decision on the AIG issue was too soon to be discussed. Swiss Reinsurance Co. (SWCEY) also declined to comment on AIG. Chief Financial Officer George Quinn recently said the reinsurer was on the lookout to boost its run-off life insurance business in which it buys closed portfolios from competitors. Usually Swiss Re is able to buy these businesses at a discount and, thanks to its size, can produce above-average profit margins as it folds the acquired portfolios into its AdminRe unit. Analysts doubt Swiss Re could bid for AIG's 59% stake in property/casualty reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings Inc. (TRH), saying such a step would markedly increase the company's exposure to the U.S., where, in 2007, it bought GE's reinsurance business. Transatlantic Holdings said last week that it is considering proposals it has received from AIG regarding the disposition of its stake. Shares of AIG recently traded down 7 cents at $3.89. -By Lavonne Kuykendall, Dow Jones Newswires; 312-750-4141; lavonne.kuykendall@dowjones.com (Victoria Howley in London, Goran Mijuk in Zurich and Sabrina Cohen in Milan contributed to this report.) 
