Puget Sound Business Journal (Seattle)  The Seattle Post-Intelligencer has notified several staffers that they have been selected to work for an online venture, fueling more speculation that parent company Hearst Corp. plans to run an internet news operation after it shutters the daily newspaper.  According to a post on the P-I website Thursday afternoon, two reporters say they have provisional offers from P-I New Media boss Michelle Nicolosi or Hearst executive Ken Riddick.  The reporters, who declined to elaborate on the details of the offers, said they expect formal offers if New York-based Hearst gives the green light for the web-only P-I.  One reporter, Hector Castro, said he was offered a web spot that would mean an increase in his health insurance cost but a cut in pay.  Castro said he would be required to give up his P-I severance pay. The offer also would require Castro to agree to reduced vacation and no overtime.  The P-I post said Castro turned down the offer.  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  4Q earnings fall 70% for FPIC  [Jacksonville]  IMA Financial forms new insurance subsidiary  [Wichita]  AIG loses $61.7B, more government help coming  [South Florida]  HMAA reports $141K loss in Q4  [Honolulu]  Two indicted for Georgia Medicaid fraud  [Atlanta]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Seattle  Extra  Best sports teams  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by  Real Estate Paralegal - Laird Norton Company, LLC  Internal Auditor - Lummi Business Indian Council  Real Estate Portfolio Manager - Laird Norton Company, LLC  Public Information Officer - King Conservation District  Primary Care Physician  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Seattle Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 12,720 SF  Use Type: Lease  Seattle Business Directory  Washington Articles Seattle Articles Advertising Seattle Business Services Seattle Career Seattle Cars Seattle Education Seattle Financial Services Seattle Health Seattle Home Services Seattle Insurance Seattle Internet Seattle Legal Seattle Real Estate Seattle Software Seattle Telecommunications Seattle Travel Seattle  
