WASHINGTON - Citing a foundering economy that has some sponsors slow to re-up, the U.S. Olympic Committee will reduce its workforce by up to 15% and institute other cost-cutting measures.  The reductions were announced Tuesday after the USOC's quarterly board of directors meeting. USOC CEO Jim Scherr said the board agreed to cut $7.1 million from what had been an estimated $142.6 million budget for 2009. 'Most companies have been affected by the economy,' Scherr said. 'They have had to make difficult choices, and we're not immune to that. ... It's a tough day for the organization.' Officials at USOC's headquarters in Colorado Springs  where most of the organization's 425 employees are based  were notified of the layoffs in a conference call. The USOC also will cut back on administrative costs, including travel.  It's the third time in the last six years that the USOC has turned to layoffs to reduce costs, according to USOC spokesman Darryl Seibel.  Since the 2008 Summer Games, General Motors, Home Depot and Kellogg decided not to renew their sponsorship deals with the USOC. The organization is still working to get AT&amp;T and Bank of America to re-up. 'We fully anticipate that we'll continue to build on our slate of existing sponsors, but at this point in time it's been slower than in the past,' Scherr said. 'We also want to position (the USOC) for a further potential downturn in the economy and make changes now while we still have the opportunity.' The USOC is insulated in large part by its share of the $2.2 billion NBC will pay to broadcast the 2010 and 2012 Olympics. But USOC's cut of those rights fees, currently at 12.75%, is being discussed and could soon be reduced.  The cutbacks have less to do with 'the possible reduction in TV revenues specifically, but a reduction in revenue due to the recession,' Scherr said. Seibel said the organization would have a month-long evaluation to determine where to trim. Funding for athletes, national governing bodies  such as USA Gymnastics and USA Hockey  and Chicago's bid for the 2016 Summer Games would not be affected.  Board members were briefed on the status of the bid. Chicago's organizers will make a presentation at Sportaccord, a meeting of international sports organizations set for this month in Denver, and an International Olympic Committee evaluation team will visit in April. 'Those are two big dates,' Scherr said. 'I think they're really well-positioned and they'll wow the commission.'
