Distressed properties offered; few buyers  With the rate of foreclosures increasing this year, the staff at the Rock County Sheriff's Department's Civil Division is busier than ever getting properties ready for sale.  We've been busy. It never stops, said Sgt. John Cowan, of the Rock County Sheriff Department's Civil Process Division.  In 2008, for example, there were 490 foreclosures. That number has steadily climbed since 2005 when there were 300 foreclosures per year. In 2006 it climbed to 351 foreclosures; and in 2007, 388 foreclosures.  It looks like we are at the same pace as last year, Cowan said.  At Wednesday's sale there were six properties put out for bid and six adjournments. The adjournments could be good news, Cowan said, because it means the banks may have worked out a solution with the home owners.  There was one property in Milton, one in Janesville and four up for bid from Beloit. The Beloit sales were the following: 1137 Bluff S., $44,000; 917 McKinley, $52,000; 1709 Grant St., $74,400; 725 W. Grand Ave., $16, 815.  All six properties put out to bid on Wednesday, however, were returned to the banks. Cowan said that's normal. Typically, 98 percent of the foreclosed properties are returned to the bank's possession.  During a sheriff's sale, attorneys from banks open with a bid established by the bank which is read off by Cowan. Of the 490 foreclosures last year in Rock County, only about 12 were sold at the sheriff's auction.  There is not a lot of interest in buying up these properties, Cowan said.  In addition to the complexities of purchasing property during a sheriff's sale, Cowan said that banks typically don't want to lower the bids because the former owners may owe more than the homes are worth because of declining values. If a house is worth $100,000 for example, it may have a mortgage of $140,000.  Banks would like to get rid of them, but they don't want to take a big loss on them either, Cowan said.  Dave Adkins of Blackhawk Bank said the opening bids are usually about what the homeowners owe the bank. Despite the bank wanting to recoup its money, however, Adkins said it's costly for a bank to keep them. Every effort is made to work out a payment schedule with homeowners to avoid foreclosure.  The second I hang a bank-owned tag on a piece of property the value drops 20 percent, Adkins said.  Adkins said excessive foreclosures can be bad because they affect home values in the surrounding neighborhood.  The longer issues like this are out there the more far reaching they are, Adkins said.  Cowan added that popular banks listed at sheriff's sales are Deutsche Bank, U.S. Bank National Association and LaSalle Bank, all of which are more national banks.  Even if a property is not sold at the sheriff's sale, banks can ask a judge for a writ of assistance to help remove tenants from their properties. Then those at the Sheriff's Department will pick a date and go remove the tenants and their property.  Cowan said those in the Civil Process Division try to work with those living in the foreclosed homes. If they don't have a place to go, temporary shelter will be found for them.  We set a date and we show up. The property is packed away by professional movers and stored on the owner's behalf. To get it back, they have to pay for moving and storage, Cowan said. It's emotional on all sides. We don't like that part of our job.  
