BARRE  James Pumpelly of Barre has been indicted by a federal grand jury on charges linked to his involvement with Parkside Management, charges that include misappropriation of federal housing funds, forging checks and more.  According to a 15-page federal indictment obtained late Monday by The Times Argus and Rutland Herald, Pumpelly is scheduled to be arraigned on March 16 in United States District Court in Burlington.  An attorney with the U.S. Attorney's Office could not be reached for comment late Monday. Although papers indicated the indictment had been sealed on Feb. 25 and an arrest warrant issued, it could not be confirmed whether Pumpelly had, in fact, been arrested on the charges.  The indictment signed by U.S. Attorney Thomas Anderson in Rutland alleges that Pumpelly served as agent of Parkside Management and Rental Company LLC, located in Montpelier, and was authorized by his girlfriend, Parkside owner Julie Clemons, to act on behalf of the company.  Parkside, the indictment stated, provided property management to landlords who owned and rented out apartments. The company was, in addition to other duties, in charge of collecting rents and security deposits for those landlords and then paying the money to those landlords after deducting fees. Some of those properties were Section 8 units with federal subsidies, and those tenants had part of their rents paid by the federal government.  The indictment alleges that housing authorities, including the Barre Housing Authority and the Vermont State Housing Authority, paid about $75,000 in Section 8 subsidies to Parkside from October 2007 to January 2008.  'Parkside paid virtually none of these federal funds over to the landlords,' the indictment read. 'Instead, Pumpelly diverted these Section 8 monies to the benefit of Parkside, himself and Clemons. None of these misappropriated funds has been repaid.'  A second charge alleges that in 2006, Pumpelly received a Bank of America credit card, then transferred it to someone identified only as L.U. without L.U.'s knowledge. The company then sent L.U.  at Parkside's address  blank advance checks, which Pumpelly allegedly forged. The indictment indicates that Bank of America was hit for $4,200 under the scheme.  A similar allegation was made involving American Express, a plan the indictment alleges cost that company about $19,000. In that case, which also involved L.U., Pumpelly moved funds into Clemons account at Community National Bank.  A third charge alleges that in December 2007, Pumpelly was able to induce $30,000 from David Raymond to buy a half interest in a house in Claremont, N.H., that Pumpelly and Clemons were leasing. Raymond was unaware that the two had already defaulted on the lease and the investment was lost, the allegation reads.  It was not clear from the documents if Clemons is under further investigation in the case.  Parkside abruptly shut down in January 2008 and became the target of an embezzlement investigation after complaints that rent monies, security deposits and fees for services paid to Parkside were not passed along as required by the management company.  Pumpelly is set to be arraigned on March 16 before Judge John M. Conroy.  
