The U.S. Olympic Committee is close to finalizing a deal with Procter &amp; Gamble that would place its five-ring logo alongside some of the Cincinnati companys biggest health and beauty brands. P&amp;G agreed to a deal with the USOC in February that gives the company rights to several categories. Sources valued terms of the deal for the collective categories, which were not available, in the $10 million to $15 million range overall for the next four years.  Jason Dial, director of global sports marketing for Cincinnati-based Procter &amp; Gamble (NYSE: PG) , directed requests for comment to a P&amp;G spokesman, who declined to comment on the companys plans. P&amp;G spokeswoman Tami Jones also declined to comment. 'As a matter of policy, we dont typically discuss future or potential marketing plans,' she said in an e-mail.  USOC spokesman Darryl Seibel said, We are engaged in discussions with a number of companies across a variety of industry sectors. As to exactly who those companies are that is something we do not disclose. The prospective deal comes at a critical juncture for the USOC, which depends on sponsorship revenue for 48 percent of its budget. Key partners Home Depot, General Motors and Kelloggs declined to renew their deals with the organization after 2008, and Bank of America and AT&amp;T remain in renewal talks two months after their deals expired.  The relationship with P&amp;G would give the USOC ties to one of the largest media buyers in the U.S. It also would put the organization alongside the NFL as one of the few sports properties to secure a multibrand deal with the giant corporation that boasts a $139 billion market capitalization.  The deal would give P&amp;G the chance to align its array of female products with a sports property that claims a larger female following than any other in the U.S. According to a March 2008 survey by Lieberman Research Worldwide, 51 percent of U.S. women are interested in the Olympic brand. Only the NFL came close to that with 39 percent interest among women, according to the study.  Though the expected deal with P&amp;G would offer an immediate boost to the USOCs bottom line, it does come with a price. Johnson &amp; Johnson, a 20-year partner of the organization, reached a verbal agreement on a deal with USOC Chief Executive Jim Scherr (see related story) and partnership marketing director Susan Goldsmith in December. That deal, which sources valued at $8 million from 2009-12 in value-in-kind and cash, made J&amp;J the official health care products sponsor, giving it an array of categories from skin care to pain relief where it could activate brands such as Aveeno and Tylenol. J&amp;J learned that the terms of the deal it thought it had agreed to had changed when sponsorship executives Owen Rankin and Dave Mingey flew to Vancouver for a USOC marketing summit the week of Feb. 16, sources in attendance said. The company already had begun making activation plans for the Vancouver Games and was scheduled to make a presentation at the summit. Executives, though, were informed that the USOC was in discussions with another company about a series of categories that J&amp;J thought it had agreed to.  It appears unlikely that J&amp;J will sign a deal with the USOC in other health care categories, which was something it did last year with USA Gymnastics even though the organization had a P&amp;G relationship. Despite being in Vancouver, Rankin and Mingey did not attend any of the summit, people in attendance said.  Seibel declined to comment about the specifics of any conversations with J&amp;J but said, Johnson &amp; Johnson has been an outstanding partner and we would be pleased to have the opportunity to continue working together. Through a spokesman, J&amp;J officials declined to comment.  The expected deal with P&amp;G would be the first to be completed by the USOCs new chief marketing officer, Lisa Baird, who joined the organization in mid-January. Baird worked in marketing for P&amp;G and IBM before joining the NFL as senior vice president, marketing and consumer products.  If her first deal is finalized, it would give the USOC a stamp of approval from one of the strongest companies in America at a time when its trying to drum up new sponsorships and complete renewals with Bank of America and AT&amp;T. It also would help shore up the organizations balance sheet at a time when it plans to lay off 10 to 15 percent of its 425 employees. Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!
