Pittsburgh Business Times - by Anya Litvak  Related News  As soon as the words stimulus package entered the business vernacular, there have been concerns that a one-time influx of cash may give justification to underfunding important programs going forward.  If youre in the defense space, youve got to be concerned if this spending will last, said Mark DeSantis several weeks ago. As the president of MobileFusion, which subsists on contracts with the Department of Defense for reconnaissance and surveillance technology, DeSantis is very much in that space.  He is somewhat calmer this week, having read through President Obamas proposed budget for fiscal year 2010, which promises to follow through on many projects funded in the $787 billion Recovery Act.  I think for people that are in the business of doing business with the government, theyre probably going through severe mood swings, he said. One day theyre popping champagne, the next day theyre wondering if theyre gonna survive.  This article is for Paid Print Subscribers ONLY.  If you are already a Pittsburgh Business Times subscriber please create or sign into your bizjournals.com account to link your valid print subscription and have access to the complete article.  Become a Print Subscriber  For immediate access to this article, as well as the most recent edition of Pittsburgh Business Times online, become a print subscriber.  Already have an Account  Email Address: Password:  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  4Q earnings fall 70% for FPIC  [Jacksonville]  HMAA reports $141K loss in Q4  [Honolulu]  Two indicted for Georgia Medicaid fraud  [Atlanta]  IMA Financial forms new insurance subsidiary  [Wichita]  AIG loses $61.7B, more government help coming  [South Florida]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Pittsburgh  Extra  Best sports teams  Pittsburgh Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 63,000 SF  Use Type: Sale  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by  EM Physician in Lancaster, PA  Web Development Sales Managers  Mechanical Field Service Engineer  Senior IT Development Manager - E-Learning  Director Six Sigma Operations  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Pittsburgh Business Directory  Pennsylvania Articles Pittsburgh Articles Advertising Pittsburgh Business Services Pittsburgh Career Pittsburgh Cars Pittsburgh Education Pittsburgh Financial Services Pittsburgh Health Pittsburgh Home Services Pittsburgh Insurance Pittsburgh Internet Pittsburgh Legal Pittsburgh Real Estate Pittsburgh Software Pittsburgh Telecommunications Pittsburgh Travel Pittsburgh  
