Becky Kennicker's pink slip had a silver lining.  Surrounded by pressing issues in her personal life, an offer by Thermo Fisher Scientific to take a two-week voluntary layoff didn't look like such a bad thing. 'I knew I was going to have to do it sometime and just figured now was good timing with what's going on with me,' Kennicker said. After laying off 12 workers permanently in recent weeks, company leaders asked employees to consider taking rotating voluntary layoffs until economic conditions improve.  Kennicker, of Rickardsville, Iowa, has been helping her boyfriend since his young daughter was diagnosed with cancer. Her layoff has allowed her the chance to get things done at home and help with things like fundraising efforts.  Kennicker's workplace story is a common scenario around the tri-states as businesses forge through the recession. Although some companies like John Deere have been forced to slash jobs -- the heavy equipment manufacturer cut 220 jobs last week at Dubuque Works -- others are instituting voluntary layoffs, furloughs, Do I still get unemployment?   Iowa -- Depending on income level, workers are eligible for unemployment benefits when on temporary layoff, but not for shortened work weeks. The typical worker is eligible for 26 weeks of unemployment in a year, but with new federal rules some are eligible for as much as 46 weeks. Kerry Koonce, spokeswoman for Iowa Workforce Development, said generally those laid off with a signed recall date will continue benefits.   Wisconsin -- People are eligible for unemployment if the company is instituting layoffs where there would otherwise be permanent layoffs, according to the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development. For instance, if a company that needs to lay off two people takes two volunteers, those two workers would be eligible for unemployment.   Illinois -- Voluntary or temporary layoffs do not necessarily prohibit a potential claimant from being eligible for unemployment benefits, according to the state's Department of Employment Security. In some circumstances, workers with shortened work weeks also might qualify. shortened work weeks and pay cuts -- whatever it takes to keep an operation in the black without permanently cutting positions.  For those employees who can withstand the income loss, working less in short bursts might seem appealing.  But for others, it can mean financial difficulties in an already difficult economy. And for companies struggling, such measures typically translate to ongoing expenses as employee benefits continue and unemployment wages often are utilized. 'Dubuque has a number of companies, especially in the manufacturing sector, that have instituted smart, creative ways to combat a recession that is in many ways out of their control,' said Dan McDonald, director of existing business for Greater Dubuque Development Corp. 'They're doing it for two reasons: They recognize that there's a human being behind the number. No. 2, it allows them to keep these very loyal and skilled people on payroll,' he said. But how long can companies and their workers keep such practices going while waiting for the economy to turn around?  Industries outside the manufacturing sector are cutting back as well.  At US Bank in Dubuque, exempt employees have taken a 5 percent reduction in salary, and non-exempt employees have seen their hours reduced by 5 percent. 'We worked too hard to recruit the talent we need to let it go,' said Mike Donohue, regional president for US Bank in northeast Iowa and northern Illinois.  US Bank has been impacted by declines in the payment systems and trust business. The bank slashed its dividend by 88 percent last week, although Donohue noted the company's balance sheet growth has continued at a rapid pace.  The reductions were instituted last month and have been embraced by staff, who preferred it to seeing colleagues losing jobs, said Donohue. The reductions are supposed to be in place through 2009.  For Kennicker, a volunteer layoff meant preserving her 11 years of seniority with Thermo Fisher and keeping her benefits.  Like Donohue, she said such measures play into workplace camaraderie. 'The more people that do take the voluntary layoffs, the longer it will deter any future layoffs,' Kennicker said. That said, the short time period played a big factor in her decision, since she needs the full paychecks coming in. 'If it were long-term, I think people would be a lot more leery of it,' she said. 'There's nothing threatening about it. You get to go back and carry on the way it was.' Sally Schneider, also a Thermo Fisher employee, signed up for two weeks and returned to work last week. Like Kennicker, she spent her time off helping family members with medical issues. 'I don't want to see anybody else permanently laid off,' she said. 'You have to do that on behalf of your other employees, especially since these times are really bad.' 
