A Dallas investment management firm is set to establish a Houston presence with a new office in the Central Business District.  Carlson Capital LP, which runs several large hedge funds and specializes in alternative asset management, is building out nearly 9,000 square feet of leased space the entire 50th floor of the Bank of America Center at 700 Louisiana. The build-out is expected to be completed during the second quarter.  The new office will be run by Ron Hulme, who was hired in November as Carlsons CEO and will lead the firms energy practice in Houston and Dallas.  Clint Carlson, the firms president and chief investment officer, says the move to add Hulme to the roster was made to beef up the firms energy practice. We run a fundamentally oriented investment strategy with a significant oil and gas portfolio, so having people on the ground (in Houston) is important for research and to follow opportunities in the energy markets, Carlson says. We see more opportunities in equity and debt markets and private investments now that (energy) prices are down rather than up. The 16-year-old Carlson Capital has $4 billion in assets under management, with its largest hedge fund, Double Black Diamond, carrying $2.6 billion of that total.  Hulme says Carlson has about $1 billion of its total assets invested in the energy space, and he hopes to expand into more direct investment rather than strictly focus on public equities or credit deals. He says some energy firms with in the money oil and gas developments are having difficulty finding financing, and Carlson hopes to bridge that gap. We think we can do quite a bit in taking minority stakes in some public enterprises, and bring added value to those companies beyond passive investment, Hulme says. Hulme was employed for 26 years with McKinsey &amp; Co. before taking the job with Carlson.  Eddie Allen, senior partner with Eagle Global Advisors LLC, says the timing is good for Carlson to make a move into Houston. Carlson is well-known in the hedge fund space as a long-term dependable manager, Allen says. Its a smart move to come in when energy prices are down temporarily. And theres lots of available talent to be had, now that the energy desks of some of the bigger Wall Street firms have been downsizing. Carlson currently has 126 employees in four offices worldwide, including about 75 at its Dallas headquarters. The Houston office is expected to open with four employees and to add two more within the first year of operation.  John Spafford of PM Realty Group represented the building owner, a joint venture between real estate investment firm M-M Properties and an affiliate of the General Electric Pension Trust, in the transaction. Craig Wilson and Randy Cooper with Cushman &amp; Wakefield of Texas Inc. in Dallas, and Angus Hughes and Philip Price in Houston, represented Carlson Capital. Carlson Capital is a perfect fit for Bank of America Center and its 50th floor. The smaller floors near the top of the building give tenants the prestige of a full-floor presence, says Bill McFarland, vice president with M-M Properties.
