In a sign of just how pervasive job losses have become, the Labor Department said unemployment rose earlier this year in all but one of the 372 metropolitan areas it tracks.  That means jobless rates rose in January in 99.7 percent of the cities compared with a year ago. Areas of California were among the hardest hit. By comparison, in January 2008, unemployment increased in only 234 metro areas, or 63 percent.  The only metro area that didn't see an increase was Waterloo-Cedar Falls, Iowa, where the unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.4 percent. All 49 metro areas with more than 1 million people saw their rates rise in the past year.  The Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach metropolitan area had a January unemployment rate of 7.6 percent, up from 4.6 percent a year earlier, the latest statistics from earlier this month show.  Most economists expect job losses to mount this year, even with the Obama administration's $787 billion stimulus package and other government efforts. The nationwide unemployment rate, which stood at 8.1 percent in February, could reach 10 percent by the end of this year.  Initial jobless claims fell slightly last week to 646,000, the Labor Department said, but topped 600,000 for the seventh consecutive week. The number of people continuing to receive benefits reached a new record of 5.47 million people, nearly double the 2.85 million a year ago.  Fourteen areas had unemployment rates above 15 percent in January, the department said. Ten of those areas are located in California, including El Centro, which has the nation's highest jobless rate of 24.2 percent, the department said. The jobless rate is notoriously high in El Centro, where many unemployed are seasonal agriculture workers, including some who live in Mexico.  Among the 49 largest cities, the highest unemployment rates were in the Detroit area, at 13 percent, and Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif., at 11.8 percent. Detroit has been battered by plummeting auto sales, while the Riverside-San Bernardino area has suffered a major housing bust.  Financial center Charlotte, N.C., home to Bank of America and Wachovia, saw the biggest jump among large cities, with its unemployment rate nearly doubling to 10.5 percent from 5.3 percent. It was closely followed by Riverside-San Bernardino, which jumped 5.1 percentage points, to 11.8 percent.  Among smaller areas known as metropolitan divisions, Broward County tied with Edison-New Brunswick, N.J., for the nation's fourth-largest percentage loss of jobs over 12 months ended in January, with a 4 percent drop.  The top three were Warren-Troy-Farmington Hills, Mich. (-8.1 percent), Detroit-Livonia-Dearborn, Mich. (-6.5 percent), and Santa Ana-Anaheim-Irvine, Calif. (-4.3 percent).  More job cuts were announced Thursday, these by FedEx Corp.
