Posted to: News Portsmouth  The Virginian-Pilot  The management of two large Churchland-area apartment complexes has not paid utility bills recently and appears to have abandoned them - prompting a court to appoint a receiver for the properties.  The complexes are the 196-unit Chelsea Point, formerly called The Villas, in Portsmouth, and the 208-unit Vacaro Apartments, formerly known as the Woodhaven Apartments, in Chesapeake.  Employees were not being paid and Portsmouth had threatened to cut off water to one complex because of unpaid utilities, the petition said. It was filed in Portsmouth Circuit Court by attorneys for the U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee for the lenders. The petition sought to protect assets 'pending the foreclosure sale or other disposition' of the properties.  Owners S.E. Portfolio Apartments LLC, which is based in Irvine, Calif.; and GTS Property Portfolios B-2 LLC, which has a Midlothian registered office, got a loan on the properties in 2007, the document said. The complexes are among 11 in three states that are security on a nearly $131 million note, it said.  It said Bethany Management Group LLC, a related entity, was believed to have 'effectively abandoned management' of the sites.  Tracey Thomas, who pays $829 a month for a two-bedroom unit at Chelsea Point, said she has lived there for a year and that maintenance became worse. Last weekend, she said, the plumbing backed up in her building and flooded the hallway and laundry room.  Thomas could not understand why the staff couldn't get a plumber there. Then an employee told her he had not been paid for weeks, she said. On Tuesday, she said, letters from new management said they would be doing an inspection.  In Portsmouth, with Tuesday's court order, management was temporarily turned over to McKinley Inc. of Ann Arbor, Mich. That same day, McKinley officials toured the complexes for the first time.  They declined to comment other than to say residents will likely see an improvement in maintenance.  Pilot writer Mike Saewitz contributed to this story.  Janie Bryant, (757) 446-2453, janie.bryant@pilotonline.com  
