AA Enlarge Text  AA Reduce Text  S.D. bank acquires Colo.s First Community   2009 Longmont Times-Call  LONGMONT  South Dakota-based Great Western Bank is buying First Community Banks 20 Colorado branches, including the three in Longmont, for about $28 million.  The deal is subject to regulatory approval but should be completed by summer, the companies say.  First Community has 10 branches in Boulder County and three locally: 600 Kimbark St.; 2100 Main St.; and 25 E. Ken Pratt Blvd. in Harvest Junction.  Great Western will acquire about $444 million in loans and $477 million in deposits from First Community. Not included in the buyout is about $210 million in real estate construction loans and certain other loans, which will be retained by First Community.  A First Community spokesman said Wednesday the transition should be a smooth one for its customers.  Theyre a big bank. Theyre a strong bank, Patrick Dee, chief operating officer for First Community, said of Great Western. I think (customers) will be very happy in the long run with the service they receive from the Great Western organization.  First Community, a subsidiary of New Mexico-based First State Bancorporation, was known as First Community Industrial Bank until First State Bancorp acquired it in 2002.  The parent company later expanded its presence in Longmont and along the Front Range when it bought out the parent company of Heritage Bank in 2006, acquiring several branches from Fort Collins to Colorado Springs. It added two branches in Longmont at that time.  Based in Sioux Falls, S.D., Great Western Bank is a subsidiary of National Australia Bank.  This expansion ... establishes our presence along the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado, Great Western president and CEO Jeff Erickson said in a statement.  Once Wednesdays acquisition is complete, Great Western will have assets of about $4.8 billion, with 124 locations in 77 communities in seven Midwestern and Western states, including Colorado.  
