CRANFORD, NJ - Weeks Marine Inc., a locally-based marine dredging company, is one of the largest contractors of its kind in the country.  But company members say few people knew much about them until recently, when they undertook one of their more unusual jobs  lifting Airbus A320 from the Hudson River, where it crashed Jan. 15.  It took about 11 people two weeks to move the aircraft at least three miles on a barge, from Manhattan to Jersey City. The plane lost power soon after taking off from LaGuardia Airport and made an emergency landing in the river. Of the 155 passengers on board, some were treated for minor injuries and hypothermia, but no fatalities were reported.  The companys proposal to move the plane to Greenville Yard   where it maintains equipment   in one piece won it the contract from AIG Insurance, according to Jason Marchioni, a manager in the companys heavy lifting division.  The amount of the contract was not disclosed. Because of the equipment we possess and our facilities, we were the only company in the N.Y. area that could provide the services needed, Marchioni said. Other contractors had proposed disassembling the aircraft before relocating it.  While the 75-year-old, family-owned company had never extracted a plane from water, Marchioni said it had experience retrieving sunken ships, a similar task. We do quite a bit of salvage work, he said, noting the company typically salvages five or six beached, disabled, capsized or sunken vessels each year.  While the move went well, Weeks Marines divers struggled to pass slings underneath the aircraft and assist in rigging a cable used to lift the aircraft out of the water. The weather made it difficult, Marchioni said.  The company, run by Richard S. Weeks and his four sons, employs a small fleet of tugboats, barges and floating cranes used for a variety of marine-related labors.  Initially, the plane was held above the surface of the water by cables, but eventually sunk in 40 feet of water, its right wing becoming lodged in sediment below the piers framework.  To extricate the jet whole, Weeks workers used a 500-ton crane  one of the largest used on the east coast  typically put to use several times a week.  The company was aided by New York City police and fire authorities and its project partner, J. Supor &amp; Sons Inc., a Harrison-based trucking and rigging firm that handled transportation.  Marchioni praised the planes pilot, Chesley Sullenberger III, and crew, saying the positive outcome of the emergency landing was likely the result of attention given to both the crash and the retrieval.  Weeks Marine has offices in Virginia and Philadelphia.  Paul Greulich can be reached at 908-686-7700 ext. 121, or at editorial@thelocalsource.com.  
