  NEW YORK (AFP) A New York art dealer was arrested in an alleged 88-million-dollar scam that defrauded former tennis champion John McEnroe and other high-end collectors using art he often did not own.  Laurence Salander, 59, was arrested and charged with more than 100 counts of grand larceny, securities fraud, forgery and falsifying business records, said Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau.  In all, the high-flying former owner of the Salander-O'Reilly Galleries allegedly defrauded 26 people over a 13-year period until he filed for bankruptcy in November 2007. 'Salander stole from his victims in two primary ways: he sold artwork not owned by him and kept the money; and lured investment money in fraudulent investment opportunities,' Morgenthau said in a statement.  Salander also allegedly applied for a two-million-dollar personal loan from Bank of America using other people's artwork as collateral. 'In fact, several pieces ... were owned by other individuals, including John McEnroe,' Morgenthau said. Prosecutors said he used the ill-gotten wealth to finance a personal mission to corner the market in Renaissance art and to pay for an extravagant lifestyle that included a Manhattan townhouse, a 66-acre country estate and private jet travel to Europe.  McEnroe lost two million dollars that he invested in a share of two works by the artist Arshile Gorky, prosecutors said. The tennis legend famed for his skill and fiery temper has mellowed in middle age as a noted television commentator, pitchman in TV ads and serious art collector.  Other victims included Renaissance Art Investors, which paid Salander 42 million dollars for 328 works of Renaissance art, and the heirs of painter Stuart Davis, who lost 6.7 million dollars.  In some cases, investors allegedly paid cash in return for shares in works of art that Salander did not own. In other cases, Salander sold art on consignment from the heirs of famous American painters at less than authorized prices.  Salander faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted of grand larceny.
