OKEMOS, Mich., March 11 /PRNewswire/ -- To help companies that are reducing or eliminating benefits for their retired workers, Renaissance Life &amp; Health Insurance Company of America (Renaissance America) introduces a unique individual dental insurance plan.  Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees is the only dental insurance plan available nationwide that enables employers to make an individual dental insurance policy available for their retirees with no cost, group contract, or administration for their organization.'Maintaining good oral health is increasingly important as people age, and today dental insurance is more important than ever for individuals to stay healthy and save money on health care costs,' said Tom Dimmer, director of National Individual Sales for Renaissance America. 'Until now, few dental insurance options existed except for traditional group coverage, but Renaissance Dental has changed that.' Because Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees is designed to be available through employers, and as rates were developed with that in mind, the plan provides more affordable options for retirees than plans typically available for individuals. It is intended to serve as a value-added insurance or to provide coverage not available under a Medicare Advantage plan.Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees is available in all 50 states and offers participants full coverage on a self-paid basis. The plan includes a nationwide PPO network that reduces out-of-pocket costs but provides the flexibility to visit any licensed dentist.  Another special feature of the Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees plan is the Renaissance Value Card*, which is provided at no charge with every policy. This is a discount card offering savings on vision care, prescription medications and hearing care through relationships with EyeMed, Caremark and Beltone, respectively.   According to Dimmer, taking a holistic approach to health is critical--not only is dental health important in its own right, but poor or neglected dental health has been associated with medical issues such as heart disease, stroke and diabetes--diseases that often strike after retirement. 'Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees was developed as an option that organizations can easily and quickly make available to help their former employees maintain their dental health.' Dimmer said. 'By filling a void in the market for this type of product, Renaissance can help millions of retirees get the dental care they need at a price they can afford.'For information on Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees, call 1-800-963-4596 or visit www.renaissancedental.com.   About Renaissance Renaissance Life &amp; Health Insurance Company of America (Renaissance America), the nationwide insurance company of Renaissance Health Service Corporation (RHSC), offers Renaissance Dental group and individual dental benefits, including the new Renaissance Dental Extend for Retirees, an individually-billed product now available nationwide through employers and other organizations. RHSC is a not-for-profit organization comprised of companies that focus on affordable health care benefits, employee benefit and claim management services, and access cards to reduce health care costs for groups and individuals. The Renaissance family of companies dates back to 1957 and today has offices in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, Illinois, New York, and Florida. Collectively, Renaissance provides coverage for more than 7.6 million people with annual revenues of nearly $2 billion. www.RenaissanceFamily.com or www.RenaissanceDental.com.   *The Renaissance Value Card is NOT insurance.  SOURCE Renaissance Life &amp; Health Insurance Company of America 
