Veteran Securities Litigator Brings Additional Depth and Experience to Firm's Securities and Financial Services Litigation Practice  SAN FRANCISCO, March 5 /PRNewswire/ -- Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk &amp; Rabkin announced today that veteran securities litigator Tower C. Snow, Jr. has joined the firm as a Director (Partner). In addition to significant experience representing Fortune 500 companies in high-stakes class actions and derivative cases, Tower has represented companies, boards and individuals in a broad range of internal investigations and other regulatory proceedings. 'Tower has an extraordinary combination of securities litigation expertise, in-depth understanding of the business environment, a seasoned and practical approach to complex problems, and sophisticated and nuanced judgment,' said recently elected Chairman and Managing Director Doug Winthrop. 'Tower had a number of options as he was considering returning to full-time practice, so we feel very fortunate to have attracted such an exceptionally talented lawyer. We're looking forward to having Tower further strengthen and expand our nationally recognized securities and financial services litigation practice.'Gilbert Serota, a senior Securities Litigation Director at Howard Rice, said, 'I'm very excited to have Tower as a partner again. We worked together for 11 years and we've been friends for over 30 years. He has remarkable substantive expertise in securities and corporate governance law, and he's a terrific teacher and mentor. Tower's experience defending companies and individuals in high-profile securities matters is unequaled in California.'Over the course of his career, Tower C. Snow, Jr. has been lead or co-lead defense counsel in more than 200 securities class actions, and has led the defense in many high-profile derivative cases, internal investigations and regulatory proceedings. His clients have included Adobe Systems, Apple Computer, Bank of America, Cisco Systems, The Gap, Pacific Gas &amp; Electric, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., Montgomery Securities, Robertson Stephenson Co., Sevin Rosen Funds, Sun Microsystems, 3Com and Wells Fargo. Tower has testified before both United States Congressional and California Senate Committees on a variety of securities issues. 'Howard Rice offers me a unique platform from which to practice law. Its roster of clients looks like that of a 1,000-lawyer firm, rather than a 100+ lawyer firm. Because of its sheer intellectual firepower - a majority of its lawyers have clerked including three with the U.S. Supreme Court-Howard Rice has a national reputation for doing highly sophisticated work for some of the country's most recognized companies,' said Tower. 'In this economy, clients are under enormous pressure to contain outside legal costs. A firm like Howard Rice, with one office and outstanding lawyers, can provide clients with superior legal services far more cost effectively. Best of all, its culture is legendary. For decades, Howard Rice has been known as an extraordinary place to practice law.'Prior to joining Howard Rice, Tower was a partner and member of the Americas Management Group at Clifford Chance US LLP. He also served as the Chairman of Brobeck, Phleger &amp; Harrison LLP and was a partner at Shearman &amp; Sterling and Orrick Herrington &amp; Sutcliffe LLP, where he was the Chairman of the Litigation Department. Tower graduated with an A.B. from Dartmouth College, and earned his J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. He is a frequent speaker and has authored more than 250 articles on trends and issues in securities litigation.  About Howard Rice's Securities and Financial Services Litigation Practice  Howard Rice has one of the leading securities and financial services litigation practices in the country. Our attorneys regularly represent public companies, special committees and audit committees of boards of directors, directors and officers, underwriters, broker-dealers, hedge funds, mutual funds, venture capital firms and private equity firms in securities class actions, derivative litigation, SEC proceedings, customer and employee arbitrations, internal investigations, and other regulatory actions and enforcement proceedings.  About Howard Rice  Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk &amp; Rabkin, a Professional Corporation, is a San Francisco law firm with leading national and international practices, representing entities and individuals across a comprehensive range of practice areas. Our clients are among the most sophisticated consumers of legal services and include: Amazon Digital Services, Inc.; The Charles Schwab Corporation; Citigroup; First Republic Bank; Genentech, Inc.; Google, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Co.; Hitachi America, Ltd.; Morgan Stanley; The Oakland Raiders; PMI Mortgage Insurance Co.; Prudential Equity Group; The Regents of the University of California; Research in Motion Limited (RIM); Sony Online Entertainment; Thomas Weisel Partners; UBS; the United States Olympic Committee; and Wells Fargo &amp; Company. For more information, please visit www.howardrice.com.  SOURCE Howard Rice Nemerovski Canady Falk &amp; Rabkin 
