COBURG  Monaco Coach Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Thursday but said it intends to continue operating so it can sell off all or part of the business.  The filing comes three days after Monaco terminated 2,000 of its 2,145 employees and caps a tumultuous year in which the RV makers fortunes have steadily faded in the face of the global economic crisis.  And in a cruel coincidence, the Monaco filing came on the same day that a federal judge ordered Country Coach, a Junction City RV maker, into Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.  Chapter 11 bankruptcy is intended to give financially ailing companies breathing room from creditors and time to reorganize.  Monaco listed assets of $442.1 million and debts of $208.8 million as of Sept. 27, the end of the third quarter. But even since it obtained new financing in November, the economic climate has deteriorated considerably and national and global credit markets have tightened, the company said.  The decision to restructure the business through a Chapter 11 filing should provide us with the opportunity to strengthen our balance sheet, create a more efficient expense structure and move expeditiously toward a sale of parts or all of the company, CEO Kay Toolson said in a written statement. In the meantime, we are committed to maintaining our dealer and customer relationships which should benefit all parties in the long run.  Though its headquarters are in Coburg, Monaco filed for bankruptcy in Delaware, the state where it filed incorporation papers. The company estimated that it has between 25,000 and 50,000 creditors.  Its largest unsecured creditors are Custom Chassis Products of Elkhart, Ind., which is owed $6.8 million, and Quality Enterprises USA, a utility installation contractor in Naples, Fla., which is owed $2.68 million.  Local unsecured creditors include API Inc., a distributor of automotive paint and industrial supplies in Eugene, which is owed $594,476; Industrial Finishes Inc., a Eugene supplier of paint and other finishes, which is owed $427,984; and Guaranty RV, a Junction City RV dealer, which is owed $334,028.  The company also has more than 200 local shareholders, large and small, according to its bankruptcy filing. When a company reorganizes under a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, the shareholders are paid only after all other debts have been paid, and only if there is money left.  Monaco said it intends to continue operating so it can put together one or more sales transactions involving part or all of the company.  Imperial Capital LLC, the companys main investment bank, is helping Monaco find a buyer so it can resume operations.  Monaco said it was negotiating with its lenders to obtain debtor-in-possession financing, a special kind of financing arranged by a company while in Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Such financing usually has priority over existing debt, shareholders equity and other claims. In the meantime, Monaco said it expects to continue a line of credit on a cash collateral basis.  The Monaco factory in Coburg and its service center in Harrisburg have been idle since mid-December. What was to have been a holiday furlough was extended three times before the company announced Monday that it was terminating most of its employees.  A year ago, Monaco stock was trading for $10 a share on the New York Stock Exchange. But the stock, and the companys fortunes, steadily faltered the rest of the year, battered first by record-high gas prices, and then the financial crisis on Wall Street, which led to tight credit and woeful consumer confidence.  Monaco closed three Indiana factories last summer, suspended its dividend, cut its production in half and laid off about 2,100 employees in a series of job cuts.  But those moves didnt stanch the red ink. Monaco posted a loss of $8.5 million in the first quarter of 2008, $9.7 million in the second quarter and $78 million in the third quarter. It hasnt filed an earnings report for the fourth quarter.  In November, Monaco said it had obtained a 3-year, $39.3 million loan from Ableco, and an $80 million revolving capital loan fund from several lenders and Bank of America. But two months later, Monaco said it was at risk of default after it violated some terms of the financing.  In early January, Monaco announced it had hired an investment banker to help it explore strategic alternatives, including joint ventures or mergers, in an effort to improve its liquidity and maintain a strong balance sheet, after an Oklahoma hedge fund bought up 15 percent of the company stock.  On Tuesday, after Monacos stock plunged to 6 cents per share on news of the mass layoffs, the New York Stock Exchange delisted the companys stock. The companys stock is now being sold on over-the-counter markets.  In his statement, Toolson thanked dealers and customers for their support, and expressed hope that the company could bounce back.  With this support, we believe the opportunity exists to leverage our market position, preserve the strength of our brands for our dealers and assure the continuation of the Monaco lifestyle for our customers, he said.  We understand how difficult the events of the past several months have been on everyone at the company, and we recognize the changes personally affect many people. Further, we understand and deeply regret the effect of the action taken today on vendors and others with whom we have business relationships, Toolson concluded.  Monaco, founded in 1968 in Junction City as Caribou Manufacturing Co., builds motor homes and trailers under the brand names Monaco, Beaver, Safari, Holiday Rambler, McKenzie and R-Vision. It also operates motor home resorts in California, Florida, Nevada and Michigan.  Monacos 10 Largest Unsecured Creditors  1. Custom Chassis Products, Elkhart, Ind., $6.84 million  2. Quality Enterprises USA, Naples, Fla., $2.68 million  3. Lazydays RV Center, Seffner, Fla., $1.11 million  4. Onan Corp., Fridley, Minn., $1.05 million  5. Hardwoods Specialty Products, Renton, Wash., $815,330  6. Acunto Landscape &amp; Design, Marco Island, Fla., $697,395  7. Patrick Industries Inc., Elkhart, Ind., $691,500  8. Villa International, Cerritos, Calif., $691,174  9. Horizon Transport Inc., Wakarusa, Ind., $684,037  10. Carefree of Colorado, Broomfield, Colo., $619,540  
