A new major shopping center for the Lewisville area, to be known as Lewisville Towne Crossing, began to take serious shape this week with the opening of two large retail stores.  Zane Miller, general manager of the Denton County Fresh Water Supply District that oversees Castle Hills, said Best Buy and Target stores are now open in the new shopping center, located at the intersection of Highway 121 and Josey Lane.  Eddie Rodriquez, store team leader for what is being called the Lewisville/The Colony SuperTarget, said ribbon cutting ceremonies took place Tuesday night for a soft opening, with the official opening scheduled for 8 a.m. Sunday.  The new Target for this area is one of 27 Target stores being opened at the same time nationwide, including two in Hawaii. A similar store is also being opened in Allen.  Target already has stores operating on Hebron Parkway, near I-35 in Lewisville, on FM 2499 near FM 407 in Flower Mound and on Josey Lane near Trinity Mills in Carrollton.  Brad Ficke, sales operator for the new Best Buy, being called The Colony Best Buy, opened for business on Feb. 26, with ribbon cutting ceremonies sponsored by The Colony Chamber of Commerce.  Best Buy also has a location in Lewisville, on Interstate 35E just south of Hebron Parkway.  Miller said the new shopping center, located on the edge of Castle Hills, is on a 50- acre site of a 2,500-acre Castle Hills development.  Castle Hills is the location of 1,800 high-end homes already occupied, with another 550 soon to be built near the new shopping center, near Standridge and Highway 121.  In addition to the Target and Best Buy stores, a 24-Hour Fitness and a Bank of America are now under construction at Lewisville Towne Crossing, with plans for other retail stores expected to be announced in the near future.  Castle Hills already has a Village Center, a shopping center with eight small retail shops, with two more now under construction.  The Castle Hills community, which borders Lewisville to the northeast and Carrollton to the south, is in the Lewisville extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) and is expected to be incorporated into the city of Lewisville sometime within the next few years.  
