Brick man, 40, has previous convictions; $1 million bail set  TOMS RIVER  A man who was released from prison in August was back behind bars Friday, charged with bank robbery  and he'll need $1 million to get out.  Authorities have said they believe that Peter A. Bielecke, 40, of Brick, is a serial bank robber responsible for holdups in Brick, Lakewood, Toms River, Howell and Old Bridge.  Bielecke was arrested in Brick on Thursday after he got out of a car that matched the description of the car used in the recent bank robberies, police said.  His appearance in Superior Court Friday, though, was on a charge of robbing the Provident Bank at 1930 Route 88 in the Laurel Square Shopping Center in Brick on Jan. 29.  In court, Judge Barbara Ann Villano explained why he would have to post $1 million cash bail on a second-degree bank robbery charge.  Villano said that when she was contacted by police after his arrest on Thursday, she was told Bielecke had two felony convictions and also is strongly believed to be connected to several other bank robberies.  When Villano noted that the suspect had been convicted of kidnapping, Bielecke, who had kept his head hung low during most of the proceeding, corrected her, saying that he had been convicted of attempted kidnapping.  He was sentenced in January 2004 to a seven-year term for that attempted kidnapping and for stalking an exotic dancer in Eatontown, and was released from prison in August.  Bielecke's arrest Thursday was the result of a multi-jurisdictional investigation, police said.  He was arrested by Brick police in front of the ShopRite supermarket at Route 70 and Chambers Bridge Road Thursday evening.  'Brick police detectives developed information about a possible suspect vehicle used in recent bank robberies,' said Capt. John Rein in a prepared statement. 'That information was relayed to area police departments.'  Wall Police Officer Doug Borst saw a vehicle matching the description of that car about 5 p.m. Thursday. Borst followed the vehicle into Brick, losing sight of it in heavy traffic on Chambers Bridge Road. Brick Patrolman Jason Matthews subsequently found the vehicle unoccupied in the area of Cedarwood Drive.  Police waited for Bielecke to return to the car, then followed him as he drove to the ShopRite parking lot, where he was arrested.  Police said they recovered evidence and proceeds from a bank robbery Thursday in Old Bridge.  Police surveillance at banks has been heavy in recent weeks because of a rash of bank robberies. That surveillance led Brick police to develop the information on the suspect's vehicle, Rein said.  Police and other agencies, including the FBI, U.S. Attorney's Office and the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office, worked on the investigation.  Police have yet to chargeanyone with the robberies Jan. 22 at the TD Bank branch on Cedar Bridge Avenue, Brick; Feb. 5 at the Investors Savings Bank branch at 273 Brick Blvd., Brick, and the Feb. 12 heist at the Sovereign Bank branch at 1400 Hooper Ave., Toms River. The Old Bridge robbery was at the Synergy Bank on Route 9 north.  
