CRANFORD--A settlement was reached this week between the township and the owner of Cranford Crossing Redevelopment project, Morgan Properties, as the Township Committee considered an amendment to the redevelopment agreement to allow medical and professional uses at the site.  During the Tuesday, March 10 meeting, the Township Committee approved a resolution that settled the lawsuit over a canceled tax abatement deal for the site by a four-to-one vote after Commissioner Mark Dugan recused himself from the vote because of professional reasons.  In July 2007, Cranford Building Associates (CBA), the developer and original owner of the site and a subsidiary of Kushner Companies, moved to sell the project to East Coast Cranford Crossing, a subsidiary of Morgan Properties.  Conditional approval of the sale was granted by the Township Committee in September 2007, which was empowered by its redevelopment agreement with CBA to review any transfer of the project, but was pulled in December 2007 when a dispute arose regarding CBA's obligations at the site under the Redevelopment Agreement.  In July 2008, as legal action in the disagreement with CBA moved forward, the Township Committee terminated the payment in lieu of taxes (pilot) tax abatement, under which the site's property tax obligations were to be phased in incrementally over five years.  While Morgan paid the $261,154 property tax bill in August 2008, they filed a lawsuit soon after seeking to have the tax abatement for the site reinstated.  Under the recent settlement, the township will approve the transfer of the project to Morgan, the pilot agreement will be reinstated and the township will refund $100,000 in taxes that have already been paid.  Additionally, Morgan will be credited for the 2009 and 2010 tax agreement payments and the 2008, 2009, and 2010 Special Improvement District (SID) assessments from taxes that have already been paid. In 2010, the township will refund the difference between the taxes paid by Morgan in 2008 and the credited payments.  This week, Mayor David Robinson said that the agreement between the property owner and the township was reached because of the willingness of both parties to cooperate.  'They're willing to work with us and we're willing to work with them,' Robinson said. 'It's great to have a partner in that project instead of an adversary. We are all committed to making (it) a success.'  According to Township Attorney Carl Woodward, the settlement with Morgan does not have any effect on the outstanding litigation between the township and CBA.  'That's still on going,' Woodward said.  As the committee worked to approve the settlement for the project, they also agreed to a change in the redevelopment agreement for Cranford Crossing in an attempt to bring in new tenants.  Currently, of the total 21,150 square feet available, only three locations are occupied at the site, with nearly 9,000 square feet in the west building and almost 7,000 square feet in the east building sitting vacant.  In a March 2 letter to Township Administrator Marlena Schmid, a representative of Morgan Properties wrote that two prospective tenants, a dental office and medical office, had separately contacted leasing agent Jeffery Realty regarding space at Cranford Crossing.  The letter goes on to state that the potential renters are looking for 'first floor office spaces ranging from 1,200 square feet to 5,800 square feet in size.'  Under the current terms of the redevelopment agreement for Cranford Crossing, medical and other office uses are not allowed. Schmid said she would recommend that the township contract with a planner, at the property owner's expense, to draft an amendment to the agreement.  The commissioners agreed that the change would increase commercial use at the site, but that provisions would need to be made to keep retail uses at the site as well. The committee also specifically asked that provisos be included in the agreement to limit the percentage of square footage that professional uses can occupy and reserves space that fronts on South Avenue for retail uses.  'The only concern is that we don't want it to be a blanket, open-ended (allowance) of professional space,' Robinson said.  An amendment to the redevelopment plan for Cranford Crossing could be considered by the committee as soon as March 23.  Leslie Murray is a staff writer for The Chronicle. She can be reached at (908)464-5214 or lmurray@njnpublishing.com.  
