Xinhua News Agency  Mar 06, 2009 (Xinhua via COMTEX News Network) -- The following are China news stories moved by Xinhua News Agency as of 16:00 GMT, March 6.  TOP STORIES:  1st Ld: 10 miners rescued from colliery after explosions in China, two still trapped  WU'AN, Hebei, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Ten miners trapped underground after explosions ripped through a coal mine in north China's Hebei Province early on Friday have been rescued, but two others are still trapped.  * China focus: March Lhasa riots won't repeat: Tibet official  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- A senior Tibet official said here Friday that the violent riots, which resulted in the death of at least 18 civilians in Lhasa last March, won't repeat.  * Reason still unclear for Tibetan monk to set self alight in China  ABA, Sichuan, March 6 (Xinhua) -- It is still unclear why a Tibetan monk set himself alight last week in southwest China's Sichuan Province, a local official said Friday.  SEE ALSO:  -- Lhasa stable, recovering from riot, says mayor  -- Setting of Serfs Emancipation Day major move to fight Dalai clique: senior Tibetan legislator  -- China Exclusive: Historical site to be restored as witness of China's sovereignty over Tibet  * China reaffirms its sovereignty over Nansha Islands  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Friday reiterated that China has indisputable sovereignty over the Nansha Islands and adjacent waters after Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Haji Ahmad Badawi on Thursday claimed Malaysia's sovereignty over these areas.  * Eleven boys rescued from traffickers in southwest China: police  CHENGDU, March 6 (Xinhua) -- All seven members of a child trafficking gang have been detained and 11 boys aged 3 to 9 have been rescued, local police said here Thursday.  * 4th Ld-Writethru: Three people in Beijing self-immolation bid have 'unreasonable demands': official  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- The three people from Xinjiang who set fire to themselves in downtown Beijing last month took the extreme action after their 'unreasonable demands' were not met, a senior official said here Friday.  * China denies gov't involvement in Yuanmingyuan relics bidding  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Head of China's cultural heritage bureau on Friday denied government involvement in the bidding of two looted Chinese relics at Christie's auction in Paris, saying the bidder was acting privately.  * China to have world's fastest train by 2012: researcher  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Trains on the Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railroad under construction will run at 350 km per hour, the fastest in the world, said Li Heping, a researcher at the China Academy of Railway Sciences on Friday.  * China puts more algae-eating fish into polluted lake  HANGZHOU, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Tens of millions of algae-eating fish, voluntarily donated by residents in the nearby four cities, have been released over the past two days into Taihu, China's third largest freshwater lake, to curb algae growth.  BUSINESS &amp; FINANCE:  * 2nd Ld-Writethru-China Focus: Coca-Cola to invest more than 2 bln U.S. dollars in China over next three years  SHANGHAI, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Coca-Cola Co., the world's largest soft drinks maker, said Friday it will invest more than 2 billion U.S. dollars over the next three years in China, as the company saw 'the fastest growth' here across the world even amid the current global economic downturn.  * Yuan-based settlements for some China trade likely by March: central bank  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Four commercial banks could begin offering yuan-denominated settlement of some of China's international trade deals as soon as March, the central bank said Friday.  * 3rd LD: China has multiple plans in case of worse financial crisis impact, says central bank governor  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- China has multiple plans to prepare itself for further negative impact of the global financial crisis, said Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of China's central bank, Friday.  * China names first jumbo jet C919, to take off in 8 years  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua)-- China has named its first home-made jumbo jet C919, which will take off in around eight years, its chief designer Wu Guanghui said on Friday.  * 2nd Ld-Writethru: Bid for AIG operations out of the question, Bank of China says  BEIJING, March 6 (Xinhua) -- The Bank of China (BOC) said Friday it would not bid for the Asian insurance unit of American International Group Inc. (AIG), since doing so would not conform to the bank's strategy.  FEATURES:  * China Exclusive: Pearl River Delta cracks down on fugitive bosses  GUANGZHOU, March 6 (Xinhua) -- Pearl River delta cities in south China's Guangdong Province are seeking ways to fight bosses who run away while defaulting workers wages amid global financial crisis.  -------------------------------------------------------  YOUR QUERIES:  Duty editor: Ni Siyi @ +086 10 6307 3665  ------------------------------------------------------  (c) 2009 XINHUA NEWS AGENCY  
