The Kane Borough Sewer Authority has incurred more than $600,000 in legal and other professional fees associated with a 10-year-old lawsuit settled in November. By Ted Lutz  Republican Staff  The Kane Borough Sewer Authority has incurred more than $600,000 in legal and other professional fees associated with a 10-year-old lawsuit settled in November.  The authority in 1998 initiated a lawsuit against engineers and equipment suppliers for alleged faulty work in the re-construction of Kanes two sewage treatment plants.  Due to its terrain, Kane has two sewage treatment plantsone on Pine Street and the Kinzua Road facility off Route 321 just north of Kane. Both plants are in Wetmore Township.  Construction on the plants was completed in 1996.  A settlement reached in November during a marathon mediation session in Pittsburgh calls for the authority to receive $1 million.  This money, which has yet to be received, will reimburse the authority for legal and professional fees totaling $605,010.  The Kane Republican inspected some of the lawsuit bills, which are public information.  The authoritys expenses in the litigation include bills totaling $405,796 from the Pittsburgh law firm of ReedSmith.  One of the last bills from the firm is for lead attorney James Doerfler. The bill of $17,061.66 shows that Doerfler in November worked 41.8 hours on the case at the rate of $400 per hour.  The bill lists the days and hours worked by the attorney. The bill also gives a brief description of the legal work by Doerfler.  He charged the authority $4,800 for attending the mediation session for 12 hours on Nov. 19. He charged the authority $3,240 for working 8.1 hours to draft a statement for the mediation session. He charged the authority $1,640 for sending an e-mail to authority Solicitor Erik Ross, who is associated with the Kane law firm of Woods, Baker and Ross. That bill also includes time spent by Doerfler in reviewing mediation documents.  ReedSmith has submitted several other hefty bills for legal services for the authority during the course of the 10-year-old lawsuit.  Public documents show that the law firm issued legal bills of $40,117 for July 2007, $29,407 for April 2007, $24,867 for June 2007 and $20,959 for May 2007.  In addition to the nearly $406,000 in bills for legal fees charged by ReedSmith, authority financial records show several other significant totals for legal fees or professional services.  For example, the authority incurred $78,988 in fees charged by KLH Engineers of Pittsburgh for providing expert testimony in the case. KLH receives other payments as the authoritys consulting engineers.  Gleason and Associates, a certified public accountant (CPA) firm from Pittsburgh, has charged the authority $53,125 as an expert witness in the legal case.  Over the 10-year period of the lawsuit, the Kane law firm of Woods, Baker and Ross has presented bills totaling $53,126, according to authority financial records.  The five-member volunteer authority voted in December to ratify the settlement of $1 million.  By accepting the settlement, the authority has agreed to drop further legal action against the defendants.  Although the settlement was reached more than 100 days ago, the authority has yet to receive the funds.  We havent seen a nickel, Ed Sleeman said Friday.  A CPA in Kane, he serves as treasurer for the authority. He is not a voting member of the agency.  Jim Salvamoser, a Kane borough councilman who serves as chairman of the authority, has said that he is satisfied with the settlement.  Sleeman, too, is glad the decade-old legal action has ended.  If we go to a trial, its a roll of the dice, Sleeman said in defending the acceptance of the settlement. We could have received a huge payment or we have received zero.  He said a trial also would have driven up legal fees for the authority.  The authority will use the $1 million settlement to replenish a mandated reserve fund of $716,000. The authority has dipped into this fund to pay fees associated with the lawsuit. The fund balance as of January stood at $240,000.  This reserve fund, which is mandated by the federal government, needs to carry a minimum of $716,000 to meet a years worth of authority debt service. The authority borrowed federal and state money to pay for the re-construction of the sewer plants and is paying back the loans, with interest.  After this mandated reserve fund is replenished, the authority is expected to place the balance of the settlement in another capital reserve fund to pay for certain projects, as needed.  Ross, who has been the solicitor for the authority for about 20 years, said in a statement that all parties involved in the lawsuit agreed to attempt to reach a settlement through a mediation process.  The mediation process utilized a paid mediator who reviewed and evaluated the facts and arguments presented by the various parties, then worked to facilitate a settlement, Ross said in the statement.  Ross has said there is no deadline for the receipt of the $1 million settlement.  But the nearly four-month delay in receiving the funds is becoming a concern for Sleeman, who handles the authoritys financial books.  Were going to get it, Sleeman said. The question is why dont we have it now?  Id like to get the money in the bank and move on, he added.  Theres one link with the settlement that could raise a red flag.  The insurance company for the defendants is expected to pay the $1 million settlement to the authority. That insurance company reportedly is the financially-ailing American International Group (AIG), which recently received a controversial bailout from Congress.  
