Dayton Business Journal  Related News  The Ohio Department of Insurance is seeing consumers come forward with largely the same troubles, but the total of complaints fell by 9 percent last year, according to new data.  The Insurance Department said it fielded 6,506 complaints last year, down from 7,140 in 2007. At the same time, the total amount recovered after the complaints also fell by 9 percent to $9.7 million from $10.7 million.  The decline in complaints, which comes after a drop in 2007 as well, mirrors nationwide data from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The association said state departments of insurance logged 195,669 consumer complaints last year, down 8 percent from 2007.  Jarrett Dunbar, a spokesman for the Insurance Department, attributed the drop to increased efforts to inform Ohioans, leading to better-educated consumers.  What didnt change last year, compared with 2007, was the fact that three in 10 complaints stem from claim denials. Nationwide, about 18 percent of complaints stem from claims denials.  E-mail dayton@bizjournals.com. Call (937) 528-4400.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  State CFO offers storm risk reduction plan  [South Florida]  State CFO offers storm risk reduction plan  [Jacksonville] [Cincinnati]  Insurance department saw fewer complaints in 08  [Columbus]  Insurance department saw fewer complaints in 08  [Dayton]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Dayton  Extra  Best sports teams  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by  FINANCIAL ADVISORS - Capitol Wealth, Inc.  North Carolina Permanent Family Practice Opportunity  Board Certified Family Medicine Physician  Two Cardiologists for Community Based Duke Faculty Positions  Avaya Genesys Project Manager  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 25,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte
