Charlotte Business Journal - by Will Boye  Related News  Real estate brokerage Trinity Partners has crafted a novel incentive plan to generate interest in one of its properties  and pump some cash into the local economy.  Charles Jonas, a managing director at Trinity, sent an e-mail to the broker community this week, inviting them to take part in his economic-stimulus plan.  To participate, a broker needs to bring a prospect for a tour of the new, 125,000-square-foot Linville Building in the Perimeter Woods office park near Northlake Mall.  In exchange for the tour, participating brokers receive their choice of a $100 gift card from one of the retailers surrounding Perimeter Woods.  Trinity Capital, an affiliate of Trinity Partners, is an investor in Perimeter Woods Investors, the ownership group that bought the 100-acre office park in 2002. Last year, the group opened Linville, the first of three office buildings planned for Perimeter Woods.  Trinity Partners just signed its first tenant for the Linville building: United National Group, an insurance company that moved in this month and is leasing about 5,000 square feet.  Jonas hopes his plan will generate interest in the building while also highlighting the amenities around the office park.  In tough times like these, its hard to separate your building, he says. Were trying to highlight whats there and have fun with it. Even with this economy, tenants are out there looking. They might not be expanding, they might not be growing, but they do need office space.  Trinitys lease rate on the building is $21.50 per square foot. The average annual rental rate in the north Mecklenburg office market was $20.10 in the fourth quarter, according to Karnes Research Co.  Vacancy in that area jumped to 17.5% in the fourth quarter, up from 15% in the third.  After generating some early interest from brokers, Jonas plan had to be revised shortly after it was unveiled: A few brokers called to express interest in taking a tour  but didnt realize they needed to bring a prospect to get a gift card.  These tough economic times demand certain sacrifices, but it is now evident that the decision to furlough the Department of Proofreading has backfired, Jonas wrote in a mea culpa e-mail. While a tour of the building is a day well spent, the incentive is meant to be for a tour with a prospect.  Absolute Fire purchases new HQ  Absolute Fire Control has bought a 29,000-square-foot building off Brookshire Boulevard for its new headquarters.  The Charlotte-based company, which specializes in fire-safety equipment, recently purchased the building at 215 Lawton Road for $1.1 million. It will relocate its business operations in April from leased space on South Graham Street, near Bank of America Stadium.  The new location will give Absolute Fire additional space. And the 3.4-acre site will allow it to store some of its materials outdoors, says Lawrence Shaw of Clarus Properties, who represented the buyer.  The building was sold by JJF Enterprises Inc. It previously housed the corporate offices of Freemans Car Stereo Inc.  Larry Prince of Evco Properties represented the seller. He says Freeman is relocating its corporate offices into the companys Independence Boulevard location.  L.A. East expands to Blakeney  Clothing boutique L.A. East has leased 1,200 square feet in Blakeney, where it plans to open its second store, possibly as early as next month.  Co-owner Melissa Thomas says the Tega Cay-based company chose Blakeney because it wanted to be near other retail clothing stores as it ventured into Charlotte.  Thats always the best-case scenario if youre opening a clothing store, that you surround yourself with similar businesses, she says.  Thomas and her husband opened their first store at the Stonecrest development in Tega Cay about a year ago. Before that, they operated an online business for about seven years. She says the couple would like to open a store farther north in Charlotte but will take the companys expansion one step at a time.  Josh Beaver of The Nichols Co. represented L.A. East in the Blakeney deal, and Gwen Glaeser of Crosland handled lease negotiations for the landlord.  
