OSI Restaurant Partners Inc. is embroiled in a multimillion-dollar legal dispute with one of its biggest franchisees.  OSI, headquartered in Tampa, filed suit Feb. 19 in Hillsborough County Circuit Court against T-Bird Nevada LLC, a franchisee that owns 56 Outback Steakhouse restaurants in California and manages seven others. The suit said T-Bird defaulted on a loan agreement with Bank of America that OSI guaranteed, thus defaulting on its franchise agreement. Forty-one of T-Birds stores, all in California, were named as co-defendants in the lawsuit.  The next day, T-Bird filed suit in California alleging that OSI reneged on its agreement to roll up, or buy back, T-Birds holdings when OSI went private in 2007.  Thomas Shannon, principal owner of T-Bird, is a longtime member of the OSI inner circle and personal friend of OSI founders Chris Sullivan and Bob Basham. In the 1990s, the trio attempted to purchase the Tampa Bay Buccaneers from the Culverhouse estate for $163.3 million, but were outbid by Malcolm Glazer.  In 1997, T-Bird obtained a $25 million line of credit from BofA (NYSE: BAC) to finance the building of Outback Steakhouse units in California and OSI guaranteed the loan to help Shannon expand the brand in California, OSIs complaint said.  The note had no other collateralization and was renewed two additional times and increased to $35 million without any personal guarantees from Shannon, OSIs complaint said.  When it lapsed on Dec. 31, BofA demanded payment of the balance. When T-Bird declined to pay the bank, BofA declared the note in default and OSI paid off the balance and assumed ownership of the note, OSIs complaint said.  Now OSI wants its money from T-Bird or the 41 restaurants named in the complaint. The restaurants are worth considerably more than the $35 million that OSI paid BofA, said Steve Mitchell, partner at Squire Sanders and legal counsel to Shannon in the dispute.  Last year T-Bird Nevadas group of restaurants produced $208 million of revenue, Mitchell said.  OSI is represented by Hill Ward &amp; Hendersons Tampa office and by Ropes &amp; Gray in Boston. Calls to both law firms were pending return. Joe Kadow, OSIs executive vice president and chief officer for legal and corporate affairs, declined to comment about the pending litigation. Kadow was named a defendant in T-Birds suit against OSI.  T-Birds lawsuit said Shannon had an understanding with Sullivan and OSI that said T-Bird would not have to repay the loan, that OSI would continue to guarantee it and that OSI would buy back the chain in connection with a major capital event and at a value that was consistent with what was obtained by OSI in other rollups. That major event was when OSI went private and sold to Bain Capital, Catterton Partners and Kangaroo Holdings Inc., a group headed by Sullivan, Basham and Tim Gannon, original founders of the Outback Steakhouse concept.  T-Birds lawsuit said OSI intentionally let the loan go into default by not agreeing to further guarantee it. Twice before, OSI had renewed its loan guarantee for T-Bird, the last time in 2004, the suit said.  Before OSI went private, it rolled up virtually all of the Outback Steakhouse franchise restaurants to consolidate OSIs ownership and merger value, T-Birds complaint said. It also said OSI conspired with its merger partners to hide the agreements with T-Bird by not listing any details in its quarterly filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Shannon had expected OSI to continue the loan guarantee, Mitchell said. Without the guarantee, BofA would refuse to extend the loan.  Shannon expected the deal to be perpetual until OSI bought out his units, Mitchell said.  Shannons business relationship with Sullivan, Basham and Gannon goes back to 1993, when Shannon agreed to test the California market with Outback Steakhouse restaurants. By 1996, he had opened 10 units in California. When Sullivan approached Shannon that year to open more units, Sullivan offered the loan guarantee and an inducement, the complaint said, as well as the other incentives mentioned.  OSI denies that the understanding took place, in a letter from Jane Willis, attorney for Ropes &amp; Gray, representing OSI, claiming that the terms of the loan agreement are enforceable.  
