   AIG's history dates back to 1919, when  Cornelius Vander Starr  established an insurance agency in  Shanghai ,  China . Starr was the first Westerner in Shanghai to sell insurance to the Chinese. After his business became successful in Asia, he expanded to other markets, including Latin America, Europe, and the Middle East.  [  citation needed  ]   In 1962, Starr gave management of the company's less than successful U.S. holdings to  Maurice R. "Hank" Greenberg , who shifted the company's U.S. focus from personal insurance to high-margin corporate coverage. Greenberg focused on selling insurance through independent brokers rather than agents to avoid selling insurance at prices which occasionally became too low (to cover the future payouts) given marketplace competition. A company with agents must pay their salaries even while selling little to no insurance. Instead, with brokers, AIG could price insurance properly even if it suffered decreased sales of certain products for great lengths of time with very little extra expense. In 1968, Starr named Greenberg his successor. The company went public in 1969.  [  citation needed  ]    In the mid-2000s AIG became embroiled in a series of fraud investigations conducted by the  Securities and Exchange Commission ,  U.S. Justice Department , and  New York State Attorney General 's Office. Greenberg was ousted amid an accounting scandal in February 2005. The New York Attorney General's investigation led to a $1.6 billion fine for AIG and criminal charges for some of its executives. Greenberg was succeeded as CEO by  Martin J. Sullivan , who had begun his career at AIG as a clerk in its London office in 1970.   [ 1 ]     On June 15, 2008, under intense pressure due to financial losses and a falling stock price, Martin Sullivan resigned from the CEO position. He was replaced by  Robert B. Willumstad , who had served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since 2006. Willumstad was forced to step down and was replaced by  Edward M. Liddy  on September 17, 2008.  [  citation       
