May 3, 2006New Study Finds Similarities Between Monkey Business And Human Business"Our results suggest that loss-averse behavior is a very general feature of economic choice," explain the authors. "Given our capuchins' inexperience with trade and gambles, these results suggest that loss-aversion extends beyond humans, and may be innate rather than learned."Fortunately, the U.S. taxpayers do not rely on inexperienced monkeys to do the trading and gambling on our behalf.November 16, 2006Citigroup gambling on ChinaKAI RYSSDAL: Here's a deal that's turning some heads. It's a a stake in a major banking operation. Never mind a history of mismanagement and corruption. Not to mention a mountain of loans that might never be collected. None of that seemed to matter in the bidding for a 20 percent share of China's Guangdong Development Bank.Citigroup's Stock Price: $50.66December 15, 2007Citibank's new chief takes $49bn gambleThe new chief executive of the world's biggest bank, Citigroup, has opted to bail out $49bn (24bn) of troublesome mortgage-related investment vehicles, in a fresh sign of the damage caused to the financial industry by the global credit crunch.Citigroup's Stock Price: $34.58November 27, 2008Citigroup says gold could rise above $2,000 next year as world unravelsThis gamble was likely to end in one of two extreme ways: with either a resurgence of inflation; or a downward spiral into depression, civil disorder, and possibly wars. Both outcomes will cause a rush for gold.Citigroup's Stock Price: $7.05So what will Citigroup do to earn money in such a harsh environment? Safely hoard toilet paper? Not exactly. They are going to gamble on mortgages again. That's the last thing the monkeys would expect! Genius!February 3, 2009Citgroup to deploy $36.5 billion to boost loans: reportOf the residential mortgage funds, $10 billion will go toward buying securities backed by mortgages that conform to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac standards while $7.5 billion will be used to buy prime home mortgages in secondary markets.Citigroup's Stock Price: $3.46On a warm summers evenin' on a train bound for nowhereI met up with the gambler; we were both too tired to sleepSo we took turns a starin' out the window at the darknessTil boredom overtook us, and he began to speakHe said, son, I've made a life out of readin' peoples facesAnd knowin' what their cards were by the way they held their eyesSo if you don't mind my sayin', I can see you're out of acesFor a taste of your whiskey I'll give you some adviceNovember 25, 2008Citigroup rescue a gamble for taxpayersWhether the government's rescue of Citigroup, announced late Sunday, will ultimately prove a good deal for taxpayers is hard to tell. In part, that's because no one seems sure what Citi's troubled assets are worth.Walkin' away since 2004.Runnin' away since 2007.I sure hope 2010 doesn't become the year of the bunkerin'.
