It appears that Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s bonus problem is not going away. With public anger at Wall Street riding high, the controversial $3.6 billion in bonus money that Merrill handed out to employees on the eve of its merger with Bank of America Corp. has become cause clbre for New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. With the heads of the major banks still smarting from the their grilling on Capitol Hill, Cuomo is ratcheting up the pressure on the Merrill bonus issue.   In a letter sent to Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., right before the congressional hearing Wednesday, Cuomo said the firm "secretly and prematurely" paid out the bonuses ahead of the announcement of its huge fourth-quarter loss. The AG writes:   in a surprising fit of corporate irresponsibility, it appears that, instead of disclosing their bonus plans in a transparent way as requested by my Office, Merrill Lynch secretly moved up the planned date to allocate bonuses and then richly rewarded their failed executives. Merrill Lynch had never before awarded bonuses at such an early date and this timetable allowed Merrill to dole out huge bonuses ahead of their awful fourth quarter earnings announcement and before the planned takeover of Merrill by Bank of America.  Merrill Lynch's decision to secretly and prematurely award approximately $3.6 billion in bonuses, and Bank of America's apparent complicity in it, raise serious and disturbing questions.   With the top four bonus recipients getting a combined $121 million and the next 20 getting another $378 million, Cuomo didn't need to do anything but release the information in order to stoke public anger. Cuomo fully intends to get to the bottom of the matter, dragging John Thain and Bank of America chief administrative officer J. Steele Alphin in for questioning, with a host of executives from BofA-Merrill Lynch likely brought in for the TV cameras as well.  In seeking to take care of his people, it looks like Thain may have given Cuomo (rumored to be interested in one day residing in the governor's mansion) the biggest bonus of all -- a highly visible, unsympathetic target to pursue as he makes his reputation. - George White   See Cuomo's letter to Barney Frank See Deal Pipeline story on CEO testimony See Dealscape post on Thain getting subpoenaed See Dealscape post on John Thain's resignation See Dealscape post on Wall Street bonuses 
