Stocks' sharp slide continued Thursday, pushing both the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&amp;amp;P 500 to lows not seen since before the dot-com bubble.The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 444.99 points, or 5.6%, to 7552.29. The benchmark's financial stocks were bludgeoned amid fears that more credit losses could begin to pile up from bets on commercial real estate, and that the balance sheets of financial institutions will be further sullied by what appears to be a worsening economic outlook.Citigroup, which lost nearly a quarter of its value a day ago, dropped 26% amid anxiety about its credit exposure. But few banking companies were spared from a battering on Thursday. Fellow Dow components J.P. Morgan Chase and Bank of America declined by 18% and 14%, respectively.Morgan Stanley, the Wall Street titan which recently converted itself into a bank holding company, fell more than 10% and ended trade under $10 a share. Goldman Sachs Group, undergoing a similar transformation to its Wall Street rival, fell 5.8% to $52. The S&amp;amp;P 500's financial sector dropped 10.7%, exerting a powerful undertow on the broad stock measure, which slid 6.7% to 752.44.Mounting evidence that the economy is entering a deep and lasting slowdown has been pulling down the price of many commodities, which had soared early this year as investors bet that world-wide demand could survive a reversal in the U.S. Adding to the accumulating signs of economic distress, initial jobless claims jumped to the highest level in 16 years last week, data out on Thursday showed.Crude-oil futures retreated under the $50 a barrel mark on the news, falling $4 a barrel, or 7.46%, to $49.62, the lowest settlement since May 23,2005. Crude has fallen 14.8% over the last five trading days and is down 48% for the year to date, after hitting a record closing high of $145.29 on July 3.Crude's drop pulled energy stocks down sharply. The S&amp;amp;P's energy sector ETF swooned 12.4%, as giant like Exxon Mobil and Chevron, which are both Dow components, fell 6.7% and 8.8%, respectively.Signs that the credit markets are binding up again added to the economic fears that have shadowed stocks over the past few weeks. Mortgage securities backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac tumbled, and an index of leveraged loans fell to a new low. Even the safest corporate debt fell hard. The high-grade corporate bond index Markit CDX IG11 was 38.25 basis points wider than Wednesday's close at 282.5/283.5 basis points, according to Markit.Those developments badly rattled many investors, who sought out the relative safety of the Treasury market, driving yields downward. The gains knocked the two-year yield below 1% for the first time and left the shortest-term Treasury bill rates at nearly zero.The search for safety also helped flush investors into the dollar. The greenback hit a 17-month high on the Swiss franc and approached a six-year high against the U.K. pound. The yen also benefited as investors again grew wary of taking even modest risks. Late Thursday in New York, the euro was at $1.2463 from $1.2526 late Wednesday, while the dollar was at 93.92 from 95.97Once again, the worst losses were seen late in the day, repeating a pattern that has become all too familiar to investors. Stocks market seesawed between gains and losses but began a steep slide around 2 p.m. as remarks from government officials cast doubt on a near-term resolution on an auto-maker bailout.Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson ruled out directing money to the car makers from the $700 billion rescue fund for the financial-services industry. Democrats on Capitol Hill said auto makers must provide a survival plan before Congress will extend loans to the embattled companies.'No one thinks a failure of any company in [the auto] industry would be a good thing. It's something to be avoided,' he said. But he added: 'It doesn't make any sense to put any money in if there isn't a clear path to viability.'General Motors and Ford had posted massive gains earlier in the session on hopes for an expanded bailout, but trimmed their gains through the close. GM ended 3.2% higher, while Ford was up 10.3%. At one point, GM shares surged by 30% before coming back to earth.The volatility seen in the past two trading days recalls the hairpin turns seen during the worst days of the credit crisis in September. Many investors have been seeking to protect themselves from the wild gyrations; the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a popular gauge of investor anxiety, has shot higher in recent days and climbed 8.9% to 80.86 on Thursday.'Deflation has come to the stock market just as much as it's come to the consumer sector,' said Kim Caughey, senior investment analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. 'People are looking at the market and thinking, well, that's a good price. But what if it falls more?'Other stock measures fell sharply. The tech-focused Nasdaq Composite Index was down 5.1% to 1316.12. The small-stock Russell 2000 fell 6.6% to 385.31.Just as investors' appetite for shares in profitless Internet companies ultimately led to disaster a few years ago, so too has home buyers' appetite for big houses they couldn't afford and Wall Street firms' appetite for risky bets on mortgage securities that executives didn't fully understand.'There are momentary opportunities to make money in this market right now, but no chance to really invest for the long haul,' said trader Chris Johnson, of the portfolio-management firm Johnson Research Group in Cincinnati.
