By Elaine Lies  TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 1.4 percent on Friday, with banks losing ground amid growing gloom about the U.S. economy even as worries about Japan's situation kept exporters from taking advantage of a weak yen. Seven &amp; I Holdings (3382.T Kirin Holdings (2503.T  Market players said the failure of exporters to gain after the dollar rose to a fresh 6-week high over 94 yen could become a problem if it persists. The dollar was steady in Tokyo time. 'The market really needs to make use of this weaker yen or there could be big problems next week. It's wasting this opportunity,' said Masayoshi Okamoto, head of dealing at Jujiya Securities, noting that the stronger yen took a huge toll on earnings for many blue-chip companies.  Investors fret about a stronger yen because it eats into exporter profits when they are repatriated, and with the end of the business year only five weeks away and many firms facing grim results, Okamoto said every bit of yen weakness could help.  But others in the market said the cheaper yen this time was a symptom of broader problems amid growing worry about Japan's economy. Data on Monday showed the economy suffered its worst quarterly decline since the 1974 oil crisis. 'This time, the weaker yen isn't a good thing. It's part of a broader 'sell Japan' trend,' said Masayoshi Yano, senior market analyst at Meiwa Securities.  The benchmark Nikkei .N225 shed 102.25 points to 7,455.40, while the broader Topix lost 0.9 percent to 745.18. If the Topix closes at that level, it will be the lowest close since 1984. EYES ON SEVEN &amp; I U.S. investor fears that banks could be nationalized drove their stocks to a 17-year low, with the KBW banks index .BKX falling to its lowest level since 1992, led by a 14 percent slide in Bank of America (BAC.N  Japanese banks slipped as well, with Mizuho Financial Group (8411.T Seven &amp; I became the fourth-largest drag on the Nikkei 225 by volume weight after the Asahi newspaper reported that the Fair Trade Commission is investigating whether Seven-Eleven, in violation of antimonopoly regulations, pressured franchise stores not to mark down daily food items such as boxed meals that were near their expiration dates.  In a statement, the company said that the FTC was investigating and that Seven and I was cooperating fully. Seven &amp; I shares fell 5.1 percent to 2,145 yen.  Another drag was Bridgestone Corp (5108.T  Tech shares fell after a disappointing outlook from Hewlett-Packard Co (HPQ.N But T&amp;D Holdings (8795.T Trade was light on the Tokyo exchange's first section, with 842 million shares changing hands, compared with last week's morning average of 896 million.  Declining stocks outpaced advancing ones by 2 to 1.  (Reporting by Elaine Lies; Editing by Brent Kininmont)  Thomson Reuters 2009 All rights reserved
