A broad-based stock selloff knocked the market within easy reach of its bear-market lows Tuesday, underscoring the renewed intensity of investors' jitters over the global economy's weakness. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently down by 262 points, or 3.3%, at about 7588, within 40 points of its Nov. 20 closing lows that have so far marked the bottom of the recent swoon. At its morning low, the Dow fell to within two points of its November low. The Dow's financial components once again led the way downward, with Bank of America, J.P. Morgan Chase, American Express, and Citigroup each off by around 9%. 'The financials are still the biggest concern for this market,' said Wachovia Securities strategist Al Goldman. 'A lot of investors are still worried about possible nationalization of some banks,' despite assurances by chief executives and government officials that such a move is not imminent. General Motors, which faces a Tuesday deadline to submit recovery plans to the U.S. government as part of their agreement to receive billions of dollars in federal loans, was down almost 14%, trading at $2.14 a share. Analysts and investors fear that GM may be facing an imminent bankruptcy filing if it can't find ways to cut its costs. Wal-Mart Stores said its fourth-quarter net income declined 7.4%. But the retail giant also issued a rosy outlook for the first quarter and the full fiscal year. Wal-Mart shares were up more than 3%, making it the only stock to rise among the Dow industrials. Traders and analysts increasingly fear that if major averages break to new lows, the downward momentum could mount, with the next trough not likely to be set until much more pain has been inflicted. 'Some people think it's bullish that we've been near the lows a couple times and not broken through yet, but I tend to think the other way,' said Chip Hanlon, president of Delta Global Advisors in Huntington Beach, Calif. 'The more times you test a low, the odds should go up that it's going to give way.' While Goldman acknowledges that new lows are possible, he remains hopeful that the latest chapter of the bear market may quickly draw to a close. 'If you go back to late last year when we set the earlier lows, there was so much outright dumping of stocks by hedge funds and everyone else,' he said. 'I'm not so sure that there's anyone left to do much more dumping.' Other analysts, however, are much less optimistic. Keith Wirtz, president and chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, estimated that the market could perhaps slide another 5% to 10% if it closes below its late-November lows. Wirtz said that his firm usually prefers to focus on fundamental factors like profits and valuations, but they've lately been keeping a closer eye on technicals, or chart-based trends in the market. 'The technicals matter a lot in this environment,' with automated trading programs again adding volatility to the market in recent days, he said. Wirtz added: 'We've told clients that there will eventually be a great buying opportunity in this market, but it's not time to be a hero yet.' Other market indexes traded lower in recent action. The S&amp;P 500 was down 4%, hurt by declines in every sector including a 7/5% plunge in the financials. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 3.6%. The Russell 2000 was down 3.6%. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a gauge of investor anxiety, surged 16% to climb back around the 50 mark. The U.S. losses come on the heels of big declines overseas. Asian stocks suffered losses Tuesday, with financial stocks such as Industrial Bank of Korea and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group sliding on fear the global economic crisis is deepening and a recovery could take longer than previously expected. Japan's Nikkei 225 slid by 1.4%, while the Shanghai Composite fell 2.9%. Fears about the health of banks pulled markets lower in Europe after Moody's Investors Service said it may downgrade the ratings of lenders with exposure to Eastern Europe. Moody's said faltering economic conditions in Eastern Europe will continue to hit the asset quality and liquidity positions of local subsidiaries of major Western banks, which could spill over to their corporate parents. Commodities prices sank due to deepening concern about demand for industrial materials amid the global economic downturn. Crude-oil futures slid $3 to $34.51 a barrel in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index was recently down almost 4%. Gold was an exception to the commodity selloff, helped by buying from investors looking to use the metal as a financial hedge against weakness in other investments. Futures were recently up almost $30 at $971.80 per ounce in New York. Treasury prices also benefited from a round of safe-haven buying. The two-year note was up 5/32 to yield 0.883%. The 10-year note climbed 1-26/32 to yield 2.687%. Elsewhere in the credit markets, swap spreads, a gauge of credit risks, widened across the board as investors shied from borrowers deemed less safe than the U.S. government. The cost to protect defaults from high-yielding, high-risk European firms climbed sharply. The dollar strengthened against major rivals. One euro recently cost $1.2577, down from $1.2779 late Friday. One greenback fetched 92.19 Japanese yen, up from 91.73 yen. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
