Bleak housing data weighed on U.S. stocks Wednesday, with financial stocks again bearing the brunt of traders' anxiety. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently down 155 points, or 2.1%, at 7,195.86. All its financial components traded in the red, with American Express suffering the biggest decline in percentage terms, off 7.9%. Citigroup declined by 5.4% and Bank of America slid 1.7%. J.P. Morgan Chase was down 1.1%. The S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite Index each fell about 2%. The financial sector remained in the spotlight a day after remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke calmed fears that major banks could be on the verge of full-blown nationalization. Traders rolled back much of Tuesday's big rally in the sector, pushing the S&amp;P 500's financial sector down about 3.9%. Economists say fixing the banking sector is crucial to a broader recovery. There are a thousand ways to put a trillion dollars in the economy, but with banks it's a pier you fall off of if you don't recapitalize the banks,' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at Investment Technology Group. The market's losses quickened following the release of weaker-than-expected housing data. The National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes fell 5.3% in January to an annual pace of 4.49 million units, the weakest reading since July 1997. About 45% of home sales involved distressed property transactions, including foreclosures. Analyst Mike Larson of Weiss Research wrote in a note to clients that the weak jobs market has perhaps become the paramount problem on the long list of woes bedeviling the housing market these days. 'You can take steps to manipulate interest rates, which the Federal Reserve is doing. You can tout rising home affordability. You can try to minimize foreclosures,' he wrote. 'But if Americans are worried they won't have a job next month, next quarter, or next year, you've got a real problem.... People just aren't going to buy many houses.' The ailing housing market is at the root of the financial sector and the broader economy's woes. The data caused housing stocks to fall - the PHLX Housing Sector Index was down by 3.8% in recent trading - and led to selling in other economically sectors such as industrials and energy stocks. Health-care stocks were also lower. Regulators are expected to begin putting banks through stress tests Wednesday to determine whether they have adequate capital. Most veteran traders and analysts expect the market to remain in the doldrums. 'It's like we're having death by a thousand cuts here,' said S&amp;P market analyst Rich Peterson. Beyond the banks, Ambac Financial Group, the bond insurer, fell 8.9% after it said its financial-guarantee losses and provisions surged. Wynn Resorts shares fell 16% after it reported a deep quarterly loss amid a 'dramatic deceleration' in gambling revenue. Discount retailer Dollar Tree sank 1.0% despite posting strong earnings. Treasury prices fell. The two-year note was down 2/32 to yield 1.046%. The 10-year note fell 17/32 to yield 2.862%. The dollar strengthened against the euro, Japanese yen, and British pound. The U.S. Dollar Index rose 1.1%. Commodity prices rose. Oil prices were up nearly $2 to $41.92 a barrel, while gold contracts gained $1.30 to trade at $970.80 per ounce in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index was up 1%. Asian markets were generally stronger Wednesday after Wall Street's gains on Tuesday. The Nikkei 225 climbed 2.7%, with exporters helped by the recent bout of yen weakness. European markets also started the day on a strong note but turned around after the U.S. housing report. The FTSE ended up by 0.8%. Germany's DAX fell 1.3% after S&amp;P's downgrade of Ukraine's debt led to renewed worry about a deepening financial crisis in Eastern Europe. (Geoffrey Rogow contributed to this story.) -Contact: 201-938-5400 
