NEW YORK (Reuters) - Stocks rose on Monday as investors snapped up shares of banks and insurers on hopes that a rescue plan for the financial sector would spare shareholders, while higher oil prices underpinned the energy sector.  The market was anxiously awaiting the Obama administration's bank rescue plan, which Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner is expected to unveil on Tuesday. The announcement was postponed from Monday to enable lawmakers to focus on the stimulus package, which remains bogged down in the Senate.  Bank of America  shares rose 13 percent to $6.94, while the KBW Bank index  climbed 3.3 percent.  'The big positive from the confidence standpoint is that we're not going to go down the road to nationalization,' said Alan Lancz, president, Alan B. Lancz &amp; Associates Inc, an investment advisory firm, based in Toledo, Ohio. 'The focus is on Capitol Hill, what they come up with tomorrow.'  The Dow Jones industrial average  rose 10.03 points, or 0.12 percent, to 8,290.62. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index  added 3.46 points, or 0.40 percent, to 872.06. The Nasdaq Composite Index  climbed 0.96 points, or 0.06 percent, to 1,592.67.  Regional banks were another standout, with Huntington Bancshares  climbing 24.2 percent to $2.92. Among insurers Hartford Financial  climbed 21.7 percent to $15.44.  In the energy sector, Chevron Corp  gained 2.2 percent to $49 as U.S. front-month crude climbed 4.2 percent, or $1.66, to $41.82 a barrel.  (Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)  2009 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Reuters content is the intellectual property of Thomson Reuters or its third party content providers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. Thomson Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 'Reuters' and the Reuters Logo are trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its affiliated companies. For additional information on other Reuters media services please visit http://about.reuters.com/media/.  Related Sites: IBN - IT Business Net , IBN - Storage , IBN - Business , IBN - Enterprise Applications , IBN - Hardware , IBN - Networking , IBN - Internet , IBN - ProductivityApps , IBN - Security , IBN - SoftwareDev  Related Newsletters: IBN - IT Weekly Newsletter  Source:?? 2009 Thomson Reuters. . All Rights Reserved  
