(RTTNews) - The major Asian averages have turned mixed on Monday amid the continuing economic uncertainty roiling the markets. The recovery seems to have been triggered by a turnaround in the U.S. futures and the weakening of the dollar following reports that U.S. financial services giant Citigroup (C) is in talks to sell incremental stake to the U.S. government.  U.S. stocks closed the week ended February 20th on a markedly downbeat note due to continuing anxiety over a recovery even amid several government initiatives to tackle the crisis. Specifically on Friday, the major U.S. averages continued their slide, as talks of bank nationalization created a flutter in the market. The Dow Industrials dropped about 6.17% for the week, while the S&amp;P 500 Index and the Nasdaq Composite Index posted weekly losses of 6.87% and 6.07%, respectively.  In the commodity market, oil is seeing modest strength after the black metal rose sharply in the precious week, mostly helped by a surge on Thursday in reaction to an unexpected decline in U.S. crude oil inventories in the week ended February 13th. In the past week, the commodity gained 6.72%.  After declining about 1.45% against the dollar in the week ended February 13th, the yen is rising and is currently trading in the upper '92' level.  Japanese market began the week on a downbeat note. The weakness is an extension from last week, when Japan's key average, the Nikkei 225 Index declined 4.67%. The Nikkei 225 Average opened Monday's session lower, with a negative gap of over 102 points and saw further weakness, as traders are resorting to large scale liquidation of positions. However, since then the index has trimmed most of its losses and is currently trading down 17.54 points or 0.24% at 7,399.  The Japanese market is witnessing a broad based sell-off, with a majority of stocks declining sharply in the session. Technology and financial stocks are experiencing marked weakness. Financial stocks are recoiling, tracking the weakness of their U.S. peers last Friday following talks of bank nationalization in the U.S. Additionally, sentiment in the space soured after moneylender SFGC Co. said it has filed for bankruptcy protection with the Tokyo District Court.  Automakers, oil stocks, paper makers, construction companies and steel makers are trading lower across the board. Among individual stocks, Credit Saison is receding about 11%. Other notable decliners included Shinshei Bank (down 7%), Chiyoda (down 6%) and Toshiba (down 7%). Toshiba is seeing weakness after reports said that the company is contemplating financing options.  On the other hand, utilities are showing some strength and rubber makers are also trading higher. Asahi Breweries, Eisai, J Front Retailing, Kansai Electric Power, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi Chemicals, Osaka Gas, Shin-Etsu Chemicals, Sumitomo Metal Mining and Tokyo Electron are all moving to the upside.  Australia's All Ordinaries opened lower and moved further to the downside before trimming some of its losses by the mid-session. The index is currently down 42.30 points or 1.26% at 3,311, dragged down by mining stocks, which are seeing significant weakness.  Most sector stocks are trading lower, with the exception of consumer staple and telecommunication stocks, which are trading with slender gains. In the financial space, ANZ Bank, Axa Asia, Commonwealth Bank and National Australia Bank are seeing weakness, while Westpac is edging up in the session.  The mining space is showing mixed sentiment. BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto are sharply, but Newcrest Mining and Lihir Gold are advancing moderately.  Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index opened notably higher and is trading roughly sideways. The index is trading up 290.17 points or 2.26% at 12,987. A majority of stocks are advancing in the session.  Hong Kong Electric, Hutchison, Hang Lung Property and Li &amp; Fung are showing strength. Among the index heavyweights, HSBC Holdings is edging down, while China Mobile is rising over 2.80%. Yue Yuen Industries and Chalco are among the notable decliners.  South Korea's Kospi, which opened weak and was trading mostly below the unchanged line in the first hour of trading, recovered thereafter and buying interest has picked up since then. The Kospi is currently trading up 24.83 points or 2.32% at 1,091.  Among the other markets in the region, the Taiwanese Weighted Average is advancing 0.74%, Singaporean Straits Times Index is gaining 0.36% and the Indonesian Jakarta Composite Index is rising 0.54%. However, the Chinese Shanghai Composite Index is declining 0.35% and New Zealand's NZ50 Average is receding 1.36%.
