(RTTNews) - While selling pressure has waned from earlier in the session, stocks continue to see substantial weakness in mid-afternoon trading on Tuesday. The major averages remain firmly in negative territory after showing a steep decline in the first few minutes of trading.  The initial weakness in the markets was partly due to considerable weakness among financial stocks, which moved lower along with their European counterparts. Troubling comments from Moody's contributed to the weakness in the sector.  Moody's issued a report raising concerns about Western European banks supporting Eastern Europe subsidiaries, noting that East European countries have entered a deep and long economic downturn that has exposed West European banks' claims on East European institutions.  The reaction to the news also reflected lingering concerns about the impact of the global economic slowdown, with traders largely shrugging off the news about the enactment of the U.S. economic stimulus plan.  Shortly, President Barack Obama is due to sign the the $787 billion economic stimulus bill into law in a ceremony in Denver, with the administration suggesting that the bill will save or create 3.5 million jobs.  However, Republicans have argued that that the bill will not result in any real stimulus, saying that it should have focused more on tax cuts than on government spending. Some analysts have suggested that stimulus plan is not likely to have an immediate impact on the economy.  In other news, the SEC said that it is charging Robert Allen Stanford of Stanford International Bank with an $8 billion investment scheme. The announcement came on the heels of reports that federal marshals had entered Stanford Financial at its headquarters in Houston, Texas.  Separately, the SEC revealed that it charged BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIMM) and four of its senior executives for stock option backdating. The executives include Co-Chief Executive Officers James Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis.  The major averages have moved towards the high end of their intraday range in recent trading, although they continue to post steep losses. The Dow is currently down 250.34 at 7,600.07, the Nasdaq is down 53.01 at 1,481.35 and the S&amp;P 500 is down 32.21 at 794.63.  Dow Components  Nearly all of the Dow components are in negative territory in mid-afternoon trading, contributing to the steep loss being shown by the blue chip index. Of the thirty Dow components, only Wal-Mart (WMT) is currently above the unchanged line.  General Motors (GM) is turning in one of the Dow's worst performances, with the auto giant currently down 12.8 percent. With the loss, shares of GM are poised to end the session at a new multi-decade closing low.  The steep loss by GM comes amid reports suggesting that GM and Chrysler have struggled to reach agreements with debt holders and union workers ahead of a deadline to submit their restructuring plans to the federal government.  The financial stocks within the Dow have also moved sharply lower, reflecting substantial weakness in the sector as a whole. American Express (AXP), Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and JP Morgan (JPM) are all down more than 9 percent each.  While most of the other Dow components are also posting notable losses, Wal-Mart is currently up 3.2 percent after the company reported fourth quarter earnings that fell year-over-year but came in above the company's guidance.  Sector News  With traders expressing concerns about the outlook for steel demand amid the global economic slowdown, steel stocks are posting substantial losses. The Amex Steel Index is currently down 9.6 percent, although it remains in a two-month trading range.  Posco (PKX) is turning in one of the steel sector's worst performances, with the South Korea-based steel maker currently down 13.4 percent. With the loss, shares of Posco have fallen to their worst intraday level in over two months.  Banking stocks also continue to see substantial weakness, dragging the S&amp;P Banks Index down 8.2 percent to a multi-year intraday low. MGIC Investment (MTG), Huntington Bancshares (HBAN), and SunTrust (STI) continue to lead the way lower.  Considerable weakness also remains visible among energy stocks, which are moving lower along with the price of oil. Crude for March delivery is currently down $2.56 at $34.95 a barrel after showing a notable upward move on Friday.  A variety of other sectors have are also seeing continued weakness in mid-afternoon trading, with some semiconductor, brokerage, and transportation stocks posting steep losses. On the other hand, gold stocks continue to buck the downtrend.  Other Markets  In overseas trading, significant weakness was visible in the markets across the Asia-Pacific region on Tuesday, with Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 Index closing down 1.4 percent amid news of the resignation of Japan's finance minister.  The major European markets also retreated sharply, with the French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index closing down 2.9 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively, while the FTSE 100 Index fell 2.4 percent. Oil and financial stocks weighed on the markets.  In the bond market, treasuries are seeing continued strength after showing a strong upward move in morning trading. Subsequently, the yield on the ten-year note is currently down 21.1 basis points at 2.671 percent after moving sharply higher on Friday.
