MARKETS were given a brief fillip yesterday after comments by US President Barack Obama and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke soothed investors concerns about the embattled banking sector.   Following a 3,3% rise on Wall Street overnight, stock markets across Asia and Europe improved. However, the threat of future sovereign ratings downgrades arose as rating agency Standard &amp; Poors downgraded Ukraines debt, spurring concern that the credit crisis is deepening.   The JSE gained 2% at its best, but retraced most of its gains after the US market opened weaker. The all share closed just four points higher at 18818. Gold shares came under pressure as the spot price of gold fell to $951,65/oz.   The rand and government bonds weakened after inflation figures for last month came in worse than expected. The rand was trading at R9,93/$ yesterday evening, while the yield on the benchmark government bond, the R157, weakened by 11 points to 7,92%.  Garth Mackenzie, head of derivatives at BoE Private Clients, said the fact that inflation was higher than expected might have disappointed investors as it decreased the likelihood of an emergency cut in interest rates.   Earlier , Bernanke had lifted the mood by signalling that nationalisation of big US banks was not at hand. Concerns that Washington might nationalise big US banks  which would wipe out shareholders and add to the fiscal burden  had weighed on stocks and other risky assets. In Europe, Deutsche Bank, BNP Paribas and UBS surged more than 7% as Bernanke told Congress the government would use supervision instead of shareholder control to guide banks. The JSEs banks index gained as much as 3,7%, before closing 1,2% higher. But shares in US banks fell again yesterday amid continued uneasiness about the steps the government will take to help struggling financial companies.   The Obama administration planned to begin stress tests on the nations biggest banks yesterday to determine how they would fare if the recession deepened. Banking regulators plan to examine the financial well-being of Citigroup, Bank of America and more than a dozen other institutions that have received money from the governments $700bn bail-out fund. I think there is still a lot of inherent weakness in these markets and its not out of the way yet, said Mackenzie. The downward momentum is not finished yet. Mackenzie said the JSE could still retest the lows it hit on November 20, when the all share closed at 17 814.   Investors were also disappointed that Obama provided few new clues about how his administration would shore up the US economy in a speech before Congress on Tuesday night. Obama declared a day of reckoning after an age of excess ended in economic meltdown and demanded national sacrifice and responsibility.  Meanwhile, following the downgrade of Ukraines debt, Standard &amp; Poors told Reuters it expected more sovereign ratings downgrades than upgrades this year compared with a year ago as global economies battle a deepening recession. With Bloomberg, Reuters
