SINGAPORE (Reuters) - U.S. oil prices hung below $37 a barrel on Tuesday as bleak economic indicators in Asia returned focus to the worldwide oil demand slump.  Following Monday data showing Japan's economy shrank by the most in 35 years, a Reuters poll showed confidence among manufacturers remained mired near record lows and service sector sentiment fell to its poorest ever. 'Concerns over weak oil consumption continue to weigh on the oil price,' David Moore, a commodities analyst at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said in a note.  U.S. light crude fell to $36.69 a barrel at 2:19 a.m. British time, 82 cents off last Friday's settlement but slightly higher than late European trading a day ago. Ahead of the March contract expiry on Friday, the contract was trading at a wide $4.50 discount to April due to high stock levels in the mid-U.S. The New York Mercantile Exchange did not print a settlement price on Monday as its trading floor was closed for Presidents Day, although electronic trading continued as normal. The floor will reopen later on Tuesday.  The top 600 companies in South Korea, Asia's fourth-largest economy, plan to cut their capital investments this year for the first time in eight years, South Korea's main lobby group for large companies said on Tuesday.  World energy demand has fallen considerably in the last few months as the economic crisis hit consumers, pulling oil prices more than 70 percent off the peak above $147 touched last July.  To take advantage of low prices, Russia is working towards creating a state reserve to buy crude from producers, potentially removing up to 16 million tonnes of Russian oil from export markets, a top energy official said.  Prices may regain traction from improved consumption next year, with IEA Executive Director Nobuo Tanaka saying he expects world oil demand to resume growing in 2010 by about 1 million barrels per day (bpd).  But he cautioned about a supply crunch from next year if investment in new oil production and alternative forms of energy were reduced by the current demand downturn.  Later on Tuseday U.S. President Barack Obama is due to sign the $787 billion economic stimulus bill, while indicators including manufacturing production in New York State and U.S. home builder sentiment for February may set the market's tone.
