NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- Stocks tumbled Wednesday morning as a weaker-than-expected January housing report and ongoing worries about the recession ate into the previous session's rally.  The Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) lost 140 points, or 1.9%, over an hour into the session. The S&amp;P 500 (SPX) index lost 14 points, or 1.8%. The Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 24 points, or 1.7%.  Stocks bounced back from 12-year lows Tuesday after comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke downplayed bank takeover fears. But the gains fizzled out Wednesday morning and the market continued its choppy movement.  The selling intensified Wednesday after the release of the January existing home sales report. The sales rate fell to 4.49 million units from a rate of 4.74 million units in December. The sales rate had been expected to rise to a 4.79 million units, according to a consensus of economists surveyed by Briefing.com.   Financial stocks were again under pressure as the sector geared up for more details on the Treasury's 'stress tests,' which are supposed to determine the solvency of the banks and whether they need additional capital.  Decliners included Citigroup (C, Fortune 500), Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500), Wells Fargo (WFC, Fortune 500), Goldman Sachs (GS, Fortune 500) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500).  Worries that the banks will be nationalized have weighed on stocks for the past two weeks, as such a move would wipe out shareholder value. Stocks have also been sliding in response to bleak economic news, including reports Tuesday that showed all-time lows for consumer confidence and home prices.  Washington: Speaking Tuesday night before both chambers of Congress, President Obama told the nation: 'We will rebuild, we will recover and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before.' The president outlined plans for creating jobs, stabilizing the credit markets, reforming health care, improving schools and ending the Iraq war, among other issues. He presents his 10-year budget plan to Congress Thursday.  However, Wall Street showed little reaction to the speech Wednesday.   Investors were also keeping an eye on the second-day of testimony from Bernanke, who was speaking to the House Financial Services Committee as part of his semi-annual address.  Bonds: Treasury prices slipped, raising the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 2.81% from 2.79% Tuesday. Treasury prices and yields move in opposite directions.  Other markets: In global trading, Asian markets ended higher and European markets fell in the afternoon.  In currency trading, the dollar gained versus the euro and the yen.  U.S. light crude oil for April delivery rose 80 cents to $40.74 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  COMEX gold for April delivery rose $4.50 to $974 an ounce. 
