 Asian share markets were mixed Tuesday before an expected U.S. Senate vote on a $827 billion stimulus package, though financial shares were higher in Tokyo and Korea's transport stocks were bolstered by yet another rise in a key shipping index. Japan's Nikkei 225 was 0.3% higher with Korea's Kospi Composite down 0.4%, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 down 0.7% and New Zealand's NZX-50 0.5% lower. There was heavy action in foreign exchange markets early in Asian hours with the euro and Australian dollar sliding on reports Russian banks and companies may look for help to reschedule $400 billion in loans. Stocks had no strong lead from Wall Street, which ended steady as investors awaited Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner's briefing on his bank sector plan and with lawmakers expected to vote later Tuesday on the White House-backed stimulus package. 'Many investors have already squared positions and are likely to sit tight,' said Kenichi Hirano, operating officer at Tachibana Securities in Tokyo. U.S. stock futures were flat in screen trade, reflecting the holding pattern that markets were in; 'people need to know what's happening, how much they're spending and what they're spending it on. I think once that (uncertainty is) taken away, the U.S. market can look forward,' said Chris Blair, head of Sydney retail trading at Patersons Securities. The U.S. legislation passed a key test in the Senate earlier Tuesday with a 61-36 vote to end delaying-tactics by conservative Republicans that had pushed debate into a seventh day; that set the stage for a final vote, which would send the package into a House-Senate conference to resolve significant differences between the chambers' respective bills. Hopes for a China-demand led recovery in commodities and thus shipping was helping transport stocks in Seoul, with the Baltic Dry Index rising another 10.5% Monday, adding to its string of sharp gains. STX Pan Ocean was up 0.5% with Hyundai Heavy adding 1.3%, though shipping stocks were pulling back a bit in Tokyo after their big rise of late. 'There are signs of iron ore restocking amid a modest uptick in the Chinese Purchase Manager Index, industrial production and power consumption data,' said analysts at UOB KayHian in Singapore. Financial stocks were higher in Tokyo before the U.S. bank-sector briefing with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group adding 2.3% and Daiwa Securities up 3.2%; Tokio Marine Holdings added 2.9%. Financial and mining stocks though were mostly lower in Sydney with BHP Billiton down 0.6% and Rio Tinto falling 2.8%; ANZ Bank had fallen 1.9%. AWB sank 15% after the agricultural company reported operating conditions deteriorated notably in the four months ended Jan. 31 and said it expected profit in its fiscal first half ending March 31 to be down 45% to 55% from an actual A$22.3 million in the year-earlier period. In currency markets the euro had fallen against both the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen, to $1.2892 from $1.3022 late in New York, and Y117.70 from Y119.16; the Australian dollar was lower against both the U.S. dollar and yen in turn. Traders in Sydney and Tokyo cited a report in the Nikkei which quoted the head of Russia's biggest banking association as saying Russian banks and businesses may ask foreign banks to reschedule loans worth $400 billion. 'It's just a reminder that all is not good and certainly has injected a bit of risk aversion into the Asian market,' said RBC Capital Markets senior currency strategist Sue Trinh. There was selling of the euro and Australian dollar by Japanese companies and institutional investors, with this likely to continue in the lead-up to the Japanese fiscal year end in March, said Westpac strategist Robert Rennie. The U.S. dollar was fairly quiet in comparison against the yen, at Y91.23 from Y91.47. Japanese government bonds were lower on gains in the Nikkei and before an auction of five-year notes; March futures fell 0.16 to 138.40 points with the yield on the 10-year note up two basis points. Spot gold was down 60 cents at $894.40 a troy ounce from late New York levels, with March Nymex crude oil futures up 12 cents on Globex at $39.68 a barrel. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
