 U.S. stock futures dropped Tuesday after a three-day break, as concerns over the health of the carmakers and contagion effects from Eastern Europe's meltdown weighed on sentiment. S&amp;P 500 futures (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 17 points to 803.10 and Nasdaq 100 futures (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 27.5 points to 1,201.70. Dow industrials futures (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) lost 143 points. Judging by the stock futures action, the S&amp;P 500 may test the 800 level again. 'The focus is on 800 in the S&amp;P 500. If it submits to heavy testing, this should push the short-term sentiment indicators into oversold territory,' said technical analysts from UniCredit. U.S. stocks closed last week with losses on concerns that plans to stimulate the economy and rescue bad banks would fall flat. The S&amp;P 500 and the Dow industrials both lost about 5%. The dollar rose against rivals, notably the euro, which was hurt by worries over Eastern Europe exposure. Europe stocks dropped, as the FTSE 100 fell 2.3% in London and the German DAX lost 2.7% in Frankfurt. Reflecting the market nervousness, gold futures shot up nearly $23 an ounce. Treasurys also jumped early Tuesday, pushing yields down by the most in a week, as worries about European bank exposures to Eastern Europe and concerns about Ireland's financial stability had investors clamoring for the relative safety of U.S. government debt and fleeing equities overseas. Ten-year note yields fell 17 basis points to 2.73%. The New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Survey fell to -34.65 in February from 22.2 in January, in another signal of a troubled economy. Also, the National Association of Home Builders gives its sentiment report, and St. Louis Fed President James Bullard will deliver a speech. Asian stocks lost ground on concerns over earnings from Hong Kong and Chinese banks. The Nikkei 225 fell 1.4% in Tokyo and the Shanghai Composite lost 2.9%. U.S. investors also will get their first chance to react to the news of the annualized 12.7% contraction in Japan's economy during the Dec.-ending quarter, that economy's worst performance since the 1974 recession. U.S. banks also struggled, with Bank of America (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) falling in pre-market trade. Tuesday marks the deadline for General Motors (GM:GM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and privately held Chrysler LLC to submit recovery plans to the government, a condition to get billions of dollars in loans. Ex-Lazard banker Ron Bloom is expected to be named a key government adviser, The Wall Street Journal reported, and he is expected to be tough on the automakers. GM shares skidded 9% in pre-market trade. Separately, Daimler (DAI:DAI Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) reported a $1.9 billion fourth-quarter loss, partly on heavy losses linked to its stake in Chrysler as well as sharp drop in Mercedes-Benz sales. Daimler lost nearly 7%. The carmakers need to submit their plans by 5 p.m. Eastern. Wal-Mart Stores (WMT:WMT Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) reported fourth-quarter results, with the retailing giant handing out results slightly above expectations but issuing annual guidance slightly below estimates. Wal-Mart shares edged up 1.4% in pre-market trade. Elsewhere, Exxon Mobil (XOM:XOM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) on Monday that it replaced more oil reserves than it produced during 2008. Exxon fell 1.9% in pre-market trade. Liberty Media (LINTA:LINTA Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) reached a deal to invest $530 million in struggling satellite radio provider Sirius XM Radio (SIRI:SIRI Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) . Trump Entertainment Reports (TRMP:TRMP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, according to Reuters. Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch's London bureau chief.
