(Adds information, quotes, updates/adds market levels)  Asian stocks were higher Friday after a late-day recovery in the U.S. market, with a large gain in ANZ Bank improving the tone in Australian financial stocks. Pioneer though slumped 19% in Tokyo after the electronics supplier said it faced a large net loss this fiscal year and would cut jobs. Japan's Nikkei 225 was up 1.5% with Korea's Kospi Composite erasing early declines to be 0.5% higher and the S&amp;P/ASX 200 up 0.9%; Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index added 1.3% with Taiwan's main index up 2.1%. 'Japanese stocks were a little oversold Thursday so the market is seeing some short-covering,' said Takero Inaizumi, head of equities department at Mizuho Investors Securities; that strong lead was helping markets elsewhere in Asia. But there was also some caution as investors geared up for end-of-quarter redemption notices for hedge funds, and with the March fiscal year-end drawing closer in Japan. Plus there was a reluctance to hold positions before a holiday in the U.S. markets on Monday. 'With foreign investors quiet before a three-day weekend in the U.S., the market is unlikely to move much,' said Tsuyoshi Kawata, a senior strategist at Nikko Cordial. Blue chips were higher in Tokyo with Canon up 2.3%, but Pioneer was under water after it warned of a Y130 billion net loss for the year ending March, extending its streak of loss-making terms to five years. The figure is wider than its earlier estimation of a Y78 billion loss, with the company pulling the plug on its money-losing flat panel television set business. Toyota was up 0.3% with its latest measures to deal with its slumping North American operations as vehicle sales tumbled no major surprise for the market. Miners slipped in Australia after recent gains, with base metal prices falling in London and the Baltic Dry Index - a key measure of demand in the shipping sector - down 3.2%, its first decline since January 19. There was also some selling after confirmation of the mega-deal between Rio Tinto and Aluminum Corp. of China, talk of which had supported the sector of late. Rio Tinto was down 2.7%. 'They've had a good run and there's going to be some short-term profit taking,' said Chris Blair, Patersons head of Sydney retail, though he expected the sector wouldn't fall far. Banks were perked up by ANZ's 7.6% gain, which came after it said it had no current plans to conduct a capital-raising; National Australia Bank added 1.3%, Westpac 1.6% and Commonwealth Bank 1.0%, with Macquarie 3.3% higher. HSBC was helping in Hong Kong, rising 3.0% after being a target of short-sellers in recent times. The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.8%, amid expectations Beijing would introduce more measures to support sectors including light industry and I.T.; 'February is a month rich with announcements of stimulus plans, and investors are taking advantage of the low visibility on the earnings front to test their luck,' said Huatai Securities analyst Chen Huiqin. Taiwan technology shares were on the rise with MediaTek up 4.6% and Hon Hai Precision up 3.1%, while Taiwan Semidonductor Manufacturing added 1.3%. New Zealand's NZX-50 was flat with Singapore's Straits Times index 1.0% higher, Malaysia's market up 0.6%, Philippines shares up 0.8% and Indonesian shares 0.3% higher. The U.S. dollar and euro were higher against the Japanese yen in quiet trade, as risk appetite was helped by the regional stock market gains. Traders were looking ahead to a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrialized nations in Rome, though foreign exchange was not expected to be a major topic. 'There are surely more pressing issues to be discussed and we expect key messages will contain calls against protectionism and a reiteration that all central bankers and lawmakers must do all in their power to deal with the current situation through use of fiscal and monetary policy. If that sounds bland, that is because it is,' said Societe Generale rates strategist Patrick Bennett. The dollar was at Y91.17, from Y90.86 late in New York, and the euro at Y117.47, from Y116.94, with the euro at $1.2885, from $1.2863. The Australian dollar ticked up to around US$0.6570 after the government brokered a deal with Nick Xenophon - the swing voter in a narrowly balanced Senate - to back its A$41.5 billion fiscal stimulus package, which was later passed by the Senate. Government bonds found some support in Japan despite the Nikkei's gain with lead March futures down just 0.01 at 139.29 points. Spot gold slipped $6.70 to $940.50 a troy ounce from New York after its overnight rally on safe-haven buying, but with the poor economic outlook underpinning the metal. 'Gold is starting to do what it should have six months ago. All the conditions are in place for a gold bubble to form,' said Southern Cross head of institutional dealing Charlie Aitken. Base metals were mixed with LME three-month copper up $45 from London at $3,460 a metric ton. There was a mild recovery in Nymex crude oil after its 5.5% drop in New York; the March contract was recently 60 cents higher on Globex at $34.58 a barrel. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
