HONG KONG: Hong Kong shares flitted in and out of negative territory on Tuesday to end the morning session 0.4 percent lower as investors waited for details on a U.S. bank rescue plan to emerge.  The main index looks set to snap a four-day rally that began last week after Shanghai stocks took off on signs of a faster economic recovery in China.  China's consumer price inflation fell to a 30-month low of 1 percent in January while its producer prices were 3.3 percent lower in January than a year earlier.  The data fanned speculation that Beijing may scale down the size of a much-anticipated interest rate reduction as the drop in inflation was the smallest in nine months, supporting earlier assumptions that China's economic slowdown may be starting to bottom out.  'While there is room for the central bank to move rates lower its not very important for the government any more as the economic conditions in China seem to be improving,' said Alex Tang, research director with Core Pacific-Yamaichi International.  The benchmark Hang Seng Index was 51.56 points higher at 13,717.50.  Mainboard turnover fell to HK$24.6 billion ($3.17 billion) from HK$27.6 billion by midday Monday.  The China Enterprises Index of top mainland firms dropped 0.5 percent to 7,716.48.  Power stocks underperformed after data on Monday showed a more than 13 percent decline in output in January, a fourth straight monthly drop, likely exaggerated by the week-long Lunar New Year holiday which fell in February last year.  Huaneng Power slid 3.8 percent while Datang Power gave up 2.1 percent.  Li &amp; Fung jumped 6 percent to HK$15.68 after a media report cited the company's president as saying the consumer products supplier was benefitting with the recession driving demand for low-price products.  Li &amp; Fung's Bruce Rockowitz told Bloomberg Television that the company, which is a main supplier to Wal-Mart and Target, was gaining market share.  China Southern Airlines fell 2.9 percent after the carrier said it planned to issue 2.3 billion yuan ($336.3 million) worth of A shares at 3.16 yuan a piece and $148 million worth of H shares at 1 yuan each to its controlling shareholder, raising capital for repayment of bank loans.  China's largest airline by fleet size will seek shareholder approval for its capital-raising plan at a meeting on Feb 26.  Shares in Jiangxi Copper rose 1.6 percent on Tuesday after Shanghai copper prices extended their rally into a sixth consecutive session as investors bet the economic slowdown would bottom out and stimulus packages would boost demand.  
