TOKYO: Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.6 percent on Friday, with tech shares and banks such as Mizuho Financial Group dragging on the market amid growing worries about a deepening US recession and worry about banks.  Bridgestone Corp skidded 7 percent after the world's top tyremaker posted an 86 percent fall in quarterly operating profit and forecast a bigger-than-expected slide this year as it grapples with weak demand and a stronger yen. But Kirin Holdings edged up after the Nikkei business daily said the Japanese beer maker has agreed to buy a 43.25 percent stake in a San Miguel Brewery Inc affiliate of Philippine foodmaker San Miguel Corp for about 100 billion yen ($1.06 billion).  Market players said the failure of exporters to gain after the dollar rose to a fresh 6-week high over 94 yen could become a problem if it continues into next week. 'The market really needs to make use of this weaker yen or there could be big problems next week. It's wasting this opportunity,' said Masayoshi Okamoto, head of dealing at Jujiya Securities. Investors fret about a stronger yen because it eats into exporter profits when they are repatriated. But others in the market said the cheaper yen this time was a symptom of broader problems.  'This time, the weaker yen isn't a good thing. It's part of a broader 'sell Japan' trend,' said Masayoshi Yano, senior market analyst at Meiwa Securities. The benchmark Nikkei shed 45.39 points to 7,512.26, while the broader Topix lost 0.1 percent to 750.67. U.S. investor fears that banks could be nationalised drove their stocks to a 17-year low, with the KBW banks index falling to its lowest level since 1992, led by a 14 percent slide in Bank of America shares.  Japanese banks slipped as well, with Mizuho Financial down 2 percent at 192 yen and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group down 0.9 percent at 435 yen. Technology shares were hit after a disappointing outlook from Hewlett-Packard Co dragged down other tech shares, with Kyocera Corp down 3.2 percent and TDK Corp down 0.9 percent at 3,370 yen. Bridgestone tumbled 7 percent to 1,259 yen, while Kirin gained 0.2 percent to 939 yen.  
