 Financials and mining stocks greased a slide in Canadian shares Tuesday, as fresh jitters about deteriorating credit in East Europe and a worse-than-expected slump in Japan's economy led global stock markets sharply lower. In Toronto, the benchmark S&amp;P/TSX (CA:ISPTX: news , chart , profile ) fell 226 points to 8,451. Last week, the index shed 3.2%. Declining stocks outpaced gainers by 901 to 466, while 269 issues were unchanged. On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) was recently off 288 points, or 3.7%, to 7,564, weighed down by Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Bank of America (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and J.P. Morgan Chase (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , all off nearly 10%. On the TSX, the financial sector was down 4.5%, with Manulife Financial (CA:MFC: news , chart , profile ) down 9%, while Royal Bank of Canada (CA:RY: news , chart , profile ) and Bank of Montreal (CA:BMO: news , chart , profile ) were both down nearly 4%. Mining shares also weighed, with the sector off 4%. Gold prices rallied on safe haven flows, but more growth-related metals such as copper slumped.  Shares of Teck Cominco (CA:TCK.B: news , chart , profile ) fell nearly 10%, and Uranium One (CA:UUU: news , chart , profile ) were off 3%, while Goldcorp (CA:G: news , chart , profile ) rose 5%. NEMI Norther Energy &amp; Mining Inc. (CA:NNE.A: news , chart , profile ) was off more than 9%. Crude-oil futures also slumped amid global economic concerns.  Among other Canadian energy stocks, Suncor Energy (CA:SU: news , chart , profile ) fell 5%. Also weighing on the benchmark index in Toronto, shares of Research In Motion (CA:RIM: news , chart , profile ) slumped more than 6% after the maker of the BlackBerry device said it's recruiting 3,000 new workers to keep up with demand, according to AFP. Nick Godt is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York.
