U.S. stock futures are trading sharply below fair value this morning, indicative of a negative start to the regular session of trading. A bit of reality is crashing down on Wall Street this morning, as U.S. automakers are up against a deadline to submit recovery plans, while Eastern Europe's banking meltdown could be a contagion for the rest of the region. In equity news, Wal-Mart Stores (WMT) reported a 7.5% drop in fourth-quarter profit, Amazon.com (AMZN) was upgraded at Standard &amp; Poor's, while Research In Motion Limited (RIMM) and Sirius XM (SIRI) were also in focus.  Checking in on currencies and commodities, the U.S. Dollar Index is up 0.84% at 87.38 pre-market activity, as the greenback attracts some safe-haven buyers. Gold is also garnering a safe-haven bid, with the April futures contract up $22.10 at $964.30 an ounce in London. Finally, crude oil futures are lower this morning, with the March contract off 12 cents at $37.39 per barrel in electronic trading.  Driving sentiment into the gutter on Wall Street this morning, Moody's issued a warning about exposure to Eastern European banks. 'East European countries have now entered a deep and long economic downturn, thus exposing West European banks' claims on East European institutions,' the agency added. Adding to the pressure, General Motors (GM: sentiment, chart, options), Ford Motor (F: sentiment, chart, options), and Chrysler are all scheduled to submit their recovery plans to the U.S. government by 5 p.m. Eastern today. Ex-Lazard banker Ron Bloom is expected to be named a key government adviser, The Wall Street Journal reported, and he is expected to be tough on the automakers.  In earnings, Wal-Mart Stores (WMT: sentiment, chart, options) said fourth-quarter profit fell to $3.79 billion, or 96 cents per share, from $4.1 billion, or $1.02 per share, last year. Revenue including membership and other income rose to $109.1 billion from $107.3 billion. The company said it expects first-quarter profit of 72 cents and 77 cents per share, and full-year profit of between $3.45 and $3.60 per share.  Standard &amp; Poor's raised Amazon.com's (AMZN: sentiment, chart, options) corporate-credit rating by 2 notches to BBB from BB+. 'The upgrade to an investment-grade rating reflects Amazon.com's strong brand, robust performance, and improved credit-protection metrics,' said David Kuntz, an S&amp;P credit analyst. The ratings firm also said the retailer has maintained solid performance during a difficult retailing environment. The outlook is stable.  Finally, Research in Motion Limited (RIMM: sentiment, chart, options) said it's recruiting 3,000 new workers to keep up with demand, AFP reported. And The Wall Street Journal said that Sirius XM (SIRI: sentiment, chart, options) is close to a deal with Liberty Media, which could claim nearly half the equity in the company. Earnings Preview  Today, Fossil (FOSL), Transocean (RIG), Agilent Technologies (A), and La-Z-Boy (LZB) are slated to step into the earnings confessional. Keep your browser at SchaeffersResearch.com throughout the day for more.   Economic Calendar  The economic calendar starts off slow this week, with only the February Empire State manufacturing index scheduled for release. On Wednesday, things heat up with January's housing starts, building permits, import/export prices, capacity utilization and industrial production, as well as the minutes from the most recent Federal Open Market Committee meeting. On Thursday, the Street must digest the January producer price index (PPI), the core PPI, January's leading economic indicators, the February Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index, and the weekly reports on U.S. petroleum supplies and jobless claims. We round out the week on Friday with the consumer price index (CPI) and the core CPI.  Market Statistics  Equity option activity on the CBOE saw 992,975 call contracts traded on Friday, compared to 722,403 put contracts. The resultant single-session put/call ratio fell to 0.73, while the 21-day moving average slipped to 0.75.  **The volume data shown above is from the Nasdaq and NYSE exchanges only. It does not include regional volume activity, which means that other daily volume quotes you see may be higher.** Overseas Trading  Overseas trading looks awful this morning, as none of the 11 foreign indices that we track are in positive territory. The cumulative average return on the collective stands at a loss of 2.69%. In Asian trading, financials such as Industrial Bank of Korea and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group led the decline on increasing concern that the global economic crisis would deepen. Within the financial sector, National Australia Bank fell 3.7%, Industrial Bank of Korea lost 5.2%, and Mitsubishi UFJ gave back 4%. Bank of East Asia was an exception, rising 2.2% in Hong Kong even though the bank reported a 99.1% plunge in 2008 profit. Finally, Australia's OZ Minerals surged 17% on a A$2.6 billion takeover bid from China's Minmetals, and PaperlinX doubled after confirmation it was selling its Australian Paper unit to Japan's Nippon Paper Group for A$600 million in cash.  Across the pond in Europe, the banking sector took yet another nosedive after Moody's issued a warning about exposure to Eastern European banks. 'East European countries have now entered a deep and long economic downturn, thus exposing West European banks' claims on East European institutions,' the agency said. The report named KBC, down 9.7%, Societe Generale, down 8.6%, Unicredit, down 5.5%, Raiffeisen, down 8.8%, and Erste Bank, down 7.4%, as 'the strongest and most widely present' lenders in the region. Outside of the banking sector, Daimler shares dropped 1.5% after swinging to a fourth-quarter net loss of 1.53 billion euros due to a sharp drop in sales at its Mercedes-Benz division and heavy losses linked to its stake in Chrysler.  The U.S. Dollar Index (DX/Y) fell 0.03% to 86.09 on Friday, as the greenback fell versus a majority of its foreign rivals, except the Japanese yen. However, the dollar remained relatively stable ahead of the outcome of the ongoing Group of Seven nations meeting. Against this backdrop, the euro rose to $1.28692, while the dollar rose to 91.86 yen.  The futures contract on the 30-year bond (US/1 - 126'09) fell 3 points on Friday, as Treasurys posted broad declines, pushing yields higher. Traders reacted negatively to Congress' progress toward passage of the $789 billion stimulus package. The bond market closed early on Friday, and remained closed on Monday in observance of the President's Day holiday.  Commodity Corner  Gold futures also reversed course on Friday, as investors rushed to lock in profits. After hitting a 7-month high on Thursday, the malleable metal shed $7, or 0.74%, to end at $942.20 an ounce. Nevertheless, February-dated gold finished the week with an impressive gain of 3%.   After 5 consecutive sessions in the red, crude oil futures finished last week on a positive note. Black gold rallied 10.4%, as short sellers rushed to cover their positions ahead of the March contract's expiration. By the closing bell, the front-month contract ended at $37.51 per barrel, a gain of $3.53 from Thursday's close. However, despite the journey higher, crude for March delivery finished the week 6.6% lower.   Unusual Put and Call Activity:  For an explanation of how to use this information, check out our Education Center topics on Option Volume and . A bull? A bear? Conservative? Aggressive? No matter what kind of investor you are, option trading offers you tools to enhance and protect your portfolio. Learn how from Bernie Schaeffer, the highly respected equities and option market veteran. Bernie's home study course will show you how to leverage relatively small amounts of capital into big profits -- in just 10 days. Includes CD, DVD, and other extras.   U.S. stock futures plunge on Eastern European meltdown
