    I.T. Matters Main page Columns Test Drive Features  I.T. Indicators News Ovum Research  Open House Bulletins RSS Services  RSS Audio BusinessWorld Wired   Advertising Subscriptions Corporate Bulletins  Wednesday, November 26, 2008   MANILA, PHILIPPINES  THE BUSINESS process outsourcing (BPO) unit of global banking giant JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. is looking at expanding outside Metro Manila and tapping so-called next wave cities for its subcontracting business.   The company said it was considering Bacolod, Baguio, Cebu and Iloilo, which will complement existing sites in Makati City. 'We are exploring second city options,' JPMorgan Chase Vice-President Barry E. Marshall told a forum yesterday. 'Just like any other [BPO] company in the Philippines, were looking at the next wave cities,' he added. Last year, the government and Business Processing Association of the Philippines released a list of cities outside the metropolis that can best support the growth of the BPO sector.   Mr. Marshall said outsourcing offices outside Metro Manila would provide 'contingency coverage' during an emergency.   He said having sites far from each other would allow the company transfer vital parts of its operations to different areas and ensure business continuity.   JPMorgan earlier said it would continue expanding here despite mounting concerns about a recession in the US. It said it would expand its card service operations to 2,400 employees by yearend. The companys Manila branch now has 2,700 employees. Its recently opened call center in Taguig has 1,400 seats.   JPMorgan is one of several global financial giants that have started to subcontract more work to the Philippines.   Last month, the American Insurance Groups outsourcing arm, AIG Business Processing Services, Inc., said it would more than double its employee base to about 3,000 with the opening of its new Alabang site in December, from 1,200 employees today.   Other banks that plan to expand their BPO operations are Citigroup and the German Deutsche Knowledge Services Pte. Ltd. 'We know how significant the BPO industry in the Philippines is, and we are very bullish [about] it,' Mr. Marshall said.   Aside from the Philippines, the company also has BPO operations in India, where it employs more than 10,000. The companys Manila office focuses on customer services for its credit card, home and auto financing businesses.   Also yesterday, executives from other BPOs attending the same forum shared JPMorgans optimism for the industry.   Ma. Christina G. Coronel, president of information technology BPO company Pointwest Technologies Corp., said the company had not experienced a significant slowdown in business activity. 'The outlook is still quite positive.' Last month, the company opened a P70-million, 2,600-square meter site, its second in the country. Like its older site in Makati, the new Quezon City office will employ 500 workers.   Pointwest is seeking to increase revenues by around a third this year to $14.5 million.   Like Pointwest, Accenture Philippines has yet to be affected by the slowing global economy, senior executive Mike Masterson said. 'We havent noticed any significant slowdown [as a result of the crisis],' he said. Accenture has more than 1,000 employees nationwide, serving clients primarily from the US.   The Philippines wants to corner a 10% share of the projected $130-billion BPO market by 2010. BPO was a $3.3-billion industry as of 2007, with 120 companies employing at least 200,000 workers.   
