WHAT'S the difference between a non-executive director and a shopping trolley? You can fill them both with grog and shove them around but you can't make a shopping trolley go where you want.  It's an old gag but a goodie. In defence of the 'independent' or non-executive director (NED), we rarely appreciate the good they do. If executives try to push through a rash deal or a hideous related-party transaction the independent director won't be feted in public for thwarting it.  But we do see the shockers.  And perhaps the biggest of the modern era was the decision by the board of Allco to approve the $260 million buy of Rubicon.  Despite presiding over this exercise in shareholder sadism, two former Allco executives, Rod Eddington and Barbara Ward, were rewarded with the chair of ANZ bank and a board seat on Qantas, respectively.  And along with Bob Mansfield they sat on the Allco related-party transaction committee that greenlighted Rubicon, not to mention $45 million cash for Allco directors David Coe and Gordon Fell, who held Rubicon shares.  The Allco NEDs could have forced them to take Allco scrip alone. They will say there was an independent report that found it was fair. But what is the point of a NED if the buck passes to a consultant they hired with shareholders' money?  NEDs and executives are the labour hired by shareholders who own the company. They are paid well to act for shareholders.  A NED in a top-100 company takes $120,000 for 12 board meetings and a chairman $350,000. The pay has doubled in five years as they complained of more responsibility and legal risk. The latter failed to appear except at James Hardie.  Eddington and Ward are said to be fine people; people make mistakes and both may serve admirably in their new roles. But the appointments beg the question: what does one have to do to get tossed out of the club?  Former James Hardie director Meredith Hellicar is on the AMP board despite presiding over the most bitter transaction in recent memory: the separation of James Hardie that left asbestos victims without funding.  Transurban chairman David Ryan was chair of the audit committee for ABC Learning. He remains despite a 34% vote against his re-election and a 59% thumping of Transurban's remuneration report.  The poster girl for non-executive forgiveness, Elizabeth Nosworthy, was on the boards of Ventracor, Commander, Babcock and Brown and Babcock and Brown Infrastructure yet was promoted to the chair of Babcock  albeit a role that would not have met with spirited competition from the Australian Club.  
