What's the difference between a non-executive director and a shopping trolley? You can fill them both full of grog and shove them around but you can never make a shopping trolley go where you want.  Yes, yes, it's an old gag, but a goodie nonetheless. In defence of the 'independent'' or non-executive director (NED), we rarely get to appreciate the good work they do.  If executives are trying to push through a hare-brained deal or a hideous related-party transaction the independent director will never be feted in public for thwarting it.  The public does, however, get to see the shockers.  And perhaps the pre-eminent shocker of the modern era was the decision by the board of Allco to approve the $260 million acquisition of Rubicon (see story earlier this week).  Despite presiding over this exercise in shareholder sadism, two former Allco executives Rod Eddington and Barbara Ward have been rewarded, respectively, with the chair of ANZ Bank and a board seat on Qantas.  Both directors, along with Bob Mansfield, sat on the Allco-related party transaction committee, which delivered the green light to acquire Rubicon, not to mention $45 million in cash for fellow Allco directors David Coe and Gordon Fell who were Rubicon shareholders.  In the least, the Allco NEDs could have forced the two to take Allco scrip rather than cash and scrip. They will contend there was an 'independent expert's report'' which found the transaction to be fair and reasonable.  But what is the point of a NED if the buck can be squarely passed to a consultant, a consultant the NEDs had hired anyway - with shareholders' money?  This takes us to the heart of the matter. The NED, and company executives for that matter, is hired labour, hired by shareholders who own the company. The role is to act in shareholder interests and they are paid handsomely for doing so.  The average NED in a Top 100 company takes $120,000 for 12 board meetings, while a chairman gets $350,000. The pay has doubled in five years as the NED lobby has complained about heightened responsibility and risk of lawsuits. The latter have of course failed to materialise except in the extreme case of James Hardie.  Both Eddington and Ward are said to be fine people. People make mistakes and both may well serve admirably in their new roles. But the appointments do beg the question, what does one have to do to get tossed out of the club?  Former James Hardie director Meredith Hellicar remains on the AMP board despite presiding over the most bitterly contentious transaction in recent memory: the separation of James Hardie which left asbestos victims without adequate funding.  
