A rival bid to Lloyds TSB's proposed takeover of HBOS could emerge after it was confirmed that talks have taken place about a possible alternative to the deal.  Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy has had discussions with Jim Spowart, the founder of Intelligent Finance.  Edinburgh-based HBOS is the subject of a proposed 12 billion merger with Lloyds TSB. But it has emerged that Mr Spowart contacted the Secretary of State for Scotland earlier this week to discuss the possibility of a group putting together a rival bid.  The two men were having further talks.  And Mr Spowart told the BBC: 'This is a genuine, genuine interest. I can't emphasise that enough at this stage and just let's hope for Scotland this is another alternative that we're able to look at.'  He also suggested the rival deal could keep more jobs and decision making functions in Scotland.  Mr Spowart said: 'What would attract myself to this would be that we'd keep the decision making in Scotland, or at least it would appear to keep the decision making in Scotland.  'It would keep the bank more or less intact, I can't guarantee the situation on jobs but I don't think there would be job cull at the same level as what is currently estimated or anticipated by Lloyds TSB.'  An estimated 17,000 HBOS jobs are based in Scotland and it is feared thousands will be lost if the merger with Lloyds TSB goes through.  Mr Murphy confirmed he had had talks with Mr Spowart and said: 'I have spoken to the Treasury and if there is a second serious bid then the Treasury would be happy to talk to them.'  Around the site  After thirteen months on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury Chris Seeby made a goal scoring return to action at Clarence Park on Monday night but was unable to save St Albans City Reserves from going down to a 4-1 Capital League Western Division defeat to Harrow Borough.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  Gordon Brown urged Gulf states to pump billions of dollars into struggling economies as he kicked off a tour of the region.  Roman Pavlyuchenko pounced on the stroke of full-time to give Tottenham a 2-1 win over Liverpool and lift them off the foot of Barclays Premier League.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  The firework display in Verulamium Park tonight will go ahead, despite the ongoing downpours.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  THE SKY above Verulamium Park will be illuminated by bursts of colour during tonight's fireworks display.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  
