Article from: AAP  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  CHILDCARE operator ABC Learning's newly appointed administrators have assured parents its Australia-wide 1200 centres will remain open.  The debt-stricken firm appointed administrators a day after it said it was in talks with the banks and the Federal Government to secure its future.  Employment minister Julia Gillard today confirmed the government had been briefed about the situation, and was in talks with the creditors.  The government has set up a task force to work through contingency plans to protect the 120,000 children and families who access the group's childcare services.  'The Australian government has been in discussions with creditors, particularly the banking syndicate of international and Australian banks who have appointed the receiver, to support continuity of service delivery to provide some comfort to parents and employees,'' she said in a statement.  The Liquor, Hospitality and Miscellaneous Union representing child care workers, today said ABC was too big a player in the childcare sector to leave its future to market forces.  LHMU national secretary Louise Tarrant said ABC Learning was so big it had become part of the economic infrastructure, warning the impact would be huge if its centres had to be shutdown.  'It is such an icon company and this is such an icon service, it's a key part of economic infrastructure. It needs more than a quick solution.''  'We absolutely want the government to guarantee that we've got entitlements and security of employment for workers,'' Ms Tarrant said.  ANZ Banking Group today said it had a credit exposure of about $182 million.  'ABC Learning Centres group was treated as a non-performing loan and an individual provision taken as part of ANZ's 2008 results,'' the bank said. 'ANZ will make further adjustments to provisions as required.''  Childcare Associations Australia said private and community operators are likely to express interest in acquiring ABC Learning's operations.  'CAA expects that both independent private and community providers with a strong track record in quality provision would have an interest in acquiring ownership or management of existing services.'  Peter Walker and Greg Moloney of Ferrier Hodgson have been appointed voluntary administrators of the Brisbane-based group.  'The action was taken following the directors' careful review of the company's future, ABC said in a statement.  The development sparked a nervous wait among parents, as ABC runs 1200 childcare centres across Australia and New Zealand.  ABC chairman David Ryan said the ABC board and management were 'disappointed to be in this position despite the efforts of so many staff and the continued support of parents'.  'The management team have worked tirelessly over the past few weeks to ensure that families across Australia and New Zealand continue to have access to quality childcare,'' he said.  ABC said that subsequent to the appointment of the administrators the company's banking syndicate had appointed Chris Honey, Murray Smith and John Cronin of McGrathNicol as receivers.  Trading in ABC's securities remains suspended. The shares last traded at 54 cents in August.  Earlier today, Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner said the Federal Government will not be involved directly in running the centres owned by the nation's biggest childcare provider.  However, he said the government had contingency plans ready should ABC be placed in receivership.  His comments came after debt-stricken ABC Learning said yesterday it was in discussions with stakeholders, including banks and the federal government to secure the future of its operations.  'I wouldn't imagine we would be directly running them,'' Mr Tanner told Fairfax Radio Network.  'Clearly one of the key things we have got to do is to make sure we minimise disruption to people with arrangements.  'We can't allow a situation to emerge when there's thousands of families around the country that depend on their childcare is suddenly taken away and no alternative.''  ABC Learning Centres had reassured the market and the parents of 100,000 children who use its 1,200 centres in Australia and New Zealand that talks were continuing to secure the company's future.  The company recently deferred reporting its annual results for the third time.  
