Allco Finance Group (Allco) has not revalued its assets since August despite its financial survival hinging on talks with its bankers who could decide as earlier as Wednesday whether to extend the troubled group's debt repayment schedule.  Allco confirmed Monday it has not breached its banking covenants after its shares were placed in a trading halt for two days, pending the outcome of 10 days of negotiations with its banking syndicate over $667 million of debt.  Allco spokeswoman Christine Bowen said the company was discussions with the banks but had not revalued its assets since August because of difficulties arising from the global credit crisis.  Foreign and investment banks comprise the banking syndicate, including local banks Commonwealth, Westpac, National Australia Bank and St George Bank.  Repayments of $304 million in senior debt owning to its 12-member banking syndicate, including offshore institutions, also would be made by June 2009 to reduce the company's gearing ratio of 75 per cent, Allco said in August.  Interest from offshore players had not translated into money in the bank, Ms Bowen said on Monday. 'There was certainly interest, but no third-party funds have been raised,' she said. 'Effectively the (offshore) markets have shut down and people prefer cash (investments).' Some parties had made 'unrealistic offers' to Allco as it attempted to offload a raft of non-core leasing and financial assets.  The assets have not been revalued since August, she said.  It is understood that Allco unsuccessfully approached sovereign wealth funds to provide funding.  In August managing director Mr David Clarke told AAP the company had net assets of $545 million, total assets of $2 billion and total liabilities of $1.5 billion.  Allco posted a $1.73 billion loss for fiscal 2008 - one of the Australia's largest corporate earnings losses.  Mr Clarke described the company as 'fragile' at the time, and said it would rely on upcoming asset sales and the favour of large, offshore institutions to repay $1 billion of debt.  The company has scrapped its investment banking business model and is transforming itself into a funds manager.  Allco's share price has fallen heavily since the global financial crisis began, from a high of $10.46 in August 2007 and closed at 14 cents on Friday.  Mr Clarke told Allco's annual meeting on October 23 that the company 'remained fragile' and had commenced talks with its bankers given the 'significant risk' it would not meet the November and December 2008 instalments on its senior debt despite continuing to meet interest payments.  Allco gave the banking syndicate, believed to be led by Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) until Friday, October 31 to advise on an extension. 'If the banks do not agree to an extension, the directors need to determine whether the business can continue as a going concern or appoint a voluntary administrator,' Allco said in a statement on October 24.  Allco directors believe there are good grounds for the extension given 'extreme difficulty' in conducting asset sales in the current environment, the company said.  Commonwealth Bank declined to comment on the matter.  2008 AAP Brought to you by 
