TONY O'REILLY'S decision to put APN News &amp;amp; Media on the block has renewed speculation about another debt-ridden media group, Ten Network's Canadian majority owner, CanWest.  Media analysts say the Canadian media company, which is controlled by the Asper family, could be the next to exit from the Australian market as it is struggling to deal with its own heavy debt load of $C3.7 billion ($4.5 billion) following the global credit meltdown.  Mr O'Reilly's Independent News &amp;amp; Media put its 39 per cent stake in APN up for sale late last week to cut its 1.4 billion ($3.3 billion) debt burden, with its bankers at Goldman Sachs JBWere and ANZ Bank hoping to create bidding tension despite the doom and gloom in financial markets.  Digby Gilmour, a media analyst at Citigroup warned that 'if CanWest are approaching refinancing, it is possible this type of scenario could also emerge for them'.  Macquarie Equities's Alex Pollak also noted that the Canadian company, with its 56 per cent in Ten, was in a similar capital-constrained position as O'Reilly's media empire. It has been tough sailing for CanWest, which also owns a stable of daily newspapers in Canada, one of that country's biggest TV networks and a stable of specialty TV channels such as Showcase.  Its shares have slid by 65 per cent over the past two months, hitting penny levels as concerns are mounting that it will struggle to service its debt in face of a looming advertising recession.  The company made a $C22 million loss in the first nine months of 2007-08 as its interest bill increased. And last week, the debt ratings agencies Moody's and DBRS started reviewing their credit ratings, warning that lower media earnings could put pressure on CanWest's lending covenants.  With liquidity stretched, 'it is more likely that CanWest will have to sell assets' in order to meet its commitments, Moody's said, warning the proceeds would probably come in below its expectations.  CanWest shelved a sale of Ten last year. Market sources said it couldn't find a buyer meeting its price tag of $3.10 a share, which the company has disputed. Its chief executive, Leonard Asper, said as late as June he was happy to ride out the storm and didn't 'need or want to sell.' Ten's share price closed at $1.40 yesterday, down 49 per cent since January. A spokeswoman, Jeannette McLoughlin, declined to comment on renewed speculation.  Analysts believe it would be difficult to find buyers for Ten, which has fallen in ratings this year and - as Australia's third-ranked network - is tipped to bleed the most in an advertising downturn.  Rupert Murdoch last week called Ten a 'disaster zone' and said buying the network would be like starting a new channel 'with limited upside'.  
