STATE cabinet has approved new laws designed to head-off compensation claims by businesses at Homebush Bay which suffer economic loss during five annual rounds of V8 Supercar races due to begin next year.   The Homebush Motor Racing (Sydney 400) Bill will create a Homebush Motor Racing Authority, a board and an implementation authority. The Homebush Motor Racing Authority will be the sole Government agency with powers to approve preparatory works ahead of the race from December 4 to 9 next year.   It would have powers to circumvent planning and environmental laws to ensure the controversial street racing at Sydney's Olympic Park could proceed without legal challenges, sources who have seen the draft bill said.   Many tenants at the site have leases with clauses guaranteeing quiet enjoyment but the bill is designed to prevent them seeking compensation for breaches of those clauses and for any loss of access to their premises in the lead-up to or during the event.   Homebush Bay tenants, including the Commonwealth Bank whose buildings house a call centre adjacent to the temporary track, have expressed concerns about the disruption but declined to make further comment before they had seen the bill.   Under the changes, the agency that normally runs the precinct, the Sydney Olympic Park Authority, will be stripped of virtually all power during this time.   Responsibility for hosting the race will rest with the Minister for State Development, Ian Macdonald, who will have powers to direct other ministers' agencies to take various actions if there is no agreement between parties in any dispute.   The minister and the new authority will have powers to delegate authority to others in relation to the annual race 'and other events', which may include entertainment events.   The bill gives the promoter, V8 Supercars Australia, legal care of the land during the race and suspends others' rights and obligations during that time.   V8 Supercars would have to comply with 'reasonable environmental conditions' to be determined by the authority, the sources said.   Mr Macdonald would not discuss any details of the bill or say why there was no provision requiring the race promoters to make good any damage, remove rubbish or leave the site in the same condition it was when they took it over.   In keeping with a Government commitment, public spending on the race is capped at $35 million, although there is no provision for it to withdraw support should the event fail to be 'one of the largest single sporting events in Australia', as the Government has predicted.   In an attempt to placate local opposition to the event, V8 Supercars chief executive, Cameron Levick, recently distributed letters to 10,000 resident advising them of the 'real facts' before embarking on community consultation.   Mr Levick forecast a crowd next year of 150,000 over three days.   The chief executive of the Sydney Olympic Park Business Association, Karen Grega, said she was unable to comment without seeing the bill but members were anxious to see the operational plan that would determine the movement of people and opportunities for trading during the race. 
