Business Editors/Technology Editors  REDWOOD SHORES, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 10, 2008--Saba Software, Inc. (NASDAQ:SABA), the premier people management software and services provider, today announced a reseller partnership with Hewlett-Packard's Education Services group. With more than a decade of experience in learning technologies, Saba currently provides scalable solutions and support for global enterprises based in more than 90 countries worldwide. Through this agreement, the company continues to expand the footprint for its industry leading people management solutions. 'Saba has a long track record in providing leading, global enterprises with scalable software and best practices for people management that can increase organizational productivity and improve business performance," said Bobby Yazdani, chairman and CEO of Saba Software, Inc. "We are pleased to work with HP to deliver robust, proven learning management solutions and expertise." The Saba Learning Suite is the most comprehensive solution available to address the strategic mandates of the learning organization-to deliver effective formal and informal learning that is tied to clear business outcomes and strategic people management initiatives. The Saba Learning Suite is availableOnDemand or on premise, and can help organizations develop and implement sales and channel readiness, channel certification, customer education, regulatory compliance, and corporate university programs.  About Saba  Founded in 1997, Saba (NASDAQ:SABA) is the premier global provider of strategic human capital management (HCM) software and services. Saba's people management solutions are used by more than 1,300 organizations and over 17 million end users worldwide. Saba's solutions increase organizational performance by aligning workforce goals with organizational strategy; developing, managing and rewarding their people; and improving collaboration.  Saba product offerings address all aspects of strategic HCM and are available both on-premise and OnDemand (www.saba.com/products). To ensure long-term customer success, our global services capabilities and partnerships provide strategic consulting, comprehensive implementation services, and ongoing worldwide support.  Saba customers include ABN AMRO, Alcatel-Lucent, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, BMW, Caterpillar, CEMEX, Cisco Systems, Daimler, Dell, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, EDS, EMC Corporation, FedEx Kinko's, Insurance Australia Group, Kaiser Permanente, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, National Australia Bank, Novartis, Petrobras, Procter &amp;amp; Gamble, Renault, Royal Bank of Scotland, Scotiabank, Singapore Ministry of Finance, Sprint, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanford University, Swedbank, Tata Consultancy Services, Wyndham International, Weyerhaeuser, Underwriters Laboratories, and the U.S. Army, U.S. Department of Health &amp;amp; Human Services, U.S. Department of Treasury/Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Navy.  Headquartered in Redwood Shores, California, Saba has offices on five continents. For more information, please visit www.saba.com or call +1-877-SABA-101 or +1-650-779-2791.  SABA, the Saba logo, Centra and the marks relating to Saba products and services referenced herein are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Saba Software, Inc. or its affiliates. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
