 SUNANDA CREAGH URBAN AFFAIRS REPORTER  THE Commonwealth Bank building in Martin Place, which inspired Australia's most famous money box design, could be in line for a makeover featuring shops, office space and a tower.  Colonial First State Global Management, the company that has long wanted to redevelop the building, had a breakthrough at the City of Sydney council last night, where councillors said they would be open to changing planning laws to allow a tower over the iconic building.  The building's owners submitted a development application in June that envisioned an extra 13 storeys over the existing building but that plan was scrapped after council planners said the proposal was too big and failed to address heritage concerns.  The company subsequently engaged the award-winning architect Richard Johnson to come up with a more sympathetic plan, which was circulated among councillors and staff this week.  The revised plan has not been made public but the Herald has learned it that it would involve fewer than the original 13 storeys.  'It would also restore the atrium through the middle of the money box,' the council's director of city planning and design, Michael Harrison, said. 'The setback from Pitt Street has also been reduced by about 10 metres.'  Councillor John McInerney, who is also an architect, said he would not support any redevelopment that negatively affected the heritage value of the 1916 building and was glad the company had dumped its original proposal.  'I was prepared to go to the barricades on this one but even I think [the revised plan] is OK.'  He said that the new design 'retained the heritage significance of the building'.  'The applicant should do more work but they have convinced the Central Sydney Planning Committee that there is merit in going forward with this concept.'  The proposal is so big the council would need to change its local planning laws to allow it.  A Greens councillor, Chris Harris, said the redevelopment could ultimately be rejected.  Richard Johnson and Colonial First State Global Management did not respond to the Herald's questions before deadline but the National Trust's conservation director, Graham Quint, said any change should be sensitive to the building's historic nature.
