: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Jon Ralph  RICHMOND yesterday announced its fourth consecutive profit as it declared its confidence in finding another major sponsor by Round 1.  The Tigers shored up their financial success by notching a $395,000 profit, before factoring in funding from state and federal governments.  The club declared a paper profit of more than $8 million, but almost all of that money will go into its Punt Rd development and the creation of an indigenous learning institute.  It is an excellent profit considering an extra $1.4 million was pumped into the football department this year.  While the Tigers are still searching for another major sponsor to replace AFG (Australian Finance Group), the club believes its future is still bright.  Richmond chief executive Steven Wright said the club was planning to make a profit next year, as well as find a major sponsor.  'We are certainly pleased, given the tough economic conditions. We have been able to increase spending in football significantly yet still record a profit. This keeps us on an even keel going forward,' Wright said.  'There seems to be a misunderstanding that we don't have a major sponsor. We do have a major sponsor in Dick Smith.  'We are looking for a second major sponsor and we have a number of excellent leads in that area.'  Wright said the prospect of having no replacement sponsor by Round 1 was unlikely.  'We are confident we will certainly have a partner by that stage. It's a tough climate but we are pursuing all options and we have certainly got a couple of good leads at the moment we are working through. We believe we can bring great value to companies,' he said.  As recently as this month the Tigers felt they had nailed down a major sponsorship with global insurance group AIG (American International Group).  It pulled the pin when the financial crisis hit, with the Tigers working hard to find a replacement.  Wright said the club had still budgeted for a profit next year, albeit a modest one.  The club has done well to turn around its finances, with the Tigers at rock bottom as recently as 2004.  In that year the Tigers lost $2.19 million.  Since then the profits have been strong, including 2005 ($40,000), 2006 ($948,000), and 2007 ($1 million).  
