-- Nimsoft Inc., the 'Big 4' alternative for IT performance and availability monitoring solutions, today announced the appointment of Dixon Fiske as vice president Americas. Fiske, a 20-year IT industry veteran, will lead the Americas sales operation. The appointment re-unites him with another top-performing former HP/Mercury executive, Tim Bisley, currently Nimsoft vice president EMEA. Both worked closely together for many years to develop and drive global sales models that fueled Mercury's impressive growth to over $1 billion in revenues prior to being acquired by HP.  'Dixon joins Nimsoft at a time of continued growth and development. His experience at Mercury and HP will prove invaluable in further accelerating an already strong business. Additionally, his proven partnership with Tim Bisley in shaping and honing high-performing sales teams is a clear advantage we can build on. The two complement each another well and will drive tremendous business opportunities across the Americas and Europe,' said Gary Read, president and CEO, Nimsoft. 'Our claim to be the alternative to the Big 4 is no idle boast. We have demonstrated this repeatedly over the past year. The fact we can attract someone with the caliber, experience and knowledge that Dixon possesses from HP is a further testament of our appeal and ability to deliver real value to customers in the performance and availability monitoring market.'Starting in 2002, Fiske's success with Mercury Interactive's Americas corporate sales division marked him out for a leadership position following HP's acquisition of Mercury in 2006. He assumed the position of vice president of HP Software Direct Americas, an organization which drives nearly half of HP's Americas software revenue. Leading that $660 million sales organization, Fiske consistently demonstrated the ability to successfully focus and motivate sales teams to over-deliver on revenue goals.'During my time at HP, we were increasingly aware of the impact Nimsoft was making in the performance and availability monitoring market. It was clear that prospects were becoming more and more focused on the value monitoring solutions could deliver and they didn't want lengthy, complex and expensive implementation cycles. When we came up against Nimsoft in new business opportunities it became clear that Nimsoft has an extremely compelling business and technology proposition that appeals to a broad spectrum of companies. Add the chance to work with Tim again and it was a no-brainer for me to join Nimsoft,' said Dixon Fiske, VP Americas.  Fiske's appointment follows Nimsoft's $12 million second round investment led by Goldman Sachs. He is the fourth senior HP/Mercury executive to join Nimsoft, reflecting the company's strong appeal and position in the performance and availability monitoring market.  About Nimsoft  Nimsoft is the fastest growing provider of next generation performance and availability monitoring solutions for the complete physical and virtualized IT infrastructure. The Nimsoft solutions redefine the standards for ease of use and speed of deployment -- providing outstanding return on investment and unparalleled customer satisfaction. Over 700 customers in 30 countries rely on Nimsoft solutions to monitor their IT based business applications and services. These customers include mid-market and global organizations, such as Barclays Capital and Amway Corporation, Bay Area Rapid Transit, Ladbrokes, MTU Aero Engines, TriNet, TRW Automotive, and hundreds of leading managed service providers such as CDW Berbee, Easynet and Rackspace Managed Hosting. For more information, visit www.nimsoft.com.  Nimsoft and the Nimsoft logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Nimsoft Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.
