Gordon Brown urged Gulf states to pump billions of dollars into struggling economies as he kicked off a tour of the region.  The Prime Minister arrived in Saudi Arabia after insisting that oil-rich nations should up their contributions to the International Monetary Fund.  Fears have been growing that the fund's 250 billion dollars reserves will not be enough to bail out countries hit by the credit crunch and global economic slowdown.  Some 30 billion US dollars has already been allocated to Iceland, Hungary and Ukraine with Pakistan signalling it could also need help.  Meanwhile, oil producing states have raked in an estimated one trillion dollars extra due to the recent spike in oil prices.  Speaking before departing for Saudi, Mr Brown said some of that cash should be pumped into the IMF. But he denied the West was having to take its 'begging bowl' as recession loomed.  'Everybody has got a part to play in solving this world downturn. I think the oil rich states will want to play their part,' Mr Brown said. 'Their interest is in a stable energy price and not in the massive volatility that we have seen, where oil prices have shot up and then come down again.'  Mr Brown said the talks may seem a long way from the concerns of hard-pressed families in the UK but they were actually crucial to recovery. 'What starts with negotiations in Saudi and elsewhere can end with far greater security and safety for families and businesses in Britain,' he said.  The premier - who is being joined during his visit by Business Secretary Peter Mandelson and Energy Secretary Ed Miliband - was holding discussions with Saudi ruler King Abdhullah over dinner.  Around the site  After thirteen months on the sidelines with a cruciate knee ligament injury Chris Seeby made a goal scoring return to action at Clarence Park on Monday night but was unable to save St Albans City Reserves from going down to a 4-1 Capital League Western Division defeat to Harrow Borough.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  Gordon Brown urged Gulf states to pump billions of dollars into struggling economies as he kicked off a tour of the region.  Roman Pavlyuchenko pounced on the stroke of full-time to give Tottenham a 2-1 win over Liverpool and lift them off the foot of Barclays Premier League.  THREE graduates with a great sense for business and an equally great sense for tasty food have launched the first Afro-Caribbean take-away in Hatfield.  The firework display in Verulamium Park tonight will go ahead, despite the ongoing downpours.  Agent 007 returns, all guns blazing, in Quantum of Solace, action-packed follow-up to Casino Royale, set in the immediate aftermath of the blockbusting 2006 film. The film opens with a spectacular car chase through the historic streets of Siena, in Tuscany, culminating in a pursuit over the rooftops which recalls the breathtaking Morocco sequence from The Bourne Ultimatum.  Adventurers and mayors of London have chosen this as their country pad, now its current owners are letting the property, writes Pat Bramley  THE SKY above Verulamium Park will be illuminated by bursts of colour during tonight's fireworks display.  X Factor charity song Hero received a boost when a leading retailer announced it was giving away its profits from sales of the single.  
