  15:31pm   Dollar closes lower  15:22pm   Chance to tackle govt over crisis  14:48pm   Economists tip another rate cut  14:31pm   Stocks almost neutral on RBA move  14:08pm   ConsMin latest miner to lay off workers  14:00pm   R&amp;amp;D spend on the up for WA: ABS  12:52pm   CommBank holds back on full rate cut  12:23pm   RBA cuts rate by 75bps  11:41am   Govt should bring forward tax cuts: ACCI  Perth property developer Kevin Pollock has been given a suspended three year sentence in the Supreme Court of Perth after being found guilty of fraud charges totalling over $3 million.  Below is the ASIC announcement:  Mr Kevin Pollock, director of Perth-based property developers, the Pollock Group, was today sentenced in the Supreme Court in Perth to three years and four months imprisonment, fully suspended recognisant on good behaviour for two years.  Mr Pollock faced fraud charges totalling over $3 million laid by ASIC. Mr Pollock was also fined $60,000.  Mr Pollock, of East Perth, was found guilty unanimously by a jury on nine charges following a three week trial and an ASIC investigation into a number of companies associated with he and his son, Jamie Pollock, of Perth.  The convictions relate to a revolving line of credit facility arrangement for $4.2 million dollars of hire purchase financing for heavy earthmoving equipment obtained from the National Australia Bank for a number of the Pollock Group companies.  Jamie Pollock was found not guilty on eleven fraud charges. The jury was unable to reach a verdict in relation to a further three charges.  ASIC will request the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions consider lodging an appeal following today's sentencing of Mr Pollock  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
