xposure at $762m  08:43am   Stocks fall after Wall Street dive  06:53am   Obama urged to tackle economy first  06:53am   Wall Street slides amid global rout  06:52am   Po Valley Energy gets new licences  06:52am   Today's Business Headlines  Commonwealth Bank of Australia today confirmed it has a debt exposure to childcare operator ABC Learning Centres of around $240 million, taking the total confirmed exposure of the major banks to an estimated $762 million.  Toy wholesaler Funtastic Ltd also said today its earnings could be adversely affected by ABC going into voluntary administration and receivership.  CBA today said its senior debt exposure to ABC, which was placed in receivership and administration yesterday, was around $240 million.  But the bank also also holds 4.456 million ABC hybrid notes, with a carrying value of about $220 million, following a $100 million write down of the value of the notes earlier this month.  ANZ bank said yesterday ABC owed it $182 million, Westpac Banking Corp said it had a credit exposure of about $200 million, and NAB confirmed a $140 million exposure.  Meanwhile, Funtastic said one of its subsidiaries, Judius Pty Ltd, had a contract with ABC's subsidiary, ABC Developmental Learning Centres Pty Ltd, for the supply of child care products to ABC centres in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.  The toy company, whose brands includes The Wiggles and Power Rangers, said the ABC's receivership could have an adverse impact on its earnings.  'The appointments of receivers and voluntary administrators to ABC Learning and certain of its subsidiaries could have an adverse effect on the earnings of Funtastic for the year ending December 31 and potentially future years' earnings,' Funtastic said.  'It is also possible that the potential effect could be material.'  Funtastic said it was not possible yet to quantify the potential effect, or to assess how material it might be.  Funtastic said its board had decided to conduct a detailed review of its exposure to ABC.  Funtastic expects to enter discussions with ABC's receivers and administrators to continue the contractual arrangements with ABC Development Learning Centres.  The receiver of ABC, Chris Honey of McGrathNicol, has assured parents that all of ABC's 1200 childcare centres in Australia and NZ will remain open.  The federal government says it's in talks with the company's creditors to keep the centres operating.  ABC Learning has 16,000 staff who care for more than 100,000 children across Australia.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
