Muhammad Amjad Hussain  advertisement  John Scheerhout  A MAN who laundered nearly 1m in drugs money has been jailed.  Detectives caught Muhammad Amjad Hussain, from Pakistan, red-handed on the way to a bank with a hold-all containing 4,000 of drugs money.  A raid on the flat he was renting in Longsight, Manchester, uncovered a suitcase with a further 110,000 in cash and bank paying-in slips for deposits totalling 744,170.  Hussain, 43, claimed he was a simple family man from a rural area near Lahore, who - used to rupees and dealing in cash - thought nothing of the vast sums he was depositing in bank accounts.  The father of three said his fee for making the deposits was 435.  Forensic analysis of the seized cash showed it had been in contact with a 'significant amount of cannabis'.  He was jailed for three years and eight months at Manchester Crown Court after admitting money laundering.  Nigel James, prosecuting, said Hussain travelled to Britain in June.  Officers from the Serious and Organised Crime Agency watched Hussain go from his flat in Meller Street, Longsight, to a Barclays branch in Levenshulme and pay in some cash.  Accounts  He later left the flat again carrying a black hold-all, in which detectives found two mobile phones and about 4,000 in cash.  Officers then searched his flat and found about 110,000, as well as six mobile phones, a fax machine, banking papers and lots of bank paying-in slips.  The paying-in-slips involved deposits of 744,170, paid into about 200 different accounts.  The cash had been in contact with a 'significant quantity of cannabis', said Mr James.  Hussain told police he travelled to Britain to deal in scrap metal and before his trip, he was approached by a man said to run a bureau de change in Pakistan to deposit the cash in Britain.  He said another man dropped a bagful of cash at his flat to deposit in accounts.  Mr James said the cash was 'no doubt the proceeds of the sale of drugs'.  Nicholas Rimmer, defending, said Hussain was 'not a sophisticated man' from an agricultural area in Pakistan 'where it's not unusual to deal with large amounts of cash'.  He will be deported to Pakistan after serving his sentence.  
