Over the past 10 years consumer demand for convenience and quality has grown considerably, and modern retail has been expanding fast in emerging markets such as Ghana, according to the Property Market Report 2008/2009 released by Broll in association with CB Richard Ellis.   The report is aimed at providing a snapshot of the South African commercial, retail and industrial property sector, and includes an African and global report.   The Ghanaian economy has been growing at an average of 5% a year for the past eight years. This, coupled with a commercial boom, has resulted in unprecedented retail growth. Most of Ghana's population of over 20 million is urbanised; a growing middle class with disposable income has created substantial demand for consumer goods.   Evidence of this is Accra Mall. The US$34 million project is a joint investment between Actis, a leading UK investor in emerging markets, and a local Ghanaian entrepreneur.   At 20 000m2 it is one of the largest and most modern shopping malls in West Africa. Launched formally in July, Accra Mall includes retail, health and beauty, entertainment and food as well as banking outlets and an 800-bay carpark. The project has as its anchor tenants Shoprite and Game and is already looking to expand in the near future.   Closely aligned to the South African property market, Namibia has experienced exceptional commercial and industrial growth over the past five years, says the report.   Although demand for office space is starting to slow, the retail and industrial sectors are still buoyant. More than 50% of Windhoek's retail and office trade takes place within the CBD area, and significant property investments have ensured that it has kept its status as the preferred destination for retail and office tenants.   Historically an agrarian and trading economy, relative political stability and the discovery of oil in recent times has led to significant growth in the property industry over the past six years. In particular, rapid growth of the ICT sector and financial institution reforms are opening up new opportunities.   Nigeria is Africa's most populous nation (2006 Census, 140 million) and growth, particularly in urban areas, puts the ratio of demand to supply for housing at almost 7 to 1, have created enormous opportunities for residential investors.   As Nigeria's commercial and industrial hub, commercial properties in Lagos have appreciated in value significantly, as there is limited supply and huge demand. Recent problems in the Niger Delta area have caused many multinationals to relocate to Lagos, which contributes to this demand.   Properties in Lagos command the highest rentals and prime commercial property yields have caught up with and look set to exceed residential yields. With the shortage of A-grade commercial buildings in Lagos and the demand for quality properties by particularly the multinationals, greenfield development, redevelopment and conversion of residential buildings into commercial is becoming popular.   Opening of the 20 000m2 Palms Shopping Centre has created new opportunities within what was previously a fragmented retail sector. Early acceptance and success of the project has initiated plans for a further extension to the mall.   Currently 80% of building materials and equipment are imported, but through the introduction of certain economic reform initiatives in Nigeria this figure is set to reduce. This will in turn reduce development costs and improve capital yields.   The Tanzanian property market has experienced a definite upswing in the past three years driven in particular by an inflow of foreign investors.   Demand for office and industrial property is at an all-time high but supply in prime areas is almost non-existent. When space does become available, it is taken up quickly.   A number of new developments are on the cards. These include Celtel's new headquarters on Ali Hassan Mwinyi Road; Actis - Barclays House - 10 000m2 of commercial office space with some groundfloor retail, and Exim Bank - a new multi-storey commercial office block in the middle of the CBD.   There are large tracts of land available, but between the airport and CBD (Pugu Road) sites are now valued at around $1m an acre, which means prices have more than doubled in the past three years.   On the retail front, with the exception of Mlimani City, Sea Cliff Village, Msasani Slipway and a few others, most retail space is not yet 'formalised' in Tanzania. Shopping malls are certainly required to service the emerging middle class, and the retail market should experience good growth in years to come.   New centres are being developed to address this shortage with 14 000m2 under construction on Garden Road and a new 'trade centre-type' retail development of almost 40 000m2 on Pugu Road.
