Prime Minister-elect John Key has been allocated a prime spot on the agenda at the Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation summit in Peru to deliver what could be one of the event's most important speeches.  But it seems business leaders don't regard the opportunity with the same enthusiasm.  At this week's Apec CEO Summit - a meeting of world business leaders which precedes the main political meeting - Key will provide the opening address to the session on the global financial crisis and its implications for the world's economies.  It's an ideal platform to showcase his grasp of financial markets and global economics and project himself as a statesman alongside some of the region's most important politicians.  It also trumps the rather more pedestrian topics to be covered by other leaders.  For example, US President George W Bush will deliver a speech to the session on 'What Apec can do to strengthen the Asia-Pacific community,' while Australia's prime minister Kevin Rudd will address the session on 'growth, equity and sustainable development'.  For an incoming prime minister it is an opportunity too good to be missed, which may explain Key's eagerness to have his new government in place in time for him to get to Peru.  But while Key may be eager, New Zealand's own business leaders are not rushing to follow in his footsteps.  Only 10 New Zealanders will be attending the CEO summit Key will address and only five of those are running companies. The rest are mainly a mix of academics such as Robert Scollay, the director of the Apec Study Centre at the University of Auckland, or representatives of business lobby groups such as Alasdair Thompson, the chief executive of the Employers &amp;amp; Manufacturers Association.  ASB Bank chairman Gary Judd said he was not sure what to expect from the Apec summit.  'I've never been to one of these before so I'm a bit in the dark as to exactly how they are going to work and what I may get out of it,' he said.  'I thought it would be useful for me to gain a perspective on what was happening around the world in relation to the financial situation.  'If it transpires that it's useful, I may want to go to subsequent ones, or it may turn out to be a dead loss, in which case I won't.'  It was to have been the first Apec summit for Ports of Auckland chief executive Jens Madsen. But was forced to cancel his trip on Friday because of threatened strike action at the port. He had hoped it would give him a better understanding of the effect a prolonged financial crisis could have on the flow of trade around the Pacific, a critical issue for a port company.  He also saw it as a good opportunity to interact with other chief executives from Apec countries - something Chris Hawley, the director of International Relations and Development at AUT believes New Zealand executives didn't rate highly enough.  Hawley's trip to Peru for Apec is being paid for by the Foreign Affairs &amp;amp; Trade Ministry because of his role as Latin America-NZ Business Council chairman.  Hawley said business people in other countries, particularly Asia, put a strong emphasis on building relationships and business networks and saw events such as Apec as a good opportunity to do that.  
