Jones Lang LaSalle is targeting investors who need to make a fast sale to appease their banks, writes Dick O'Brien.Irish investors in British commercial property who have been hit by the downturn in the market and are under pressure from their banks are being targeted by a new service from estate agent Jones Lang LaSalle, which offers the potential for a quick sale via auction.  According to John Moran, director of capital markets in Ireland for Jones Lang LaSalle, a number of Irish investors have already opted for a rapid-fire sale through the service, which is offered by the firm's integrated realisation team. He anticipates that larger numbers will go the same route over the coming months. The main target market are people who have invested in property over the past few years but who have since run into financial difficulties, and the initiative is mainly focused on the small end of the market. ''This is not aimed at people who spent 20millionto 50million.It is for the people who bought high street shops in market towns in Britain and spent a couple of million," said Moran.To date, the properties sold via the service have been spread across Britain and include a variety of smaller retail and business premises. At this stage, some of these investors will need their equity back to finance other needs, or will be coming under pressure from their banks to start repaying money. ''It is really just designed to give them quick, cost-effective access to the market,'' Moran said.Jones Lang LaSalle generally runs between six and seven auctions a year and the next sale will take place on December 11, with the cost of including a property in the catalogue set at 1,500. To date the company has sold a number of properties on behalf of British institutions, in particular banks. In some cases, this involves banks disposing of property on a sale and leaseback basis in order to raise cash in the wake of the credit crunch. Barclays and HBOS are just two examples of institutions that have pursued this strategy.''However, increasingly, we are now seeing a lot of foreclosures. Effectively the banks are telling owners that they want them to sell properties," said Moran. ''In the case of Irish investors, they probably decided to buy something nice a few years ago but it has now gone underwater and the banks want their money back. This is where we see the big pick-up in the market coming from."Just how much of a hit investors are taking from such quick disposals depends on when they originally bought their property. Anyone lucky enough to have bought four to five years ago will probably see themselves back where they started. However, those investors who bought in the last couple of years are generally looking at minimum losses in the region of 25 per cent. ''Any of the recent entrants to the market are taking a hit," said Moran.''You can anticipate that they probably borrowed to buy and were geared to around 80 per cent, which means that they have probably lost their equity, and there would be nothing unusual about that at this point in time." Moran said that going by recent auctions, about 80 per cent of the properties on offer generally sell on the day, with the remainder tending to sell quickly thereafter.''The key to it is getting the price right," he said. ''We are believers that if you price something correctly and that it represents a reasonable deal, then it will sell." Not surprisingly, with cash-strapped investors desperate for a sale, interest has peaked among many buyers looking for bargains.''It is private investor stuff, so you will see a lot of successful Indian and Israeli businessmen at the auctions, along with canny older English investors, all of whom would have been out of the market for the last couple of years and are now coming in to have a look around and see where they can pick up bargains," Moran said. It is also not uncommon to see Irish investors lurking in the auction room.''Nobody knows where the bottom of the market is. Britain has adjusted quite quickly in comparison to here - in Ireland we are probably only seeing the value adjustment now that has been happening in Britain since the final quarter of last year. The average yield on stuff that sold at auction there is approaching 7 per cent, so it is starting to look like good value,'' Moran added.Despite Jones Lang LaSalle seeing the concept as successful in Britain, the company does not have plans as yet to undertake any similar initiative in Ireland. Traditionally, auctions have been the preserve of residential sales and, with the sole exception of Georgian office accommodation, commercial property has not sold well under the hammer.  Moran believes that this is because buyers tend to be more cautious in Ireland. While they would have no problem being spotted in a hotel in London, it is a different story in Ireland, when they could find their competitors sitting next to them in the auction room.''It would not work over here unless you were being very clear about it and specifically marketing it as a distressed bunch of properties, in which case the quickest and easiest route to market would be an auction. While we are not there yet, that is certainly a possibility for next year,'' Moran said.
