/PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- - Watch out for Opportunistic Thieves This Wintry Weekend  Organised car thieves will be roaming the streets this weekend looking for innocent motorists attempting to defrost their cars, warns Swinton ( http://www.swinton.co.uk/).  Britain is facing a Baltic cold snap this weekend with the Met Office warning that we could face temperatures as low as minus 10degreesC on Saturday.  Motorists who leave their cars unattended to de-ice windscreens give thieves an open invitation and worse still, invalidate insurance policies says the UK's leading high street car insurance ( http://www.swinton.co.uk/car/) retailer, Swinton.  Steve Chelton, Insurer Development Manager at Swinton said: 'We are predicting a hike in these type of attacks during the cold snap this weekend. On frosty days it's incredible how many drivers leave their car running and nip back inside to finish getting ready - an open invitation for thieves.  'Last week in Manchester a gang who call themselves 'The Ice Bandits' were arrested over the theft of more than 40 cars which had been left running by their owners!'  Last year, Swinton ( http://www.swinton.co.uk/) saw a 20% hike in the theft of cars by opportunistic ice-bandit type thieves.  Scotland and North Yorkshire are set to experience the coldest weather this weekend with London and the South East also in line for wintry conditions. Swinton is urging all drivers across the UK to take care this weekend.  On frosty winter mornings Swinton recommends that motorists use de-icer and a purpose-made ice scraper to clear the windscreen.  About Swinton  - With 470 branches nationwide Swinton is the largest high street insurance broker. - Unlike many other companies in the financial services industry, Swinton is committed to keeping its branches open for business, and part of the community. - Swinton provides a one-stop-shop for the insurance and related needs of its clients, offering home, car, caravan, business, holiday, motorbike and even classic car insurance - With a dedicated team of advisors on hand at every branch to search a panel of insurers to offer quality cover at competitive rates  For further information please contact Anoushka Foster or Lucy Oates at SKV PR on Tel: +44-(0)161-838-7770 or email: lucy.oates@skvpr.co.uk  SOURCE Swinton  Copyright (C) 2008 PR Newswire. All rights reserved  Top stories  5:03 PM 11/18/08  7:02 PM 11/18/08  6:03 PM 11/18/08  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2008 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
