KERRY Stokes' Seven Network is believed to be one of the parties eyeing APN News &amp;amp; Media, and is considering using its $1.2 billion in cash to expand into radio and outdoor advertising following the debt-ridden Independent News media group's decision to quit the business.  Seven has been working with Macquarie Group investment bankers over the past few weeks seeking to put together a consortium, market sources said yesterday. They said the pair has been approaching other possible bidders who would take on APN's newspapers in Australia and New Zealand.  Seven declined to talk about its intentions yesterday, or comment on the market talk. 'We can only note that Seven Network Limited has no debt, $1.2 billion in the bank and patience on its side in any equation that's considered on media in Australia,' a spokesman said.  A deal is far from certain. Independent News is believed to have put an initial price tag of $4 a share on its 39% stake  a hefty 66% premium to APN's closing price before the review was announced saying the stock was oversold. That would value APN at $1.96 billion without debt.  APN shares surged 23.7% to $2.98 yesterday.  Analysts said the Irish company would struggle to find a buyer to meet that price in the face of the credit crunch and APN's unclear profit outlook.  Independent is also a forced seller, looking to leave Australia after 20 years to reduce its 1.4 billion ($A2.7 billion) debt to less than 600 million.  Citigroup's Digby Gilmour, who values APN at $3.07 a share, looking at the sum of its business parts, said that price would be 'more realistic'.  He said offshore buyers could be likely partners. Independent News, which is dominated by Irish newspaper tycoon Tony O'Reilly, has appointed Goldman Sachs and ANZ Bank to garner more expressions of interest over the next weeks, with a data room expected to be opened by January. The sale might take up to six months and could require shareholder approvals if a single bidder agrees to take up more than 19.9%, which would require a takeover offer to all shareholders.  APN chief executive, Brendan Hopkins has stood aside from Independent's board, having to seek a good outcome for the Australian company. APN will give a trading update late next week.  Lachlan Murdoch has also been looking at APN, but sources said he was unlikely to compete with a cashed-up bidder like Seven even if he was to renew his association with buy-out firm Providence Equity Partners, which was involved in APN's failed privatisation for $6.20 a share last year.  Mr Murdoch has been looking at available media assets in Australia as he seeks to start his own empire following the collapse of the proposed buy-out of Consolidated Media Holdings in April.  Fairfax Media is believed not to be interested in APN, having about $500 million in cash and undrawn credit facilities and not wanting to take on further debt with the uncertain economic outlook.  
