HEAVY institutional voting support through pre-poll proxies is expected to see St George Bank's historic $16 billion merger with 'Big Four' competitor Westpac sail through at today's special shareholder meeting.  St George's large number of retail investors - about 150,000 - are also set to back the deal which requires a 75 per cent majority of votes.  The merger, the largest in the banking sector for at least 10 years, will see the country's third and fifth biggest banks by sharemarket capitalisation combine to become the largest.  Shareholders will gather at the Sydney Convention Centre in Darling Harbour this morning for what will be the culmination of a scheme of arrangement process that began in May with Westpac's opportunistic swoop on St George in the first wave of the global credit crisis.  The transaction - based on a 1-for-1.31 share swap in favour of St George's shareholders - has remained largely undisturbed over the past seven months despite the upheaval in world financial markets.  Westpac has had a straight run at St George as the liquidity turmoil put paid to any competing bid from both National Australia Bank and ANZ, its two most likely domestic competitors, or a large overseas institution.  And that was despite the Dragon keeping the door open for a higher offer, having stated all along that its unanimous recommendation was subject to no superior bid emerging.  St George will confirm today that it did not receive another approach to even consider knocking Westpac out of the way.  Support for the deal has also grown in recent weeks after the sweetening of the original terms under which Westpac agreed to allow St George to declare a one-off special dividend of 31c a share - equivalent to the entire earnings growth in the bank's profits this year to $1.32 billion.  That is on top of the final 94c dividend it declared for its second half.  The one-off payment is equal to 1 per cent of the total offer price, and while the top-up is small, it has gone some way to accelerate the push for the merger which will see St George shareholders owning 30 per cent of the combined bank.  St George directors will also take three of the seats on the board of the revamped Westpac group, led by the chairman, John Curtis, who will become deputy chairman if the vote is overwhelmingly approved as expected. Westpac will then move quickly to take formal control of its new subsidiary with the handover date now set for December 1.  That will also signal the end of St George's independence as a financial institution which began as a small Sydney building society in the 1930s before becoming a bank in 1992.  Its operations now extend to Victoria, South Australia and Queensland, in addition to its presence in NSW.  
