Top 20 Placement in 2008 INNovators Award Chicago, IL (PRWEB) October 29, 2008 -- Insurance News Magazine, a SourceMedia publication, named Richard Cantu, president of Texas Health &amp;amp; Life, one of the Top 20 finalists for the 2008 INNovators award, which recognizes insurance industry innovations. Cantu received the designation for his use of sales automation technology from Norvax to create a top-producing one-agent office -- out of his home. Initially working out of a spare closet, Cantu built a business that closed an average of 40 new policies each month, a volume that matches many mid-sized agencies. Richard's innovative vision and effective use of Norvax sales automation tools have been so impressive that we've invited him several times to speak with our clients The INNovators Award is a special designation intended to advance the spread of business technology use and expertise in the insurance industry. According to INN, 'The 2008 winners were determined to have led or contributed to a business application innovation or project anywhere in the insurance industry supply chain that uses technology to successfully drive business impact, technical impact or the innovation itself.' Other nominees to make the Top 20 list include insurance industry innovators such as Aon, AIG and Geico. The nominations were reviewed and judged by a panel that included INN's editors, members of the INN Board of Advisers and other insurance industry leaders. Holli Gronset, Insurance Networking News' associate publisher, remarked, 'These winners did not accomplish their INNovations in a vacuum. Many are dependent on technology solutions and consulting services to achieve their goals, and those technology providers played a key role in fostering their successes.' For more information about the Norvax suite of technology solutions for health insurance agents, brokers and carriers, visit www.Norvax.com or call 1-866-466-7829 ext 1. Contact:Joy Scott Scott Public Relations818-610-0270 joy@scottpublicrelations.com ABOUT NORVAXNorvax Inc. is a leading developer of Web-based sales and customer communication tools that connect and help consumers, insurance brokers, agents and carriers transact health insurance business more efficiently. From tools for building health insurance lead-generating websites to health insurance quote engines and email autoresponders that can automatically include updated health insurance quotes, Norvax's health insurance technology lets agents increase sales, cut administrative time and reduce expenses by initiating customer contact faster and automatically maintaining around-the-clock communications with prospects. Founded in 2001, Norvax was named among the Top 20 fastest-growing software companies in the U.S. in both 2007 and 2008 by Inc Magazine. Norvax is privately held and headquartered in Chicago. 
