Toy wholesaler Funtastic Ltd, which has a supply arrangement with ABC Learning Centres Ltd, says its earnings could be adversely affected by the childcare operator going into voluntary administration and receivership.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd (CBA) also said Friday that its senior debt exposure to ABC was around $240 million.  Funtastic said that one of its subsidiaries, Judius Pty Ltd, had a contract with ABC's subsidiary, ABC Developmental Learning Centres Pty Ltd, to exclusively supply child care products to ABC child care centres in Australia, New Zealand and the United States.  The toy company, whose brands includes The Wiggles and Power Rangers, said the receivership and administration could have an adverse impact on its earnings. 'The appointments of receivers and voluntary administrators to ABC Learning and certain of its subsidiaries could have an adverse effect on the earnings of Funtastic for the year ending December 31 and potentially future years' earnings,' Funtastic said. 'It is also possible that the potential effect could be material.' Funtastic said it was not possible yet to quantify the potential effect, or to assess how material it might be.  Funtastic said its board had decided to conduct a detailed review of its exposure to ABC.  Funtastic said it expected to enter discussions with ABC's receivers and administrators to continue the contractual arrangements with ABC Development Learning Centres.  Meanwhile, CBA said its senior debt exposure to ABC was around $240 million.  CBA said it also holds 4.456 million ABC hybrid notes.  Following the $100 million post tax write down of these notes, announced on October 8, their carrying value is around $220 million, CBA said.  The receiver of ABC, Chris Honey of McGrathNicol, has assured parents that all of ABC's 1200 childcare centres in Australia and NZ would remain open, while the federal government says it's in talks with the company's creditors to keep the centres operating.  ABC Learning has 16,000 staff who care for more than 100,000 children across Australia.
