From cradle to grave in four years. Rubicon is the textbook case on how to make connections, make a killing and get away with it.  The Rubicon life cycle: exploit big end of town contacts to establish asset management company, float three externally-managed trusts on the stock market, attract some friendly press, use equity to raise debt, use both to embark on a property-spending spree, devise a baffling array of special vehicles, rip out as many fees as possible as often as possible and as large as possible, conduct critical unit-holder meetings on the cusp of Christmas, keep stock prices up with share buy-backs, sell down personal trust holdings, then the piece de resistance - flog the operation into Allco using board connections before the market tanks.  Thanks to the Allco deal, the men behind Rubicon pulled out $64 million in cash. They may have already snipped another $50 million to $150 million in fees.  National Australia Bank appointed receivers to Rubicon Holdings on Friday. Rubicon Holdings owns Rubicon Asset Management, which is in turn the manager of the three disgraces Rubicon Europe, Rubicon America and Rubicon Japan. All three are listed on the stock market.  NAB has a $20 million exposure to Rubicon Holdings and $170 million in loans to the three listed trusts.  How did it happen?  Rubicon's founder Gordon Fell was a tad late hopping on the financial engineering bandwagon. Though the former executive of Schroders and later Ord Minnett, not to mention chairman of Opera Australia, did not waste a second once he was aboard.  Together, the three trusts accumulated assets worth more than $5 billion in little over two years. At their peak, their combined market value was $1.2 billion. For the year to June 2007 alone, Rubicon Asset Management, the private entity owned by Fell, Coe and Matthew Cooper, gouged $120 million in fees.  Slick operation  It was a slick operation. The Rubicon trusts were spruiked to the market as a safe investment in property boasting a high yield. Such was the sophisticated structuring and presentation, concocted by Fell and his lieutenant Cooper, that retail investors were easily duped. Continued...  
