- Summary of Operating Results  (NYSE Alternext US:IAO) announced the following consolidated results for the three months ended September 30, 2008, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2007:   The company announced the following consolidated results for the six months ended September 30, 2008, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2007:   Key Accomplishments/Items During the Quarter  1. Repositioned capacity to a second major insurance customer and to its rapidly growing credit card business.   2. Global Hotline, Inc. has commenced work for a new client, a major European insurance company.   3. Management has acted quickly to implement operating expense reductions, including a scaling back in new hires.   The companys CEO, Derek Schneideman, said, At a macro level, the deepening world-wide financial crisis is impacting the Companys revenue and profit projections. Therefore, the Company has revised its annual revenue guidance to $64 million, an increase of $25.3 million or 65% over the prior year. The combination of the measures we implemented in late in the September 30, 2008 quarter, at both subsidiary and corporate levels are expected to be reflected in a return to profitability in Q4 for Global Hotline, Inc., if not the entire Company. Looking to the future for FY2009/10, we expect to generate approximately $1.8 million at the corporate level from dividends from our equity investments, profits from Global Hotline Philippines, Inc. and from management service agreements from our subsidiaries.   We are meeting the challenges of this, almost unprecedented, economic downturn with a thorough restructuring of all our operational costs, and a greater emphasis on those business operations most likely to produce revenue, cash, and profits. We expect to make some use of our shelf registration statement to raise new capital to sustain and, where prudent, to expand operations of our Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) business units. To date, the shelf registration statement has not been utilized. We remain dedicated to the transformation of IA Global from our current structure into a Services focused corporation comprising 3 business divisions, i.e. BPO, Financial Services and, in the future, B2B Services. To reinforce this ongoing change in the Companys business model and to create greater brand equity management is evaluating the merits of changing the Companys name and its stock symbol. Additionally, in order to achieve our mid-term ambitions the company will divide itself into two functional business divisions, BPO (including Human Capital Services) and Financial Services. The Financial Services Division will be lead by an experienced financial services executive. An announcement regarding this new position will be made shortly. The end goal of the Financial Services Division will be to build an independent business entity that, at a future point, can be spun-off from the Company by way of a public listing or a private sale.   At the business unit level we are disappointed by the sudden drop in Global Hotline, Inc.s Q2 revenues caused by the near collapse of AIG and its effect on the insurance industry as a whole. Aggressive action has been taken to rectify any negative impact on Global Hotline, Inc.s forecasted results. To this end we have revised our sales projections by eliminating any forecasts of new large Q4 orders such as have occurred in most prior years. On a positive note, Global Hotline Philippines is experiencing a growing demand for its outsourced services as companies, worldwide, seek to reduce both their cost of goods sold and operational expenses. Our minority investment in Taicom Securities, has grown more slowly than anticipated due to the adverse economic climate, however, Taicom has recently started to increase in pace and we are confident that this business will add significant value to the Company in the coming fiscal year. The combination of the actions we have taken, and those actions we will take in the future, are aimed exclusively at protecting and enhancing shareholder value and to ensuring the Company as a whole is well positioned for a turnaround in market conditions.   In support of the Companys cost reduction activities commencing on December 1, 2008, I will no longer accept any bonus payments that may be due under my compensation package. I will continue this policy until we have seen an improvement in our stock price and the Board of Directors feels that the Company is tracking to its mid-term business goals, the companys CEO, Derek Schneideman stated further. About   (IA Global) is a broadly based Services Company with a dedicated focus on growth of existing business, together with expansion through mergers and acquisitions in the Pacific Rim region. Our mission is to identify and invest in business opportunities, apply our skills and resources to nurture and enhance the performance of those businesses across key business metrics, and to deliver accelerating shareholder value.   To realize this plan, the Company is actively expanding investments in the business process outsourcing (BPO), this also includes the human resources and human capital elements necessary to recruit and train the very large numbers of people necessary to transact BPO, B2B and financial services sectors. These sectors demonstrate long-term growth prospects in which we, by applying our skills and resources, can add significant value to our investments. Beyond Japan, the Company is expanding its reach to encompass, the Philippines, South East Asia and the outstanding growth opportunities and synergies these markets present.   In Japan, IA Global is 100% owner of Global Hotline, Inc., a Business Process Outsourcing organization, operating several major call centers providing outbound telemarketing services for telecommunications and insurance products. Since our acquisition of Global Hotline in June 2005, this business has expanded rapidly with the signing of significant multi-year contracts with major corporations.   In the Philippines, IA Global is the 100% owner of Asia Premier Executive Suites Inc. and Shift Resources Inc., companies that have now been merged into a single company named Global Hotline Philippines Inc.   In the Asia Pacific region, the Company has equity investments of 25.0% in GPlus Media Co Ltd, 20.25% in Slate Consulting Co Ltd, 36.0% in Australian Secured Financial Limited and 20% in Taicom Securities Co Ltd. These organizations provide services, value-add investor relations services, capital raising and other income to  
