Nortel(1) (TSX: NT)(NYSE: NT) is opening a new office in Lagos, Nigeria to meet increasing demand for communications in Western Africa. The new Lagos office will enhance Nortel's presence in the region where the Company also has offices in Johannesburg, Algiers, Tunis and Cairo.  Ovum forecasts that Africa will add another 200 million telecoms customers by 2013 to the existing 370 million, and over half of this will come from the Western Africa region. 'End user demand on this scale will require considerable infrastructure investment by service providers, many of whom face challenges in balancing network capacity with growing demand' says Angel Dobardziev, practice leader, Emerging Markets, Ovum.  'Western Africa, including Nigeria, is one of the top 10 fastest growing mobile markets in the world,' said Michel Clement, vice president, Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa, Nortel. 'Growth is fuelled by investments in the region's energy producing infrastructure and effective communications plays a major part in economic development and investment progress. Nortel is strongly committed to our customers in Western Africa and the opening of our new office in Lagos will help us serve this region in a faster and more efficient manner.'  The recent visit to Lagos by Darryl Edwards, president, Nortel EMEA, to meet customers also highlights the importance of the Nigerian market for Nortel. 'There is unparalleled investment in the Nigerian telecommunications market driven mainly by the market demand for wireless services,' says Edwards. 'Nortel's carrier and enterprise business are also showing significant growth in the country. The new office in Lagos shows that Nortel is firmly established in Nigeria and will allow us to address customer needs directly in-country.'  Nortel has been active in Africa since the 1980's, working with carriers, service providers, governments and enterprises to deliver services and solutions, designed to reduce the complexity of communications for its customers. Customers include Sun International, ABSA/Barclays, BHP, Telecom Egypt, Maroc Telecom, Chevron, Exxon Mobile, Sonatrach, Algerian ANESRIF/SNTF and many administrations and universities.  Nortel's new Lagos office will deliver technical and operational support to Nortel enterprise and carrier customers in Western and Central Africa and to CDMA customers such as Movicel, a cellular operator and subsidiary of Angola Telecom; and Multi-Links, the first operator to introduce CDMA 2000 1X technology in Nigeria.  About Nortel  Nortel is a recognized leader in delivering communications capabilities that make the promise of Business Made Simple a reality for our customers. Our next-generation technologies, for both service provider and enterprise networks, support multimedia and business-critical applications. Nortel's technologies are designed to help eliminate today's barriers to efficiency, speed and performance by simplifying networks and connecting people to the information they need, when they need it. Nortel does business in more than 150 countries around the world. For more information, visit Nortel on the Web at www.nortel.com. For the latest Nortel news, visit www.nortel.com/news.  Certain statements in this press release may contain words such as 'could', 'expects', 'may', 'anticipates', 'believes', 'intends', 'estimates', 'targets', 'envisions', 'seeks' and other similar language and are considered forward-looking statements or information under applicable securities legislation. These statements are based on Nortel's current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the operating environment, economies and markets in which Nortel operates. These statements are subject to important assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict and the actual outcome may be materially different from those contemplated in forward-looking statements. For additional information with respect to certain of these and other factors, see Nortel's Annual Report on Form10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other securities filings with the SEC. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, Nortel disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  (1)Nortel, the Nortel logo and the Globemark are trademarks of Nortel Networks.  
