: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  Terry McCrann  THE board and senior management of BHP Billiton have shown extraordinary discipline.  The board and senior management of Rio Tinto the reckless and now extremely painful opposite.  The decision by BHPB to walk away from the 'once-in-a-century' bid will clearly add value to Australia's biggest company.  If more of the opportunity cost variety - not losing the value it would have lost if it had proceeded to a 'successful' takeover of Rio. For some months it has been crystal clear that if ever its bid got through the European regulatory maze it would be swamped.  Just as equally it will shred value for Rio. Indeed it has already. The Rio share price dropped like a stone in London to less than $40. And there is more - worse - to come.  It is entirely possible that the Rio share price will fall below BHPB's at some future point. If so, a stunning condemnation of the Rio board's arrogant refusal to engage with the 3.4 BHPB shares offered for each Rio share.  The key reason is that BHPB's decision to walk leaves Rio sitting on a $US42 billion ($A65 billion) pile of debt, at a time when debt is poison, if not death, and its cash-flows are collapsing.  Yes, it's all the fault of the global financial crisis and its spread into the global real economy.  The first has made debt deadly, the second has destroyed the outlook for commodity prices, and so resource group cashflows into the medium term.  But Rio made its disastrous bed by rejecting BHPB's approach with its extravagant, utterly unrealistic perceptions of its own value.  CEO Tom Albanese's (the BHPB offer) 'is at least two ball-parks away' will be etched in eternity on his corporate grave-stone.  If Rio had engaged realistically with the BHPB offer it could have locked in the offer a long time ago. Its huge debt problem would then have been their debt problem.  Now we have two very different companies with very different immediate futures.  On the one hand, there is Rio with that huge debt taken on to pay way over the top for aluminium assets even when commodity prices were high.  The logic was the Alcan business's access to cheap non-carbon hydro power in Canada. While that might still be extremely valuable in the long run, we - and in particular Rio - are all dead in that long run.  In a world of recession, there is no value in non-carbon power. Nobody's going to turn off the carbon power and total power demand will fall anyway.  Along with the price of aluminium - a commodity arguably even more vulnerable than copper to a big and sustained fall in price.  On the other hand BHPB, a considerably bigger company with just $US7 billion of debt and a better spread of assets to ride through the turmoil of 2009 and 2010.  An undertone in BHPB's withdrawal is clearly the expectation that it will be able to pick up choice assets from a Rio fire-sale as it tries desperately to get its debt down.  This is a much better option than over-paying for the lot; picking up that $A65 billion of debt; and then having to try to sell assets into a bear market to meet the European anti-trust obligations.  The other element is a clear expectation that it will probably be able to get all the synergy benefits it aimed for in the Pilbara.  That a badly-hit Rio will come cap-in-hand to 'merge' their iron ore operations at the coalface, so to speak.  Now BHPB can't just walk away from the offer. The law both in Australia and Britain requires it to proceed. But it has two get-out-of-jail cards.  The first is the likelihood that the European competition regulators will impose tough conditions on their approval of the merger. BHPB will simply refuse to give them.  In the unlikely event that the Europeans waved it through, the bid still requires approval by BHPB shareholders. The BHPB board will recommend they don't give it.  This is the most damming indictment on the position taken by the Rio camp. They could have locked BHPB into the bid on both fronts. Now they get to keep their debt and have to eat it too.  There's a particular irony in this for BHPB chairman Don Argus. When he was CEO of the all-dominant National Australia Bank, the government stopped him getting his 'big bank merger'.  Now global big bank promiscuity has indirectly killed his 'big resources merger' that would have created a much bigger and more globally significant group than he could ever have imagined from putting two little Aussie banks together.  Which goes to emphasise the discipline exercised by BHPB. It is walking away from a deal that would still have made it one of the half-dozen or so biggest companies in the world and flushed $450 million in merger-spend down the gurgler.  But also the very serious problems BHPB is explicitly saying that Rio now faces.  If it was seriously concerned about having Rio's debt in their combined and much stronger balance sheet, what does it say about it sitting in a balance sheet barely one-third as big?  
