Suit alleges kickbacks between Nationwide union  Capital Bureau  MONTGOMERY  The state of Alabama will join a lawsuit against Nationwide Life Insurance Co. and the Alabama State Employees Association over a pension deal, a state board decided Wednesday.  The State Personnel Board voted 2-1 to join two state employees who allege in the suit that the union agreed to a bad pension deal for state workers with Nationwide, and in return the union received million-  dollar annual payments from the company.  Board Chairman Joe Dickson said he thought the board's duty to protect state employees required that the state enter into the suit.  James Anderson, the only board member to vote against the legal action, said he wanted the board to gather information about the pension deal without taking sides in the suit.  'I'd like to ask that our attorneys look into that to see about the limited intervention they can make, instead of intervening as a plaintiff,' he said, adding that the plaintiffs already 'have very capable attorneys, and I don't know if they need the state's help.'  Union Executive Director Mac McArthur and his lawyer, Joe Espy, did not return Press-Register calls seeking comment Tuesday and Wednesday. A Nationwide spokesman also did not return a Wednesday phone call but said in a statement Tuesday that the company disagrees with the lawsuit's allegations and builds its pension plans to meet customers' retirement needs.  The personnel board approved revisions to the pension agreement between Nationwide and the union in 2004. Tax returns show that between 2004 and 2007, the union received about $4.5 million from Nationwide and the Public Employees Benefits Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the union that handles the Nationwide money.  Personnel board members said these payments were not mentioned in the pension deal that they were given to  approve.  Additionally, documents recently released as part of the trial show that the pension agreement was changed in both 2006 and 2007  after being approved by the personnel board. Board members said they should have been given opportunity to review these changes but were never told about them.  'We've got a serious situation,' Dickson said. 'It appears that  based on what I've read and some of the things I've seen  that if we don't file a lawsuit, we're in neglect. We're not living up to our fiduciary duty.'  
