EMPLOYEES can expect their Christmas parties to be on the modest side this year thanks to the global economic crisis.  Sydney restaurants, venues and event organisers report big corporate end-of-year functions have been scaled down.  This is in stark contrast to last year's festivities, where changes in fringe benefit tax more than doubled the per head exemption businesses could claim for each employee at Christmas bashes.  Richard Breatnach, general manager of James Gordon Workshop, which has organised functions for Macquarie Bank, Johnson &amp;amp; Johnson Pacific and the Nine Network, said this year's Christmas market was much less 'robust'. 'I think the general feeling is that it's not a time to be seen to be showy,' he said. '[But] we haven't cancelled Christmas completely.' Barclays Global Investors this week donated its 300-person waterside Christmas party to the Inspire Foundation, with staff celebrating at a more modest function at another location, a spokeswoman for the charity said.  Merivale, which owns Sydney venues including Ivy, Establishment Bar and Slip Inn, had noticed companies were cutting down on hype if not bookings, business development manager Kathy Savill said. One customer even mentioned that her recruitment company would be having a barbecue in the boss's backyard this year instead.  Sluggish bookings and smaller corporate functions have also been noted at Quay, Sydney's restaurant of the year. 'Average guest numbers are certainly less than 2007 bookings,' said operations manager Kylie Ball. 'Some corporates that originally booked sit-down Christmas dinners at the beginning of the year are now changing to cocktail events.' Similar belt tightening has been reported in Britain, with a survey of more than 1000 firms revealing that about one-third of businesses there were cutting back.  But for Conrad Savva, who has run his Casino Christmas Party business across Australia for the past 14 years, business was still booming. 'It's all play money, so everyone learns how to play without risking real money,' he said. Source: The Sun-Herald  
