SHENZHEN, China, Nov. 18 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Cogo Group, Inc., a leading provider of customized design solutions for the technology manufacturing sector in China, today announced that Jeffrey Kang, Chairman and CEO and Will Davis, CMO will participate in Barclays Capital 2008 Global Technology Conference on Wednesday, December 10, 2008 at 2 p.m. at The Fairmont San Francisco in California. The presentation will be 25 minutes followed by five minutes of Q&amp;amp;A. There will also be a 30 minute breakout session immediately following the presentation.  During the presentation, Mr. Kang and Mr. Davis will discuss Cogo's 2009 growth strategies within its core businesses of mobile handsets, telecom equipment and digital media, along with new business opportunities in various Industrial verticals, including auto electronics, utilities and green technology. Throughout the day, Mr. Kang and Mr. Davis will be available for one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors. Participation or attendance to this conference is by invitation only. Please contact your Barclays Capital representative.  About Cogo Group, Inc.:  Cogo Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: COGO) is a leading provider of customized module and subsystem design solutions in China. The Company believes it acts as a proxy to China's technology industry as it works with virtually all the major ODMs and OEMs in China. Cogo leverages these relationships and combines their IP to create designs that Cogo then sells to electronic manufacturers. These designs allow manufacturers to reduce their time to market for new products and ultimately increase sales. Cogo focuses on the digital media, mobile handset and telecommunications equipment end-markets for its customized design modules while also offering business and engineering services to its large telecom equipment vendor customers. Over the last twelve years, Cogo has grown its customer list to include more than 1000 of manufacturers across the mobile handset, telecom equipment and consumer markets in China, covering both multinational Chinese subsidiaries and Chinese domestic companies.  SOURCE Cogo Group, Inc.  CONTACT: Cogo Group, Inc., Investor Relations, H.K., +852 2730 1518, U.S., +1-646-291-8998, or fax, +86 (755) 2674 3522, communications@cogo.com.cn
