 Rafael Benitez will put aside transfer activity for one night at least to try to make sure Liverpool reach the Champions League group stages.The Anfield chief has pressing issues involving Xabi Alonso, Jermaine Pennant, Sami Hyypia and Steve Finnan before the transfer window shuts next Monday, while the 12million purchase of Albert Riera from Espanyol is thought to be at an advanced stage.But Liverpool need overcome Standard Liege in the third qualifying round second leg - the score is 0-0 after the first game a fortnight ago - and Benitez said: 'I shall not be bringing in anyone today (Wednesday) or tomorrow, so for now everyone should be concentrating on the job in hand, and that is making sure that Liverpool reach the group stages.' After winning both their opening Barclays Premier League games, but without playing that well, Liverpool need a convincing performance on Wednesday night to lift the club and make sure their European campaign is not derailed by the impressive Belgian champions. Benitez added: 'I am not even considering the option of Liverpool not qualifying for the group stages, I am just thinking about winning. 'My concern now is to improve how we play, we can play better. Liege were good in the first leg, but we were really poor. 'If we improve and play at our real level it will be very difficult for them. 'Liege are probably the hardest opponents we have faced in Champions League qualifiers. But we know we are better than them, even though they played well in the first leg. 'At Anfield we are confident we can win and I expect us to win. The key is to be calm and confident in your team and the ability of your players. We have the players who can win this type of game. 'Whatever happens it will not really disrupt my transfer plans, we are so close to the end of the window things will not change.' Keep up to date with the news. Sign up for News Alerts E-Newsletters Have your say on the latest news and sport in our Forums TRANMERE are offering adult supporters a special discount as they head into a run of three games at Prenton Park in eight days. Read DERBY COUNTY must pay Tranmere a guaranteed 275,000 in compensation for taking winger Steve Davies to Pride Park this summer. Read 
