 VICTORIA. x--13s. Victoria, B-C, police have arrested the second of two inmates who allegedly escaped from the Nanaimo Regional Correctional Centre on Friday. Twenty-five-year-old Geoffrey Agnew was spotted by Oak Bay police officers at a Dairy Queen. Sergeant Ray Maxwell says officers recognized him because of a Canada wide arrest warrant. (''...without incident.') (SOURCE:CFAX) (1130p)TAG: Agnew and Allen Fandry allegedly escaped from the medium security facility on Friday night. Fandry was re-arrested early Saturday morning.98 - (Kyrgyzstan-Plane-Cda)MOSCOW. x--05s. A spokesman for the Kyrgyzstan government says two Canadians were on board a passenger jet that crashed shortly after takeoff from the capital of Bishkek today, killing 68 people. There were 22 survivors. There is no information on the Canadians but Foreign Affairs in Ottawa says it's looking into the reports. Reporter Maria Danilova (dan-ih-LOH'-vah) says the crew reported a technical problem about 10 minutes after takeoff. (''...the jet.') (SOURCE:The Associated Press) (1130p)TAG: The plane is owned by Itek Air, which has been banned from operating in the airspace of the European Union because of failure to meet safety and aviation standards.99 - (SPORTS-GOLF-Barclays)PARAMUS, New Jersey. x--15s. Vijay Singh won The Barclays for a record fourth time Sunday, matching Sergio Garcia with a long birdie putt on the first hole of a playoff and finishing off the Spaniard with another birdie on the second extra hole. Singh says the pressure was on when he sank a 26-foot birdie putt on the first playoff hole after Sergio Garcia made a 27-footer for birdie. (''...went in.') (SOURCE:The Associated Press) (1130p)100 - (SPORTS-GOLF-Barclays)PARAMUS, New Jersey. x--16s. Vijay Singh earned 11-thousand FedEx Cup points in the playoff opener to take the lead ahead of second-place Sergio Garcia. Singh says his lead in the FedEx Cup playoffs could be short-lived. (''...the end.') (SOURCE:The Associated Press) (1130p)101 - (SPORTS-GOLF-Barclays)PARAMUS, New Jersey. x--s. Sergio Garcia was the runner up at the P-G-A Championship this month. He says The Barclays were another tough missed opportunity for him..
