 The 20-day temporary restraining order (TRO) against the union members of a downtown department store does not prohibit them from staging their picket, the National Labor Relations Commission-Central Visayas (NLRC-7) said.NLRC Commissioner Aurelio Mezon clarified that a strike is a constitutional right.The TRO prohibits these workers from committing acts of intimidation and violence to fellow workers as well as disrupting operations and the flow of customers to Gaisano Capital Mactan and Gaisano Capital South.Workers affiliated with the Associated Labor Union-Trade Union Congress of the Philippines (ALU-TUCP) have been holding a picket in front of the department stores to protest what they alleged as unfair labor practices.NLRC labor arbiter Emiliano Tiongco Jr. said the TRO bars picketers from obstructing traffic flow to and from Gaisano Capital-Mactan and Gaisano Capital-South.Tiongco said the picketers are expected to answer the petition for injunction filed by Taipan Development Corp. which operates the two department stores on Aug. 26 or 10 days after receiving a a copy of the TRO.The hearing on the case is scheduled on Aug. 28.The NLRC said the TRO petition is intended to ensure the safety of the customers and preserve peace and order within the vicinity of the two malls.Mayor Tomas Osmea voiced support for the TRO even as he reiterated that he would not hesitate to intervene again should the occasion call for it.Osmea has been receiving flak from labor groups for dispersing the picket at the Gaisano Capital-South on Tuesday. Both he and his bodyguard were armed.He explained that he had to get his shotgun from his vehicle and arm himself with his 9mm pistol after he saw that some of the picketers wore masks.Osmea called on the Cebu City Council to pass an ordinance prohibiting protestors from wearing masks or any facial coverings during mass actions. "How can we identify anything, they could be intruders or vigilantes. Why don't we be the first city in the Philippines that in situation like that, they (rallyists) should not be covering their faces," he said. The ALU-TUCP criticized the mayor's interference in last Tuesday's picket.Joy Lim, ALU-TUCP information officer, said the mayor treated the picketers like dogs.Lim said Osmea's actions were in sharp contrast to Lapu-Lapu City Mayor Arturo Radaza who called up the Tripartite Industrial Peace Council to handle mediation for their strike at Gaisano-Mactan last Saturday.Other labor groups called Osmea "anti-labor." But the mayor explained that he had always been a supporter of labor. Tuesday's incident, he added, was mingled with politics.While the mayor received brickbats from labor, the company management was thankful for his intervention, claiming the picketers were already blocking the entrance to the malls.Taipan Development Corp. lawyer Erlinda Ramos denied accusations by the ALU-TUCP affiliated Independent Labor Association of Workers (Ilaw) group that the termination of some Gaisano employees were tantamount to unfair labor practice.She said the workers were given due process. She said he picketers should lodge their complaint before the NLRC and not take their case to the streets.Ramos said they have a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with the Ilaw Independent group that is not ALU-TUCP affiliated.Based on company investigation, a Gaisano Mactan employee named Silvia Osabel was terminated after she was found to be stealing stocks from the store's ladies department amounting to more than P50,000.Ramos said she knew of three other employees of Gaisano Mactan, who were terminated because of the same reasons.She said the Ilaw Independent sent a letter to the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) and the National Conciliation and Mediation Board (NCMB) last June 29 stating that the June 19 notice of strike signed by former Ilaw president Amelia Calam was not authorized by the union.Calam resigned last May. A reelection was held and Juditha Villame was elected as president.Lim said otherwise, reiterating that Osabel is the president of Ilaw-ALU-TUCP. "We cannot recognize them (Ilaw-ALU-TUCP) because we have a bargaining agent which is Ilaw Independent," said Ramos. She also said that it is not true more than 200 Ilaw members supported the affiliation to ALU-TUCP. "At the most, there are only 13 employees of Gaisano who participate in the picket. All the rest are goons," Ramos said. The office of Labor Secretary Marianito Roque vowed to monitor the labor dispute between the workers of the two Gaisano stores in Cebu and Lapu-Lapu Cities owned by the Taipan Development Corp. With reports from Correspondents Carine Asutilla and Chito Aragon
