 PARAMUS, N.J. - When The Barclays concluded Sunday evening, two winners were worth recognizing. One was Vijay Singh, who outlasted Sergio Garcia on the second playoff hole to claim his record fourth victory in the tournament.The other was Ridgewood Country Club, which seized the spotlight in its first year hosting The Barclays by drawing robust crowds and considerable praise from players. The first Barclays ever played away from Westchester Country Club after 41 years in Harrison can be deemed a success given the injection of new life the new venue provided.The problem is, no one can say for sure whether that success will last.Just as The Barclays ventured into new territory when it left Westchester for Ridgewood this year, it will do the same thing in 2009 when it moves to Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City - a course that will look stunning on TV thanks to ample views of the Statue of Liberty, but one that's yet to be scrutinized as a test of golf.'I believe it is a good venue,' Barclays CEO Bob Diamond said in a roundtable discussion on Saturday. 'But I'm probably not the right judge.'As jarring a transition as this year's move to Ridgewood might have been for The Barclays, the real effects of rotating the tournament around the New York area won't be known until next year, when the tour leaves another widely acclaimed course for an unknown entity.Because just when players were wrapping their brains around playing a course other than Westchester, they'll have to get used to a new track next summer.The tournament has been slotted to head to Liberty National since last year, and still is obligated to return at least one more time to Westchester before 2012. That leaves some room for a return to Ridgewood, but PGA Tour players know it's not something they can control.'We just have to go where they take us,' said Singh, who, like several other players, lavished praise on Ridgewood. 'We have no say in that. I mean, we can bark about it all the time, and we can say this is the venue where we would like to play. But the sponsors and the tour have their own obligations.'As both Diamond and tournament executive director Peter Mele said, the hope is to return The Barclays to Ridgewood sometime in the next three or four years. But that depends on Ridgewood's membership, which fully embraced the event knowing it wasn't going to be an annual disruption. Traditionally, the club has hosted grand-scale events only every decade or so - for example, the 1990 U.S. Open and 2001 Senior PGA Championship - and at least before the week began, that's how club officials looked at The Barclays.'I don't know if they're open or not,' Mele said. 'We'll probably hope to talk to them sometime in the fall.'And not to be forgotten is Westchester, a club that was oddly quiet last week during the tournament, but one that is still supposed to be part of The Barclays' future. In the agreement reached last January between the tour and the club, the tour will return to Harrison at least one more time and possibly twice before 2012.Despite tensions between the two sides, Westchester president Phil Halpern has stated repeatedly that he and the majority of Westchester members look forward to having the tournament back. When that happens is one of many questions The Barclays faces moving forward. Regardless, it's safe to say the tournament's days of being rooted in one place are over.Reach Sam Weinman at sweinman@lohud.com and read his golf blog at golf.lohudblogs.com. 
