 CITY manager Mark Hughes is short of options in attack for the Barclays Premier League match against West Ham on Sunday. Valeri Bojinov has joined Benjani and Darius Vassell in the treatment room after suffering an Achilles injury in the warm-up before the 4-2 defeat by Aston Villa. Former CSKA Moscow striker Jo could be back for the UEFA Cup match against FC Midtjylland next Thursday after being on Olympic duty with Brazil. Captain Richard Dunne is again ruled out through suspension. New signing Vincent Kompany will join up with the squad if he gets clearance. 'This week is all about having the right reaction to what happened last weekend,' said Hughes. 'I saw things that I was pleased with. Some of our passing was crisp and incisive but we needed more of an end product and to have put the opposition under more pressure for longer periods and that is what we will be looking to do. 'It is key to get points on the board as quickly as possible because when that happens the focus on other issues fades away and people focus on the football. 'West Ham got off to a good start last weekend and we are expecting an open enough game. From my point of view, I am looking for us to be nice and solid defensively with that platform and understanding that allows us to go on the front-foot and dictate to the opposition.' West Ham hope to have striker Dean Ashton (calf) and midfielder Scott Parker (thigh) fit for the game. Defender Anton Ferdinand - a reported target for Sunderland - remains sidelined with a hamstring injury, as does Wales forward Craig Bellamy. Kieron Dyer (broken leg), Jonathan Spector (hip), George McCartney (virus), Danny Gabbidon (stomach), James Tompkins (leg) and James Collins (knee) are still out. Manchester City (from): Hart, Corluka, Onuoha, Richards, Ben Haim, Ball, Garrido, Fernandes, Hamann, Ireland, Johnson, Etuhu, Elano, Bianchi, Evans, Sturridge, Castillo, Schmeichel, Caicedo. West Ham United (from): Green, Behrami, Davenport, Upson, Neill, Faubert, Parker, Noble, Etherington, Ashton, Cole, Lastuvka, Reid, Bowyer, Spence, Boa Morte, Mullins, Sears. Key opponent: Dean Ashton - if he is fit he will be the danger man Prediction: City 2 West Ham 1 - The Blues can bounce back from their opening day defeat Agree with the prediction? Have your say. You can get 8/1 on City winning 2-1 with Betfred. For this and more odds, click here. 
