 I work for Bank Saderat, a UK incorporated bank, whose parent company is in Iran. I've had a personal bank account with Barclays for 27 years, and worked for Barclays for 15 years. Squeezed out: Barclays is using a US regulatory framework WANT TO KNOW MORE? Choosing a bank account New on the market: Saving and banking POLL: Have application requirements ever stopped you opening a bank account? OTHER STORIES What's happened to high-speed banking? Spread your risks with a new cash Isa Can I get direct debit rules and T&amp;amp;C's? Was I ripped off on my Regular Saver? Is it worth saving offshore? USEFUL SAVINGS LINKS GUIDES: Saving and banking DEAL FINDER: Best accounts BLOG: Tips on banks, fees, savings 'Because of the global regulatory and risk environment in which we operate' it cannot get involved in any transaction - including my salary payments - with a company listed on the Office of Foreign Asset Control Specially Designated Nationals List. It is not only my own account at stake, but my joint account with my husband. J.O., Welling, Kent Margaret Stone, The Daily Mail's Money Doctor replies: The most disturbing feature of the curt and dismissive letter you received from Barclays is the fact that nowhere does it spell out that the regulatory framework it quotes is American, not British. Bank Saderat is on the US list of banned businesses. but not on the equivalent list in the UK, EU or UN. If it were, then Barclays would have no option but to close your accounts. But US jurisdiction does not run over here, and despite the tone of its letter, there is no legal obligation whatsoever for Barclays to close your accounts. Unfortunately, it does not prevent Barclays from doing so. A bank can decide, 'for commercial reasons', to close a customer account - provided it gives due notice, takes account of any practical difficulties that might be involved and is not discriminatory. I cannot persuade Barclays to overturn a board policy decision. I would take your case to the Financial Ombudsman Service which is certainly aware of Barclays' decision vis-avis Bank Saderat, but so far has had no formal complaint to investigate. But it is not an open-and-shut case. Fortunately other UK banks prefer to follow our Government's guidance rather than use American rules. Lloyds TSB and HSBC, for example, say they would have no difficulty with your circumstances. How safe is your bank? Savings compensation &amp;amp;#8226; Is your bank separately authorised? &amp;amp;#8226; Just how safe are overseas banks? &amp;amp;#8226; Measure your bank's strength - Part 1 &amp;amp;#8226; Measure your bank's strength - Part 2 &amp;amp;#8226; Measure your bank's strength - Part 3 (June 2008) &amp;amp;#8226; An overview of savings protection and compensation Other stories: Reclaim business account bank charges Switch to a better bank account Bank charges: Account closure threats Barclays leads with 6.5% cash Isa Isa transfer times cut to two weeks Barclays slashes rates for savers - again How to save safely with UK banks and building societies Isas boom as the credit crunch hits The '12%' inflation-beating cash Isa Good fixed-rate savings deals persist 
