 Napier fraudster Blair Fitzsimons' victims have spurned his apologies, saying he is only looking for a lighter sentence.Fitzsimons issued a written apology yesterday after pleading guilty in Napier District Court to stealing more than $3 million from friends, and another $1 million from a bank and a finance company.Rob Elvidge and John Gifford, founding partners and shareholders in Napier-based Pioneer Insurance, were in court to hear Fitzsimons admit his thefts. They were less than impressed by his apology. 'He is not sorry in the slightest. He is sorry he got caught,' Mr Gifford said. Fitzsimons stole $3 million between December 2005 and November 2006 by writing out Pioneer Insurance cheques. Fitzsimons confessed his offending to The Dominion Post last July.The Serious Fraud Office investigated and he first appeared on the charges in Hamilton in February.Working as the company's general manager, he told directors he had put the $3 million on term deposit with GE Finance to cultivate a good business relationship with that company.He even forged GE Finance documents to back up his story, but was using the money to prop up his failing car rental company, Xpress.Fitzsimons also took out a secret $586,000 loan from Marac Finance in Pioneer's name, and gave the money to Xpress.He persuaded his father to write out a $500,000 cheque and offered it to his own bank, Westpac, as security for a $500,000 withdrawal from his own account, which he wanted to pass on to Pioneer as part of the imaginary $3 million deposit.Westpac allowed Fitzsimons to withdraw the money, but his father's $500,000 cheque bounced and Westpac was left $500,000 out of pocket.Within days, Fitzsimons told Mr Elvidge what had been going on.He pleaded guilty yesterday to five charges of using documents dishonestly, and three of using forged documents. He was remanded on bail for sentence on October 3.Fitzsimons issued a written statement, apologising to 'everyone affected by my actions, and in particular for the breach of trust and hurt that I have caused my former business partners and their families'. His wife and family had been subjected to rumours and 'false allegations' since his theft was uncovered.Mr Gifford said Fitzsimons' theft had forced his family into selling their house. 'We are not through all of this by any stretch of the imagination.' Mr Elvidge said he suspected Fitzsimons had apologised in an attempt to affect his sentencing. 'This was the first time I've seen him since he left the office. He has never made contact with us nor has there been any attempt to do so,' he said. 'He was in the public gallery and he didn't look at us. Not a gesture, not anything. 'I am satisfied he was finally in front of a judge and that he has pleaded guilty. 'I'm happy about that and I will be pleased when he is sentenced,' Mr Elvidge said.
