   In her PD article, Mary Kay Cabot writes...  &amp;amp;nbsp;    The Text of the Cleveland Browns Suspension Letter to Kellen Winslow    &amp;amp;nbsp;  [10/21/08  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Via Hand Delivery  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Mr. Kellen Winslow  Address withheld   &amp;amp;nbsp;  Dear Kellen:  This letter serves as formal notification that, pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1 of the NFL Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Cleveland Browns 2008 Maximum Discipline Schedule, you are being disciplined for engaging in Conduct Detrimental to the Club.    &amp;amp;nbsp;  Specifically, on October 19, 2008, following our game against the Washington Redskins, you made public statements that were inappropriate, inaccurate, portrayed the Club in a false light, and diminished the Club&amp;#039;s reputation. In addition, you engaged in profane verbal abuse of a Club&amp;#039;s public relations member in the locker room following the Redskins game.  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Your actions, which violated your obligations under the Cleveland Browns Maximum Discipline Schedule, Article LV, Section 6 of the CBA, and Paragraph 2 of your NFL Player Contract, have significantly disrupted and adversely affected the Cleveland Browns team and organization, and cannot be tolerated.  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Accordingly, you are hereby suspended without pay for one week for Conduct Detrimental to the Club. Your suspension will begin immediately and will end on Monday, October 27, 2008, at 8 a.m., at which time you are directed to report to the Club facility to resume work. If you need treatment or rehabilitation during your suspension, please contact Marty Lauzon at (number withheld) so he can set you up at an off-site facility.  &amp;amp;nbsp;  Please be advised that further violations of Club rules or engaging in conduct that is detrimental to the Club may result in additional discipline in accordance with Article VIII, Section 1 of the CBA.  Sincerely, Romeo Crennel Head Coach  &amp;amp;nbsp;  cc: NFL Management Council NFL Players Association Drew Rosenhaus, NFLPA certified representative Phil Savage, Senior Vice President and General Manager   
