       A few excerpts from the Micron CC, relevant to NAND:  Steven R. Appleton  If you think about NAND, obviously there has been less impact there. Of course, there are less producers. The NAND market cap-ex, as you already know, at least in 2008, is going to be down sequentially, which is essentially, I think, the first time thats happened since the inception of the market. And the NAND supply, at least that we see from a lot of the forecasts, is only going to grow somewhere around 100%. And thats the lowest on record, I think, for the NAND market since its inception.  Tim Luke  Barclays Capital  You have that $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion of cap-ex, where is that going to be focused and what are the implications for your JV with Intel with the lower cap-ex number?  Steven R. Appleton  I think it is worth noting that, first of all, primarily that cap-ex will be in the DRAM arena. But remember, as Ron just noted, the IMF fabs, we are finishing out the construction of the building but essentially we now dont plan on having that equipped during our fiscal 2009.  ....  Steven R. Appleton  If you look at the data today, actually, its continued to go the opposite trend. As a matter of fact, this is the first quarter that both our desk top and the notebook content in the industry is over 2 gigabyte per unit. And beyond that, we are kind of in a wait-and-see until the notebook [inaudible] overall impact on the industry. Unit volume, they are kind of just barely starting out today.  Secondly, in addition to when you talk about [inaudible] notebook it might look like a probably down-size in the DRAM turns into an opportunity for solid state technology on the NAND side. So were pretty excited about that category in general and we dont think its [inaudible] right now in the next 12-24 months in the unit perspective in the overall units.  Uche Orji - UBS  So you dont think its maxed out just year. The last part, did you say it was [inaudible] for the next 12-18 months?  Steven R. Appleton  I think thats probably about right. And clearly right now its not material. We dont see that going through the, as far as out as 12-24 months in terms of a overall capacity in the industry. As I said, theres an upside opportunity on the forward side of that because theyre going out in many cases without hard drives, which storage will be an internal drive.  ....  John Pitzer - Credit Suisse  A couple of qualifications first. Relative to the $70.0 million recovery for NAND products purchased from other suppliers, is that all Lexar-related? Or can you help me understand that a little bit?  Steven R. Appleton  Yes, thats Lexar-related.  John Pitzer - Credit Suisse  And then secondly, you talked a little bit about SSDs. Have you guys actually recognized any revenues relative to the SSDs? And help me understand how we should think about this market developing over the next several quarters. At what point do you think it might actually be 5% to 10% of your NAND sales?  Mark W. Adams  Today the revenue is fairly small in the category, for us, on the Micron side. Mind you, our strategy has been to kind of develop a world-class enterprise offering as we went in and tested, as I mentioned earlier, with some of our key customers. As it relates to kind of a forward-looking market projection, its pretty tough, although I will tell you that given the trends in the ASP demand, its starting to make that curve [inaudible] come in a little bit. The cost per gigabyte today, what we thought 12 months ago, seems to be a little bit more aggressive in terms of price adoption.  ....  James Covello - Goldman Sachs  A couple of things, sort of derivations of questions that have already been asked. Weve spent a lot time asking about DRAM consolidation. Obviously there is a pretty important piece of NAND consolidation that is out there in terms of Samsum having announced an offer for SanDisk. Can you help us understand, to the extent that it was, and the consolidation of Nanya, that specific piece of consolidation, how do you think that would affect the industry dynamics, other than from market share, supply to world containments amongst the various parties in the industry.  Steven R. Appleton  Well, I dont want to speak for other companies, but first of all I think the consolidation that is occurring in NAND, you have to look at it at two different levels.  SanDisk is not a producer of NAND components, they are a minority partner in a company that actually is a producer of NAND components, and we all know that that is Toshiba. So in terms of Samsum potentially acquiring SanDisk, obviously I dont have any insight as to whether that will or will not happen. I can only say that that is a consolidation, if you will, of the channels, its not a consolidation of NAND component production.  Having said that, there has clearly been conferrals. Weve been part of those announcements as well as some contractions around 8-inch NAND and I think you will see additional contraction as we move forward, in particular on the 8-inch front. So I think more likely in the NAND space, I mean theres really only four of us that produce it at the component level, more likely the NAND space at the component level, its really us and others either deferring expansion or taking off line a sufficient production capacity.   But in terms of the channel, I think thats where you will probably see consolidation as these companies try to position themselves or create better links to solve whatever their own particular issues are.  James Covello - Goldman Sachs  One other follow-up questions around the solid state drive adoption, where is the industry at this point in multi-level cell controllers and has that really been the gating factor in your mind since the one thing, you know, further penetration in solid state drives, obviously prices need to come down and prices are coming down but thats been a little bit of a gating factor. Where do you think Micron and the industry is on that?  Mark W. Adams  I think if you divide the market segments up into enterprise and PC/notebook, you get a different set of requirements to compete for the existing applications. On the notebook side, which will probably drive most of the MLC-based solid state drives, there actually has been some fairly good progress around controllers in that environment. So I think, as I said, given the price trending and the declines over the recent quarter, were starting to get to a point where the solid state drive application notebooks is increasingly becoming more attractive from an end users perspective.  On the enterprise side, I dont think were in a place where we are mostly in control of development if youre even in a position to compete for that space. Youve got a whole set of different requirements around reliability, performance, and so on and so forth, where its still a chameleon SLC market and thats where our control will kind of evolve in the short term.  ....  Now, having said that about those two categories, my perspective, given what Im seeing in the DRAM market versus the NAND market, I think that a lot of people feel like the DRAM business is going to recover sooner than the NAND business may recover, and I think that would be reflective, by the way, of what you see in the cap-ex.  So, when you look at the DRAM business today, it just doesnt feel like for many companies its sustainable. Many of them are below their cash cost, they have moved into balance sheet preservation. Its a very, very difficult environment.  And also its worth noting that there are weaker players that exist in the DRAM business compared to the NAND business because if you look at those that are really producing NANDs it is essentially Samsum, Micron, Toshiba and obviously we are major players in both spaces. So, thats just how I see it playing out.   On the NAND front its just hard for me to respond because I dont know how long it takes for a lot of the capital pushes or whatever capacity has come off line to be a factor. In particular, when you look at the demand growth rates, obviously NAND far exceeds DRAM so this is one of those periods of time where NAND has a lot of price elasticity. I mean more price elasticity than DRAM and its behaving a lot more like the DRAM business did in pre-1995 around that elasticity, so its much harder to predict when that market might turn as opposed to what were seeing in the DRAM business.  ....  Doug Freedman - American Technology Research  Can you also comment as far as the bits that you shipped in the Lexar retail, the percentage of bit? Youve given that number in past.  Steven R. Appleton  In terms of flash components, Lexar ended up consuming about 50% to 55% of their overall needs. As it relates to Micron overall supply on NAND, it continues to approach about 20% of the overall supply of Micron parts.  ....  Bob Gujavarty - Deutsche Bank Securities  And are you still on track for your 34 nanometer transition for NAND? I think the ideal was 50% exiting this calendar year.  Steven R. Appleton  Yes, thats still progressing well. We are very happy with the yield at the Utah fab. Those are approaching maturity on some of the wafers and we have begun the transition now in Virginia and have a good yield in that fab as well.  Bob Gujavarty - Deutsche Bank Securities  Do you think once your 34 nanometers ramp that you will have kind of industry-leading costs and [Hinam]?  Steven R. Appleton  Yes, we believe so.  
