         nuages wrote:   &amp;amp;quot;The point is that the assertion on which the whole TMF site is based, namely that long term investment in stock markets will outdo all other methods of saving, is proving to be of doubtful validity.&amp;amp;quot;  The Nikkei has just gone to 8,000, having been nearly 40,000 two decades ago. Yet the virtual elimination of value in Japanese equities does not seem to have poleaxed its economy or reduced living standards to North Korean levels.  Now the FTSE is under 4,000, looking wan and frail compared with 1999, can we be absolutely sure that this other group of offshore islands with a stable constitutional monarchy and some history of economic and industrial dynamism cannot possibly operate in the post-industrial world without a large, seething stock market?  Investment in securities across a broad spectrum of activities (as opposed to rails, breweries and the National Debt) did not really get going until the late 19th century: well after leadership of the world was passing from the British Empire to the USA and Germany. The Industrial Revolution was an affair of sole traders and unlimited partnerships, not joint stock companies passively owned and unaccountably managed. Borrowing, trade underwriting and above all retained profits fuelled growth, not capital issues to strangers.   The post-WW2 cult of the equity among collective, delegated investors was a reaction to dishonest money, inflationary pressures and low growth rates-- not a burgeoning of confidence in a rampant economy like India&amp;#039;s or China&amp;#039;s (or Japan&amp;#039;s, in the 1960s and 1970s).  Those who blithely quote the Barclays shares v. gilts stats forget that the whole period they cover represents the relative decline of Britain&amp;#039;s commercial greatness, and the surrender of entrepreneurial capitalism to welfare socialism and fiat money.  Frenzied gambling on bourses, using more and more fanciful derivatives, is not necessarily a sine qua non of prosperity. It may even be a symptom of Anglo-American decadence and the passing of the torch to Asia.                  
