         In case anyone hadnt noticed, we have been having a few global banking issues of late. This has, as all the data has been pointing out, restricted considerably the number of mortgage approvals. Given however the severity of the situation house prices across the board have not collapsed at the rate some were expecting. Whether this collapse happens over the coming months remains to be seen, but thats not the purpose of this post.  The purpose of this post is to give a bit of a heads-up on what appears to be happening amongst the banks at street level, during the crisis, at the point where they interface with business borrowers, including landlords. I have recently done a tour of the banks to see what is available, so the information relates to the last two weeks (which is a long time in banking at present), much of it the last week (which is still a long time in banking at present).  The purpose of my tour of the banks was that one of my existing facilities was due for review, and I wanted to find out what else was available. I also wanted to make sure that if my bank was not keen to continue our relationship on favourable terms  which I could not take for granted  I could still obtain finance. Some here were speculating that the demise of B&amp;amp;amp;B would kill all remaining lending. I doubted it, but anything was possible.  It is worth noting that intermediaries are struggling at present. They still have products, but the number, quality and value of them changes on a daily basis. Sometimes hourly. One broker told me that 75% of his products had vanished in a single day last week. It also seems to be the case that banks are using the current situation to form direct relationships with borrowers, cutting intermediaries out of the equation. The spirit of brokers I have spoken to has varied from near suicidal to optimistic, though the optimism has been heavily tempered by not actually having any products at all for some applications.  I was seeking commercial loans for the purchase and refurbishment of properties in Nottingham city, with a term loan to run them as a portfolio. The property would typically be in need of substantial upgrade (often in the order of 40+% of purchase price). There are regular BTL lenders in the market still but their deals are becoming increasingly weak. They are also being very picky about what they will take on, and big refurbishments are not on their radar.  Of the banks that I actually spoke to at length, the view was as follows:   The banks that had no appetite at all:    RBS  They asked for a detailed proposal whilst confidently stating that they were interested. However when referred to the underwriters, the RBS reps found that the bank wasnt keen on property deals at present. I did of course ask the question, why, when you should have known this, did you take up my time and drink my coffee then?  Nat West  Almost exactly the same situation, despite assurances that we are completely autonomous of RBS and we make our own decisions.   The banks that were interested, but not at a level I would entertain:   Barclays  What an unusually tall organisation. I started off dealing with the local  personal banking  manager. He said that Id need to deal with the local commercial chap. So I met him. He said that the lend was outside his remit, so he referred me to the local big office and a different commercial account manager. He also decided that the deal was too large and referred it to yet another individual. This individual said that Barclays would be delighted to lend, and at great terms. Unfortunately, our understandings of the word great were a bus ride apart.  Handelsbanken  Lovely people, and highly recommended by several people I know. But they are a relationship orientated bank and whilst I suspect that their long-standing customers do very well, their offer to me was cautious.   Those that were definitely in the market.   Clydesdale  Another relationship bank, and if you have a track record with them they are very obliging. If there is currently a bank that harks back to Captain Mainwarings days this is the one. They dont wear wing collars usually, but they could do so easily.  Llloyds TSB  They seem quite bullish for business, and apparently want to capitalise upon the dearth of property lending at present.  HSBC  I have had a relationship with them for fifteen years, and I have I think been a good customer, but unfortunately their appetite for property deals of any type is very limited. So, if you want to use them theres a premium to be paid. This seems to vary by individual branch and area though.  Bank of Ireland  Both their commercial and retail operations (completely independent it seems) are actively lending.   Terms   The maximum LTV currently available is 75%. This will also almost certainly depend upon existing relationships. Of course most banks will consider higher LTV, but with additional security. Without exception the LTV for new to bank business is 70%. The more reserved lenders are talking in the 60-65% region.  The rental cover, or multiple of loan payment that the rent needs to be varies between 1.25 and 1.5.  Interest rates. Now this is where the biggest variation exists. In the past two weeks I have been quoted deals as diverse as 2% over BOE base and 1.5% over 3-month LIBOR.  Fees. At 70% LTV typically fees are 1% plus security and valuation fees. These fees will typically add up to about 750.00.  So, what does this mean in practice? It means that in order to carry on any sort of property business that doesnt revolve around tidy 2-bed terraces, its almost essential to have a commercial lender on board. But current commercial loans are quite expensive, albeit that they tend to offer the flexibility of having no redemption penalties usually* They are also variable depending upon the movement of base rate or, increasingly, LIBOR**  A would-be investor new to bank, with will typically be looking at a deal like this:  70% LTV Fee 1% Security 400 Survey 400 Interest rate 2.25% over base = 7.75% at todays base rate. Rental cover 125%  They will probably also need to demonstrate either a full-time job with the ability to meet loan payments if necessary, or some experience in the sector.  In practice, then, this removes from the market a great number of investors, and should in theory drive prices down. It should also result in less competition, keeping rents firm. Already this year I have been able to increase rents, and I am hearing similar reports from other landlords.  What impact has the deepening financial crisis and the end of Bradford and Bingley had? One of my bank facilities was being reviewed during the period when the American bail-out deal fell out of bed and Bradford and Bingley went off. The review took two weeks to wrap up, duing which the crisis deepended daily. I could have experienced a punative modification to my ongoing arrangement, but in fact it resulted in a 35bp increase in price from this time last year, no other terms changed.  So, in summary, whilst regular BTL lenders are looking weak and uncommitted, the banks broadly speaking still have a good appetite for business. Even new to bank property business is being looked at seriously, though as one would expect the banks are looking after their existing customers best. It is certainly the case that turmoil in the financial markets has put prices up, but not by nearly as much as it could have and despite what you&amp;#039;d expect intuitively banks are still feeling the need to compete for business. It is far from the case that recent events have killed commercial lending. It seems to be alive and well.  Manks  *Some banks do charge an exit fee, moving part of the fee from the front of the loan.  **Though banks are tending to offer hedging products alongside these loans.                  
