You are: The Path (5:3:15) Etd   (Clear)  Size: 1,552 93  Value: 5,053,558 56  Score: 6,058,738 67  XP: 16,753 419     Wasn't planning on playing the round but Kenny nagged a few times and I was a bit bored with uni so gave in and late-signed.  Spent a week or two noob roiding, got very fat, was quite relaxing not having to worry too much with a nice active gal to watch my back.  Fell foul of a very clever fake at some point (gg Wakko), lost some roids but survived and got fatter. Carried on noob roiding, lots of sleep, didn't really put much effort in.  At this point (maybe it was later, not sure), over a third of all my attacks had been at the same planet. Was surprised I didn't get closed for farming, especially considering some other slightly retarded MHer decisions later in the round!  Had to drop my production to cover some incoming one night, turned out to be a fake, which was kinda frustrating. I was now in everyone's bash limits which I'd been avoiding till then. Denial hit our gal pretty heavy the next night, some good defending but one wave landed on me.  Got fatter still through some more noob roiding, but also joined in with some Ascendancy attacks. Was about t30 on roids now (about pt800), and very value heavy. My first ever t100 was in sight! Gal mate and similar late sign-up Byrney was still ahead of me thanks to my rather shocking lack of XP.    Started playing a bit more serious now, offering some def ships at night and no more noob roiding. Got my XP up and quickly rocketed through the top100 ranks. Top 50 was now a very high possibility, and started joking with gal mate and Asc player alexis (&amp;lt;3) that I might catch him.  Then I got roided by panick. Gifted him 1k roids and 30k XP. Lots of lulz ensued at my expense in #ascendancy as panick jumped about 400 ranks into the t100, and 1.10 were also able to claim #1 in XP along with everything else.      Gal got a night or two of heavy inc in the last few days which prevented me from attacking for more XP and any remaining chance of catching alexis! Awesome DCing by JBG(&amp;lt;3) and cross-defending with alexis and CBA saved our collective butts.    All in all quite an enjoyable relaxing round.  
