My letter:  To Whom It May Concern,  I am writing this letter to you in regards to your current activities that you deem fit and proper in light of Mr. Taxpayers expense. Seeing that the Federal Reserve has given you over $123 billion in taxpayer dollars to help keep your company afloat and within the last month there has been two documented cases of using monies to fund extravagant trips that was in AIG&amp;#039;s word: &amp;quot;This was an annual event for customers of the AIG property casualty insurance companies in the U.K. and Europe, and planned months before the Federal Reserve Bank of New York&amp;#039;s loan to AIG,&amp;quot; company spokesman Peter Tulupman said Wednesday morning.  I just would like to know how this is a proper use of funds when Mr. &amp;amp; Mrs. Taxpayer are helping to keep your business going and afloat? Even off your Corporate Responsibility page it states, &amp;quot;Since our founding nearly a century ago, the AIG Companies (Collectively &amp;quot;AIG&amp;quot;) have focused on being a leader in corporate social responsibility. As a global financial services organization, we have committed our resources to developing products and services that address the needs of our clients as well as promote a corporate culture that values integrity, diversity, innovation and excellence.&amp;quot; I had to look up corporate social responsibility as I had no idea what that meant. Wikipedia stated that corporate social responsibility is &amp;quot;a concept whereby organizations consider the interests of society by taking responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities and other stakeholders, as well as the environment. This obligation is seen to extend beyond the statutory obligation to comply with legislation and sees organizations voluntarily taking further steps to improve the quality of life for employees and their families as well as for the local community and society at large.&amp;quot;  I am very interested in hearing how spending $86,000.00 to $500,000.00 in monies for these trips is in the best interest of the public. I and every taxpaying citizen is keeping your business going and you decide to show your gratitude by spending money like it was going out of style. Even your PR campaign of &amp;quot;all non-essential conferences, meetings and activities that do not clearly maximize value and service given the current conditions&amp;quot; has gone bye-bye. You feel the need to take top executives out for wining and dining and bird hunting while your company teeters on the edge of bankruptcy or is it that the Federal Reserve is taking over your losses and risk so you feel it proper to spend more money because the federal government will bail you out if you make more mistakes?  I personally would take back every penny you have received from the government since you have no idea how to run your business or use this money with humility and reverence. We, the taxpayers, are keeping your business going and you feel that it&amp;#039;s ok to spit in our face and think we are rather naive about your expenditures. Do I get to look forward to a revelation like that one from Lehman Brothers that you paid off your top five executives with over $100million in incentives before they let their business go bankrupt. According to the Times Online, &amp;quot;THE Lehman Brothers board signed off on more than $100m (59m) in payouts to five top executives just three days before the bank went bankrupt leaving thousands of employees out of work in London.&amp;quot; Since you are the board I find it interesting that faced with certain economic uncertainty the board of Lehman Brothers decided to pay out, jump out, and let the employees fend for themselves over the scraps. If Lehman Brothers is willing to do this to their employees and you are willing to do this to the American taxpayer, how do you think that sits well with the people paying your salaries (at the moment) or keeping you going. Talk about greed and avarice. If I was a representative for my state I would have voted down the bailout especially to your company.  Sincerely, xxxx  I also sent this to every news station I could think of. Maybe much won&amp;#039;t come of it but you never know until you try.
