 FAQs      Please see the following frequently asked questions to assist you in continuing to do business with AIG Agency Auto.      Is AIG Agency Auto being sold?   Yes. AIG has announced its intention to offer AIG Agency Auto for sale. While AIG&amp;#039;s asset sales are not finalized please be assured that your book of business is safe. Although AIG intends to sell AIG Agency Auto, we are a strong and well-capitalized company and will continue to serve our policyholders, agents and brokers.      Why is AIG Agency Auto being sold?   Our parent company, AIG, recently received a credit line from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to assist with their short-term liquidity issues. AIG is selling certain assets and subsidiaries in order to repay the loan.      Why did the government extend a line of credit to AIG?   The government loaned our parent company up to $85 billion to help with our operations. We would like to make clear that the financial issues of our parent company do not impact our ability to pay claims and underwrite new policies.      Who is buying AIG Agency Auto?   AIG has announced its intention to sell AIG Agency Auto; however, we do not yet know who the buyer will be. While AIG&amp;#039;s asset sales are not finalized, you can be confident that your book of business is safe.      How does the sale of AIG Agency Auto impact my book of business?   AIG Agency Auto Operations, including Claims Services, will continue to function in the efficient manner that you have come to expect and we are excited and look forward to what our future holds.      Will I continue to receive my commission payments on time?   AIG Agency Auto will continue to meet its agent and broker obligations, including the payment of commissions.      Is the name of your company changing?   At this time we will continue to operate as AIG Agency Auto.      If my insured has a claim, will AIG be able to pay it?   Yes. AIG is able to pay all valid claims. Our insurance companies remain strong and well capitalized. The sale will not diminish our ability to pay claims, including large individual claims and multiple claims in the event of a natural catastrophe.      Is AIG bankrupt?   AIG is not bankrupt. The financial issues of our parent company do not impact our ability to pay claims and underwrite new policies. Our insurance companies remain strong and well capitalized. AIG Agency Auto will continue to provide world class service to our policyholders, agents and brokers. 
