ARE YOU NUTS,SONIA:  A.I.G. Takes Its Session in Hot Seat  By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and SHARON OTTERMAN Published: October 7, 2008  A day after Richard S. Fuld Jr. was compelled to explain the millions of dollars he made at Lehman Brothers, two former executives of the American International Group took their turns in government witness chairs on Tuesday, answering critical questions from lawmakers about business and pay practices and outsize spending that continued even after the company received an $85 billion lifeline from the government.  One particular point of contention during the hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee was a weeklong retreat that a life insurance subsidiary, AIG General, held for its top sales agents at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, Calif., only a week after the government extended its $85 billion loan last month.  The $442,000 in expenses for the week included $150,000 for food and $23,000 in spa charges, according to documents obtained by the committee.  Mr. Sullivan was criticized for his reassurances to investors about A.I.G.s health in December despite warnings from company auditors that its exposure to those contracts was growing.  And many legislators berated the two men for large pay packages dispensed to top executives despite evidence that the companys financial health had begun deteriorating in 2007. Mr. Sullivan was questioned by several lawmakers over why he had requested that accounting losses from A.I.G.s exposure to these swaps be excluded from calculating one particular compensation plan.  The two former executives also took criticism from their outspoken predecessor, Maurice R. Greenberg, who sought to deflect responsibility in a statement to the committee. Yet Mr. Greenberg, who also questioned the need for the governments de facto takeover of the company as part of its rescue package, declined to appear, citing illness.  The nearly five-hour hearing was the second this week held by the House committee after the pointed questioning on Monday of Mr. Fuld about the collapse of Lehman, the investment bank he led. Committee members, led by Henry A. Waxman of California, are seeking more information from troubled financial companies after the passage of the Bush administrations $700 billion bailout plan last week and the chaos gripping the markets.  A.I.G. had to be bailed out by taxpayers because of your investments in credit-default swaps, Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York, said. I dont believe any of your management deserves a bonus.  A.I.G. is blaming its downfall on accounting rules which require it to disclose losses to its investors, the witness, Lynn E. Turner, said. Thats like blaming the thermometer, folks, for a fever.  Instead, lawmakers focused on efforts by company management to shield inquiries into the London subsidiary that had underwritten the derivatives contracts that became devalued during the global credit crisis.  Both PricewaterhouseCoopers, the companys auditor, and an independent accountant complained of a lack of access to the London unit and its leader, Joseph Cassano. Mr. Cassano has continued to draw $1 million a month in consulting fees from A.I.G. He earned $280 million over the last eight years.    http://www.nytimes.com/2008/10/08/business/economy/08insure.html?em    
