 NEW YORK (Reuters) - American International Group Inc, a day after being   criticized for a lavish event held just days after the insurer got an   $85 billion government rescue loan, shot back on Wednesday saying the   event was for independent life insurance agents, not its employees.   AIG drew fire at a congressional hearing on Tuesday for spending   $200,000 on hotel rooms and $23,000 on spa services at an event   lawmakers characterized as an executive retreat.   As lawmakers grilled former top executives, Rep. Elijah Cummings, a   Maryland Democrat, said: &amp;amp;quot;They were getting facials, manicures and   massages, while the American people were footing the bill.&amp;amp;quot;   On Wednesday, AIG said the &amp;amp;quot;business event,&amp;amp;quot; hosted by one of its   subsidiaries, was for independent life insurance agents. It said the   event was planned &amp;amp;quot;months before&amp;amp;quot; it received the loan last month, and   no AIG executives from headquarters attended.   AIG&amp;#039;s effort to correct the record on the event came after White House   spokeswoman Dana Perino had added on Wednesday to criticism of the   event.   &amp;amp;quot;I understand why the American people would be outraged,&amp;amp;quot; she said at a   White House briefing.   President George W. Bush did not intend to benefit industry titans when   he approved the bailout of AIG and a wider $700 billion Wall Street   rescue package, she said.   &amp;amp;quot;Rewarding failure is something we have a very hard time swallowing,&amp;amp;quot;   Perino added.   AIG said current Chief Executive Edward Liddy had written a letter to   Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to clarify the circumstances of the   business event.   The company said Liddy assured Paulson that AIG now faces very different   challenges, saying: &amp;amp;quot;(W)e owe our employees and the American public new   standards and approaches,&amp;amp;quot; and that the company is &amp;amp;quot;re-evaluating the   costs of all aspects of our operations...&amp;amp;quot;   AIG said 10 employees from its subsidiary, AIG American General,   attended the 100-guest event.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer, with additional reporting by Andy   Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Tim Dobbyn)    Thomson Reuters 2008 All rights reserved 
