Wabash National Corporation provided an update on the status of its delayed annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.   In a recent filing, the company said it was unable to complete and file the Form 10-K by its original due date because it was continuing to assess its financial position and liquidity requirements in light of recent and ongoing economic conditions that have negatively impacted the company's operating results and caused instability in the capital markets. Wabash reported a net loss of $124.7 million on net sales of $836.2 million in 2008 compared to net income of $16.3 million on net sales of $1.1 billion.   As part of this process the company said it has been negotiating amendments to its revolving credit facility with consortium of lenders led by Bank of America as agent. This process has required a substantial commitment of the company's resources and has impeded its ability to finalize its financial statements. Wabash said it anticipates filing the delayed Form 10-K by April 15, 2009.   The company said it was in compliance with its financial covenants under its revolver at December 31, 2008; however, because it has not delivered audited financial statements to the lenders by March 31, 2009, an event of default will be deemed to occur under the facility, which will permit the lenders to increase the interest on the outstanding principal by 2%, to cause an acceleration of the maturity of borrowings, to restrict advances, and to terminate the credit facility. The company said it is negotiating a forbearance agreement with the lenders to address the consequences of the default and noted that if a satisfactory amendment cannot be reached, there is substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern.   Dick Giromini, president and CEO, said, 'Our priority continues to be working diligently with our lenders to renegotiate our revolving credit facility and improving our liquidity position. However, as stewards of the Company we recognize our responsibility to act prudently, and thus, we are exploring all of our options to maximize shareholder value.' 
