Superannuation funds had another negative month in February, but are likely to recoup those losses and more after equity markets rallied in March, a report says.  The report by research firm Super Ratings on Thursday also said not-for-profit funds had higher returns than retail funds over the past 10 years as they more actively managed asset allocation, based on the outlook of different markets.  The median 'balanced' super fund returned a negative 3.66 per cent in February and negative 19.73 per cent in the 12 months ended February 28, Super Ratings found.  Over the longer term, returns were positive, with a 3.67 per cent per annum rolling five-year return to February 28 and a 4.77 per cent return for the 10 year period.'March is set to recoup the loss and finally add some positive cash flow to Australians super accounts,' the report said.'A sharp rally in both Australian and International share markets should see many balanced options recording close to a four per cent increase for March, offsetting not only February but part of January's losses as well.'Still, balanced super funds were set to deliver negative returns, in the double digits, for the second financial year in a row, according to the report.  The Super Ratings report said not-for-profit funds had tilted their asset allocations, depending on the outlook of different markets, such as by increasing the weighting of Australian equities within portfolios.  In contrast, retail funds usually rebalanced their balanced funds, often daily, back to the original asset allocations, irrespective of the outlook.  Retail funds had also favoured listed property trusts for exposure to the property market, whereas not-for-profit funds preferred direct property.  This had led to retail funds returning more in the property sector right up to October 2007.  Since then, retail funds had a 49.9 per cent per annum negative return from their property investments, against the 6.5 per cent negative return in the not-for-profit sector, as listed property trusts plunged in value.  Not-for-profit funds had also been willing to invest in alternative investments such as infrastructure and private equity more than their retail counterparts, and had reaped the rewards.  Some of the top 10 balanced investment options over the last five years were MTAA Super, which returned 8.1 per cent per annum, Buss(Q), which returned 6.6 per cent and Hostplus, which returned 6.2 per cent.  Of the top 10, nine were not-for-profit funds and the other was the Commonwealth Bank of Australia's employee fund. 
