    Jack Tupp wrote:     &amp;lt;quoted text&amp;gt; They fought for the CBA so there would be an even playing field with a salary cap, just like the NFL which means teams like the Packers can compete with the Dallas organizations of the league. Don't forget that 30% of the NHL revenues come from the 6 teams in Canada which 20% of the number of franchises. Granted the low Canadian dollar at the moment is hurting (80 cents US) but what sector of the economy is not taking a hit. Alberta is feeling the economic pinch as well, but with oil and natural gas our main commodities it is less severe than other parts of the continent as we sell our products mainly to US customers who pay in greenbacks. My point being that many fans still have disposable cash. Add in the fact, it is the only show in town (no NBA, MLB) and you have a capative audience. Heck, the Oilers pay per view games cost $14 apiece or $120 for 10 games a year and pretty much all fans have no problem with paying that so there are other revenues/sponsorships coming in. The new owner (he took over as of last June) has also commited to spending at the cap level every year and is putting up his own money to build a new rink similar to the Columbus model with retail and such surrounding the facility which generate additional revenues. Now Phoenix, Atlanta, Nashville, Buffalo, Tampa and, dare I say, Florida are the teams that may not have a future.     The numbers say otherwise regarding Edmonton being able to spend. Forbes' rankings of team revenues for 2008 put Edmonton in 20th, with $85 million. That ranks them at the bottom of all Canadian teams. They also rank 20th (and last among Canadian teams) in terms of franchise value at $175 million. But it is interesting to note that while Florida's numbers are not far off from Edmonton's, Florida posts a net loss while Edmonton is listed as being profitable.(Having said that, I think the Panthers' numbers are not accurate, as I don't think they fully reflect all of SSE's (Sunrise Sports &amp;amp; Entertainment) revenues from operating the BankAtlantic Center and their other ancillary business interests.)
