         No there's not a lot of "ifs". The big assumption is the salary cap, which is quite possible to be in this range.  The rest of the "ifs" are irrelevant because  if for example Ohlund doesnt come back, we need to replace him with a similar d-man otherwise our defense will be pathetic.  Same with the Sedins up front, only replacement will likely be even more expensive. Salo isnt going anywhere unless he's bought out and I dont even know if that is possible in the cba at his age. And Bieksa and Edler are not going anywhwere either unless a similar player comes back, they are already signed and will be the core of our defense for years to come.  We dont have any young defensemen coming up in the next couple of years, nor is it easy to trade for a young d-man on an entry level contract. To have a playoff-calibre defense it likely will cost 16-17 million, and Luongo is unlikely to be had any cheaper than 7 million. That's 23-24 million right here. Good luck figuring out how to get 12 forwards for 21 million. Hodgson should be a good fit at the rookie maximum and thats about all we have, nobody tell me Grabner and Raymond are going to be on our first line.    Yes those are A LOT of ifs...Just skimming through I counted 10.  Now, as for the Ohlund comment. Funny, same thing was said when the team let Jirke Lumme go.Then Brian Burke traded for Ed Jovanovski. Then the same thing wassaid forJovocop."How will the team replace him? We don't have any good young defensemen". Then 2 defensemen that were considered low end prospects emerged. Bieksa and Edler.You have no idea what defensemen willdevelope and which ones won't.You have no idea what trades Gillis or whoever is GM will make. Besides, you are assuming that Ohlund wants to stay here for 4 mill.  Simply put, the team won't be able to keep everyone. But that does not mean they can't be replaced. I highly doubt if both Ohlund and Salo are on this team in 2011. One or both will be gone. And they will be replaced. If Burrows asks for the moon, guess what? See ya later, you can be replaced. The twins? Nobody knows what's going to happen there. To say for sure that they will be signed is ridiculous. In this economy, almost anyone of high price could go. Except for the one player that can make the biggest difference. Roberto. 
