This coming week could be a very very bleak one. We will begin to see more retail giants bite the dust big time, and more banks fall deeper into the hole. Last week we saw the fall of Circut City in the US as well as Bank of America needing another $20bn bailout while Citigroup was forced to unveil a break-up. And Barclays Bank shares plummeted 25 per cent. &#8230; &#8220;Some analysts in the US now believe that Citi and possibly Bank of America may have to be nationalised to draw a line under their woes. Ireland announced the nationalisation of Anglo Irish Bank late on Thursday to stop a run on its deposits and shares.&#8221;  See story HERE And according to Ambrose Evans-Pritchard at The Telegraph, over half of Europe has just entered a DEPRESSION not a Recession as most believe.  &#8220;Events are moving fast in Europe. The worst riots since the fall of Communism have swept the Baltics and the south Balkans. An incipient crisis is taking shape in the Club Med bond markets. S&amp;P has cut Greek debt to near junk. Spanish, Portuguese, and Irish bonds are on negative watch. Dublin has nationalised Anglo Irish Bank with its half-built folly on North Wall Quay and 73bn (65bn) of liabilities, moving a step nearer the line where markets probe the solvency of the Irish state. A great ring of EU states stretching from Eastern Europe down across Mare Nostrum to the Celtic fringe are either in a 1930s depression already or soon will be. Greece&#8217;s social fabric is unravelling before the pain begins, which bodes ill. Each is a victim of ill-judged economic policies foisted upon them by elites in thrall to Europe&#8217;s monetary project  either in EMU or preparing to join  and each is trapped. &#8220; See story HERE And yes crime is and will continue to be on the increase. I see it happening where I live in Spain and in parts of Britain there are at least admitting to so &#8230; &#8220;Robbery and burglary are on the rise across the country, almost doubling in some areas, according to figures that provide the first evidence that the economic downturn is fuelling crime. Figures obtained by The Independent from police forces across England and Wales show that cases of burglary or robbery rose in 31 of the 43 forces in the final four months of the year in comparison with the same period in 2007. In those 31 areas an extra 5,572 crimes of burglary and robbery were committed in the final months of 2008, compared with the previous year. &#8221; See The Independent UK story HERE Posted in 1   Tagged: crime, crisis, economics, meltdown        
