NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Effective Jan. 14, 2009, Fitch Ratings will upgrade the long-term rating to 'AA+' from 'A+' and assign a short-term rating of 'F1+' to the New York State Housing Finance Agency (NYSHFA) $88,750,000 (currently outstanding) 2003 series M refunding service contract revenue bonds, sub-series M-1 and M-2 (the bonds), consisting of $63,750,000 of the series 2003, sub-series M-1 and $25,000,000 of the series 2003, sub-series M-2. The rating actions are being taken in connection with the: (i) conversion of the interest rate on the bonds from an auction-rate mode to a weekly-rate mode on Jan. 14, 2009; (ii) addition of an irrevocable, standby letter of credit provided by Bank of America, N.A. (the bank) (rated 'AA-/F1+' by Fitch); (iii) reoffering of the bonds in a weekly-rate mode and (iv) cancellation of the financial guaranty insurance policy relating to the bonds provided by Ambac Assurance Corporation. On Jan. 14, 2009, the scheduled effective date, the rating on the bonds will be based on the support of the standby letter of credit provided by the bank and the application of Fitch's joint probability methodology. The upgrade in the long-term rating to 'AA+' rating will be based jointly on the underlying rating assigned to the Bonds (currently rated 'A+' by Fitch), issued by NYSHFA, and the support provided by the standby letter of credit provided by the bank, securing the bonds. Principal and interest on the bonds are payable from amounts appropriated annually by the State of New York (the state) and paid to NYSHFA under a service contract. The short-term 'F1+' rating is based solely on the LOC.  The long-term 'AA+' rating is based on Fitch's methodology which considers the joint probability of the failure of both a rated obligor, in this case the state, and the lowest rating of the bank providing LOC support. The methodology results in a rating that is up to two notches higher than the stronger of the two credits (the bank and the underlying rating assigned to the bonds) if the following conditions are met: (1) both entities have a rating of 'A' or higher; (2) the transaction is structured such that payments from both the obligor and the bank are in the flow of funds and both entities would have to fail to perform before the bonds defaulted; and (3) the credit of the obligor and the bank have no more than a medium degree of correlation. In this instance, Fitch has determined that there is a low degree of correlation which results in a rating of 'AA+'. If either the underlying bond rating or the Bank were downgraded to 'A-' or lower, the joint probability could no longer be applied and the long-term rating would then reflect the higher of the rating assigned to the underlying bond rating and the rating based on the LOC.  The rating will expire upon the earliest of: Jan. 14, 2012, the stated expiration date of the LOC, unless such date is extended; any prior termination of the LOC; and defeasance of the bonds. The LOC provides full coverage of principal plus an amount equal to 56 days' interest at a maximum rate of 12%, based on a 365-day year and purchase price for tendered bonds. The remarketing agent for the sub-series 2003M-1 bonds is Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and Ramirez &amp;amp; Co., Inc. is the remarketing agent for the sub-series 2003M-2 bonds.  Following the conversion, the bonds will bear interest in a weekly interest rate mode, but may be converted in whole to a daily, monthly, quarterly, auction mode, adjustable periods or fixed-rate mode. While the bonds bear interest in a weekly interest rate mode, interest payments are the 15th day of each month, commencing Jan. 15, 2009. While bonds bear interest in the weekly mode, bondholders may tender their bonds with the required prior notice to the tender agent, all as set forth in the series resolution.  The bonds are subject to mandatory tender on: (1) on the date of conversion to a different interest rate determination method; (2) any date upon which an alternate letter of credit is substituted for the existing letter of credit; (3) 15th day prior to the stated expiration of the letter of credit; (4) on the date that the letter of credit bank fails to reinstate the reinstate the letter of credit; (5) on the date the letter of credit bank fails to honor a draw on the letter of credit; (6) upon receipt by the trustee of notice from the letter of credit bank that an event of default under the reimbursement agreement has occurred. Optional and mandatory redemption provisions also apply to the bonds.  Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site.
