NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Aetna Inc backed its 2008 and 2009 profit outlooks on Monday and said it will provide investors with more information about its financial strength amid worries about the balance sheets and capital positions of health insurers. Shares of the No. 3 U.S. health insurer rose 7.2 percent after it affirmed its 2008 forecast of $3.90 to $3.95 per share, excluding items. Bank of America analyst Brian Wright said in a research note it was important that Aetna backed its forecast after closing its November books. The move should help alleviate concerns that its results would be hurt by medical claims carrying over from prior quarters. Aetna said it will hold a conference call on Tuesday to provide information about its balance sheet, capital position, cash flow, capital deployment, investment portfolio and pension plan. The company said in October that pension expenses caused by the weak markets would weigh on next year's profit, which it expected to rise by 3 percent to 5 percent over this year. On Monday, it also affirmed 2009 expectations, although it said that was subject to pension expenses that will be determined by where the market stands at the end of 2008. 'With the continued volatility in the capital markets, there has been significant interest from investors and analysts with respect to our balance sheet, capital position and other related aspects of our investment portfolio,' Chief Financial Officer Joseph Zubretsky said in a statement. The call, he said, 'will provide additional information about our portfolio so that investors have a more comprehensive view of why we are confident that Aetna has the financial strength and flexibility to manage in the current economic environment.' Aetna's shares rose $1.51 to $22.52 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Health-insurer shares have been hit hard this year as worries about their balance sheets and capital strength compounded a raft of profit warnings earlier in the year that sparked fears of a sector downturn. Through Friday, Aetna shares had fallen some 64 percent this year, compared with a 62 percent drop for the S&amp;amp;P Managed Health Care index. (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf, editing by Dave Zimmerman and Jeffrey Benkoe) Keywords: AETNA/ (lewis.krauskopf@thomsonreuters.com; 646-223-6082;Reuters Messaging:Lewis.Krauskopf.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
