By Zhou Xin BEIJING, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Chinese insurance firms should focus on improving their own businesses and supporting efforts to stimulate the domestic economy, not on buying cheap assets overseas, the industry's top watchdog said on Saturday. A manager at China Life, the world's biggest life insurer by market value, told Reuters last month that the firm was interested in buying Asian businesses of American International Group Inc. AIG, once the world's biggest insurer, is putting its non-essential assets up for sale after receiving a $152 billion bailout from the U.S.  government to avoid bankruptcy as it reels from the global credit crisis. Asked at a financial forum whether insurers should venture outwards by buying assets of insurers such as AIG, Wu Dingfu, chairman of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission, said: 'In my personal opinion, it looks tempting, but if you really do it, there will still be lots of difficulties involved.' Wu said that there had much discussion over the issue, and some domestic insurers had proposed making such purchases. 'The conclusion is, at present, domestic insurers should grasp the opportunity to get their own things done well,' he said. Chinese insurers still have many things to improve in their own businesses, including basic infrastructure such as information technology systems, corporate governance, and providing better services so as to support the domestic economy, Wu said. 'It looks like we have lots of money, but actually there are many places to spend it. At this critical moment, the money should be spent where it can be put to best use,' he said. BUYING MORE STOCKS Wu encouraged insurers to put more of their money into China's stock markets, which have taken a battering this year in the wake of the financial crisis and China's own economic slowdown. Wu noted that insurers had only around 8 percent of their assets in shares, well below a government-mandated limit of 15 percent that he suggested was itself flexible. 'Even for the 15 percent, we could still raise it a little bit,' he said. Wu added that he wanted insurance companies to invest more in infrastructure projects, as a way of supporting China's 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion) stimulus package. They should also play a stabilising role in the property and auto markets, he said without elaborating. Wu's comments feed into a debate in Beijing over whether China should take advantage of share price falls to build positions in overseas financial and natural resource companies. Potential obstacles to the success of overseas acquisitions include cultural and management differences, which could make it difficult to retain employees and managers at any business insurers might take over, he said. Yet Ma Weihua, chief executive of China Merchants Bank , the country's biggest non-state lender, told the same forum that Chinese banks should continue to expand abroad. He cited Merchants Bank's recent acquisition of Wing Lung Bank in Hong Kong as an example of an investment that may need time to become profitable, but will serve as an important launching board for future expansion. 'Chinese banks still need to go ahead with globalisation. Such a strategy should not be changed, despite the global financial crisis,' Ma said. (Writing by Jason Subler; Additional reporting by Langi Chiang; Editing by Lincoln Feast) Keywords: CHINA ECONOMY/INSURANCE (jason.subler@thomsonreuters.com; +8610 6627 1215; Reuters Messaging: jason.subler.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
