TORONTO, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Insurance credit rating agency A.M. Best Co said on Monday that it believes 'unprecedented negative financial conditions' will pose difficulties for Canadian life insurers well into 2009. 'Canadian life insurers are experiencing mounting pressures as the global financial crisis hampers their ability to maintain a conservative capital base as well as sustain the favorable revenue and earnings streams recorded in recent years,' Best said in a commentary. Although the outlook is currently stable for 'the vast majority' of Canadian life insurers, the rating agency said that this could change if the economy deteriorates, which would likely bring higher credit defaults, equity market volatility, lower consumer confidence and weaker product sales. Best said it currently expects any negative rating actions to be company specific. 'However, continued macroeconomic deterioration would lead to a change in outlook and negative rating changes for the entire segment.' The rating agency also noted that certain insurers with a lot of exposure to equity markets -- either through their segregated fund products or their asset management units -- will be most affected by financial turmoil. It said companies with exposure to these products have recently bolstered their capital position by issuing debt or equity when liquidity is at a premium, 'resulting in less than optimal pricing.' Last week, Toronto-based Manulife Financial Corp, the largest life insurer in North America, sold C$2.125 billion in common shares at C$19.40 each, near the bottom of its 52-week trading range of C$16.28 to C$42.14. As stock markets decline, Manulife has to set aside increasing amounts of money in reserve for future payouts to variable annuity and segregated fund policyholders. Great-West Lifeco, Canada's second-largest life insurer, last month raised C$230 million in a preferred share issue. Sun Life Financial has not recently issued shares but agreed to sell its minority stake in money manager CI Financial to Bank of Nova Scotia for C$2.3 billion in cash and Scotiabank shares. That deal is due to close this week. ($1=$1.25 Canadian) (Reporting by Lynne Olver; editing by Rob Wilson) Keywords: CANADA INSURERS/ (lynne.olver@thomsonreuters.com; +1 416 941 8099; Reuters Messaging: lynne.olver.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright  
