Truck manufacturer Navistar International Corp. on Wednesday announced that it had earned $50 million to $70 million more in the nine months ended July 31 than it had earlier stated. The increase translates to 68 cents to 95 cents a share.  The company said it sold as many trucks in 2008 as it anticipated, but it earned expected profits earlier in the year. The company still expects $467 million to $548 million in profit for 2008, or $6.35 to $7.45 a share.  Navistar subsidiary International Truck and Engine employs 1,400 in Fort Wayne.  Navistar blamed weak truck sales when it announced this month that it cut 250 jobs, most of them from corporate headquarters in Warrenville, Ill. Severe weather across the U.S. has caused a delivery backlog at FedEx Corp., prompting the shipping company to take the extraordinary step of keeping all of its domestic sorting stations open for four hours today  from 8 a.m. to noon  to allow customers to pick up packages.  Bigger rival UPS Inc. plans to maintain its tradition of giving all U.S. employees Christmas Day off, spokesman Norman Black said. The U.S. Postal Service typically makes Express, or overnight, deliveries on Christmas. It will have tens of thousands of people working today because of the backlog due to the weather, spokeswoman Sue Brennan said. Insurer American International Group Inc. said Wednesday it bought $16 billion of complex financial instruments in an effort to further reduce its exposure to insurance guarantees written against them.  AIG bought about $16 billion in investments known as collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, through a financing company set up by the insurer and the government to help relieve AIG of its exposure to the riskiest portion of the credit markets.  By purchasing the CDOs, AIG has eliminated its exposure to insurance-like contracts, called credit default swaps, written to cover defaults on the CDOs.  CDOs are securities backed by pools of mortgages or other assets. They have plummeted in value since the credit crisis erupted more than a year ago as investors fled all but the safest forms of debt.  Credit default swaps essentially insure against the default of bonds and corporate debt such as CDOs. Discount carrier Southwest Airlines Co. sold five aircraft for $175 million and agreed to rent the planes back from the buyer for 12 years.  The Dallas-based airline also modified its fuel hedge portfolio to limit its exposure from falling oil prices.  The disclosures were made in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing late Tuesday.  The company said it entered into a two-part sale and leaseback transaction with an unidentified third-party aircraft lessor for the sale and leaseback of Boeing 737-700 aircraft.  Under the first part of the deal, which closed Tuesday, the airline sold five of the aircraft and agreed to lease them back and continue to operate them and maintain them. Southwest will make monthly payments totaling roughly $7.8 million for the five aircraft for the first six months of the leases. The payments will be reset every six months.
