U.S. stocks slipped early Thursday after J.P. Morgan Chase announced a surprise profit that was offset by new economic data reinforcing investors' recent fears of a long-lasting economic slowdown. Just after the opening bell, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 108 points, or 1.3%, at 8091.90. Its component J.P. Morgan rallied more than 4% after it announced a 76% plunge in quarterly profit but managed to stay narrowly in the black, averting investors' and analysts' worst-case fears. Other blue-chip financial names traded lower, led by a 15% slide in Bank of America following a report in The Wall Street Journal that it is moving closer to getting billions of dollars more in aid to close its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. Analysts increasingly fear that the bank may need to take more steps to bolster its capital as it absorbs Merrill Lynch and its other large acquisition, mortgage giant Countrywide Financial. 'Even with help from the government, we think BAC's tangible equity levels are low relative to peers,' analyst Stuart Plesser said. 'It will need to cut its dividend and or raise equity capital in the coming months.' Citigroup was also a big decliner among the Dow's components, off more than 12%. The S&amp;P 500 slipped 0.9% to 835.38, led by a nearly 3% decline in financials. The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite Index was down 0.6%, trading at 1481.15, hurt by a 4% decline in Apple due to concerns about the health of Chief Executive Steve Jobs. Jobs said late Wednesday that he is going to take medical leave. Speculation about Jobs' health has dogged Apple shares in the past and raised fresh questions about a company that is so closely identified with its co-founder. In economic news, initial jobless claims jumped by 54,000 to 524,000 last week, while U.S. producer prices fell for a fifth-straight month in December on steep declines in energy and food prices. As expected, the European Central Bank cut its main interest rate by a half percentage point. The euro advanced against the dollar and the yen during as post-meeting news conference by ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet. The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 turned edged higher in recent trading. Light, sweet crude sank by 20 cents to $37.08 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Asian shares crumbled under heavy selling pressure after Wednesday's slide in U.S. markets, with resource and financial stocks hit the hardest on a retreat in commodity prices and a tumble on Wall Street overnight. Japan's Nikkei lost 4.9%. 'People tried to talk themselves into investing in the market, but the global economic situation is only getting worse. Now they're starting to see the picture and can't fool themselves. So, they've started selling all over again,' said Steve Cheng, associate director at Shenyin Wanguo. -David Benoit contributed to this article -Contact: 201-938-5400 
