By Parvathy Ullatil HONG KONG, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares gave up early gains to fall 0.5 percent on Wednesday, hurt by news Bank of America was selling a China Construction Bank stake, triggering worries of a similar equity sell-down in other lenders. 'Investors are quite bearish about Chinese banks in the first half of 2009 with the central bank expected to cut interest rates further, piling on pressure on earnings,' said Patrick Shum, strategist with Karl Thomson Securities. 'And strategic investors will continue to sell their shares as they need the money,' he said. Chinese telecom stocks fell further after Beijing confirmed it was handing out the long-awaited licences for next generation (3G) mobile networks Wednesday afternoon. China Unicom, which soared nearly 17 percent on hopes for an imminent issuance of the 3G licences pulled back 5.2 percent to HK$9.74 while China Mobile gave up 1.5 percent. The Hang Seng Index ended the morning session 82.2 points lower at 15,427.31 after opening up 1.6 percent. Blue chip laggards continued to gain as investors bet U.S. and Chinese stimulus measures would help mitigate the impact of the worst global recession in decades on corporate bottom-lines. Taiwanese handset maker Foxconn International Holdings , which was 2008's worst performing blue chip, soared 16.6 percent, taking its total gains since the beginning of the year to nearly 70 percent. CITIC Pacific, another stock that was hammered down in 2008 after revealing a $2 billion hedging loss, vaulted 16 percent. Mainboard turnover rose to HK$43.2 billion as compared with HK$30 billion by midday Tuesday, supporting a 3.2 percent gain in bourse operator Hong Kong Exchanges &amp;amp; Clearing (HKEx). The China Enterprises Index of top locally listed mainland Chinese firms slipped 1.5 percent to 8,511.16, weighed down by losses in banking shares. China Construction Bank slid 5.8 percent to HK$4.19 while top lender ICBC gave up 5.6 percent to fall to HK$4.03. Bank of America is selling more than 5.62 billion shares, or nearly 13 percent of its holding, in Construction Bank at HK$3.92 apiece, a 12 percent discount to the stock's last closing price. Shares in Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp (SMIC) soared 7.3 percent after sources said that China's top contract chip maker was discussing the possibility of selling a strategic stake to Intel Corp. Future cooperation between the two might include a $2.5 billion chip plant which Intel began building in the northeast Chinese city of Dalian in 2007, the sources told Reuters Tuesday. Shares in power equipment maker Shanghai Electric Group slid 10.5 percent after it cut its net profit forecast for 2008. The company said late on Tuesday its net profit for 2008 may come in 10 percent to 13 percent under its original 2.9 billion yuan ($424.2 million) forecast made last November as customers deferred delivery of its products.  (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Keiron Henderson) ASIA-PACIFIC STOCK MARKETS: Pan-Asia...... Japan........ S.Korea.... S.E. Asia............ Hong Kong... Taiwan..... Australia/NZ......... India....... China...... OTHER MARKETS: Wall Street........... Gold......... Currency..  Eurostocks........... Oil........... JP bonds... ADR Report.......... LME metals.. US bonds... Stocks News US... Stocks News Europe... DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary European diary Taiwan diary Wall Street Week Ahead Eurostocks Week Ahead World forecasts TOP NEWS: For top Asian company news, double click on: U.S. company news European company news Forex news Global Economy news Technology news Telecoms news Media news Banking news Politics/General news Asia Macro data A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: http://topnews.session.rservices.com LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Currency rates Dow Jones/NASDAQ Nikkei FTSE 100 Debt Hong Kong Dollar LME price overview Keywords: MARKETS HONGKONG STOCKS (Reuters Messaging: parvathy.ullatil.reuters.com@reuters.net; +852 2843-6415) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
