NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- The stock market's ongoing slide on Thursday had the Dow Jones Industrial Average mired in its longest losing streak since early October in the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s going belly up, marking the start of the ongoing crisis for financials. 'Today is another example of how the end-of-the-year enthusiasm has run into the cold hard reality of how bad the news is,' said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies &amp; Co. As has been the case in recent days, financials and energy shares fronted the declines, while defensive plays -- namely health care and consumer staples -- bled the least. On the Dow, Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shed an astounding 20-plus percent of their market value within the first two hours of trade. Investors blasted Bank of America after a report the government is dipping into its $700 billion bailout war chest to help the firm digest its acquisition of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Read more. Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shares were slammed ahead of the bank's fourth-quarter earnings report on Friday, with the firm expected to report a loss of as much as $10 billion. On Thursday, a triple-digit slide had the Dow Jones Industrial Average ($INDU:$INDU Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) precariously close to breaching the 8,000 level. At last check, the blue-chip index was off 161.36 points, or 1.9%, at 8,041.96, with all but two of its 30 components posting declines. The S&amp;P 500 ($SPX:$SPX Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shed 19.81 points, or 2.3%, to 822.81, while the Nasdaq Composite (COMP:COMP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) declined 24.15 points, or 1.6%, to 1,465.49. The Dow's triple-digit slide marks the longest losing streak since the eight-day drop that ended Oct. 10. That particular bout of declines ended with the Dow rallying more than 900 points on Monday, Oct. 13, on global government intervention to revive the banking sector. Prior to the October's eight-day run of loses, the Dow's longest losing streak involved an eight-day drop that ended Sept. 21, 2001. 'The last two weeks of December and the first week of this year, there was a certain amount of enthusiasm based on three things: excitement about aggressive money policy, excitement about aggressive fiscal stimulus, and the inherent optimism that historically comes with the start of a new year. Unfortunately you have to juxtapose that against a much harsher reality when we look at the magnitude of issues we're facing,' said Hogan. The return of fear is reflected in the CBOE Volatility Index, which is up 5.09 to 54.23 and back to levels last seen on Dec 16. VIX is up 40.6 percent, or 15.67 points, since Jan 6. 'The ongoing trouble in the financial industry seems to be the primary factor underlying the big spike in volatility over the past seven trading sessions,' said Frederic Ruffy, options strategist, WhatsTrading.com. Kate Gibson is a reporter for MarketWatch, based in New York.
