(Adds quotes, information, updates/adds market levels)  SINGAPORE (MarketWatch) -- Asian shares were mostly a little higher Thursday, helped by a bounce in financial stocks, though Japan's Nikkei 225 faltered as exporters were hurt by the yen's gains so far in January.  Korea's Kospi Composite was up 0.6% while Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 added 0.7% and New Zealand's NZX-50 gained 1.1%; Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index was up 0.9%.  The Nikkei was down 0.2%; 'selling by European funds continues to drag on the Nikkei,' said Akida Ishida, head of the equities department at Chuo Securities, with European funds adjusting their portfolios given the recent drop in the euro/yen rate.  Among Japanese exporters, Toyota Motor was down 3.5%, Honda Motor off 5.0%, and Canon down 3.5%, with data showing exports in the country sank 35.0% in December from a year earlier, the third-straight month of decline.  Overall volume for Asia was low and trade fairly cautious. 'The overnight gain in the U.S. markets seemed to be a technical rebound, and is likely to have a limited positive impact on local stocks,' said Lee Jin-woo at Mirae Asset Securities in Korea.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 3.5%, recapturing roughly 85% of Tuesday's drop as a rebound in the financial sector ignited a broader rally.  Nasdaq futures were lending some support in Asia, rising 1%. Apple added 7.8% after-hours as its fiscal first-quarter net income rose 1.9% on strong iPod sales, even as it predicted second-quarter results would miss Wall Street's expectations.  EBay however dropped 5.8% in late trade as its fourth-quarter net income fell 31%; the online auctioneer issued a first-quarter view below analyst estimates.  Also, Intel said it'd consolidate manufacturing in a bid to get its capacity in line with market conditions. The closures of five older facilities would affect 6% to 7% of its 83,900 employees.  'We remain bearish on risky assets in the near term. We think weak economic data globally and poor profit reports will continue to weigh' on sentiment, said analysts at Calyon.  Banking stocks were a bright spot in Asia. In Australia, Commonwealth Bank of Australia was up 4% with ANZ Bank adding 3.8% and QBE 3.3% higher; Japan's Nomura Holdings was up 3.4% and Daiwa Securities up 5.3%, while in Korea, KB Financial was 5.5% higher and Woori Finance up 10%.  Resource stocks were mixed after London Metal Exchange metals fell Wednesday in London (copper lost 4.0%). BHP Billiton was down 0.6% though Rio Tinto gained 4.2%.  Some chip-related stocks fell in Tokyo with the Intel news damping sentiment. Tokyo Electron fell 2.2% and Advantest 1.2%. Advantest was expected to post a consolidated operating loss of about Y15 billion for the nine months through December 2008, the Nikkei reported.  Sony was down 2.2% as the company said it would close one of two domestic TV manufacturing plants.  Gains in Korean shares were limited by a report showing the economy put in its worst performance in almost 11 years in the fourth quarter. GDP fell a seasonally adjusted 5.6% from the previous three months.  Kia Motors was flat after an early fall, with news its fourth quarter net profit jumped 97% from a year earlier, helped by a weaker won and new cars; peer Hyundai Motor was due to report its results later Thursday.  In Hong Kong, markets were higher but trade was winding down before the Chinese New Year holiday next week; 'trading interest is unlikely to be strong and investors may sell into strength if stocks shoot up after their recent sharp declines,' said Conita Hung at Delta Asia Securities.  HSBC gained 3.4% after a recent heavy sell-down, though it was already off its early high.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 1.2% with gains in healthcare stocks after Beijing said it would spend more than $120 billion over three years on the sector; Shinva Medical Instrument added 7.7%.  E-mail  Print  Disable Live Quotes  Subscribe to RSS  1   2  Top stories  6:14 PM today  8:27 PM today  5:21 PM today  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2009 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
