Article from:   The Australian  BANKS dragged shares to a two-month low today after the Royal Bank of Scotland's profit warning sent shockwaves through world markets.  The Australian dollar retreated back below US67 cents and mining and energy producers were also sharply lower after aluminium and crude oil weakened.  Fragile investor sentiment was also rattled by a European Commission warning that economic conditions were much worse than previously thought.  The S&amp;P/ASX 200 was down 125.2 points, or 3.5 per cent, to 3464.1, its lowest level since November 24, around the time shares crumbled to their lowest level in almost five years.  The All Ordinaries was lower by 117.4 points to 3413.6.  US markets were closed for the Martin Luther King Jnr public holiday.  Cameron Stockbrokers client adviser Adrian Leppinus said: The market has gone into plain selling mode.  Normally we look at the US and we can get some direction, but because we didnt have that everyone has looked at the banking crisis in the UK and is thinking what happens there may well happen here.  The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index fell 1.7 per cent to 189.62 amid concerns the UK Governments latest move to prop up the ailing financial sector would be insufficient, while the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) warned it could be on track to produce the biggest annual loss in UK corporate history.  RBS shares fell as much as 71 per cent at one stage.  Adding to woes, the European Commission warned the Eurozone region would contract by 1.9 per cent this year, revising a forecast made in November for growth of 0.1 per cent, and European Central Bank president Jean-Claude Trichet said the global economic outlook was substantially worse than the ECB predicted last month.  Standard &amp; Poors also downgraded Spains credit rating.  IG Markets head of dealing Oliver Stevens said: People have looked at whats happening in the UK with the housing market and rising unemployment and the effect that is having on bad debts and are thinking thats what we are heading for.  We are probably six to nine months behind the UK market but we seem to be accelerating towards it.  Westpac led the Big Four banks lower, falling 4.5 per cent to $15.36. National Australia Bank dropped 4.5 per cent to $18.56, Commonwealth Bank shed 4.1 per cent to $26.31 and ANZ gave up 4.6 per cent to $13.76.  The sell-off has come at a particular bad time for Westpac which is offering shareholders the chance to increase their stake in the bank through a share purchase plan, priced at $16 a share.  BHP Billiton fell 4.8 per cent to $28.91 and Rio Tinto lost 5.8 per cent to $38.18 as it struggled to sell assets due to the global credit crunch.  Woodside Petroleum was down 3.4 per cent to $33.12 after crude fell in overnight trading, with the March Brent contract on London's ICE futures exchange dropping $US2.21 at $US44.36 a barrel.  The Australian dollar fell to US66.55 cents from yesterdays close of US68.12c after the weak lead from European shares and lower commodity prices sapped demand for risky currencies.  Investors around the world are pinning their hopes on US president-elect, Barack Obama, swiftly enacting an $US825 billion ($1247 billion) stimulus package to drag the worlds biggest economy out of the worst recession in decades.  But forecaster Access Economics said yesterday any action in the US will be too late to save Australia from recession this year as the Chinese economy grinds to a halt.  The grim forecast, coupled with a key inflation gauge showing Australia was heading for a period of deflation, was followed by a warning from Prime Minister Kevin Rudd yesterday that the impact of the global financial crisis would be big.  
