NEW YORK, Jan 15 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks tumbled on Thursday as news of a push by Bank of America for more government aid added to worries about mounting credit losses in the financial sector.   Shares of Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank, were a top drag on the Dow, with a drop of 27 percent to $7.44. Shares of Citigroup tumbled 23 percent to $3.49 a day before the bank was due to report its quarterly results and new strategic direction.   Investors feared a need for more government aid in the financial sector pointed to mounting credit losses as the year-long recession deepens. The S&amp;P financial index fell 7.6 percent.   'I think it's tremendously disappointing that the banks continue to flounder,' said Carl Birkelbach, head of Birkelbach Management in Chicago.   'What's going on here is that the first batch of the (financial rescue bailout) funds was supposed to put out the fire, but now it looks like the fire is coming up again.'   The Dow Jones industrial average slid 155.23 points, or 1.89 percent, to 8,044.91. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index tumbled 18.22 points, or 2.16 percent, to 824.40. The Nasdaq Composite Index plummeted 26.37 points, or 1.77 percent, at 1,463.27.   Citi shares have been on the defensive since the bank announced the sale of a controlling stake in its Smith Barney retail brokerage business, a crown jewel, to Morgan Stanley to replenish capital.   (Additional reporting by Ryan Vlastelica, Editing by James Dalgleish) Keywords: MARKETS STOCKS  Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 
