Corrects second paragraph to show JPMorgan results were not as bad as expected for some investors.  * JPMorgan results reassure, stock rises  * BofA heightens fears about financial sector health  * Apple to drag tech after CEO's medical leave of absence  * For up-to-the-minute market news, click [STXNEWS/US] (Recasts first paragraph)  NEW YORK, Jan 15 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were set to open little changed on Thursday as reassuring quarterly results from JPMorgan Chase were offset by worries stemming from news of a push by Bank of America for more government aid.  Although JPMorgan's fourth-quarter profit slid 76 percent from a year earlier as the bank wrote down bad loans and set aside money to cover mounting credit losses, the results were not as bad as expected for some investors. For more see [ID:nN1491543].  The company's underlying performance suggested that the No. 2 U.S. bank was navigating the financial crisis with more success than its rivals, analysts said.  'Most people consider them to be perhaps the strongest bank out there. They really have battled to be profitable,' said Rick Meckler, president of investment firm LibertyView Capital Management in New York, adding:  'So it doesn't speak well of those that are not in good shape. The initial reaction was very positive, but now people are starting to consider what the outlook is for those banks that are not nearly as well positioned. We are not out of the woods at all.'  Shares of Bank of America dropped 3.4 percent to $9.85 before the bell, but shares of JPMorgan climbed 3 percent to $26.70.  S&amp;P 500 futures shed 3.10 points and were below fair value, a formula to evaluate pricing taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average futures were off 9 points while Nasdaq 100 futures slipped 7.50 points.  Some encouraging economic reports were also set to cushion the market.  According to a person familiar with the matter, Bank of America , the largest U.S. bank, is close to getting billions of dollars more in federal support from taxpayers. For more, see [ID:nN14486706].  Shares of Apple Inc were set to drag on Nasdaq after the iPod and iPhone maker said Chief Executive Steve Jobs had decided to take a leave of absence due to health issues. The stock was off 4.2 percent to $81.72 before the bell. (Reporting by Ellis Mnyandu; Editing by James Dalgleish)  
