LONDON (MarketWatch) -- European shares fell for the seventh session in a row on Thursday, as economic troubles pressured banks once more and prompted the European Central Bank to slash interest rates. The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index (ST:SXXP: news , chart , profile ) fell 0.9% to 191.17 in a choppy session, with banks the worst performers once more. 'There are a lot of question marks being posed again on the banking sector from both sides of the Atlantic and that weighs heavily,' noted Edmund Shing, strategist at BNP Paribas. On Thursday, the European Central Bank lowered its key interest rate by 50 basis points to 2.0%, matching an all-time low.  In comments made after the rate decision, Trichet said the February meeting of the rate-setting Governing Council doesn't mark an important date for policy makers, saying the next important policy meeting will come in March. 'Our projection is that they will cut at least by another 50 basis points in the coming months. They more or less announced that they will not cut in February,' said Oliver Eichmann, senior fund manager at DWS Investment in Germany. Shing added: 'Every data point either on the micro or the macro side can lead to volatility spikes and that's what we're seeing at the moment.' 'I think we will get volatility in the next couple of months but by March we'll have a better view on company guidance for 2009,' he said. 'We might see leading indicators bottom out and then people may be prepared to lay some bets as to the rest of the year,' Shing added. On a national level, the German DAX 30 index (DX:1876534: news , chart , profile ) fell 1.9% to 4,336.73, the French CAC-40 index (FR:1804546: news , chart , profile ) declined 1.8% to 2,995.88 while the U.K. FTSE 100 index (UK:UKX: news , chart , profile ) closed down 1.4% at 4,121.11 U.S. stocks wobbled in early trading on Thursday, with results from J.P. Morgan not enough to restore faith in the U.S. financial sector. Asian markets ended lower.   On Wednesday, the Stoxx 600 index closed with a 4.4% loss, pulled down by sharp price falls from banks such as HSBC Holdings (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) (UK:HSBA: news , chart , profile ) , Deutsche Bank (DE:514000: news , chart , profile ) , and Barclays (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) (UK:BARC: news , chart , profile ) . HSBC Holdings was hammered by worries about capital and dividend levels, Deutsche Bank said that it would post a fourth-quarter loss and Barclays is going to cut thousands of jobs. Across the Atlantic, fears over a government injection sent Bank of America shares to 17-year lows. On Thursday, HSBC Holdings fell another 7%, while Barclays shares dropped another 8.2% and Deutsche Bank shares fell 6%. Deutsche Postbank (DE:800100: news , chart , profile ) , another sharp decliner on Wednesday, plummeted 18.7% on Thursday. The lender was cut to underweight from neutral by J.P. Morgan, which sees the revised terms announced on Wednesday for a Deutsche Bank stake as negative for shareholders. 
