By Claire Zhang SHANGHAI, Jan 9 (Reuters) - Chinese stocks edged up on Friday, with shares in power generators leading on speculation that the sector might be the next to receive financial assistance from the government. The Shanghai Composite Index ended the morning up 0.28 percent at 1,883.524 points. Gaining Shanghai A shares outnumbered losers by 592 to 281, but turnover in Shanghai A shares shrank to a modest 22.8 billion yuan ($3.3 billion) from Thursday morning's 29.4 billion yuan. Guanxi Guiguan Electric Power advanced 4.10 percent to 6.86 yuan after saying it had obtained 30 milllion yuan in aid from the central government for rebuilding after last May's earthquake in southwest China. The amount of money was small, but some investors speculated that power generators would receive further official aid as the government spends funds under a 4 trillion yuan economic stimulus package; last month, the government agreed to provide cash injections to major airlines. Datang Power, part of the same group as Guiguan Electric, surged 8.01 percent to 7.28 yuan. But airline shares were weak on Friday because of a poor traffic outlook as the economy slows, despite news that the government would also give carriers three-year exemptions from tax on fuel surcharges, which the official Shanghai Securities News said would save them some 2.5 billion yuan. China Eastern Airlines lost 2.65 percent to 4.40 yuan and China Southern dropped 1.17 percent to 3.38 yuan. 'The cash injections into airlines will not change the basic weakness of the industry. Similarly, power firms' costs have been rising while power prices are under state control, so power shares' surge may just be short-term speculation,' said Wu Nan, analyst at Xiangcai Securities. BANKS Bank shares stabilised after falling sharply over the previous two days on news that Bank of America and Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing were selling some of their holdings in top Chinese banks, which prompted fears of more such sales. Bank of Communications, which had dropped 3.51 percent over the previous two days, edged down only 0.20 percent to 4.94 yuan on Friday after HSBC said it had no plan to cut its 19.01 stake in BoCom, and intended to strengthen its cooperation with the Chinese bank. The Shanghai Securities News quoted analysts as saying this week's big bank share sales were due to the overseas investors' own financial difficulties, so Chinese investors should not panic about the long-term prospects for China's banking industry. However, Wu said local investors might remain cautious about bank shares for a while. 'They still worry that Bank of America might be the first in a series of dominos,' he said. Royal Bank of Scotland is considering selling its 4.3 percent stake in Bank of China as part of a review of its international assets, it said on Thursday. Bank of China slipped 0.34 percent to 2.93 yuan. The official China Securities Journal reported that only around 20 percent of China's 1,600-plus listed firms had estimated earnings would rise 50 percent or more for 2008, about half the number in 2007. ($1 = 6.83 yuan) (Editing by Andrew Torchia) ((junjie.zhang@thomsonreuters.com; (8621) 6104-1775; Reuters Messaging: junjie.zhang.reuters.com@reuters.net)) Hong Kong report Taiwan report Shanghai indices Shenzhen indices Hong Kong indices H-share index Red share index SPEED GUIDES RELATED NEWS AND OTHER TOPICS China news All equity news Greater China news Chinese summary Hong Kong news Chinese hot stocks Taiwan news China IPOs Chinese diary Hong Kong IPOs Press digests Keywords: MARKETS CHINA STOCKS MIDDAY (Multimedia versions of Reuters Top News are now available for: * 3000 Xtra : visit http://topnews.session.rservices.com * BridgeStation: view story .134 * Reuters Plus: from your WebDSS screen For more information on Top News, visit http://topnews.reuters.com) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.. 
