A surprising profit at J.P. Morgan Chase wasn't enough to quell investors' renewed skittishness about the overall health of Wall Street and the possibility of a recession that will grind through the end of the year, at the very least. Financial names led another broad-based market decline, leaving the Dow Jones Industrial Average on pace to post a seventh straight daily decline. The blue-chip measure was recently down 149 points, or 2%, at 8050.48, hurt by declines in all its financial components. Among them, J.P. Morgan managed to post an early gain but slumped to trade more than 3% lower in recent action. The banking giant announced a 76% plunge in quarterly profits but managed to stay in the black, averting investors' and analysts' worst-case fears. Among the other Dow stocks, Bank of America plunged 26% following a report in The Wall Street Journal that it is moving closer to getting billions of dollars more in aid to close its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. Analysts increasingly fear that the bank may need to take more steps to bolster its capital as it absorbs Merrill Lynch and its other large acquisition, mortgage giant Countrywide Financial. 'Even with help from the government, we think [Bank of America's] tangible equity levels are low relative to peers,' analyst Stuart Plesser said. 'It will need to cut its dividend and or raise equity capital in the coming months.' Citigroup was also a big decliner, off more than 25%. American Express fell more than 4%. The S&amp;P 500 slipped 2.5% to 821.35. All its sectors traded lower, led by a nearly 6% decline in financials. Energy, industrials, basic materials, and technology were also under pressure, with each group down about 2% in recent action. The tech-focused Nasdaq Composite Index was down 2%, trading at 1459.65, hurt by a 5.4% decline in Apple due to concerns about the health of its chief executive Steve Jobs. Jobs said late Wednesday that he is going to take medical leave. Speculation about Jobs' health has dogged Apple shares in the past and raised fresh questions about a company that is so closely identified with its co-founder. In economic news, initial jobless claims jumped by 54,000 to 524,000 last week, while U.S. producer prices fell for a fifth-straight month in December on steep declines in energy and food prices. As expected, the European Central Bank cut its main interest rate by a half of a point. The euro advanced against the dollar and the yen during as post-meeting news conference by ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet. The pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 turned edged higher in recent trading. Asian shares crumbled under heavy selling pressure after Wednesday's slide in U.S. markets, with resource and financial stocks hit the hardest on a retreat in commodity prices and a tumble on Wall Street overnight. Japan's Nikkei lost 4.9%. Commodity prices fell. Crude-oil futures shed $1.03 to trade at $36.25 a barrel in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index fell more than 1%. Treasury prices were little changed. The two-year note slipped 1/32 to yield 0.734%. The 10-year note edged up 1/32 to yield 2.201%. The dollar strengthened. One euro cost $1.3087, down from $1.3160 late Wednesday. One dollar fetched Y89.23, up from Y89.06. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
