Profitable or not for the moment, Wall Street's major players are still ailing, their long-term health compromised. That was the market's message on Thursday as a surprising quarterly profit at J.P. Morgan Chase wasn't enough to quell investors' renewed skittishness about the overall financial sector. Shares of rivals Bank of America and Citigroup were hammered, helping the broader market continue its downward grind. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently down 135 points, or 1.6%, at 8065.78, on pace to post a seventh straight daily drop. J.P. Morgan managed to post a 1% gain after posting a profit of 7 cents a share for the fourth quarter. Though the banking giant remained in the black, earnings were off 76% from a year ago and Chief Executive James Dimon said loan demand 'is dropping rather dramatically.' In addition to their concerns about the market's fundamentals, investors were also paying close attention to key price points below which the market might gain downward momentum as automated orders get triggered. The Dow has come close to the psychologically important 8000 level on Thursday, but it hasn't broken through. The last time the blue-chip measure finished below 8000 was Nov. 20, when several major indexes hit their lowest point during the latest bout of crisis on Wall Street. Many veteran traders and analysts believe the market is likely to test those levels again in the coming weeks, though there is some disagreement over whether the old lows will hold, considering the continuing flurry of fourth-quarter profit reports that is likely to contain more nasty surprises. 'A lot of sins were priced in at the lows,' said portfolio manager Linda A. Duessel, of Federated Securities in Pittsburgh. She believes the market's November trough is likely to withstand the latest burst of selling - an outlook that has led her to advise clients to put some money to work in beaten-down sectors. But, she adds: 'We don't tell anyone to bet their whole wad. You have to peel back into this market, respecting all the problems that are still out there.' But some participants are more pessimistic. Unless the government steps in again to support the banking sector, the stock-market lows of Nov. 20 of 7552 on the Dow and 752 on the S&amp;P 500 will likely be taken out in the foreseeable future, said Lorenzo Di Mattia, manager of hedge fund Sibilla Global Fund. Bank of America plunged more than 20% following a report in The Wall Street Journal that it's moving closer to getting billions of dollars more in aid to close its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. Analysts increasingly fear that the bank may need to take more steps to bolster its capital as it absorbs Merrill Lynch and its other large acquisition, mortgage giant Countrywide Financial. 'Even with help from the government, we think [Bank of America's] tangible equity levels are low relative to peers,' analyst Stuart Plesser said. 'It will need to cut its dividend and or raise equity capital in the coming months.' Citigroup was also a big decliner, off almost 18%. Shares of the bank have been hammered all week as the company indicated it was moving away from the banking supermarket business model it embraced in recent years. The losses for the big banks infected the broader financial sector, dragging down the stock market. The S&amp;P 500 fell 2.3% to 823.50, pulled down by a plunge of 5.8% in its financial sector, which is now down by more than 20% for the year just two full weeks into 2009. The energy and industrial sectors were also under pressure, each sliding more than 2%. The technology-focused Nasdaq Composite Index was down 1.6%, trading at 1465.16, hurt by a 5% drop in Apple on worry about the health of Chief Executive Steve Jobs. Jobs said late Wednesday he would take a medical leave from the company. Asian shares crumbled under heavy selling pressure after Wednesday's slide in U.S. markets, with resource and financial stocks hit the hardest. Japan's Nikkei lost 4.9%. Stocks in Europe crumpled as U.S. markets fell, with the U.K.'s FTSE 100 and Germany's DAX moving lower. Commodity prices fell. Crude-oil futures shed $1.79 to trade at $35.49 a barrel in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index fell about 1%. Treasury prices were mixed. The two-year note slipped 2/32 to yield 0.750%. The 10-year note slipped 3/32 to yield 2.216%. But the 30-year bond rose 17/32 to yield 2.867%. The dollar strengthened. One euro cost $1.3080, down from $1.3160 late Wednesday. As expected, the European Central Bank cut its main interest rate by a half of a point. One dollar fetched Y89.555, up from Y89.06. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
