 It is about time...Real Cowboy fans, looking for real talent...The Kitna move isn't that bad, it is not Brad Johnson, or Brooks Bollinger bad, but it is bad, Kitna, will be able to win a few games, and he will not be limp in the pocket. The Cowboys aren't looking for anyone to unseat Romo, although he might unseat himself. The guy hasn't prove anything to me yet, so they had to get a guy who could carry this team if need be. This camp the front office guys needs to pay close attention to Romo, I think they overpaid him, and should be recouping some of their money...Tthe Brookings deal, the same as Zach Thomas...The Cowboys can't run at the linebacker spot...Thomas and Brookings would be on the sidelines on most of the top tier teams, so what makes us think we can put them on the field and expect to win, unless we are going to ask for more out of Ware and James...It is a bad move, there were  Bart Scott,  Ray Lewis,  Channing Crowder,   Jon Vilma,   Dansby,  even our own Keivn Burnett out there, and instead we opt for our current roster of Zach Thomas, Keith Brookings, and Bobby Carpenter. If Bradie James gets hurt, could you see it Zach Thomas and Keith Brookings with carpenter as the back up...The real problem with the Cowboys, the common denominator is the Owner, and President, playing the General Manager. If Jerry were to at least bring in a GM, he would at least has some other ideas floated his way. Right now it is all Jerry all the time, and while he can be commended for some good move, the only move everyone sees him make are the bad ones. Jerry, you have to stop making the priority SIGNING OLD RETIRING, CAREER PROLONGING, AGING, VETERAN, SLOW, LINEBACKERS, please...    Scott signed huge deal with the Jets, out of our price range X2..........Lewis as I have said all along more than likely just using Dallas to drive price up in BLT. Crowder re-signed before FA even began. Vilma said early on he wanted to return to the Saints. He never went to see any other teams. Oh side note on him traded from the Jets because he had no place in a 3-4. What kind of D do we play here? Dansby got taged did you want to give up a bunch of cap space (if we even had it) and 2 first round picks?  Burnett? I'd like to keep him however given given his history in the NFL the one thing you know about him is he can't be counted on to start 16 games he's hurt every year, So while I'd like him back I would not break the bank for him either.  Face it myround0 it just like I have been telling you and others all these last weeks we don't have the cap room to go after those guys. We just don't.   But here's the good news. After the draft there will be some quailty Footballs left out there. Due not only to the current CBA but the failing economy as well.   No one beats on Jerry as much I do around here. And I hated the Kitna deal. trade or just signing him out right. But this is a good year to sit back and wait.   The only thing I can hope for in the way of Kitna is because we traded for him we don't take on his bonus. So if like last year later on a better option becomes available. Leftwhich, Culpepper, ect.....We can cut ties with Kitna at no cost to our cap.  
