   stuporman wrote:    R-DAWG wrote:    stuporman wrote: LeBron or Wade are not coming to NY....no matter how much you hope.     Durant...mebbe...Dwight...love it but not a great chance. Rose?  Um....not likely.  Who says the Knicks will overpay for their role players?  Both say they want to be Knicks for life and the market will probably help the Knicks.  LeBron or Wade......     laugh all you want, because you are so sure that they are staying put.  In fact they are so happy in their citied that when Carmello signed a long term deal they only signed 4 year deals.  As I keep saying, and you keep missing, you need to lay the foundation before you build the house.  Of you can not sign that player, you need to be bad enough to draft him.  or you can resign all your quality role players, compete for the 5th-8th seed every year, maybe win a serries or 2.  Joe Johnson might take you to the 4th seed.  Look at our success since Ewing left.  Look at every championship team.  Look at the 5 best teams in the league, what do they have in common, they have a franchsie player.    I WANT A CHAMPIONSHIP.  Nate and Lee are not leading me there.    The reason for the shorter deals was the CBA expiring. That simple.   They are not coming to play for the Knicks.    you dont get it.  good thing you are not the GM.  I have stated in almost every thread that if they dont sign here, so be it.  We then focus on being position to draft a franchise player, something that bringing back your great role players will hurt.    like I keep saying, and you keep ignoring, IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A FOUNDATION YOU CAN NOT BUILD A BUILDING.   and in the NBA, franchise player=foundation.  Right now, the Knicks need to do whatever is possible to get that franchise player, then worry about surounding him with role players.    But, as far as I can tell, you are happy being a medicore team, peaking at 41-45 wins a year and maybe winning a playoff serries or 2.  I've been there, done that in the late 90's.  I want the championship.  We have been the laughing stock of the league for so long, whats the difference if it takes untill 2012 to get the franchise player in place, we need to get that player.  Because, we will go NO WHERE without it.
