  One, I said that based on the contract they gave Ludwig they are expecting him to contribute some. I gave the numbers of 25/80/.280. So, it is not as if I had expected him to do nothing. But they really do not expect him to be of longer term value. If they thought he was going to have for three years the kinds of numbers I suggest above, you bet they would have made the contract longer if not for more money also. But they really do ot feel so sure about that.   What? What does his contract have to do with anything? He was arbitration eligable with 3 years left. What are they supposed to do again? Ignore his arbitration years and give him a giant contract off 1 year? Seriously, your comment makes no baseball or business sence.   They would have given him the longer contract even if they expect the likes of Rasmus and Wallace to start contributing. If the sixth or seventh hitter can give a team 25/80/.280 a year, that team is a contender. If they really believed Ludwig was of that quality , they would have given him a three years deal. But the truth of the matter is that they have very strong doubts about his future performance. And he doesn't get the longer contract because what they are trying to do is fill the spot for this year just in case Rasmus and Wallace falter.    They would not have given him a larger contract. They game him a fair contract based on the CBA and rules of arbitration, Which I belive was a $4 million raise.    Why would they only give him a 3 year deal if they have him under contract for 3 years?    Truth of the matter is you do not really understand the concept on which you are talking about.   We know for a fact that, unless injured, one can expect Ludwig to be a 15/60/.260 man at the very least, and that is what he is getting paid to do. He is expected to fill the hole in the outfield if need be. If he produces a 30/100/.290 or better this year, we definitedly got a bargain two years in a row.   I noticed that   Motte did not get a raise this year. Guess they are about to release him correct?     
