PRAGUE -(Dow Jones)- European finance ministers pointed to recent changes to U.S. accounting rules as a source of concern, with most clamoring that European rules also change to avoid giving U.S. banks a competitive advantage.  'We need a level playing field,' said French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde. She cited an 'urgent need to reexamine accounting principles.'  Her colleagues at the informal two-day summit in Prague that ended Saturday agreed, issuing a statement calling for the issue to be addressed 'immediately' and noting the U.S. rules 'could provide (U.S.) financial institutions with much more flexiblity' to navigate the current credit crisis.  But Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg warned that, while global accounting standards should be uniform, they should also be rigorous. 'For us, it's also very important that the value of an asset is the value of an asset,' he told Dow Jones Newswires.  The kerfuffle emerged after a Thursday decision by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, to allow banks and other companies to use looser measure to assess the fair value of some of their assets. The decision, which was praised by senior U.S. bank executives and will allow mortgage giants such as Fannie Mae to reduce their need for public capital injections, opens the way for companies to use more of their own judgment rather than relying on mark-to- market rules.  'Accounting rules appear cold and technical but ideologies lurk within them,' said Giulio Tremonti, Italy's' finance minister.  'The Americans, who were supporting the mark-to-market principle, suddenly changed their minds,' he added. 'Europe should follow.'  Critics say mark-to-market rules are procyclical, creating misleading profit booms when economic growth is strong but exaggerating technical losses during busts and thereby prompting banks to pull back on lending during economic downswings.  In the euro area, credit growth has steadily decelerated in recent months even as the European Central Bank has slashed interest rates and offered better and longer terms for providing liquidity to the banking sector.  France's Lagarde said that the region's finance ministers will ask the European Commission to pressure the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, to 'examine the modifications needed for the valorization of impaired assets.'  In their joint statement, the ministers said the U.S. rule changes were made ' with the aim of accurate valuation of assets in illiquid markets.'  Sweden's Borg, however, sounded a note of caution. 'If there are problems within a balance sheet, we don't solve the problem by hiding it,' he said.k 'The principle of transparency is the most efficient way of dealing with this problem of impaired assets.'  Coordinated efforts such as the trillion-dollar pledges made at the G20 summit in London on Thursday have centered on boosting funds for the International Monetary Fund and expanding regulation of banks and even hedge funds. But there has been little coordination in addressing how banks can tackle their toxic assets in a way that will allow them to focus on lending to businesses and households.  'Cleaning balance sheets in the financial sector is essential,' said Joaquin Almunia, European commissioner for monetary and economic affairs. 'Where necessary, authorities should decide where to act to deal with impaired assets to restore growth,' he added.  Agreement on how has proven to be elusive.  'There are currently no convincing strategies that show the way out of the dilemma,' said German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck.  One approach is to use public funds to set up a bad bank that could take over the impaired assets, allowing commercial banks to return to their core business. U.S. plans to put up equity capital and offer loans aside private investors willing to buy toxic assets from U.S. banks partially resembles this approach.  European countries are averse to that approach. Another option, pushed by Italy's Tremonti, is to ring-fence impaired assets but leave them as the 'bad bank' divisions of existing banks. That would leave shareholders rather than taxpayers footing the bulk of the bill.  At any rate, each E.U. member state should tackle its own problems in its own way, said Miroslav Kalousek, who as the Czech finance minister was the summit's host.  The methods used 'should be fair and not distort competition' but 'we shouldn't say who must do what,' he said.  The finance ministers also hailed progress on establishing a unified and perhaps even single regulatory framework for supervision of the financial sectors of all 27 E.U. members. The U.K., however, remains opposed to having the ECB preside over such a scheme.  Officials from France's Lagarde to Zdenek Tuma, governor of the Czech central bank, acknowledged that compromises would be found. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet emphasized that the ECB's General Council was a suitable forum, even if the Governing Council representing the 16 euro-zone members was not.  There was notably little talk of expanding fiscal stimulus plans to combat a deepening recession in Europe that is expected to push unemployment rates to as high as 11% next year.  ''I'm skeptical of huge fiscal stimulus,' said Kalousek.  Indeed, on Friday the E.U. finance ministers resolved to demand that Greece and Ireland rein in their rising budget deficits this year, while also admonishing France, Spain and the U.K. to take stronger action towards fiscal consolidation.  -By Gabriele Parussini, Leos Rousek, and Christopher Emsden, Dow Jones Newswires; +39-02-58-21-99-05; chris.emsden@dowjones.com (Adam Cohen, Sean Carney, Roman Kessler and Christopher Emsden contributed to this report.)  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 04-04-090942ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc.  
