THE effect of the Rudd handout is waning and the predictions for world growth are frightening, but the indications are that interest rates will remain unchanged.  However, economists said further rate cuts and increased Government spending may be needed in the coming months to protect jobs, with the May Budget tipped to contain more fiscal stimulus.  Acting Prime Minister Julia Gillard yesterday warned that the unemployment rate was likely to overtake the Government's official 7 per cent forecast by the middle of next year, the Herald Sun reported.  Her comments came as Government figures revealed skilled vacancies fell almost 11 per cent in March.  'Since our latest forecast was published we have seen the global recession worsen and dramatic downgrades in global growth,' Ms Gillard told a conference in Adelaide.  'Those global forces impact on our economy and make a period of negative growth inevitable in Australia.'  The Government's updated economics forecasts will be provided in the Budget.  Some economists are already tipping the document will include more short-term fiscal stimulus on top of $8.7 billion worth of cash payments from the Government's latest $42 billion plan.  Retail sales for February announced yesterday showed a surprise 2 per cent slump, as the effect of the cash handouts petered out.  'The February retail sales number suggests fiscal stimulus late last year was critical to supporting spending in the economy,' said ANZ economist Alex Joiner.  'We believe these numbers make the case for the announcement of further short-term fiscal stimulus in next month's Budget.'  The High Court will decide this week whether taxpayers can lawfully receive cash payments as part of the Government's latest $42 billion stimulus plan.  Retailers are banking on another round of payments, saying a spurt in consumer spending in December and January, fuelled by lower interest rates and cash handouts, had slowed.  Margy Osmond, the chief executive of the Australian National Retailers Association, yesterday urged the Reserve Bank of Australia to consider another 50 basis points cut to interest rates next week.  However, economists believe and the market indicates the central bank, which did not cut rates last month, will pause again.  The RBA's interest rate cuts so far, combined with the beefed-up first home grant may have helped the construction cycle bottom, with February building approvals surging 7.8 per cent in their biggest monthly rise since May 2005.  Economists cautioned that the jump was driven almost entirely by a 34 per cent upswing in the volatile apartments sector, but many said the cycle may be bottoming.  
