So, in my perusings on the internets today, I stumbled up on this gem:TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 The week continues with the amazing crime saga that commenced this morning outside a Bank of America in Monroe, Washington, after a man wearing a dark blue shirt, jean shorts, and a dust mask pepper-sprayed an armored-truck guard, seized his bag of money, then ran 100 yards to the Skykomish River to make his escape on an inner tube. Further amazing details come from KING 5, which confirms today's robber not only had serious inner-tubing skills, but also was a dynamite planner: &amp;quot;In case anyone was hot on his trail, he had at least a dozen unsuspecting decoys waiting nearby, which he recruited on Craigslist. 'I came across the ad that was for a prevailing wage job for $28.50 an hour,' said Mike, who saw a Craigslist ad last week looking for workers for a road-maintenance project in Monroe. He said he inquired and was e-mailed back with instructions to meet near the Bank of America in Monroe at 11:00 a.m. Tuesday. He also was told to wear certain work clothing. Yellow vest, safety goggles, a respirator mask... and, if possible, a blue shirt.'&amp;quot; Investigators continue to search for the flash-mob-inspired bank robber, described as &amp;quot;a white man in his 20s, between 5-foot-7 and 5-foot-10.&amp;quot;I think that might be the most *awesome* thing I've ever read (wow, that makes it sound like I don't read much. Hmmm.....) Anyone who shows that much creativity in robbing a bank should, in my humble opinion, not be persecuted. I mean, really, it was kind of the perfect crime. No one was hurt (being sprayed with pepper spray doesn't count), he had the best get-away *ever* (innertubes!!!)&amp;nbsp;and he even included people from Craigslist, with no real risk to them. Instead of persecuting this fine example of personhood, we should instead reward him with a medal or award or some such. Mayhaps the Nobel prize????Just a thought.....Okay, no more flocking around. Back to work.
