Minneapolis / St. Paul Business Journal  Related News  Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and U.S. Bancorp are the two safest banks in America, according to an analysis of the world's banks.  According to Global Finance, which will publish its analysis, Worlds 50 Safest Banks in its April issue, international banks dominate the rankings, which show the effects of the subprime mortgage meltdown and credit crisis brought on by large Wall Street players. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo is the top-rated U.S. bank at No. 21. European banks now dominate the rankings, with only four U.S. banks among the listing.  Wells Fargo (NYSE: WFC) is followed by US Bancorp (NYSE:USB) at No. 26, The Bank of New York Mellon (NYSE:BK) at No. 35 and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (NYSE:JPM)  which has merged with Washington Mutual Inc.  at No. 47.  Four German banks were ranked in the Top 10, with state-owned development bank KfW Bankengruppe at No. 1.  The listings compare long-term credit ratings and other performance measurements and assets.  The rating agencies have determined these banks have demonstrated a more prudent and sustainable approach to risk than their peers, said Joseph Giarraputo, Global Finance publisher.  More than ever customers all around the world are viewing long term creditworthiness as the key feature of the banks with which they do business.  Houston Business Journal  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Metavante launches text-message banking  [Milwaukee]  PNC reduces dividend  [Cincinnati]  JER Investors loses $181M in Q4  [Washington, D.C.]  PNC reduces dividend  [Pittsburgh]  CtW Investment Group calls on BofA to remove Lewis  [Greensboro/Winston-Salem]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Mpls./St. Paul  Extra  Best sports teams  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by  Family Practice / Employed Opportunity with Verifiable Need  Sr J2EE Developer  Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons  Controller - Bermuda  Forensic Psychiatrist  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Twin Cities Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 11,000 SF  Use Type: Sale  Mpls./St. Paul Business Directory  Minnesota Articles Minneapolis Articles Advertising Minneapolis Business Services Minneapolis Career Minneapolis Cars Minneapolis Education Minneapolis Financial Services Minneapolis Health Minneapolis Home Services Minneapolis Insurance Minneapolis Internet Minneapolis Legal Minneapolis Real Estate Minneapolis Software Minneapolis Telecommunications Minneapolis Travel Minneapolis  
