DAYTON, Ohio, March 17 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ --  From March 26-28, 2009, the University of Dayton will host the ninth annual Redefining Investment Strategies Education (R.I.S.E.) Forum. R.I.S.E. brings nearly 3,000 international graduate and undergraduate students and professors together to interact with the world's top financial experts, investment professionals, and industry leaders such as Richard W. Fisher, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and George Kell, Executive Head of United Nations Global Compact.  Characterized by a non-scripted panel discussion format, R.I.S.E. offers students the unique opportunity to lead discussions, ask questions, and participate in conversation that involves them in real world issues and practices that may shape the world's economic future. Over the last eight years R.I.S.E. has hosted students from more than 467 colleges and universities from all 50 states and 83 countries, making it the largest student investment forum in the world.  'The speakers who come to R.I.S.E. each year are the very people whose thoughts and opinions are shaping our world right now. And yet here they are answering a tough, three-part question from a 19-year-old college student. It's a remarkable thing to be a part of,' said Dr. Bob Froehlich, Chairman of the Investor Strategy Committee for Deutsche Asset Management and moderator for all R.I.S.E. panel discussions.  KEYNOTE SPEAKERS  -- Steven G. DeSanctis, CFA, Chief Small Cap Strategist, Merrill Lynch/Bank of America -- C. B. Bhave, Securities and Exchange Board of India -- Patrick Dorsey, CFA, Director of Equity Research, Morningstar, Inc. -- Dr. Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., President &amp; Chief Executive Officer, TIAA-CREF -- Richard W. Fisher, President &amp; Chief Executive Officer, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas -- Dr. Bob Froehlich, Chairman, Investor Strategy Committee, Deutsche Asset Management -- Thomas D. Gallagher, CFA, Senior Managing Director &amp; Chief Political Strategist, International Strategy and Investment Group, Inc. -- Dr. Andreas Hofert, Chief Global Economist, UBS Wealth Management Research -- Dr. Roger G. Ibbotson, Chairman &amp; CIO, Zebra Capital Management, LLC -- Georg Kell, Executive Head, United Nations Global Compact -- Edward M. Kerschner, CFA, Chief Investment Strategist, Citigroup/Smith Barney -- Jeffrey Kleintop, CFA Chief Market Strategist, LPL Financial Services -- Steve Liesman, Senior Economics Reporter, CNBC -- Dr. Robert D. McTeer, Jr., Distinguished Fellow, National Center for Policy Analysis (NCPA) -- Dr. Russell Read, CFA, Founder and CEO for C Change Investments -- John P. Surma, Chairman &amp; CEO, United States Steel Corporation -- Gary Thayer, Senior Economist, Wachovia Securities -- Durmus Yilmaz, Governor, Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey -- Dr. Lawrence Yun, National Association of REALTORS  
