New home sales have surged in January, says the Housing Industry Association.  THE best home affordability conditions in years helped new home sales surge by 19.3 per cent in January, according to the latest survey by the Housing Industry Association (HIA). These results support anecdotal evidence of a strong resurgence in first-home buyer activity in our state, said HIA acting executive director Robert Harding. He said the boosted first-home owners grant propelled the sale of new detached houses, with new home sales up by 16 per cent in the three months to January. Compared with the same three-month period last year, sales are now only down by 2 per cent, Mr Harding said.  Loans on the increase  THERE are more signs that the increase in the first-home owners grant is having the desired effect on the industry, if Commonwealth Bank figures are anything to go by. Home loan pre-approvals applications have more than doubled since the Federal Government announced the First Home Owner boost in October, 2008. Home loan pre-approval applications increased 112 per cent from October 10 to January 30. In the same period, monthly traffic to the banks home loans website increased by 300 per cent, with online home loan applications also up by more than 600 per cent.  Good time for donation  JUST seven months after being set up, the Harcourts Foundation has made its first donation - $51,452.25 to the Red Cross Victorian Bushfire Appeal. The Harcourts Foundation was set up in August last year, with the aim of providing financial support that helps, grows and enriches local communities, and has already received more than $170,000 in donations from Harcourts staff and offices across Australia and New Zealand. Donations are still coming in across Australia and New Zealand for the Victorian Bushfire Appeal, so a second donation will be made to the Red Cross at the end of the month, Harcourts managing director Mike Green said.  Real estate seminars  ANYONE looking for a career in real estate can attend one of four seminars being run by the Barry Plant group this month. Chief executive Mike McCarthy said record sales in January showed the group was defying the economic downturn and had plans to employ about 60 new salespeople. He said previous experience was not necessary. Session details can be found at barryplant.com.au  Man wins EastLink land  A CROYDON man has won a $170,000 block of land at Sandhurst, near Cranbourne, simply by driving on EastLink. Shane Grattidge won the land in the Road Lotto promotion when his name was randomly chosen from almost 3 million eligible trips made on the tollway between November and February.  
