With stock portfolios plummeting and the economy tanking, owners of expensive art are increasingly using their collections as collateral to obtain a much-needed infusion of cash.  Works by Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Willem de Kooning and Andy Warhol are among the pieces collectors have leveraged in recent months. The Metropolitan Opera put up as collateral two famed Marc Chagall murals in its lobby, and renowned photographer Annie Leibovitz recently borrowed $15-million (U.S.) against her entire collection of images.  A New York company that issues loans against fine and decorative arts and real estate says it has seen a 40-per-cent to 50-per-cent increase in business over the last six months. Ms. Leibovitz obtained her loan from the firm, Art Capital. Other celebrities who reportedly have secured funds with their own works include film director Julian Schnabel.  Art Capital co-owner Ian Peck said the firm has 'taken in important modern masters, important old masters and very important decorative arts,' among other valuable pieces. The firm said it expects to make about $120-million in loans in 2009, up from $80-million last year. More  Stories       Go to the  section  Art collections can be lifesavers for people looking for extra cash. The artworks are appraised and treated as collateral just like a car or home would be. Art brokers say that people offering up their collections are doing it for a number of reasons, including dealing with financial issues, raising money for businesses or buying more art. Some of the cash-strapped art owners have been burned by Ponzi schemes, Mr. Peck said.  Art Capital and Art Finance Partners, another New York lending firm, have also started to hear from small museums and other institutions whose endowments have been deeply cut by a severe drop in private donations. 'With the stock market down 40 to 50 per cent, people's liquidity is really drying up,' said Andrew Rose of Art Finance. 'If you're unfortunate to have a lot of stock at Citibank or Lehman Brothers you may have been wiped out substantially.' 
