MIAMI - Tere Blanca, a commercial real estate professional with more than 20 years of transactional and managerial experience, announced recently that she has launched Blanca Commercial Real Estate Inc.  The Miami-based firm will begin providing third-party advisory and transactional services to owners and users of commercial real estate effective April 1.  Blanca, who also serves as chair of The Beacon Council, Miami-Dade Countys official economic development organization, will lead the firm. Joining Blanca as executive vice president will be Danet Linares. Linares brings more than 15 years experience leasing and marketing a number of Miamis premier commercial properties, including Wachovia Financial Center, Bank of America Tower at International Place, and most recently, Brickell Financial Centre.  Blancas decision to launch the firm follows her tenure as senior managing director and branch manager for Cushman &amp; Wakefield of Florida. Under her leadership, the firms South Florida operation grew its leasing and property management portfolio from 3.5 msf to 10 msf and achieved consistent revenue growth and profitability.  Prior to joining Cushman &amp; Wakefield, Blanca was senior vice president at Codina Realty Services, where she leased more than 2 msf of office space and managed in excess of $200 million in commercial real estate leasing and sales transactions, making her one of the firms top brokers.  Linares joins the firm after serving as senior vice president and director of real estate services for Foram Group, the Miami development firm currently building Brickell Financial Centre. From 2004 to 2008, Linares managed leasing for Miamis iconic Bank of America Tower at International Place. Here, she engineered one of the most remarkable turnarounds in downtown Miami office market history, increasing occupancy by more than 25% over a three-year period - from 74% in 2004 to 97% in 2007.  Prior to this success, Linares worked as a senior leasing associate for CB Richard Ellis, where she was part of the leasing team for Wachovia Financial Center, Floridas largest office tower.  
