 PNRCY LLChas bought the 106-room Econo Lodge at 2745 Airways Blvd. near Memphis International Airport for $1.7 million from R &amp; B Lodging Inc. PNRCY, whose principal is Chirag Patel, had been leasing and managing the hotel for nearly two years. The company had signed a commercial lease with an option to purchase the hotel in April 2007.  The 45,970-square-foot Econo Lodge was built in 1983 and sits on 3.01 acres at the northwest corner of the intersection of Airways and Democrat Road. The Shelby County Assessor of Propertys 2009 appraisal is $1.6 million.  The sale also included a 3,373-square-foot restaurant, which sits on a 0.63-acre outparcel of the hotel. The restaurant also was built in 1983.  Records show that it was formerly called Jazz Caf, but a phone listing indicates the restaurant is no longer there. Its 2009 appraisal is just shy of $400,000. A hotel representative said the company is looking for a new tenant to occupy the restaurant space.  The transaction included an assignment of leases and rents. PNRCY financed the purchase with a $1.4 million loan through Citizens Bank.  Source: The Daily News Online &amp; Chandler Reports  Edge Neighborhood Apts. On CCRFC Agenda  Among the items that will be discussed today by the Center City Revenue Finance Corp. is a payment-in-lieu-of-taxes (PILOT) application at the request of Memphis Housing LLC for an apartment project at 607 Monroe Ave.  The development would consist of one four-story building with 38 two-bedroom apartments and 12 one-bedroom apartments and be built in the Medical District neighborhood known as The Edge. Construction is proposed to begin in April and wrap up by January.  Meanwhile, the CCRFC also has received a PILOT application at the request of Riverside Bluffs LLC for a residential and parking facility to be built at 717 Riverside Drive, which is the location of The Horizon condominium project.  The CCRFC meeting will begin at 9 a.m. at the Center City Commission office, 114 N. Main St.  Sunridge Complex Foreclosed; To Be Sold March 31  The Sunridge Townhouses complex at 4990 Stage Road, west of Covington Pike and southeast of the Raleigh Springs Mall, has been foreclosed and will be sold on the courthouse steps, according to a notice on Page 36 of todays print edition of The Daily News. It also can be found at The Daily News Online, www.memphisdailynews.com.  The apartments owner, Sunridge Townhouses LP, defaulted on an original loan taken out in September 1998 for $1.5 million through Federal Financial Savings Bank.  Sunridge Townhouses sit on a 7-acre lot on the north side of Stage Road. The Shelby County Assessors 2008 appraisal of the property was $1.2 million.  The property will be sold March 31 at noon on the steps at the southwest corner of the Shelby County Courthouse.  TN Prosecutors, Cops Want Tougher Crime Laws  Leaders of a law enforcement coalition say Tennessee needs tougher laws to keep repeat criminals behind bars.  The Tennessee Public Safety Coalition  which is made up of prosecutors and law enforcement officials across the state  is taking its call for tougher laws to the state Legislature in Nashville.  In Memphis on Monday, members of the group could not estimate how much their proposals would cost to implement, but said lawmakers should give public safety a higher priority than they do now  and find the needed funds.  Proposals pushed by the coalition would result in longer prison sentences for violent criminals, burglars and gang members.  FDIC Has Funds But Would Like More  The head of the agency that insures bank deposits said it has plenty of money to cover any failures but it would like a bigger cushion.  Sheila Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., said Monday the agency has set aside $22 billion to cover any projected losses over the next year, leaving $19 billion.  Bair said, however: Wed like a bigger cushion. Wed like to be prepared for all contingencies.  She said the agency is increasing its reserves through a hike in insurance premiums paid by U.S. banks and thrifts.  So far this year, 17 federally insured banks have failed. The FDIC believes U.S. bank failures will cost the deposit insurance fund more than $65 billion over the next four years. The FDIC insures bank accounts for up to $250,000.
