MOSCOW, March 10 (Reuters) - A Moscow court has adjourned the Russian government's $22.5 billion lawsuit against the Bank of New York Mellon (News) while the two sides discuss a possible settlement, a court judge said on Tuesday.   Negotiations over the size of the settlement, however, are likely to be difficult, as the two sides voiced radically different ideas about how much it should cost to end the case.   The bank's lead outside council said $1.4 million could be a reasonable starting place for the negotiations.   For nearly two years, the Russian government has been seeking compensation from the U.S. bank after a former vice-president helped transfer $7 billion out of Russia in the late 1990s through Bank of New York accounts.   Last week, hemmed in by a looming budget deficit and the need to help Russian firms and citizens weather the financial crisis, the government offered to discuss a settlement. The bank accepted.   'Now we are discussing the details of the meeting or meetings that can take place this week,' Ivan Marisin, the bank's lead council, told the court.   A source close to the case said the first meeting would take place on Wednesday, while Marisin's co-council, Jonathan Schiller, said he hoped for a resolution by week's end.   Judge Lyudmila Pulova scheduled the next hearing for April 14. 'Probably this will be the last hearing of the case,' she said.   U.S. TAXPAYER LOSS   A settlement offer of $800 million was reported last week by the Russian daily Kommersant, which cited a source close to the government of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin..   A payout of this size would mean a loss of about $0.47 per share to the bank's shareholders, including U.S. taxpayers, who have given $3 billion in bailout money to the bank.   Schiller, lead outside council for the Bank of New York Mellon, said an offer of $800 million was 'nonsense'.   The bank already rejected an offer to settle for $600 million before the case was filed in May 2007.   A more reasonable place to start would be $1.4 million, Schiller said, in line with the amount earned on money transfers out of Russia made by the bank's rogue vice president, Lucy Edwards.   'If there was any number you could look at, it is the number that the bank earned on the misconduct of what Edwards did without its knowledge,' Schiller told Reuters.   But Steven Marks, the plaintiff's lawyer, said even the $800 million reported in the media would not suffice -- 'They would be lucky to get off that easy,' he said by telephone. 
