LONDON (AFP) - Britain's Serious Fraud Office said Thursday it had launched an investigation into operations at a British subsidiary of US insurance giant American International Group (AIG). 'The Serious Fraud Office has today launched a preliminary inquiry into the UK operations of AIG Financial Products Corp, which is a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc,' the SFO said in a statement. AIG said later it would fully cooperate with the SFO. The probe, which is at an early stage, began after authorities were alerted to irregularities at the division, the SFO said. 'The SFO is cooperating with US authorities who are already conducting separate, independent investigations involving conduct at AIG Financial Products Corp and with UK-based financial services regulator, the Financial Services Authority,' the SFO statement continued. 'SFO's inquiry does not concern the insurance operations of AIG in the UK or elsewhere.' It added: 'The SFO's swift action is in keeping with its new approach ... of intervening proactively at an early stage when it is made aware of irregularities which warrant further investigation.' US titan AIG was partly-nationalized late last year in a US government bailout that topped 152 billion dollars. 'It is right for us to look into the UK operations of AIG Financial Products Corp. to determine if there has been criminal conduct,' said SFO Director Richard Alderman in the statement. 'We will use our full range of powers to seek information and to speak to those with an inside knowledge of the company's operations.' AIG, the world's largest insurer before the global credit crisis, was on the brink of collapse when the US government offered a crucial lifeline and took a stake in the firm in mid-September. The group, which has operations in more than 130 countries, said in a separate statement that it was co-operating with the SFO inquiry. 'American International Group, Inc. said today that it will cooperate fully with the UK SFO, which today announced the launch of an inquiry into the UK business operations of certain subsidiaries of AIGFP,' it said. 'AIG understands that the SFO's inquiry is not related to AIG's foreign or domestic insurance businesses. 'As previously disclosed, AIG began the process of unwinding certain of AIGFP's and its subsidiaries' businesses and portfolios, including those in the UK, late last year. 'There are approximately 370 employees in AIGFP worldwide who are working on the winding down of the business.'
