A high-flying City trader has been arrested by police investigating a 40 million investment fraud.  Foreign exchange expert Terry Freeman, 60, has been released on bail after being quizzed by City of London police at his home in Buckhurst Hill, Essex.  The raid was spearheaded by City of London Police's Economic Crime Department.  Police are appealing to investors in Freeman's firm, GFX Capital Markets Ltd which had offices in Leadenhall and Moorgate, to come forward if they had concerns.  The police are probing suspected money laundering and offences under the Financial Services and Markets Act, a spokesman said.  It is understood that GSX ran into trouble last year and has now stopped trading.  An investigation was launched today into the UK financial products operations of US group and embattled Manchester United sponsor AIG.  The Serious Fraud Office said the preliminary inquiry will focus on suspected illegal transactions at AIG Financial Products Corporation, a subsidiary of AIG.  The United States parent group AIG is one of a number of firms under review by the FBI as part of a wider investigation of the failed sub-prime mortgage market.  It was bailed out to the tune of billions of dollars of Government money after suffering hefty losses in the credit crunch.  An SFO spokesman said the organisation will intervene 'proactively' when it is made aware of irregularities which warrant further investigation.  He said: 'The SFO is co-operating with US authorities who are already conducting separate, independent investigations involving conduct at AIG Financial Products Corporation and with UK-based financial services regulator the Financial Services Authority.  'The SFO's inquiry does not concern the insurance operations of AIG in the UK or elsewhere.'  SFO director Richard Alderman said: 'It is right for us to look into the UK operations of AIG Financial Products Corporation, to determine if there has been criminal conduct. 'We will use our full range of powers to seek information and to speak to those with an inside knowledge of the company's operations.'  AIG is one of the world's biggest insurance and financial services organisations with operations in more than 130 countries.  AIG signed a record 56 million shirt sponsorship contract with Manchester United Football Club several years ago but said it will not renew the deal in May.  No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts? Click on the icon below an article to save to your favourite stories file
