Anne Arvia, president of Columbus-based Nationwide Bank, has been appointed to the board of directors for GATX Corporation (NYSE:GMT), a Chicago-based company and one of the country's leading lessors in the rail, marine and industrial equipment industries. 'I'm always looking for opportunities to use my experience in new ways,' Arvia said. 'It will be exciting to serve on the board of a company that is involved in such a diverse range of initiatives around the world.' Since joining Nationwide in 2006, Arvia has helped Nationwide Bank grow from a start-up to a strong financial institution with more than $2.3 billion in assets. After her first year at Nationwide, Anne was named one of U.S. Banker's '25 Women to Watch.' In 2005, Arvia was chosen as one of the publication's '25 Most Powerful Women in Banking' while serving as the president and chief executive officer of ShoreBank. 'Anne's financial acumen and experience as CEO will be an asset to GATX,' said Brian A. Kenney, chairman and CEO of GATX Corporation. 'I am pleased she has joined our outstanding group of independent directors.' Arvia earned a bachelor's degree in accounting from Michigan State University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Before being elected Nationwide Bank president in 2006, she held a number of positions at ShoreBank, Chicago's premier community development and environmental bank. She was elected president in 2002 and chief executive officer in 2003. She lives in Dublin, Ohio with her husband and two children. Nationwide Bank is a federally chartered, FDIC-insured savings bank and a subsidiary of Nationwide Financial Services, Inc. Nationwide Financial, based in Columbus, Ohio, provides a variety of financial services that help consumers invest and protect their long-term assets, and offers retirement plans and services through both public- and private-sector employers. Nationwide Financial is part of the Nationwide group of companies, which offers diversified insurance and financial services. The group is led by Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, which is ranked No. 108 on the Fortune 500 list based on 2007 revenue. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com. GATX Corporation (NYSE:GMT) provides lease financing and related services to customers operating rail, marine and other targeted assets. GATX is a leader in leasing transportation assets and controls one of the largest railcar fleets in the world. Applying over a century of operating experience and strong market and asset expertise, GATX provides quality assets and services to customers worldwide. GATX has been headquartered in Chicago, Illinois since its founding in 1898 and has traded on the New York Stock Exchange since 1916. For more information, visit the Company's website at www.gatx.com.   Nationwide, Nationwide Bank, the Nationwide Framemark and On Your Side are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. Nationwide Carah Brody, 614-677-0275 brodyc@nationwide.com 
