Sun Life Financial Inc. reported a fourth-quarter profit of $129-million on Thursday, down from $555-million a year ago.  However, the results included an $825-million after-tax gain because the Toronto-based insurer sold its 37-per-cent stake in mutual fund company CI Financial Income Fund to Bank of Nova Scotia in December.  Excluding that unusual gain, Sun Life posted an operating loss of $696-million.  Like its peers, the insurer was contending with dismal financial markets, with stock markets having plunged more than 20 per cent from the prior quarter.  Sun Life's earnings were hit by $682-million in charges relating to the stock markets, and $365-million from troubled assets and writedowns. It also took a $164-million hit in anticipation of higher future credit-related losses.  The weaker-than-expected results and multiple writedowns drew criticism of Sun Life's risk management from analysts, with Citigroup Colin Devine referring to the quarterly performance as horrendous. Don Stewart, Sun Life's chief executive office, defended the company's performance, saying that the insurer remains strongly capitalized, and explaining while the dollar values [of the losses] are large, so too is the magnitude of the economic events we have experienced. Analysts also questioned Sun Life's commitment to its quarterly dividend of 36 cents a share. Mr. Stewart said the board of directors looked at the company's overall capital strength in deciding to pay the dividend at a time when the company is losing money, and that directors were comfortable paying out this cash.  Sun Life is seen as a potential acquirer of U.S. insurance companies or assets, including units of AIG, but Mr. Stewart downplayed the potential for deals in the near term, due to the continued volatility in markets.  Analysts had been expecting Canada's major life insurers to report ugly results Thursday, with Scotia Capital analyst Tom MacKinnon predicting another brutal quarter. The sharp decline in equity markets essentially makes this a throwaway quarter, he wrote in a note to clients prior to the release of Sun Life's financial results.  Mr. MacKinnon was among the analysts that expected the company to post a loss this quarter, although the consensus estimate called for a profit of about 21 cents per share.  Sun Life's fully diluted earnings per share came in at 23 cents, down 74 cents from a year ago. The fourth quarter concluded an extremely challenging year across the global financial services sector, said chief executive officer Donald Stewart. While Sun Life's overall financial returns are very disappointing, reflecting negative equity markets and a stressed credit environment, our balance sheet remains strong and well diversified. He added that the company's financial position enables it to maintain its current level of dividends. The last time that Sun Life raised its dividend, which stands at 36 cents per share, was the end of 2007.  The company said that the key measure of its financial cushion, called the minimum continuing capital surplus requirements, was 232 per cent at the end of the quarter. That compares with 202 per cent at Sept. 30. The company aims to keep its ratio above 150 per cent, but analysts and investors have been pushing insurers to maintain levels in excess of 200 per cent.  Sun Life is well capitalized and the threat of it having to issue common equity is low, CIBC World Markets analyst Darko Mihelic wrote in a note to clients Thursday morning.  However, he also noted that Sun Life has lowered the guidance for its target return on equity to 13 per cent from 15 per cent.  RBC Capital Markets analyst Andre-Philippe Hardy said that the insurer's operating results were below his expectations, and he expects the pressure on profits to continue. More important to the share price, however, is capital strength and sensitivity to equity markets, and [Sun Life] looks good on those metrics, he wrote in a note to clients.
