 In August, the Government converted 3bn of its loan to Northern Rock into equity to bolster its core tier 1 capital ratio, which had slipped to the dangerously low level of 2.9pc.   The Government may have to inject '2bn pounds to 3bn more,' into Northern Rock, a source close to the Government has told The Daily Telegraph.   A new capital injection into B&amp;amp;B would be more modest because the business is smaller, but the buy-to-let specialist could still require a significant sum to offset rising bad debts.   The spotlight will be on B&amp;amp;B and Northern Rock over the next few weeks as Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds TSB and HBOS push forward with massive fundraisings , imposed on them by the Government in a bid to bolster the financial strength of the banking sector.   There is a view that the Government will have to apply the same standards particularly to Northern Rock, as it is still a deposit taking institution as well as a mortgage lender, and therefore needs to maintain customers' confidence.   The Treasury and Bank of England devised an 'eight six four' rule which was the basis for forcing RBS, HBOS and Lloyds to raise 37bn between them, sources said. Barclays was also told it had to raise capital and on Friday unveiled a 7bn fundraising from strategic investors.   The major banks were told to raise capital so that they have 8pc core tier 1 ratios after the fund raising and in a very stressed situation still have 4pc. That would leave them with about 6pc after the spike in bad debts which is expected as the economy weakens. 'If the Government has applied that stress test to the big banks why has it not to Northern Rock and to B&amp;amp;B? It is going to need to put more money into those two and from a regulatory point of view, it needs to do it by the end of the year,' a banker said. B&amp;amp;B raised 400m in the summer in new capital after a string of failed attempts. The capital raising did not restore confidence in the business and the Government nationalised the bank's mortgage book in September and sold its deposits to Spain's Santander.   Analysts believe B&amp;amp;B's bad debts will spike up at a faster rate than other banks because the vast majority of its business is areas where defaults tend to be highest, including by-to-let and 'self certification loans', where the customer does not have to provide proof of income.   Bad debts are also accelerating at Northern Rock because the bank is trying to shrink its balance sheet so that it can repay the billions loaned to it by the Government.   To reduce its size, as customers' mortgages come up for renewal, Northern Rock is encouraging customers to go elsewhere by only offering unfavourable deals.   This has meant that good customers are leaving, but those with poor credit histories who find it difficult to get a good deal elsewhere are remaining, leaving Northern Rock with a concentration of customers who are more likely to default on loans.   The impact of this 'adverse selection' may mean Northern Rock needs more capital, said Alex Potter, an analyst at Collins Stewart.   A key issue will be how Northern Rock and B&amp;amp;B handle customers who are defaulting on loans. If there is an active repossession policy, banks will have to dramatically increase the capital they hold on their balance sheets as repossessed properties are often sold at a loss.   This is on top of a need under Basle II accounting rules to top up capital to support even loans which are being repaid but which, because of the worsening environment, are seen as more risky. 
