By Paul Day and Judith MacInnes  Banco Santander announced a surprise 7.2 billion euro (5.8 billion pounds) rights issue to shore up its capital on Monday and said it had postponed its planned asset sales due to poor market conditions.  Previously the bank had said it planned to sell its 31 percent stake in oil refiner Cepsa as well as its Banco de Venezuela subsidiary.  The rights issue has been fully underwritten by a syndicate of banks led by Merrill Lynch and also including Bank of America and Credit Suisse, the Spanish bank said.  Santander, which had concerned some investors with a string of buys that some feared would dilute its core capital, said in a statement it was not planning more acquisitions and would postpone planned asset sales until market conditions improve. 'Banco Santander has always had a very clear approach to capital strength. That is why, although we are starting from a very strong position -- our core (tier 1) capital (to risk-weighted assets) ratio at September 30 was 6.31 percent -- the group has raised its goal to 7 percent in response to our higher expectations in the current economic environment,' Chairman Emilio Botin said in the statement.  The bank said it would offer one new share for every four in circulation, or 1.6 billion new shares, at 4.5 euros per share to raise 7.2 billion euros.  Investors had not expected a rights issue from Santander, which has emerged not only relatively unscathed but bigger from the credit crunch, sweeping up the savings and the branch network of the troubled Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and bidding for the remaining 75 percent of U.S. bank Sovereign which it does not already own. 'The move is surprising as we were under the impression that they did not need capital,' said one shareholder who asked not to be named. 'But we're not too concerned about it. They should have excess capital now, which puts them in the position to make further buys.' Santander's share price was down 3.84 percent at 8.02 euros at 1025 GMT, when the Madrid market's IBEX-35 index was up 1.59 percent. 'The rights issue is totally underwritten, so it will be successful,' Venture Finanzas analyst said.  Other European banks had struggled with rights issues earlier in the financial crisis, with British banks RBS , HBOS , Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and France's Natixis all suffering from investor reluctance to pour in more money.  More recently, bank Barclays decided last month to turn to two major Middle East investors to raise the bulk of its 7 billion pound new capital requirement, saying it judged a rights issue too risky. Santander's domestic rival BBVA said it has no plans to raise capital.  Santander said it was being conservative and the move was not related to hidden losses. 'We have taken the strategic decision to operate with higher capital ratios within an environment of greater uncertainty and a market demand for higher capital ratios in the financial industry,' it said in a presentation. 'We do not have acquisition plans,' it said, adding that the bank would maintain its dividend per share in 2009 compared with 2008, which in turn would rise from the payout for 2007. It would also maintain the payout ratio at 45-55 percent of profits.  At the end of October Santander had attempted to calm investor concerns that the bank's string of acquisitions, which has also included Alliance &amp;amp; Leicester this year, had diluted its core capital. 'Although the timing of the cash call may surprise investors after recent moves by UK and Portuguese banks to raise minimum capital levels and Santander's failure to sell assets, this decision was perhaps on the cards,' a Madrid-based equities analyst said.  Chief Executive Alfredo Saenz had said in October the bank would continue the planned asset sales to deleverage its balance sheet and said the recent purchases would not have a significant impact on core capital ratios.  Trading in the rights to Santander shares will run for 15 days after the prospectus for the issue is approved by the Spanish stockmarket regulator.  (Reporting by Jonathan Gleave and Robert Hetz; Writing by Jason Webb; Editing by Greg Mahlich)
