ON TUESDAY,  will publish the prospectus for its share placing as part of its recapitalisation process, writes Rosemary Gallagher.  RBS will expand on the details of its offer of ordinary shares to raise 15bn capital, which will be underwritten by the Government at a fixed price of 65.5p per share. As part of its bailout the Government has also subscribed for 5bn of preference shares in RBS.Analysts say take-up of ordinary shares will depend on RBS's value, which has fluctuated since it announced this latest round of capital raising on October 13. On Friday its share price closed at 67.5p, up 0.7p on the day.  The prospectus will also reveal the scale of RBS's write-downs, which totalled 5.9bn in the first half of the year.  Mike Trippet, analyst with Oriel Securities, said: 'Everyone is waiting for clarity on the write-downs and to find out the unknown. My hunch is there will be more than 5bn gross write-downs in the second six months of this year.'With write-downs expected to break through the 10bn barrier, analysts are likely to say that RBS's acquisition of ABN Amro was a more misguided decision than many originally thought because of the amount of risky offshore credit derivatives it has placed on its balance sheet.  Some commentators are also predicting the moratorium on dividend payments that the UK Government introduced as part of its 37bn rescue of RBS, HBOS and Lloyds TSB may be lifted, or at least revised, this week.  The Government has faced a backlash for its stipulation in the bailout that ordinary share dividends will not be made available until its own preference shares have been paid off.  There have been suggestions that this measure cannot be scrapped because of European Commission rules, but analysts are speculating that an announcement by the Government on the situation could be made to coincide with RBS and Lloyds TSB issuing their offer documents.  Mamoun Tazi, analyst with Man Securities, said: 'If there are any surprises this week, it could be that the moratorium on dividend payments is abolished.'The Government has been asked to reconsider its stance and this could be reflected in the prospectus being published this week.'Meanwhile, Barclays has announced a different approach to capital raising than that taken by rivals.  On Friday, the bank announced that Middle East investors will own up to one third of Barclays after Abu Dhabi and Qatar provided most of 7.3bn raised repair to damage from the global financial crisis.  Marcus Agius, chairman of Barclays, said the move means it will not have to take tax-payer cash through a Government bailout.He said: 'We can be in charge of our own destiny.'Up to 3.5bn is being raised from Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, one of the brothers of Abu Dhabi's ruler, giving him a 16% stake in Britain's third largest bank.A further 2bn comes from Qatar's sovereign wealth fund and 300m from a member of Qatar's royal family. That leaves Qatar investors holding 15%.  Despite their 30% shareholding, Barclays said that none of the Middle Eastern investors has, as yet, asked for a seat on the bank's board.
