 Barclays The ABI, which represents about one-fifth of UK shareholders, has given the fundraising an 'amber' rating short of the 'red' indicating investors to vote against the deal but still reflecting significant reservations.   The ABI is the second investor body in two days to advise against backing the board. Corporate governance advisory body RREV has recommended shareholders 'abstain' from voting. The ABI said: 'The cost of the proposed funding package ... is very substantial and is in the opinion of some shareholders unfavourable compared to the terms offered to other UK banks from the Treasury.' Barclays has drawn the ire of shareholders for agreeing to highly generous terms for the Middle Eastern investors, who will end up with 31pc of the bank for their 5.8bn investment. Analysts reckon the extra cost of the Middle Eastern capital raising, when compared with the Government's offer, amounts to 3bn. Under pressure from existing shareholders, led by Legal &amp;amp; General and Aviva, Barclays has attempted to renegotiate the deal but appears to have failed.   Of particular concern has been the board's willingness to waive pre-emption rights, which traditionally give shareholders first refusal on any fundraising. The ABI noted concern about the inability of ordinary shareholders to participate in the plan and that investors in Qatar and Abu Dhabi will hold over 30pc of Barclays shares. 'Some investors are concerned that they will have this level of control without paying a premium,' the report said. An 'amber' rating indicates the ABI has some concerns over corporate governance and means shareholders should take their own decision on a vote. The report said the rating was pending clarification of issues at a meeting with the bank, expected to take place today.   The Middle Eastern deal is legally binding subject to the shareholder vote on November 24. Barclays will have to pay 300m of fees to the new investors and their advisers whether or not the deal goes ahead. Shareholders, despite being furious with the terms, are reluctant to vote against the deal because 'there is not a plan B', one said. The Government is understood to be unwilling to provide the funds on the same, cheaper terms as offered last month. Barclays' board, including chief executive John Varley, would also be in an untenable position if the fundraising plans were rejected by shareholders.   Barclays must raise the funds by the end of the year to meet new capital requirements demanded by the Financial Services Authority.   Shares in Barclays closed up 1.4p at 159.1p. 
