  REPEAT       What did Stacy London tell Jackie ahe and Clinton Kelly did after they surprised her in the midle of her shopping spree?   *Didn't expect her to become so upset      What did Carmindy tell Jackie she should do with the circles appearing under her eyes as they discussed make-up tips?   *Brighten them as oppose to covering them      What did Jackie say people would no longer do as she discussed her new sophisticated style?   *Ask her for a hall pass      What did Jackie tell Nick Arrojo she attempted to do with her hair as they were having an evaluation before her makeover?   *Color it blonde for the summer      What did Stacy London do to Jackie's "nice blazer" while she and Clinton Kelly went through her wardrobe?   *Tore it in half before throwing it out      What did Jackie say she did during an interview after Clinton Kelly said he and Stacy London wished to push her out of her comfort zone?   *Felt really out of her element      What did Stacy London tell Clinton Kelly that Jackie was doing after trying on only two pairs of pants during her shopping trip?   *Expressing her frustration early      What did Clinton Kelly say Jackie did after she stated in an interview that her style was "non-existent"?   *Confused casual with sloppy      What did Clinton kelly tell Jackie to do after he and Stacy London surprised her while she was in class?   *Agree to shop by their rules      What did Jackie tell Stacy London and Clinton Kelly she did while trying clothes on for them after her makeover?   *Felt pretty for the first time in her life      What did Jackie say a brown and white patterned tunic she wore did as she discussed it with Stacy London and Clinton Kelly?   *Sat in the middle of her old style and new fashion      What did Clinton Kelly say Jackie did after she stated in an interview that her style was "non-existent"?   *Confused casual with sloppy   *Sony      What did Clinton kelly tell Jackie to do after he and Stacy London surprised her while she was in class?   *Agree to shop by their rules   *Bank of America      What did Stacy London tell Jackie ahe and Clinton Kelly did after they surprised her in the midle of her shopping spree?   *Didn't expect her to become so upset   *Scoop NYC      What happened behind Jackie as Stacy London and Clinton Kelly surprised her and asked if she would agree to their terms?   * Class of students looked on and applauded      What did Stacy London tell Clinton Kelly that Jackie was doing after trying on only two pairs of pants during her shopping trip?   Expressing her frustration early   Bank of America      What did Jackie say she did during an interview after Clinton Kelly said he and Stacy London wished to push her out of her comfort zone?   *Felt really out of her element 
