  A former head of the Hanford Conference and Visitor Agency, who admitted to embezzling public dollars during his employment, will face some jail time after all. Ralph Tucci, 67, was sentenced to six months in jail and five years probation Tuesday, nearly three months after he pleaded guilty to a felony embezzlement, according to Kings County prosecutors.  Tucci also was ordered to pay restitution of about $4,800 to the city-funded tourism promotion agency and complete 100 hours of community service.  Tuesday's sentencing marked the end of a dark chapter in the history of the visitor agency, which began in late 2006 with a major financial shortfall and ended with the criminal prosecution of Tucci for misappropriation of public funds.  Tucci was originally charged with one count of misappropriation of public funds, one count of grand theft and one count of fraud concerning budget irregularities that put the agency in a $14,000 deficit in late 2006. Tucci resigned in February 2007 amid the controversy.  The inspection of financial records by The Sentinel at that time found Tucci had charged more than $15,500 on a Bank of America credit card, the existence of which was previously unknown to the agency board of directors. The records also showed repeated purchase of gas outside of Kings County with the organization's credit card, amounting to several thousand dollars. Tucci had faced up to three years in prison before his plea deal.  Deputy District Attorney Keith Fagundes said Tucci got what he deserved, as Tucci still has yet to make full restitution to the agency.'If he doesn't pay back the money and doesn't comply with all the terms of probation, he's still looking at a prison term,' Fagundes said. 'All in all, six months in jail is appropriate for the first felony conviction.'Neil Williams, who sits on the visitor agency's governing board, said he expects restitution, noting that it is public money.'With a reasonable approach, we'd like to see some restitution back to the agency, so we can put it back where it rightfully belongs,' Williams said.Since the scandal, the city has required an independent audit on all the agencies that receive city tax dollars, including the visitor agency, as a safeguard to ensure their fiscal responsibilities.  Meanwhile, the agency is out of debt today. And its budgets have been in the black since the major financial reorganization that took place after Tucci's departure.  With new director Dave Jones at the helm, the agency has seen some success, such as bringing Huell Howser, a popular PBS show host, to Hanford and getting the city featured in one of his shows.'From our standpoint, we've moved forward, particularly over the last year,' Williams said. 'A lot of good things are happening with the progressive dinners, the restoration of the carousel and other programs we're looking to put in place in the future to attract more tourists.'The reporter can be reached at 583-2429.  (Jan. 29, 2009)
