AIG scandal prompts industry wide effort to prove worth of incentives and meetings  Leaders for many of the major meetings industry associations congregated in New Orleans last month at the annual meeting of the Professional Convention Management Association (PCMA) for an unprecedented strategy meeting to develop an initiative aimed at making the government and the public more aware of the value of the meetings and incentive industries. This initiative, will include a sustained lobbying effort on Capitol Hill by the U.S. Travel Association (formerly the Travel Industry Association) and a comprehensive study of the impact of the meetings and incentive industries.  In attendance at the meeting were Deborah Sexton, president and CEO of PCMA, Bruce MacMillan, CA president and CEO of Meeting Professionals International (MPI), John H. Graham IV, CAE, president and CEO American Society of Association Executives (ASAE), Gregg H. Talley, CAE, president CEO of Talley Management Group, which manages the Convention Industry Council (CIC), Roger Dow, president and CEO of the aforementioned U.S. Travel and Christine Duffy, president and CEO of Maritz Travel. Organizations not represented that are part of the initiative are the National Business Travel Association (NBTA), SITE (formerly the Society of Incentive &amp; Travel Executives), the International Association of Exhibitions and Events (IAEE), the Association of Corporate Travel Executives (ACTE), and the Destination Marketing Association International (DMAI).  'This isn't something that one organization can undertake,' says Sexton. 'A united effort by the entire industry is what's called for. This is something that needed to happen yesterday.'  The AIG scandal concerning the insurance company hosting a dealer incentive trip right after accepting government bailout money that broke back in November was the impetus behind the new initiative. The event had serious ramifications for many corporate events as companies scrambled to postpone or cancel meetings and incentives to avoid the possible public perception of impropriety.  'The AIG scandal turned into a perception vs. reality situationespecially in the industries involved in the government bailout,' says Duffy. 'We have clients who are cancelling meetings crucial to the success of their organizations because they are receiving bailout money.'  The group ended their meeting with a plan to reconvene in Washington in late January to finalize the action plan and send out requests for proposals to independent research firms for the research component, which Duffy estimated could take up to a year to 18 months to complete.  'Business is cyclical, and this research will be valuable in good times as well as bad,' says Dow, who, along with Duffy will head the lobbying effort. 'It will enable us to lobby Congress with hard facts on the economic impact of meetings and incentives.'  Incentive Magazine  SUBSCRIBE  ADVERTISE  Contact Incentive Magazine about this article at  
