Charlotte Business Journal  Related News  A former Bank of America Corp. employee has been arrested and charged in connection with a multimillion-dollar scheme to misappropriate funds from customer accounts, according to the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Florida.  Ricardo Figuerado surrendered to authorities Thursday morning.  Figuerado misappropriated more than $11 million in customer funds for personal investments in Guatemala, Spain and elsewhere, and more than $1 million in customer funds to support his lavish lifestyle, according to a news release.  Prosecutors contend the fraud was conducted between the mid-1990s and May 2008.  During the course of the scheme, the defendants responsibilities at the various banks included providing services to customers living abroad but had accounts in South Florida.  Prosecutors say Figuerado convinced those customers to conduct their banking business through him, and discouraged them from obtaining records that would allow them to monitor their account activity.  In some cases, he told customers that it was not safe for them to have account statements mailed to their home countries, and that online banking was not secure, officials say.  If convicted, Figuerado faces up to 30 years in prison.  BofA (NYSE:BAC) is based in Charlotte.  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Charlotte  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Business Resources  Boutique firm broadens reach.  Sponsored by  Realtor finds calling; searches out buyers for church properties up for sale.  Restaurant looks to grow by increasing value for its customers.  S.F. startup finds silver lining in retails clouds.  The new political dynamic between business and labor interests couldnt wait for President Obamas inauguration to show itself.  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Tax Manager - Kaba Ilco Corp  BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT - Marketing Manager - Moore Stephens Frost, PLLC  Tax Manager - Kaba Ilco Corp  BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT - Marketing Manager - Moore Stephens Frost, PLLC  BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT - Marketing Manager - Moore Stephens Frost, PLLC  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Charlotte Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 9,000 SF  Use Type: Sale  Charlotte Business Directory  North Carolina Articles Charlotte Articles Advertising Charlotte Business Services Charlotte Career Charlotte Cars Charlotte Education Charlotte Financial Services Charlotte Health Charlotte Home Services Charlotte Insurance Charlotte Internet Charlotte Legal Charlotte Real Estate Charlotte Software Charlotte Telecommunications Charlotte Travel Charlotte  
