The number of victims of a debit card scam in Stratford is now close to 80 and may only be the tip of the iceberg, police say.  And the amount of money bilked from banks, now more than $36,000, could easily exceed $100,000, possibly much more with some empty envelope deposits traced to the Greater Toronto Area, Montreal and Kirkland, Que.  'Although close to 80 victims have come forward, it is believed that this number is only a fraction of the total number of victims that have had their accounts compromised,' said Stratford Det.-Insp. Sam Theocharis.  'Many people have decided not to report this illegal activity to police, since the banks are making good and replacing the money. But I've heard one bank alone may have had 130 victims. It's just a constant stream.'  Theocharis said there's little doubt the scam involved more than one person and more than a single ATM, bank or business.  Some of the victims are from the surrounding area and frequent Stratford on a regular basis, Theocharis said.  He said he's optimistic police will find the culprits, pointing to successes in the past such as two years ago when an off-duty Stratford police officer noticed something fishy about a bank machine and contacted bank officials, who found a skimming device had been inserted.  In that case, two suspects from the Toronto area were arrested in a car in a nearby parking lot. Skimming equipment and laptop computers were seized.  Police urge Stratford residents to check their accounts and report suspicious activity.  The Canadian Bankers Association (CBA) says no one will be out of pocket, because the banks will refund their accounts.  It's still not known how the culprits were able to withdraw the money over the weekend. Police said 'multiple' institutions were hit.  The illegal withdrawals range from $200 to $2,000. In some instances, the culprits tried to withdraw money, but failed because of bank anti-fraud technology.  The CBA says debit card fraud is a problem, but not as widespread as some may think. Less than one per cent of the 21 million debit cards in circulation in 2007 were hit by fraud, with the total amount lost estimated at $107 million.  For information about how to protect yourself from debit-card fraud, the CBA urges consumers to visit its website at www.cba.ca/fraud.  HOW SCAMMING WORKS  Electronic readers are installed in ATMs and card swiping machines to copy the data on cards,  Hidden cameras, or an accomplice standing nearby, records the personal identification number.  The information is loaded onto blank debit cards, which are then used to make cash withdrawals or fake deposits followed by withdrawals.  Sometimes store clerks are the accomplices, bribed to double swipe cards on regular swipe machines and data recorders, or to memorize PINs.  
