Greenpeace is in trouble with some previously friendly Labour MPs after an e-mail campaign before todays Commons vote about the third runway at Heathrow collapsed some of their e-mail boxes. The group had asked the public to contact 57 Labour MPs who had indicated they would vote against the project, amid fears that some might waver and follow the government line.   Several have complained to the parliamentary authorities. Nick Palmer, MP for Broxtowe, Nottinghamshire, said that he had had 5,000 e-mails, coming in every ten seconds at their peak. It means my own constituents that Im here to represent cant contact me about Heathrow or any other subject, he told a political blogsite. Its making me less likely to support them. A Greenpeace spokesman responded: This isnt an e-mail bombing, whatever that is. This is democracy. About 6,000 people had responded. We didnt expect to crash inboxes and were sorry if weve caused researchers a headache, but it shows the strength of feeling out there that this many people are asking our MPs to reject this reckless plan to expand Heathrow. Staveley in no hurry to register with FSA  Someone out there doesnt like Amanda Staveley, adviser to various Gulf investors, most recently on buying a chunk of Barclays. A reader points out that her PCP Capital Partners boutique is not registered with the Financial Services Authority and asks if this might in some way be connected with her 2005 individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). Indeed it is, in that she could not have got FSA registration and in any event doesnt need it, says a spokesman. The IVA came to an end late last year, with all the money repaid with interest. Will she be registering with the regulator, then? I doubt its a priority. The annual Retail Trust London Ball raised a record amount for charity the other night, with Sir Philip Green at the forefront of bidding and encouraging others to bid. This is good news, as I had heard rumours, strongly denied by the organisers, that the auction might not take place, so bad are times in the retail sector. The event raised 1.1 million for cash-strapped retail workers but the auction was a silent one rather than the usual table-thumping and shouting because it fitted better with the mood, really, as one involved tells me. Sir Stuart Rose, Harold Tillman and Justin King were also in evidence. Not there was Jon Asgeir Johannesson, of Baugur, Iceland who would probably be lynched in downtown Rejkyavik if he had been too flash with his cash.   I cannot vouch for the mathematics, but the following note is circulating widely from James Bianco, of Bianco Research, who points out a startling fact. If Citi, GM, Bank of America, Alcoa, JPMorgan, American Express and GE all opened at zero tomorrow, the Dow would lose only 528 points. Thats because many of these stocks are below $10 per share and dont have much of an impact on the index any more. Much the same is true of our banks, I imagine.   A lesson from Sir Fred on avoiding the hoi polloi  And still the stories flood in about Sir Fred Goodwins time running Royal Bank of Scotland. Some of you clearly have long memories. A reader recalls how Sir Fred, on visiting the banks Tokyo operation, made the corporate jet fly to a smaller international airport first. Immigration would come on board and check both the passengers and the aircraft into Japan. The aircraft would then fly on to Narita as a local flight, so circumventing the main airports policy requiring all international arrivals to disembark and check-in inside the terminal, so that he wouldnt have to mix with hoi polloi. Sounds quite clever, actually.   Donald Trump has been musing on his blog about the sad death of Jett, John Travoltas teenage son. Naturally, the great man's thoughts turn immediately to the time he tried to sleep with Travoltas wife. I met Kelly Preston at a club and worked like hell to try and pick her up. She was beautiful, personable, and definitely had allure. At the time I had no idea she was married to John Travolta. In any event, my track record on this subject has always been outstanding, such modesty! but Kelly wouldnt give me the time of day. She was very nice, very elegant, but I didnt have a chance with her, and that was that. Just how self-obsessed do you have to be if the first thought you have, on learning of a family tragedy like that, is the time you tried to pick up the now-grieving mother? Or to put it another way, so, Kelly, what was it about the rampantly egoistic, weirdly coiffed, if undeniably rich, Donald Trump that turned you off? 
