The Aurora Sentinel  AURORA   Jay Gershen has been involved in the redevelopment of the old Fitzsimons Army Garrison in north Aurora since well before shovels broke soil on the more than $5 billion project.  Its that experience, and the subsequent connection he has to Aurora, that the vice chancellor for external affairs of the University of Colorado Denver says will help him on his newest  endeavor.  Early this month, Gershen, who holds a doctorate in dental science, was named chairman of the board of the Aurora Economic Development Council succeeding Marc Parker of U.S. Bank, who served as chairman for 2008.  Gershen said he has been involved with AEDC for the past nine years.  He said he got involved with the council as part of the University of Colorado Denvers efforts to expand to the old Fitzsimons campus.  The facility is now a model base closure and an example for similar bioscience sites around the country, Gershen said.  AEDC President Wendy Mitchell pointed to Gershens understanding of the bioscience industry as one of the reasons he will make a good leader for the organization.  Jay Gershens expertise in public advocacy and knowledge of the bioscience industry make him an excellent selection, Mitchell said in a statement announcing Gershens appointment. Under Jays leadership, the organization will benefit from his extensive relationships with the business community, public officials and academia to help us accomplish our strategic initiatives for 2009.  Gershen said one of his biggest goals as chairman of AEDC will be finding a solution to the traffic woes near Interstate 225 and East Colfax Avenue.  The off-ramp from I-225 to Colfax is regularly packed as motorists try to make their way to the Anschutz Medical Campus. Local leaders have hoped for years that the state would expand the capacity at the intersection to make it easier for people to use the campus, but the problem remains.  The good news is that we have this campus that has grown from 400 people to now 22,000 visitors, students, faculty, staff and patients a day, Gershen said. The bad news is that the off ramp only holds 4,000 at Colfax and I-225  we only have one fifth of the capacity.  The congested ramps make it difficult for not only patients, students and faculty to make their way to the campus, Gershen said, it also makes it hard for emergency responders who need to get to the area from I-225.  Its about the marketability of the two hospitals and the university. Patients want to be able to get to their appointments on time, he said. Its also about the access for the physicians and health care providers and emergency vehicles.  While the congestion  particularly at rush hour  is a challenge for people on the Anschutz campus and at the businesses that have popped up along Colfax since Anschutz opened, Gershen said the issue goes well beyond just the medical campus.  All the businesses in Aurora and people who frequent those businesses and come through that area are effected, he said.  Gershen said he hopes the economic stimulus package being discussed in Washington includes funding that can be used to revamp the interchange at I-225 and Colfax. To redesign and build a new interchange would cost about $40 million, he said.  If thats the case, we could be shovel-ready and break ground by the end of the year, so were very excited about that possibility, he said.  AEDCs goal is to make Aurora premiere business address of the West, Gershen said. And when the economy staggers as it has in recent months, becoming that becomes even more important, he said.  In tough economic times, we need to be more entrepreneurial, we need to reach down and figure out ways to make deals happen, to attract companies to the state, he said. We think we have a lot to offer.  
