This is a  of an article from www.thedailytimes.com To  open the file menu and choose Print.  First Tennessee names Bryan vice president  First Tennessee has named Matthew Bryan vice president. Bryan, a relationship manager in the business banking division, works with small-business clients to help them meet their financial and business goals. 'We are pleased to have recognized Matthew's hard work and dedication to providing great customer service to his clients,' said Greg Wilson, regional president-Blount County. 'Matthew is very deserving of this promotion.' Bryan joined First Tennessee in 2005 and has been recognized the past two years by the company for his performance. Before joining First Tennessee, Bryan worked as a personal banker for Bank of America. He graduated from East Tennessee State University with a business finance degree with concentration in Banking.   He is married and active with the United Way of Blount County and Relay for Life in Blount County.Kestner joins staff of LBMC Technologies LBMC Technologies LLC, a member of the LBMC (Lattimore Black Morgan &amp;amp; Cain PC) family of companies, has added Melissa Kestner to its Knoxville office.   Kestner, previously a Six Sigma Black Belt for Edwards &amp;amp; Associates, will join the Knoxville team as a network engineer. She will be working with clients to provide solutions to building proper infrastructure as well as special projects as needed.   Melissa earned a bachelor's degree from Tusculum College and a master's from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.First Tennessee hires Lehman as VP in trust  First Tennessee recently hired Ralph Lehman as vice president and portfolio manager in the trust department.  Before joining First Tennessee, Lehman served for the past seven years as investment manager in the trust division of Home Federal Bank, where he was assistant vice president.  Lehman is a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and past president of the Knoxville CFA Society. He is a member of the Knoxville and Tennessee Bar associations and the Knoxville Estate Planning Council.   He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia and his master's degree in business administration as well as a law degree from the University of Tennessee.   Lehman resides with his wife, Charlotte, in West Knoxville.
