Using a backup service provider allows you to use their offsite managed backup service. Essentially, it will let you make a backup from a local computer to a network. Any business that needs to backup and restore data fast can benefit from a managed backup service.  You might be wondering why you shouldnt use tapes, since theyve been used for data backup for a long time.  Studies have recently shown that recovery methods based on tape can be prone to failure or complications and theyre not that cost effective either. On the other hand, managed storage services can be cost worthy, flexible, fast, reliable and secure.  There is another possible disadvantage of tape backup solutions, and thats the human error probability, which can happen during tape transportation or rotation.  Below you can read the story of a Connecticut bank that happened in January.  A bank from Bridgeport, Connecticut called the Peoples Bank, lost a tape during transportation, which contained personal data of around 90,000 customers. It contained their names, social security numbers, addresses and account numbers. It was sent originally to Pennsylvania. If something like this happens to your business, it can be disastrous, and not only for you, but for your customers as well.  Another case was that of Bank of America, which lost data of 1.2 million clients in 2005, according to The Privacy Rights Clearinghouse.  These data protection solutions that service providers offer are multi-faceted. You can use their services to reduce your risks of misplacement, theft, human error, malicious attacks or hardware failure.  The provider of remote data backup recovery services automatically encrypts, compresses and transmits the data to a data center that is highly secure.  The remote data backup service vs the ownership cost of tapes is also a factor that will make the difference for businesses.  In a large enterprise, the costs of tape backup is influenced by software, hardware, staffing, support and media. Another cost is having a second location to store data tapes, and it will also need software, hardware, staffing, support and communications. All in all, the total cost of ownership for a tape backup solution can be huge.  You no longer need media or shelved media when you use a remote backup service provider. You dont need to hire as much personnel either, to take care of the tapes and to maintain the systems.  Switching to a service such as this can reduce your expenses by up to 70%, and you would also eliminate the chances of a human error.  About the Author:  Discover the best managed online backup services at my site. Learn where to get cheap offsite data backup services for your business needs.  Article Source: http://www.articlesbase.com/data-recovery-articles/managed-storage-services-online-online-data-backup-service-versus-tape-backup-745987.html  
