As the press baron Lord Northcliffe put it, news is something that someone, somewhere, doesn't want in the newspaper everything else is advertising. So as Merrill Lynch is doing its level best to sit on it, let's take a look at the latest economics briefing from the US bank, which has us likely to be in a depression.   As David A. Rosenberg, the North American economist, writes, there is no official definition of a depression but there were no fewer than four   in the 19th century and one in the 20th century. We are very likely enduring another today, he says. Though this current one is muted by the fact that most countries have an elaborate social safety net. He says that depressions are basically long recessions, lasting anywhere between three and seven years. Merrill has no idea when the credit cycle will hit bottom, and just forget the American consumer and housing markets. How did you get that? snaps a Merrill spokesman, who insists that Rosenberg is only defining a depression, not predicting one. We don't want the press having that. It's for our clients only. Robert Tchenguiz's chauffeur has won the lottery, I learn. Tchenguiz has not had a clear run through the credit crunch but his employee's investment was clearly a profitable one. I am told the Iranian-born entrepreneur is not seeking a new chauffeur - his driver of 17 years managed five numbers on the draw, a pleasing enough win but not necessarily a life-changing one. I have been mulling over the Standard Life Active Money Sipp, or self-invested personal pension, which is being heavily advertised on the train and Tube. This product, it seems, allows you to choose how much to invest in cash, bonds, shares, gilts, mutual funds or even commercial property. And you can change your mind as often as you like. I hate to sound old-fashioned, but these were the sort of decisions you used to pay pension providers to make for you, using their expertise. Some startling failure of confidence at Standard Life? Reports suggest that Tony Page, the former Woolworths commercial director, is plugging away with plans to buy some of the northern stores from Deloitte, the administrators. He apparently has to raise 30 million to pay for stock, suppliers understandably being loath to extend credit. But Page is hopeful. He is also looking to hire PR Richard Hillgrove. The latter, whom we have met here before, is an unusual character, who has acted for showbiz entrepreneurs James Caan, Simon Woodroffe and Duncan Bannatyne. He also worked on the revival of Little Chef, recently the subject of a reality TV series. But will we see Heston Blumenthal brought in to ramp up the pick'n'mix? Time will tell. Kelvin MacKenzie went ahead with his stand-up gig at the Comedy Caf the other night, to be televised in due course. I suggested he shouldn't give up the day job. An e-mail arrives. I was at the Comedy Caf last night, a reader writes. I agree with your assessment. Russia red in tooth and claw   In the blue corner: Stephen Jennings  Stephen Jennings, chairman of Renaissance Capital, the Russian investment bank, was on CNBCs The Leaders programme last night. The talk came around to doing business in Russias world of contract killings and old Soviet bosses grabbing State assets. We were in the neutral corner, Jennings said diplomatically. We were creating an infrastructure for the local players and for international investors. A lot of people stood to gain by the processes. Jennings was a founder of Renaissance in 1995 and, before that, as co-head of its Moscow operation, brought Credit Suisse First Boston into Russia. It was a very historic, very dangerous time, but also a time with a lot of potential and opportunity, he said of those early days. 
