 cost $10m  15:36pm   Dollar closes at 8-week low  15:35pm   New accommodation village for Karratha  15:30pm   Sydney agency lands BankWest contract  14:51pm   Late rally boosts market into the black  14:46pm   FMG delivers $1bn half-year profit  14:09pm   Rio sells potash, Brazil iron ore assets  14:03pm   BHP workers may be redeployed to Pilbara  13:40pm   Red tape burden to be reduced: Buswell  13:11pm   Carnegie, Synergy in wave energy deal  About 50 wagons have been derailed from a Rio Tinto iron ore train in the Pilbara, while a 40-car freight train derailed in another accident near Kalgoorlie, injuring three people.  A Rio Tinto spokesman said in the Pilbara incident, about a quarter of a fully laden 230-car iron ore train had derailed on the 300km Tom Price-Dampier line late on Thursday.  No-one was injured in the derailment, which happened about 80km north of Tom Price on a duplicated line, the spokesman said.  He said it would take 'a few days' to clear the line but could not verify reports by workers that the repair bill may reach $10 million.  The area had received some rain in recent days but the accident happened on a relatively flat stretch and workers were unlikely to encounter obstacles in clearing the line, the spokesman said.  He said Rio had 'healthy stockpiles' of iron ore which were still being loaded at Dampier Port.  Meanwhile, Kalgoorlie police said a freight train derailed east of the gold mining centre about 11.30am (WDT) on Thursday.  Three pople were injured when the train's two locomotives and 20 carriages - about half its length - were derailed, Sergeant Kim Mahony said.  The trio had to be rescued by railway workers in four-wheel drives fitted to run on the railway track.  Railway access roads had been closed after storms dumped rain on the region this week, Sgt Mahony said.  'We won't be able to get anyone out there for at least a few days,' he said.  All three on board the train were treated for minor injuries, Sgt Mahony said.  'All three were taken to hospital but two have already been released and one is receiving stitches for a minor laceration to the forehead,' Sgt Mahony said.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.  
