'This is an age of skepticism, an era of cynicism,' David Shribman, the Pulitzer Prize-winning executive editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette wrote Saturday in his Globe essay How long will he keep his lustre?  'The economy is in terrible, and terrifying, shape. The Middle East, always on the verge of explosion, is living with a lit fuse. Almost nobody in North America feels that things are on the right track.  'Many of the brand names of our culture are tarnished or have suffered huge losses: Bear Stearns, Citibank, Ford, the Broadway musical, the Republican Party.  'But one brand name retains its shine, and so far has defied skepticism and battled cynicism: Barack Obama.  'Three days from now, the United States inaugurates a new president . . .  'Tradition tells us that he will have a month, maybe two, of goodwill, from the press, from his party rivals, from the public.  'But that is tradition, not law. Bill Clinton's honeymoon lasted only days.  'So among Mr. Obama's many challenges  how to bring the economy to heel, how to salve the wounds produced by the United States' war in Iraq, how to battle climate change, how to attack the problem of providing health care to all Americans  is one challenge that is uniquely his: How does the new president retain his shine?  'No American president since John F. Kennedy has had that problem, or that opportunity.  'The United States is embarking on a new start, with a man who barely has a past, but, with a father from Kenya, a mother from Kansas and a law degree from Harvard, has a remarkable history.'  Mr. Shribman went on to argue: 'Obama's challenge is real  and critical.  'At stake is not only his own reputation but also his political clout for the battles ahead, some of them impossible to foresee . . .  'All of which raises the question for the nation he must lead: Has too much hope been invested in one president-elect?'  Mr. Shribman concludes: 'Throughout his campaign, Mr. Obama asked Americans to think big. Americans did.  'Now they expect their president to do the same. The irony, or maybe the poetry, is that his presidency depends on big thinking  and big action.  Whether you agree or not, it's a provocative argument so we at globeandmail.com are pleased that Mr. Shribman will be online Monday at 10 a.m. ET to take your questions on his essay, the Obama presidency and the state of U.S. politics in general.  Join the Conversation at that time or submit a question in advance.  Your questions and Mr. Shribman's answers will appear at the bottom of this page when the discussion begins.  David Shribman, a former Boston Globe assistant managing editor, columnist and Washington bureau chief, took over as executive editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette in 2003.  He was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for journalism in 1995 for his coverage of Washington and the American political scene.  Editor's Note: globeandmail.com editors will read and allow or reject each question/comment. Comments/questions may be edited for length or clarity. HTML is not allowed. We will not publish questions/comments that include personal attacks on participants in these discussions, that make false or unsubstantiated allegations, that purport to quote people or reports where the purported quote or fact cannot be easily verified, or questions/comments that include vulgar language or libellous statements. Preference will be given to readers who submit questions/comments using their full name and home town, rather than a pseudonym.  
