Sacramento Business Journal - by Kelly Johnson Staff writer  Related News  Sacramento-area's economy could recover in early 2010, according to an independent business forecast that debuted Wednesday.  The new business review has been created by the College of Business Administration at California State University Sacramento and the Chartered Financial Analyst Institute.  The first issue of the Sacramento Business Review is available online at www.cba.csus.edu/ibrc/index.html, and will be distributed in print Jan. 13. The review will be published twice a year.  The inaugural issue examines how the national recession is affecting Sacramentos economy, specifically the sectors of real estate, energy, capital markets and the service industry, the news release said.  The idea for the public-private project came about after Sanjay Varshney, dean of the College of Business Administration, and former CFA Society of Sacramento president Jason Bell discussed that Sacramento had no independent, dedicated study of its business climate, even though its economy is larger than half the states in the nation.  This is a great team of sophisticated intellectual capital, Varshney said in the news release.  The partnership, he said, provides an independent, unbiased opinion of the economy. This is a realistic forecast.  Sacramento Business Review is not aimed solely at professional investors or business people. This is sophisticated enough for those who want a refined economic analysis, but is also basic enough for the general public, Varshney said.  In the first issue, the review reported that, because the recession impacts almost every sector of the economy, it could be early 2010, or possibly longer, before a Sacramento recovery begins.  Leisure and hospitality services have been hit particularly hard, according to the report. Restaurants have battled high fuel and transportation prices, rising food costs and reduced consumer spending.  The authors expect health care and education services to fare better than other sectors, and grow by 3 percent.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Online holiday sales lowest since 2001  [Pittsburgh]  Online holiday sales lowest since 2001  [Birmingham]  Southeast economy has more of the same in store in 2009  [Atlanta]  Higgs named to Rowan-Cabarrus Community College board  [Charlotte]  Southeast economy has more of the same in store in 2009  [Jacksonville]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Sacramento  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Business Resources  The recession might officially be here, but you wouldnt know it from talking to some owners of companies that are pushing ahead, confidence intact and expansion plans in hand.  Sponsored by  After robust growth, cell phone companies are bracing for a rough 2009.  Company finds niche repairing flawed clothes made overseas.  Company to do $50M.  When times are tough, keep your attitude positive.  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Independent Registered Investment Adviser - Robert Harrell Inc  Business Development / Sales Representative - Flangefitt Stainless Ltd  REGIONAL DIRECTOR - XL Management Company  US Sector Lead: Energy - British Consulate General  Independent Registered Investment Adviser - Robert Harrell Inc  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  San Antonio Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 8,054 SF  Use Type: Sale  San Antonio Business Directory  Texas Articles San Antonio Articles Advertising San Antonio Business Services San Antonio Career San Antonio Cars San Antonio Education San Antonio Financial Services San Antonio Health San Antonio Home Services San Antonio Insurance San Antonio Internet San Antonio Legal San Antonio Real Estate San Antonio Software San Antonio Telecommunications San Antonio Travel San Antonio  
