From left, Mark Ninmag and his son Edward, 8, say their final goodbyes to Ratana Ninmag Jan. 13 at their home. Ratana died that evening, on the day her family was to be evicted from their Herndon home.-Times Staff Photo/Shamus ...  Printer-Friendly    Post a Comment (0) Source: Fairfax County Times  To help  Donations for the Ninmag family can be sent to the Reston Bible Church, 11979 North Shore Drive, Reston, VA 20190. Write Benevolence Fund in the memo line.  After a six-month battle with colon cancer, 47-year-old Ratana Ninmag died on the day her family was to be evicted from their Herndon home.  Cards from well-wishers were tacked to the walls of the room in which she lay in her hospice bed. The Buddhist monks and the Christian minister who had spent the afternoon praying for her had left, but her family and friends remained by her side at 6:30 p.m. on Jan. 13, when she died. Her daughter, Kathleen, 14, played the violin at her bedside. Her son, Edward, 8, who had been playing outside in the street, sat on his fathers lap.  Mommys in heaven, shes not in pain, Ratanas husband, Mark, 38, told them after she passed.  Besieged from two sides  At the same time Ratana was fighting cancer, the family also was fighting foreclosure.  In 2006, Mark lost his electrician job of 15 years. Ratana worked two jobs with United Airlines at Washington Dulles International Airport in an effort to save her home from foreclosure. But the family started to miss their mortgage payments and were forced to refinance with an adjustable rate mortgage.  When the rate doubled, the Ninmags' monthly payments totaled $4,700, which was impossible for them to pay. Mark and Ratana both filed for bankruptcy in 2007, but $80,000 is still owed on their $380,000 loan. Their home, which is currently in foreclosure, is now assessed at slightly more than $200,000.  Mark found another electrician job, but he quit to care for Ratana in June 2008. They missed numerous mortgage payments and were surviving off personal savings and donations. As of Jan. 26, the family had received $16,326 in donations.  Two hours before Ratana died, they got word that they could stay in their home. Countrywide, the California-based mortgage lender that posted a $422 million loss before it was sold to Bank of America in January 2007, suspended the Ninmags' mortgage payments until April 1, 2009. In a letter addressed to Ratana and Mark, Countrywide said it would review their loan to see if they qualified for more payment assistance.  'What am I going to do?'  Ratana asked to be committed to the hospital on Christmas night because she was having trouble breathing. While there, an X-ray revealed that chemotherapy wasnt working and the tumor had grown.  [The doctor] said there was nothing he could do, Mark said. I was shocked. I felt helpless.  Kathleen had thought her mom was going to get better and that the chemotherapy treatments would work.  A few weeks ago, my dad told me, she said, and I thought, 'OK, what am I going to do without her now? How [am I going to] get through my life every day without seeing my mom or talking to her?'  On New Years Day, Mark brought his wife home for the final time. It was the last day she was able to say, I love you.  Shortly before she died, Ratanas mother, Centreville resident Sompong Manmee, 66, a native of Thailand, was still in disbelief that her daughter was going so quickly. No one in her family had ever been diagnosed with cancer, she said, and her daughter had never been sick before.  I keep telling her, Dont worry, go away, everything will be fine, Sompong said.  Christian and Buddhist funeral services were held Jan. 17 in Alexandria. Ratana and Marks family is Buddhist but within the last few months, Mark has been attending Reston Bible Church.  From our perspective, it's kind of painful to go through something like this, but to God its very precious, Kathleen said.  Now, two weeks have passed since Ratana has been gone and the house is empty of family and furniture again. Edward is running around outside, Kathleen types on her computer in her room, and Mark fiddles with his cell phone and the dishes.  He said he feels calm now. He tries to keep busy cooking and cleaning to keep his mind off everything. Finding a job, modifying his loan and raising all the money he can to negotiate with Countrywide are now his top priorities.  On Monday, he received a job offer for a contract position at an electrical company. He starts Feb. 10.
