Distraught mum and dad investors may launch a class action to reclaim some of their life savings which were lost in the collapse of Queensland-based firm Storm Financial.  The financial-planning firm went into voluntary administration earlier this month, sacking all 115 employees and leaving about $30 million in debt to the Commonwealth Bank  Storm Financial founders Emmanuel and Julie Cassimatis, who reportedly received $2 million in 'dividends' from the firm in mid-December, were nowhere to be seen at a creditors' meeting held in Brisbane today.  The meeting, headed by administrator Worrells Solvency and Forensic Accountants, was 'very calm' and attended by about 80 to 100 people, investor Terry Ryan said.  Mr Ryan, from the bayside suburb of Redcliffe, lost thousands in the firm.  '(But) I'm little bikkies compared to what they're quoting in there,' he said.  He said he hoped to get recoup some of his losses but 'certainly not all of it'.  Commerical litigation lawyer Damian Scattini said his firm, Slater &amp; Gordon, was representing about 300 Storm Financial investors.  'At last count, and that was some time ago, (our clients had lost) well over $100 million,' he said.  'So it'd be significantly more than that now. We have one person who's (lost) $12 million, and the least - if you can call it the least - is $150,000.'  Mr Scattini said 'nothing was out of the question' when asked if his clients were considering a class action.  'But what's important is that we try to find a resolution for these people to try and recover for these people as much as it possible,' he said.  His clients had each lost an average of $500,000 and came from as far afield as Afghanistan and the Torres Strait.  'These are ordinary mums and dads ... they don't really understand what's happened to them.  'They know that they're in a diabolical situation. And really what's happened to these people is grotesque.  'It's just so sad. The banks have a problem here, our clients have a problem here, certainly Storm has a problem here and with a sensible approach from everyone hopefully we can help to resolve this problem.'  Mr Scattini said the meeting had been conducted professionally.  'They're the voluntary administrators, they don't have any skin in the game ... it was handled professionally and there were really no surprises that came out of it,' he said.  Most people who attended today's meeting declined to speak to the media, saying only they had lost 'lots' in the firm's collapse.  Senior partner Ivor Worrell is expected to address the media later today.  Storm Financial is believed to have about 13,000 clients, some of whom have lost their homes and life savings after taking out margin loans to borrow money and invest heavily in the stockmarket on the firm's advice.  
