WALNUT HILLS - Foreclosures proceedings are under way for the high-end condominium development Overlook at Eden Park.  But the development firm behind the multi-million dollar project, Covington-based Joshua One, argues that the lender is to blame for the financial unraveling of the project, according to court documents filed in Hamilton County Common Pleas Court.  So far, six of the 24 condos have been sold. Prices range from $500,000 to $3 million.  In a motion filed Nov. 12, Bank of America claimed that Joshua One Development mismanaged its construction budget for the 13-story condo tower, which caused delays and led to unpaid bills for the project.  Since April 2008, more than $3.6 million in mechanics liens have been filed against the development, according to papers filed with Hamilton County Recorder.  The largest lien was filed in October by Sycamore Township-based based Omega Design Build for $1.1 million, the records show.  In its lawsuit, Bank of America argues that Joshua One defaulted on its $13.2 million construction loan in October 2007 - not because it missed a loan payment, but because its loan fund was not in balance.  Among other agreements, the covenants of the loan required that developer maintain a balance in its loan fund that equaled or exceeded the cash needed to cover all unpaid costs, according to the lawsuit. To cure out-of-balance loan, the developer executed a forbearance agreement with the bank, which called for Joshua One to contribute $400,000 to the project by Dec. 30 and another $1.2 million by Dec. 30, according to documents.  Bank of America says that those payments were never made, according to its filing on Nov. 12 in which it requested that a receiver be appointed to the property.  However, Joshua One argues that its loan was never out of balance and the construction delays were caused because Bank of America and its predecessor LaSalle Bank failed to fund its request for draws from the loan fund 'in a timely manner,' according to court filings.  Joshua One argued that its original loan agreement was for the shell and core of the project, which was substantially finished in June 2008, according to the Dec. 5 filing. 'Even if a default had occurred at the time of the entering of the forbearance agreement, it was cured by June, 2008, when the borrower completed the project,' according to a filing on Dec. 5. 'Once the borrower cured that default, the condition of the mortgage was no longer broken and the lender had no right to accelerate the maturity of the loan.' On Dec. 9, Bank of America's request for a receiver was declined by Hamilton County Common Pleas Court magistrate Michael Bachman, who said in his decision that the lender failed to provided enough evidence.  Bank of America has appealed.  Paul Zeltwanger, co-managing member of Joshua One, said he's trying to work with the bank to avoid foreclosure. 'We're trying to work out a win-win solution for all the people involved, the current owners, the sub-contractors, the bank and the equity partners,' he said. 'It's still a great asset, and this will get resolved.'
