NEW YORK, Jan. 15 /PRNewswire/ --IPSA International, Inc., (IPSA) an international investigative consulting firm, is pleased to announce Ms Jane Wexton has joined the firm's recently created Board of Advisors.  Ms Wexton has served over 18 years in the financial services industry as Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of GE Money and Chief Global Anti-Money Laundering Officer at Citibank. During her tenure, Ms Wexton developed prevention, detection and mitigation processes related to anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, antitrust and OFAC issues. She also gained extensive experience in conducting due diligence and internal investigations and has worked in over 100 countries.  Ms Wexton was most recently a partner at a major law firm with more than 650 lawyers addressing clients' issues around the globe. Her practice areas emphasize international and domestic compliance, white collar criminal law, internal investigations and due diligence.  Ms Wexton serves on the Board of Directors of the Ethics Resource Center in Washington, D.C.; the International Bar Association's Task Force on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and was a founding member of the U.S. Treasury Department's Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group. Ms Wexton is an active speaker, recent engagement topics include: FCPA: Complying &amp; Implementing Risk Management Strategies and the Intersection of Anti-Corruption and Anti-Money Laundering: Combining Internal Controls and Procedures to Reduce Risk.  'I am very pleased to welcome Jane to IPSA's board of advisors. Her experience, background and reputation within the compliance and legal sectors will serve me and the company well. Jane's unique perspective will also prove critical as IPSA makes important strategic decisions in the coming years. We could not have found a better person to fill one of our last remaining board seats,' said Dan Wachtler, President &amp; CEO.  'My seat on IPSA's Board of Advisors gives me an opportunity to share 25 years of hands on global corporate experience with and investigative and consulting company focused on providing the type of world class assistance needed to navigate an increasingly perilous international business environment,' stated Ms Wexton. 'IPSA's recent acquisition of outstanding experienced professional talent positions it for entry and leadership in managing the unprecedented challenges we face in a period of deteriorating financial markets.'  The Board of Advisors is tasked with providing advice to IPSA's leadership with respect to matters identified by the executive team including: the Company's operating strategy and activities related to potential Company acquisitions and international expansion plans.  IPSA International, Inc. is an international risk advisory firm which provides clients in the corporate, financial and legal communities with high-end investigative consulting services. IPSA's preferred practice areas are: Anti-Money Laundering, Asset Location, Intellectual Property, Fraud Investigations and Due Diligence services.  Contact: Jillian Bernaiche 602-889-1626 (office) 480-235-2066 (cell)  SOURCE IPSA International, Inc.  
