-- 911 Collision Centers, Kent Automotive, Hertz Local Edition and Nationwide Insurance combined to deliver state-of-the-art emergency extrication training to more than 150 emergency service personnel.  With advancements in vehicle design, multiple air bags and passenger restraint systems, first responders to an accident need additional training to be most effective at the scene.  Additionally, first responders are seeing more and more Hybrids at the scene of accidents and need additional training on these high voltage vehicles. Learning about the wiring and voltage on Hybrids was beneficial, stated Captain Joe Willis Phoenix Fire Department. Were at least two years behind on technology. We need all the training we can get. Hertz Local Edition provided two Hybrids each evening for display purposes. First responders learned the importance of being careful when working around un-deployed air bags, especially un-deployed side curtain bags. Budget cuts have forced many departments to eliminate extrication practice or to purchase only older vehicles to cut apart. First Responder training on late model cars is more important now than ever, said Toby Chess instructor. Kent Automotive western regional sales manger Craig Olivera added The need is here, we feel it important to sponsor these events. Nationwide Insurance stepped up and donated several vehicles for this training and 911 Collision purchased the other two cars so we could cut them apart.  Its great to have the opportunity to cut apart late model cars. I also learn a lot from other departments. Time spent talking to my counterparts and exchanging ideas is invaluable, said engineer John Montgomery of the Mesa, AZ Fire Department.  Captain John Dean, a trainer with the Phoenix Fire Department said You guys nailed it on the head. This training saves lives on both sides  first responders and accident victims. On your way home tonight, God forbid you should have an accident, just how much training do you want the first responders to have?  Patrick ONeill, 911 Collision Centers Chief Operating Officer concluded: We as repairers need to facilitate these types of training classes. There is a great need out there for this training that can help save lives right here in our neighborhoods. We are committed to hosting these classes in the communities we serve on an annual basis. I challenge other repairers to get involved and host a class in their community.  
