VERO BEACH  Mark Manera stood on a corner in Vero Beach early Saturday morning, trying to keep his hands from freezing. Despite the chilly temperatures, Manera and other volunteers from Club Change of Indian River County were conducting a food drive to stock the shelves of local food pantries. Were doing what our president-elect asked us to do, said Manera, who is acting chairman of the Indian River County Democratic party. He wants this weekend to be an opportunity for community service in honor of his inauguration. The food drive is just one of efforts designed to fulfill Barack Obamas request that Americans perform community service by the time he is inaugurated on Tuesday. A list of projects and events nationwide is posted at the national day of service Web site at www.usaservice.org.  Ray Martin of Vero Beach dropped off his donation early Saturday morning at the tent setup across from Staples on U.S. 1. Im very fortunate that I get food on a regular basis, said Martin. If theres something I cant use because it has too much sugar in it, I want to make sure that I give it to someone who needs it. Donation tents were set up Saturday in three locations; two in Vero Beach which will benefit The Source and the Indian River County Food Pantry, and another in Sebastian that will benefit the Ecumenical Food Pantry. Club Change, which consists of former Democratic campaign volunteers, expected to collect about 2,000 pounds of food by late Saturday afternoon. Theres a tremendous need to help people right here in this community, said Manera. With unemployment as bad as it is and so many people losing their homes, we need to help one another in any way we can. Mike Carch, 25, of Vero Beach was volunteering his time Saturday at the food distribution point in Sebastian near the Bank of America on County Road 512. Carch, an Obama supporter and Democrat, said that he was committed to making sure people in the community had enough to eat. I just want things to get better, said Carch, as he loaded boxes into the bed of a pick-up truck. Its a time of great need and Im so happy to be helping my community. The food drive is just the first of many activities that Club Change hopes to sponsor in Indian River County, according to founding member Jon Pine. Its goal is to promote change from politics as usual and a change in the way America moves forward. Its all in the beginning phases, said Pine, a photographer from Vero Beach. In addition to the food drive, we hope to get other events going like clothing collections and voter registration drives. The whole idea about change is that it comes from the bottom up, not the top down. Grace Savage of Sebastian brought a box of food to the drive and ended up volunteering as well. This is America and were all in this together, said Savage. We need to take care of one another. 
