New officers for the Virginia Commonwealth University Massey Cancer Center are: chairman, David A. Lyons with Lowe Brockenbrough and Co.; vice chairman, C.T. Hill with SunTrust Bank -- Mid-Atlantic; and secretary, community volunteer Vickie Snead. New members are: Shelly E. Arthur; Nancy J. Chewning, Paul W. Croston, Terrell Luck Harrigan, Benjamin J. Lambert III, Jarold D. Langley, Betty Sue Grandis LePage, James Scott Merritt III, Julian T. Ottley, Ann Ailor Thornton, Robert S. Ukrop and Christopher J. Ziegler.  Cheryl LeCroy has been elected to the board of directors for the National Association for Continence.  New officers for the board of directors of Communities in Schools of Chesterfield are: chair, Larry Murphy; vice chair, Jay Lafler; treasurer, Danny Smith; executive secretary, Martha Frickert. New board members are: Richard Cushman with Capital One; Rick Linas with Costco; Rob Jones with Bank of America; Lisa Randall with DuPont Spruance; and Kelly Rivers with Philip Morris USA.  New officers on the board of directors for the Virginia Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy are: chair, C. Wayne Adkins; vice chair, Nicholas Zizzo with Capital Advisory Group; secretary, Cherry Hedges with Virginia Credit Union; treasurer, Ann Rankin with Virginia Division of Securities; and immediate past chair, Tina Lambert with the Virginia Society of Certified Public Accountants. At-large board members are: Jane Cummings with Accurate Solutions; Sarah Finley with Virginia Council on Economic Education; Robert Freeman with Keiter, Stephens, Hurst, Gary and Shreaves; Courtney Fleming with Virginia Bankers Association; Thomas Garner with Virginia Bankers Association; Louis Gorr with Virginia Cooperative Extension; Barnard Hickok with Resources for Independent Living Inc.; Diane Mattis with Virginia Association of Insurance Agents; Lori O'Toole with Junior Achievement of Central Virginia; Melanie Rose with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond; Judy Sams with the Virginia Department of Education; Shannon Tackett with Northwest Federal Credit Union Foundation; Locke Trigg with the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions; and John Vincie III with PBGH.  Tags relating to this article:  new officers - 1 articles  associations - 6 articles  Can't find what you're looking for? Try our quick search:  
