       Oil prices slide below 119 dollars 8 hours ago LONDON (AFP)  Oil prices fell another 2.0 dollars Tuesday to beneath 119 dollars a barrel, as slowing US demand for energy offset tensions over crude-rich Iran, traders said.  The market also slid as Tropical Storm Edouard was set to cause minimal damage to energy installations in the Gulf of Mexico, analysts said. Brent North Sea crude for September delivery dropped 2.50 dollars a barrel to 118.18 dollars in electronic trading.  New York&amp;#039;s main contract, light sweet crude for September shed two dollars to 119.41 dollars a barrel.  Crude futures were falling &amp;amp;quot;with concerns over slowing demand for energy still dominating investor sentiment,&amp;amp;quot; said Andrey Kryuchenkov at the Sucden brokerage in London.  On Monday, Brent oil had fallen below 119 dollars for the first time since early May after US economic indicators had emphasised weakness in the world&amp;#039;s biggest economy, dealers said.  The monthly US Commerce Department survey showed consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic output, had cooled in June while inflationary pressures accelerated.  The United States is the world&amp;#039;s biggest user of energy and any signs of slowing consumer spending tends to weigh on global oil demand projections. Elsewhere, Tropical Storm Edouard made landfall on the upper Texas coast Tuesday, lashing the Gulf of Mexico with 65 miles-per-hour (100 kilometres-per-hour) winds and driving rains, the National Hurricane Center said. The storm made landfall at around 1200 GMT after picking up strength in the open waters overnight, but was expected to lose some of its punch as it headed inland.  Oil industry operators in the area -- a crucial hub of the US petroleum industry -- said they were taking safety precautions as the storm neared. &amp;amp;quot;Edouard is unlikely to do much damage to coastal area refineries,&amp;amp;quot; said Kevin Norrish, energy analyst at Barclays Capital.  Meanwhile, Iran on Tuesday faced a fresh ultimatum from six global powers to accept an incentives package to freeze sensitive nuclear work or face more UN sanctions.  Western warnings of fresh sanctions also appeared as Iran declared that it could block the Strait of Hormuz, the crucial Gulf waterway through which much of the world&amp;#039;s oil supplies passes.  Tensions over Iran&amp;#039;s nuclear programme had surged on Monday after the Islamic republic missed a deadline over the weekend to respond to an international package of incentives aimed at persuading it to freeze uranium enrichment. Iran, the world&amp;#039;s fourth biggest producer of crude oil, has refused to suspend uranium enrichment it says is aimed solely at producing fuel for nuclear power production. The United States and its allies fear the programme is a cover for developing nuclear weapons.   http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5husDVDl7pd_34B3heFdAlBgdNpAQ   
