TOKYO, Aug 1 (Reuters) - The dollar edged up towards a one-month high against the euro on Friday before monthly U.S. jobs data later in the day, with investors viewing the report as a key hurdle for whether the U.S. currency can sustain its rebound.    A mixed bag of U.S. data released the previous day showing the economy expanding less than expected in the second quarter, a spike in jobless claims but a pick-up in Midwest business activity did not prove decisive for the dollar. [ID:nN31399964]    Investors are still looking for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates later in the year, just as mounting signs of economic slowdown from the euro zone to Australia have started to take a toll on other major currencies.    &amp;#039;The dollar proved surprisingly resilient despite Thursday&amp;#039;s downbeat data,&amp;#039; said Motonari Ogawa, director of forex trading at Barclays Bank.    &amp;#039;No doubt the jobs data will generate a host of opinions, but the market is likely waiting for a surprise -- whether it be on the upside or downside -- as the next catalyst,&amp;#039; said Ogawa.    In a Reuters poll, economists forecast that companies shed 75,000 workers in July in what would be the seventh straight month of job losses.    The dollar fell 0.2 percent from late U.S. trade to 107.63 yen  after hitting a one-month peak of 108.39 yen on electronic trading platform EBS the previous day.    Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda was overhauling his cabinet on Friday in a bid to shore up his flagging popularity, domestic media reported. But analysts said the reshuffle of top officials should not have much impact on the yen. [ID:nT196476]    The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.5559 , not far from a one-month low of $1.5522 hit earlier this week and well off a record peak of $1.6040 struck last month. Against the yen, the euro fell 0.4 percent to 167.46 yen .    Traders said the euro&amp;#039;s weakness against the yen, with selling emerging in Asia following the recent string of weak European data, was weighing on the single European currency.    &amp;#039;The euro appears to be peaking out. The ECB hiked rates in July and inflation still remains a threat, but indicators this week did not show euro zone economic conditions in a positive light,&amp;#039; said Takahide Nagasaki, chief forex strategist at Daiwa Securities SMBC.    Data this week showed euro zone economic sentiment hit its lowest in over five years in July, pointing to a stagnant economy and boosting expectations that interest rates will be kept on hold this year with inflation still at a record high. [ID:nL9244016]    Beyond the jobs data, market players were also keeping a close eye on oil prices. The greenback recovered from its lows on Thursday as crude oil prices  fell back towards 12-week lows and suffered their biggest monthly drop in nearly four years in July.    RATE CUT SPECULATION HITS AUSSIE    Speculation over near-term interest rate cuts plagued the Australian dollar on Friday.    Columnist Terry McCrann said the Reserve Bank of Australia would use its post-meeting statement on Tuesday to set out the case for lower interest rates, following two hikes earlier in the year that lifted the cash rate to a 12-year peak of 7.25 percent. [ID:nSYD209018]    The Aussie dropped 0.6 percent to $0.9364  after hitting a seven-week low of $0.9356. Traders said some hedge funds were bailing out of long positions in the Aussie and kiwi.    The New Zealand dollar fell 0.9 percent to 10-month lows around $0.7270 on deepening concerns over the local financial sector after the country&amp;#039;s largest fund manager said it was suspending activity in one of its funds.[ID:nWEL205638]    The kiwi has taken a hit since the Reserve Bank of New Zealand cut rates last week and RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard signalled this week that the central bank had &amp;#039;plenty of room&amp;#039; for cutting rates further.    (Additional reporting by Satomi Noguchi; Editing by Michael Watson)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
