TOKYO, Aug 6 (Reuters) - The dollar held firm near seven-week highs against the yen and euro on Wednesday, supported by a continuing slip in crude oil prices that helped offset any disappointment the market may have felt over slightly diminished prospects of an interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.    The Fed kept interest rates steady at 2.0 percent on Wednesday as widely expected. Investors were disappointed that only Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher voted against the decision as markets had expected Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser to dissent as well following his recently hawkish comments. [ID:nN05304800]    But analysts say crude oil has become the currency market&amp;#039;s main immediate driving factor.    Crude oil was stuck at a three-month low of $118 per barrel on Wednesday.  Lower oil has soothed concern that high energy prices will remain a drag on the U.S. economy at a time when consumer prices are showing an unexpectedly fast rise.    Market participants also pointed to a sharp rise on Wall Street fuelled by lower oil prices as a dollar-friendly factor.    &amp;#039;Expectations of higher U.S. interest rates diminished slightly after the Fed meeting, but the dollar is likely to stay on a steady footing as equities have gained,&amp;#039; said Hideaki Inoue, chief manager of forex trading at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Bank.    The dollar rose 0.1 percent against the yen from late New York trade to 108.41 yen, hovering just below a seven-week high of 108.44 yen struck on Tuesday.    Traders say the dollar is on track to test key resistance at 108.60 yen, though they expect selling by Japanese exporters squaring positions ahead of Japan&amp;#039;s &amp;#039;obon&amp;#039; summer holidays to slow the greenback&amp;#039;s ascent.    The euro was little changed at $1.5471  with Thursday&amp;#039;s ECB meeting eyed to decide the near-term course of the single currency.    The Australian dollar was 0.2 percent higher at $0.9178 , taking a breather after slumping to a four-month low of $0.9132 on Tuesday after the Reserve Bank of Australia kept rates unchanged at 7.25 percent but hinted strongly of an upcoming easing.    But traders said the Aussie is likely to remain under downward pressure due to the recent slide in commodity prices in addition to prospects of lower interest rates.    (Editing by Michael Watson)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
