SYDNEY, Aug 13 (Reuters) - Wages in Australia rose at their fastest pace in at least a decade last quarter while consumer sentiment bounced solidly in August, perhaps tempering the chance of aggressive cuts in official interest rates. Government figures out on Wednesday showed wages excluding bonuses rose 1.2 percent in the second quarter, the biggest rise since the series began in 1997. Annual pay growth picked up to 4.2 percent, from 4.1 percent in the first quarter, led by a 6.7 percent rise in the booming mining sector.    Analysts noted that the overall pace was still below the 4.5 percent threshold considered a risk to inflation, so it would probably not dissuade the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) from lowering rates at its policy meeting next month. &amp;#039;The stage is still set for a cut,&amp;#039; said Rob Henderson, chief economist markets at nabCapital.    &amp;#039;But this is a sobering number and should remind people that cost pressures continue to bubble in the economy,&amp;#039; he added. &amp;#039;It argues for the Reserve Bank to be cautious in any easing and to go for 25 basis points rather than 50.&amp;#039;    Investors have been pricing in a cut of at least 25 basis points in the 7.25 percent cash rate since RBA Governor Glenn Stevens last week said these was growing scope for a less restrictive monetary policy.    The RBA has been concerned that a combination of a jobless rate near 30-year lows and core inflation at 17-year highs would eventually feed through to rising wage claims.    IN CHECK    But with employment growth now easing and domestic demand slowing sharply, the central bank has sounded more confident that wage growth will remain tolerable.    Indeed, RBA Governor Glenn Stevens last month played down the risk that inflation would feed through to pay deals, calling wage growth &amp;#039;contained&amp;#039;.    Analysts seemed to agree.    &amp;#039;While the step up in wages is consistent with a very tight labour market in 2007/08, we suspect that a softening in the year ahead will keep wage costs in check,&amp;#039; said Su-Lin Ong, a senior economist at RBC Capital Markets.    She noted annual wage growth had been between 4 and 4.2 percent for the past three years, so this latest result was not out of bounds.    &amp;#039;It is the leading activity indicators which have been more important in the policy debate than lagging wage and inflation data,&amp;#039; said Ong. &amp;#039;While today&amp;#039;s data may argue against a more aggressive cut in September, a 25 basis-point move looks likely.&amp;#039;    Supporting that argument was a rebound in consumer confidence in August as petrol prices fell sharply.    The Westpac-Melbourne Institute consumer sentiment index climed 9.1 percent, to 86.2 in August, the third-biggest jump in the past five years.    &amp;#039;The data shows just how sensitive consumers are to petrol prices, with the recent drop instantly making consumers feel less pessimistic,&amp;#039; said George Tharenou, an economist at UBS.    Petrol prices had fallen 8 percent since the previous survey in July, having climbed 15 percent in the previous three months.    The drop was reflected in a big improvement in sentiment on family finances. The index measuring the state of finances compared to a year ago jumped 18 percent in August, while that for finances over the coming 12 months climbed 16.9 percent.    Consumers also felt better about the economic outlook for the next 12 months and in a glimmer of light for stressed retailers, the index measuring whether it was a good time to buy a major household item edged up by 4.1 percent.    (Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
