TOKYO, Aug 19 (Reuters) - The dollar was little changed near a seven-month high against a basket of currencies on Tuesday, while gold and oil prices dropped on concern that the global economy was slowing down.    The dollar&amp;#039;s two-week surge has been reinforced by the slide in gold and oil, as investors have rushed to unwind bets that major world economies would weather the U.S. downturn and the credit crisis better.    But analysts said the dollar may have a harder time building on its two-week surge. Worries about the health of U.S. mortgage financing giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac returned to the fore on a report saying they may need to be nationalised.    Toru Umemoto, chief currency strategist for Japan at Barclays Capital, said any move by the U.S. government to inject funds into Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would hurt Wall Street stocks and the dollar.    &amp;#039;This is a pretty severe issue,&amp;#039; Umemoto said. &amp;#039;The forex market is likely to start paying attention to more of the dollar negative factors.&amp;#039;    The jitters about the U.S. financial sector sparked a slide in Asian stocks, helping the yen post broad gains as market players unwound carry trades funded with the low-yielding Japanese currency. The Nikkei average  fell 2.5 percent.    The dollar dipped 0.3 percent from late U.S. trade at 109.79 yen , backing away from a seven-month peak of 110.67 yen struck last week.    The dollar index, which gauges its performance against six major currencies, was little changed at 77.704 .    The yen showed little reaction to the BOJ keeping rates on hold at 0.5 percent but downgrading its assessment of the economy for a second straight month. That followed data last week showing a second-quarter economic contraction and probable recession. [ID:nT269934]    The euro dipped 0.1 percent to $1.4687 , slipping back near a six-month trough of $1.4645 touched on trading platform EBS on Monday in early Asia trade. Against the yen, the euro shed 0.3 percent to a three-month low of 161.01 yen     Gold fell about $10 back towards a nine-month low [GOL/], and oil  shed more than $1 at one point to near a three-month trough.    In the past month, the daily correlation between euro/dollar and gold has been a positive 0.98 -- showing the two moving almost in sync with each other.    The euro has tumbled 6 percent since the start of the month and the Australian dollar has shed 8 percent as investors have dumped the currencies of the two economies that have surprised the most with their slowdowns.    &amp;#039;The theme in the market is a global recession at the moment, so market players find it more comfortable to sell European currencies rather than the dollar, which has already been battered so much,&amp;#039; said a trader at a big Japanese bank.    Analysts said the euro may be poised to gain in the near-term because of the severity of its drop to a six-month low, but that a sustained rebound is unlikely.    The ZEW survey of German investor sentiment later in the day will be the latest hurdle for the battered single European currency after data last week showed the euro zone economy contracting in the second quarter for the first time ever.    The Australian dollar inched up 0.1 percent to $0.8689 .    The Aussie recovered from an initial dip after the minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia&amp;#039;s August meeting again suggested that a rate cut is looming but did nothing to sway expectations towards a more aggressive half-point cut. [ID:nSYD127105]    Money market futures are pricing in a 50-50 chance of a half-point cut from 7.25 percent at the RBA&amp;#039;s next policy meeting in September.    Signs of a slowing Australian economy have pushed the RBA towards cutting rates, slamming the Aussie just as the sell-off in gold has also spurred selling because the country exports metals and other raw materials.    (Additional reporting by Rika Otsuka; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
