       http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/01/business...amp;oref=slogin     QUOTE     Exxons Second-Quarter Earnings Set a Record    By CLIFFORD KRAUSS  HOUSTON  Exxon Mobil reported the best quarterly profit ever for a corporation on Thursday, beating its own record, but investors sold off shares as oil and natural gas prices resumed their recent decline.  Record earnings for Exxon, the worlds largest publicly traded oil company, have become routine as the surge of oil prices in recent years has filled its coffers. The companys income for the second quarter rose 14 percent, to &amp;amp;#036;11.68 billion, compared to the same period a year ago. That beat the previous record of &amp;amp;#036;11.66 billion set by Exxon in the last three months of 2007.  Exxons profits were nearly &amp;amp;#036;90,000 a minute over the quarter, but it was less than Wall Street had expected. Exxons shares fell 4.6 percent, to close at &amp;amp;#036;80.43. (The company calculates that it pays &amp;amp;#036;274,000 a minute in taxes and spends &amp;amp;#036;884,000 a minute to run the business.)  The disappointment from investors is bound to put added pressure on Exxon Mobils chairman and chief executive, Rex Tillerson, to search for new fields in politically precarious areas of Africa and the Middle East.   The sell-off in Exxon stock, as well as other oil company stocks, continued a trend of recent weeks as oil and natural gas prices have fallen sharply from record levels. But investor disappointment was also a response to problems that surfaced in the companys report, particularly a 10 percent drop in oil production and a 3 percent decline in natural gas production from the second quarter of 2007.  The production decrease, the second quarterly drop in a row, was viewed with concern by energy analysts, especially since the company spent &amp;amp;#036;7 billion to find and produce from new fields, nearly 40 percent more than in the same quarter last year.  It raises the question of whether the company has been underinvesting the last few years, said Brian Youngberg, an energy analyst at Edward Jones, an investment firm. High commodity prices are driving the record earnings, not growth in production volumes of oil and gas.  Crude oil prices in the second quarter averaged more than &amp;amp;#036;124 a barrel, 91 percent higher than the same quarter in 2007, according to a recent report by Oppenheimer &amp;amp;amp; Company, an investment bank. Natural gas prices averaged &amp;amp;#036;10.80 for every thousand cubic feet, up 43 percent from the quarter a year ago. After spiking even higher in early July, prices settled on Thursday at &amp;amp;#036;124.08 for oil and about &amp;amp;#036;9.18 for natural gas.  Despite its production problems, Exxon earned &amp;amp;#036;10 billion in the quarter from exploration and production, up from &amp;amp;#036;6 billion in the same period a year ago. But the companys &amp;amp;#036;1.6 billion in profit from refining was less than half that in last years quarter because of lower worldwide refining margins. Earnings from its chemical business of &amp;amp;#036;687 million were down &amp;amp;#036;326 million from last year.  Company officials said they were working hard to increase production with new projects in Africa, the Middle East and the Gulf of Mexico. The company reported that it intended to disburse &amp;amp;#036;125 billion in capital spending over the next five years in an effort to produce more oil and natural gas.  Royal Dutch Shell, Eni and Repsol, three of Europes largest oil companies, also reported strong profits on Thursday, although their production results disappointed analysts. Shell reported its output had declined by 1.6 percent in the quarter, and Repsols production fell by nearly 20 percent. Enis production was slightly higher.  Nevertheless Shell, Europes largest oil company, reported a 33 percent increase in second-quarter profit, to &amp;amp;#036;11.56 billion, from &amp;amp;#036;8.67 billion in the period a year ago.  Oil companies are under pressure to find new reserves as their traditional fields age and they face increasing competition from state-run oil companies in Russia and the Middle East. Shell is also looking to make up for production lost in Nigeria, where militants attacked an offshore production vessel in June, and in Russia, where it had to sell its share in the Sakhalin Island oil and natural gas project to the state-controlled energy company Gazprom last year.  Adding together the output of all the major international oil companies, including Chevron, Conoco, BP, Shell, Total and Exxon, this appears to be the fourth straight quarter of production declines, according to Barclays Capital analysts. Barclays said the total decline might exceed 600,000 barrels a day, reflecting the difficulties the oil companies had in gaining access to new regions to make up for the decline of mature fields. (Total will report its results on Friday.)   Exxons oil and natural gas production tumbled in the second quarter because of Venezuelas expropriation of Exxons assets last year, labor and political strife in Nigeria and declining production in many fields around the world.  Meanwhile, under the terms of Exxons contracts, governments in Russia, Angola and other places where it operates gained a larger share of production from Exxon and other international companies as crude oil prices rose. With prices now declining, Exxon may show higher production levels in future quarters even if profit is not as robust.   Democrats in Congress were quick to criticize Exxons profit, hoping that the resentment felt by many drivers over high gasoline and diesel prices could help them in an election year.   Inside the boardrooms at the major oil companies, its Christmas in July, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. Whats shocking is that Big Oil is plowing these profits into stock buybacks instead of increasing production or investing in alternative energy.   The company purchased &amp;amp;#036;8 billion of its own shares over the quarter, reducing shares outstanding by 1.7 percent.  Kenneth Cohen, an Exxon vice president, said oil companies needed the profits to search for more oil and gas. He also challenged Congress to open up waters in the Gulf of Mexico and off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts to drilling, as well as other federal lands where drilling is prohibited.  Our Congress needs to give us access to those areas that are currently off limits to the industry, he said.  Exxons income of &amp;amp;#036;2.22 a share compared with &amp;amp;#036;10.26 billion, or &amp;amp;#036;1.83 a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Revenue rose 40 percent, to &amp;amp;#036;138.1 billion, from &amp;amp;#036;98.4 billion in the quarter a year ago.     See, some companies  are  doing well in this economy&amp;amp;#33;   What?   Oh.                        
