LONDON (Thomson Financial) - The dollar was higher after a strong rise in U.S. inflation and slowing euro zone growth.    &amp;#039;Dollar is dragged by the higher-than-expected 0.8 percent increase in July CPI and bigger-than-expected 450,000 rise in weekly jobless claims,&amp;#039; said Ashraf Laidi at CMC Markets.    &amp;#039;The reports highlight that rising inflation and slowing growth is not limited to Europe, and neither is the deteriorating central banking dilemma,&amp;#039; he added.    Indeed, growth was slowing in Europe with Eurostat reporting that GDP in the euro zone fell by 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the first quarter for a 1.5 percent year-on-year gain. Both were in line with expectations.    The markets also brushed aside news that inflation in the euro zone during July was not as bad as initially feared. Eurostat said the annual harmonised index of consumer prices rose a final 4.0 percent year-on-year in July, down from the provisional estimate of 4.1 percent.    Despite the contraction of the euro zone economy, analysts dismissed talk that the European Central Bank will be cutting interest rates soon as its eyes remain focused on inflationary pressures. Inflation at 4.0 percent is double its target rate.    &amp;#039;If euro area GDP growth in the third quarter does show some positive growth, then in our view the ECB is unlikely to yield to pressure for lower rates at least during this year,&amp;#039; said Barclays Capital analyst Julian Callow.    However, the ECB could be in a position to cut rates by next year, they added.    &amp;#039;With weakening activity and falling energy inflation bringing the headline rate down sharply in the coming months, we still expect interest rates to start falling early next year and reach 3 percent by year-end,&amp;#039; said Jennifer McKeown, European economist at Capital Economics.    At 1501 GMT the euro was at $1.4894.    The pound languished near the lowest level for almost two years against the greenback, falling to 1.8678 dollars in Asian trade, after the Bank of England issued a gloomy economic outlook.    The central bank had said on Wednesday that British inflation could fall sharply toward the government&amp;#039;s target of 2.0 percent from early 2009, which prompted traders to bet on interest rate cuts sooner than previously expected.    In European trade, the pound has recovered some of its losses and is trading back above 1.87 dollars.    xx@thomsonreuters.com    ss/rw    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
