 Monday, Aug 18, 2008    Posted on Mon, Aug. 18, 2008     Natural gas surge fuels worries about glut    By JIM FUQUAY   jfuquay@star-telegram.com       If the United States continues to produce as much natural gas as it has in the years first five months, the country will see a 35-year high in annual production in 2008.  Is that too much of a good thing, at least from a producers point of view?    Thanks in large part to the drilling boom in the Barnett Shale and other new natural gas fields, U.S. natural gas production is up nearly 9 percent through May. At that rate, output this year will rise to nearly 22 trillion cubic feet, the highest since 1973s 22.6 trillion cubic feet, the all-time record.   Meanwhile, there are more active U.S. drilling rigs than at any time since 1985, according to the Baker Hughes rig count. There were 1,967 rigs working across the country and offshore, up 88 rigs, or 5 percent, from a year earlier, the Houston-based oilfield supplier said.   And four out of five of those are looking for natural gas.   Last week, the Energy Information Administration released its latest short-term outlook for natural gas, which predicted an 8 percent gain in production for 2008. And in 2009, EIA said, &amp;quot;production is expected to increase by 3.7 percent,&amp;quot; enough to roughly match the 1973 peak.     Good for consumers     From a consumers perspective, it could continue a recent break from the sharply higher natural gas prices seen in the first half of the year. After peaking at more than $13.50 per 1,000 cubic feet in early July, natural gas futures plunged, closing Friday at $8.10.   That coincided with crude oils fall from record highs during the same period. While the spike in crude oil has led Americans to cut their gasoline consumption, natural gas demand is expected to grow.   The EIA predicted a 3 percent increase in use nationally this year and 1.7 percent next year. Still, thats less than half the supply growth, and thats a shift from recent history.   &amp;quot;We hadnt shown a growth mode for years. Its been like a treadmill,&amp;quot; George Hopley, natural gas analyst with Barclays Capital, said of U.S. natural gas production.  There were changes in the market, he said, but &amp;quot;as fast as we lost industrial demand, we gained power demand&amp;quot; to generate electricity with natural gas.     &amp;quot;It worked out pretty well. Now were in a growth mode, and the question is: How do we balance this growth mode that seems to have some legs?&amp;quot;     So far, various industry players have recommended broad policy changes to increase demand. For example, Texas investor T . Boone Pickens  has urged Congress to support a wholesale conversion of the countrys  transportation fleet from gasoline and diesel to compressed natural gas . Others tout natural gas  a major component in  electricity generation   as  a replacement for electricity plants now fueled by coal , which is under fire for its heavy emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas implicated in global warming.   Those, however, are years-long initiatives. Higher natural gas supply is here today and will be larger tomorrow.      Bad for producers     The combination has some financial analysts raising the issue with producers. For example,  Chesapeake Energy Chairman Aubrey McClendon , after extolling the virtues of the companys emerging prospects in Louisianas Haynesville Shale, brought up the subject during the companys latest earnings conference call even before  he was asked.     &amp;quot;Now before you become concerned about longer-term natural gas prices as a result of the sheer size of the Haynesville, please remember some likely natural constraints to the plays growth,&amp;quot;  McClendon cautioned.  Its likely to take several years to build the pipeline capacity to move gas out of the field, which itself should take decades to fully develop.  Constraints on new production and declines in older fields,  &amp;quot;plus increasing demand from the U.S. power sector should be sufficient, in our view, to prevent a U.S. gas glut from developing.&amp;quot;     EOG Chairman Mark Papa takes a similar view.      &amp;quot;We see the overall total Barnett field gas production peaking in 2009&amp;quot;  at about 5 billion cubic feet per day, he told financial analysts on EOGs second-quarter conference call. &amp;quot; Therefore, new resource plays will have to be the growth driver after 2009,&amp;quot;  he said, and he doesnt foresee new EOG sources,   such as its play in Canadas Horn River Basin, filling that gap until 2011 or later.      &amp;quot;When you view supply growth in this context, the possible emergence of new domestic resource play is more digestible,&amp;quot;  Papa said.   Devon Energy, the largest producer of natural gas in the Barnett Shale, acknowledges the growing supply, but two weeks ago announced it was increasing its exploration and development budget.   &amp;quot;We maintain a business strategy and  production plan based on a long-term view.    We dont let short-term variations in the market dictate our plans,&amp;quot;   said Chip Minty, a spokesman for the Oklahoma City-based producer.   The short term can present its own problems, however. Consider Freeport LNG, which in June opened its $850 million terminal south of Houston. Freeport is the result of an eight-year plan to build a terminal to import liquefied natural gas  natural gas that has been chilled to about 260 degrees below zero  from overseas producers.   On Aug. 1, however, Freeport LNG asked the Energy Department for permission to  export  LNG that it previously imported. The company said in its application that with increased shale gas production and lower prices in the United States,  it was unlikely to import significant quantities in the near future , according to  Platts LNG Daily , an industry news service.   LNG backers have invested an estimated $7 billion in LNG terminals around the Gulf of Mexico and the East Coast. LNG imports have fallen by over half from a year ago, and more U.S. terminals are scheduled to open this year.    Demand and prices for LNG overseas remains high , however, leading some U.S. producers to mention the possibility of exporting LNG.   Chesapeakes McClendon briefly discussed the LNG market for U.S. gas during his Aug. 5 earnings call with analysts.  Noting that natural gas was selling in Europe for roughly double its U.S. price , he said that &amp;quot;were trying to get it on a boat and get it to some overseas markets.&amp;quot;     
