SYDNEY, Aug 6 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar was subdued near four-month lows on Wednesday, pulled down by growing expectations of an aggressive domestic interest rate cut as early as next month and sliding commodity prices.    * Financial markets are now almost fully pricing in a 50 basis point rate cut in September , the first cut in seven years, after the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) said on Tuesday there was scope to move towards an easier monetary policy bias.    * On the other hand, the Federal Reserve on Tuesday maintained its focus on checking inflation pressures, giving the U.S. dollar a lift. The Fed held U.S. rates steady and offered little clue as to when it might push borrowing costs higher. [nN05304800]    * That saw yield spreads between two-year U.S. and Australian government bonds shrink to their lowest level this year, dropping to 338 basis points.    * By 9:20 a.m., the Aussie dollar  fell to $0.9160/64 against the U.S. dollar, having slumped to a four-month low of $0.9130 in offshore trade, and weaker than $0.9222/27 late here on Tuesday.    * Further clues on domestic demand will be provided by the official housing finance report for June. A Reuters poll forecast a fall of 2.1 percent month-on-month, as demand remained soft on the back of decade-high interest rates and record petrol prices.    * Lower commodities also dragged down the Aussie. The CRB commodities index  shed 0.9 percent as oil prices fell below $120 a barrel. Australia is a big exporter of natural resources and the country posted a rare trade surplus in June.    * Higher Wall Street stocks failed to support the high-yielding Aussie. The Aussie held just above a three-month low against the yen , having fallen to 98.68 yen in offshore trade.    * Australian bill futures  and short-dated bond futures extended gains as investors prepared for rate cuts in the coming months. That helped the curve turn steeper.    * Local bonds also outperformed U.S. Treasuries which fell as a rally on Wall Street and lower oil prices lured investors away from safe haven government debt. The Fed&amp;#039;s decision to hold interest rates also weighed.    * September bill futures  rose 0.100 points to 92.77 while the three-year contract  added 0.015 points to 94.160. The 10-year bond contract  eased by 0.025 points to 93.970.    (Reporting by Anirban Nag; Editing by James Thornhill)    .    ng    COPYRIGHT    Copyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.    The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
