 Andy Looking Out For His "Kids" Post Deleted from Delusional's Website   Posted by Baron on February 18, 2009 at 9:28pm   ASD-Biz forum       I wanted to share this post which was deleted from the ASDelusional website. It is astounding that Barb seems to be praising Andy for protecting Faye's "kids" with no thought for the kids whose college funds were wiped out because of the lies Andy Bowdoin told to sell unregistered securities.     Barb McIntyre wrote:  "When the government went after the kids, Andy, just like Busby, was not willing to take the chance on what Cowden may do to them. That is the way I see it, nothing documented, just common sense."   +  +  Anyone else think the "kids" Barb believes Andy may have been nobly protecting when he gave the members money to the government refers to the adult son and daughter-in-law of Faye Bowdoin? The government "went after" the  property  (homes and cars) of Mrs. Bowdoin's adult son and daughter-in-law because the Harris' home mortgage was paid off, and a car and boat were purchased, with ASD funds and funds withdrawn from AdSurfDaily's Bank of America accounts and deposited into newly established accounts at Capital City National Bank in the name of a business named Bowdoin/Harris Enterprises. Bowdoin/Harris Enterprises was incorporated in Florida in June of 2008.    Just in case Barb's right, and she seems to have a close connection to the Bowdoin's, if Andy was motivated to give up all claims to the  members funds  in order to protect George and Judy Harris, let's see what the kids were up to, that caught the eye of the government:    June l0, 2008  George Harris and Faye Bowdoin opened a Bowdoin/Harris Enterprises bank account at Capital City National Bank (CCNB) using $l77,900.l2 withdrawn from AdSurfDailys Bank of America accounts.    June ll, 2008  Judy and George Harris purchase new car for $28,607.67 with funds in an ASD bank account at BOA; the vehicle owners are the Harriss.    June 23, 2008  George Harris transferred $l57,2l6.79 from CCNB account to Citi Mortgage, to pay off the mortgage on the home he and Judy were buying.    "Kids" George and Judy took money that had been "paid to the order of AdSurfDaily" by the members and used it as if it was their own.  They  didn't have to use what was left of their  personal income  after they paid federal income taxes and FICA, like you and I would have to do.    Andy may have been worried about those kids, but I'm saving my sympathy for the kids whose college funds were raided, or whose homes were foreclosed on.  -------------------------------------------------  End of transferred post
