      Check with your local bank to see what donations they're accepting.  Westpac is taking donations.  Cut and pasted below from here   http://www.westpac.com.au/internet/publish...ease+9+Feb+2009   9 February 2009  Westpac donates &#036;1 million to Victorian bushfire appeal  Westpac today announced it would donate &#036;1 million to the Victorian Bush Fire Relief Appeal and will match all staff donations to support victims of the Victorian bushfires.  The bank will also issue its Disaster Relief Package for impacted Westpac customers and is working on a range of other options to provide assistance, including making staff available to support community services operating in impacted areas.  "Our thoughts are with all those people who have been affected by these devastating bushfires," Westpac Group Executive Retail and Business Banking, Peter Hanlon said.  "Westpac will provide all assistance possible to support affected customers and local communities through these very difficult times.  "We opened a number of Westpac branches in impacted areas last night to enable affected people to cash emergency relief cheques and we will put extra staff on the ground throughout this week to provide additional support as required. We will also fast track all insurance claims and make emergency cash payments and encourage customers to call our insurance hotline on 1300 369 989."  In addition to the &#036;1 million donation to the Victorian Bush Fire Relief Appeal, Westpac has activated its Disaster Relief Package which offers immediate support to affected Westpac customers including;      * Customers with Westpac home loans may apply to defer repayments for up to three months     * General insurance assessment and decisions will be fast tracked     * Affected businesses with existing loans can request loan restructuring without incurring the usual bank establishment fees     * Affected credit card customers may request an emergency credit limit increase     * Affected customers with Westpac personal loans can apply to refinance their loan at a discounted fixed interest rate     * Westpac will waive interest penalties for affected customers wishing to withdraw term deposits   Westpac customers who wish to utilise these special relief measures should contact Westpac Telephone Banking on 132 032, Business Direct on 132 772 or their business banking relationship manager.  Westpac is also taking donations on behalf of the Victorian Bushfire Relief Appeal. Donations can be made at any branch of the Westpac bank and online. The account details are as follows:  Name: Victorian Bushfire Relief Appeal BSB: 033688 A/C: 379004  
