          Padraig Harrington has been named The European Tour Golfer of the Month for July in recognition of his outstanding performance at Royal Birkdale, where he successfully defended his Open Championship title. Harringtons four stroke victory over Ian Poulter made him the first European since James Braid in 1905/6 to retain The Open Championship, and the 16th player in history to win back-to-back Opens. His victory also lifted him to a career high of third place on the Official World Golf Rankings. Twelve months earlier at Carnoustie, Harrington became the first Irishman in 60 years to win The Open, and he repeated the feat with an inspired performance in the ferocious conditions at Royal Birkdale. Only three other golfers  Curtis Strange (US Open 1989), Nick Faldo (Masters 1990) and Tiger Woods (US PGA 2000, Masters 2002, Open 2006 and US PGA 2007)  have successfully defended Major titles in the last 20 years. I think winning it for the second time is different, said Harrington. There was the high of winning in Carnoustie, the way it happened, messing up the 18th, getting a second chance and taking that second chance. There was winning your first Major, the adrenaline rush and everything that I did with it, because you're only going to win your first Major once. So I made sure to enjoy it, celebrate it.  This time around it was a more satisfying win the way it happened, more confidence boosting. I was definitely walking away with a sense of satisfaction from it. I've always talked and espoused that Majors are all about getting in position when it comes to the back nine on Sunday. The first 63 holes are jockeying just so you have that chance so if you do play the nine holes, you're going to win The Open. I've talked about it, and it's nice to have proved that fact.  I think anybody who played my back nine on Sunday could have won The Open, whereas I went and did it, and that gives me tremendous confidence. I'm really chuffed that I put myself in position that I've always talked about and delivered. Harrington, as he did last year, warmed up for The Open by winning the Ladbrokes Irish PGA Championship in his magnificent month of July. Indeed, July was filled with memorable performances in Europe and around the world with the panel also commending the performances of Ross Fisher, winner of The European Open; Graeme McDowell, who followed his third place at The London Golf Club with victory in The Barclays Scottish Open at Loch Lomond the following week; Mikael Lundberg, winner of the Inteco Russian Open Golf Championship; Vijay Singh, winner of the World Golf Championships - Bridgestone Invitational; Jeev Milkha Singh, winner of the Nagashima Shigeo Invitational Sega Sammy Cup; and Eduardo Romero, who captured both the Dicks Sporting Goods Open and the US Senior Open. Derek Lawrenson, Golf Correspondent of the Daily Mail, said: In a month of outstanding performances, it needed something exceptional to win the award  and Padraig duly delivered. His successful defence of The Open Championship was undoubtedly the highlight of the month, and he is a worthy winner of The European Tour Golfer of the Month Award. The Golfer of the Month Award winners thus far in 2008 have been: Germanys Martin Kaymer (January), Mark Brown of New Zealand (February), McDowell of Northern Ireland (March), Trevor Immelman of South Africa (April), and Spaniards Sergio Garcia (May) and Pablo Larrazabal (June). At the end of the year, all monthly winners will be amongst the players considered by the panel for The European Tour Golfer of the Year.          
