 Welcome to an online chat session at Bank of America. Please hold while we connect you to the next available Bank of America Online Banking Specialist. Your chat may be monitored and recorded for quality purposes. Thank you for your patience.  Thank you for choosing Bank of America. You are now being connected to a Bank of America Online Banking Specialist. James: Hello! Thank you for being a valued Bank of America customer! My name is James.  James: How may I assist you with your personal accounts today?  You: I'm trying to add a new checking account to my online profile &amp;lt;no response for a few minutes&amp;gt;You: hello? James: I sincerely apologize,Ernest. James: We began online chat support recently, so the scope is limited only to personal accounts as of now.  James: I have a best alternative for you. To get quick assistance with your credit card, if you like I can get the contact phone number of our trained specialist. James: I recommend you to call our Credit Card services at 1.800.732.9194. We are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. You: It's not a problem with the credit card You: I'm trying to add my new checking account to my online profile James: I sincerely apologize for this. James: I will be able to assist you. James: sorry for the miscommunication, Ernest. &amp;lt;no response again for a few minutes&amp;gt;You: the account I am trying to add is XXXXXXXX James: Thank you very much for the information.  James: I am really sorry to inform you that I am unable to view any account ending in - XXXX.  James: In order to provide the best possible service, could you please provide the full account number of the checking account you are referring. You: that is the account number off the signature card James: Could you please confirm the account opening date of the checking account? You: 07/28/2008 James: Ernest, I see that the account was opened recently and unfortunately it is still not reflecting so could you please contact the online banking application number to know the status of the account. James: 1.888.383.7500. This is the number and we are available from 7 a.m.  10 p.m. James: Mon  Fri James: 8 a.m.  5 p.m. James: Sat and Sun James: ET You: ok, thank you for your time. James: That's very kind of you to say so. James: Thank you for understanding me. James: I really wish I could have been some help to you today. Ernest.James: Have a great day! Take care.____All of this is so I can get a $75 new account bonus for opening a checking account with Bank Of America.
