Totally Unenforceable. Even though its unreadable it looks like a standard Barclaycard Application Form which does not contain any of the prescribed terms.    Send them this    Thank you for your response to my request under the Consumer Credit Act section 78.    I am pleased to see that you confirm this as a true copy of the original agreement executed by yourselves on the XXXXX.    As you must realise this agreement does not conform to sections 60(1) and 61(1) of the Consumer credit Act and is therefore unenforceable under section 127(3) of the same act.     Also please note that the document that you have sent is largely illegible  I draw your attention to this:      Consumer Credit (Cancellation Notices and Copies of Documents)  Regulations 1983 (SI 1983/1557)    Quote:  2 Legibility of notices and copy documents and wording of prescribed Forms    (1) The lettering in every notice in a Form prescribed by these Regulations and in every copy of an executed agreement, security instrument or other document referred to in the Act and delivered or sent to a debtor, hirer or surety under any provision of the Act shall, apart from any signature, be easily legible and of a colour which is readily  distinguishable from the [background medium upon which the information is displayed].  (2) The wording of any Form prescribed by these Regulations shall be reproduced in copies of unexecuted or executed  agreements or in Notices of Cancellation Rights sent [by an appropriate method] under section 64(1)(b) or (2) of the Act  without any alteration or addition, except that--  (a) the creditor or owner may enter the name and address of the debtor or hirer in any Cancellation Form prescribed  by these Regulations; and  (b) every Form shall be completed in accordance with any footnote.  (3) Any such footnote shall not be treated as part of any Form prescribed by these Regulations and may be reproduced  in addition to any such Form.  (4) Where any such footnote requires any words to be omitted, those words shall be omitted or deleted.    You had until (date here) to provide me with the true legible copy I requested. After that date you entered into default of my request and I am therefore advising that the matter is now in dispute . Whilst the matter is in dispute, you are not permitted to ask for any payment, nor am I obliged to offer any payment to you. Furthermore, whilst the dispute remains, you are not entitled to charge any interest on the account, make any further charges to the account or pass the account to anybody else.     Please note you may also consider this letter a statutory notice under Section 10 of the Data Protection Act to cease processing any data in relation to this account with immediate effect. This means you must remove all information regarding this account from your own internal records and from my records with any credit reference agencies including any defaults. Should you refuse to comply, you must within 21 days provide me with a detailed breakdown of your reasoning behind continuing to process my data. It is not sufficient to simply state that you have a &amp;amp;#8216;legal right&amp;amp;#8217;, you must outline your reasoning in this matter and state upon which legislation this reasoning depends.    Should you fail to respond within 21 days, I will expect that this means you agree to remove all such data.
