Once again, this little editorial shows why America is in the can. The editors and the readers just don&amp;#039;t do their homework, or have a clue about business.  The AIG subsidiary in question is an insurance company, an insurance company that was not and is not in financial jeopardy. The holding company is in the tank.  Now, boys and girls, insurance companies sell products through independent agents WHO DO NOT WORK FOR THE COMPANY BUT ARE PAID A COMMISSION TO SOLICIT BUSINESS ON BEHALF OF THE INSURER, just like manufacturer&amp;#039;s reps, kapish so far? Indepedent agents are self employed or employed by other entities. Ever heard of an Insurance Agency? They are on every corner.  Now, we have a bailout situation, do we want to convince our independent agents to keep selling for our solvent company, thus mitigating the problem for the taxpayers, or do we want to tell our agents we are broke, take all the business somewhere else?  Naturally the Sentinel editor and reader will say, &amp;amp;quot;Hell no, tell them to sell MetLife, not AIG, we want the AIG solvent company to fail so we can do a bigger bailout.&amp;amp;quot; Such is the nature of editors and readers.  The people the goober letter writers want to &amp;amp;quot;fire&amp;amp;quot; don&amp;#039;t work for the company that entertained them. They are the clients of the company that entertained them. The company is trying to preserve a multi-billion dollar basic book of business.  The agents can&amp;#039;t be fired, readers. They don&amp;#039;t work there. The agents were the people on the trip. Get it? The press called them &amp;amp;quot;executives&amp;amp;quot;, they aren&amp;#039;t executives, executives are officers of AIG. These people are independent reps of AIG. Good Lord we have a problem with the public and press so monumental as to be unsolvable.  And this is representative of Sentinel stuff and has been for years. Mike Thomas is the only one with a cogent thought.  Good luck to us all. We sure as heck need it.(And I was not on the trip, these are life insurance people, an anathema to me.) I hope they had a good time and sell the heck out of AIG thus limiting my exposure to bailout. The Sentinel, being pro-government bailout group of goobers disagrees with me.  When, oh when, will the sentinel do some homework? Ever?
