 WESTPAC has joined its major rivals by lifting its standard variable mortgage rate by 14 basis points.The bank's standard variable rate home loan will rise to 9.61 per cent, effective from Thursday. The increase is independent of the Reserve Bank, which has kept official cash rates steady at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent for four consecutive months. Westpac said its rate rise reflected volatility in global funding markets, which continued to affect the bank's average cost of funds. Westpac's announcement follows similar rate hikes by its three major competitors since Friday. National Australia Bank said yesterday its variable home lending rate would rise to today by 15 basis points to 9.61 per cent. This followed Commonwealth Bank lifting its standard mortgage by 14 basis points and ANZ increasing its home loan rates by 15 basis points. Commonwealth's standard variable home loan rate rose from 9.44 per cent to 9.58 per cent from today for new and existing customers. ANZ's standard variable rate lending rate rose from 9.47 per cent to 9.62 per cent. St George Bank and BankWest also lifted their rates within the past week. Westpac, the nation's third largest bank, has now lifted its variable home loan rate six times this calendar year for a total 1.04 percentage point rise. Over the same period the RBA has raised its official cash rate twice for a total of 50 basis points. Westpac group executive for consumers financial services Peter Clare said the bank was aware of the effect the rate rise would have on household budgets. However, he said the bank had to cover the increased funding costs incurred since the global credit crisis started in July last year. 'While passing on some of the additional costs to customers, we are continuing to absorb a significant portion of the additional longer-term funding costs that we have experienced since the market volatility began almost 12 months ago,' Mr Clare said. 'We continue to be very thoughtful in our approach of balancing the needs of our customers with the needs of our shareholders.'  
