 THE dollar posted a fresh 25-year high overnight, breaking through $US0.9800 on the back of continuing US dollar weakness.The local currency hit a high of $US0.9849 just after midnight, after US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke said US financial markets and institutions were under 'considerable stress'' because the outlook for the US economy 'and thus credit quality, remains uncertain''. This was the Australian dollar's highest level since the unit touched $US0.9893 on January 17, 1983, which was during the days of a fixed exchange rate. At 7am (AEST), the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.9790/94, up from yesterday's close of $US0.9776/77. Overnight, the Australian dollar moved between a low of $US0.9774 and a high of $US0.9849.Dr Bernanke testimony before the US Congress last night painted a gloomier assessment of the US economy compared with a month ago, when he said the risks of a substantial downturn appeared to have 'diminished''. 'The possibility of higher energy prices, tighter credit conditions, and a still-deeper contraction in housing markets all represent significant downside risks to the outlook for growth,'' Dr Bernanke said before Congress last night (AEST).While Dr Bernanke also said the risk of higher inflation had 'intensified lately'', his comments were interpreted as a sign US interest rates were unlikely to be lifted anytime soon. Lehman Brothers FX strategist Steve Englander said a heavy bout of risk aversion at the start of the New York trading day caused investors to abandon the US dollar. 'There was US dollar weakness across the board,'' Mr Englander said from New York. 'As we started the day, there was a lot of pessimism in the air. 'This morning the best performing currencies were the risk averse currencies, yen and swiss and then aussie and kiwi, the two commodity currencies.'' Mr Englander said the market looked to the Australian dollar as an attractive investment, given high commodity prices. 'A lot of investors see commodities and commodity currencies at the moment as the safest store of value,'' Mr Englander said. 'We disagree in our view because given the slowing of the global economy, both the Aussie dollar and commodity prices are highly vulnerable.'' 'But for the moment, the trend has been in favour of commodity prices and Aussie has been benefitting from it.'' A fall in oil prices overnight helped the US dollar recover some of its earlier losses against the yen and euro, but the Australian dollar managed to remain close to $US0.9800. Crude oil for August delivery fell by as much as $$US9.00 during trade on the New York Mercantile Exchange, before settling down $US6.44 at $US138.74 a barrel. Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens speaks at a lunch in Sydney today, with his speech entitled 'Challenges for economic policy''.
