 TIGHTER financial conditions and record high petrol prices are tipped to slow domestic demand and prevent the Reserve Bank of Australia from raising interest rates again.The minutes of the RBA's July 1 board meeting, released yesterday, cited easing demand pressures and tightening financial conditions for its decision this month to keep official rates at a 12-year high of 7.25 per cent for the fourth consecutive month. 'On balance, while members remained concerned about the current rate of inflation and the uncertainties about the outlook, the increasing signs that demand was slowing suggested that the existing policy was exerting the appropriate degree of restraint,' the minutes said. Some hours after the RBA release yesterday, Australia's third biggest bank, Westpac, became the last major lender to lift its standard variable home loan rate. Westpac said higher funding costs were behind its move to lift the rate by 14 basis points to 9.61 per cent, independently of the RBA. 'While passing on some of the additional costs to customers, we are continuing to absorb a significant portion of the additional longer-term funding costs that we have experienced since the market volatility began almost 12 months ago,' Westpac group executive for consumer financial services Peter Clare said. RBC Capital Markets senior economist Su-Lin Ong said higher commercial bank lending rates would make the RBA less inclined to raise the official cash rate. 'They are happy the market is doing some of its work for them to assist in this slowdown,' she said. 'This makes us more confident that interest rates have peaked.' National Australia Bank lifted its lending rate on Monday, following similar moves this month by ANZ, Commonwealth Bank, St George, BankWest and Suncorp-Metway. Petrol prices, which surged past $1.70 a litre in most capital cities in July, were expected to curtail demand. The RBA minutes forecast that high fuel prices would add a quarter of a percentage point to headline inflation in the June and September quarters. The RBA expected the consumer price index for the June quarter to show a high number when the data was released on July 23. 'These high outcomes risked lifting inflationary expectations and/or wage demands,' the RBA minutes said. 'If that occurred, it would make inflation more difficult to reduce over time.' Headline inflation in the year to March grew by 4.2 per cent, which was well above the RBA's 2-3 per cent target. The RBA minutes forecast headline inflation to grow by 1 per cent in the June quarter. Westpac senior economist Andrew Hanlan said the RBA would be prepared to overlook high inflation if it was just the result of soaring petrol prices. 'Provided the boost to inflation is really just the first-round effect from higher petrol prices, then the Reserve Bank will look through that number,' he said. Deutsche Bank senior economist Phil O'Donaghoe said the RBA would keep its tightening bias because it was concerned about inflation expectations affecting wage and price settings. 'We have the bank telling us in these minutes that if wage demands and/or inflationary expectations become entrenched at these high levels, it's going to make that (downward) trajectory for inflation that much harder to secure,' he said. The RBA was concerned about the improved terms of trade (the ratio of export to import prices) renewing spending growth. 'This meant that there remained considerable uncertainty about the outlook for demand and inflation,' the RBA said, repeating sentiment expressed in recent board meeting minutes. Commonwealth Bank senior economist Michael Workman said that the RBA minutes were again centred on the opposing forces at work -- tighter financial conditions versus a resources bonanza. 'As a result, the RBA is clearly comfortable with the way the economy is slowing,' he said. 'But we suspect that the terms-of-trade boom could turn the trend around quite quickly.' AAP 
