 LONDON (Reuters) - The leading share index ended up almost 2 percent on Monday as energy companies rebounded after last weeks fall, while lower crude prices boosted travel and leisure companies. The FTSE 100  was 99.9 points, or 1.9 percent higher at 5,512.7 after falling 2.1 percent last week. The index is down 14.6 percent so far this year.Despite falling crude prices, heavyweight oil shares featured among leading gainers as traders said the sector had been oversold in recent sessions.BP , Shell , BG Group and Tullow Oil rose 3.7-4 percent. Deutsche Bank also raised the price target on both BP and Shell. U.S. crude retreated close to $140 a barrel, taking a pause from a record-breaking rally that has lifted prices by almost 50 percent this year. 'Theres not much red on the screens today as traders look to pick up some bargain stocks after the recent sell off, whilst falling oil prices are also lifting sentiment,' said Jimmy Yates, a dealer at CMC Markets. 'There are still a handful of notable losers out there and with some potentially fiery corporate dramas to be played out in the coming days its going to be difficult to escape the downside pressures even if theres an optimistic streak emerging.' The falling .....continued belowstartsends oil prices helped buoy First Group , Carnival , easyJet and British Airways 4-7.2 percent. The latter also benefited after rival Air France KLM reported a 2.6 percent rise in June passenger traffic.Retailer Carphone Warehouse tacked on 6.2 percent after Goldman Sachs rated Europes biggest independent mobile phone retailer a 'buy'. Among other retailers, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer remained weak, down 4.4 percent, as analysts continued to cut their forecasts and price targets after last weeks profit warnings and on fears Chairman Stuart Rose will face a rebellion at Wednesdays shareholder meeting.Supermarket group Sainsbury strengthened 3 percent after JPMorgan upgraded the food retailer to 'overweight' from 'neutral'. Banks were mixed, with HSBC , HBOS , Barclays and Standard Chartered up. But Royal Bank of Scotland shed 2.6 percent and mid-cap Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley slumped 16 percent to touch a new record low.On the macro front, investors will keep an eye on the Bank of Englands interest rate decision on Thursday, with most economists predicting the central bank will hold steady at 5.0 percent.Concerns over the health of the economy remain however, as official data showed industrial output fell much more than expected in May, raising the possibility that economic growth was near standstill in the second quarter. 'When looking at the UKs FTSE 100 index, one must remember that we are no longer looking at a purely UK index, with the majority of earnings coming from overseas and a number of FTSE 100 companies being domiciled away from the UK,' said David Scott, senior stockbroker at Redmayne-Bentley Stockbrokers in Leeds.LONDON (Reuters) - The leading share index ended up almost 2 percent on Monday as energy companies rebounded after last weeks fall, while lower crude prices boosted travel and leisure companies. The FTSE 100  was 99.9 points, or 1.9 percent higher at 5,512.7 after falling 2.1 percent last week. The index is down 14.6 percent so far this year.Despite falling crude prices, heavyweight oil shares featured among leading gainers as traders said the sector had been oversold in recent sessions.BP , Shell , BG Group and Tullow Oil rose 3.7-4 percent. Deutsche Bank also raised the price target on both BP and Shell. U.S. crude retreated close to $140 a barrel, taking a pause from a record-breaking rally that has lifted prices by almost 50 percent this year. 'Theres not much red on the screens today as traders look to pick up some bargain stocks after the recent sell off, whilst falling oil prices are also lifting sentiment,' said Jimmy Yates, a dealer at CMC Markets. 'There are still a handful of notable losers out there and with some potentially fiery corporate dramas to be played out in the coming days its going to be difficult to escape the downside pressures even if theres an optimistic streak emerging.' The falling oil prices helped buoy First Group , Carnival , easyJet and British Airways 4-7.2 percent. The latter also benefited after rival Air France KLM reported a 2.6 percent rise in June passenger traffic.Retailer Carphone Warehouse tacked on 6.2 percent after Goldman Sachs rated Europes biggest independent mobile phone retailer a 'buy'. Among other retailers, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer remained weak, down 4.4 percent, as analysts continued to cut their forecasts and price targets after last weeks profit warnings and on fears Chairman Stuart Rose will face a rebellion at Wednesdays shareholder meeting.Supermarket group Sainsbury strengthened 3 percent after JPMorgan upgraded the food retailer to 'overweight' from 'neutral'. Banks were mixed, with HSBC , HBOS , Barclays and Standard Chartered up. But Royal Bank of Scotland shed 2.6 percent and mid-cap Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley slumped 16 percent to touch a new record low.On the macro front, investors will keep an eye on the Bank of Englands interest rate decision on Thursday, with most economists predicting the central bank will hold steady at 5.0 percent.Concerns over the health of the economy remain however, as official data showed industrial output fell much more than expected in May, raising the possibility that economic growth was near standstill in the second quarter. 'When looking at the UKs FTSE 100 index, one must remember that we are no longer looking at a purely UK index, with the majority of earnings coming from overseas and a number of FTSE 100 companies being domiciled away from the UK,' said David Scott, senior stockbroker at Redmayne-Bentley Stockbrokers in Leeds. 'Whilst the UK market is at (around) 5,450 a number of sectors have fallen dramatically in the last year and I am particularly thinking of the banking, property and retailing sectors.' 'In the immediate short term the fortunes for the market will rest on oil and commodity prices -- if they were to tumble sharply, this could well push the market to the 5,000 level,' he added. Among midcaps, Persimmon slipped 3.4 percent ahead of a first half trading update due on Tuesday, and after the Daily Telegraph said the housebuilder would confirm that it has made 1,000 staff redundant.The housebuilding sector, whose shares have been battered by falling house prices and a weaker growth outlook, remained under pressure, with Taylor Wimpey , Redrow , Bovis Homes and Bellway all falling. (Additional reporting by Dominic Lau and Atul Prakash; Editing by David Cowell)
