 LONDON (Reuters) - Oil eased to near $144 a barrel on Monday as a U.S. plan to restore confidence in its financial sector shored up the dollar and financial markets, but worries about threats to supplies provided support.The U.S. government at the weekend unveiled an emergency plan to shore up embattled mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- which control $5 trillion in debt -- easing concerns about the wider economy and helping the dollar bounce off its near-record against the euro.U.S. light crude for August delivery was $1.35 down at $143.73 a barrel by 7:32 a.m. EDT. London Brent crude was $1.19 down at $143.30. 'Once again we are back into those phases where the economic news is going to lead it. The market has decided that supply is going to be tight,' said Simon Wardell of Global Insight.Gerard Burg, a commodities analyst from the National Australian Bank in Melbourne, said: 'Oil's fall this morning is generally due to gains in the U.S. dollar as well as some profit-taking in the market.' U.S. crude hit a record high of $147.27 last Friday, as concerns about threats to global oil supplies and a deteriorating U.S. economic landscape hit financial markets, driving investors to seek the relative safety of commodities.Oil initially fell by more than $2.50 on Monday, but pared those losses as Brazilian oil workers began a five-day strike, once again highlighting supply fears in a tight market.Traders were also on the watch for any news of supply disruptions from Nigeria, where militants abandoned a ceasefire, and from Iran amid tensions with Israel and the west. Oil prices have risen sevenfold since 2002 on surging demand from China and other emerging markets, and have jumped 50 percent this year alone, battering the economies of consumer nations already hit hard by the global credit crunch.Supply concerns again came to the fore as Brazilian oil workers at the national energy giant Petrobas began a planned five-day strike at the country's key fields in the Campos basin at midnight on Sunday.Campos accounts for more than 80 percent of Brazil's crude output of 1.8 million barrels per day. 'There are a lot more upside risks to prices in the short term, especially tension between Iran and Israel,' said Ryuichi Sato, an analyst at Mizuho Corporate Bank in Tokyo.Missile tests last week by Iran have left the oil markets worried about a potential supply disruption from the world's No. 4 exporter.In Nigeria, the main militant group in the oil-producing Niger Delta said last week it was abandoning a ceasefire to protest against a British offer to help tackle lawlessness.Oil shipments from the world's eighth biggest exporter have fallen by a fifth since 2006 due to violence in the Niger delta.(Additional reporting by Fayen Wong; Editing by James Jukwey)
