 LONDON (Reuters) - Britains top share index edged up by midday on Monday, recovering part of the previous sessions sharp losses, as near record oil prices boost energy stocks, though miners tracked weaker metal prices.By 11:33 a.m., the FTSE 100  was up 33.5 points at 5,446.3 after losing 1.2 percent on Friday. The benchmark index ended 2.1 percent down last week, marking its seventh straight week in retreat.The FTSE 100 has fallen 15.6 percent so far this year. 'Weve got a bit more of a shake out to do. We havent closed below the 20 percent sort of officially bear market level in the UK,' said Martin Slaney, head of derivatives at GFT Global Markets. 'We have traded below it -- its certainly an important milepost being reached and interesting to see if we do close below that level this week, which is around the 5,401 sort of level.' Oil shares were in demand as crude prices hovered near $143 a barrel. BP and Royal Dutch Shell both advanced 2.2 percent, and gas producer BG Group gained 2.7 percent.Miners, however, were the biggest drag on the index, with BHP Billiton , Xstrata, Rio Tinto , Vedanta Resources , Lonmin and Anglo American off between 0.3 and 3.3 percent.Carphone .....continued belowstartsends Warehouse topped the FTSE 100 gainers, up 5 percent after Goldman Sachs rated Europes biggest independent mobile phone retailer a 'buy'. Within the retail sector, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer continued its weakness, down 4.1 percent as analysts continued to cut their forecasts and price targets after last weeks profit warnings and on fears Chairman Stuart Rose will face a rebellion at Wednesdays shareholder meeting.Supermarket group Sainsbury strengthened 2.4 percent after JPMorgan upgraded the food retailer to 'overweight' from 'neutral'. However, Tesco fell 1.9 percent and Morrison Supermarkets slipped 0.3 percent.Banks were mixed, with HSBC , HBOS , Barclays and Standard Chartered up. But Royal Bank of Scotland shed 4.1 percent and mid-cap Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley slumped 13.5 percent to touch a new record low of 43 pence. British Airways bounced 2.8 percent after losing 5.7 percent on Friday and after rival Air France KLM reported a 2.6 percent rise in June passenger traffic.EasyJet , another rival, also reported a 19.5 percent increase in June passenger traffic. The budget airline was up 2.5 percent.Also on the upside, AMEC climbed 2.7 percent after Citi upgraded the engineer and project manager to 'buy' from 'hold'. 'I am enjoying the dead cat bounce and believing none of it,' said David Buik of Cantor Index. 'We havent had a piece of good news for three months.' 'We are eagerly awaiting figures from Alcoa and GE just to see, as two bellwether stocks from the United States, how bad things are,' Buik said, adding that investors also would keep an eye on the Bank of Englands interest rate decision on Thursday.LONDON (Reuters) - Britains top share index edged up by midday on Monday, recovering part of the previous sessions sharp losses, as near record oil prices boost energy stocks, though miners tracked weaker metal prices.By 11:33 a.m., the FTSE 100  was up 33.5 points at 5,446.3 after losing 1.2 percent on Friday. The benchmark index ended 2.1 percent down last week, marking its seventh straight week in retreat.The FTSE 100 has fallen 15.6 percent so far this year. 'Weve got a bit more of a shake out to do. We havent closed below the 20 percent sort of officially bear market level in the UK,' said Martin Slaney, head of derivatives at GFT Global Markets. 'We have traded below it -- its certainly an important milepost being reached and interesting to see if we do close below that level this week, which is around the 5,401 sort of level.' Oil shares were in demand as crude prices hovered near $143 a barrel. BP and Royal Dutch Shell both advanced 2.2 percent, and gas producer BG Group gained 2.7 percent.Miners, however, were the biggest drag on the index, with BHP Billiton , Xstrata, Rio Tinto , Vedanta Resources , Lonmin and Anglo American off between 0.3 and 3.3 percent.Carphone Warehouse topped the FTSE 100 gainers, up 5 percent after Goldman Sachs rated Europes biggest independent mobile phone retailer a 'buy'. Within the retail sector, Marks &amp;amp; Spencer continued its weakness, down 4.1 percent as analysts continued to cut their forecasts and price targets after last weeks profit warnings and on fears Chairman Stuart Rose will face a rebellion at Wednesdays shareholder meeting.Supermarket group Sainsbury strengthened 2.4 percent after JPMorgan upgraded the food retailer to 'overweight' from 'neutral'. However, Tesco fell 1.9 percent and Morrison Supermarkets slipped 0.3 percent.Banks were mixed, with HSBC , HBOS , Barclays and Standard Chartered up. But Royal Bank of Scotland shed 4.1 percent and mid-cap Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley slumped 13.5 percent to touch a new record low of 43 pence. British Airways bounced 2.8 percent after losing 5.7 percent on Friday and after rival Air France KLM reported a 2.6 percent rise in June passenger traffic.EasyJet , another rival, also reported a 19.5 percent increase in June passenger traffic. The budget airline was up 2.5 percent.Also on the upside, AMEC climbed 2.7 percent after Citi upgraded the engineer and project manager to 'buy' from 'hold'. 'I am enjoying the dead cat bounce and believing none of it,' said David Buik of Cantor Index. 'We havent had a piece of good news for three months.' 'We are eagerly awaiting figures from Alcoa and GE just to see, as two bellwether stocks from the United States, how bad things are,' Buik said, adding that investors also would keep an eye on the Bank of Englands interest rate decision on Thursday.Official data showed British industrial output fell much more than expected in May, raising the possibility that economic growth came to a near standstill in the second quarter.Mid-cap Persimmon lost nearly 4 percent after the Daily Telegraph said the house builder would confirm on Tuesday that it has made 1,000 staff redundant.The house building sector, whose shares have been battered by falling house price and weaker growth outlook, remained under pressure, with Taylor Wimpey , Redrow , Bovis Homes and Bellway off between 2.8 and 9.7 percent.
