 TOKYO, July 28 (Reuters) - The dollar rose to a one-month high above 108.00 yen on Monday, riding on the momentum gained from better-than-expected U.S. data on capital spending and home sales late last week that lifted some of the gloom over the economy. Hopes have risen for stability in the battered U.S. housing market after Congress passed a rescue package that was expected to soon be signed by President George W. Bush, sparking a rebound in the shares of U.S. banks and mortgage financing companies over the past two weeks. The package will set up a $300 billion fun to help hundreds of thousands of troubled homeowners and end the deepest housing slump since the Great Depression. [ID:nN26416076] The sharp retreat in oil prices from record highs has also given investors hope that the global economy can muddle through the U.S. economic downturn stemming from the ongoing slide in housing prices. Analysts are looking to two key U.S. economic reports later this week, including the monthly payrolls data on Friday, to see whether the dollar can build on its recovery from a record low struck against the euro earlier in the month. 'The dollar's recent fortunes have been dependent to a large degree on economic indicators, and a weak reading in U.S. payrolls could turn the tide against the dollar again,' said Masaki Fukui, senior market economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank. The dollar was little changed from late U.S. trade on Friday at 107.84 yen  after hitting 108.08 yen on trading platform EBS. Japanese exporters, who are seen to have orders lined up to sell the dollar above 108 yen, have also moved into focus. The euro edged up 0.1 percent against the dollar to $1.5710 . For the single currency, European corporate earnings due this week may provide some direction to the market, traders said. The recovery in stocks has taken a toll on the low-yielding yen as investors have favoured carry trades -- selling the yen to buy higher-yielding currencies and assets. The yen held near a record low against the euro near 170 yen. Japan's Nikkei share average  edged up 0.2 percent on Monday after having racked up its biggest one-week gain in five months last week, and other Asian equity markets were mostly higher on the day. PAYROLLS A TURNING POINT Before the jobs figures, second quarter U.S. GDP will be released on Thursday and will also test the dollar's resilience. The economy is forecast to have grown at an annualised pace of 2.0 percent, thanks in part to the stimulus from tax rebate checks sent to households. But the payrolls report is expected to show a loss of 75,000 jobs in July, what would be seventh straight month of decrease. 'Payrolls will be the next potential turning point for the dollar. Downbeat jobs results would offset any positive aspects of the previous day's second quarter U.S. GDP, which is likely show decent growth thanks to tax rebates,' said Tomoko Fujii, head of economics and strategy at Bank of America. 'But weak employment numbers may lead to talk that tax rebates were premature.' The Australian dollar dipped 0.2 percent to $0.9543 , sagging in response to news that Australia and New Zealand Banking Group , Australia's third-biggest lender, issued a profit warning on Monday. The group forecast more than $1 billion in bad debt charges as the global credit crisis starts to hurt Australia's previously buoyant banks. [ID:nSYD78205] On Friday, the country's largest lender, the National Australia Bank  said it was writing off $798 million in credit market-related losses. Keywords: MARKETS FOREX All data taken from Reuters calculated from the levels at 2130 GMT in the previous New York session. copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
