 MARK DAVIS POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT  THE Commonwealth Bank was forced to declare yesterday that it would waive home loan interest charges for all customers affected by the bushfires for three months, after complaints from a fire victim drew a rebuke for the bank from the Federal Government.  A Kinglake resident, Matt Falla, told ABC Radio yesterday that while he had not lost his home, he would struggle to meet his loan repayment obligations because the devastation wrought by the fires meant he was no longer able to earn an income as a self-employed carpenter.  Mr Falla said his local bank manager had offered to suspend his mortgage repayments for three months but interest would still be charged on the loan for that period.  The bank manager had also said interest would be charged at double the normal rate if Mr Falla and his wife went over the limit on the mortgage line of credit they had with the bank.  The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, said he was disturbed by reports that some banks were not responding appropriately to the hardship experienced by bushfire victims.  'The banking industry fully understands that the Government and the community expect banks to show the utmost compassion and flexibility when dealing with those who have been affected by these extraordinary natural disasters,' he said.  The Treasurer, Wayne Swan, spoke to the Commonwealth's chief executive, Ralph Norris, about the issue yesterday.  The bank's group executive of retail banking services, Ross McEwan, said he wanted to confirm its 'total support' for fire victims through an emergency assistance package available to all affected customers.  Mr McEwan said home loan repayments would be deferred for at least three months and interest would not accrue on loans during this period.  In other developments, the Federal Government announced it would provide short-term accommodation in Australian Defence Force bases for up to 2000 people and extend drought assistance for 12 months for farmers and businesses in fire-affected regions.
