According to recent audits, Stanford Bank International has deposits amounting to USD 8.5 billion, which means that up to 35 percent of the investments come from Venezuela  Related Articles  Economy  Amidst the massive fraud that the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) uncovered at Stanford Bank, the deposits of Venezuelan citizens and businesses in the branch of Stanford Bank International in Antigua are at risk.  Edgar Hernndez Behrens, the Superintendent of Banks and other Financial Institutions (Sudeban), said that the amount varies between USD 2.3 billion and USD 3 billion. But some analysts believe that it could exceed USD 5 billion.  Hernndez Behrens said that the figures are 'unofficial' and 'speculative' because until now, Sudeban does not have the balance sheet of the Venezuelan investors affected by the fraud.  According to recent audits, Stanford Bank International has deposits amounting to USD 8.5 billion, which means that up to 35 percent of the investments come from Venezuela.  The Superintendent of Banks did not rule out the possibility that there are deposits of Venezuelan investors in the Panamanian branch of Stanford Bank International which could also be affected, since Panama's banking authorities took over the local offices of the bank.  Early on Thursday, Finance Minister Al Rodrguez announced that the Venezuelan government decided to take control of Stanford Bank Venezuela, amidst the fraud charges facing the financial institution in the United States.  On Wednesday, however, Hernndez Behrens said that the situation of the local branch was normal, but Sudeban appointed several representatives to the board of the bank to monitor its operations in Venezuela.  The Central Bank of Venezuela was also involved in the monitoring activity. On Wednesday morning, there was a meeting between directors of the BCV, Sudeban and members of Stanford Bank Venezuela's board of directors to assess the situation of the bank and the possible measures to be implemented to preserve the financial health of the local branch.  Hernndez Behrens said that Sudeban will contact the National Securities Commission (CNV) to identify the possible financial connections of the Venezuelan branch of Stanford Bank.  Steps to follow  Jorge Faroh, a lawyer at Clyde &amp; Co., said that the assets of the Antigua branch are temporarily frozen until March 2, when a hearing will be conducted in the federal court in Dallas, as part of the SEC complaint, which was filed in the Texan city.  Faroh recommended the Venezuelans with deposits in the US bank to find a lawyer in Dallas and provide him/her the legal proof of the bank's deposit that should be filed in the court. Following these actions, the court would qualify the person as an investor of the bank.  Faroh added that if the freeze of assets is extended, the deposit insurance could be limited, which means that investors are less likely to recover all of their money.  
