OCEAN CITY -- Police arrested an Ocean City couple Tuesday in an eight-year fraud scheme through which they allegedly used the credit accounts of dead relatives to buy everything from vacations to furniture.  Ocean City pharmacist Joel Swartz, 65, and his wife, real estate agent Esther Swartz, 62, were arrested Tuesday following their indictment in the lengthy fraud scheme, which occurred between July 2000 and December 2008, according to a news release from the office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland and an indictment unsealed Tuesday.  The nine-count indictment stated the Swartzes used the credit accounts of two dead relatives -- named only as A.S. and M.S. -- to get credit extensions from banks and other financial institutions (including Bank of America and Citibank) that did not know the account holders had died. The Swartzes used credit cards and convenience checks that enabled them to buy things for themselves, including air travel, vacations, spa treatments and more than $13,000 in renovations for their two Ocean City homes, the indictment alleges.  The two allegedly fraudulently charged $3,600 in services at Visions Day Spa; more than $1,000 in airline tickets; and $2,000 in Florida hotel rooms.  The indictment also calls for the defendants to forfeit their two Ocean City properties, one in the 5600 block of the Boardwalk and the other in the 12100 block of Wight Street.  Esther Swartz, a realtor, handles high-end condo properties, according to her Web site, buyabeachplace.com. Federal authorities identified Joel Swartz as a pharmacist, but did not specify where he worked.  The Swartzes were expected to appear in federal District Court Tuesday afternoon. If convicted, they face a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison and a $1 million fine for conspiracy to commit bank fraud and bank fraud, in addition to 15 years in prison for access device fraud and a mandatory two years in prison consecutive to any other prison term for aggravated identity theft.  U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rubenstein credited the U.S. Postal Inspection Service and the Ocean City Police Department with investigative work in the case.  
