NORTHFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Digital Check, a leading provider of  for the  and branch automation industry, announced that Gary L. Nelson has been named to the board of directors of Digital Check.   With more than 30 years of senior and executive management experience in the domestic and international financial payments industry, Nelson brings extensive knowledge of successful startup companies in the technology sector and company acquisitions. Nelsons last software company made the prestigious INC 500 four years in a row and Principle Financials Top Ten Best Private Companies. He currently serves as chairman of the Nelson Family Foundation and co-founder, chief executive officer and president of his latest technology company, iThryv and WeProsper, designed to increase financial literacy among Americans ages five to 24. 'I am pleased to have Gary joining the Digital Check Board of Directors, said Tom Anderson, president of Digital Check. Gary brings broad market experience, channel knowledge and a professional presence in a time when both our reseller and bank partners and our industry are facing challenging times. About Digital Check   Digital Check is a leading manufacturer of distributed capture check scanners for branch automation and  applications. Digital Checks TellerScan family of check scanners provide the highest quality images, MICR accuracy, reliability, and lowest cost of ownership within the industry. It was the first company to introduce a desktop distributed capture device for the Check 21 industry, first to deploy at a teller window in a top 10 U.S. bank and the only U.S.-based manufacturer. The companys scanners are available worldwide through a network of more than 70 Authorized Solutions Providers and are supported by Digital Checks comprehensive fulfillment, training, support, warranty and repair services. For more information call 847-446-2285 or visit the companys website at www.digitalcheck.com. Digital CheckPaul Rupple, 847-446-2285 ext. 129orFor Digital Check  Media Contact  Cory Jones, 678-781-7203 
