By CASEY KNAUPP  Staff Writer  The former president of Tyler's Bank of America is scheduled to be sentenced in federal court this week for stealing money from a customer's account.  Brent Steven Lemons, 52, has remained out of jail on bond after he pleaded guilty in August to interstate transportation of stolen money and engaging in a transaction with criminally derived property. He faces up to 10 years in prison for each charge when he is sentenced at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday by U.S. District Judge Michael Schneider.  Although his 19-count indictment alleges Lemons stole more than $408,000 from his customers, a panel of arbitrators for the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) awarded Venna C. Davis Stubbs, a victim listed in the indictment, $4,259,436 in connection with her claims against Lemons.  Lemons was named president of Bank of America's Tyler market in September 2005 and was fired April 23, 2007. He also worked as a full service financial adviser for Banc of America Investment Services Inc. beginning in 2004. Before joining Bank of America, Lemons was an investment adviser for 22 years in A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc. and became manager of its Tyler offices in 1997. 'At the time of entrusting her money to Mr. Lemons, Venna (Stubbs) relied on Mr. Lemons like she would a family member or the most trusted of advisers,' said Bryan Forman, Mrs. Stubbs' attorney in the arbitration proceedings. 'Lemons knowingly breached that trust, lied to her and stole her money so that he could gamble and lead a lavish lifestyle. What he did to my client is truly dishonorable -- he should pay the award and he deserves to lose his freedom.' In federal court documents, Lemons acknowledged he withdrew $80,000 from the account of Mrs. Stubbs on two occasions and transferred it to the Boyd Corporation, the owner of Sam's Town Casinos in Shreveport, La.  Forman said Mrs. Stubbs alleged that Lemons stole almost all of her money out of her brokerage and bank accounts and frequently told the victim her money was safe and was being invested according to her wishes. The woman relied on Lemons during and after her divorce for financial and personal guidance, Forman said. Lemons sent most of Mrs. Stubbs' stolen money to casinos to cover about $1.4 million in gambling losses, he said.  Two additional victims, Tammy and Cindy Mays, of Tyler, were awarded $1.3 million in April by the FINRA for their claims against Lemons. They allege Lemons, their longtime friend and stockbroker, defrauded them of their family savings.  Forman said Lemons has been suspended from the brokerage industry by FINRA and is being sued by the U.S. Securities &amp; Exchange Commission.
