The 52-year-old former US Marine was poached from Bank of America, where he was chief financial officer, in February 1999. His appointment was a coup for the British bank, which had been rocked by the abrupt departure of chief executive Martin Taylor a few months earlier, while his three-year, 10m pay package was the envy of the City.   The first signs of trouble came when Mr O'Neill, who had been house-hunting in Hampstead, north London, delayed his start date by three weeks because of a severe bout of flu. After blacking out, tests revealed an arrhythmic heartbeat, a condition that can be worsened by stress.   After speaking with Sir Peter Middleton, Barclays' acting chief executive, the veteran banker flew to the UK, where Barclays' Harley Street doctors confirmed the findings, and the 'deeply disappointed' Mr O'Neill stood down.   It had been, he said, 'a dream appointment'. Mr O'Neill saw nothing of that bumper pay package, though the cost of a clutch of flights between San Francisco and London were reimbursed.   Barclays quickly got the search for a new chief executive under way again, eventually settling on Matthew Barrett, who took up the post in October 1999.   Sir Ian Prosser lasted just one week as deputy chairman and chairman-designate of J Sainsbury, the then struggling supermarket chain. Investors, who J Sainsbury admitted had not been consulted, did not believe the former executive chairman of Bass was right for such a high-profile retail position.   As their anger mounted, Sir Ian was left with no option but to stand down, noting at the time: 'I do not believe it is now in the best interests of J Sainbury for me to take up this appointment.' It was all over a mere week after the appointment was announced, before he even had a chance to put pen to paper and sign his contract. As a consequence, Sir Ian who would have been paid 350,000 a year as chairman did not receive any compensation. Not that it would have been an entirely new experience for him: two years earlier, in 2002, Sir Ian withdrew from the race to become chairman of Standard Chartered after shareholders, concerned about his record at Bass, voiced disquiet about his candidacy.   J Sainsbury pledged to consult shareholders in the future, and in July 2004, Philip Hampton (as he then was) was named chairman, taking over from Sir Peter Davis.   Sir Ian has since held a variety of directorships, including non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline and deputy chairman of BP. 
