NOVATO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Fireman's Fund Insurance Company will relocate its regional offices from Earth City to O'Fallon at One Progress Point Parkway, a newly constructed building in St. Charles County.   The company's 500 customer service and claims employees will move to the new facility, located off Highway 40 at Highway K, in the fourth quarter of 2009. 'We are very pleased to provide a high quality work environment for our outstanding team in St. Louis,' said Greg Tacchetti, chief administrative officer for Fireman's Fund(R). 'In addition to providing on-site food service and an exercise facility, our new site also delivers sustainable practices benefits through shorter commutes and LEED certification.' The building is in the process of being certified LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), which means that it meets stringent standards for sustainability and environmental responsibility.   Fireman's Fund has built a solid presence in the St. Louis area for more than 40 years. Its legacy includes serving as the insurer of the Spirit of St. Louis aircraft piloted by Charles Lindbergh in the first transatlantic flight.   The St. Louis area serves as the company's headquarters for its catastrophe (CAT) and claims service center as well as its customer service center. The CAT team is specially trained to monitor and respond immediately to disasters affecting the company's policyholders anywhere in the country, such as the recent hurricanes affecting the Gulf Coast.   As part of the company's philanthropic mission, the Heritage ProgramSM, Fireman's Fund has donated over $21 million dollars to fire departments nationally. This includes 34 grants totaling $718,036 to St. Louis area fire departments. Fireman's Fund was founded in 1863 with a social mission to contribute a portion of its profits to support firefighters.   About Fireman's Fund(R)   Fireman's Fund Insurance Company is a premier property and casualty insurance company providing personal and commercial insurance products nationwide. It is rated 'AA' by Standard &amp; Poor's Rating Services. Fireman's Fund is a member of the Allianz Group (NYSE: AZ), one of the world's largest providers of insurance and financial services. For additional information, visit www.firemansfund.com  (C) 2009 Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, Novato, CA 94998       Source: Fireman's Fund Insurance Company 
