South Florida Business Journal - by Brian Bandell  Mark Freerks  Lydian Private Bank earned $677,000 in the fourth quarter, but still had a loss for 2008.  Related News  Preliminary financial reports released for three thrift banks that play major roles in South Florida told very different stories about the institutions and their level of stability.  Palm Beach-based Lydian Private Bank, the largest bank by assets based in Palm Beach County and the ninth-largest based in South Florida, earned $677,000 in the fourth quarter, according to its filing with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). That a marked improvement from its $13.3 million loss in the third quarter.  However, Lydian still lost nearly $12.5 million in 2008, down from income of $1.5 million in 2007.  Like most of 2008, the fourth quarter was a challenging time for our industry, Lydian Chairman and CEO Rory Brown said. We are very satisfied to demonstrate profitability during this period. Our business model continues to position us well for success in the Florida market, and we are poised to take advantage of unique opportunities in 2009.  This article is for Paid Print Subscribers ONLY.  If you are already a South Florida Business Journal subscriber please create or sign into your bizjournals.com account to link your valid print subscription and have access to the complete article.  Become a Print Subscriber  For immediate access to this article, as well as the most recent edition of South Florida Business Journal online, become a print subscriber.  Already have an Account  Email Address: Password:  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  SEC, Madoff reach partial settlement  [Austin]  Fannie, Freddie suspend foreclosure sales  [Buffalo]  Schwarzenegger says no to new budget negotiations  [Sacramento]  Bank of America makes $402M payment to feds  [San Francisco]  Treasury ups Fannie/Freddie bailout funds to $400 billion  [San Antonio]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - South Florida  South Florida Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 63,000 SF  Use Type: Lease  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Sr Major Account Executive - XO Communications  Audit Manager  OB/GYN opening in New Port Richey, Florida  Fellowship  Physical Therapist  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  South Florida Business Directory  Florida Articles Miami Articles Advertising Miami Business Services Miami Career Miami Cars Miami Education Miami Financial Services Miami Health Miami Home Services Miami Insurance Miami Internet Miami Legal Miami Real Estate Miami Software Miami Telecommunications Miami Travel Miami  
