ONE of the most high-powered Indonesian delegations to visit Australia will set down in Sydney later this month for Kevin Rudd's 2020-style summit, designed to build stronger ties between the countries.  In a sign that the often fraught relationship is improving, Indonesian leaders in politics, business, religion and academia will discuss common challenges with Australian counterparts.  Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda will be among 70 Indonesians at the summit.  The talks will tackle issues such as climate change, democratic governance and building stronger links between the countries.  The summit, devised by Mr Rudd and Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, will open on February 19 with a speech by Mr Rudd that will also mark the 20th anniversary of the Australia-Indonesia Institute.  Senior Australian politicians will then join executives from major companies, including BHP Billiton, Santos and the Commonwealth Bank, for two days of talks with the delegation from Indonesia.  Representatives from environmental groups and the aid sector in each country will also take part.  Centred on a 'partners in a new era' theme, the talks are seen as a chance to move beyond the sometimes tense relationship over issues such as boat people and East Timor.  Allan Gyngell, the executive director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy, which will co-host the summit, said: 'The old days of a centralised relationship focusing on the presidential palace in Jakarta are over  you have to reach out geographically across Indonesia and more broadly across the community.'  Indonesia is the most heavily populated country in South-East Asia, with almost 240 million people, and has the world's largest Muslim majority.  Mr Gyngell said relations between the two governments had greatly improved but more could be done to forge close ties with the citizens.  'There is more potential in the Australia-Indonesia relationship than in any of our other major relationships at present,' he said. 'More can be done once we understand the opportunities, and that's because Australians simply have not factored into their thinking about Indonesia yet the impact of democratisation and reform. Continued...  
