Correction at bottom of article  Halleland Lewis Nilan &amp; Johnson, a 120-employee law firm, has finalized a lease to move and expand its headquarters in downtown Minneapolis.  The firm signed the deal last week to lease 78,000 square feet at One Financial Plaza, 120 S. Sixth St. The landlord, Dallas-based Behringer Harvard, is expected to sign the lease within days.  Halleland is relocating from about 55,000 square feet on floors six through eight in the south tower of the U.S. Bank Plaza at 220 S. Sixth St. Its lease in that space expires in November.  The new 10-year lease is for a portion of the 140,0000-square-foot block of space formerly occupied by New York-based accounting firm Deloitte, which moved to the Fifty South Sixth building late last year. Hallelands deal comes at a time when most companies are sitting still, reluctant to make deals.  Brian Johnson, managing partner at the 13-year-old law firm, said the move was designed as a cost-effective way to accommodate its growth. The firm had agreed to the lease deal last spring, before the economic crisis hit, and it turned out to be fortunate. Were doing something a lot different than most law firms our size. Were not going to the top of some huge high-profile building. Were going to a very nice, but reasonably priced space that will help us get through these economic times that were in. Johnson added that the third and fourth floors of One Financial should draw on the vibrancy of the street level. It also has large floors, giving the company room for showers and locker rooms for workers who bike to work or run during lunch. It also has enough space for a large meeting room.  Halleland has been growing by about five attorneys per year. Some of its practice areas, including product liability, employment and labor, and health care, are going gangbusters, Johnson said. Im feeling pretty confident about our business and about the law practice moving forward. Kim Ess, chief operating officer, said the firm will apply to have the space certified as a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design project. Some features will include energy-efficient lighting and use of recycled and locally-sourced construction materials.  No general contractor has been selected to build out the new space. Sara Rothholz Weiner at Minneapolis architecture firm Cuningham Group designed the space.  Tad Jellison, a broker at Jones Lang LaSalle in Minneapolis, represented Halleland in the lease deal and site search. Chuck Howard, a broker for Equity Transwestern in Minneapolis, represented Behringer Harvard.  Brian Woolsey, a broker at Colliers Turley Martin Tucker in Minneapolis, said this move, although lateral in terms of quality, is good for the overall downtown real estate market if for no other reason than it absorbs slightly more space.  Location: Minneapolis Managing partner: Brian Johnson Total staff and attorneys: 120 Founded: 1995 Web: halleland.com sblack@bizjournals.com   (612) 288-2103 Correction:Minneapolis-based law firm Halleland Lewis was represented in its recent lease at 120 South Sixth St. by real estate broker Tad Jellison, in the Minneapolis office of Jones Lang LaSalle. The original version of the story misidentified the broker.
