St. Louis Business Journal  Related News  The Securities and Exchange Commission and suspected Ponzi schemer Bernard Madoff reached a partial settlement in the civil fraud case against Madoff that could lead to fines and restitution at a later time.  The partial settlement stipulates that Madoff, who is accused of bilking investors of $50 billion as part of the largest Ponzi scheme ever perpetrated, cannot contest the civil fraud allegations against him. The agreement still has to be approved by the judge overseeing the case.  The settlement does not affect the criminal case against Madoff, who hasnt been indicted yet. Madoff is expected to enter into a plea bargain deal with prosecutors once indictments are handed down.  Seven investors with St. Louis ties appear on a list of several thousand clients of Madoff. Hammond Associates in Clayton is also on the list but said it only received performance data from Madoff.  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  Bank of America sells planes, helicopter  [Raleigh/Durham]  Cincinnati Financial out as 5/3 investor  [Columbus]  Wells Fargo to pay $371.5M dividend to U.S. Treasury  [Raleigh/Durham]  Wells Fargo to pay $372M dividend to feds  [Sacramento]  Madoff investors made public  [San Jose]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - St. Louis  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Medical Transcription - Transam Associates, Inc.  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  St Louis Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 7,034 SF  Use Type: Sale  St. Louis Business Directory  Missouri Articles St.Louis Articles Advertising St.Louis Business Services St.Louis Career St.Louis Cars St.Louis Education St.Louis Financial Services St.Louis Health St.Louis Home Services St.Louis Insurance St.Louis Internet St.Louis Legal St.Louis Real Estate St.Louis Software St.Louis Telecommunications St.Louis Travel St.Louis  
