THE Commonwealth Bank has reversed a move to charge interest on the suspended home loan repayments of bushfire victims after Wayne Swan raised the issue with the bank's chief executive, Ralph Norris.  A day after CBA announced a $2.6 billion half-year profit, helped by a federal government guarantee of its wholesale debt, some of the bank's customers in the most fire-ravaged parts of Victoria said they had been told that they could suspend repayments but interest would still build.   Alaina McKee, a mother of three who fled the Kinglake fire, said she had gone to CBA's branch in Whittlesea to say that she had a $128,000 mortgage on a place that was no longer there. 'They said to me: 'You're $41,000 ahead on the loan, so the interest will just come off that',' she said. 'I said: 'But that's still money I'm losing. I can't afford to lose more.'' Ms McKee's claim, and some others like it, caused a furore, as the bank rushed out a press statement in which retail banking boss Ross McEwan confirmed the lender's 'total support' for bushfire victims.   Earlier, Kevin Rudd told parliament the Treasurer had raised the matter with the bank. 'The Treasurer has today spoken with the CEO of the relevant bank to ensure that the bank is treating its customers appropriately and they fully understand the expectations of the Government and of the community,' the Prime Minister said. 'The banking industry fully understands that the Government and the community expects that banks show the utmost compassion and flexibility when dealing with those who have been affected by the extraordinary natural disasters.' Ms McKee, whose home insurance is with the CBA unit CommInsure, said the bank's position had changed yesterday. This had 'delighted' her, as she now intended to rent a four-bedroom house at Mernda, for $380 a week, while her home was rebuilt. 'The funny thing is they were great,' she said. 'They said they were going to waive the (insurance) excess, and they're going to pay the rent until we rebuild. They're going to cover demolition costs and everything. 'So I reckon making a bit of noise made a difference.' Mr McEwan, who was yesterday visiting some of the fire areas, said CBA had an emergency assistance package available for all its customers affected by the blazes.   One feature of the package, he said, was a minimum three-month period where no interest would accrue, after which the bank would consult with the individual customer.   He strongly defended CBA staff, saying they were 'emotionally distraught by the disaster but dealing with the situation magnificently'. 'We are not charging interest on loans to people who have lost their homes,' Mr McEwan said. 'But we do need these people to come and chat to us; some of them will need assistance for more than three months. Every situation is different.' A CBA spokesman, referring to the conversation between Mr Swan and Mr Norris, said the bank's emergency assistance package had been explained to the Treasurer, along with the bank's 'sympathetic' approach to bushfire victims. 'This was accepted by the Treasurer, and we are doing all we can to help the victims of this disaster,' he said. 'It's unfortunate that some customers inadvertently got the wrong message.' The major banks' community service obligations have been under close scrutiny as the Government stands behind the banks in the  by guaranteeing the funds they raise in global markets for lending to customers.   While the Government gets a fee of 70 basis points of the amount raised, the banks would struggle to access frozen debt markets and get the funds they need without the guarantee.   The Big Four banks, as a result, have been under intense political pressure to pass on interest rate cuts in full, and now there is heightened scrutiny of their bushfire disaster responses.
