On Feb. 6, Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels announced new investment and job creation by Indiana firm StreetLinks, perfectly timed to counter Washington announcements that national unemployment is now up to 7.6 percent. Yet again, the former Bush White House budget czar demonstrates savvy political timing.  In considering the state economy in recession, regional issues are of growing importance. For instance, the new Great Lakes Compact to regulate water withdrawals bears directly on economic as well as environmental management. Sufficient clean water supplies are essential to productive as well as healthy lifestyles.  Within the region, there are very strong parallels between Northwest Indiana and southeast Wisconsin. Both areas have experienced great economic challenges, reflecting dramatic automation as well as globalization in auto manufacturing/ assembling and steel industries.  Gary was literally created by the U.S. Steel Corp. in 1905. Kenosha, Wis., grew dramatically before and immediately after World War II thanks to heavy auto investment, especially by American Motors and Chrysler.  Both are integrally tied to the Chicago metropolitan area. The Times of Northwest Indiana, for example, has remained relatively strong in a very turbulent newspaper market in part through marketing in the South Suburbs of Chicago as well as Indiana.  While manufacturing change has created very real hardship for affected populations, there are great and growing regional strategic advantages in transportation. Chicago is the fifth-largest container port in the world. The others are all major Pacific ports located in Asia: Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tianjin China, plus Singapore.  Chicago does have indirect Atlantic access through the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway, but the great bulk of container traffic moves through the Chicago metro area via rail and truck. More than half the entire interstate truck traffic of the United States travels along the I-80/94 and I-294 arteries. While the current recession has slowed the tempo, the volume remains enormous.  In early 2007, Paul O'Connor, executive director of World Business Chicago, was the featured keynote speaker at the Kenosha County Economic Summit, organized by the Clausen Center for World Business of Carthage College. In a presentation rich in hard data about our region's evolution, the point was made the nearly 20 percent of truck maintenance jobs in the immediate nexus of Interstates 80/94 and 294 were vacant.  The expansion of commuter as well as freight rail was also highlighted in terms of job opportunities. Both Indiana and Wisconsin have initiatives to develop new passenger rail routes. While some computer and related technical facility is required for most maintenance and transport jobs, a college degree is not.  Finally, a regional approach is encouraged by the fiscal crises afflicting nearly all states. California's enormous $42 billion deficit has drawn special media attention, but that is only the most dramatic of a number of examples. Along with the current recession, important federal factors include laws restricting state capacity to collect taxes, federal tax cuts which have also reduced state revenues, and the growing Washington trend of imposing expensive mandates with no offsetting grant or other income.  With a few exceptions, such as the Tennessee Valley Authority, the United States lacks effective regional cooperation. The TVA was a New Deal innovation. With politicians constantly comparing the current recession to the Great Depression, and a new Democratic administration in Washington, this is precisely the time to take some risks of a regional government variety.   Arthur Cyr is Director of the Clausen Center for World Business and Dylan Tate is a student at Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The center devotes sustained attention to regional development concerns. Tom Clausen is a Carthage graduate and trustee who led both Bank of America and the World Bank. The opinion expressed in this column is the writer's and not necessarily that of The Times.
