The projects authors need approval from two-thirds, or nine of 13 commissioners, to pass. Failure would be widely seen as a major setback for the team, although the hurdle of financing will still be left even if teams get the approvals.  A county memorandum about the stadium agreements, issued Thursday evening, says up to $55 million in general obligation bonds could be used, which was previously dedicated to renovation of the Orange Bowl. Up to $81 million in bonds could be backed by the convention development tax and up to $245 million would be backed by tourism development taxes and professional sports franchises facilities taxes.  Another $39 million would be backed by non-property tax revenue.  The county said its bond counsel has issued an opinion that litigation opposing the stadium plan has no merit.  County Manager George Burgess said he recently met with Citigroup, Bank of America, J.P. Morgan and Goldman Sachs and was told they were all interested in doing business with the team for its portion of the stadium funding. 'They indicated that there is an appetite in the marketplace for these types of financings, and that they could secure the team portion of the financing even in today's market,' he wrote. Terrence OGrady, senior vice president of municipal trading for FMS Bonds, said recently that the market for issues has improved and rates were near 6 percent, down from 7.5 to 8 percent in December. 'It seems like municipal bonds have now started to right themselves and their timing might be good if they start toward the end of the year,' he said. Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos A. Alvarez and county commissioners announced they will hold a press conference after the vote. The county's special meeting starts at 1 p.m. while the city will start its meeting at 9 a.m.  A county press release said representatives of the 'Miami Marlins' will be in attendance. The team would change its name from Florida Marlins to Miami Marlins as part of its commitment to the project.  The five documents include: the operating agreement, the non-relocation agreement, the assurance agreement, the city parking agreement, and the construction and administration agreement.  The final contracts contain a commitment from the Marlins owners that they will cover cost overruns on stadium construction and infrastructure upgrades.  City and county officials have been working with the Marlins owners for the last year on the agreements that would allow a 37,000-seat stadium to be built on the former site of the Orange Bowl. Government officials and the team want to break ground by July or August, and hope to finish by April 2012. The countys portion of the funding is $347 million. The team will fork over $155 million and the city will cover $13 million. If any of the parties are unable to obtain financing, they can pull out of the deal.  Additionally, the city and the county will split the estimated $22 million needed to pay for infrastructure upgrades. The city also would be responsible for providing a minimum of 5,500 parking spaces in a yet-to-be-built parking garage facility and parking lots.  The deal calls for the team to be named the Miami Marlins and includes a non-relocation agreement during the 35-year lease on the stadium. If the team relocates, it would have to repay the government for all costs associated with the development of the project.  If the more than 50 percent of the team is sold, the teams owners would have to share a percentage of that profit with local government.  In his state of the county address at the Fillmore Miami Beach at the Jackie Gleason Theater Tuesday, County Mayor Carlos Alvarez characterized the baseball stadium as a stimulus project that would create 2,000 badly needed jobs.  Opponents focused on the fact that the majority of the project was being paid for with tourist dollars that they said could be better spent elsewhere.
