Charlotte Business Journal  Related News  Wachovia Corp., which was recently acquired by Wells Fargo &amp; Co., has once again received the top ranking among U.S. banks in the American Customer Satisfaction Index.  The ACSI report, produced by the University of Michigan, calculates scores for banks every fourth quarter. It measures customer satisfaction with checking, savings and consumer loans.  On a 100-point scale, banks overall fell to a score of 75 from 78 in 2007 as they cut costs across services in order to offset large financial losses from the subprime mortgage crisis.  Although Wachovia led the banks for customer service in the last eight years, its score fell to 76 from 79 in 2007. The bank scored 79 in 2005 and 80 in 2006.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo climbed to a score of 72 from 69 in 2007.  Charlotte-based Bank of America Corp. (NYSE:BAC) improved its score to 73 from 72 in 2007.  Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C) came in last with a score of 69, the same number it had in 2007.  The overall ACSI score for a given quarter factors in scores from 200 companies in 44 industries and from local and federal government services.  Reader Comments  Need Assistance? More Latest News  Related Industry News  GM bankruptcy would mean changes  [Buffalo]  Chase, Citi suspend home foreclosures  [Greensboro/Winston-Salem]  Chase, Citi suspend home foreclosures  [Wichita]  Two big banks suspend home foreclosures  [Albuquerque]  Fannie, Freddie to suspend foreclosure sales  [Cincinnati]  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  City Guide Spotlight - Charlotte  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  General Manager II - XO Communications  Associate / Senior Associate, Private Equity - Successful Private Equity Firm  Controller  MIS Junior Manager  General/Cosmetic Dermatologist  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  South Florida Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Building Size: 31,650 SF  Use Type: Lease  South Florida Business Directory  Florida Articles Miami Articles Advertising Miami Business Services Miami Career Miami Cars Miami Education Miami Financial Services Miami Health Miami Home Services Miami Insurance Miami Internet Miami Legal Miami Real Estate Miami Software Miami Telecommunications Miami Travel Miami  
