A firefighting helicopter comes in for refuelling at the Upper Yarra staging ground in Wesburn. Picture: STEVE TANNER  10.05pm Monday: FIRES burning in the Yarra Valley around Healesville, Yarra Glen and Chum Creek are posing new threats to home owners tonight.  A new CFA urgent threat warning was issued at 9.15pm for residents in the vicinity of Dowd Road, Romeo Road, Anderson Road, Gibbs Road and Juliet Avenue in Healesville, who may be directly impacted upon by heavy ember attack.  At 9:45pm tonight, the CFA re-issued an urgent threat warning to residents in Toolangi - the fire is burning in a northerly town towards the town from the south east and residents need to be on alert in case of localised changes in conditions.  For the full alert, click here.Other Yarra Valley communities are urged to remain on alert, as fires continue to burn.  Residents should listen to 774 AM ABC Melbourne radio for further updates.  You can also call the Victorian Bushfire Information Line on 1800 240 667.  Callers who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech / communication impairment may call textphone/ telewriter (TTY) on 1800 122 969.  7.15pm Monday FIRES burning in the Toolangi and Chum Creek areas were still causing concern for Yarra Valley residents this evening.  The CFA has issued a fresh urgent threat warning for Toolangi.  The alert, issued at 7pm, advises residents in Toolangi that they may be directly impacted by a fire burning in being pushed towards the community from the south-east.  EARLIER MONDAY: Shifting winds are also prompting some Healesville residents to begin preparing for evacuation, as smoke from several fires drifts over the township.  Gallery: Images from the scene  Full coverage: Kinglake and area bushfires  Full coverage: Yarra Valley fires  Herald Sun coverage: Victoria bushfires  Tourists are also being warned to avoid these areas.  Maroondah Parade resident Jim Howie said he was concerned about his daughter, Catherine, who had returned to her house in Toolangi.  ''She stayed down here last night, but went back there to get some things. Mr Howie said.  ''She is in the house, but Im sure shell be alright.  Mr Howie had himself evacuated on Saturday night as strong winds pushed the fire towards his house.  ''It was shooting up 100 feet above the trees and then the wind changed and all the people in Chum Creek got it.  ''Ive lived here for 40 years and I have never seen anything like it, he said.  At Healesville Memorial Hall, scores of residents who had lost houses or been forced to evacuate were gathered, with volunteers providing food and Centrelink and Department of Human Services staff assisting residents with emergency relief grants.  Fires are still continuing to affect residents in Chum Creek and the Myers Creek Rd area, with a number attempting to flee and road blocks remaining in place on several roads.  While there is smoke drifting across Upper Yarra communities, calmer conditions have reduced the fire risk.  HEALESVILLE, Chum Creek, Steels Creek, Dixons Creek and Yarra Glen residents are alert again as fire continues to actively burn in the Yarra Valley Area.  The CFA is advising residents remain vigilant, be aware of any changing conditions and to listen to ABC radio for updates.  VicRoads has advised that the Eltham-Yarra Glen Rd at Yarra Glen and Macintyre Lane at Melba Highway are closed.  For road closure updates go to http://www.vicroads.vic.gov.au/Home/NewsRoom/BushFiresRoadClosures/  Critical Information  Anyone affected by the bushfires can get information from dhs.gov.vic.au, or the Victorian Bushfire Information Line on 1800 240 667.  Smoke in Upper Yarra Valley, 1.30pm Monday  Awareness Message : A fire continues to burn in the Bunyip State Forest and residents in the Upper Yarra Valley area may be experiencing smoke and embers from this fire.  This fire does not pose a threat to any of the communities in the Upper Yarra area.  Road users are advised to take extra care as road travel may be hazardous due to low visibility from smoke.  Even though this fire does not currently pose a threat, people in high risk bushfire areas are reminded to have a bushfire survival plan ready to implement during the summer period.  Continue to listen to ABC or local radio for updates on this fire.  Additional Information  For information on fires in Victoria and general fire safety advice, please contact the Victorian Bushfire Information Line (VBIL) on freecall 1800 240 667. Callers who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech / communication impairment may call textphone/ telewriter (TTY) on 1800 122 969. Information is also available at http://www.dse.vic.gov.au/fires  There are several ways to help the victims of the bushfires.  To donate to the Red Cross State Government Victorian Bushfire Appeal Fund:  Visit redcross.org.au;  Phone 1800 811 700;  Go to any NAB, ANZ, Westpac or Commonwealth Bank branch;  Go to any Bunnings store;  Make a direct deposit to the Victorian Bushfire Relief Fund  BSB 082-001, Account number 860-046-797.  Another appeal set up is the Myer Bushfire Appeal. All proceeds will go to the Salvation Army. Donate at any Victorian Myer store.  
