 26/02/2009 9:11:00 AM  THEIR corporate colour is red but Tamworths Westpac Bank branch is taking steps to go green.  Last week the branch took possession of a brand new, red, Toyota Prius Hybrid as part of Westpacs continuing endeavours to become more energy efficient.  Westpac Tamworth branch manager Lorna Chalmers had nothing but praise for the vehicle  the car of choice for many energy conscious Hollywood A-listers.  Westpac-branded Beetles are being replaced by the Toyota Prius which uses hybrid petrol/  electronic technology, Mrs Chalmers said.  Westpac undertook a comprehensive evaluation of a broad range of options for its fleet, taking into account the wide variety of needs for employees working in diverse locations, and the Prius met both Westpacs business and environmental goals.  Mrs Chalmers said despite some of the  differences between the Prius and other cars, it was very easy to use.  Its wonderful. I havent had any  problems, she said.  The only real difference is when I stop at the lights I cant hear the car idling. Its so quiet.  The Prius consumes about 106 grams of fuel per kilometre.  Mrs Chalmers said Westpac had been taking steps to go green for some time.  There is a Westpac building being built in New Zealand which, when complete, will have a five-star energy rating.  They are very conscious of the environment and ways to become more energy efficient.  This initiative is just one of many that Westpac has undertaken to ensure we are meeting our corporate responsibility to help our environment, she said.  Mrs Chalmers said there had been a lot of jokes about where to plug the car in, but she was quick to dispel any myths about finding a power point.  No, you dont have to plug it in to charge up, she laughed.  The Hybrid works by transferring part of the power produced by the petrol engine to drive the wheels, and the rest to an in-built generator which can provide power for the electric motors or be used to recharge the battery.  Other regional Westpac Bank branches, including Inverell, are also expected to take ownership of a new Prius.  It is estimated Westpacs transition to the smaller hybrid vehicles in Australia and New Zealand could see emissions reduced by over 1000 tonnes.
