Minneapolis / St. Paul Business Journal - by Katharine Grayson Staff Writer  Related News  U.S. Bancorp managers have been asked to reduce the size of their budgets by 5 percent.  The Minneapolis-based bank is making the move to prepare for economic pressures that it will face this year. The company crafts a five-percent contingency plan annually and this year decided to move forward with cuts, U.S. Bank spokesman Steve Dale said. Some cuts have already been identified, including reducing off-site travel for employees. Layoffs will be considered as a 'last resort,' he said.  The cuts are not in response to U.S. Bancorps (NYSE: USB) performance in 2008, Dale said. U.S. Bank was profitable last year, unlike many banks its size nationwide.  However, the companys loan portfolio is tied to some industries that will likely suffer in 2009.  kgrayson@bizjournals.com   (612) 288-2106  Reader Comments  Contact the Editor Need Assistance? More Latest News  Latest News  Most Viewed Stories  Most Emailed Stories  Business Pulse Survey  City Guide Spotlight - Mpls./St. Paul  Sponsored by:  Extra  Best places to start a business  10 best metros for small businesses  Twin Cities Real Estate  powered by LoopNet  Price: $2,500,000  Building Size: 21,000 SF  Use Type: Sale  Search Press Releases  Search by Company, Organization, or Keyword  Content provided by PR Newswire. Learn more about this service.  Search for Jobs  powered by onTargetJobs  Successful profiles, funding news and advice related to small business  Sponsored by Hoovers  Research companies and get powerful sales tools to help you succeed  Stay up to date on the latest news from within the commercial real estate industry  News, analysis and ideas that defy the odds and the times  Email Alerts  Get the latest local business news delivered to your inbox. Sign up Today!  powered by onTargetjobs  Search Jobs   Post Resume   View More  Post a Job   Feature a Job  Mpls./St. Paul Business Directory  Minnesota Articles Minneapolis Articles Advertising Minneapolis Business Services Minneapolis Career Minneapolis Cars Minneapolis Education Minneapolis Financial Services Minneapolis Health Minneapolis Home Services Minneapolis Insurance Minneapolis Internet Minneapolis Legal Minneapolis Real Estate Minneapolis Software Minneapolis Telecommunications Minneapolis Travel Minneapolis  
