 BOSTON (Menafn - MarketWatch) -- Shares of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were mixed in early trading Monday as speculation continues to swirl that a government bailout is inevitable with no housing recovery in sight.Fannie FNM lost ground in early action, but Freddie FRE traded higher Monday morning after a string of media reports this weekend that the Treasury Dept. will be forced to rescue the companies, a move that could wipe out existing shareholders. Both stocks have lost more than 90% of their value over the past year as the government-sponsored enterprises have been hit by the storm in mortgage and housing markets.The mortgage-finance giants have seen their funding costs rise on expectations the government will bail them out as a result of inability to raise capital. Fannie and Freddie were pummeled last week after Moody's downgraded the preferred shares.However, not everyone is convinced a rescue is right around the corner. 'The end game for the GSE situation could be quite a long time in coming,' wrote Credit Suisse analysts in an investor note. 'In our view, it is highly unlikely that either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac's capital will fall below critical levels by the end of the third quarter, so a conservatorship/nationalization will likely not occur in the near term,' they said. 'We believe a capital infusion from the Treasury is possible, but we view it as also unlikely unless losses in the third quarter go far beyond our worst estimates.' Barclays Capital also warned any GSE bailout could take some time to play out. 'While imminent action is certainly possible, it is not clear to us that the Treasury is in any rush to act,' Barclays analysts said in a report Monday. 'Ultimately, it appears as though Treasury action will only be forced if a debt auction freezes up. As long as investors keep buying the debt, the stock price is irrelevant.' There are concerns that time could be up for the GSEs if they are unable to refinance their debt. Fannie and Freddie have $225 billion of debt they need to roll over by the end of September, The Wall Street Journal reported last week.Another financial stock pressured by the credit crunch, Lehman Brothers LEH, was off early Monday after posting a rare rally on Friday, gaining about 5% on speculation the firm could be taken over.Yet South Korea's financial regulator has warned the Korean Development Bank should take a cautious approach to buying an overseas bank, following KDB's expression of interest in Lehman, according to the Financial Times.Meanwhile, Lehman Chief Executive Richard Fuld is facing an internal campaign to force him out by the end of the year, U.K.-based daily The Observer reported Sunday.  The broad financial sector lost ground to start the week. The Financial Select Sector SPDR XLF, an exchange-traded fund tracking financial stocks, was down more than 2% on Monday morning. The ETF is off more than 15% over the past three months on worries over banks' capital reserves and more pain in the U.S. housing market.
