 An independent report released yesterday exonerates the Competition Bureau for resorting to the use of secret hearings before a judge to obtain sweeping disclosure orders.Lawyer Brian Gover, who was appointed to review the process for obtaining production orders under section 11 of the Competition Act, concluded the bureau 'conducts its role responsibly under [section 11] and it properly balances the burden on respondents, particularly third parties, against the need to obtain the information necessary for an inquiry.' However, competition lawyers in private practice are panning the report. The criticisms range from a lack of consultation with the parties that have to respond to section 11 orders -- which can cost Canadian businesses hundreds of thousands of dollars to comply with -- to concerns that the report 'skates' over the heart of the matter which Mr. Gover was appointed to review. 'I think it's unbelievably one-sided,' added Brian Facey, a lawyer at Blake Cassels &amp;amp; Graydon, who triggered the review when he challenged broad production orders the bureau obtained in the Labatt-Lakeport merger, which involved most of Canada's major brewers.This past winter, Federal Court Judge Anne Mactavish slammed Department of Justice lawyers acting for the bureau, accusing them of providing 'misleading, inaccurate and incomplete' disclosure when seeking the orders.That led Jim Prentice, the Industry Minister, to call on the bureau to explain its actions in the case and led to the appointment of Mr. Gover to review the process for obtaining such orders.Mr. Gover canvassed a wide range of bureaucrats within the department of justice, and the bureau, as well as U. S. antitrust officials and former directors of the bureau. However, the report is light on consultations with the private bar, acknowledging only one meeting with competition law practitioners, two lawyers from the  competition section.In an interview, Mr. Gover said he canvassed other competition lawyers, though he declined to name them.His report takes issue with Judge Mactavish's findings in rulings against the bureau, saying, 'the conclusions of the Federal Court in Labatt were not warranted.' Mr. Gover also takes the private bar to task for being too adversarial. 'While parties to a merger continue to make voluntary disclosure, there appears to be an increasingly adversarial relationship and less co-operation between the bureau and the private competition law bar with respect to voluntary information requests. Responsibility for this adversarial relationship rests, in part, with the private competition bar.' That brought a sharp retort from the competition bar, including James Musgrove, one of the CBA lawyers who met with Mr. Gover, in the presence of the very Competition Bureau officials whose processes Mr. Gover was reviewing. 'The bar wasn't fully consulted,' he said. He criticized Mr. Gover for suggesting in his report that the competition bar has issues with 'existence of the section 11 power.' Mr. Musgrove, a lawyer at Lang Michener, disagreed with that assessment, saying, 'I think the bureau does need investigative powers.' However, he said, they should be brought with notice given to the companies that are subject to the order, where appropriate.Mark Katz, a competition lawyer at Davies Ward Phillips &amp;amp; Vineberg, called the report unbalanced. 'I think it's telling us that the process was clearly managed by the competition bureau and the department of justice. They have done a great job of damage control,' he said.
