 WESTPAC chief executive Gail Kelly is one of the world's most powerful women, according to influential US publication Forbes.Mrs Kelly was ranked 11th in Forbes annual list of the . Mrs Kelly took over the helm at Westpac in February, and is currently championing a proposal to merge with her former employer St George Bank. The South African-born banking boss was one of only two Australian-based woman to make the list. Georgina Rinehart, chairman of Hancock Prospecting squeaked in at number 98.Deputy Prime Minister Julia Gillard failed to make the list.Mrs Kelly beat the likes of talk show queen Oprah Winfrey, who was ranked 36, Queen Elizabeth II at 58, and New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark at 56. Germanys chancellor Angela Merkel topped the list for the third year in a row, followed by the head of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Sheila Bair, and PepsiCo boss Indra Nooyi in third place. Power not all about money The women ranked in the top 100 control $US26 trillion ($30 trillion) worldwide. But making the list doesnt mean a woman has to be personally rich. Forbes measures power based on public profile and financial power. The public profile rating is based on how many mentions a woman gets in the press. Hillary Clinton had the highest public profile, but ranked just 28th because she lacked the financial heft of some of her peers. The financial power component of the rating takes into account a womans job title, past career achievements and the amount of money she controls. For the full list of the worlds most powerful women visit the Forbes website. Share this article    . Mrs Kelly took over the helm at Westpac in February, and is currently championing a proposal to merge with her former employer St George Bank. The South African-born banking boss was one of only two Au... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/dailytelegraph/story/0,22049,24255412-5001028,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
