 Positive Cash Flow Finance, the business started by City Invoice Finance founders David Smith and Phil Chesham, has put 5m worth of funding into North West businesses in its first nine months of trading. The Manchester firm said that it has benefited from clearing banks' revision of their more generous terms of recent years and nervousness about certain sectors. In the past three or four years, the clearing banks moved into this space and commoditised the service, said Chesham, who is the company's sales and marketing director. However, we've already proved that we can deliver what we offer and in a market like this people are prepared to pay a bit more. The company was started last December when Manchester-based private equity firm Infinity Asset Management put in 2m of equity for a majority stake in the firm. Positive Cash Flow Finance also agreed a 25m funding line with Lloyds TSB Commercial Finance which, although technically a competitor, has a trackrecord of backing independents in this field, according to Chesham. Smith said that the firm had picked up most of its work through accountants and other professional intermediaries. And although most of its clients so far have been new prospects, the contacts that introduced them have worked with the directors for years. As a team, the four of us have experience in the sector that is second to none  and I'd include the bank's in-house factoring teams in that, said Chesham. If we do gain an introduction, we'll always make sure we ring the introducer afterwards to let them know how it went. Word-of-mouth Smith said the new business was already beginning to win work through word-of-mouth. For inst-ance, it recently put in a funding line to a shopfitting business based in Ashton-under-Lyne which had been bought from the administrators by its previous management team, saving 20 jobs. We were put into that by an accountant who was pleased with a pre-pack we'd done for a previous client of theirs, he added. Positive has also just completed a refinancing of an automotive engineering business whose existing bank factor pulled out. The banks have been looking to exit often what are bloody good businesses because they take a broad brush approach rather than focusing on individual businesses, said Smith. Dominic Vincent, a Manchester-based insolvency specialist with law firm Mace &amp;amp; Jones, said he believes that current and future market conditions will present greater opportunities for independent factors such as Positive, as well as other non-traditional sources of funding. Figures just released from the Bank of England showed that corporate cash balances had declined for the first time in a decade, and Vincent is concerned that by early next year bank support for SMEs could start to dry up, leaving cash-strapped businesses stranded. The next six to eight months could be a rough ride, he said. The banks are likely to be unhelpful as cash is tight and demand for extra cash from corporate customers is intensifying. Furthermore, this is against a backdrop of the Financial Services Authority urging banks to hoard funds, while the Treasury wants banks to step up mortgage lending. The bottom line is there is less cash around for SMEs. 
