 THE Reserve Bank of Australia will cut its official cash rate in a fortnight because the economy is braking sharply. The banks will follow suit soon after because their funding costs are falling and because they all want to maintain their share of a downsized home lending market.Kevin Rudd and Wayne Swan will want to bank much of the credit. Their rhetorical face-slap against bank greed is set to add to their political capital. That will be in contrast to the Hollowmen farce of their GroceryChoice and FuelWatch attacks on the supermarket duopoly and big oil. The cut to mortgage interest rates will be the first bit of genuine economic relief Swan has received as Treasurer. It will be the first time in seven years that any treasurer - including Peter Costello - has shared with working families the good news of lower mortgage repayments. With crude oil prices also falling on world markets, it will help restore polish to Rudd's tarnished promise to relieve the pressure on household budgets. The rate cut will signal that the central bank thinks the Coalition's inflation genie can be put back in the bottle even though it is likely to rise to 5 per cent before the job's done. While the spectre of rising unemployment means the Treasurer can't crow too much, it will be touted as central bank endorsement of Swan's first budget three months ago. The political importance of this rate cut has publicly wrong-footed the bank chief executives, who understandably have been focused on their falling share prices and the global credit crunch. They have been sucked in by reporters' demands that they guarantee to quickly pass every basis point of any Reserve Bank rate cut. As Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner has noted, no bank boss can responsibly do that; who knows what will happen in the weeks ahead? But the Commonwealth Bank's Ralph Norris got sidetracked into protesting that we don't live in a communist state. His readjusted position is that his bank will pass on at least some of the Reserve Bank cut; it's just a matter of how much. In the end, it won't matter. If the banks don't fully pass on to begin with, the Reserve Bank will simply keep cutting its cash rate, deputy-governor Ric Battellino said last week. What matters for the Reserve Bank is what borrowers actually pay. But the mini-controversy will allow the lecturing PM and his Treasurer to show working families that Labor is prepared to elbow the banks on their behalf. This comes with FuelWatch and GroceryChoice-style measures to empower bank consumers. Swan is requiring banks make it easier for home borrowers to switch lenders and has bad-mouthed loan exit fees. A House of Representatives economics committee is examining 'proposals that could help to increase competition and reduce fees and charges for people struggling with their mortgages'. At the committee's hearings last week, Labor backbenchers complained that their constituents were battling to service mortgages that exceeded the value of their houses and that the credit crunch had knocked out non-bank competition. The banks 'seem to have us by the short and curlies', complained one backbencher. But the Reserve Bank's Battellino suggested that 'a lot of talk about financial stress' was overdone. Fewer than 25,000 households across Australia were more than 90 days in arrears on their mortgage repayments. And the pioneer of the non-banks, Aussie Home Loans' John Symond, argued that the credit crunch had brought sanity back to a market distorted by too much, rather than too little, competition. This had reached the 'stupid point' of no-deposit loans, where 'some people who really shouldn't have been borrowing money were borrowing money'. Committee members gulped when JP Morgan banking analyst Brian Johnston suggested that the value of their constituents' highly leveraged houses might have to fall substantially. And the Government's main advisers endorsed market forces. 'We think it is reasonable to conclude that the Australian financial sector is competitive,' Battellino said. There was no evidence the banks had failed to provide adequate finance for households and business. Interest rate spreads had declined substantially during the past 15 years, while innovative financial products had proliferated. While Australian banks were highly profitable by international standards, this was largely due to very low levels of bad debts. Both the Reserve Bank and Treasury opposed calls (already ruled out by Swan) to set up some sort of government guarantee vehicle to support the mortgage originators that had been knocked out of the market. The entry of foreign banks in the 1980s didn't hurt the Australian banking oligopoly. It took competition from mortgage originators such as Aussie Home Loans in the '90s to cut the banks' interest margins. But Battellino said the downturn in mortgage securitisation finance - the bundling up of mortgages into tradeable securities - was cyclical, not structural. It would return when the market settled down. In any case, even the mere threat of this crimped the banks' market power. Banking was contestable. Both the Reserve Bank and Treasury said mortgage switching between banks was already substantial, more so than for other transaction accounts. And they argued that exit fees in fact might be a pro-consumer result of competition as they freed borrowers from having to pay the up-front costs of establishing a loan. All this left Labor's committee chairman Craig Thomson 'a little disturbed'. After all, he needs to show his committee is bringing the banks to heel. Perhaps the Government could sool Graeme Samuel's Australian Competition and Consumer Commission on to the banks, as it has on to Woolworths, Wesfarmers-owned Coles and the petrol companies. But the ACCC gave a mini-verdict on this last week, declaring that Westpac's $18 billion takeover bid for Australia's fifth biggest bank, St George, was 'unlikely to substantially lessen competition'. While St George was 'a relatively innovative and dynamic competitor with a strong focus on customer service', other competitors would 'continue to play a similar role'. No matter what the banks do on interest rates, it would be a bold move for Swan to block the Westpac-St George merger given that ACCC conclusion. In any case, the Treasurer has some real problems to deal with, such as the danger that plunging commodity prices are a sign that the global economy is in more trouble than previously thought. He'll hope the banks can cope with that. stutchburym@theaustralian.com.au 
