 12 pm ET ExecutivesL. Stephen Smith - CEODonald P. Lofe Jr. - CFOBill Horning - VP IRDavid Kacko - President and COOBrad Shuster - President and CEO of PMI Capital Corp.AnalystsPeter Horne from Gates CapitalMike Gracher - Piper JaffreyJames Gilligan - Equity Group InvestmentsMark Debris - Lehmann BrothersJonathan Adams - OppenheimerHoward Shapiro - FoxPresentationOperatorGood morning and welcome to the second quarter 2008 earnings call for the PMI Group. At this time all are in a listen only mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question and answer session. To ask a question, please press (* 1) on your touch tone phone. Today's conference is being recorded, if you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I'd now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Bill Horning, Vice President Investor relations Bill Horning Good Afternoon and welcome to the PMI Groups second quarter 2008, earnings result conference call. Today's call will begin with comments from Steve Smith; PMI's Chairman and CEO. Mr. Smith will discuss PMI's overall financial results and business highlights for the second quarter. Donald P. Lofe, PMI's Executive VP and CFO will then address various financial and capital matters. We also have with us today David Kacko, President and COO of PMI's mortgage insurance company, and Brad Shuster, President and CEO of PMI Capital Corp. Who along with Steve and Don, will be available to answer your questions following our prepared remarks. I would also like to mention that FGIC has not released their 2nd quarter 2008 financial results, but since we impaired the carrying value of our investment in the last quarter, we did not need for them to complete their results in order for us to complete our quarterly financial results. Also on today's call we will be referencing non-GAAP measures, such as net operating income which under SEC regulation G we were required to reconcile with GAAP. The reconciliations of these measures to GAAP financial measures are available on our web site.And before we begin, I would like to review the company's safe harbor statement under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. During this call we may be making forward looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the statements made during this call. The company's business depends on investment considerations which are highlighted in our SEC filings including our most recent form 10K and 10Q. All forward looking statements are made as of today August second, 2008, and we undertake no obligation to update such statements except as such as may be required by law. Thanks and at this time I'll turn the call over to PMI's Chairman and CEO; Steve Smith.Steve Smith Thanks Bill and Good morning, or afternoon everyone, and I thank you for joining today's conference call. As you've seen in our financial results released this morning, the PMI Group had a net loss in the second quarter of $246.3 million, or $3.03 per share. PMI Mortgage Insurance Company had a challenging second quarter, reflecting the continued difficulties in the US housing and capital markets as well as the broader economy. As a result, we had a loss of $225.9 million in our US mortgage insurance operations in the 2nd quarter. However, our international operations posted net income of $31.1 million, driven by $24 million of net income from PMI Australia, approximately $5.7 million of net income from PMI Europe, and approximately $2.5 million from PMI Asia.In our financial guarantees segment we had equity losses from [ram re], which combined with our partial impairment of our investment balance in the 4th quarter, brought our investment in [ram re] to zero. In addition and as previously disclosed in a recent 8K, we reported a net loss of $21.8 million at PMI Guarantee, in connection with commuting substantially all of its remaining risk. However, completion of this process has allowed us to redeploy approximately $140 million in excess capital to PMI Mortgage Insurance Company and our holding company. Now as we publicly stated, we intend to contribute at least 80% of this excess capital to entities within our US mortgage insurance segment. As we announced this morning in our press release, We'll be closing our PMI Canada operation, and redeploying its excess capital to PMI Mortgage Insurance Company. In order to repatriate the excess capital, we will need to facilitate the removal of a small amount of risk in force, currently residing at PMI Canada. We expect to repatriate approximately $60 million to PMI Mortgage Insurance Company by the end of the year. With regard to PMI Europe, we will reconfigure our operations to conserve and enhance capital and reduce expenses while maintaining a presence in Europe. We will continue to service our existing customers out of our Dublin, Ireland office. As mentioned earlier, our Australian and Asian operations continue to deliver solid results. Our international platforms have provided us with financial flexibility that we believe is important as we continue to navigate the market conditions in the US.I would like to again share with you the thing that we are doing within the company that are in our control all of which fall within the framework of our five point plan for progress, as you may recall, our plan includes the following point; focus on our core business, book high quality new business, mitigate losses, manage expenses, and maintain financial strength. In our US Mortgage Insurance operations we are exercising control in the areas of quality and volume of the new business that we are insuring. In Q2 2008, we booked $4.5 billion in new insurance, bringing the year to date total to $10.7 billion. As we have discussed last quarter, we have led the mortgage market with several changes in our guidelines, and pricing going back into August of 2007, when recently we announced a new risk based rate structure. This is a significant change for the industry, as we are the first to introduce a comprehensive risk based pricing for all borrow paid rates. This new structure was announced on July 29, and will become effective on October 1st.Collectively, all of these changes, including underwriting guideline changes, our stress market policy, and our new pricing structure are designed to support new business writings that are of high credit quality. If you look at the distribution of our new insurance written in the second quarter, you can see the positive results these initiatives are having. For example, our new insurance written in Q2 of 2008, consisted of 98% of the loans were fixed rate. 40% had FICO scores of 740 or above, the average FICO was 721, the average loan to value was 90%, and 69% of our new insurance written had loan to values at or below 90% loan to value. Our other positive developments included the rate in our primary portfolio, improved approximately 79.6%, up from 71.7% from one year ago. Our insurance in force ended the quarter at $123.2 billion, an increase of 105 compared to one year ago, total net premiums written increased to $196 million, up from $189 million one year ago. Total net premiums earned increased to $204 million compared to $195 million in Q2 2007.With regards to our credit performance, and expectation for paid claims, as we announced in early July, we have tightened our guidance range for paid claims for the full year of 2008, to $975 million. Through the first 6 months of 2008, we have paid claims including loss adjustment expenses, of $367.6 million. In the second quarter, net incurred losses for $552.5 million, and we are receiving an increasing benefit from our captive reinsurance agreements, as they reach their attachment points and help mitigate incurred losses. In the second quarter we received approximately $190 million of benefit from our captive reinsurance programs. This helped to build our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses to approximately $2.1 million, an increase of $543 million to our gross reserve for losses compared to the end of the first quarter of this year.I'd also like to address you to the additional exposure included in our supplemental portfolio presentation we released today for information on our captive reinsurance agreements and other detailed matters. Another area of enhanced focus is in loss mitigation. We're experiencing increases in our loss mitigation efforts from all of our initiatives; direct borrow outreach, PMI On site servicing of employees, streamline modifications, In May, our homeownership preservation group issued new guidelines that defined the criteria for loan modifications and delegates the authority to modify the terms of these eligible loans to loan servicing companies. This expedites the loan-modification process and assists our services efforts to keep more borrowers in their homes. Through mid-year 2008 we have approved over 3200 loan workouts. This has more than doubled the number of approvals granted in the first half of 2007. Our workout efforts in the first half of this year have enabled approximately 1700 families to retain their loans, and approximately 1500 loans to avoid closure through pre-sales or deals in lieu.This compares to 8,051 claims we have paid in the first half of 2008. So it's truly a meaningful impact in reducing the number of claims. Moving to expense management - we continue to be very cognizant of our cost structure and ways to leverage every dollar we spend. In our US mortgage insurance operations we count our expenses and check and posted an expense ratio in the second quarter of 14.3%, among the best in the industry.The announced closure of our office in Canada, and the reconfiguration of our European operations will entail one time charges with respect to these actions. However, our costs savings on a sustained basis will be meaningful. And finally, we remained focused on maintaining our financial strength. The action we have taken with our international operatio...
