 American International Group Inc. now trails Manulife Financial Corp. for the title of North America's most valuable insurer after AIG's 10-month slide tied to the U.S. housing market.Manulife has a market value of US$51.4-billion, compared with US$50.5-billion for New York-based AIG, based on today's stock prices. AIG has slumped 68% this year, compared with an 11% decline for Manulife. 'We've never had a financial institution in Canada, to my knowledge, being the largest market cap,' said Ian Nakamoto, research director at MacDougall, MacDougall and MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about US$4.5-billion including Manulife shares.AIG has lost US$97.4-billion in market value this year as bad bets on U.S. subprime mortgages led to more than US$18-billion in total net losses in the past three quarters. By contrast, Toronto-based Manulife has avoided debt writedowns. AIG remains the largest North American insurer by assets.'AIG sold swaps to protect investors from losses in fixed-income holdings. The contracts issued by its financial products unit guaranteed US$441-billion of assets as of June 30, including US$57.8-billion in securities tied to subprime mortgages.Manulife fell 66 cents, or 1.8%, to $36.11 in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. AIG declined US$1.09, or 5.5%, to US$18.78 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier today, AIG reached it lowest price since 1995. It's the year's worst performer in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.Manulife has climbed 72% over the past five years. Manulife has been buoyed by a Canadian currency that has surged about 34% over the past five years against the U.S. dollar. That gain increases the company's value in U.S.-dollar terms.AIG hired Robert Willumstad as chief executive in June, replacing Martin Sullivan after record losses.Mr. Willumstad is conducting a review of AIG's businesses to improve performance and consider possible asset sales. A turnaround plan will be announced Sept. 25, he said. AIG has units that originate, insure and invest in mortgages. Mr. Willumstad 'would not consider any major acquisitions at this time,' he said Aug. 7. Manulife is seeking to be an acquirer. CEO Dominic D'Alessandro said in May that he may add other insurers, banks or money managers. Mr. D'Alessandro, who has led Canada's biggest insurer for more than 15 years, orchestrated the largest takeover by a Canadian finance firm with the US$13.9-billion purchase of Boston-based John Hancock Financial Services Inc. in 2004. 'In troubled times, opportunities arise,' he said. 'We haven't been hurt by many of the problems and we're extraordinarily liquid.' The acquisition of Hancock doubled the size of Manulife's U.S. operations, making it the largest seller of group long-term insurance products at the time. U.S. insurance and asset-management earnings accounted for about 40% of Manulife's profit at the end of the first quarter.Manulife competes with AIG in selling life insurance and annuities in the U.S. and overseas. AIG was ranked first by U.S. life insurance premiums in 2006 with US$44.8-billion, while Manulife's John Hancock was No. 5 with US$27.1-billion, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. John Hancock was the third-largest underwriter of U.S. group annuities in 2006, while AIG was No. 6.Bloomberg.com
