 NEW YORK -- A few years from now, the world's largest insurer might not be so large.Embattled American International Group Inc., in an effort to become profitable again, appears to be leaning toward shrinking -- a similar strategy to that taken by Citigroup Inc., one of the world's biggest banks. 'A less complex AIG will be a better competitor,' AIG's new chief executive, Robert Willumstad, said during a conference call Thursday with investors.But Willumstad, a Citi veteran, has yet to reveal any definitive plans. And with the mortgage crisis still far from resolution, investors remain wary about stock in a company that has lost money for three straight quarters and that may have to raise more capital. After revealing a nearly $5.4 billion second-quarter loss late Wednesday, AIG saw its shares plummet 16 percent in Thursday's trading. 'AIG could not have reported more horrific results,' wrote Bijan Moazami, an analyst with Friedman Billings Ramsey, in a note early Thursday. He downgraded AIG's stock to a 'hold' rating from 'buy.' 'At this point, we believe that AIG is too big and too complicated for anyone to fully understand and it should be broken up,' Moazami said. 'We will reassess our views on AIG when a strategic plan is unveiled or when the market environment improves.' AIG operates a wide variety of businesses in about 130 countries, ranging from life insurance, auto insurance, property insurance, and mortgage insurance to retirement services, lending, investment services and airline leasing.AIG owns Mount Mansfield Ski. Co., the entity that operates Stowe Mountain Resort in Stowe, Vt.AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp. recently funded a $200 million project at the resort to build Stowe Mountain Lodge, a lavish hotel that offers luxury, slopeside accommodations. The hotel opened in June.Wall Street's calls for a break-up of AIG are not as loud as they were for Citigroup, which was having problems boosting profits even before spiking mortgage defaults triggered the credit crisis last summer.Willumstad's review is still incomplete, but he said it will result in 'significant changes.''Our goal is straightforward: to define AIG's vision and determine the optimal portfolio of businesses based on where our true competitive advantages lie,' the CEO said during Thursday's call. He reiterated the company intends to keep International Lease Finance Corp., AIG's airline leasing business, which posted record results in the second quarter.Over the past three quarters, AIG has lost about $25 billion in the value of credit default swaps -- or default protection for bondholders -- and about $15 billion in other investments. Executives say they believe actual, realized losses will end up being much smaller.The problem is that AIG -- which called its subprime exposure 'minimal' a year ago -- is not only joining the likes of Citi and Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. in its mortgage-related asset write-downs. Its other businesses are also weak. 'While these charges alone are disconcerting, some of the underlying trends in the company's core lines of business suggest that a return to more normal earnings power may be further off than we had previously thought,' wrote Goldman Sachs analyst Thomas Cholnoky in a note to clients late Wednesday. 'AIG is clearly facing competitive pressures in many of its business lines that are unlikely to abate in the near term.'
