Welcome to the first November edition of the Customer Service Carnivale!&amp;nbsp; The big holidays are just around the corner and for many of you it's going to be a busy time.&amp;nbsp; This is the time to make sure that your staff is ready to deal with all those customers.&amp;nbsp; Hopefully the articles in this edition will offer inspiration and give you ideas on how to improve your customer service.&amp;nbsp;   Customer Service - do the businesses really practice it? offers a reminder that there's still a great deal of work to be done to improve service in large organizations.  Service Untitled offers a great customer service tip:&amp;nbsp; Communicated Expected Hold Time. &amp;nbsp;  Jim over at Blueprint for Financial Prosperity shares this great story: Wow, Another Reason I LUV Southwest .&amp;nbsp; Jim says, &amp;quot;I don't work for Southwest but I absolutely love them because of their stellar customer service. Here's a story about how they, specifically their crew, gave my wife and me a bottle of champagne on our honeymoon flight just because we mentioned it in passing!&amp;quot;Kordell Norton offers It's a Funny World?. . . .everybody says that . . .but no one is laughing posted at The Customer Experience, saying, &amp;quot;How does laughter play a part in Customer Service and Excellence.  Oh yeah. . .it does. . . big time.&amp;quot; And speaking of laughter....For a little humor, check out Is That Service? posted at So You Want To Be a Banquet Manager.. VW shares an experience that I'm sure many of us can relate to in Brought to my knees by the Bank of America.&amp;nbsp;   John Crickett presents Do You Eat Your Own Dog Food? posted at Business Opportunities And Ideas, saying, &amp;quot;Is your product/service good enough that you'd use it yourself?&amp;quot;   For those of you who have read this blog for awhile, you know that I always preach, &amp;quot;Follow your passions!&amp;quot;&amp;nbsp; If you're doing what you love, you will always provide good service.&amp;nbsp; I wanted to share this post, Dream More, Work Less in hopes that it will inspire you to really think about what you're currently doing and if you're working towards your dreams.   I should send my lawyer this next post because he seems to have trouble returning my phone calls!&amp;nbsp; Andrew Flusche asks Can You Call Your Lawyer? posted at Andrew Flusche, Virginia Lawyer, saying, &amp;quot;Can your clients reach you on the phone?  If not, you should fix that!&amp;quot;  Brad Trnavsky shares How Loyal Are Your Customers? posted at Sales Management 2.0.  The big takeaway is &amp;quot;Loyal customers always return and become a dependable lifetime sales stream.&amp;quot;  Love it!   Emmanuel Oluwatosin wants to know: Are you letting go of your prodigal clients?&amp;nbsp; I agree that it's less costly to retain current clients! That concludes this edition.  Submit your blog article to the next edition of customer service carnivale using our carnival submission form. Past posts and future hosts can be found on our  blog carnival index page.  Technorati tags:   customer service carnivale, blog carnival.      
