It's quite hard to get my thoughts into a coherent order at the moment, so cut me some slack if I don't make any sense.I haven't really been sad this weekend, whichmay at first seem quite good. However, that's only because I've been in a sort of zombified state for the past few days as I've been getting hardly any sleep, and it's quite hard to feel depressed when your brain is unable to function properly (although I guess it's not functioning properly anyway so....hmmm). I've also been around people like all weekend so I haven't had a chance to actually let my mind wander.I've just been downstairs and it was so awful that I actually cried. I was thinking of getting my cameras and taking pictures so you guys could see what I'm living with, but I didn't want to go there again. As soon as you walk in the front door, there aredirty leaves everywhere, letters both opened and unopened, and socks and other pieces of underwear. As you move into the living room, there're empty crisp packets, pot noodles and other snack packets littered about everywhere; half-drunk cups of tea with skins on the top, random items of clothing about the floor, and the sofas' cushions are just in an abslute mess. As you move into the kitchen, there are dirty pots and pans EVERYWHERE, miscellaneous stains all over the floor and all the worktops, and empty food packets/bowls with defrosting meat in them just lying about. Basically no room to be able to prepare any actual food, and even if you could it's ridiculously unsanitary.Ugh, just thinking about it makes me want to vomit.But yeah, everyone else is out so I can't ask them to clear this shit up (it's definitely not my shit seeing as I've been out most of this weekend), and if I clear it up they'll just carry on doing this, so I'm just not going to eat or go downstairs. I'm gonna attempt to tidy my room up loads so at least I have some uncluttered and clean place in this house, as I'm sure all the mess going on around me isn't good for my sanity.My essay is in for 5 o'clock. I have done none of it.I cba to go into stuff involving the crisis team. Basically I saw them after work on Saturday and they talked to me about a load of stuff that was in my notes...except they hadn't read my notes. They didn't keep me in, and they've rung again today to say I have an appointment next Tuesday with a doctor.I don't know what I'm gonna eat today =/
