Another fun day in the life of the Guilers! We went to church this morning and heard a great message on being open to living life the way God wants us to live it and we were encouraged to ask God to show us what He had for us to do. Isn't that so hard? To open ourselves up to things not in our control? But, really, if we say we trust our Lord for everything and we know that He has nothing but the best for us, why is it so hard to step out of our comfort zones and do something different? For me, it is all about the control. But, I am going to be praying that I recognize the opportunities God lays before as I live my life this week. I hope you can do the same!This afternoon 11 of the women in the park went to lunch at Olive Garden. It was Linda's birthday and we wanted to celebrate her. She and her husband, Ralph, have had it tough these last few months as Ralph has been very ill since the summer. Among other illnesses, he has been diagnosed with lymphoma and is now back in the hospital with a very contagious infection in his colon. Linda has been at the hospital day and night and is exhausted. So, we wanted to get her out and help her to have fun. I think we accomplished our mission. She thoroughly enjoyed the lunch and that so many of us came out to help her celebrate. She and Ralph have a very long road ahead of them. It's nice that we could bring her some joy along that road.And of course, Sunday isn't complete until we've attended the weekly ice cream social at the clubhouse. This activity is a lot of fun. Almost everyone in the park shows up for ice cream. You never know who you'll be sitting with and you get to hear people's stories. Tonight we sat with Larry &amp; Cindy, who we known for a couple of years and Cindy &amp; I play dulcimers together; and Jim &amp; Eileen, folks we've just met this year. This is Jim &amp; Eileen's first winter at the park. They are friends with Bob &amp; Pam. Pam is another woman with whom I play dulcimers. It was great sharing adventures with Jim &amp; Eileen and Larry &amp; Cindy. Now, it's time to sit back in the recliners and watch a little TV. Tomorrow is banking day. We have to drive 50 minutes into Pensacola, FL to go to the bank because there isn't a branch of Bank of America in Alabama. Glad we only have to do this once a month! But, we'll probably treat ourselves to breakfast along the way! :)Did you all remember to set your clocks back an hour? :) It was great actually waking up to the sunrise this morning instead of the the pitch black sky we've been seeing!Until the next time . . . 
