yes it's back to this again. writing a blog for a purpose this time, as well as to avoid doing my essays so uve deleted me as a friend on facebook. i hope that makes u feel sufficiently superior to me. tad hypocrtitical tho my dear...i think i cared about our friendship when u didnt tell me u were with my ex for 3 months. and as far as u know, some pictures of me kissing his brother have surfaced on the internet. if thats all that happened, surely forgiveness should be apparent in your heart. fair play it wasnt, but still, the principle remains  id also like to say i didnt find it hysterically funny that you took apart your bedroom for me. that was ill typed, and not meant that way at all. i was meaning that my overreaction was ridiculous and hilarious. and tbh it didnt take mroe than 15 minutes or so, hardly all morning love im disappointed to be frank. additionally, i fucking like this guy. i really really do. ive liked him for months, and its purely because of your boyfriend that i havent pursued him properly before. in fact i think if i hadnt been drunk then it wud never have happpened. but i wudnt take it back for the world, it made my day utterly perfect alright so ive not heard from him in a while and he probably doesnt really care that much about me. thats pretty devastating, so dont make it fucking worse for me please also i had no idea photos were being taken of us, and i dont think he did either. its slightly annoying that the only photos uve probably seen were of me on top of him...makes me look like a proper slag who just went for him - there are actually pictures available of him on me/him also initiating stuff. it was two way. so why only angry at me?&amp;nbsp;but whatever.. so yeah i am genuinely sorry that my actions have caused you to 'defriend' me to nick a phrase from alice. but i dont regret my actions at all. perhaps shudnt have done it in front of a load of people, but still. i did what i wanted, what made me happy, i cant regret it because ive wanted it for nearly a year. i could rant so much more but i cba and really need to write my two essays. one last thing tho - if this causes harrassment of the guy, and means he loses interest in me ul have succeeded in breaking my heart&amp;nbsp;once again.  hopefully not congrats in advance
