Okaaaaaay. So i didnt meet wiL Francis, heroherohero&amp;nbsp; :( &amp;nbsp; But i did meet Nick Wiggins from Aiden! &amp;nbsp; Okay im gunna write about my day, then get summin to eat then go to bed XDSo i got up at 7am&amp;nbsp; :(&amp;nbsp; Didnt have any coffee, bad times. But got ready and stuff, then me and dad went to the train station. Dad decided to take pictures of my through out the day. So here are the ones from the train station. Im aware i look like a twat :) Okay so then i saw my friend Emma! I was like EMMA HI !&amp;nbsp; and My dad and her mum and nan talked for a bit about London coz they were going up to Kensington i thinks. Then they went off and we got tickets. Then we got on the train wooooo.HI DAD.&amp;nbsp; and me looking like a twat again. That lady...i got a brain message from her saying she was hungry, so i gave her something to nibble on :D&amp;nbsp; tasty.Anyways, so we get off in Victoria station and decide to walk off somewhere, then decided we cant be arsed so went back to the Station and got some Starbucks. VANILLA LATTE (L)&amp;nbsp; yummy. Then we got on the tube to...erm i dunno, but we went to the Tate Modern!&amp;nbsp; I always thought the Tate Modern was gunna be amazing, but it werent that great. Of course it was good, but...meh. lol.&amp;nbsp; Then we went over the Bridge to Saint Pauls Cathedral.Please try not to laugh at my face in the bottom one! Birds freak me out especially when they want food :(&amp;nbsp; Okay so then we decided to go up to Camden. DJSLJDL&amp;nbsp; Camden is awesome :D&amp;nbsp; IT has all these shops full of dark 'gothic' clothing. Shops full of bright coloured tutus. Belts, scarves, hats. And a whole load of Bongs :D&amp;nbsp; Haha its really cool though, i shoulda took some pictures of it to put on here :DAfter that, we headed over to Islington to get something to eat.I wasnt really hungry, i just want a gladd of coke. But then i decided to get a Ciabata thing? I think its spelt like that. Its like cooked bread, but its not hot, like warmish. Its good lol. See?&amp;nbsp; Tasty :DOkay, so we mooched around the shops a little, nothing to interesting. I found The Mighty Book Of Boosh!&amp;nbsp; Its the book completely on The Mighty Boosh. It looks so good, i might get it, but Gina will most likely get it so ill borrow it off her. Anyways, so it was about 4 oclock now, and doors opened at 7, but we decided to que anyways. BAD DECISION ! It was booooring. Well quite fun in a way, watching all these weird people go past haha.Skip that part, not much happened.So the first band were on (i cant find a good picture, but keep in mind this stage is very very small, its quite cute actually)&amp;nbsp; and this man and woman walk out the doors leading out to Backstage. I look as the man leans against the wall and wraps his arms around his girlfriend and think, wow that looks like Nick Wiggins....no it cant be. So i look away, but curiosty made me look back over, and i keep looking and im sure its him. Then his girlfriend looks at me and smiles in a 'Yes its who you think it is' way. I smiled back but didnt go over, way to nervous. And Nick walked past where we were like 5 times and i still didnt speak, nervous!&amp;nbsp; wiL might be my heroherohero, but Aiden are still my heroes lol. As well as MCR of course. Anyways, so then William Control came on. Omg, he was really amazing, i didnt expect him to be as good live. But hes better, and Nick was playing bass for him. Thats cute :)But yeah, wiL was amazing. Then after the concert, lots of people went out but some stayed in and waited for the band to come out. As we were waiting, dad told me Nick was onstage, and like no one was going over to him. So dad got the camera and i was like Dad can you ask him?&amp;nbsp; Coz i was shaking like crazy. NERVES GOD DAMMIT !&amp;nbsp; And i was about to go Nick? When dad did, he looked at us and dad was like I dont suppose you could have a picture would you?&amp;nbsp; And i added If you're not to busy?&amp;nbsp; And he was like sure and held out his arm. I was like EEEE&amp;nbsp; *snuggles in and smiles*HEY NICK !!!!!Okay so then i said Thanks :D&amp;nbsp; And dad said thanks alot you made her day, and he said sure anytime. His voice is so sweet! Its really different to on the updates the used to do :DSo anyway, i went over to the other side to get a picture witht he Guitarist, but i forgot his name. Sorrrrrry :(LOL i look like a twat. Hes cool though :)Then the security guard told everyone to get out :(&amp;nbsp; And i hadnt met wiL yet, coz he hadnt come out. So i was like fuck it, i need him to get this Envelope (my envelope of things for wiL.&amp;nbsp; Farewell Jack the guitar pick, i love you, but wiL shall look after you).&amp;nbsp; So i went up to Nick onstage and was like NICK! and he turned round and smiled at me, and im like can you pleeease give this to wiL, its really important. And he goes Sure of course i will and smiles. Im like Thanks so much !Then i cba to write the rest, its boring. Basically we rush to Victoria and get on a train back home :DEeee good times. NICK !i didnt meet heroherohero :( But i will one day :Dx
