I received a letter today from my company saying if I do not have direct deposit to the Bank of America they are going to charge me 6 dollars to cash my bank check. How the fuck is this legal? Shouldn't they be called Bank of Communism because nobody has a choice? Bank of America yet their help desk is in India.  &amp;nbsp;  Either my kids watch to much History Channel or the read the Third Reich. For some odd reason the munchins love to walk stiff legged like the Nazi march. Luckily they are cute and innocent because they do it in public all the time and nobody says a thing.  &amp;nbsp;  Wow Thanksgiving is expensive. There were 5lb bags of potatoes for 99 cents yet I decided to buy the fancy expensive potatoes and wasted 9 bucks. These mash potatoes better be fantastic this year. I have been watching a lot of Food Channel to get recipes and the Iron Chef Thanksgiving special. I do not have the kids and I am only cooking for myself technically. My dad wants me to come cook at their house but my mom is very hesitant due to me trying new ideas and using non traditional ingredients. &amp;nbsp;  Football. My god, somebody should graffiati Touchdown Jesus. ND lost to Syracuse and Charlie Weiss has 6 more years on his contract. I was telling every that the Giants were going to be better this year. 10-1 Woowho. I hate the Cowboys but those throw back unis totally rock. The Lions will go 0-16! &amp;nbsp;  The girls are getting their first Barbie from Santa this year.  &amp;nbsp;  I hate cold weather and the older I get the more I hate it but if it is going to be cold then I hope there is snow. I want to take the kids and dog sledding plus I will put my 4-wheeler to use this winter. &amp;nbsp;  I stil have not gone to get my tattoos but I will here in the next few weeks. &amp;nbsp;  I was out Friday night with a coworker at Bourbon Street and they have the wonderful game of beer pong there. I just want to let everyone now after a few years off I am still in outstanding shape and have not lost a step. In 3 games I think the closest game we still had 3 cups left.
