If youre not a bully, you tend to not like bullies. Belligerent, sarcastic, scoffing, antagonistic, critical, and prone to humiliate. Bullies have even earned special reputations these days to fuel new formulas for schoolyard conduct stretching clear into cyberspace protocol. Well, you say, these arent qualities we associate with Christians walking in the Spirit. No, theyre not.But Im telling you the aggressive huffing and puffing of a few Christians on their blogs reminds me a lot of bullying. Hey, they can say whatever they wantI wouldnt even suggest otherwise. Its just that they remind me far more of the world than they do of anyone who has experienced the transformation of Jesus Christ. Those of you who visit here regularly know Im a woman of strong opinions, full of passion in expressing them. However, I try not to let those opinions slam another person like a good hard slap across the face. And Ive failed at times, Im sure.Its easy to step on toes unintentionally pontificating on an important matter. I offended a reader when I threatened to delete his Obama commercials on my blog. I feel badly that he decided he wasnt welcome here when it was his political pitches for a candidate I could not support that werent welcome.Some people criticize and denounce certain elements of CBA fiction with near hatred and put down its readers in blanket condemnation. Others exalt the ABA as if its authors are all far superior in intelligence and abilities. Others are incensed about Christian used as an adjective.There are plenty of problems related to writing, publishing, and all life things. There is an abundance of disappointments, frustrations, weaknesses, and strife to fill the blogosphere, and I dont blame anyone for personal rants. My regulars have read their share of mine.However, the parameters do have limitations if you profess your faith in Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit sets them. I dont blame anyone for their anger, but belittling and insulting name calling doesnt do much for the claim of righteous anger.Anyway, something to think about . . .Lord, you know my heart. You know I dont desire to intentionally hurt anyone. Stand up to them if necessary, yes. Hurt them, no. Please lead me in your ways in all of my communications. In the Name of Jesus, Amen.        
