Living, as I do, in Wales, it's become quite easy to takebilingualismfor granted. Nearly everything here is available in both English and Welsh.Which is why I found the use of Spanish so interesting when I was in New York this summer.I'm hoping this post won't become an exploration of the use of language as signifier of cultural identity, because that's something I know very little about.But as a Welsh Graphic Communications student, there are a parts of bilinguality that we are invited to explore.For starters, it's a huge challenge: In a lot of professional Welsh graphic design jobs, not only are you required to produce a beautiful and effective poster, website or brochure, but it has to come in two languages, without losing any of its effect. There are whole design companies who specialise in it.Moreover, you need someone in your company who can speak the language. But they also need a firm enough grasp of it to be able to translate not just the words but also the meaning. In a country whose language is based upon convergence of centuries old local and regional dialect, that's not going to be easy. This is hard enough when being done by a Welsh company - what about the companies advertising in Wales but based externally?All of which makes it a little easier to understand little oops moments like this: BBC. The Welsh translation to this sign reads something like "I'm not in the office at the moment, please send my work for translation"Despite those setbacks, I still see the use of Welsh as a challenge, not a constraint.I also think that there should be more reasons to use both languages than just that it's the law.Admittedly, most sane people have probably thought at least once in their life that seeing as the whole population speaks English, what's the point of using Welsh at all (there was an interesting Rob Brydon documentary on this subject the other week actually). But I think they're missing some of the point.A well-designed bilingual poster will not just reach the demographic that English one would have done; DIY enthusiasts, benefit claimers, or whoever, it will also reach a Welsh Person. It's a self-identifying demographic.It could encourage more of a sense of empathy, or community, orinclusiveness. It could draw on Welsh colloquialisms to give more local impact. It could do all sorts of things by speaking exclusively to Welsh People, whether English or Welsh speaking. As aspiring designers and advertisers we should be relishing this opportunity.As an aside, I was just listening the new Seth Godin audio book ("Tribes"), and he quotes someone who says we should stop using the word "opportunity" and replace it with "obligation". So there you go.In New York, I found it all a bit confusing.This billboard is in north Brooklyn bordering on an area called Greenpoint which has a long history of being colonised primarily by Polishemigrants.This kind of advertising is everywhere in New York. If you call any big phone number, you're given the opportunity to speak in Spanish, much like in Wales with Welsh.I don't have a problem with advertising or communicating in a country's second language, as I said above. But I think there's anopportunitybeing missed. If not for value-building reasons, at least for money-saving ones.Unsurprisingly for me, being one myself, it's the smugEuropeanswho are already starting to do it a bit better:And reassuringly, there's instances where I'm reminded all to fondly of some Welsh signs.I guess my point is this: Wouldn't it be great if the idea of being a New Yorker included the idea of multilingualism?Of course, if you ask anyone, it already does.So why don't we see that in the graphic design there? Why do Bank of America have to haveseparateposters? Is the Spanish-speaking 2009 Toyota Corolla different to the English-speaking one? Are native English-speaking Americans to stupid to decode more than one language in a poster?Is there a problem with showing America as one, multicultural nation?
