The problem with and of the C names - AC, SC, FC - is that C stands for club and none of these teams are actually, ya know, clubs.       Sure, they have supporters' clubs. But they aren't clubs like the meaning of the word that they are parroting. They don't sponsor a bunch of other sports teams, like most of C teams in Europe do and they aren't clubs where the general public are members and have a say in the club's affairs. (Arguably, Seattle would be the closest MLS team to having this.)       This isn't some local club that grew bigger and became one of the bigger teams around as the team or city or league matured.       On top of that, after Dallas and Toronto, the C names are pretty much done. I know it's &amp;quot;AC&amp;quot; and not &amp;quot;FC&amp;quot; but it's still equally uncreative and even more preposterous than FC because it's a soccer TEAM not an athletic CLUB that has multiple sports.       Union? Seriously? Management, especially in a league with a well-earned reputation for being strong-arm and anti-labor - is proposing calling itself Union? Gonna be kinda ironic if they go with Union and then don't start playing in 2010 because of a lack of a CBA.       City? What does that even mean? Why don't they call it Philadelphia No Shit. It just reeks of Euro-wanna be poseurism. And if you're gonna parrot a Euro tradition, at least parrot one from a GOOD team. This would be like a European gridiron football team calling itslef the Jets or Lions.      And, Man City is called City because in their early years they had a stadium that was just outside Manchester's &amp;quot;city&amp;quot; center. So, a team playing OUTSIDE the city of it's namesake is gonna callitself City? That's just preposterous.       Look, I don't want to be seen an Nancy Negative. I think Philadelphia is a great market for MLS and the Sons of Ben have been nothing but fantastic in getting the team launched and the ownership group, even after the financial meltdown, seems strong and obviously having a stadium plan in place (barring some bickering) is a very good sign. This seems like it will be a very good franchise.       But these names don't reflect that.       I realize there are no perfect names because any name will have its detractors. And, I know that some folks will get used to even the silliest names. (I can't imagine the LA MLS team being anything BUT the Galaxy now.) But I think Philly can do better.      If you really want a Euro-style tradition, I think 2010 would be a great way to go. It's unique to American sports (sorry Houston) and reflects something meaningful to the team.       I thought calling the team the Benjamins would be interesting. Obviously, it has a bit of a current slang feel to it as some use that term for money (at least they did a few years ago) and being &amp;quot;money&amp;quot; was kinda hip for awhile. More importantly, it honors one of the city's and the country's greatest founding fathers AND it throws a bone to the SOB's, who were so instrumental in getting the team off the ground.       Commodores, given the name of the bridge, wouldn't have been bad.       As someone who went to his share of NASL games I wouldn't have minded Atoms or Fury.       And, Independence would have been fitting, similar to the Revolution playing in New England.      I'm not mad because none of the names I named above weren't picked. If someone has some better ideas, I'd gladly welcome those.       But the four finalists that Ives reported are just wrong. They're trying way too hard to be something they aren't and the words don't actually mean what they're supposed to mean but, hey, they SOUND Euro so let's go with it.       Well then, why not call the team Philadelphia British Accent?
