   lawsy82 wrote:    The Customer wrote:    lawsy82 wrote: They could have opened an account using anyone's name, chucked some money in there, and given him the card and PIN. Problem solved. I doubt the Sixers would come out stating to have opened this account if they actually hadn't, or that they had shown him the amount deposited when they hadn't.   HAHAH do me a favour Customer. Go to your CBA branch, go the front counter and ask to open an account please in the name of Julius Hodge. See how far you get. After working at the CBA for 4 years and now another Bank I can assure you opening an account is more difficult than getting a 500k mortgage. You need 100pts id, photo ID, signatures, address verified etc. So thats your challenge my friend, go to a branch and open an account in the name of Julius Hodge. Once opened PM me the account number   Idiot. I said &amp;quot;opened an account using anyone's name&amp;quot;. Did I say go use &amp;quot;Julius Hodge&amp;quot; as the name? You are constantly exposing yourself as a spoonhead.    Dude u look like the spoon head here my friend. Why would you open the account in &amp;quot;anyones name&amp;quot; ? and than just whack a lazy 150k in there for someone else to legally own??   Would Juliuis like his money being in the name of someone else??    If I was without pay and needed the money, I would prefer some money out of a bank account, which could have been a Sixers account, rather than no money in my own account. So where did you get that figure from? Making stuff up, or has dad been typing in your account?  Just to make you aware, and as I just said to Bouncer, this suggestion was made to refute your mythical claim that the Sixers opened an account in the name &amp;quot;Julius Hodge&amp;quot; and your subsequent detective work. It might not be exactly how it went down but at least I am commenting on what has been said.     lawsy82 wrote: me think not...   Never a truer word spoken.    lawsy82 wrote: He wanted the money in he's USD account ON TIME!!  Thats the issue here. USD account on time.... Sixers breached contract hodge leaves the NBL   Yes, and they made a mistake, and attempted to correct it. They beleived they had, and had confirmation that Hodge was satisfied, but he still decided to do a no show. Who breached the contract?
