 Well - Logan had his first round of Vincristine today. He is in a good mood - a little tired, but he ate his dinner and is now just sleeping on the stair landing. Chemo has cost us $500 this week- our pet budget was $160/wk - however, I have not bought any clothing/entertainment/etc - so we are just going to pull money from these other areas right now to cover the chemo. After all, we haven't perfected the "Money Tree" yet - so, there are no greenbacks growing in our backyard.   The MOST important thing though is that Logan's personality is coming back - he is getting back to his old self. So - I can say he is absolutely responding to the drugs so far! He has lost an amazing amount of weight in a short period of time. A month ago he was 112 - today he was 96 pounds. I can't feed him fats because he is prone to pancreatitis - so, I am just giving him more of his RX food and some canned RX too - It is scary to feel his spine and ribs - I was used to him being the "great hunter". He is a hunting style lab.      I called US Bank to check on our refi and got pretty annoyed - I guess they are backed up with applications in underwriting. In effect, they are prioritizing based on your lock-date. Our lock date does not expire until March 9, 2009; therefore, they won't even look at our papers in underwriting until the end of Febuary. I guess we were just hoping to have the Feb 12th closing date we had been initially told because of the new chemo expense. Grrrrr.....      Oh well - I have been hitting the comfort food pretty hard these past couple weeks!  Allison  I read you state you had been doing a lot of baking lately too! I got on the scale and realized I need to scale back my french bread, heavy carb, Hancock Lobster treats (all purchased months ago and frozen in my freezer), sweets, and more sweets - less, I can't fit into my clothes and then have something else to get annoyed at, KWIM.      This week I started to bring oatmeal to work - I just preportion a 1/2 cup (maybe more like 3/4c) in a tupperware w/cinnamon and brwn sugar, then at work I use the hot water from the Deep Rock water cooler (that stuff comes out HOT) - and presto - a healthy and very filling lunch. We'll see if eating cereal now 2 x's a day trims my waist line in a few weeks...  
