Im talking about salary cap space for 2009.  Do we ditch the salary cap plan and start stockpiling veterans with big contracts?  Do we bend over for David Stern, take Miles salary back on the cap without a fight, and try the FA market in 2009 with less cap space?  Or, should the Blazers fight David Stern and the NBA yet again to get their cap space back?  I like a good fight and I think the Blazers have another good case to beat the NBA and David Stern a 3rd time in 3 tries.  If the CBAs 10-game rule was ever valid, it certainly cant be used the way the NBA used it to guaranty the Blazers would lose their cap space and have to pay luxury taxes.  The Blazers gained salary cap relief through an objective process set forth in the CBA.  The 10-game rule as it was used amounted to merely a subjective decision by David Stern.  The way Stern played it the only possible outcome was the Blazers would lose their salary cap relief.  David Stern unilaterally changed rules to guarantee the Blazers would lose their cap space and luxury tax relief.  There seems to be a general opinion out there that the Blazers have lost their salary cap space and the matter is settled.  I just dont accept that.  Everything that has happened so far since the Blazers began the process is too predictable.  If this is it, why did the Blazers even bother to ask the NBA to examine Miles knee.   And, why did the Blazers waive Miles in April 2008 instead of April 2009?  The only explanation I have read is the Blazers were so stupid for thinking everyone else in the NBA is stupid.  I dont believe the Blazers are stupid or that they just assumed everyone else was stupid.  This is all part of a carefully measured plan and the outcome is going to be decided by an arbitrator.  The Blazers have done this before.  Paul Allen hires some sharp dudes that figure out how the Blazers can benefit from the rules.  David Stern doesnt like the aggressive undressing of the rules and tries to block what he perceives as an unfair advantage to the Blazers.  The Blazers appeal and the arbitrator says the Blazers followed the rules and they get their way.
