Top Republican legislators are calling upon the General Assembly to change Connecticut state law next week as a way to stop future bonuses that are similar to those paid by AIG, the insurance giant that has received about $170 billion in federal bailout money.  The AIG bonus flap has caused outrage around the nation, including from President Barack Obama, who asked the treasury secretary to investigate all legal means to stop the bonuses.  The company says it needs to pay the bonuses because of a provision in Connecticut law, under Section 31-72, that is known as the Connecticut Wage Act. 'The state of Connecticut should not be used as the scapegoat or the excuse for AIG to pay these outrageous'' bonuses, said House Republican leader Lawrence Cafero of Norwalk.  Those receiving the bonuses work primarily at AIG's financial products unit that is based in Wilton, an affluent town in Fairfield County. As such, AIG says that the bonuses must comply with Connecticut state law.  Cafero and Senate Republican leader John McKinney of Fairfield are calling for lawmakers to change the Connecticut Wage Act in order to exempt the double-penalty provision for any bonuses that are paid by companies that have received TARP or federal stimulus money.  If AIG failed to pay the bonuses under state law, legislators said, the company could be forced to pay a double penalty - meaning paying $330 million in bonuses. 'We are outraged to learn that AIG is using Connecticut wage laws as leverage to use taxpayer money to pay hundreds of millions of dollars in bonuses,'' McKinney said. 'The legislature should move immediately to change Connecticut law. We in Connecticut can do what Congress failed to do - which is protect taxpayers from having their hard-earned money used for these exorbitant bonuses.''  Republican Gov. M. Jodi Rell agrees with fellow Republicans about changing the law. 'The fact that AIG would even consider paying bonuses of any kind out of taxpayer funds is appalling, especially when it was AIG's greed that led to the business failure that necessitated a federal bailout in the first place,'' Rell said. 'To cite Connecticut state law as a defense for this action is contemptible. I strongly support legislation that would prohibit entities which receive federal or state bailout money from using those funds for excessive bonuses or payouts similar to AIG's outrageous attempt at self-enrichment.' 
