Joining a wave of public anger, President Barack Obama blistered insurance giant AIG for 'recklessness and greed' Monday and pledged to try to block it from handing its executives $165 million in bonuses after taking billions in federal bailout money. 'How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?' Obama asked. 'This isn't just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values.' Obama aggressively joined other officials in criticizing American International Group, the company that is fast becoming the poster boy for Americans' bailout blues.   The bonuses could contribute to a backlash against Washington that would make it tougher for Obama to ask Congress for more bailout help -- and jeopardize other parts of the recovery agenda that is dominating the start of his presidency. Thus, the president and his top aides were working hard to distance themselves from the insurer's conduct, to contain possible political damage and to try to bolster public confidence in his administration's handling of the broader economic rescue effort.   Obama had scheduled a speech Monday to announce new help for recession-pounded small businesses. But first, he said, he had a few words to say about AIG. He lost his voice at one point and ad-libbed, 'Excuse me, I'm choked up with anger here.' It was just a light aside, but he meant the sternness of his remarks to come through. 'This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed,' Obama declared. He said he had directed Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to 'pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayer whole.' One reason that the AIG bonus giveaway is such a compelling story -- and a politically troubling one for Obama if not neutralized -- is that it offers a simple story line that appears to sum up ways in which the federal bailouts have gone awry. 'This is just the kind of issue that galvanizes public outrage,' said Paul Light, professor of public service at New York University. 'It's always the tangible stuff, the things that ordinary Americans can relate to. They don't know the first thing about credit default swaps. But they do know about bonuses. And it's just the sort of thing that will undermine any future bailout activity.' Bailout steps for AIG totalling more than $170 billion since September have effectively left the federal government with an 80 per cent stake in the faltering insurance giant.   Meanwhile, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Monday he had issued subpoenas for the names of American International Group employees given millions of dollars in bonuses despite their possible roles in the insurance giant's near-collapse.
