California helped lead the country into the housing debacle. Could it now be leading the nation out?  Existing-home sales in the Golden State doubled in January from a year ago, pacing an overall 29% gain in the West. By contrast, sales nationwide fell 8.6% from a year ago, led by double-digit drops in each of the other three regions.  Meanwhile, the time it would take to sell the inventory of California homes at the current sales rate dived to 6.7 months from 16.6 months a year ago. That's close to the five or six months' supply deemed consistent with a stable market, and well below the nationwide figure of 9.6 months.  The secret to California's success? A 40% plunge in the median home price from a year ago has lured buyers despite anxiety over a deep and prolonged recession and mounting job losses. Prices have also fallen fast in former bubble markets in Arizona and Nevada. 'It's a good thing for California that the adjustment in the housing sector has been so fast and decisive. It does help clear the market,' said Dana Johnson, chief economist at Comerica Bank. But, he added, 'I'm not sure yet that the market is in good balance.' Years of reckless lending sent sales and prices soaring early in the decade, but many of those so-called subprime loans ultimately went bad, sparking a foreclosure crisis that has hit California, Nevada and Arizona especially hard. 'A large part of what's driving activity in the West is deeply discounted foreclosures,' said Michelle Meyer, a U.S. economist at Barclays Capital. 'I'd be careful of saying it's a stable market.' She said 50% to 60% of California home sales are foreclosure-related. More loom as the credit crunch and recession hit a widening swath of the economy.  California foreclosures screamed 134% in February vs. a year earlier to 38,339, Foreclosures.com said Wednesday.  Nationwide, foreclosures spiked to a record 121,756, up 67% just from January. That's despite moratoria by Freddie Mac, (FRE) Fannie Mae, (FNM) Citigroup, (C) Bank of America (BAC) and other big lenders.  The share of loan payments at least 30 days late jumped 0.9 percentage point in Q4 from Q3 to 7.88%, the highest since records began in 1972, the Mortgage Bankers Association said last week.   Defaults have spread from subprime loans that never should have been made to higher-quality prime mortgages as rising job losses strain homeowners' finances.  California's jobless rate shot up to 10.1% in January, the latest month available. U.S. unemployment hit 8.1% in February.  Meantime, RealtyTrac estimates there's a 'shadow inventory' of 500,000 to 600,000 foreclosed homes nationwide that banks haven't yet brought to market. 'There are a lot of foreclosed homes in the pipeline that are not being counted in the inventory number,' said Celia Chen, director of housing economics at Moody's Economy.com. She added: 'Our expectation is that we are close to the bottom of the market right now because of these price declines, but the risk is that we still have a lot of foreclosures coming onto the market.' To try to stem the crisis, the Federal Reserve is buying mortgage-backed securities to drive down interest rates and provide funds for more home loans.   Also, the Obama administration has set aside $75 billion to help up to 9 million homeowners avoid foreclosure by modifying loan terms.  California late last month imposed a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures, but it includes a key loophole.  Analysts say such measures are helpful but not sufficient to dampen the foreclosure wave. At best, they may only delay the inevitable. 'It will limit the downside risk,' Meyer said. 'It might avoid the disaster scenario, but I still think we'll see a big increase in foreclosures.' Falling prices have also proved to be a double-edged sword. While they've spurred California home sales, they've created a growing number of people who owe more than their houses are worth.  More than 8.3 million mortgages - or about 20% of the total - were underwater at the end of December, up from 7.6 million at the end of September, according to a recent report by First American CoreLogic.   Negative equity could prevent those struggling to make their monthly payments from refinancing into more affordable loans. Also, those who are far underwater may decide to cut their losses and walk away from their homes even if they can afford the payments.   Still, some analysts say there's reason for optimism due to foreclosure mitigation efforts, rising affordability and record-low housing starts, which will cap inventories and put a floor under prices. 'I'm expecting to see on a national level a more convincing bottoming process for sales and smaller declines in prices' by mid-2009, Johnson said, adding that 'the sooner people sense that the big adjustment in housing has more or less run its course, the better for the overall economy.'
