U.S. Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, with help from the Obama administration, worked Thursday to extricate himself from a political storm over $165 million in bonuses to insurance giant AIG, saying the matter was the result of 'confusion' arising from administration efforts to craft an economic stimulus package.  The chairman of the influential Senate banking committee acknowledged Thursday afternoon that he agreed six weeks ago to fine-tune stimulus legislation, agreeing to a change that had the effect of authorizing the much-criticized bonuses at American International Group. But Dodd said he agreed only after being persuaded by Treasury Department technical experts that the changes were necessary to speed a national recovery. And he said he was not informed that the amendment would affect AIG specifically.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, after his department issued a number of imprecise statements, confirmed Dodd's account Thursday afternoon. In an interview with CNN, Geithner said the legislation, as written by Dodd's committee, could have generated a flood of lawsuits because of its restrictions on executive compensation at financial institutions.  Dodd was asked pointedly during a conference call with Connecticut journalists whether Geithner's delay in issuing an explanation had 'hung him out to dry,' making him, for a day anyway, the target of national rage over enormous pay packages being collected by finance employees who contributed to the global credit collapse. 'Well, those are your words, not mine,' Dodd said. 'The idea came from the administration. I was not negotiating with myself. I didn't get my amendment passed and say, 'I think I'll modify my own amendment.' Now I gather that has been cleared up to some degree, which I appreciate. But I would have appreciated it earlier.' Dodd said he continues to support the increasingly embattled Geithner. He also conceded that he contributed personally to the AIG furor when he inadvertently gave an inaccurate answer during an interview with a television reporter in Washington earlier this week. Dodd said he had 'misconstrued' a question when he responded that he had nothing to do with the amendment that authorized the bonuses. 'My intention was not to mislead anybody,' Dodd said. 'My assumption [of the basis of the question] was, 'Did you change this because of AIG?' Absolutely not. To that extent there was a misconstruction of the question.' Dodd said AIG was never mentioned during his discussions with staff at the Treasury Department. Rather, Dodd said the staff members, whose names he said he does not recall, were concerned that the original stimulus legislation would arbitrarily abrogate a 'wide variety of contracts' at both small and large banks. 'They were concerned about a flood of lawsuits,' he said. Dodd's explanations, combined with Geithner's support, may help him quiet the AIG furor. But he remains a top target of Republicans if he decides to stand for re-election in 2010  he suggested strongly Thursday that he will. And even his support among neighbors in East Haddam sounded shaky after a series of controversies.  The neighbors pointed to the disclosure last year that Dodd may have been treated favorably by Countrywide Financial when refinancing two of his residences, including his 150-year-old former schoolhouse on the Connecticut River in East Haddam. Countrywide's massive issuance of mortgages to home buyers who could not afford them is believed to have contributed to the banking crisis. The firm was subject to oversight by Dodd's committee.  Dodd recently responded that he received no favorable treatment and his interest rate is in accord with the national average.  More recently Dodd has been pressed to answer questions about financial help he has received from friends and political supporters when purchasing homes in Washington and a cottage on 10 acres of land on an Irish island. He said the transactions were approved by the Senate ethics committee.  Still, some neighbors said they are re-evaluating. 'I see him in church,' said Barry Wilson, who is afraid of losing his home after his retirement savings vaporized in the Wall Street collapse. 'He is a very congenial man. But politically, I'm not happy with the political end of it. I have mostly supported him, but I'll have to see what happens with all this. This whole thing from the beginning has not been good.' Brian Collin, a waiter who served Dodd during a political function at the Mohegan Sun casino two years ago, said the events of the past two days have eroded his support. 'I had an opportunity to listen to what he was saying and it made a lot of sense,' Collin said Thursday. 'Then I watched him on television this morning about all these recent developments. He was like a different person. He was not confident in his responses to questions. He looked squirrelly. I'd say my opinion has changed.' Another neighbor, who asked not to be identified, predicted that Republicans will use AIG and the homes to savage Dodd. That, as it turns out, is happening already. National Republicans are distributing 'talking points' in an effort to use the AIG bonuses to make a case that Dodd and the Democrats are pawns of big business.  Former 2nd District Congressman Rob Simmons, a Republican who has announced he will challenge Dodd in 2010, was accusing Dodd Thursday of a flip-flop on AIG, even as Dodd was trying to extinguish the political fire. 'He says one thing one day, one thing another day,' Simmons said. 'Where's the transparency in all of this? The issue of executive compensation is obviously an important issue. ... You would think someone's reading the language of the bill.' Dodd tried to sound confident, saying he expects his neighbors and voters in general to recognize what he characterized as a misunderstanding in the context of his efforts to revive the economy. 'I've spent years working on these issues,' he said. 'Obviously I'll keep working at it. I've got a long record of serving the people of Connecticut  I think well.' 
