Americans give billions of dollars a year to nonprofit organizations that serve the poor, advocate for the disadvantaged, promote arts and education, provide health care and enrich communities in countless other ways. Nonprofits also support millions of jobs; in Florida, they're the fourth-largest employer. When Americans lose their jobs, health care and homes -- as millions have in the current recession -- nonprofits fill in gaps left by government programs. But a short-sighted tax proposal in President Barack Obama's budget, ostensibly targeting the rich, would wind up hitting nonprofits, too. Mr. Obama's budget calls for reducing the value of itemized tax deductions for families earning at least $250,000 starting in 2011, the same year he would allow the Bush tax breaks for those Americans to expire. That would reduce deductions for mortgage interest and state taxes, but also for charitable contributions. The White House estimates that downsizing all those deductions would save $180 billion over the next decade. Under the president's plan, those dollars would help bankroll the burden of expanding health-care coverage. We give Mr. Obama some credit for at least trying to pay for his health-care initiative instead of just adding the full cost to the deficit. But he would do so to the detriment of other good causes. The Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University has projected that the combination of raising tax rates on high-income Americans while lowering their deduction for charitable contributions would have reduced their giving by nearly 5 percent in 2006, the last year for which the necessary data are available. If that sounds like a small share, it adds up to big bucks: $3.87 billion. Consider an individual contributing $1 million to Orlando's performing-arts center: Under current tax law, he or she would be able to deduct $350,000. Under the president's proposal, the deduction would drop $70,000, to $280,000. Mr. Obama's budget director has argued that reducing the deduction for high-income Americans is a question of fairness. Even at the lower rate, they could still deduct 28 percent of their contributions, while middle-income Americans could deduct only 15 percent of theirs, because they fall in a lower tax bracket. What's left out of this argument is the fact that high-income Americans, though a small fraction of taxpayers, account for a disproportionate share of charitable contributions. In 2006, the 2.9 percent of tax returns that reported an adjusted gross income of $200,000 or more accounted for 43.5 percent of itemized charitable-gift deductions, according to the Center on Philanthropy. Scholars seem to be divided over the importance of tax benefits to givers. While there will always be Americans eager to give to nonprofits no matter what the paybacks might be, a Bank of America survey last year found that almost half the respondents would cut their charitable contributions if they didn't get a break from Uncle Sam. Nonprofits in Florida, as a whole, actually have been getting most of their money from the government and from fees they charge than from private contributors, according to a study from the Florida Philanthropic Network. But governments have been cutting back on such funding as the recession bites into their revenues. Some nonprofits, such as those serving youth and providing food and shelter, already depend on grants and private contributions for more than half their budgets. Meanwhile, many individual contributors have less to give as the value of their homes and stock portfolios plummet. This tax proposal from the administration, like others, is banking on an economic recovery by 2011. With financial markets tanking and unemployment soaring, that's far from a safe bet. For all the good they do, nonprofits deserve all the help they can get. Mr. Obama should be looking for ways to encourage, not discourage, Americans to support them.
