) writer of ukiyo-zoshi (tales of the floating world), once described humans as 'greed with hands and feet' in an astute observation of human nature.  'Nothing is more interesting in the world than money,' the novelist also once said. Coming from a family of Osaka merchants, he had an acute understanding of how humans behave when it comes to money.  But even Saikaku would roll over in his grave if he learned of the avarice of Wall Street, the epicenter of the global financial crisis. According to U.S. media reports, American International Group (AIG) Inc., the embattled top U.S. insurance company currently undergoing rehabilitation with a massive government bailout, still plans to pay its executives a total of about 44 billion yen in contractual bonuses.  All in all, public funds used to rescue the company totaled more than 16 trillion yen. All that money came from taxpayers. If normal, right-minded people were to make such a mess, they would be ashamed and reconcile themselves to scaling back and living simply.  But apparently, people on Wall Street think differently. Reports say the highest individual bonus to be paid tops 600 million yen. No better phrase can describe the situation than 'greed with hands and feet.'  Last September, the U.S. government turned its back on securities giant Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and let it go bankrupt. The next day, it extended a helping hand to AIG because the company could not be allowed to go broke because it was too big.  Yet, if a drowning company grabs onto the rubber life ring of public funds to help it stay afloat, it seems obvious that it should exercise moderation.  As might be expected, Americans are livid at the news about the bonuses. Lawrence Summers, director of the National Economic Council, expressed his indignation.  'There are a lot of terrible things that have happened in the last 18 months but what's happened at AIG is the most outrageous,' Summers said.  Immediately after taking office, U.S. President Barack Obama called such self-serving attitudes shameful. He, too, is clearly fuming over the situation.  An old saying goes that lenders always have better memories than borrowers. American society is unlikely to forget the companies it bailed out with taxpayers' money. If AIG is insensitive to public sentiment, support for future injections of public funds will cool and the entire U.S. economy will suffer the backlash.  --The Asahi Shimbun, March 17(IHT/Asahi: March 18,2009)  
