 Staff Writer  Image: newyorkpost.com  A man enters the AIG building in New York City. AIG is returning most of the bailout money it granted to executives.  Feeling less like a roller coaster ride for the past few days, the stock market has been steadily increasing again. However, most of that diminished when the well-known American insurance company American International Group (AIG) distributed most of their bailout money amongst the many executives in the company. In total, these executives were awarded $165 million. Along with the money given out in the U.S., an additional $85 million was allotted to employees in other countries.  I think that the fact that they gave it to employees in other countries is worse than giving it out to employees in the United States, junior Megan Momenzadeh said. You cant get that money back, and that just goes to show how bad the company is.  The government, more specifically U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, issued a request that by Monday at 5 p.m. people who received bonuses needed to make up their mind on whether to return them or not. According to the Attorney General, the people who returned their bonuses would not have their names published.  Junior Nina Garcia feels that the names should be published regardless. They made a huge mistake, and while they might have returned their money, they had to know where it was coming from, and people have the right to know who messed up, she said.  This week the New York State Attorney General Andrew Curono has compiled a list of AIG employees and has been working on getting the employees to pay back their bonuses, beginning with the largest. He has already gotten nine out of the top ten highest paid bonus recipients to return their money.  Out of the $165 million given out, $50 million has already been returned. Curono hopes to recover $80 million of the bonuses, but does not think he will recover those paid overseas because of jurisdiction issues. However, the recipients of the bonuses in London were said to have returned their money without any problems.  I think that what they did is very selfish, senior Noelle Hartzman said. The money is used to help the company, not help their pockets.  In an effort to prevent such problems from happening again, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geither feel that Congress should give the Treasury Department and National Reserve new powers.  If the government had any sort of way of knowing this was going on Im sure that this would not have happened, sophomore Lauren Selleck said. It would have been stopped long before they even considered giving people the money.  Bernanke told members of the House Financial Services Committee that he feels if they had had the authority, they would have put AIG in conservatorship in September when AIGs problems began. The government would have been able to assume control over the companys policies and no bonuses would have been given to anyone. Mr. Bernanke testified that if this had been the case, the outcome would have been far preferable to the situation we find ourselves in now. Bernanke wanted to sue AIG for the bonus payments and to prevent more from going out, but was unadvised to do so. If the lawsuit failed, the government would have had to pay possibly triple the damages in addition to any other money because of a law in Connecticut where their financial headquarters is located.  AIG should be punished for what they did, senior Peter Matlack said. They made a mistake, and continued to further that mistake even more.  The Etownian&gt;&gt; News
