The global financial situation continues to deteriorate and several institutions such as AIG and Citibank have been asking for more government aid.   AIG, the troubled insurance company is getting an additional US$ 30 bn as aid from the government. Infact Ben Bernanke (Federal Reserve Chairman) went to the extent of saying AIG operated like a hedge fund and having to rescue this irresponsible company has made him angrier than any other episode during the financial crisis.  Late last year, AIG had announced severe pay cuts for it CEO, restricting it to a nominal $1 for 2008 and 2009, while there would be no pay hikes for its senior executives in 2009. The stock of AIG is down 99 per cent from its peak to around 35 cents (US $ 0.35) as of Monday.  The legendary Peter Lynch had said in September 2008, I can be just as dumb as anyone else. Incidentally Peter Lynch had both AIG and Fannie Mae in his portfolio, the stocks which dropped by more than 80per cent in just one month.   Similarly Warren Buffet, the worlds revered and best investor also acknowledged the fact of making several mistakes in 2008. The point that I am trying to make is that even the best could not foresee the gravity of the current financial crisis.   The scenario today is far different than what has been in the past and looking at history to provide answers might not help at all. Nobody has any clue where we will land up 6-8 months down the line.  Our own markets have been plagued with several problems right from corporate governance issues to currency woes. To compound the problem further there is a lack of institutional buying that is happening and in fact we have seen a huge outflow by FIIs since February 16, 2009.  Opportunities in the Current Market  The Dow closed at 12 year low on March 5, 2009 and Indian markets might breach the 8000 levels and could witness 7800 levels in the next couple of days or weeks. There now seems to be strong indicators in place that we are headed downwards and there could be more pain down the line.   This will bring us to valuation levels (not index levels) witnessed in 2003 and for people who have missed the bus then, this could once again prove to be a great opportunity.   There is no rush to jump in today but one should certainly look to invest at 8100 or lower Sensex levels as these are mouth watering levels for the long term investor. March 2009 could look a little bit like October 2008.   Surely individual stocks can go down 50 per cent or more, but the broader indices namely the Nifty and Sensex will not go down 50 per cent. If this happens then one should take a significant higher exposure to equity, bypassing other asset classes.
