President Barack Obama has accepted responsibility for bailed-out insurance giant AIGs huge bonus payments, as the companys boss said he has ordered employees to return part of their payouts.  Listen, Ill take responsibility. Im the president, Obama said at a town hall meeting in Costa Mesa, California, where his bid to sell his economic revival policies was swamped by news coverage of the bonus fiasco for a fourth day.  We didnt draft these contracts. Weve got a lot on our plate - but it is appropriate when youre in charge to make sure that stuff doesnt happen like this, he added, amid outrage across the US.  So were going to do everything we can to fix it, the president vowed, after earlier expressing his complete confidence in Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner.  The bonuses, amounting to $165mn, were doled out to the American International Group division at the heart of the companys near collapse and whose intricate dealings with banks worldwide helped ignite the global financial crisis.  Edward Liddy, AIGs government-appointed boss, told lawmakers on Capitol Hill that he was asking the 418 executives who received more than $100,000 each in bonuses to repay half the amount.  Weve heard the American people loudly and clearly these last few days, Liddy told a packed hearing of the House subcommittee on capital markets.  AIG was saved from bankruptcy with an $85bn US government lifeline in September. The bailout has since more than doubled to $180bn.  The insurance giant was rescued because the US government believed its intricate web of ties with banks worldwide posed an imminent risk of financial collapse not just for the US but globally.  AIG informed the US Federal Reserve three months ago that it would pay the bonuses on March 15, but the Fed failed to notify Treasury or White House officials for months, the Washington Post reported yesterday.  Geithner told the Post that he had not been aware of the size of the bonuses and the timing of the payments.  I was stunned when I learned how bad this was on Tuesday (March 10), Geithner told the Post. I shouldnt have been in that position, but its my responsibility and I accept that.  Geithner then briefed a senior White House aide, who informed Obama on March 12, the day before they were paid out, the Post reported.  Liddy, a former chief executive of the Allstate insurance company who took over at AIG in September, said the financial products unit blamed for the groups fall from grace would be shut within four years.  He said the unit is still sitting on $1.6tn in shaky investments that need expertise to unwind - so the company had to accept the cold realities of competition and honour the retention bonuses for senior staff and traders.  That argument was unacceptable to lawmakers, who gave vent to their constituents fury at a time when millions of Americans are living in dread of losing their jobs, homes and health care.  Congressman Paul Hodes said AIG now stands for Arrogance, Incompetence and Greed.  His fellow Democrat Gary Ackerman spoke of a tidal wave of rage sweeping the recession-hit US.  After the day-long grilling, Democrats announced late on Wednesday plans to slap a 90% surtax on bonuses like those given to AIG staff.  The House of Representatives could vote as early as this week on such a measure.  Liddy got a measure of sympathy from Republican Spencer Bachus, who noted the new AIG boss was installed by then-Treasury secretary Henry Paulson for a token salary of $1 a year.  But for most Republicans at the hearing, the real target was secretary Geithner, and by extension Obama, as they railed against ploughing billions of taxpayer money into a series of bailouts - begun by the last, Republican, administration.  Republican members demanded full disclosure of Geithners involvement with AIG in his previous job as head of the New York Federal Reserve, and House Minority Leader John Boehner said the Treasury chief is on thin ice.  Geithner and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke are to appear before the House financial services committee on Tuesday on the mess at AIG, which is now controlled 80% by the US taxpayer.  They have much to explain not only to us, but also to the American people, subcommittee chairman Paul Kanjorski, a Democrat, said at the hearing with Liddy.  
