The  includes jobs like Bering Strait crab fishermen and Pacific Northwest logger. A new contender: AIG executive. After the collapsing insurance giant, which has accepted $170 billion in taxpayer bailout money, announced it was paying out $165 million in bonuses to top employees -- including many in the Financial Products division, the Mordor-like seat of financial evil -- populist rage crescendoed. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said he  to prevent the payments.  of the execs' lavish Connecticut mansions, where some have had to hire private security guards. Sen. Charles Grassley said the lucky execs should '.' You know you're unpopular when a sitting senator wishes hari kari upon you.   But are we beginning to see a backlash against the backlash? Maybe not, but at the very least some of the targets of the fury are beginning to strike back. Last night, , an executive vice president at AIG's reviled Financial Products division, known as AIG-FP, which paints a more nuanced view of the well-compensated execs:  I am proud of everything I have done for the commodity and equity divisions of A.I.G.-F.P. I was in no way involved in  or responsible for  the credit default swap transactions that have hamstrung A.I.G. Nor were more than a handful of the 400 current employees of A.I.G.-F.P. Most of those responsible have left the company and have conspicuously escaped the public outrage.  After 12 months of hard work dismantling the company  during which A.I.G. reassured us many times we would be rewarded in March 2009  we in the financial products unit have been betrayed by A.I.G. and are being unfairly persecuted by elected officials. In response to this, I will now leave the company and donate my entire post-tax retention payment to those suffering from the global economic downturn. My intent is to keep none of the money myself.   I take this action after 11 years of dedicated, honorable service to A.I.G. I can no longer effectively perform my duties in this dysfunctional environment, nor am I being paid to do so. Like you, I was asked to work for an annual salary of $1, and I agreed out of a sense of duty to the company and to the public officials who have come to its aid. Having now been let down by both, I can no longer justify spending 10, 12, 14 hours a day away from my family for the benefit of those who have let me down. I think , 'Are we better off because a skilled trader has left, and his book will now be wound down by someone who doesn't know it, or the markets, as well?' Populist outrage is to be expected and, to a large extent, is justified; but receiving taxpayer money shouldn't preclude a firm from paying its employees. In fact, if we the taxpayers ever want to get paid back, we'll probably have to tolerate an outsized bonus here and there. 
