 I suppose someday a pope will tell us that abortion is acceptable under certain circumstances, contraception is an important part of any birth control plan, and gays are humans deserving of Gods grace in equal measure to everyone else.   Something like that happened today in the business world. Jack Welch, as close as one can get to a living god in corporate America, renounced most of the business practices he once used as CEO of General Electric. Jack Welch was universally esteemed in the 1980s and 1990s as Americas most brilliant and successful manager. He took a sleepy industrial company and made it into an earnings powerhouse by buying and selling subsidiaries as if they were baseball cards. Year after year he produced solid earnings growth, and the GE share price followed suit. People rushed to buy his books and they studied every public word he uttered to benefit from his managerial genius.  He was the inventor of several influential managerial philosophies and techniques:  1) Shareholder Value. Management and employees worked for the shareholders. Rewarding the shareholders with dividends and steady appreciation in the stock price was the foremost responsibility of anybody who worked in the company.  2) Any successful manager should be able to manage quarterly earnings. Jack Welch was superb at this. He generated 15% earnings growth every quarter for years on end. Not only that, but GE always seemed to announce an earnings result that was one or two pennies more than the analysts expected.   3) Any subsidiary of General Electric should be no lower than number three in its industry in terms of sales revenue and profit. If it isnt, it is time to jettison the subsidiary by selling it to someone else.  4) Manufacturing processes should have a six sigma quality control standard. This referred to the statistical concept of standard deviation, and required that the number of flawed products coming off the assembly line should be no more than six standard deviations away from the average. In laymans terms this required a nearly impossible 99.99999% of all products be perfect.   5) Early on in his career Welch introduced Rank and Yank. Once a year all employees were to be ranked by management in terms of performance and potential. The lowest 10% were to be fired. Every year under this policy 10% of all GE employees were to be let go automatically based on these rankings. This was supposed to allow for fresh and more gifted talent to be hired. The impracticality of this process caused it to be abandoned after a few years. It was also considered callous and wasteful, but Jack Welch was not the sort of guy to worry about criticisms like these.  Jack Welch retired at the peak of his game. He was to corporate America what Alan Greenspan was to central banking. His philosophy and practices were emulated around the world. I remember sitting in a board meeting once at a company and listening to another board member  he was himself a CEO of a Fortune 500 company  berate the Chief Financial Officer for not managing earnings properly. The implication was that any idiot could not only produce earnings every quarter, but should be able to meet analyst expectations to the penny per share. By the time this decade rolled around  and this was the case until the depression hit in 2008  over 70% of corporations routinely, quarter by quarter, generated earnings that were a few pennies away from what the analysts on Wall Street expected.  The way Jack Welch produced steady earnings, we know now, was to borrow what he needed every quarter from his finance subsidiary, General Electric Capital, which was always so profitable that it had earnings to spare and in a sense kept a little kitty in reserve for Jack to plunder as necessary. GE Capital was a moneymaker because GE had a Aaa credit rating, and the finance subsidiary could borrow at very cheap rates, cheaper than most banks, and lend at very high rates. It was like being the government.  We also know now that this Aaa arbitrage business was exactly what the giant insurance company AIG was doing through its finance arm, and that blew up in spectacular fashion. GE has seen its earnings collapse due to losses at GE Capital, and its stock has plummeted to $6/share as of last week. The other thing we know, from Bernie Madoff, is there is assuredly something fishy going on at a company that can produce 15% earnings every quarter, year after year. The world just doesnt work this way. It doesnt mean GE was running a Ponzi scheme like Madoff, but it does means Jack Welch was manipulating earnings to produce a particular result.  Welchs apostasy came this morning during an interview with the Financial Times. Welch is quoted as saying On the face of it, shareholder value is the dumbest idea in the world, he said. Shareholder value is a result, not a strategy...Your main constituencies are your employees, your customers and your products.  When have you ever heard a CEO say his main constituency is his employees? This is radical, dangerous, and heretical thinking. It comes after a quarter century in which companies all across the industrial world have treated their employees like cattle. Employees are utterly expendable in this world. They can be fired, dismissed, laid off, made redundant, riffed, downsized, or whatever convenient euphemism management may use, entirely at the whim of the company. Performance, experience, or years at the company are meaningless in this environment.  Shareholders, in the meantime, are to be glorified and worshipped. All endeavors in the company have the goal of increasing shareholder value, which really means making the stock price go up. Never mind that in America the average Fortune 500 company has only 200 shareholders. Yes, thats right. Thats the number of mutual funds which collectively own over 50% of the common shares in the average company. These 200 mutual funds rarely care what management is doing as long as quarterly earnings go up, and Jack Welch certainly found the secret to do just that. Mutual funds may among them control hundreds of millions of shares, but they rarely bother even to send in their proxies to vote on critical issues.  In other words, because a few disinterested mutual funds own a majority of the shares of any corporation, the executives who manage the company are the real controlling parties. They can and do reward themselves with stock options, restricted shares, generous pensions, corporate jets, and golden parachutes (activated in case they are ever dismissed).  For a quarter of a century we have lived through an age where corporate management manipulated earnings, produced a stock market boom, sold subsidiaries and fired or outsourced employees to keep the earnings game going, and in turn plundered the company so that they became multi-millionaires. Jack Welch was at the center of this scheme, its inventor and prime practitioner.  Coincidentally, this morning Standard &amp; Poors stripped General Electric of its Aaa rating. The Jack Welch era is truly over, but he himself refuses to go away. Now he announces that management should put the employee first. As smart a guy as he is, he must know that its going to be another twenty or thirty years before the stock market will reward shareholders in the manner to which they are currently accustomed. He can read the political winds blowing out of Washington. He can sense that someday his estate in his gated community could be under siege by angry crowds with pitchforks.   Knowing all this, Jack Welch can once again be ahead of everybody else. He can be the champion of the employees, at least the ones that havent been fired yet. Hell write books, give speeches, and be all over the television networks, sounding visionary but in truth just trying to redeem his reputation.   Im not buying it. I knew some of the Rank and Yank victims at GE  good people, highly capable, and completely undeserving of a very cynical policy that showed a lack of respect for employees as people. A guy who can invent and implement something as vicious as Rank and Yank doesnt suddenly receive insight and turn into a decent human being.   If employees are ever going to redress 25 years of being abused, deceived and marginalized, they are going to have to improve their situation by themselves. Redemption isnt going to come from elsewhere, certainly not from someone like Jack Welch, whose career has been devoted entirely to himself, his personal fortune, and his media image. Weve suffered a quarter century of narcissists as CEOs. It is time for these guys to leave the stage once and for all, and drag their 'management philosophies' with them. 
