CEO of Bank of America, are among the highest-profile top executives who could lose their jobs because of their companies' woeful performance under their watch.  Corporate chieftains beware: 2009 could be the year of CEO pink slips. Despite presiding over the biggest loss of wealth in corporate history, relatively few top executives in the United States have been pushed out of the corner office.  Ousters are set to escalate this year, however, as company profits dwindle further still, stock prices continue to sink and investors and regulators demand that boards start holding their chief executives more accountable for the mess, according to executive recruiters. 'I think a lot more guys are going to get swapped out in 2009,' said Simon Francis, a senior partner with headhunting firm CTPartners. 'The reason more haven't already is the same reason Bush got re-elected in 2004. Nobody thought he was a great president, but people thought, 'When you're in a foxhole, it's only good to change so much. Let's be loyal and stick with the existing president.' It's only when things get really terrible that people are willing to make a change.' Last year, a total of 1,484 U. S. CEOs were ousted or retired from their posts, compared with 1,356 in 2007 and 1,478 in 2006, according to executive outplacement firm  Part of the reason CEO turnover didn't see a big spike last year is because corporate boards, particularly in the financial sector, have been struggling to try to get their arms around the unprecedented problems facing their companies --and determine what kind of role their CEOs might have played in them. 'First, you have to figure out whether the CEOs were dishonest, whether they were stupid, whether their arrogance took them in the wrong direction, or whether they were doing absolutely the best they could, but the world changed,' said Davia Temin, president of crisis management and financial communications firm Temin &amp; Co. 'Then the question is, when you're showing someone out the door, who are you going to put in his spot? It better be someone better.
