(Updates with comment from House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and House Minority Leader   John Boehner  .)   By   Martin Vaughan  and   Corey Boles  Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES   WASHINGTON -(Dow Jones)- Senate Finance Committee Chairman   Max Baucus  , D- Mont., suggested Tuesday he and other lawmakers will pressure the Internal Revenue Service to impose hefty excise taxes on bonuses paid to executives of  (AIG) that have stirred outrage. 'We need to find out the answer to this question: What is the highest excise tax we can impose that is sustainable in court?' Baucus said to IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman during a hearing Tuesday.  Shulman declined to give a specific answer, saying he couldn't go beyond President Barack Obama's statement on Monday, in which Obama expressed 'outrage' over the bonuses. But Shulman said he recognized the finance committee wants to address the issue of the AIG bonuses, and 'we stand ready for IRS to do what it can.' Sen.   Bill Nelson  , D-Fla., said it may be possible to impose excise taxes as high as 90% on the bonuses.  At issue are $165 million in bonuses paid to employees of AIG's financial- products division, after the U.S. government has poured billions of dollars into AIG to shore up the foundering insurance giant.  House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., said he was unsure whether it would be possible for Congress to draft a law specifically targeted at the AIG executives. He suggested one possibility might be to pass a measure taxing all executives who received taxpayer funds through the Treasury's financial rescue plan.  But, Hoyer said, there was no question in his mind the AIG executives should give the money back, saying if 'they had any common sense at all,' they would. 'If they were at all sensitive to what the American people had done to keep their company afloat ... they would simply give this money back.' Hoyer said all options were on the table, and lawmakers were looking at what actions could be taken, and were in discussions with Obama administration officials over how to proceed to recoup some of the money paid out to the executives.  House Minority Leader   John Boehner  , R-Ohio, reserved his anger for the Obama administration's handling of the AIG situation.  At a press conference Tuesday morning, he questioned why officials agreed to give the beleaguered company a further $30 billion only weeks ago, without ensuring there were sufficient controls in place to limit how the firm used the money. 'I think this is outrageous, and I think the American people are rightly outraged that their tax money is going to pay bonuses to the very people that got this company in trouble,' Boehner said. -By   Martin Vaughan  and   Corey Boles  , Dow Jones Newswires; 202-862-9244; martin.vaughan@dowjones.   (END) Dow Jones Newswires 03-17-091228ET Copyright (c) 2009 Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. 
