Some readers offer a spirited defense of Simon Johnson, the former IMF economist who denounced the political influence of the banks in the current Atlantic Monthly. One writes, I think you are too hard on Prof. Johnson. It surely isnt a conspiracy: its happening right out in front of us in broad daylight. The CEO of Goldman lobbies congress to relax leverage limits in 2002 and, a few years later, the same man, now acting as treasury secretary, solicits nearly a trillion dollars of the publics money to clean up the mess? Thats not conspiracy. Thats raw, gob-smacking cheek, is what that is. I have a feeling that, were you not so close to it and, I dare say, if you hadnt made so much money off of it, you would be writing even more devestating essays about the banks than you currently do about our more excitable friends in the near east. I see your world-weary tone when discussing the crisis as a shield, but one held facing in rather than out, for fear of what you might let yourself write. You should set that shield aside. In fact, I stepped off the carousel in 2005, leaving Bank of America over philosophical differences. I was not asked to leave; I left because I had philosophical objections to the way things were going.Starting in 2006, when I spent a year at Cantor Fitzgerald in a short-lived attempted to create a fixed income research group there, and in 2007, when I was strategist for a hedge fund, I sat in front of Wall Street like the Ancient Mariner, accosting people and warning them of the dangers of leverage driven by structured product. My very first paper for Cantor compared credit structuring to &#8220;Screwtape,&#8221; C.S. Lewis&#8217; talkative Devil. I went on Larry Kudlow&#8217;s show in July 2007 to warn about the &#8220;trillion dollar AAA asset bubble,&#8221; and made numerous media appearances afterwards. Most of my research, to be sure, went to private (paying) clients, but I made sure to summarize my views for the broadest possible audience. I frequently went on Bloomberg radio. You can find all this on the Internet if you so desire. Of course the banks, the Congress and the regulators were corrupt. The trouble is: so was the public. So were the Europeans, and Japanese. It was a global problem: the whole world wanted to throw its savings at the US, and Wall Street stood in the middle of the river and took buckets of commissions. I wrote about it under my &#8220;Spengler&#8221; byline last year under the headline, &#8220;The Monster and the Sausages.&#8221; Now, as a matter of justice, I wouldn&#8217;t mind seeingthe financier caste chucked out and a few of them prosecuted for malfeasance. The trouble is: demonizing the bankers isn&#8217;t going to bring the good times back. Bailing out the banks is an accounting matter. The problems of the US economy and the world economy stem from unprecedented demographic imbalances. They only can be fixed by changing the direction of world capital flows, as I indicated in my previous post. Fixing the banks is the easy part,I wroteJan. 22 in Asia TImes. Therewas a limited set of options as to how to accomplish this, and I bet (correctly as it turned out) that the apparently random walk of administration officials through banking policy would, through the application of pain stimuli, eventually migrate in the direction I had indicated. The fact is that bank equity is virtually wiped out, the banks are beholden to the government, bankers can&#8217;t get paid enough to live in New York City, employment in the industry has shrunk drastically, and the financier caste generally hates life. What I object to in Prof. Johnson&#8217;s article is the notion that if only the banks hadn&#8217;t wielded all that undue influence, things would have been better. That simply is not true. The public was speculating with all the leverage it could obtain, just like the bankers. Leverage was available because of a global savings/investment imbalance ultimately arising from demographic causes. Of course I was unfair to him &#8212; I made fun of him the way an opinion journalist is supposed to. But my point stands. I don&#8217;t want to let the public off the hook by hanging bankers from street lamps. The roots of the crisis go deep, as I argued in my First Things essay, Demographics and Depression.
