Small is the New Big -- Continuing the theme started the other day with How Big is Too Big?, Peter Bregman, in Why Small Companies Will Win in This Economy, writes..."...The gap of confidence between small companies and big ones is growing. We used to rely on the security of big companies. That's why we worked for them. And hired them. And put our money in them."But with the virtual collapse of AIG, Lehman, Citibank, GM, Chrysler, and many more  now even GE is in trouble  all that's changed. Now it's a risk to do business with the big ones."We simply don't trust companies anymore. We trust people. And in big companies, it's hard to even find a person to trust as we scream "operator" into our telephones only to get transferred to another menu whose options have changed."That gives small companies a huge advantage..."Small is the new big. Sustainable is the new growth. Trust is the new competitive advantage..."Read the whole thing.Hmmmm..."Sustainable is the new growth."Reminds me of my old TOC training, in which Goldratt's premise was that the goal of a for-profit company was "to make money now and in the future". The word "more" was not included in that goal, suggesting that staying in business - sustaining the ability to continually satisfy customers and provide employees with security - took precedence over growth for growth's sake. Growth (and "more" money) would come organically if you took care of customers and employees and managed the market and operations according to a constraint-based Process Of On-Going Improvement (POOGI).Just rambling here, but maybe the point is that the risks of growth and size include the eventual lack of ability to shift with economic changes, which then threatens employee security and satisfaction, which, as Bregman suggests, threatens customer satisfaction and confidence, which threatens the ability to make money which threatens employee security and so on. Personally, in my career, with only one exception, my own satisfaction seems to have been inversely proportional to the size of the organization within which I've found myself.
