More from Jim Cramer  Market Activity  Alcoa Incorporated  AA  Apple Incorporated  AAPL  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  With the prospect of GM(GM Quote - Cramer on GM - Stock Picks) filing for bankruptcy looming this week, it might be the moment for the keepers of the Dow Jones Industrial Average to do the housekeeping that we all know is coming. We know they don't allow bankrupt companies in the Dow. We also know they don't like single-digit companies. That means Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks), Citigroup(C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks), and Alcoa(AA Quote - Cramer on AA - Stock Picks) could follow GM out the door.  So four slots are up for grabs. The financials are relatively easy. In place of Bank of America will most likely be Wells Fargo(WFC Quote - Cramer on WFC - Stock Picks), which, at $66 billion --even as it falls rapidly -- still has some heft. The keepers of the Dow could go one of two ways for Citigroup, either choosing to view it as an international banking concern, which would mean that Goldman Sachs(GS Quote - Cramer on GS - Stock Picks) is the pick, or as an international transaction machine, which means Visa(V Quote - Cramer on V - Stock Picks) gets the nod. Both are capitalized at about $48 billion, so that is six of one, a half dozen of the other.  General Motors and Alcoa are tougher. They are industrial companies, but the biggest industrial companies that aren't in the Dow don't really fit the mode. You could add ConocoPhillips(COP Quote - Cramer on COP - Stock Picks) at $68 billion, but then you would have three oils, something you would like to do with oil at $135, not $35. You could choose to think New Economy and pick Google(GOOG Quote - Cramer on GOOG - Stock Picks) at $112 billion or Cisco(CSCO Quote - Cramer on CSCO - Stock Picks) at $89 billion -- both make sense. Apple(AAPL Quote - Cramer on AAPL - Stock Picks), with an $88 billion capitalization, surely belongs in the Dow as a consumer goods play and a tech play. It is a natural. Oracle(ORCL Quote - Cramer on ORCL - Stock Picks), at $74 billion, could fit in if the keepers thought that Google was too new or too concentrated in its holdings. They are all more deserving than Alcoa, believe me. You would be way heavy on tech, but I think that's right, given how representative it is of the economy as we all see it. You could go pure industrial, which would bring back Honeywell(HON Quote - Cramer on HON - Stock Picks), which never should have been kicked out to begin with (like Chevron(CVX Quote - Cramer on CVX - Stock Picks)). Or you could anoint Emerson Electric(EMR Quote - Cramer on EMR - Stock Picks), a true industrial. Maybe it is worth considering Lockheed Martin(LMT Quote - Cramer on LMT - Stock Picks), as there are no pure defense plays.  
