Stocks advanced the most in a month yesterday, halting a six-day decline, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's statement that banks need not be nationalized.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. rose more than 20 percent, sending financial shares in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index to the first advance in eight days, as Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Sheila Bair said large U.S. banks have enough capital.  Home Depot Inc., Macy's Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. climbed at least 10 percent after the retailers reported profit that topped analysts' estimates. All 24 S&amp;P 500 industries advanced as the index rebounded from a 12-year low.  'There's overwhelming value in this market,' said Randy Bateman, who oversees $15 billion as chief investment officer of the asset management unit of Huntington Bancshares Inc. 'If there's any kind of momentum in the market, people want to jump on board.'  The S&amp;P 500 added 4 percent to 773.14 for the biggest rally since Jan. 21. The Dow Jones industrials average increased 236.16 points, or 3.3 percent, to 7,350.94. The Russell 2000 Index of small companies climbed 4.5 percent to 412.48. Ten stocks gained for each that fell on the New York Stock Exchange, the broadest rally since Dec. 16.  The S&amp;P 500 traded for 12.9 times company profits from the past 10 years as of Monday's close, the cheapest valuation since 1986, according to data compiled by Yale University professor Robert Shiller. He uses a decade of earnings to smooth out short-term fluctuations.  The benchmark index for U.S. equities fell Monday to 743.33, the lowest level since April 1997. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. strategist Thomas Lee issued a 'trading buy' recommendation, with a short-term forecast of 800 for the index.  Elliott Wave International Inc.'s Robert Prechter, who advised shorting U.S. stocks three months before the bear market began, said investors should end that bet. He warned of a 'sharp and scary' rebound for anyone still wagering on a retreat, according to this month's 'Elliott Wave Theorist.' Prechter is famous for cautioning that stocks would crash two weeks before the Black Monday retreat in 1987.  Citigroup gained for a second day, adding 22 percent to $2.60. Bank of America increased 21 percent to $4.73. Both stocks tumbled more than 31 percent last week on speculation the government would seize them, wiping out shareholders.  The S&amp;P 500 rallied to its highs of the day after Bernanke told lawmakers that the government's bank-capitalization plan was designed to shore up lenders only if the worsening economy created more losses.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index is known, slumped 14 percent to 45.49 for the biggest drop in a month. Lower readings mean investors are paying less for insurance against declines in the S&amp;P 500.  'Given that we've had a significant sell-off, it's usually followed by a recovery,' said Alan Gayle, a senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management. 'We still have a lot more work to do to establish a solid base for the equity market.'  Officials will start evaluating about 20 of the nation's largest banks tomorrow to see if they have enough capital to withstand the deepening recession.  Only American International Group Inc. fell among stocks in the S&amp;P 500 measure of banks, brokerages and insurers.  
