Traders kept their eyes glued on Capitol Hill Monday as the debate over a stimulus intensified and word spread about a four-part plan by the Treasury to help ailing banks and financial institutions. To see a complete rundown on the news and events that impacted todays trading session see our market story.  Just like previous weeks, news about the size and shape of the stimulus plan impacted the shares of bellwethers like Bank of America (BAC). That stock, plus others in the space like General Electric (GE) and Citigroup (C) saw their shares advance. That had a direct impact on financial ETFs, making them some of the days biggest gainers.  However, the stimulus plan also impacted decliners. Some traders were concerned a large stimulus could bring about inflation. As Republicans trimmed the plans price tag over the weekend, that concern seemed to ebb during Mondays session. Gold, a hedge against inflation, dropped.  Debate over inventories and demand sunk the price of oil under the $40 a barrel mark. Bears believe the stimulus plan wont drive U.S. demand for more crude.  Insurance, industrials and paper led all sectors while utilities brought up the rear.  The resurgence of financial stocks drove the SPDR KBW Bank ETF (KBW) 1.9% higher. That gain was mostly due to a 12% uptick in Bank of America shares. That optimism also spread to the SPDR KBW Insurance ETF (KIE). It gained 2.6%.  Gold closed down $16.30 at $898 an ounce, knocking the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF (GDX) down 3.2%. A mixed day in Asian markets hit country-specific exchange-traded funds, leaving iShares MSCI South Korea (EWY) and iShares MSCI Taiwan (EWT) down 2.6% and 1.8%, respectively.  Mondays Industry Headlines  Launching Pad  Discount brokerage Charles Schwab (SCHW) has filed an application with the Securities and Exchange Commission to create exchange-traded funds. In documents submitted late last month, it said it sought to create a fund that tracks Dow Jones U.S. Total Stock Market Index, which covers all publicly traded U.S. stocks. It plans to create other stock-based exchange-traded funds but did not describe them in further detail.  Tuesdays Notebook  Earnings and Conference Calls  Agilsys, Ameristar Casinos, Applied Materials, Bob Evans Farms, CB Richard Ellis Group, CF Industries, Corrections Corp. of America, Coventry Health Care, Cray, DirecTV Group, Genworth Financial, Kubota, Molson Coors Brewing, NetSuite, Nvidia, Pepsi Bottling, ProLogis, Qwest Communications, Terra Industries, UBS, Unisys  Economic Data  7:45 a.m. ICSC Chain Store Sales  8:55 a.m. Redbook Retail Sales  10:00 a.m. Dec. Wholesale Trade  4:30 p.m. API Oil Industry Report  Quick Take  A look at how the industry's most popular ETFs did on Monday.  10 Largest ETFs  
