U.S. financial stocks fell sharply Thursday, led by big declines in banks, amid investor concerns that the group will need to raise more capital. Investors are again losing confidence that the government and industry will be able to come up with a plan to solve the banking crisis, and they are expecting continued losses and stresses at banks. That, in turn, implies that banks will need to raise more capital that would dilute current shareholders. Research released Thursday by analysts at Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods suggested that the 11 banks with at least $100 billion in assets that they cover would need to raise at least $116 billion. That amount is based on a tangible common equity ratio of 4.5% to 5% for money-center banks and 5.5% to 6.5% for regional banks, Keefe Bruyette said. 'In this analysis, we note that all of these companies would require additional common equity and/or a dividend reduction to meet Keefe Bruyette's targeted cycle end tangible common equity ratios,' the research report said. The analysts stressed that their estimates are at the severe end of the spectrum and that there are some mitigating factors, including sales of bank assets and certain exceptions from regulators that could mitigate the need for selling common equity. Among U.S. banks, Regions Financial (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) lost 9%, while Fifth Third (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 11%. Shares of Wells Fargo (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) dropped 9%, and J.P. Morgan (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) declined 7%. Bank of America (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shed 7%, and Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) was off 6%. The Financial Select Sector SPDR (XLF:XLF Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which tracks all the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, fell 4.5%. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
