Save and Share  There is a smug tendency among fund managers to patronise their clients. Buyers of unit trusts have been accused of many things, but prime among them is that they dont buy enough products based on shares. This drives fund managers mad, because they earn most of their money from managing share portfolios.  And so it was again this week, when the Association for Savings &amp; Investment SA (Asisa) trundled out the usual insults to the intelligence of common folk. People were ignoring the long- term performance of the JSE, they said, in favour of parking their cash in the money market. This was unforgivably stupid and short-sighted.  A charitable view would hold that the industry body has consumers best interests at heart. Surely, as they said, any fool could see that buying and holding shares was the best way to see through the current bear market.  A more jaundiced eye would applaud unit trust holders for their sharp footwork. Mainly for pulling out of the JSE and keeping their powder dry. Their losses, accounting for the erosion of inflation, have been minimal compared to the poor sods who accepted best advice and tried to ride through the storm of the past year.  Anyway, its an old argument. The asset managers and their industry bodies will always try to convince you that time in the market is better than timing the market  which is true, up to a point. However, there are other old hands who will tell you that theres never been a better time to sell, which may well also be true.  The main guy in charge at Asisa, Leon Campher, is a grizzled veteran of the fund management industry. One would hate to term him a cynic. After all, he calls himself an unrehabilitated stock market bull. However, given the shocking state of global equities  and, indeed, the trepidation with which big fund managers like Stanlib and Old Mutual are approaching stocks  there is much to be said for avoiding the JSE at all costs. You just wont hear those words said very loudly by the likes of Asisa.  People with money to burn, on the other hand, seem all too keen to flash their wads at the horde of eager fund managers out there. Were talking those rich enough to afford to be able to use their foreign exchange allowances to invest offshore.  Among this crowd, according to Asisa data, equities have been a shoo-in favourite over the past 12 months. Are these people more clever than the rest of us? Or are they just that more likely to give their advisers and fund managers the latitude to do what suits them best?  South African stocks surged on Friday, boosted by Thursdays aggressive local interest rate cut and by hopes for a US stimulus package, while the rand firmed to a one-month high. The JSE Top 40 index of blue-chip stocks climbed 5.62% to 19425 points, the biggest percentage session gain in two months, and the All Share index rose 4.89% to 21436 points.  Reuters  Anticipation ahead of a bank bail-out plan expected on Monday pushed US stocks sharply higher on Friday. Bank of America jumped more than 20% and JPMorgan shares gained 8%. The Dow Jones industrial average added 175 points, or 2.18%, to 8238 in afternoon trade.  The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was up 2%, recording a gain of 3.8% for the week.  Reuters  
