The prices of stocks, real estate, and currencies are plunging across the board amid the devastating effects of the financial tsunami. Even HSBC, the favorite of Hong Kong investors, has 'sunk' like the Titanic, giving many middle-class citizens the investment blues.  But there is one commodity that has defied the odds and done well - gold - which has surged past the US$1,000 (HK$7,800) per ounce barrier. 'Gold bugs' have therefore become the only handful of investors fortunate enough to see their assets grow, while other people's assets shrink incredibly.  So when I recently bumped into 'Gold King Jr' Henry Wu King-cheong, owner of Lee Cheong Gold Dealers, our conversation naturally turned to gold price trends.  Wu's company plays the role of a middleman in gold trading. The ups and downs of gold prices have little effect on the firm's profit, hence the price of gold is not a usual subject for Wu to comment on.  Nevertheless, he observed that unlike last year, when gold prices soared and retreated quickly, the latest rise has been incremental and steady - indicative of a more prolonged upward trend.  The recent bullish performance of gold has piqued the interest of investors, but buying at the current price level may be risky, as the trend could reverse itself at the drop of a hat.  An expert in this area offered some useful tips to deal with this dilemma. The expert noted that gold prices fluctuated when the US bank stocks index dropped last year. Yet, when the inde  x fell to a new low last week on rumors of major US banks, such as Citibank, being nationalized, gold prices shot up.  Traditional wisdom links gold prices to inflation and the state of the economy, rising with inflation, and falling in a recession. Recent gold price movements have, however, gone against this pattern because capital is seeking refuge in gold, as the banking systems of developed countries are on the brink of complete collapse. Hence, gold is bullish.  Against such a backdrop, gold investors should watch the bank stocks closely. When US bank stocks rebound from hitting bottom, the expert said, it's time to exit from gold and take your profit.  Siu Sai-wo is chief editor of Sing Tao Daily  
