,  BAC ,  C ,  JPM (Cramer's Pick) ,  MCD ,  GM ,  AXP ,  GE  Do We Get to Find Out Now?  The Dow tripped a bit early Monday, but recently the index rebounded to the flat line as traders awaited some actual detail on the Senate stimulus plan and Tim Geithner's bank bailout. With the week just two hours old, the Dow was down 11 points at 8270.  Financials were mixed. Bank of America (BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) was up 12%, and Citigroup (C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) was adding 3.6%, but American Express (AXP Quote - Cramer on AXP - Stock Picks) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM Quote - Cramer on JPM - Stock Picks) were slightly lower.  More on BAC  Market Activity  American Express Company  AXP  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  The Dow finished last week in positive territory -- a little short-covering, some hope about the government's next rescue attempt helping out -- but whether that advance will be sustained is pure guesswork.  Will the new administration's approach turn things around? Maybe, though it's not a stretch to expect that no matter what proposals emerge this week, Wall Street won't necessarily like it. Traders can be a tough bunch to please. Still, even if that proves to be the case, what we need now is some clarity. That will be a major step in the right direction. How much will be spent and on what? What can banks expect in terms of guarantees and timely aid?  Investors are going to eventually adapt to whatever comes out of Washington. Let's just get it soon and move on from there.  (Do you believe the government's plans will work? Vote in our poll to let us know what you think.)  Are you optimistic that the government's stimulus and bank-bailout plans will turn the economy around in 2009?  Yes  No  As for other Dow stocks in the news, McDonald's (MCD Quote - Cramer on MCD - Stock Picks) said global same-sales rose 7.1% in January. Systemwide sales were up 2.6% for the month, or 9.1% holding currency rates steady. Following the announcement, shares were up 0.9%.  
