Stocks today extended last week's gruesome performance, with the major market indices plummeting right out of the gate this morning. Investors were dismayed by the New York Fed's latest Empire State Manufacturing index, which fell to a record low of negative 34.7 in February from January's reading of negative 22.2. Within the report, 51% of respondents noted that business conditions worsened. Elsewhere, auto anxiety also weighed on traders' minds, with  and Chrysler LLC scheduled to submit their survival plans to the Treasury Department after the market's close. Against this backdrop, the Dow found itself on a quick trip back to its late-November lows.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA - 7,552.60) eventually settled within pennies of its Nov. 20 closing price, which marks the Dow's lowest daily close within the current bear market. The blue chips shed nearly 298 points, or 3.8%, with the 7,550 level providing an intraday floor. Of the Dow's 30 components, . Among the 29 declining issues, Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C), General Motors, and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) set the pace, with each equity shedding more than 12% for the day.  The S&amp;P 500 Index (SPX - 789.17) didn't fare any better, plummeting 38 points, or 4.6%. The SPX endured its first daily close south of 800 since Nov. 20. The Nasdaq Composite (COMP - 1,470.70) rounded out Wall Street's dismal day with a loss of 64 points, or 4.2%. Unlike its fellow major market indices, though, the COMP is trading comfortably above its Nov. 20 nadir of 1,316.10.   Turning to equities in focus, Google Inc. (GOOG) led the tech-sector laggards after a  ... Trina Solar (TSL) announced that  will exceed its previous forecast ... Deere &amp; Co. (DE) gapped lower after a Goldman Sachs  ... Teva Pharmaceutical Industries (TEVA) defied the day's selling pressure after a  ...  on Vale (RIO) as the Brazilian firm prepares to report earnings ... and today's Quote of the Day comes from Ramona Singer, one of the stars of Bravo's reality series The Real Housewives of New York City. Singer told Fox News that she is battling the recession by making  in her otherwise-lavish lifestyle: 'What was hard for me was giving up my live-in maid five days a week.' But these weren't the only headlines hitting the Street today. Click on the links below for our Daily Market Blog coverage of:    and  And, in case you missed it, Andrea Kramer examined the topic of calendar debit spreads in this week's edition of Advanced Options Strategies. Click here to watch.  For today's activity in crude oil, gold futures, options, and more, turn to page 2.  Oil futures followed suit with the equities market today, as the March contract attracted heavy selling pressure amid fresh economic concerns. The dismal data from the New York Fed sparked worries about an extended contraction in the economy, effectively dashing any glimmer of hope investors may have gleaned from last month's stronger-than-expected Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index. By the close, crude oil for March delivery shed $2.58, or 6.9%, to finish at $34.93 per barrel. The more heavily traded April contract, which will assume front-month status next week, dropped $3.10 to close at $38.54 per barrel.  Conversely, gold futures were buoyed by the panic on Wall Street. The popular inflationary hedge and safe-haven investment rallied today as investors flocked toward low-risk assets en masse. Gold for April delivery tacked on $24.30, or 2.6%, to finish at $967.50 per ounce. Earlier, the contract touched an intraday peak of $975.40 an ounce, marking its highest price since July 22.  Levels to Watch in Trading:  Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA - 7,552.60) - support at 7,500; resistance at 9,000 S&amp;P 500 Index (SPX - 789.17) - support at 750; resistance at 1,000  Nasdaq Composite (COMP - 1,470.70) - support at 1,300; resistance at 1,750  A bull? A bear? Conservative? Aggressive? No matter what kind of investor you are, option trading offers you tools to enhance and protect your portfolio. Learn how from Bernie Schaeffer, the highly respected equities and option market veteran. Bernie's home study course will show you how to leverage relatively small amounts of capital into big profits -- in just 10 days. Includes CD, DVD, and other extras. .  The blue-chip barometer fell to its prior bear-market bottom, led lower by financials
