aig executives    aig executives aig vacation AIG Executives Visit Posh Retreat After Bailout  aig executives fox news. Lawmakers criticized American International Group executives for lavish spending aig executives bonnie bernstein. Henry Waxman, chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, said Tuesday that AIG executives spent about $400,000 during a retreat at a posh California resort. The spa getaway happened less than a week after the government bailed out the insurance firm aig executives aig resort. Former AIG executives face harsh questions . One particular point of contention during the hearing before a U aig executives lehman brothers ceo punched.S. government committee was a retreat that AIG General held only a week after the government extended its $85 billion loan last month. AIG executives live it up days after bailout  aig executives aig resort. AIG executives escaped to a pricey California beach resort to unwind just days after the insurance giant was rescued by an unprecedented $US85 billion government loan, lawmakers said. AIG executives follow bailout with stay at resort  aig executives aig vacation. Less than a week after the federal government had to bail out American International Group, the company sent executives on a $440,000 retreat to a posh California resort, lawmakers investigating the company's meltdown said Tuesday.  Congress scolds former AIG executives over crisis  aig executives aig party. Executives at American International Group Inc. hid the full range of its risky financial products from auditors as losses mounted, according to documents released Tuesday by a congressional panel examining the chain of events that forced the government to bail out the conglomerate aig executives fox news.    The panel sharply criticized AIG's former top executives, who cast blame on each other for the company's ... AIG Executives Testify in Washington 10/7/08 CBS 7 Staff October 7, 2008  aig executives aig vacation. Congress is looking for answers into what went wrong on Wall Street. This morning, three former AIG executives went in front of a house committee. Lawmakers want to know how the sub-prime mortgage debacle spiraled into disaster for AIG aig executives aig 400 000. Congress scolds former AIG executives over crisis  aig executives aig scandal.  Executives at American International Group Inc aig executives aig junket. hid the full range of its risky financial products from auditors as losses mounted, according to documents released Tuesday by a congressional panel examining the chain of events that forced the government to bail out the conglomerate aig executives aig $400 000. Bush spokeswoman 'outraged' by AIG junket  aig executives aig vacation.  President George W aig executives aig 400 000. Bush's chief spokeswoman expressed outrage Wednesday at reports that AIG executives spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on a spa retreat after the US government rescued the firm aig executives aig scandal. White House calls AIG executives' $440,000 retreat 'despicable'  aig executives aig vacation.  WASHINGTON: The White House said today  it was ''despicable'' that American International Group Inc. executives spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on a posh California retreat just days after getting a federal bailout. AIG's 'retreat' for executives with $23K in spa treatments evokes criticism . Days after it got a federal bailout, American International Group Inc aig executives aig vacation. spent $440,000 on a posh California retreat for its executives, complete with spa treatments, banquets and golf outings, according to lawmakers investigating the insurance company's meltdown.      aig executives aig vacation, aig vacation     
