do stuff like this:http://voices.washingtonpost.com/washingtonpostinvestigations/2008/10/after_bailout_aig_execs_took_4.htmlAIG Executive Retreat Irks Lawmakers POSTED: 04:26 PM ET, 10/ 7/2008 by Derek Kravitz TAGS: Wall Street, federal government, finance   A few days after the federal government unveiled an $85 billion bailout package for the insurance company AIG, executives from one of the firm's subsidiaries went on a week-long retreat to the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, Calif. The tab: $443,000.  "I was totally unaware that there was any plan for any conference," AIG's ex-CEO, Robert B. Willumstad, said today during his testimony before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. "Had I been aware of it I would have prevented it from happening."  When the retreat event was first noticed five days ago by The Orange County Register, a company spokesman noted that the conference included recognition for "vital independent agents who distribute AIG American General's products -- insurance for individuals and businesses. AIG American General -- a subsidiary of parent AIG -- is in much, much better financial shape than AIG itself."  "It's one of our viable businesses," spokesman Joseph Norton told the Register's "OC Watchdog" blog. "They're fully capitalized. They're fine. It wasn't a corporate kind of thing."  Rebukes about the expensive retreat were just one aspect of a broad congressional hearing into AIG today, but it showed the level of distrust and political angst by lawmakers who have been pressed by constituents to take corporate executives to task for the financial crisis.  "Well, average Americans are suffering economically. They're losing their jobs, their homes and their health insurance," said Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), the panel's chairman. "Yet less than one week after the taxpayers rescued AIG, company executives could be found wining and dining at one of the most exclusive resorts in the nation."The Tuscan-style luxury resort sits atop a bluff overlooking the Pacific Ocean and features a private beach club with "surf butlers," three swimming pools and a championship golf course, according to its Web site.  Most of the attendees at the convention between Sept. 22 and Sept. 30 stayed in premium "pool view" rooms at the 400-room hotel, with 47-inch LCD TVs and marble bathrooms furnished with a "Deep Roman" bath and shower. The rate: $375 per night.   The group also booked 17 "ocean view" rooms, at $425 each, and one "presidential suite," discounted from its usual $3,200 a night to $1,600.  Another $9,982 was spent on food and drinks at the StoneHill Tavern, the Monarch Bayclub, in-room dining and the lobby lounge; $6,939 on golf; $1,488 at the Vogue Salon; and $1,450 on no-show and cancellation fees.   An invoice dated Oct. 3 said AIG still owed the resort $40,543 in charges after a $402,701 deposit.  The itemized bill does not show what executives specifically ordered at the spa and salon, but a look at the hotel's spa menu (PDF) shows 75-minute "intuitive massages" at $215 a pop (most of the executives spent $210 each for a spa treatment on Sept. 25) and men's and women's haircuts and styles starting at $50 and $75, respectively.   Executives also spent $147,302 on banquets at the hotel and $23,380 at the Spa Gaucin, which features three-story waterfalls and a "Well of Desires, where symbolically all your cares will be left behind."  It's unclear whether any of the AIG executives tossed a spare coin in the well.
