By Kurt Eckert Little Katie Eros from Forest Grove loves all animals, and she wants to make it a better world for pets even if she has to help them one at a time. Father Terry said 8-year-old Katie came home from ballet last summer and told him she wanted to raise money to buy a new ballistic vest for a police dog. &amp;#8220;She just blew me away when she first told me about it,&amp;#8221; Terry said. Animal Planet, Katie&amp;#8217;s favorite channel, reminded kids that police dogs are pets too, she said. In a flier, she asks the community to support efforts to purchase a vest for Hudson, the newest canine in training with the Washington County Sheriff&amp;#8217;s Office. Hudson&amp;#8217;s human partner is Deputy Ryan Garrick. Both are undergoing intense training at the Oregon K-9 academy in Portland. Police dogs are specially selected for their demeanor and are trained to protect citizens by strictly following their handler or partner&amp;#8217;s commands. After training, Hudson will live and work with Garrick full time. Often K-9 teams share a unique relationship that continues even after one or both of them decide to hang it up. Deputies are sometimes forced to unleash canine partners when a criminal suspect becomes unruly. The dogs are often punched, kicked or even shot at during the performance of their duties. Police dogs deserve the best in protection, and the vests can prevent over 70 percent of injuries police dog officers receive in the line of duty, Katie says. The ballistic vests cost about $2,100 each, but Katie recently decided she would try to help out other needy animals as part of her marketing campaign to help Hudson. The Washington County Animal Services and Bonnie L. Hays Small Animal Shelter, 1901 SE 24th Ave., in Hillsboro, provides care and protection for thousands of homeless, unwanted, abandoned and abused or neglected dogs and cats. Call 503-846-7041 for adoption information. Katie hopes to raise a total of $5,000 to help out the sheriff&amp;#8217;s office. All of the money will go to purchase ballistic vests or to equip or train the canine teams, Terry said. Donations to the fundraiser can be made at the shelter, at the Hillsboro Argus, 150 SE Third Ave., the sheriff&amp;#8217;s office at 215 SW Adams St., or at any local US Bank Branch.  Link Posted in Uncategorized&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;Tagged: ballistic  K9 vest, eros, forest grove, washington county sheriff's office&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;     
