Pinoys to make money easily in year of the Ox   By Ma. Stella F. Arnaldo / Special to the BusinessMirrorEASY come, easy go.This is the overall reading for the Philippines in the Year of the Ox by renowned geomancer Joseph Chau of the Mandarin Oriental, Manila. The location of the Philippines is in the wealth and prosperity direction [southeast], he said in his press conference on Wednesday; thus, Filipinos in general will have an easy life in 2009. But he cautions that even if they can earn money with no difficulty this year, you know what they say, easy come, easy go. Mandarin Orientals annual Chinese New Year festivities will be held at 10 p.m. on January 25.With metal as one of the dominant elements this year, the banking and financial industry will be most lucky in the Year of the Ox. The banking business will grow, Chau says, citing Citibank as one of the banks that will see its luck turn in the New Year. I guarantee it! the geomancer stressed this aloud as Citibankers sat in the audience. The bank is cosponsoring Mandarin Orientals Chinese New Year celebration.Last November the US Federal Reserve agreed to bail out Citigroup, also hit by the subprime-mortgage crisis, providing it $20 billion in credit to protect the banks $300 billion in loans and securities from losses.Other lucky businesses in 2009 are electronics, telecommunications, petroleum, gas, tourism and airlines. Not so lucky are real estate, construction, and the garment industries, which Chau describes as merely stable, as he recognized the impact of the US recession on these local businesses.He made a special appeal to the Department of Tourism to continue promoting the Philippines to be able to take advantage of the Philippines luck in the tourism business. Just this week, the New York Times listed Boracay, Philippines, as one of the 44 Places to Go to in 2009. He warns journalists, however, to be more circumspect in writing their stories. Be careful what you write; there are some things you can say, and sometimes, some things that you have to be silent about. Think first before you write.The Philippines has, on the whole, had a good run since 2004 because the country is in a hot tropical area. With the red earth as the dominant element in the Year of the Earth Ox, which officially begins on February 4 to February 3, 2010, the country will keep prospering.2009 will also be a good year for the chief resident in Malacaangsame as in the Year of the Ratbecause, Chau says, the Palace is in a good location. He believes that President Arroyo will be able to bring more business to the Philippines, especially in the area of trade.  Last year, Chau said while the President was lucky because Malacaang Palaces gates faced the lucky southeast direction, a sickness star was hovering above the Northwest where the Palace is located, thus making its residents prone to illness. Last November, First Gentleman Mike Arroyo was hospitalized after suffering severe abdominal pains, which doctors later said were due to infectious diarrhea. Even President Arroyo experienced an upset stomach sometime in August, forcing her to cancel her appointments.As for US President-elect Barack Obama, Chau says he will have good luck in 2009. He will try his best to recover the economic situation. But this is hard for just one man to do. Obama was born in the Year of the Ox, and will be influenced by the planet Jupiter, making him very powerful. But sometimes he will be overpowerful, so he must humble himself and listen to advice. He sees the US economy fully recovering in three years.The geomancer chose to look at the Lehman Brothers debacle and the subprime-mortgage crisis in the US as a positive, assuring those affected that they lost money but earned their wealth in return. If they lost their health instead, they wouldnt be able to earn money.So those who were not financially fortunate in 2008 would be able to recover what was lost. Since Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy last September, rumors have been circulating about several old-rich families in the Philippines who saw as much as 40 percent of their wealth wiped out, as they were heavily exposed to the investment bank and other similar institutions affected by the subprime- mortgage crisis.Those born in the Year of the Ox are considered generally unlucky this year, as they offend the Grand Duke (Tai Suey), along with those born in the Year of the Goat, Horse, and Dog. Lucky signs are the Rat, Tiger, Snake, Monkey, and Rooster. The most compatible to the Ox is the Rat, but because of the presence of the romantic star, they should be careful not to fall into temptation, Chau says, referring to the possibility of extramarital affairs. The romantic star, also called the wedding star, makes it a good year for relationships, either in business or love.Meanwhile, those born under the Year of the Dragon are considered both lucky and unlucky this year. While it has lucky stars, it is in conflict with the Ox, thus, this luck is canceled, Chau explains.The young generation, or those between 18 and 40 years old, will be most affected by the Year of the Ox. If you are head of a company, you have to be careful about signing contracts. Dont work for fast success or you will fall into a big trap.With the disaster star hovering in the North, Chau warns young men to be always on their guard, avoid going home late and any water activities. It will also be easy to get into arguments.  Young women, on the other hand, are pushed to become friendlier and put more effort to please your boss.To enhance ones luck, step out of the house or your office, and walk toward the southeast direction before going on your way.
