Utilization of Paralegals is obviously something Ive been advocate of as a practitioner before becoming a full-time educator and certainly over the past 13 plus years Ive been associated with the American Bar Association approved Paralegal Post-Degree Certificate and Associates Degree programs at Illinois Central College. An article I wrote a few years back on this topic was initially presented in the Illinois State Bar Associations Law Office Economics newsletter and subsequently reprinted in other ISBA section and committee publications. Its a no brainer, especially in this economy, properly utilized, Paralegals can improve the lawyer or law firms bottom line while saving the client legal fees for work that may otherwise be but is just as competently and efficiently performed by a properly supervised paralegal. It gets back to the example I use most often. How many times have you gone to your family physician only to have most of the work up performed by a Nurse Practitioner or Physicians Assistant? Just as the Doctor is freed up to focus on more serious matters and medical costs kept in check by use of these individuals, Lawyers are freed up to focus on the work only a he or she is permitted by law to undertake and clients can expect legal fees that reflect a competent person performing many tasks a lawyer would otherwise perform at a reduced rate or fee.The major hurdle I find and try to assist lawyers in overcoming is how to utilize a paralegal in their particular area of practice. The American Bar Association has provided a resource in this regard for several years and I have often shared that resource with lawyers seeking to implement use of a paralegal in their practice. The ABA resource in a downloadable pdf file can be found here.A second valuable resource is found on the Colorado Bar Association website. Illinois seems to be typically behind the curve in so far as recognizing, implementing and supporting developments related to the administration of justice and providing legal services. There have been several requests and suggestions that Illinois form a committee to promote and possibly regulate Paralegals, but beyond discussions of how that approach might fuel additional fees for a currently cash strapped state government, there hasnt been much interest. Regardless, as lawyers change their ways because they are either mandated to do so or they see the opportunity for increased profit, it appears from placement of graduates and visits to central Illinois law offices that the utilization of Paralegals in Illinois has kept up with, if not exceeded, national trends.With those thoughts in mind and an expectation that well continue to see increased use of Paralegals in many practice areas, I offer this link to the Colorado Bar Association resource. The CBA committee should be commended for both the content and organization of this resource. Merely find and click on the link related to your practice area and you have the opportunity to review their suggestions for utilization of paralegals in that area of practice. Justice Weighed Here This site is presented as a forum for the Lawyers, Paralegals  and Criminal Justice Professionals of Central Illinois, and especially those  students, graduates, friends and supporters of the  Paralegal and Criminal Justice Programs at Illinois Central College.  at Illinois Central College.
