Q.) How do you blow all your money in a day?A.) Invest in a company called Satyam.Over the last few weeks we had the Satyam saga unfolding in front of us.A company which was the recepient of the prestigious "Golden Peacock" award for corporate world with over 2 billion dollars in the bank as reserves decided to buy Maytas infrastructure in a surprise move which smack of the promoter misusing company funds.But the investors and market baulked, tanking down the share price. The management reneged on the deal but the damage had been done. The share prices were so low that a takeover seem imminent. A large number of shares were being bought by two or three companies.Then one morning the promoter writes a letter saying all the cash reserves were imaginary and the books had been cooked for decades..It was over.The prices went below the face value. In one mement all the talk of the IT sector as a shining example of corporate governance was over.So now as the investigators pick through the debris, I wonder how will SATYAMgate affect the Indian IT outsourcing industry.Now some people beleive it will scare companies away from India and its all doomed.I beg to differ.Satyamgate is nothing more than Enron for India. Or maybe a Madoff.Its a bad scandal but it just shows  mighty are greedy and weak.Unlike what Heena says on her blog, call-centers are just a small part of the out sourcing story. The bigger picture is in IT where new development, testing and more importantly maintenance projects are being handled by big IT companies like Infosys, Wipro, etc.Maintenace especially cannot be stopped or easily shifted to others. So the thing is projects will stay. We save a lot of money for the companies which as Bank of America's chairman said allows them to expand around the world.And today the indian IT industry has built up an expertise which cannot be easily matched.Also  SATYAMs demise is other IT companies gain as client  will shift. I can tell you some have been gained even when there is no active poachingThe situation is bad because of recession but its not  apocalyptic.On a random noteBush Tours America To Survey Damage Caused By His Disastrous Presidency
