Are General Electric shares a good deal? With share prices beaten down, is GE stock the bargain of a lifetime or a stock to avoid? Stephen Manning, AP Business Writer Monday March 9, 2009, 5:20 pm EDT WASHINGTON (AP) -- General Electric Co. was long trusted as the gold standard of safe investing. Retirees loved its dividend -- which hadn't been cut since the Great Depression -- and cautious stock pickers admired its arsenal of goods that people bought, even in bad times. Now, due largely to problems in its finance unit, shares of GE trade around $7, down 76 percent in the past year, and nearly 90 percent since their peak in 2000. The stock's plummet traces a year of disappointments for this blue-chip stalwart: a surprise slowdown in earnings, the first dividend cut in more than 70 years and an industrial powerhouse struggling with some of the same problems as Wall Street banks. And yet, GE still makes light bulbs and jet engines and plenty of tangible things that people need to buy. So is GE stock the bargain of a lifetime, or a case of buyer beware? If you consider GE first and forecast a big industrial company -- maker of everything from home appliances to ultrasound machines -- its stock trades at a slight discount to peers. That's based on its price-to-earnings ratio -- a common measure for how investors value a company's earnings power. But if you see GE as a financial company, there are plenty of reasons to worry. Its big lending arm, GE Capital, is facing the threat of unpaid loans, sharply lower earnings, and even bigger losses on its balance sheet. That's what's driving the stock down. "I am in a position to buy, but with the consistent price declines, I am a little hesitant to catch the falling knife," said Eric Boyce, a portfolio manager at Hester Capital Management in Austin, Texas. Here's why GE's shares look like a bargain: --Last year, GE's profits topped $18 billion, even as the biggest recession in more than 20 years pummeled the bottom lines of other industries like finance, steel, retail and home builders. Those earnings ranked as GE's third best in its 130 years of existence. And it may yet squeeze out a profit in 2009. --So even though investors have sold off GE as if it were financial stock, it's not posting the big losses at banks such as Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. And for now, it's still one of just six companies out of about 1,700 that hold a mark of safety -- an 'AAA' rating from the Standard &amp; Poor's ratings agency. --GE says its industrial businesses' earnings may grow up to 5 percent this year, even in a huge recession. GE's backlog of orders totals $172 billion for infrastructure projects, an area President Obama touts as a top priority for reviving a beaten down economy. Some analysts say that GE's share price would trade around $12 if it were just an industrial company making billions of dollars each year in the lucrative markets where it dominates, such as power plant turbines, medical equipment and train locomotives. GE is the "Cadillac business" in many of those markets, said Peter Sorrentino, senior portfolio manager of Huntington Asset Advisors. And its green energy technology, like wind turbines, could help it benefit from the $787 billion economic stimulus bill. --The conglomerate is restructuring GE Capital to reduce risk, trimming its debt-to-income ratio by a quarter and reducing its holdings of risky debt. And it is slashing an unspecified number of jobs at GE Capital to help save money. --Unlike struggling automakers or banks, GE hasn't taken any federal money despite GE Capital's problems, though it has used government programs that make it easier to issue debt. Here's why buyers should beware: --GE Capital. The unit makes loans for everything from credit cards to power plant construction. It once made up about half of GE's overall earnings. Many analysts and portfolio managers say there are way too many unknowns about GE Capital's $660 billion in assets and whether there are big write-downs looming on loans gone bad. GE has devoted $15 billion to propping up the lending unit and is fighting speculation it will need to inject more this year. Investors worry about possible big losses at GE Capital commercial mortgage business, though GE has said the rumors are overblown and that it expects a profit in 2009 at GE Capital. GE Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt acknowledged in his annual shareholder letter that the company didn't anticipate the global financial meltdown, and that it was caught exposed to the credit bubble in areas such as commercial real estate and mortgages in the United Kingdom. "Everyone is worried there are some massive hits that are going to be taken there," said William Batcheller, director of investment management at Butler, Wick and Co., which owns 660,000 GE shares. --GE cut its quarterly dividend by 68 percent to 10 cents per share recently. It was the first cut since 1938. While it should save GE about $9 billion in cash, it will significantly lower payouts for shareholders who want a steady source of income. If you own 100 shares of GE, your dividend check for 2009 will drop to $82, instead of the $124 you expected. --The company is at risk of losing its coveted 'AAA' bond rating because of GE Capital. That means it will be much more expensive for GE to issue debt to raise capital. This is significant because GE Capital raises money through debt markets and doesn't take deposits like banks do. Two ratings agencies, Standard &amp; Poor's and Moodys Investors Services, are both reviewing GE for a possible downgrade. So where is the bottom? Investors and analysts say that is difficult to gauge. Some options traders have bet it could fall as low as $2.50 by June. But the stock also rebounded in recent days even as the broader markets grew bleaker. GE shares have rebounded more than 25 percent since hitting a fresh low last Wednesday morning, closing Monday at $7.41 The company plans to update Wall Street analysts about GE Capital sometime during the week of March 16. GE is working hard to convince investors that it is stable and won't have to raise new cash for GE Capital. Last week, CEO Jeff Immelt even bought 50,000 shares in an effort to instill confidence. But until clear information comes out, many would-be buyers are staying on the sidelines. "There's still too much uncertainty over GE Capital over the next 12 months for us to own it," said Mark Demos, a portfolio manager with Fifth Third Asset Management.
