US banks mostly fall Wednesday Wednesday March 4, 1:54 pm ET By Stephen Bernard, AP Business Writer Shares of US banks mostly fall as US Bancorp latest to slash dividend NEW YORK (AP) -- Investors continued to remain cautious of U.S. banks Wednesday, sending shares mostly lower in afternoon trading. The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 of America's largest banks, fell 2.7 percent to 21.63 Wednesday afternoon. ADVERTISEMENT Banks' shares have been steadily falling in recent weeks, especially as more banks look to cut their dividends to preserve capital amid the ongoing credit crisis and recession. U.S. Bancorp was the latest bank to slash its dividend, paring its payment to common shareholders by 88 percent. U.S. Bancorp cut its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per common share from 42.5 cents per common share. The cut in the dividend will help U.S. Bancorp save about $2.6 billion annually. Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp cut its dividend because of "uncertainty in the financial markets and a weakening economy," the company's president and chief executive, Richard Davis, said in a statement. Shares of U.S. Bancorp fell $1.21, or 9.6 percent, to $11.37. Shares have traded between $9.71 and $42.23 during the past year. Banks have been forced to slash their dividends in recent months to help conserve cash as loan losses continue to mount. With the recession deepening, loan losses are widely expected to continue to rise from already elevated levels. That has forced banks to look for new ways to help offset the losses. Dividend cuts have been one option for making up for such losses. Despite affirming an "Outperform" rating on the stock, Fox-Pitt Kelton analyst Andrew Marquardt said Wells Fargo &amp; Co. should cut its dividend to help save capital. In a research note Wednesday, Marquardt said the most important reason San Francisco-based Wells Fargo should slash its dividend is to help repay the government's investment. Last fall, hundreds of banks received direct capital investments from the federal government in an effort to bolster the sinking sector. Banks are charged a 5 percent annual interest rate on the investment, and Marquardt said cutting the dividend could help provide the flexibility to repay that investment. Shares of Wells Fargo fell 96 cents, or 9 percent to $9.71. U.S. Bancorp's dividend cut and calls for Wells Fargo to do the same come a week after two other large banks slashed their dividends. Last week, both JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. and PNC Financial Services Group Inc. each slashed their dividends. Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial cut its quarterly dividend 85 percent to 10 cents per share from 66 cents per share, a move that saves it about $1 billion annually. Shares of PNC Financial fell $1.29, or 5.2 percent, to $23.53 in afternoon trading. JPMorgan Chase said it was slashing its quarterly dividend to 5 cents per share from 38 cents. The move will save the New York-based bank about $5 billion per year. Among the few gainers in the sector, shares of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. rose 2 cents to $3.66.
