U.S. stock futures rise for second day By Steve Goldstein, MarketWatch Last update: 7:51 a.m. EDT March 11, 2009LONDON (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stock futures advanced Wednesday after the biggest one-day rally in more than four months as analysts debated what it means that one of the country's most ailing banks, Citigroup, churned out a profit early in the year. S&amp;P 500 futures rose 9.2 points to 725.20 and Nasdaq 100 futures added 15.25 points to 1,121.20. Dow industrial futures rose 68 points. News that Citigroup was profitable during the first two months of the year as well as Rep. Barney Frank's declaration that the Securities and Exchange Commission was close to reinstating the uptick rule limiting short sales sent stocks flying higher on Tuesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 379 points, the Nasdaq Composite climbed 89 points and the S&amp;P 500 advanced 43 points. Jim Reid, a credit strategist at Deutsche Bank, noted that Citi (CCitigroup Inc News , chart , profile , more C) hasn't been alone in declaring a good start to the year. "The key is that margins have increased and competition in the sector has reduced. All in all this means that the first quarter will likely show some bumper earnings for several banks," he said. "However the key remains as to whether illiquid assets on these banks' balance sheets will still eventually offset the profitability of the core businesses." Citi shares jumped further, to $1.64, in pre-open trade. Bank of America (BACbank of america corporation com News , chart , profile , more Delayed quote dataAdd to portfolio UBS) , which revised its 2008 loss wider by around $1 billion, said earnings will be at risk for some time to come. There was worrisome news from China, where exports plunged 26% in February. Still, currency strategists at BNP Paribas noted that cement production climbed 17%, a sign, they said, of an expanding economy. "All the policy measures China has introduced so far are focusing on domestic demand, and hence we regard China's export performance as not market relevant in respect of determining medium-term trends," they said in a note to clients. On Wednesday's docket, the U.S. Treasury will auction $18 billion of 10-year notes, while the Bank of England's quantitative-easing operation kicks off. Oil futures were down 61 cents a barrel ahead of weekly energy inventory data. Gold futures climbed back above the $900 an ounce level, and the dollar was weaker against rivals. Of stocks in the spotlight, casino operators were lower in pre-market trade as Moody's Investors Service again downgraded the credit ratings of MGM Mirage (MGMMGM News , chart , profile , more
