U.S. Stock Futures Climb; Bank of America, General Motors Rise Share   Email   Print   A A A By Adria Cimino and Lynn Thomasson March 26 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stock futures rose, indicating the Standard &amp; Poors 500 Index may extend its biggest monthly gain since 1991, on growing speculation government measures will help revive the economy. Asian shares climbed, while European equities fluctuated. Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo &amp; Co. advanced at least 2 percent. General Motors Corp. jumped 11 percent as people familiar with the matter said the company has persuaded more than 6,000 United Auto Workers members to take buyouts. Best Buy Co. gained after its profit forecast beat estimates. Futures on the S&amp;P 500 expiring in June added 1.3 percent to 818.8 at 8:24 a.m. in New York. The index has climbed 11 percent in March. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures advanced 1.1 percent to 7,763 and Nasdaq-100 Index futures rallied 1.6 percent to 1,253.5. The S&amp;P 500 has surged 20 percent since March 9 amid speculation Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithners plan to help investors buy toxic assets will revive credit markets. Stocks gained yesterday after government reports showed unexpected growth in durable-goods orders and new-home sales. Maybe the worst for the economy is behind us, said Benoit de Broissia, an equity analyst at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris, which oversees about $2 billion. The Geithner plan has been welcomed. Comments from private investors who can participate are positive and this gives the plan credibility. Theres a sense of relief in the market. Europe, Asia European stocks swung between gains and losses after a report showed U.K. retail sales posted the smallest annual increase in more than 13 years last month. The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index slipped 0.1 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.5 percent. Bank of America added 3 percent to $7.94, while Wells Fargo increased 2.6 percent to $16.85. GM climbed 11 percent to $3.33. The biggest U.S. automaker will announce the buyout participation today, said people familiar with the results, who asked to go unnamed because the tally is unofficial. GM and UAW spokesmen are not commenting on buyout totals until the data is released. Best Buy rose 8.2 percent to $36.20. The largest U.S. electronics retailer forecast full-year profit of $2.50 to $2.90 a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated $2.46 a share. Economy Watch The U.S. economy probably contracted more than previously estimated in the fourth quarter and the pace of firings accelerated last week, economists said before reports at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Gross domestic product shrank at a 6.6 percent annual rate from October to December, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of people claiming jobless benefits exceeded 600,000 for an eighth consecutive time, the Labor Department may report. The gain in global equities this month is a bear-market rally, said Nouriel Roubini, the New York University professor who predicted last years economic crisis. Economists forecasts are way too optimistic, earnings will surprise on the downside and some large banks may go belly up, he said in a Bloomberg Television interview in London today. U.S. investors put $5.61 billion into stock and bond mutual funds in the week ended March 18, the most since January, reversing course as the markets had their biggest surge in more than 70 years. Investors put $5.64 billion in bond funds during the week and removed $232 million from stock funds, according to data from the Investment Company Institute. A week earlier, they deposited $901 million in bond accounts and pulled $22.11 billion from stock accounts, the largest such withdrawal in five months, statistics from the Washington-based trade group show. To contact the reporter on this story: Adria Cimino in Paris at acimino1@bloomberg.net; Lynn Thomasson in New York at lthomasson@bloomberg.net. Last Updated: March 26, 2009 08:26 EDT
