S&amp;P 500 Plummets To Oct. '96 Lows As Bank Fears Grow BY JONAH KERI Posted 3/2/2009 Stocks plunged again Monday as more bad news from the financial sector shoved the S&amp;P 500 to its lowest level since 1996. The benchmark S&amp;P index dived 4.7%. The Dow industrials slid 4.2%, the NYSE composite 5.5%. The Nasdaq skidded 4%, the small-cap S&amp;P 600 5.3%. Volume eased compared with Friday's levels, falling 12% on the NYSE and 7% on the Nasdaq. But trading still finished well above average as traders continued to dump stocks. Monday's sell-off deepened the market's correction. Bank stocks continued the downward spiral that intensified in September with the collapse of Lehman Bros. and other events that changed Wall Street's landscape. The NYSE indexes have now tumbled to their lowest levels since the infancy of the Internet. The Nasdaq is closing in on its bottom from November of last year, and its 2003 lows. Bad tidings from AIG (AIG) helped trigger the session's losses. The embattled insurance company reported a $62 billion quarterly loss, the largest in Wall Street history. The federal government will kick in another $30 billion to keep AIG afloat, raising the total bailout amount committed to the insurer to $162.5 billion. The market's reaction to the AIG news echoed events Friday, when stocks tanked on word that the government was taking a 36% stake in Citigroup (C). Investors had already been aware of AIG's plight for a while. But a surprisingly bad bout of news for British bank HSBC Holdings (HBC) made matters worse. HSBC posted a huge drop in quarterly profit. Investment firm Knight Vinke warned that the U.K. bank might suffer an additional $34 billion loss because of bad subprime investments. HSBC's NYSE-traded shares slid 19% to a record low. Other financials also sank. The list of losers included Bank of America (BAC), Morgan Stanley (MS) and Goldman Sachs (GS), as banking indexes suffered major losses. The SPDR Financial ETF gapped down, closing at its lowest level in its 10-year history. ConocoPhillips (COP) fell 6% on Monday, one of many energy stocks to take a big hit. April crude oil shed $4.59 to settle at $40.17 a barrel, triggering those losses. Meanwhile, leading stocks also continued their descent, with the IBD 100 losing 3.3%. IBD's index of top-performing stocks followed the broader indexes' lead last week, undercutting its November lows. The broad market's correction has taken huge bites out of even the highest-rated stocks, leaving virtually no safe havens from the prevailing carnage. Matrixx Initiatives (MTXX) slumped 1.88 to 15.75 in more than twice its normal trade. The thinly traded marketer of over-the-counter cold and allergy medication, including flagship product Zicam, had been one of the few top-rated stocks to hold firm near recent highs. But Matrixx slashed through its 50-day moving average on Monday. Elsewhere, Treasuries rallied as investors sought a place to hide from the stock market's losses. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 2.88% from 3.04% late Friday.
