MARKETWATCH.COM Cost to buy protection against U.S. government default surges U.S. sovereign-credit spreads rise sevenfold in year By Laura Mandaro, MarketWatch Last Update: 3/10/2009 3:09:00 PM SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- The cost of buying protection against the risk that the United States will default on its mounting debt has surged in the past months, outpacing the rise in corporate-credit costs, now that the government has absorbed more private-sector debt. The spreads on credit-default swaps for U.S. government debt jumped to 97 basis points Tuesday, nearly seven times higher than a year ago and 60% higher than the end of last year, to a level roughly in line with those of France, according to data supplied by Markit. The spreads also hit a record last week. In contrast, an index that tracks the cost of buying credit protection against defaults on North American companies with investment-grade ratings -- the Markit CDX.NA.IG index -- has not even doubled in the past year. The index, which includes CDS on blue-chip companies like Altria Group (MO) and Bristol-Meyers Squibb Co. (BMY), has risen 30% this year. Higher spreads on credit-defaults swaps indicate sellers have raised the price of guaranteeing protection because they perceive the likelihood of a default as higher. A spread of 97 means it would cost about $97,000 to buy protection on $10 million in U.S. government debt. The rise in U.S. sovereign CDS spreads reflects the increasingly active role the United States has played in debt markets, according to Bank of America Securities analysts. In the past year, it's absorbed the toxic assets that led to Bear Stearns' collapse; taken mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities as collateral for loans; and bought commercial paper and agency debt, among other moves. "Having effectively guaranteed the short-term markets, that risks shifts to the government," wrote Bank of America Securities-Merrill Lynch analysts led by Jeffrey Rosenberg, in a note issued early Tuesday. Record highs not a good sign The rising costs to buy credit protection undermine hopes that credit markets are improving -- a turnaround that could set up the U.S. economy and stock market for revival. An index that tracks the costs of credit protection of 14 leading banks and brokerages -- including Bank of America Corp. (BAC), Citigroup Inc. (C), Goldman Sachs Group (GS) and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM) -- hit a record high Monday, according to index publisher Credit Derivatives Research. See full story. Click for Detail
