AIG is in trouble because of Credit Default Swaps, not buying sub prime mortgage CDOs. This happened because Paulson didn't believe in bailing out financial institutions and thought that subsidizing Bear Sterns for JPMorgan caused too much "moral hazard". Thus, when the fed let Lehman Bros fail, something no one thought would ever happen, AIG was responsible for literally billions of dollars of insurance money when people called in their CDS money. Of course AIG didn't have it, and credit default swap agreements aren't regulated. The government saw the massive chain reaction of the economy when they let Lehman go under, and Bernanke advised Paulson that the "systemic reaction" would be exponentially worse if they let AIG follow suit. In other words, there would be no more American economy. The amount of money invested in AIG by other companies is staggering and no one really knows the extent of it. This wouldn't just affect your 401ks. The commercial paper market would literally freeze. Major companies would declare bankruptcy by the end of the week.   So excuse me if I happen to be in the minority here, but I don't think people really understand this situation enough. I'd also like to point out that the author of this article is on one side of the argument as far as Japan's lost decade goes. Their financial crisis was considered by many to have been caused by the government stepping in *too late*. Not only did they not bail out the banks, but they continued to let them make their bad loans. They didn't cut interest rates, and even announced they were raising taxes and cutting spending in 1995. What they did do in parallel to us was create a failed stimulus plan (albeit not soon enough) focused on roads and waterway improvements, etc.   The Japanese also save more money than Americans. And their crisis was in the commercial real estate market, not residential. If we let AIG fail we will have, as the author said, a _horrible_ few years. The difference being many people simply will not have enough money saved up to weather the storm. If they want historians to stop comparing all economic recessions to the Great Depression they'd certainly achieve that if they listened to the majority of Americans.   
