       Below is the truth of what's happened in this country.....a truth which you all refuse to accept. The pimps who put people like you out to defend their greed are only making matters worse. If you all persist, there WILL be class warfare in this country. Americans believe in and support Obama, not Madoff and Bush. You need to accept it and move on.   " How did reality become so warped that Wiesel, let alone thousands of lesser mortals, could mistake Madoff for God?  It was this crooks ability to pass for a deity that allowed his fraud to escape scrutiny not just from his victims but from the S.E.C. and the money managers who pimped his wares. This aura of godliness also shielded the legal Madoffs at firms like Citibank and Goldman Sachs. They spread V.D. with esoteric derivatives, then hedged their wild gambles with A.I.G. insurance (credit-default swaps) that proved to be the most porous prophylactics in the history of finance.    The simplest explanation for why Americas reality got so distorted is the economic imbalance that Barack Obama now wants to remedy with policies that his critics deride as socialist (fascist cant be far behind): the obscene widening of income inequality between the very rich and everyone else since the 1970s.  There is something wrong when we allow the playing field to be tilted so far in the favor of so few, the president said in his budget message. He was calling for fundamental fairness, not class warfare. America hasnt seen such gaping inequality since the Gilded Age and 1920s boom that preceded the Great Depression.   This inequity was compounded by Bush tax policy and by lawmakers and regulators of both parties who enabled and protected the banking scam artists who fled with their bonuses and left us holding the toxic remains.  The fantasy of easy money at the top of the economic pyramid trickled down to the masses, who piled up debt by leveraging their homes much as their 20s predecessors once floated stock purchases on margin. Our culture, meanwhile, painted halos over celebrity C.E.O.s, turning the fundamentalist gospel of the market into a national religion that further accelerated the countrys wholesale flight from reality.   The once-lionized lifestyles of the rich and infamous were appallingly tacky. John Thains parchment trash can was merely the tip of the kitschy iceberg. The level of taste flaunted by Americas upper caste at the bubbles height had less in common with the Medicis than, say, Uday and Qusay Hussein."     http://siliconinvestor.advfn.com/readmsg.aspx?msgid=25475620   
