         Obama tells Leno he was stunned by AIG bonuses       By Mark S. Smith, Associated Press Writer  Fri Mar 20  BURBANK, Calif.  President Barack Obama told Jay Leno on Thursday that he was stunned when he learned of the bonuses that bailed-out insurance giant AIG was paying its employees.     Obama told "The Tonight Show" host the payments raise moral and ethical problems  and vowed again to try to recoup the cash for taxpayers.  "Were going to do everything we can to get these bonuses back", he declared.      Leno asked Obama what he thought when his staff first advised him of the payments, many made to traders in the very division that brought American International Group to ruin.       "Stunned is the word," Obama replied  in a taped appearance on "Tonight." He said he found it hard to fathom how anyone would accept lavish payments in those circumstances. "People just had this sense of entitlement. We must be the best and the brightest."     But Obama staunchly defended Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, whos increasingly come under fire for failing to block the bonuses.   "I think Geithner is doing an outstanding job," Obama said. "He is a smart guy. He is a calm and steady guy.  I dont think people fully appreciate the plate that was handed him."     (Comment: "You're doing a heck of a job, Brownee.")     Obama added Geithners carrying on "with grace and good humor. He understand [sic] that hes on the hot seat."   Too many in Washington are trying to figure out who to blame for things  when they should be focused on fixing them, Obama said   The White House bowling alley remains in place, Obama said, bragging that he rolled a 129-point game  ("Like the Special Olympics or something," he said) , but a basketball court is a priority  Mr. Obama and his friends need to pick a story and stick to it.  After all, it was his administration that kept the bonuses in the bailout bill. "I think Geithner is doing an outstanding job," Obama said. "He is a smart guy. He is a calm and steady guy. I dont think people fully appreciate the plate that was handed him."    Now that is comedy.  And so too is this sudden change: Too many in Washington are trying to figure out who to blame for things  when they should be focused on fixing them, Obama said.   Yes, that is surely been Mr. Obamas tactic for the last several years.  And speaking of President Bush or any Republican, imagine the outrage had any of them made fun of the differently abled on national TV: The White House bowling alley remains in place, Obama said, bragging that he rolled a 129-point game ("Like the Special Olympics or something," he said), but a basketball court is a priority   Would the Associated Press bury such a politically incorrect gaffe in a parenthetical aside at the bottom of an article?     Of course not.     More  here. 
