TORONTO " North American markets appear ready to extend their losses Thursday, even after investors got a small dose of good news when JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings.  The huge banking company said it earned US$702 million, or 7 cents per share, in the October-December quarter.  Analysts had expected the company to break even.  Still, the results didnt appear to be enough to ease investors concerns about the financial sector.  JPMorgan said it increased its reserves to cover potential loan losses by $4.1 billion, and Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said higher loan losses are likely if the economy deteriorates further.  JPMorgan is the first big U.S. bank to release fourth-quarter earnings, and analysts and investors were looking at it for signs of how the rest of the industry may be faring.  The Canadian dollar opened at 80.42 cents US on Thursday, up 0.31 of a cent from Wednesdays close. Torontos S&amp;P/TSX composite index fell 273.19 points or three per cent to 8,688.36 on Wednesday.  New Yorks Dow Jones industrials lost 248.42 points to 8,200.14 as retail sales plunged 2.7 per cent in December, a record sixth straight monthly decline.  Stock in Nortel Networks (TSX:NT) plunged 26.5 cents or 68.8 per cent to 12 cents on a huge volume of 73.2 million shares after the company announced it was filing for bankruptcy protection in the U.S.a nd Canada.  Investors, who have been selling stocks for much of the new year, are likely to remain on edge Thursday ahead of an earnings report from Intel Corp. and a batch of economic readings.  Intel, the worlds largest maker of computer chips, has already warned investors that its fourth-quarter revenue will fall short of its initial estimates.  Light, sweet crude rose 19 cents to $37.47 a barrel in electronic premarket trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Overseas, Japans Nikkei stock average dropped 4.9 per cent and Hong Kongs Hang Seng index tumbled 3.4 per cent. In afternoon trading, Britains FTSE 100 was down 0.4 per cent, Germanys DAX index fell 0.4 per cent, and Frances CAC-40 fell 0.5 per cent.
