Rio Tinto's boss, Tom Albanese, cheered the market on Friday morning by ruling out an emergency rights issue.  Albanese insisted cost-cutting and asset sales would be enough to meet its debt-reduction targets, a view given some support by Citigroup.  The US bank said the 'sale of minerals and thermal coal assets appears most advanced and could go a long way to achieving target.'  Citi retains its 'buy/high risk' rating on the shares after the mining giant's fourth quarter production update which was 'expectedly weak in copper and iron ore ... but relatively resilient elsewhere.'  Earnings forecasts for full-year 2008 have been downgraded 9% by Citi following the update, reflecting the 'collapse in metal prices into year-end, provisional pricing impacts, aluminium inventory write-downs and higher exploration expense.'  Citi has also trimmed its earnings estimates for 2009 and beyond.  The US bank has a price target of 2690p for the stock.  Possibly applying a bit of inside knowledge, Royal Bank of Scotland's broking arm has issued a bearish note on the UK banking sector.  Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) sees little sign of conditions in the wholesale funding markets easing, which in turn will constrain lending opportunities over the next two years.  RBS has cut its ratings on Barclays, Standard Chartered and HSBC from 'hold' to 'sell', and chopped its price targets for all of them.  The price target (PT) for Barclays has been cut from 260p to 105p; Standard Chartered's PT is down to 640p from 850p while HSBC's price target is now 450p, versus 850p previously.  RBS does have some optimistic words for Lloyds TSB shareholders. It believes the part-nationalised bank is 'the most geared to any equity friendly Government initiative,' and has an 'undemanding valuation.'  RBS has upgraded Lloyds from 'sell' to hold' though the price target is reduced from 260p to 105p.  Dutch investment house ING was disappointed with the trading update issued on Thursday by Argos and Homebase owner Home Retail Group, particularly with regard to gross margins.  ING has retained its 'sell' recommendation, saying it is too early to buy the stock on recovery hopes. The broker chopped its price target, which is based on a sum of the parts valuation, from 200p to 180p.  The broker's full-year 2010 pre-tax profit forecast has been cut 23% to 183m after the retailer reported a gross margin decline of 125 basis points (one and a quarter percentage points).  RIO - Rio Tinto  
