* Bank of America get fresh capital boost  * Citigroup says to split into two operating units  * For up-to-the-minute market news, click [STXNEWS/US] (Adds quote, byline, updates prices)  NEW YORK, Jan 16 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures rose on Friday after Bank of America (BAC.N) received a $20 billion government capital injection, overshadowing signs of more fallout from the credit crisis for the financial sector.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank, followed the news of fresh government aid with a report of a $1.79 billion fourth-quarter loss, excluding Merrill Lynch, which it recently acquired. For more see [ID:nN16253682].  Citigroup (C.N) reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $8.29 billion and said it would split into two operating units. [ID:nN16440883]  Investors found comfort, however, from the government's apparent push to stave off failure of yet another major bank, according to analysts.  'Everybody out there believes that the government will not let these banks fail and that's what giving the market a bounce today,' said Matt McCall, president of Penn Financial Group in Ridgewood, New Jersey.  'But I still don't know how we're going to pay for all of this. It's either our taxes are going to get raised very high, or this is going to crush the U.S. dollar, which leads me to like commodities right here.'  S&amp;P 500 futures SPc1 rose 14.80 points and were above fair value, a formula to evaluate pricing taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average futures DJc1 gained 128 points and Nasdaq 100 futures NDc1 climbed 18.25 points.  Citigroup shares rose 6 percent before the bell to $4.06, while Bank of America gained more than 5 percent to $8.80. Both stocks are components of the Dow Jones industrial average.  The advance suggested benchmark indexes will open with gains of nearly 2 percent, and extend a worldwide stock market run-up which lifted Asian stocks overnight and had European stocks up 3 percent on Friday.  Concerns about mounting credit losses for banks and worries about Citigroup roiled the market this week, contributing to a pullback in the market's advance from its Nov. 21 bear market low. The benchmark S&amp;P 500 started 2009 up more than 20 percent since that low, but ended Thursday up 12 percent.  Citigroup's plan had been anticipated for some time and is seen as a way to shed troubled assets. For the latest quarter, Citigroup posted $28.3 billion of writedowns and credit losses, bringing its total credit losses over 15 months to more than $92 billion. [ID:nN16440883]  The help for Bank of America, announced by the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, comes out of the government's $700 billion bailout fund in exchange for preferred stock. [ID:nN16184370] (Editing by James Dalgleish)  
