In its monthly survey, the Paris-based International Energy Agency cited 'the relentless worsening of global economic conditions' as it reduced its global demand expectations by one million barrels, to 85.3 million barrels a day.  It would mark the first time in more than a quarter of a century that global demand fell in consecutive years.  The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the US Energy Information Administration also cut their demand expectations this week. OPEC said crude demand should fall by 180,000 barrels per day this year. The US Energy Information Agency, part of the Energy Department forecast that oil consumption would fall by 800,000 barrels per day.  Light, sweet crude for March delivery fell 97 US cents on Friday to settle at $US42.57 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The February contract, which expires on Tuesday, rose $US1.11 to settle at $US36.51 a barrel in very light trading. The February contract tumbled from a high of $US50.47 a barrel last week as dismal economic and corporate results stoked investor fears that a drop-off in crude demand may be greater than expected.  In other Nymex futures trading, gasoline slipped by less than a cent to settle at $US1.1672 and heating oil fell 1.3 cents to settle at $US1.4734 a gallon. Natural gas for February delivery fell less than a cent to $US4.797 per 1,000 cubic feet.  Brent crude for March delivery rose $US1.88 to $US46.57.  Gold prices rebounded Friday as the dollar gave back some of its recent gains and fell against other major currencies.  Gold, which investors often use as a hedge against inflation, tends to move inversely against the dollar. The greenback has gained strength in recent months as currencies around the world weakened due to the worsening economic outlook.  But the dollar changed direction on Friday, falling against the euro, British pound and Japanese yen in response to the US government's latest efforts to help prop up the ailing financial industry.  Late Thursday, Bank of America Corp reached a deal to receive an additional $US20 billion ($A30.03 billion) in government funds, as well as guarantees to cover up to $US118 billion ($A177.18 billion) in losses on certain loans and securities.  The deal is similar to one that Citigroup Inc reached with the government late last year.  Citigroup, meanwhile, said it plans to split in two, separating its traditional banking business from its riskier operations.  Gold for February delivery rose $US32.60 to settle at $US839.90 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract finished down 1.8 per cent for the week.
