New York  U.S. stocks opened flat on Thursday, as investors took in stride a pair of weak readings on the economy and a discouraging outlook from JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. The modest moves Thursday came a day after a selloff and following a U.S. government report that new claims for jobless benefits have increased more than expected last week.  The Dow Jones industrials average is down 8 at the 8,192 level. Broader indexes are little changed.  The U.S. Labor Department said new claims for jobless benefits increased after two weeks of declines. The department also said wholesale prices dropped for a fifth straight month as gasoline prices fell by a record amount. While the reports indicated that the economy remains in poor shape, investors seemed to look past the data.  Some analysts believe the market is due for a rebound after six consecutive sessions of declines in the Dow Jones industrials. Going into Thursday's session, the Dow and the broader Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index are down more than 9 per cent over six days. Investors may have priced some of the recent bad economic and corporate news into the market, which could account for the muted reaction early Thursday. We're likely to see a rally because when all the signs are pointing one way, it tends to get discounted in the market, said Uri Landesman, head of global growth at ING Investment Management. People's tendencies are to look past the present and look into the future. But a discouraging outlook from JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. is likely to keep investors on edge Thursday. The huge banking company managed to avoid a loss, reporting better-than-expected earnings of $702-million (U.S.) or 7 cents a share, in the October-December quarter. Analysts had predicted the company would break even.  Still, chief executive officer Jamie Dimon called the quarter very disappointing. The bank said it increased its reserves to cover potential loan losses by $4.1-billion. Higher loan losses are likely if the economy deteriorates further, which is a distinct possibility, Mr. Dimon said. JPMorgan is the first big U.S. bank to release fourth-quarter earnings, and analysts and investors are looking at it for signs of how the rest of the industry may be faring. The bank, which bought failing Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual Inc. last year, is viewed as one of the stronger players in the industry, so results from other big banks could prove even worse.  Ahead of the market's open, Dow Jones industrial average futures rose 1 or 0.01 per cent to 8,160. Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index futures dipped 3.00 or 0.36 per cent to 836.80, while Nasdaq 100 index futures fell 8.00 or 0.69 per cent to 1,157.50.  Investors, who have been selling stocks for much of the new year, are also awaiting an earnings report from Intel Corp.  Intel, the world's largest maker of computer chips, has already warned investors that its fourth-quarter revenue will fall short of its initial estimates. The market is hoping to gain some sense of the company's outlook for the current year.  The market's late 2008 enthusiasm has been sapped by increasingly gloomy outlooks for companies from banks to retailers to energy producers. On Wednesday, a worse-than-expected report on retail sales and growing concerns about the financial sector sent the Dow down nearly 250 points, and left the other major indexes with a loss of 3 per cent.  The market has been particularly concerned about the stability of the financial industry, fearful that banks could need more assistance from the federal government, which has already pumped $250-billion into the ailing sector. The Wall Street Journal reported that the government is close to finalizing a deal to provide billions of additional aid to Bank of America Corp. to help it close its purchase of brokerage Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Citing an unidentified source close to the talks, the Journal said the bank is unlikely to complete the acquisition without additional funds because of Merrill's hefty losses in the fourth quarter.  Earlier this week, Citigroup said it would give control of its Smith Barney brokerage business to Morgan Stanley in an effort to raise cash. Analysts suspect the bank will shed additional businesses in the near future.  Bond prices inched lower early Thursday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, rose to 2.21 per cent from 2.20 per cent late Wednesday. The yield on the three-month T-bill, considered one of the safest investments, was unchanged from late Wednesday at 0.10 per cent.  The dollar fell against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.  Light, sweet crude fell 90 cents to $36.38 a barrel in electronic pre-market trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average dropped 4.92 per cent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng index tumbled 3.37 per cent. In afternoon trading, Britain's FTSE 100 was down 0.65 per cent, Germany's DAX index fell 0.68 per cent, and France's CAC-40 fell 0.20 per cent.
