HONG KONG, Jan 14 (Reuters) - Hong Kong shares were on course to end a six-day losing spell on Wednesday, rising 1.4 percent, with Chinese banks outperforming after an equity selldown in Bank of China eliminated an overhang on the sector.   However index heavyweight HSBC Holdings fell 2.3 percent to HK$71.3, its lowest level since after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, following a Morgan Stanley report that slashed its target price to HK$52.   The U.S. investment bank cut its profit estimate for the UK-based lender by 17 percent for 2008 and 39 percent for 2009 and said HSBC may have to raise $20 billion to $30 billion to shore up its capital.   The benchmark Hang Seng Index ended the morning session 194.99 points higher at 13,863.04 after a six day slide, its longest since September, 2008.   Mainboard turnover rose to HK$43.8 billion ($5.6 billion) as compared with HK$25 billion by midday Tuesday.   'Most markets in Asia Pacific have moved up today on hopes that Tuesday's mixed performance on Wall Street indicates the market has hit a bottom after a five day fall,' said Andrew To, sales director with Taifook Securities.   'If the HSI can hold above 13,800 points for a few days, it should form a good support and trigger short covering. We may rechallenge 15,000 points around Chinese New Year,' he said.   China Enterprises Index of top mainland firms had gained 3.1 percent to 7,302.68. Beijing-controlled Bank of China rose 3.8 percent after Royal Bank of Scotland sold $2.4 billion worth of shares, its entire holding in China's No.2 lender.   The deal was sealed at the top-end of a price range at HK$1.71 per share, a discount of 7.6 percent to the Chinese lender's Tuesday closing price.   Other Chinese lenders also rose, bouncing back from a sharp correction last week triggered by worries over equity selldowns by strategic stakeholders, as U.S. and European investors hit hard by the global credit crises look to shore up their books.   ICBC rose 0.6 percent while China Construction Bank , which plunged more than 20 percent in the last six days, gained 4.6 percent. Bank of Communications added 4.1 percent.   Last week, Bank of America reduced its holding in CCB while Asian tycoon Li Ka-shing sold some shares in Bank of China.   Other Chinese financial counters also rose, tracking a 1.5 percent gain on the Shanghai bourse, after data raised hopes that economic downturn might bottom more quickly than many expected.   The government announced late on Tuesday that growth in Chinese bank lending and money supply surged in December, responding to government efforts to boost an economy that is being hit by the global financial crisis.   Top insurer China Life rose 3 percent while smaller rival Ping An Insurance gained 5.7 percent.   Chinese real estate stocks gained amid talk that Beijing was set to announce further steps to rescue the country's ailing property sector.   China may announce measures including cash support for developers who build small-unit apartments, the housing minister was cited as saying in a newspaper report on Tuesday. China Overseas Land gained 5.5 percent while Shimao Property climbed 1.5 percent.   (Reporting by Parvathy Ullatil; Editing by Keiron Henderson) S.E. Asia............ Hong Kong... Taiwan..... Wall Street........... Gold......... Currency.. Eurostocks........... Oil........... JP bonds...   ADR Report.......... LME metals.. US bonds... Stocks News US... Stocks News Europe... DIARIES &amp;amp; DATA: IPO diary &amp;amp; data Asia earnings diary U.S. earnings diary Taiwan diary Wall Street Week Ahead   Eurostocks Week Ahead World forecasts For top Asian company news, double click on:   U.S. company news European company news   Forex news Global Economy news   Technology news Telecoms news   Media news Banking news   Politics/General news Asia Macro data   A multimedia version of Reuters Top News is available at: LIVE PRICES &amp;amp; DATA: World Stocks Hong Kong Dollar LME price overview   Keywords: MARKETS HONGKONG STOCKS  Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  Neither the Subscriber nor Thomson Financial News warrants the completeness or accuracy of the Service or the suitability of the Service as a trading aid and neither accepts any liability for losses howsoever incurred. The content on this site, including news, quotes, data and other information, is provided by Thomson Financial News and its third party content providers for your personal information only, and neither Thomson Financial News nor its third party content providers shall be liable for any errors, inaccuracies or delays in content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. 
