TSX pinned lower as bank and energy shares weigh  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index was pinned lower at midmorning on Monday as financial issues fell on concerns about the British and U.S. banking sectors, while a drop in oil prices rattled energy shares. The energy and financial sectors, which together make up about half of the TSX led the decline with slides of 1.8 percent and 1.6 percent respectively.  Canada seeks quicker deployment of automotive aid  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian arms of General Motors and Chrysler should wrap up talks with Ottawa quickly on their restructuring plans because a 'drop dead' date for agreeing on terms for government aid is fast approaching, Industry Minister Tony Clement said on Monday. Clement said that February 20 is the deadline for the automakers to come up with a comprehensive plan that would allow them to get government aid.  UK throws banks a lifeline as RBS posts record loss  LONDON/MADRID (Reuters) - Britain launched a second bank rescue plan on Monday and Royal Bank of Scotland recorded the biggest loss in UK corporate history, while a cut in Spain's credit rating caused fresh market wobbles. Announcing Britain's bank bailout, finance minister Alistair Darling said fourth-quarter GDP figures out on Friday would confirm the UK was in recession for the first time since 1992.  Canada pension giant slams TSX on HudBay deal: report  TORONTO (Reuters) - One of Canada's largest pension funds is complaining to the Toronto Stock Exchange about rules allowing HudBay Minerals Inc's plan for a highly dilutive share issue to pay for the takeover of a rival, the Globe and Mail reported on Monday. The newspaper said the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is writing the TSX and urging it to change regulations that will allow HudBay to double its share count for the friendly takeover of Lundin Mining Corp without the approval of shareholders.  Fiat and Chrysler in partnership talks: report  MILAN (Reuters) - Fiat is talking with Chrysler LLC to form a strategic partnership that could lead to the Italian car maker taking a stake in its U.S. peer, an industry publication said, citing people familiar with the matter. Fiat shares were trading 5.52 percent lower at 4.4575 euros. They had been trading below 6 percent before the news.  Oil falls towards $34 on gas deal and Gaza ceasefire  LONDON (Reuters) - Oil fell more than $2 toward $34 a barrel on Monday as signs of a resolution of a gas row between Russia and Ukraine and after a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas in Gaza eased supply concerns. The market remained under pressure from expectations the weakening global economy would erode oil demand. The International Energy Agency and other forecasters cut their 2009 demand forecasts last week.  Foreigners sell Canadian securities in November  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Foreign investors shed Canadian securities in November, cutting bonds and stocks in favor of more liquid short-term assets, and Canadians continued to repatriate funds from abroad, Statistics Canada said on Monday. Nonresidents reduced their Canadian portfolios in the month by a net C$4.3 billion ($3.4 billion), more than expected, on sales of C$5.4 billion in bonds -- the largest bond disposal since December 2005.  Citi says still committed to Japanese brokerage  TOKYO (Reuters) - Citigroup said on Monday it is still committed to its Japanese brokerage and asset management units, denying media reports that the U.S. bank is actively looking to unload a major part of its Japanese business. Citigroup, which reported an $8.3 billion quarterly loss on Friday, said it plans to split into two units and shed troubled assets.  Loonie weakens as oil drops and greenback firms  TORONTO (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar weakened against the U.S. currency on Monday, as the price of oil fell on easing supply concerns and as the greenback got support from a sullen economic picture in Europe. Canadian bond prices were lower across the board on optimism that recent international measures to prop up banks will ease credit conditions and help improve the global economic picture.  RBS shares slide to 23-year low on record loss  LONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland unveiled the biggest loss in British corporate history on Monday, overshadowing a second government bailout for the sector and sending its shares reeling to a 23-year low. RBS said it would report a 2008 loss of up to 28 billion pounds ($41 billion), driven largely by a goodwill impairment charge of 15 to 20 billion pounds related to its acquisition of parts of Dutch rival ABN AMRO in 2007.   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
