NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- The financial companies behind much of the trauma clobbering the broader market in recent months, and again on Friday, have S&amp;P 500 investors in 2009 facing the worst picture for dividends in at least half a century. 'I've been chicken to put out the 2009 dividend forecast. I usually do it in December, but I'm waiting to see what happens in Washington,' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's. The latest steps by the government to stem the financial crisis Friday helped lift the financial sector as well as the broader market in the early going, with equities initially rebounding for a second session after a string of losses. That proved short-lived, though, with equities shaving gains to fall into an afternoon of declines. Up more than 100 points at the start, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) at midday was more recently off 68.9 points to 8,143.59, with 21 of its 30 components posting losses. The S&amp;P 500 Index ($SPX:$SPX Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 8.9 points to stand at 834.84, with utilities, health care and consumer staple shares up the most, while financials industrials and consumer-discretionary shares turned lower. The Nasdaq Composite Index (COMP:COMP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) dropped 11.72 points to 1,500.12. 'We saw that fourth-quarter dividends were very bad, and some of those companies actually paid out in the fourth quarter, and then reduced in November and December. The full impact has not been felt by investors yet, and more is on the way. Even on the optimistic side, we're probably going to get a 50-year record in the percent of decline over 2008,' said Silverblatt. Case in point: Bank of America Corp.'s (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) dividend reduction from $1.28 to 4 cents, a slashing that brings the S&amp;P 500 payout and yield down by 3.4%, according to Silverblatt's calculations. Bank of America axed its dividend and posted its first loss since 1991 after the government said it would invest an additional $20 billion in the company and guarantee $118 billion of assets, as B. of A. digests Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. . In afternoon trade, shares of Bank of America were down more than 15%, proving the heaviest weight on the Dow. A former dividend aristocrat -- a term reserved for companies that have paid out at least 25 years in a row, hiking each time -- Bank of America's recent reduction follows an October reduction from $2.56 to $1.28 after more than a quarter century of increases. Kate Gibson is a reporter for MarketWatch, based in New York.
