 (RTTNews) - Stocks are indicating a mixed open on Thursday, as investors react to some mixed corporate news and a slew of economic data. After the considerable losses shown in the previous session, nervousness is being felt throughout the broader markets as investors see little to paint a positive picture of the global economy.   News from iPod maker Apple Inc. (AAPL   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is generating some selling pressure, with investors responding to an announcement that its CEO, Steve Jobs had decided go on medical leave until the end of June. In an email sent to all Apple employees, Jobs announced that Tim Cook would be responsible for Apple's day-to-day operations during his absence.  Some negative sentiment has also been generated by news that Motorola (MOT   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) plans to eliminate 4,000 more jobs, mostly in its mobile devices business. Google (GOOG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) also revealed that it intends to eliminate about 100 recruitment jobs.   In other news, the Wall Street Journal reported that the U.S. government is close to finalizing a deal to provide billions in additional aid to Bank of America (BAC   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating).   Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) is showing some pre-market strength after the company announced a surprise fourth quarter profit of $0.07 per share, beating estimates that the company would break even.   On the economic front, initial jobless claims rose to 524,000 in the week ended January 10th from the previous week's revised figure of 470,000. Economists had been expecting jobless claims to rise to 501,000 from the 467,000 originally reported for the previous week.   Separately, the Labor Department said its producer price index fell 1.9 percent in December following an unrevised 2.2 percent decrease in the previous month. The decrease by the index came in line with economists' expectations.   Excluding food and energy prices, the core producer price index edged up 0.2 percent in December after rising 0.1 percent in November. Economists had been expecting core prices to show another 0.1 percent increase.   Additionally, the Empire State Manufacturing Index came in better than expected, narrowing to a reading of negative 22.2 compared to economist estimates of a reading of negative 25.0.   A half-hour after the start of trading, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve is due to release its regional manufacturing report. The index of activity in the sector is expected to narrow to negative 35.0 in January from a revised negative 36.1 in December.   With traders reacting to much weaker than expected December retail sales data, stocks saw substantial weakness during trading on Wednesday. The markets extended a recent downward move, with the Dow closing lower for the sixth consecutive session.   After showing a steep decline in morning trading, the major averages were rangebound throughout the afternoon but remained firmly negative. The Dow closed down nearly 250 points, at its worst closing level in well over a month.   Crude oil futures are easing $0.73 to $36.55 a barrel after declining $0.50 to $37.28 a barrel on Wednesday. The modest price decrease in the previous session came after a report showed a continued increase in crude oil inventories.   The report showed that crude oil stockpiles rose by 1.2 million barrels and remain above the upper limit of the average range. Gasoline inventories and distillate fuel inventories increased by 2.1 million barrels and 6.4 million barrels, respectively.   Gold futures, which fell $11.90 to $808.80 an ounce in the previous session, are currently rising $3.10 to $811.90 an ounce.   On the currency front, the U.S. dollar is trading at 89.44 yen compared to the 89.045 yen it was worth at the close of New York trading on Wednesday. The dollar is currently valued at $1.3151 versus the euro.   In overseas trading, stock markets across the Asia-Pacific region fell sharply on Thursday in reaction to the sell-off seen on Wall Street overnight. Japan's Nikkei 225 Index showed a notable decline, falling nearly 5 percent.   The major European averages are also moving lower, adding to the losses posted in the previous session. While the French CAC 40 Index and the German DAX Index are falling 0.2 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively, the U.K. FTSE 100 Index is down 0.6 percent.   For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2009 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
