WARSAW, Jan 9 (Reuters) - Here are news stories, press reports and events to watch which may affect Central/Eastern Europe's financial markets on Friday. RUSSIA/UKRAINE GAS DISPUTE Europe looked for a swift restoration of gas supplies, after striking a deal with Moscow on monitoring gas shipments via Ukraine that have been halted by a rancorous pricing dispute with Kiev. Diplomats in Prague said the European Union would send monitors to Ukraine on Friday to be deployed at the main metering stations for gas arriving from Russia. Hungary will provide Serbia with one to two million cubic meters of natural gas on Thursday to ease the country's gas shortage, Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany said. Hungary plans to use some of its strategic gas reserves on Thursday to ensure supplies to households and most industrial users as it is still not getting any Russian gas via Ukraine, Energy Minister Csaba Molnar said. AGORA Media company Agora will propose to shareholders to spend 19 million zlotys ($6.4 million) on its own share buyback, the money is the remaining cash from a previous buyback, when the company spent only 71 out of 90 million. ASSECO Asseco South Eastern Europe, a Balkan subsidiary of Poland's largest IT firm Asseco Poland, will seek up to 140 million zlotys from the upcoming initial public offering, Puls Biznesu writes. COMARCH ING cut Comarch recommendation to sell from hold setting a price target at 55.9 zlotys, down from 75.5 zlotys. LPP ING cut LPP recommendation to hold from buy in a report dated January 7 setting the price target at 1269 zlotys, up from 1223.5 zlotys. ERSTE'S BCR Romania's biggest banak BCR, majority owned by Austria's Erste Bank sees its revenues rising by 20 percent year-on-year in 2009, Ziarul Financiar writes. CEZ Czech nuclear power plant Dukovany will shut Unit 3 for three months for a fuel change, power company CEZ said. WARSAW BOURSE Poland plans to offer a stake of up to 73.8 percent in the Warsaw Stock Exchange in the first stage of the sell-off and targets an entire exit in about 2-3 years, treasury ministry said in a statement on Thursday. EUROPEAN MARKETS European equities were set to rise on Friday, reversing a two-session losing streak, helped by news that U.S. bank Citigroup agreed to support legislation aimed at stemming home loan foreclosures. But gains could be limited ahead of key U.S. monthly jobs data and the unemployment rate. For the latest news on European markets, double click WALL STREET Most U.S stocks rose on Thursday after news that Citigroup Inc agreed to support legislation aimed at stemming home loan foreclosures, offsetting Wal-Mart's disappointing sales and outlook. For latest Wall Street news, double click OTHER EQUITY NEWS Stocks on the move Real-time Equity News Emerging markets equities E.Europe equities Hot stocks Stock markets Emerging Europe diaries European stocks report Major world stock market performance FTSE Eurotop 300 index................... DJ STOXX index........................... Eurotop 300 sector gainers/losers... Top 25 European pct gainers............ Top 25 European pct losers............. European Equities speed guide............. Pan European indices..................... Pan European analysis..................... REGIONAL INDICES Warsaw WIG20 Istanbul ISE National 100 Budapest SE Index Bucharest Beti Prague PX Zagreb Crobex Sofia Sofix Ljubljana SBI20 MSCI Global Emerging Markets FTSEurofirst 300 ($1=2.953 Zloty) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2009. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.  
