VIENNA, Austria - A surge in U.S. crude oil inventories indicating a steady drop in consumer demand pushed prices below US$43 a barrel in Europe on Friday. Instead of the 6.1 million barrel increase, analysts had expected a boost of only 1.9 million barrels, according to a survey by Platts, the energy information arm of McGraw-Hill Cos. Crude stocks have now surged 14 million barrels in the last three weeks. Light, sweet crude for March delivery fell 91 cents to $42.76 a barrel by midday in Europe in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract rose 12 cents overnight to settle at $43.67. The 6.1 million barrel increase was reported Thursday by the Energy Department's Energy Information Administration, brining stocks to the highest seasonal level of the last five years. Stocks grew by 217,000 barrels in Cushing, Oklahoma, to a new record high of 33.2 million barrels. Cushing stocks are closing in on the maximum operational capacity of around 37 million barrels by industry estimates, which 'could further pressure WTI prices,' said JBC Energy's in a research note. Gasoline inventories rose by 6.5 million barrels, three times more than what was expected by analysts, underscoring the collapse in demand as U.S. drivers cut back on trips. 'We don't see any reason for a strong pickup in demand for some time forward,' said Gerard Burg, a minerals and energy economist with National Australia Bank in Melbourne. Investor optimism was also undermined by more poor economic news. The U.S. Commerce Department reported Thursday that construction of new homes and apartments fell 15.5 per cent last month, capping the worst year for builds since at least 1959. And initial jobless benefit claims rose to a seasonally adjusted 589,000 in the week ended Saturday, the highest level since 1982, the Labor Department said. Investors have largely brushed off 4.2 million barrels a day of production cuts announced by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries since September. There are signs OPEC has been implementing the cuts, but demand has evaporated faster. 'The ability of OPEC to influence the market has really been curtailed as spare capacity increases,' Burg said. 'There's such a margin to cover for any possible shortfall that the market is fairly unconcerned about any further cuts.' 
