NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Rising shares of Citigroup Inc  (C:  C  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  and Bank of America  (BAC:  BAC  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  lifted the broader financial sector on a day when both firms reported bad news in the form of dismal financial results, but also unveiled some better news, about plans to restructure and to receive money from the government. Citigroup shares rose 14% after it said Friday that it will realign into two businesses, Citicorp and Citi Holdings, in effect reverting to running a banking business similar to its operations before Sandy Weill and his team turned the firm into a financial supermarket over the last decade. And, Bank of America shares rose about 6% after The U.S. government on Friday announced it was injecting $20 billion into Bank of America and guaranteeing losses on over $400 billion of assets from both Citigroup and the Charlotte, N.C. lender. In the broader financial sector, the Financial Select Sector SPDR  (XLF:  XLF  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , ) , an ETF that tracks the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, added about 3%.  Print  Disable Live Quotes  Subscribe to RSS  More Market Pulse  4 minutes ago  8 minutes ago  9 minutes ago  Top stories  8:14 AM today  4:00 AM today  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2009 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
