LONDON (MarketWatch) -- U.S. stock futures traded lower Thursday as worries about the health of Apple CEO Steve Jobs spelled pressure in the tech sector, while in-line results at J.P. Morgan Chase weren't enough to restore faith in the financial sector. S&amp;P 500 futures (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 9.7 points to 830.10 and Dow industrial futures (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 69 points, while futures on the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shed 17 points to 1,148.50 'Fears of a recession and bad news from the financial industry continued to affect global equity markets,' said Adrian Brunner, an analyst at Swiss bank Vontobel. J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM:JPM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which brought forward its earnings report by a week, turned 2% lower in pre-open trade as the New York giant met expectations with a $702 million, or seven cents a share, profit in the fourth quarter. Still, that profit is down from $3 billion in the prior-year quarter. Bank of America (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) slipped 7% as The Wall Street Journal reported it's close to getting billions of dollars more in aid to close its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. Dan Greenhaus, an equity strategist at Miller Tabak, said the government has a duty to help out Bank of America and others that bought troubled financials. 'I highly doubt the government, after turning to these companies for help, is going to leave them hanging with the negative repercussions of their shotgun marriages,' he said. Apple (AAPL:AAPL Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shed 8% as Jobs announced late Wednesday that he is going to take medical leave. Tim Cook, chief operating officer, is taking day-to-day control. Thursday features plenty of data, with wholesale inflation, manufacturing gauges from both the New York and Philadelphia areas and weekly jobless claims due for release. RealtyTrac reported that foreclosures in December rose 17% from the prior month and 41% for a year ago. After the close, the world's top chipmaker, Intel (INTC:INTC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , reports results, as does key biotech Genentech (DNA:DNA Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) . The European Central Bank chopped rates by a half-point to 2%, an expected cut after a flurry of weak economic data out of the euro zone. The euro slipped 0.4% and the pan-European Dow Jones Stoxx 600 turned lower, along with U.S. futures, after the decision. In Asia, stocks plummeted, with the Nikkei 225 dropping 4.9% and the Hang Seng closing 4.6% lower in Hong Kong. 'People tried to talk themselves into investing in the market, but the global economic situation is only getting worse. Now they're starting to see the picture and can't fool themselves. So, they've started selling all over again,' said Steve Cheng, associate director at Shenyin Wanguo. U.S. stocks dropped sharply Wednesday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling for the sixth time in a row, as retail sales dropped sharply and as Citigroup's stock skidded below $5. The Dow industrials lost 248 points, the S&amp;P 500 sliding 29 points and the Nasdaq Composite losing 56 points. Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch's London bureau chief.
