SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- The dollar recovered against the yen Friday but slipped against other major counterparts, as Washington's latest bank rescue stemmed recent safe-haven flows and weighed on lower-yielding currencies. Early Friday, the U.S. Treasury announced it would inject $20 billion into Bank of America Corp. It also will provide a backstop against losses on some $118 billion in assets as the banking giant struggles to digest its acquisition of troubled brokerage Merrill Lynch.  'The additional funds provided to B. of A. is the only reason why the dollar is rallying against the Japanese yen, and why we are seeing a recovery in all of the higher-yielding pairs such as the euro/dollar and pound/dollar,' said Kathy Lien, director of currency research at GFT. News of financial-sector support also came from across the Atlantic. The Irish government said it would nationalize Anglo Irish Bank, the country's third-largest lender.  Financial-sector relief 'is positive for growth-sensitive currencies and broadly negative for the U.S. dollar,' according to strategists at HBOS. But foreign-exchange traders cast a wary eye over sizable fourth-quarter losses reported Friday by Bank of America (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) as well as fellow blue-chip Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) .  The dollar index ($DXY:$DXY Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which measures the greenback against a basket of six major currencies, stood at 84.037, down from 84.556 in late North American activity Thursday. The euro rose to $1.3271, up from $1.3136 in late trading Thursday. The British pound also gained on the greenback, rising 0.6% to $1.4736. Against the British pound, the euro changed hands at 90.01 pence, up from 89.65 pence. The yen, which has been the primary beneficiary of renewed safe-haven flows amid heightened banking-sector jitters and recent equity plunges, was broadly lower. The dollar bought 90.68 yen, up from 89.86 yen late Thursday. The euro rose to 120.40 yen from 118.02 yen. Lower interest rates typically weigh on a currency, because they reduce the return on assets denominated in that currency. But when investors are risk-averse, these currencies tend to rise, as people shed higher-yielding investments funded in the lower-yielding currencies. With a benchmark of 0.3%, Japan's rate was the lowest in the developed world, until the U.S. Federal Reserve brought its own benchmark down to an even lower range last month. 'With financial markets poised for another bout of selling, the confluence of lower rates and weaker economic data outside the US is expected to bolster the U.S. dollar on safe-haven risk aversion similar to what was seen in October,' said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at the Bank of New York Mellon. On the U.S. data front, the Labor Department said inflation fell 0.7% in December, marking the smallest annual gain in 54 years.  Economists surveyed by MarketWatch expected the consumer-price index to drop 0.8% last month. Core prices, excluding energy and food, were flat, matching expectations. A report from the Federal Reserve showed U.S. industrial production dropped 2% in December, after a revised 1.3% drop in the previous month. Production is now down in four of the past five months.  Another government report showed demand for long-term U.S. assets fell to $21.7 billion in November, compared with $400 million in October. But the grim data 'only had a limited impact on the dollar because much of the bad news has already been baked in,' said Ashraf Laidi, chief market strategist at CMC Markets. 'The bigger surprises will come from earnings which is why we are keeping a close eye on equities.' Separately, the University of Michigan's latest consumer-sentiment survey showed a slight gain in early January from late December. Consumer sentiment rose in early January to a reading of 61.9 from 60.1 in late December, according to a survey released Friday by the University of Michigan and Reuters.  Analysts polled by MarketWatch were looking for a January result of 59. While lower prices have provided some relief, sentiment remains at relatively low levels, as worries persist over ongoing job losses. Lisa Twaronite reports for MarketWatch from San Francisco. is a reporter for MarketWatch in London.
