* Deutsche Bank loss, HSBC, Citi fuel bank jitters  * Retail sales, Beige book reports on tap  * For up-to-the-minute market news, click [STXNEWS/US]  NEW YORK, Jan 14 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures slid on Wednesday as news pointing to more upheaval in the banking sector fueled fears of further credit losses.  Bank stocks were set to be the top drags after Germany's Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE) (DB.N) posted a loss of about $6.4 billion for the last three months of 2008. For details see [ID:nLE146935].  Even more unnerving to investors was a forecast by Morgan Stanley analysts that HSBC (HSBA.L) (HBC.N), Europe's biggest bank, is likely to halve its dividend and may need to raise up to $30 billion of capital. [ID:nLE245760]  Also helping to underscore the persistent bank sector turmoil was a deal announced by Citigroup (C.N) after the bell on Tuesday in which the embattled U.S. bank agreed to sell a controlling stake in its Smith Barney retail brokerage business to Morgan Stanley (MS.N) for $2.7 billion. [ID:nN13422148]  'There's more bad news than good news this morning, especially in the financial sector,' said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst Jefferies &amp; Co in Boston. 'That's what's putting a major weight on the market.'  S&amp;P 500 futures SPc1 shed 6.90 points, and were below fair value, a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract. Dow Jones industrial average futures DJc1 declined 62 points, while Nasdaq 100 NDc1 futures lost 8.25 points.  Bank stocks were the top drags on stock markets in Europe, where benchmark indexes were down 2 percent or more.  Analysts have said the Smith Barney sale was a precursor to the break-up of Citigroup and suggested the bank must be urgently seeking to replenish capital due to mounting losses.  The financial sector unease came a day before JPMorgan (JPM.N) was due to release quarterly results after it moved up its reporting date.  According to Thomson Reuters data, expectations for JPMorgan have been fast eroding. A month ago it was expected to earn 27 cents per share in the fourth quarter. Two days ago that view was down to 5 cents. Before the bell, the view was a penny before special items.  On Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said more steps were needed to stabilize banks, reviving the idea of authorities sopping up toxic assets from banks' books.  Wednesday's economic diary includes December retail sales data at 8.30 a.m. (1330 GMT) and a Fed snapshot of regional economic conditions, the Beige Book, at 2 p.m. (1900 GMT). Continued...  
