More Money &amp; Markets  NEW YORK  The reality of rising losses at Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. sank in on Wall Street today, making investors increasingly pessimistic about the struggling financial industry and forcing them to give back a big early gain.  The market initially focused not on the losses at the big banks but on the steps they were taking to improve their profitability.  Bank of America reached a deal late Thursday to receive an additional $20 billion in capital from the government. The bank will also receive guarantees to cover up to $118 billion in losses on loans and securities backed by residential and commercial real estate as it incorporates recently acquired Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. into its operations. Bank of Americas deal with the government is similar to one Citigroup reached with the government last fall.  John Merrill, chief investment officer of Tanglewood Wealth Management, said the change in direction today was not surprising.  Every time the government does something, there is an initial and fleeting excitement this will help, Merrill said. But (investors) look deeper and see, wow, this is a mess. Merrill said investors dont have any insights into where future profitability will come from at banks. Current capital coming from the sale of assets and investments from the government are only enough to help support current lending levels, not enough to enable banking companies to increase operations, he added.  Citigroup, among the hardest hit by the ongoing credit and mortgage market turmoil, said it plans to split in two, separating its traditional banking business from its riskier operations.  Earlier in the week, Citi agreed to sell a majority stake in its brokerage business to Morgan Stanley as it looks to streamline operations and shed assets Citi said it lost $8.29 billion, or $1.72 per share, during the final three months of the year. Bank of America said it lost $2.39 billion, or 48 cents per share.  Bank of America shares tumbled 90 cents, or 10.8 percent, to $7.42. Shares of Citi fell 4 cents to $3.79.  In early afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 54.72, or 0.67 percent, to 8,157.77. The Standard &amp; Poors 500 index fell 6.70, or 0.79 percent, to 837.04, while the Nasdaq composite index declined 11.38, or 0.75 percent, to 1,500.46.  Alexander Paris, economist and market analyst for Chicago-based Barrington Research, said the price swings seen in the past couple of days are likely to continue in the coming weeks as the bulk of large-capitalization companies announce earnings.  Were going into a test of the market, given the bad numbers coming out, Paris said. Its a battle between sentiment and ugly fundamentals. Tanglewoods Merrill said the market will be eyeing results outside the financial industry to see if banking troubles are seeping further into the broader economy. If non-financials can show some growth, it could restart the late 2008 rally that stalled in the first week of January.  Theres no sustained buying, Merrill said. The follow through just isnt there. The lack of broad-based buying allows for sharp retreats such as that seen today, he added.  The market also responded today to the governments latest reports showing the economy remains weak.  The Labor Department said the consumer price index fell 0.7 percent in December as energy prices slid. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters forecast a 0.9 percent drop. For the full year, prices rose just 0.1 percent  the smallest gain since prices actually fell in 1954.  Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve said industrial production from the nations factories, mines and utilities fell a larger-than-expected 2 percent in December. Economists expected a 1 percent.  Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 792.1 million shares.  The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 8.79, or 1.90 percent, to 453.83.  Oil prices fell 86 cents to $34.54. The dollar mostly fell against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.  Bond prices fell. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, rose to 2.29 percent from 2.20 percent late Thursday. The yield on the three-month T-bill, considered one of the safest investments, rose to 0.12 percent from 0.10 percent late Thursday.  Overseas, Japans Nikkei stock average rose 2.6 percent.  Britains FTSE 100 gained 0.9 percent, Germanys DAX index rose 0.7 percent, and Frances CAC-40 was rose 0.7 percent.  
