HONG KONG (Reuters) - Asia stocks rose slightly on Thursday, with investors snapping up beaten down bank shares, but with global economic gloom still pervasive, safety trades such as the yen and U.S. Treasuries also climbed. A slew of reports in the region showed a rapid drop in growth and collapse in export markets in Asia, suggesting it may be a while before a recovery takes hold and provides support for investor willingness to take risks. Chinese economic growth slowed to a seven-year low in 2008 and Japanese exports had a record decline in December.  Sony forecasts bigger-than-expected loss  TOKYO (Reuters) - Sony Corp  on Thursday forecast a much bigger-than-expected annual operating loss, its first annual loss in 14 years due to a sharp appreciation in the yen, steep price falls and restructuring costs. The maker of Bravia LCD TVs, Cyber-shot digital cameras and PlayStation game consoles now expects an operating loss of 260 billion yen ($2.9 billion) for the year ending March 31, down from a 475.3 billion yen profit a year earlier.  Liquidity fears, outlook hit Nova Chemicals shares  CALGARY, Alberta (Reuters) - Nova Chemicals Corp shares skidded by more than a quarter on Wednesday, after a report raised liquidity concerns about Canada's largest maker of raw plastics as it copes with the weak economy. The Globe and Mail newspaper said Nova has C$1.1 billion in debt coming due over the next two years and has gone to its bankers to seek better terms.  RBC and Scotiabank up size of preferred share offer  TORONTO (Reuters) - Two of Canada's big banks said on Wednesday they each plan to raise C$250 million ($198 million) in a preferred share offering, a move other domestic banks have taken recently to bolster their capital positions. Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Nova Scotia both announced share offerings of 8 million units at midafternoon. After market close, both banks announced they had increased the size of their offerings.  Energy issues lead TSX to 3 percent gain  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index finished almost 3 percent higher in a late-session rally on Wednesday as a jump in oil prices boosted energy shares. The oil and gas sector gained 4.4 percent as oil jumped nearly 7 percent as OPEC supply cuts outweighed evidence that a deepening global slowdown would crush fuel demand.  GM gets crucial $5.4 bln in U.S. funding  DETROIT (Reuters) - General Motors Corp said on Wednesday it had received a delayed payment of $5.4 billion under the emergency funding provided by the U.S. government to keep it in business. 'GM confirmed that it did receive today the second draw of its U.S. Treasury loan,' GM spokeswoman Renee Rashid-Merem said.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc's quarterly profit beat expectations on strong iPod and Mac computer sales, and the company gave an outlook that cheered investors, sending its shares up 9.5 percent on Wednesday. The results cap a tumultuous few weeks for Apple, which is facing increased headwinds from slumping consumer spending, as well as investor concerns about management succession after Chief Executive Steve Jobs said he would take a medical leave of absence until the end of June.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street is reining in its usual optimism for Google Inc as analysts worry the Web search leader's fourth-quarter earnings could be hit by keyword pricing deflation as the U.S. recession takes hold. Google, which reports earnings after markets close on Thursday, will likely meet or slightly beat most financial forecasts, said investors and analysts.  Workers assail Wal-Mart closing at Canada top court  OTTAWA (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc violated the rights of workers at a Quebec store when it closed the store following union organizing efforts, lawyers for the workers told the Supreme Court of Canada on Wednesday. The case has the potential for widespread repercussions as unions seek a foothold in Wal-Mart stores in Canada and the United States.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc named former Time Warner Inc Chief Executive Richard Parsons as its chairman, the latest high-level personnel change to shake a U.S. bank clobbered by the credit crunch. Parsons, 60, has been a director since 1996, a period marked by rapid growth followed by a precipitous decline. He succeeds Sir Win Bischoff, 66, who will retire from Citigroup later this year.  
