THE Australian resources sector is set to remain in survival mode in 2009 with commodity prices tipped to continue at low levels, forcing further production and staff cutbacks across the industry.  The second half of 2008 was one the industry was eager to farewell, with miners falling over -- from the top end to the juniors -- and major redundancies and production cutbacks announced.   A small rally at the start of 2009 had some hopeful that a better year was ahead.   But experts warn it is only a 'technical' move and further hardship is predicted throughout the year.   Any recovery in base metals prices is not expected in the first half of 2009. But by the end of the year or 2010, there could be an improvement in commodity prices if there is a lift in the economic environment in response to the stimulus packages announced by governments around the world.   While analysts are forecasting continued hardship for the sector this year, all still believe that the fundamentals for long-term demand for Australia's resources remains.   But the severity and speed of the downturn in the second half of 2008 caught everyone by surprise and many are cautious to confirm where prices are headed this year.   In a report published this week on the outlook for commodities in 2009, Goldman Sachs analyst Malcolm Southwood said he expected global offtake for most metals and minerals to contract. 'With gold the most plausible exception, we expect 2009 annual average commodity prices to be considerably lower versus 2008, with negative implications for resources sector earnings,' he said in the report.   The analysts predict bulk commodity markets will move into annual surplus in 2009, with significant price falls inevitable. But China is being highlighted as a buffer to further deterioration. 'Generally, we believe that China holds the key to sentiment on the commodities markets this year,' Mr Southwood said. 'We expect a very weak first half in 2009, but as de-stocking runs its course and stimulus spending kicks in, we believe that China's second half 2009 demand for raw materials is likely to improve -- providing a positive catalyst for resources sector investment.' Commonwealth Bank commodity strategist David Moore said the international economy would continue to be a 'significant headwind' for base metals prices.   He added that the key end markets for base metals, including the automobile industry, would be a residing factor on any change in demand. 'International economies are weak and most base metals markets are in surplus for 2009, which will limit any potential in the first half of the year for there to be any immediate recovery in metals prices,' Mr Moore said. But he said he did not expect base metals prices to fall much below the lows recorded in the second half of 2008. 'Metals prices fell remarkably in 2008 and most reached a point where prices had fallen to the extent there were production cutbacks,' he said. 'That is going to be a factor in limiting the scope for further falls in commodity prices this year.' Because of the aggressive moves to curtail output, Goldman Sachs also said that for some commodities, it expected a less severe inventory build than had typically occurred in previous downturns. 'It is notable that the market is currently focused on the short-term impact of the credit crisis on demand for raw materials,' Mr Southwood said. 'In the medium and longer term, we believe that financing difficulties will result in major delays to capital expenditure that would have delivered the next generation of commodity supply. 'This suggests that as global demand recovers, the shortages of some key raw materials could become even more acute than during the past four years.' With base metals continuing to hover at lows, gold shone through the commodity carnage in 2008 and is expected to be a star performer in 2009 as the market looks for some positives among sinking prices.   Buying physical gold also became a popular investment in the later half of 2008, with the Perth Mint forced to suspend orders to meet demand and industry insiders speculating it was close to impossible now to buy physical gold anywhere in the world.   ANZ Bank senior commodities analyst Mark Pervan said 2008 had been a 'pretty good year' for gold compared with other commodities. He said 2008 'was a strong year for gold. It was a little choppy in parts but compared to other commodities it was one of the strong performers. 'It has also not necessarily been the traditional drivers -- such as the US dollar and oil prices -- driving the gold price. 'The heightened level of uncertainty saw safe-haven buying in the second half of the year, which was a turning point for gold.' He said that in the first quarter of 2009, continued safe-haven buying of gold was expected.   Kingsgate Consolidated managing director Gavin Thomas said gold would continue to be a natural hedge against the fiscal issues 'bouncing around' the world. 'When the US dollar crashes, it won't be perceived as a safe haven any more and gold will be seen as a flight to fancy,' Mr Thomas said. 'Gold will have a lot of pressure on it this year, when the US dollar starts to come under pressure.' He said this year would be 'a strong year for the precious metal. There are few sectors that will outperform, but gold will.' Lihir Gold general manager corporate affairs Joe Dowling said that in Australian dollar terms, gold was trading at close to record levels. 'The price has continued to drift up and down but it has been questioned as to why it wasn't stronger in the second half of 2008 given the turmoil in the financial markets,' he said. 'In that environment, we saw a lot of redemptions as investors were forced to sell gold for liquidity reasons.' Gold producers are not only benefiting from the healthy price but also from a decrease in costs, which had previously affected margins and resulted in miners not expanding at levels expected to match the price. 'The declining oil price will have a positive effect for gold stocks in 2009, as we will start to see an easing up on upward pressures on costs,' Lihir's Mr Dowling said.   He added that previous pressures had led to a shakeout in the gold sector, with consolidation among some miners and overseas companies taking on assets. 'Consolidation is expected to continue in the industry as we are seeing reasonable gold assets coming on to the market,' he said. 
