Mumbai: Laurence D. Fink, chairman and CEO of BlackRock Inc., the worlds largest listed asset management company, managing in excess of $1.3 trillion (Rs63.5 trillion), was in India on Thursday visiting the Indian mutual fund house his company partly owns. As part of a September 2006 deal that merged Merrill Lynch and Co. Inc.s asset management company with BlackRock, Mumbai-based DSP Merrill Lynch Fund Managers Ltd became DSP BlackRock Investment Managers Ltd. Incidentally, Fink was in the running to take over as chairman and CEO of Merrill Lynch in late 2007, following the investment banking entitys struggles with bad assets and the sacking of then CEO Stanley O Neal. It was a job that ultimately went to John A. Thain, former CEO of New York Stock Exchange. In hindsight, it was probably good for Fink. The embattled Merrill Lynch eventually had to be taken over by Bank of America Corporation, and Thain was asked to resign. I said that as a condition for me to consider the job, I need to go inside and have myself and my risk team to evaluate the Merrill Lynch balance sheet. I was never allowed. Mr Thain took the job and did not ask to see whats inside, said Fink in an interview with Mint. He shares his thoughts on the new US treasury secretary Timothy Geithners lifeline for Wall Street. As for DSP BlackRock, Fink hopes to expand in India this year while others are contracting. Edited excerpts: Most people seem to be unhappy with Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithners $2 trillion rescue plan for Wall Street being low on detail. What about you? I dont agree with them. I think what he said was right. Theres no magic wand. The Secretary told the world that this is going to take a long time. This is going to take months, and a longer period of low interest rates. He said there will be failures and that some home owners are not going to be protected. In the last one-and-a-half years, I think one of the reasons why the markets have continued to fall is because the (former) government had said, Were going to draw the line here and fix it. And (former treasury) secretary (Henry) Paulson said, Weve got a Bazooka here. I think what secretary Geithner has said is that this is a big giant problem, its going to take a long time and a lot of discipline to fix it, and there are going to be failures. People dont like it, but they were not going to like it anyway. The markets have reacted badly. How do you see things unfolding? The markets are trading badly, but overall, stability is closer at hand. Relatively speaking, youre one of the better placed asset managers today. In hindsight, is there something you think you did right that helped you during this period of crisis?
