Some board members at AIG, Citi, and others sit on three or four other boards, Corporate Library finds  Citigroup, McGraw-Hill, and Merrill Lynch had directors who sat on too many other corporate boards and who received an unusually high percentage of disapproval votes from shareholders, a research firm said today.  The findings stem from an effort by The Corporate Library, an independent research firm, to identify governance risk factors that may have contributed to the decline of more than a dozen mostly financial companies last year. The research excluded executive compensation.  American International Group Inc., like Citigroup and McGraw-Hill, which owns Standard &amp; Poors, had three board members who received unusually high disapproval votes from investors between July 2007 and December 2008, the report said.  In comparison to the largest U.S. companies, these numbers are truly remarkable, said Corporate Library chief analyst Ric Marshall. Poor corporate governance hastened the demise of companies facing exactly the same economic circumstances as some who have done much better.  Spokespersons at Citigroup, McGraw-Hill, AIG and Bank of America, which now owns Merrill, declined immediate comment today.  Sir Win Bischoff, the Citigroup chairman due to step down today, also was on the boards of McGraw-Hill and two other companies, according to the report.  The Corporate Library, which has tracked 3,000 companies, defines an unusually high degree of overboarding as simultaneous service on more than four boards.  At McGraw-Hill, Mr. Bischoff received the highest percentage of withhold votes from shareholders38.6%of any other board member examined in the study.  Shareholders can express their symbolic disapproval of managements board nominees by withholding their votes in annual balloting.  A 13% disapproval rating from shareholders is considered abnormally high, based on the firms research findings over the years, Mr. Marshall said.  Shareholders as a group tend to know a lot more about companies than management gives them credit for, Mr. Marshall said.  Mr. Bischoffs successor at Citigroup, board member Richard Parsons, the former Time Warner chairman and chief executive, got the sixth highest disapproval rating from shareholders. The report said 30.6% of Citigroup investors withheld their votes from him.  Many boards are so convinced theyre doing the right thing the right way that they rally around existing directors rather than look for fresh ideas, Mr. Marshall said in an interview.  Citigroup spokeswoman Shannon Bell declined to comment.  But Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit praised both Messrs. Bischoff and Parsons in a Jan. 21 statement announcing the change in chairmen.  Sir Win has been an outstanding board member and chairman as well as a trusted advisor to me during my time at Citi, Mr. Pandit said. He agreed to take on senior leadership roles at Citi more than a year ago during a critical time for the company, and over the years has made very substantial contributions to this global enterprise.  Of Mr. Parsons, Mr. Pandit said: Richard Parsons is already an invaluable asset to Citi. He is an outstanding business leader with a broad and deep understanding of the banking industry.  In the Citigroup statement, Mr. Parsons added: One of my top priorities will be to ensure the board remains committed to strong, independent corporate governanceespecially in todays challenging economic conditions.  One director in The Corporate Library study, South Florida real estate developer Armando Codina, received more than 13% withhold votes from shareholders at two companies, General Motors and Merrill Lynch.  If you were another director on either board, wouldnt you want to know why hes getting that percentage of withhold votes, and wouldnt you then question the suitability of that individual being on the board? Mr. Marshall said.  A spokesman for Mr. Codinas firm, Michael Goldfarb, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Xerox chairman and chief executive Anne Mulcahy also serves as a director at Citigroup and two other companies. At Citigroup, 23.3% of the votes for her were withheld by shareholders, the report said.  Shes got great experience, shes very intelligent, and she has a lot to offer to any board, Mr. Marshall said. But the likelihood is that shes not doing as good a service as she could simply because she sits on too many boards.  Xerox spokesman Michael Moeller did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Board oversight at financial institutions leading up to the financial crisis will be the subject of a Securities and Exchange Commission probe under new chairman Mary Schapiro, the Washington Post reported last week.  The Corporate Librarys research focused on 17 troubled companies, including AIG, Bank of America, Citigroup, Fannie Mae, Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley and Wachovia, for the 18-month period through the end of last year.  During this period, these companies lost over $1.3 trillion in shareholder value, the report said.  McGraw-Hills S&amp;P and Moodys, the biggest credit-rating agencies, have been sharply criticized by lawmakers and analysts for inflating the ratings on bonds consisting of pooled mortgages that later collapsed.  Reproductions and distribution of the above article are strictly prohibited. To order reprints and/or request permission to use the article in full or partial format please contact our Reprint Sales Manager at (732) 723-0569.  
