3:29 PM ET President Barack Obama's surprisingly ambitious $275 billion plan to help struggling homeowners was hailed by housing experts who had been critical of the Bush administration's low-budget approach to soaring foreclosures. The plan, which will start going into effect March 4, seeks to help 9 million homeowners by helping them refinance their Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac mortgages or rework loans by lowering interest and principal. It also offers financial incentives to mortgage servicers, lenders such as Citigroup and Bank of America, and homeowners to reduce monthly payments to 31% of income. Investors in securitized pools of mortgages also would have incentives to allow servicers of these loans to modify mortgages. "We've been using a squirt gun to put out the mortgage fire for the last two years, and this is a howitzer," said Alan White, a Valparaiso Law professor who has testified before Congress about his studies of mortgage modifications. "For the first time you can begin to see a path to the bottom of the housing market." Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said two weeks ago that the administration would provide $50 billion for struggling homeowners, drawing immediate criticism from House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank. Mr. Obama's plan would spend $75 billion on mortgage modifications, drawing down the $350 billion bailout money released by the Senate last month. It also calls for an additional $200 billion to be spent by Treasury in purchases of preferred stock from Fannie and Freddie, though this money would be provided under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act rather than from the bailout. That infusion will double the amount of money that the mortgage giants are already getting in federal aid. Moody'sEconomy.com researchers have estimated that there will be a record 1.9 million foreclosures this year, more than quadruple the number in the early part of this decade. With the Obama plan, foreclosures will be reduced to 1.7 million in 2010, predicted Celia Chen, Moody's senior director of housing economics. "This is a very positive move though it won't solve all the problems because there are too many distressed homeowners out there," she said. It could take as long as six months before the plan starts to show results, Ms. Chen said. "They're in a race against time," said Brookings Institution fellow Robert Litan, a former senior White House official under President Clinton. "Foreclosures are taking place rapidly as we speak. But this is more ambitious than anything we've had before." The plan's interest-rate reductions also are more targeted than those proposed by Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), he said. To be sure, not all housing experts were equally enthusiastic about the plan. "This will help marginally," Heritage Foundation fellow David John, who used to work for then-Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.), told CNBC-TV. "There's nothing really that can be done." Columbia Law professor Edward Morrison also questioned whether the plan is too costly and whether incentives to lenders such as Citigroup and Bank of America could be reduced. "We're in a period where we're spending billions without a good sense of the effectiveness of the dollars we're spending," said Mr. Morrison, who testified before Congress earlier this month. While the proposals outlined today wouldn't require legislation, a pillar of Mr. Obama's plan-allowing judges to modify mortgages on the main residences of bankrupt homeowners-has been proposed in bills before Congress. "The plan includes carrots, such as incentives for lenders to provide long-term affordable loans to borrowers, as well as an important stick-bankruptcy reform," said Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd (D-Ct.). Mr. Dodd helped lead futile congressional efforts to get former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to spend some of the $700 billion bailout money on housing, as required by legislation enacted last October. All financial institutions that get bailout aid going forward will be required to modify mortgages under Treasury guidelines. Large lenders such as J.P. Morgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America, and Wells Fargo account for most mortgages and already get federal assistance. "Banks and lenders must be held accountable for ending the practices that got us into this crisis in the first place," Mr. Obama said today in a speech in Phoenix. Write to the editors at fw_editor@financialweek.com.
