TOKYO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - SFCG Co Ltd, a lender to smaller companies, failed on Monday as tightening credit hits businesses throughout the Japanese economy, and shares of other non-bank lenders fell sharply amid fears of more problems ahead.   The failure of SFCG with debts of $3.6 billion, Japan's biggest bankruptcy filing in debt terms this year, would likely ripple through the stock market as it would make financing even more difficult for small and medium firms, an analyst said. 'SFCG's failure might become the first stage of a second round of the financial crisis,' said Norihito Fujito, general manager at the investment research and information division of Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.  Shares in rival finance firm Takefuji Corp tumbled 10.3 percent while Aiful Corp fell 11.7 percent, but money markets held their ground.  In seeking cort protection from creditors under bankruptcy law, SFCG said it had outstanding commercial paper of just 1.5 billion yen ($16 million).  The lender, which had borrowed heavily from foreign banks including Lehman Brothers, suffered from unrecoverable losses from property-backed loans to small and mid-sized companies.   It has also been slammed by tighter interest rate regulations in the consumer lender industry, forcing it to repay previous interest that had been ruled to be too high.  SFCG filed for court protection under bankruptcy law with 338 billion yen ($3.6 billion) in debt, saying it had not been able to cope with mounting losses in its mainstay secured-loans businesses thanks to rising bankruptcies, sinking property prices and weak demand for new loans.  A record 33 listed companies went under in Japan last year with most of them being hit by tightened lending by banks. 'The move shows that there is extremely severe credit tightening happening in Japan,' Fujito said. 'We'll need to watch out small REIT and real estate companies' businesses as many of them are SFCG borrowers. The business outlook for non-bank firms is also a concern.' Creditors to SFCG include Citibank, HypoVereinsbank, Shinsei Trust &amp; Banking Co, and Orix Trust and Banking Corp.  Shares in SFCG were untraded with a glut of sellers at 1,092 yen, down 200 yen or 15.5 percent.  The Nikkei average fell 0.2 percent, erasing early losses after a media report that the U.S. government may end up owning as much as 40 percent of major U.S. bank Citigroup, while money markets were also unaffected by SFCG. 'The money market is calm today and I do not get the sense that there is any impact,' said an official at a Japanese money broker. 'The amount of commercial paper is also very small, so I think it is safe to think that there will be no impact on the market.'. 
