NEW YORK: Bank of America Corp Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis told investors in September he was pleased to acquire Merrill Lynch &amp; Co's 'world-class' investment bank, but as losses there mount, he may just let that part of the business wither.  And now that the government has a taken a large stake in the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, investment banking may become even less attractive.  'Regulatory requirements are going to dramatically reduce the amount of risk that Bank of America is allowed to take,' said Jaime Peters, an analyst at Morningstar Inc in Chicago.  Risk-taking is central to proprietary trading and helped drive large profits at banks, including Merrill, in recent years.  'Since Bank of America is an at least partly nationalized entity, the risks and the capital required to operate a gigantic bulge-bracket (investment) bank may be viewed with disfavor by the largest stockholder - now Uncle Sam,' said George Ball, chairman of the Sanders Morris Harris Group in Houston, an investment firm with about $8.6 billion in assets.  B of A - which paid more for Merrill than the bank's current entire market capitalization - is now more interested in wealth management, Merrill's other large business. Wealth management is less capital intensive than investment banking because it does not involve lending to finance deals and companies.  In any case, Lewis' new found interest in investment banking surprised some who remembered his famous statement in October 2007 that he had had 'all the fun I can stand in investment banking.'  And as Bank of America tries to recover after reporting its first quarterly loss in 17 years and taking $45 billion in government funds since October, the investment bank may be an easy target for cost-cutting now that business there is slowing.  The company said in December it plans to cut up to 35,000 jobs - or as much as 11.4 per cent of workforce including former Merrill staff - over three years.  'They're making some fairly extensive cuts and in addition you would expect other businesses would bounce back quite a bit,' said Peters.  
