 ANNE DAVIES  THE chairman of the US Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, has said the country's recession may be over by the end of the year provided the measures enacted by the Obama Administration worked.  The more hopeful note came as Mr Bernanke ruled out seizing control of the banks and nationalising them.  'If actions taken by the Administration, the Congress and the Federal Reserve are successful in restoring some measure of financial stability - and only if that is the case, in my view - there is a reasonable prospect that the current recession will end in 2009 and that 2010 will be a year of recovery,' Mr Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee.  The Federal Reserve, the Treasury and banking officials plan to take bigger stakes in troubled organisations considered too big to fail, such as Citigroup, Bank of America, and the insurance giant AIG.  Mr Bernanke's comments provided the clearest signal yet that US authorities hope to support major banks as going concerns in the private markets, taking equity stakes to shore up their capital in what would amount to partial nationalisations.  Asked whether the 'stress tests' on the top 20 financial institutions would lead to regulators taking outright control of some banks, Mr Bernanke said: 'I do not see any reason to destroy the franchise value or to create the huge legal uncertainties of trying to formally nationalise a bank when it just is not necessary.'  Stocks rose in response, with the S&amp;P 500 index rising 4 per cent from the previous session's 12-year lows. Citigroup and Bank of America rose about 21 per cent.  Mr Bernanke said there were other ways to 'exert adequate control to make sure they are doing what is necessary to become healthy and viable'.  Republicans have accused Mr Bernanke of proposing nationalisation. 'It seems to me what you have explained is a creeping nationalisation of our banks,' a Republican, Bob Corker, said.  Mr Bernanke said there would be some public ownership as a result, but it was necessary to combat the effects that would make the recession more severe.  Citigroup is in discussions with Treasury over a further injection of capital on top of the $US45 billion ($69 billion) that has been invested.  AIG has so far received $US130 billion in taxpayer funds but is expected to report this week the biggest quarterly loss in US history of around $US60 billion.
