 New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo has accused Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. of secretly moving up its bonus payments to assure they were paid out to the firm's executives before fourth-quarter losses -- more than $15 billion -- came to light. The payments were made as Bank of America Corp. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) was working toward completing the acquisition of the brokerage and investment bank. The deal closed on Jan. 1. Merrill's huge fourth-quarter loss was disclosed as Bank of America announced its financial results on Jan. 16 -- the same day that the U.S. government injected $20 billion into the acquirer.  The timing of when exactly Bank of America executives learned of Merrill's losses and bonuses emerged as a bone of contention between Ken Lewis, chief executive of Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America, and John Thain, who stepped down as Merrill's CEO last month.  In a letter to House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank, Cuomo said he had asked Merrill in October to detail their bonus plan. The letter became public late Tuesday. Merrill responded to Cuomo in November, saying that any bonuses would be based on performance and retention needs. Merrill provided no further details, he said. 'Rather, in a surprising fit of corporate irresponsibility, it appears that, instead of disclosing their bonus plans in a transparent way as requested by my office, Merrill Lynch secretly moved up the planned date to allocate bonuses and then richly rewarded their failed executives,' Cuomo wrote Frank, D-Mass. Cuomo said that Merrill had never before paid bonuses so early. 'One disturbing question that must be answered,' Cuomo told Frank, 'is whether Merrill Lynch and Bank of America timed the bonuses in such a way as to force taxpayers to pay for them through the deal funding. 'We plan to require top officials at both Merrill Lynch and Bank of America to answer this question and to provide justifications for the massive bonuses they paid ahead of their massive losses.' Cuomo also detailed how the bonus pool was spread among staff. He said that while the bonus pool encompassed 39,000 employees, the lion's share went to a relatively small number of executives. 'Merrill chose to make millionaires out of a select group of 700 employees,' Cuomo said. Cuomo's office determined that $121 million was doled out to the biggest four bonus recipients, who were not identified by the attorney general. The next four biggest beneficiaries split a total $62 million in bonuses, while another six divvied up $66 million. As to the size of individual bonuses, Cuomo said 14 staffers got bonuses of $10 million or more and 20 received bonuses of at least $8 million, while a group of about 200 got $3 million or more. 'These payments and their curious timing raise serious questions as to whether the Merrill Lynch and Bank of America boards of directors were derelict in their duties and violated their fiduciary obligations,' Cuomo said. Greg Morcroft is MarketWatch's financial editor in New York.
