Wachovia Corp. almost collapsed in 2008, but it never lost sight of keeping the customer happy. For the eighth year in a row, the Charlotte bank placed first among large banks in the highly regarded American Customer Satisfaction Index, scheduled for release today. But even though it came in first, the bank's score fell from 2007, as did the industry average. But that should surprise no one, considering the tumult 2008 brought to the banking industry.   Wachovia's buyer, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, scored below the industry average but improved significantly over the previous year. The index ranked the two banks separately because Wells didn't buy Wachovia until Dec. 31. Charlotte's Bank of America Corp. also improved its score.   Laura Schulte, a Wells veteran who was recently named to lead the combined bank's eastern community banking unit, noted Wachovia's score was especially remarkable because the survey was done in the fourth quarter. Wachovia announced it would be bought just two days before the fourth quarter started.   Wachovia's reputation for customer service is a trait Wells has often touted since agreeing to buy the bank. Schulte said Wachovia customers shouldn't see many front-line employee changes as the banks integrate.   The American Customer Satisfaction Index, or ACSI, is in its 15th year of measuring customer satisfaction in a broad variety of sectors. Using a 100-point scale, it gauges customers' reactions to service, prices, the products offered and other criteria.   The survey measures customer satisfaction with retail, finance and insurance, and e-commerce. Satisfaction with banks overall fell -- the industry scored 75 this year, down from 78 last year -- as did satisfaction with online retail sites like Amazon and online brokerage sites like E*TRADE and TD Ameritrade.   Satisfaction with health insurance companies, department stores and discount stores all increased. So did satisfaction with gas stations -- a fact that Claes Fornell, head of the ACSI, attributes to falling prices.   Fornell thinks the banks' decline is partly because many are cutting staff or closing branches to save money, which can hamper service. Mergers and acquisitions often result in dissatisfied customers. The industry's consolidation is also creating fewer, bigger banks; small companies almost always score higher than large ones, Fornell said.   Credit unions, included for the first time, scored an overall 84, probably because they seem more like mom-and-pops that can offer more personalized service, he said.   As for Wachovia, Fornell said, 'It shows that if you make too risky bets, even great customer relationships can't save you.' Wells improved its score to 72 from 69. Fornell said Wells' emphasis on cross-selling may be helping. It sells an average of five products to each customer, compared to an industry average of two, according to the ACSI. 'Also, they came from a very low score, so perhaps it's easier to move up,' Fornell said. Schulte noted how Wells and Wachovia survey about 60,000 customers each month, combined, to make sure they're happy with their experiences. An executive team called One Wells Fargo, similar to Wachovia's Office of the President, regularly gathers executives from different units to brainstorm on service.   Bank of America, which has traditionally focused on acquisitions over service, improved its score to 73 from 72. Spokeswoman Sara Campbell said, 'We are continually looking at ways to make it easy to bank with Bank of America. In our banking centers, we've also increased our focus on ensuring we're solving our customers' problems the first time they contact us.' 
