WASHINGTON: Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke spurned outright federal control of US banks in favour of a public-private partnership that the government would eventually exit.  Bernanke told lawmakers on Tuesday that the government would use supervision instead of shareholder control to guide major banks, and warned against dismantling their franchises.  The remarks eased concern Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithners financial plan would push aside private shareholders, and spurred the biggest gain in financial shares in a month.  Bloomberg  NEW YORK: Merrill Lynch &amp; Co said on Tuesday it lost US$15.84bil in the fourth quarter, about US$533mil more than the loss previously estimated by Bank of America Corp.  In its annual report filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Merrill also revealed material weaknesses in its controls over financial reporting as of the end of its fiscal year on Dec 26, 2008.  Merrill agreed to be acquired by Bank of America last Sept 15, the same morning that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc went bankrupt, after a weekend of hasty talks.  Reuters  MICHIGAN: Ford Motor Co executive chairman Bill Ford and chief executive officer Alan Mulally will take 30% pay cuts and the unprofitable carmakers salaried workers will forgo 2009 bonuses, according to a company memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Local officers of the United Auto Workers, the automakers biggest union, also yesterday approved concessions and set March 9 as a target date to get approval from rank-and-file members.  The concessions include buyouts worth as much as US$75,000 and cuts in overtime and layoff benefits, people familiar with the tentative agreement said.  Bloomberg  TOKYO: Citigroup Inc may sell both its Japanese investment bank and brokerage, according to media reports, as the faltering US lender looks to raise more cash from a sale of global assets.  The two units could bring in hundreds of billions of yen if sold together, Jiji Press and the Sankei newspaper said yesterday.  Nikko Cordial, the retail brokerage, may alone raise up to 300 billion yen (US$3.1bil), sources with knowledge of the matter have said.  However, one person familiar with Citigroups strategy said selling Nikko Citigroup, the investment banking unit, was not part of Citis plans as it was vital to the groups presence in the worlds second-biggest economy.  Reuters  
