Kirsten Valle and Rick Rothacker - The Charlotte Observer  Modified Sun, Feb. 01, 2009 12:43AM  E-Mail Print  Text Size:  tool name  tool goes here  Charlotte, known for its thriving financial services sector, is reeling from a global banking crisis that has eroded the city's wealth and chipped away at its identity.  Residents cringed as Wachovia crumbled and fell into the arms of Wells Fargo. Then Bank of America's stock price and dividend plunged to historic lows.  Last week, Bank of America's total stock value was around $42 billion, down from around $183 billion in 2007. This year, the bank is expected to pay around $254 million in dividends. In 2007, it paid $10.7 billion. Both banks are laying off thousands.  More Local &amp; State  But the financial consequences of the banking meltdown reach beyond those directly connected to the big banks. From law firms to restaurants to retailers, the loss of bank jobs, stock value and rich dividend checks has led to rising unemployment and shattered bottom lines.  The fall in Bank of America's stock price and dividend has reverberated through the community of former executives and employees. The hit affects mountain and beach communities, but it is centered in Charlotte.  Will the downturn cost Charlotte its image as a glittering town full of promise and prosperity?  The rise and fall  'Charlotte has been riding high for two decades,' said Mike Walden, an economist at N.C. State University. 'This is a shock.'  For years, financial services companies have dominated Charlotte's paychecks. The sector accounted for more than one-fifth of Mecklenburg County's private wages in 2007, paying out $5.6 billion, more than seven times the 1990 amount.  Charlotte grew wealthier, too. By 2007, Mecklenburg's median household income had jumped to $65,700, far higher than in surrounding areas and higher than the national average, $50,230.  Now, the city stands to lose many of its highest-paid jobs. Wells Fargo plans to start cutting redundant positions this year. Bank of America is in the midst of cutting up to 42,500 jobs as part of its Merrill Lynch and Countrywide Financial acquisitions.  Some of those cuts are in higher-paying investment banking positions.  Both banks are slashing employee bonuses, which can make up a significant portion of workers' annual income.  Meanwhile, shareholders' wealth is crumbling. Wachovia shares slid nearly 85 percent last year, and the bank's annual dividend fell to $1.12 per share in 2008 from $2.40 in 2007. Wells is still paying a dividend, but in the takeover, Wachovia shareholders received one-fifth of a Wells share for each Wachovia share.  Bank of America shares closed at $6.58 on Friday, down 80 percent since September, when the bank announced plans to buy Merrill Lynch.  The bank's biggest individual shareholders are C.D. and Meredith Spangler, a Charlotte couple, who own 32 million shares within their family and other entities.  C.D. Spangler is a businessman, investor and philanthropist and a mainstay on Forbes magazine's annual billionaire list. He gained his first shares in the bank in 1982 when he sold a small community bank to Bank of America's predecessor. Meredith Spangler is a current board member.  Their stake was worth $210 million as of Friday, down from $850 million in September. The Spanglers' dividend this year will probably be around $1.3 million, down from $76.8 million in 2007.  Didn't mean to gamble  For investors such as John Burke of Salisbury, the banks' troubles have led to a less comfortable retirement.  Burke, 75, invested in Bank of America and Wachovia about five years ago.  'If anything,' he said, 'it was going to go up. It was a retirement investor's dream.'  
