WASHINGTON (Reuters)  The director of the U.S. Office of Thrift Supervision, which largely regulates mortgage lenders, will step down on February 27, the agency said on Thursday.  The departure of John Reich, a Bush appointee, was widely expected. Scott Polakoff, the agency's senior deputy director, will become acting director until President Barack Obama appoints a new director.  Under Reich the agency saw two huge mortgage lenders fail last year, Washington Mutual and IndyMac Bank, mainly to due to liquidity problems as the housing market declined.  The banking business of Washington Mutual, once the largest U.S. mortgage lender, was acquired by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.  Washington Mutual's failure in September, with about $307 billion in assets and $188 billion of deposits, was the largest insolvency in U.S. banking history.  In July, IndyMac was seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, which took over its assets, including mortgages that were modified and promoted as a model for future loan modifications. In January it was announced that a private investor group was buying IndyMac assets from the FDIC.  Countrywide Financial Corp, which was also regulated by the OTS and faced mounting mortgage losses, agreed last year to be acquired by Bank of America Corp.  With the housing market declining and many servicers unwilling to modify troubled mortgages due to fears of being sued by mortgage securities investors, the OTS proposed a plan in March 2008 aimed at modifying mortgages to prevent foreclosures.  Under the plan, mortgages would be rewritten to reflect the lower value of the home. The difference from the original value would be captured in a 'negative equity certificate' that the servicer could cash in if the home were sold later at a higher value, allowing the servicer to recoup losses.  The plan met a lukewarm reception by servicers who did not want to wait for the housing market to recover or be caught holding the bag if housing prices failed to rise.  'I am tremendously proud of the enormous efforts by OTS employees to preserve the health of the U.S. thrift industry and I feel confident that those efforts will continue under my successor,' Reich said in a statement.  A former community banker, Reich was nominated in 2005 by former President George W. Bush to the agency whose future remains cloudy while lawmakers and the Obama administration mull realigning banking regulatory agencies.  Last year the Treasury Department under Bush proposed merging the OTS with its sister banking agency, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which regulates many large financial institutions such as JPMorgan and flagship national banks like Bank of America and Citigroup Inc.  The OTS and OCC are divisions of the Treasury Department.  Reich was also a member of the FDIC board since 2001, a panel that proposes and finalizes rules on depositary institutions.  Reich served as vice chairman of the FDIC board since late 2002, and was acting FDIC chairman from July 2001 to August 2001.  (Reporting by John Poirier; editing by Carol Bishopric and Tim Dobbyn)  
