DERIVATIVES Credit default swap prices on 14 largest dealers-including B of A and Citi-hit highest level in months  February 18, 2009 3:05 PM ET Financial counterparty risk is back up to where it was when Bear Stearns ran into trouble, according to an index that tracks prices of credit default swaps on the 14 dealers that account for the vast majority of derivatives trading. The Counterparty Risk Index shows that prices of five-year contracts that insure investors against bond defaults by Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley along with eight foreign firms reached 207 basis points today-slightly more than right before Bear was acquired by J.P. Morgan in March 2008. The index has been trading in a range between 150 and 190 basis points for most of the past several months. The index, which is maintained by Credit Derivatives Research of Walnut Creek, Calif., is still well below its historical peak of 283 bps on October 10, around the time that AIG and Lehman Brothers failed. But in a statement released today, Tim Backshall, CDR's chief strategist, said the recent climb back over 200 indicates that counterparty risk "has risen dramatically." He attributed that climb to investors' dismay over the Financial Stability Plan unveiled last week by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, or as Mr. Backshall put it, "the dysphoria surrounding Geithner's vagaries." Mr. Backshall said that counterparty risk was likely to remain high. He pointed out that the stress tests that the stability plan requires of large U.S. banks-along with the mortgage modifications included in the Obama administration's housing plan-have created further uncertainty over the value of mortgage-backed securities. The rise in the 14 dealers' CDS prices, he continued, coupled with the recent weakness in their equity prices reflect "the market's strong view that many of our major global financial institutions are technically insolvent no matter what government plans are put in place." Write to Ronald Fink at rfink@financialweek.com. Or write to the editors at fw_editor@financialweek.com.
