But the largest community bank in Massachusetts didnt get bigger in 2008.  It actually shrunk.  Even after completing the deal for MassBank and its $821 million in assets, Easterns year-end assets were $6.55 billion, compared with $6.8 billion in 2007. Thats far short of the $7.6 billion Holbrook expected in March when the MassBank deal was announced.  Meanwhile, full-year net income fell 91 percent to $5.8 million. The banks balance of net loans was $3.87 billion at the end of December, down from $3.98 billion a year earlier. And losses on investments totaled $50.4 million as Easterns bets on the stock market took a beating like everyone elses. To be sure, Eastern Bank has been a prudent lender. It has plenty of capital ($654.4 million) and its pool of problem loans is small. The bank also pared back some lending in riskier segments and didnt chase after expensive deposits with full-page newspaper ads touting sky-high CD rates. Were not going to match every other competitors offer to hold onto deposits, Eastern Bank spokesman Joe Bartolotta said. We have an obligation to run a profitable operation. Holbrooks strategy is not to chase one-off transactions, but to build relationships around its deposit-gathering and lending activities. For example, the banks balance of commercial and industrial loans a key source of working capital for businesses increased 14 percent to $666.4 million in 2008. The bank works to build a web of activity around those loans, getting businesses to sign up for deposit services, cash management and insurance, Bartolotta explained. The banks Natick-based insurance subsidiary, Eastern Insurance, continues to make a number of small acquisitions and the company says it is the largest independent insurance agency in New England.  Another point in Eastern Banks favor came from its big commercial bank rivals. Sovereign Bank nearly imploded before its announced takeover by Spains Banco Santander. Bank of America watched problem loans skyrocket while its acquisition of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Inc. turned into a soap opera.  But Eastern Bank largely has played a conservative hand. Bartolotta said loan demand among customers is down, even as troubled big banks cut lending and turned away customers.  Other large community banks in the state, such as Rockland Trust and Salem Five Cents Savings Bank, saw a big opportunity in the fourth quarter and moved to seize it. Rockland Trusts deposits and loans surged in the fourth quarter, for example, increasing at annualized rates of 7 percent and 12 percent, respectively. Were growing because some of the big banks are giving us opportunities to talk to their prior customers, said Chris Oddleifson, CEO of Rockland Trust. We wouldnt have that opportunity otherwise. Rocklands total assets increased 31 percent to $3.6 billion in 2008. Salem Fives net loans and total deposits each rose about 9 percent last year. And assets increased 6 percent to $2.84 billion, according to  filings. In a management letter covering 2007, Eastern Bank outlined issues that continue to hinder loan and deposit generation. The bank also has stressed profitability, rather than just growing assets. On the deposit front, customers continue to shift their balances from low-rate products such as savings accounts to better-paying certificates of deposit. As bank management wrote, the trend is not new or unique to Eastern, but one that weighs on profitability, nonetheless.  Without the MassBank deal, Easterns deposit totals would have declined in 2008, according to FDIC filings. The bank ended the year with $5.11 billion in deposits (including about $640 million from MassBank), compared with $4.7 billion at the end of 2007.  For Holbrook, one of the toughest places to manage risk has been in Easterns nearly $2 billion securities portfolio. In the third quarter, the bank posted a $34.08 million loss, its first quarterly loss in more than a decade as the U.S. stock market plunged and buckled banks around the globe. Easterns holdings have included a number of U.S. bank stocks, including that of failed savings and loan  The bank also lost about $7 million on an investment in preferred stock issue by Freddie Mac.  The risk in that portfolio remains. Eastern entered 2009 with exposure to stock and mutual fund shares valued at about $520 million, according to a January  disclosure. You could not have predicted the year we had (in 2008), said Bartolotta, referring to the turmoil in stock and credit markets worldwide. There were a ton of surprises.
