NEW YORK - Financial services stocks took a dive again Thursday, extending a period of intense volatility as uncertainty mounted over how the slumping economy would affect the companies.  After a period of optimism about the government's economic stimulus plans and actions for fortifying banks, investors are back to focusing on the economy  and they believe any recovery will be a slow, drawn-out process, said Fred Cannon, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.Despite a few hopeful signs, recent figures point to a very weak economy. New data from the Labor Department showed first-time claims for unemployment benefits totaled 623,000 last week, above analysts expectations. Those continuing to seek unemployment benefits rose to 4.81 million, the most since records began in 1967.  A research note released by Goldman Sachs analysts late Wednesday said it takes bank stocks about five years to bottom during a downturn, based on prior cycles. Goldman Sachs noted the sector has recognized only slightly more than half the $2.1 trillion losses it will likely incur during the current cycle.  The KBW Bank Index, which tracks 24 of the nation's largest banks, fell nearly 6 percent in early afternoon trading Thursday. The index gained nearly 12 percent Friday, rose slightly again Monday before tumbling nearly 14 percent Tuesday.  Investors sent shares of financial stocks higher ahead of Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner unveiling updated bank rescue plans earlier this week. With few details provided, investors began selling off shares in the industry and those problems continued into Thursday, having been compounded by further weak economic data.  KBW's Cannon said that regional banks are facing even further problems due to mounting deterioration in commercial real estate credit quality. Cannon said regional banks have higher concentrations of commercial real estate loans and further weakness in those portfolios will dent already weak earnings.  One such regional bank that has been hit particularly hard Thursday is BB&amp;T Corp. Friedman, Billings, Ramsey &amp; Co. analyst Paul Miller reiterated an 'Underperform' rating on the southeast regional bank Thursday as he expects 'the malaise from a consumer-led recession migrates into commercial categories.'In a research note, Miller said, 'We are concerned about increased commercial and industrial lending as worsening economic conditions will impact the credit performance of these loans as well.'Shares of BB&amp;T fell 10 percent to $15.90. Among other regional banks, shares of Fifth Third Bancorp declined 8.4 percent to $2.06. US Bancorp shares 9.8 percent to $13.62.  Within other financial services sectors, Fox-Pitt Kelton analyst Bill Carcache said he expects credit card trust data for January to show further deterioration when it is released next week. Carcache cut his estimates on major credit lenders American Express Co., Capital One Financial Corp. and Discover Financial Services based on expected deterioration in credit quality and a worsening view on the overall economy.  The trust data provides delinquency and default data for pools of credit cards packaged and sold as securities.  American Express shares sunk 5.4 percent to $15.48. Capital One shares declined 6 percent to $12.70, while Discover shares fell 3.1 percent to $6.99.  One longer-term bright spot coming out of the week might be for large-cap banks, Cannon said. Among the government programs, Cannon noted that the government's bank recovery plan includes capital investments in large banks in the form of convertible preferred stock at a conversion price with a small discount to Monday's closing prices.  Once the government determines that discount, that price could set a floor for large-cap bank stock prices because investors would be less likely to trade shares below a guaranteed price from the government, Cannon said. The government investment would come with certain restrictions on dividends and executive compensation, though.  Even that potential bright spot could not keep national banks from sinking Thursday.  Among national banks, shares of Wells Fargo &amp; Co. were hit the hardest, falling 10.2 percent to $15.72. Citigroup Inc. shares fell 4.3 percent to $3.53. Shares of Bank of America Corp. declined 6.8 percent to $5.66.
