NEW YORK (Reuters) - For shellshocked brokers at firms like Merrill Lynch &amp; Co, UBS (UBSN.VX Merrill's thundering herd of roughly 15,500 brokers is suffering the indignity of working alongside traditionally less prestigious counterparts at new parent Bank of America Corp (BAC.N  Wachovia Corp bought AG Edwards before the bank fell on hard times and succumbed to a fire sale to Wells Fargo &amp; Co(WFC.N Yet these firms, along with a broad swathe of smaller wealth managers, may face more upheaval, likely in the form of mergers, joint ventures or unit sales, experts said. 'It's possible that some of the units that were picked up through the major acquisitions will not ultimately fit,' said Elizabeth Nesvold, managing partner of investment bank Silver Lane Advisors. 'Invariably we will see dispositions.' For potential acquirers, wealth management businesses -- basically handling investments for individual investors -- are especially attractive as a steady source of revenue at a time when initial public offerings are rare, mergers are scarce and trading risk must be toned down.  But as the financial crisis persists, banks face the challenge of cutting costs, shielding their brokerage operations from the rest of their troubles and fighting the flight of financial advisers to rivals and networks of independent brokers. Last month, Morgan Stanley agreed to pay Citi $2.7 billion to take a 51 percent stake in the joint venture, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. Aside from boosting Citi's capital and diversifying Morgan Stanley's income, the venture is expected to generate $1.1 billion in savings. 'Most firms have reduced whatever costs they can without starting to cut into muscle, which means shrinking client services or business lines,' said Eric Weber, chief operating officer of Freeman &amp; Co, an advisory firm focused on financial services. 'Merging businesses means you don't need two general counsels, or two heads of IT (information technology), or two heads of HR (human resources).' Mergers or joint ventures could also help shield the advisory business from the rest of the issues at a firm. 'There is probably something to be said for the ability to separate advisory and retail businesses from more institutional businesses and sell-side activities,' said Mark Halverson, global head of Accenture's asset management services practice. 'It's something that I know a lot of firms are at least considering.' Recent deals have also broadened the gap between the industry's giants. Merrill-BofA, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Wachovia each handle between $1 trillion and $2 trillion in client assets, compared with $518 billion at UBS.  UBS, the fourth-largest brokerage, had discussions late last year with Morgan Stanley and with Wachovia about deals involving its U.S. business. But no deal emerged and the Swiss bank intends to stick with its U.S. brokerage.  UBS Wealth Management Americas Chief Executive Officer Marten Hoekstra told Reuters last week that the bank was looking to recruit advisers to take advantage of the turmoil. Although he would not rule out small acquisitions, he said expansion through hiring looks more attractive right now. 'Organic growth will have higher payoff over five years than acquisition opportunities,' Hoekstra said. Brokerage combinations come with their share of risks. Deals tend to trigger an exodus of advisers, which forces companies to provide generous retention payments. And businesses don't always fit together smoothly. 'Every time you see another merger, we get a flood of phone calls,' Barnaby Grist, a managing director at Schwab Advisor Services, which provides custodian and operational services to independent advisers. 'The retention rates go down in these very large firms because they are so inflexible.' Firms also face many challenges in the current environment, which could make it tougher for merged brokers to work. Analysts warn the financial crisis and recession could keep many investors on the sidelines. Commissions and brokerage fees would likely decline. 'It all comes down to issues of size, scale and operating leverage,' Freeman's Weber said. 'If 20 to 50 percent of your revenue just vaporized because of the market downturn, you need to get costs in line.'
