THE global financial earthquake spread overnight to Britain where a stricken HBOS was rumoured to be about to receive a pound stg. 15.8 billion ($35.6 billion) takeover bid from Lloyds TSB amid wild gyrations in the share price of Britain's largest mortgage lender.Continuing pressure on HBOS, or any deal with Lloyds, would have implications for the ownership of local HBOS subsidiary BankWest. Both the Commonwealth Bank and National Australia Bank have expressed interest in BankWest, but that was before the latest seizure in global financial markets in the wake of the Lehman Brothers failure and the $US85 billion ($107 billion) bailout of insurer AIG. In early London trade, HBOS stock crashed as much as 52 per cent to 88p, as investors fled amid renewed concerns about the bank's heavy reliance on wholesale funding. However, by mid-morning, the shares had not only recouped their losses but vaulted ahead 5.3 per cent to 180p, on the back of reports suggesting there were 'advanced' merger talks with Lloyds. The suitor, which has escaped the worst of the unfolding credit crunch, was reported to be offering about 300p a share, capitalising HBOS at pound stg. 15.8 billion. The news came less than 24 hours after Barclays Bank moved to acquire the North American business of the stricken Lehman Brothers for $US1.75 billion. HBOS has been under severe pressure this year after it was targeted by hedge funds and was forced to raise pound stg. 4 billion in capital last July from a heavily undersubscribed rights issue. On Monday, the stock sagged 18 per cent, and then shed a further 22 per cent the following day, as debt markets again seized up after Lehman's collapse and AIG emerged as the next systemic test for financial markets. The US government bailout of AIG with a $US85 billion loan from the US Federal Reserve, in return for majority control, failed to ease the panic surrounding HBOS, despite reassurance from the British regulator, the Financial Services Authority. In a highly unusual move, the FSA said in a statement that HBOS 'continues to fund its business in a satisfactory way'. One banker described the HBOS situation last night as 'extraordinary, just amazing'. 'The issue with bank mergers is that no one knows what's in the basement with counter-party liabilities that can put you at risk,' he said. 'There will be regulator-promoted mergers like Bank of America and Merrill, but BoA is now getting belted because of Merrill's potential liabilities. 'Sure, you can do rushed due diligence, but is it enough?' HBOS's reported embrace of Lloyds followed a downgrade from credit rating agency Fitch to AA with a negative outlook. The agency cited concerns over the outlook for core parts of the bank's retail and corporate banking divisions, as the British economy and property markets weakened. HBOS also had reduced flexibility because of the continuing disruption in wholesale funding markets, on which the bank relied heavily to fund its lending activities. Standard &amp;amp; Poor's added to the bank's woes with a one-notch downgrade to A-plus, having assessed HBOS as 'less well positioned to manage the deteriorating operating environment' than its peers. HBOS is the biggest private savings institution in Britain with pound stg. 258 billion in ordinary deposits and 15 million savers. The bank sources about 52 per cent of its funding from deposits compared to 61 per cent for Lloyds. Reports last night said HBOS had to refinance a net pound stg. 40 billion of debt in the next quarter. 'HBOS has wholesale funding that it has to roll over at what are likely to be much higher prices, and it needs that funding just to stand still,' a London trader told The Times newspaper. 'So it's either got to shrink rapidly or its margins are going to be hit.' Investor sentiment in HBOS has been soured by a hard-hitting report from Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, the agency responsible for assessing balance-sheet strength, which said that HBOS was 'less well positioned to manage the deteriorating operating environment', than its peers. Some analysts are worried about toxic investments on HBOS's balance sheet, including pound stg. 6.6 billion of securities whose value depends on poor borrowers in the US.
