LOOK hard enough at 's logo of an emerging sun, and its ''Queenslandness' becomes apparent.The green represents rainforests, red the earth and yellow the sun. They also represent the colours of the institutions amalgamated to create the Brisbane-based insurance-banking giant in the late 1990s.And now, with long-running takeover talk re-emerging, market watchers are considering the unique 'banana-bender' hurdles for any acquisition of .The first thing to remember is takeover talk has bubbled for years and some think a bid during the current credit crisis highly unlikely.Yet the chatter loudened this month, especially after  hit $7.15 compared with a 2006 high of $22.17.'The current share price now implies a very low price-earnings ratio (a market gauge of value) for the problematic banking assets in our overall valuation. This could well raise the spectre of merger and acquisition (activity),' ABN Amro told clients in a note when  shares rebounded to $9.10. shares have fallen along with other financial stocks. But specific concerns about  include weakening profit (down 48per cent to $556million), use of insurance reserves, the funding pipeline and the potential for a bad debt blowout. argues funding is on track and lending has been conservative. It has forecast high single-digit growth in the banking arm, flatness in wealth management and an insurance trading ratio of 10-12per cent for the insurance arm.Yet analysts are pondering different takeover scenarios for a Queensland-based business so iconistic here it has sponsored everything from the flagship rugby stadium to skin cancer research.Among the scenarios: Commonwealth Bank swallowing the whole entity or just the banking arm, or QBE taking the insurance business. (CBA and QBE declined to comment).But any takeover faces hurdles. Some are general, like the fact that any predator would be absorbing a business itself still digesting a $7.9billion acquisition of insurer Promina last year.Queensland-specific hurdles also lurk. Some stretch back to 's tortured birth in the 1990s when the state government trumped St George's takeover for the Metway Bank. The government also bound in law an alliance between Metway,  and QIDC.The law means main offices, ranging from headquarters to the purchasing department, must be located in Queensland. Forty per cent of directors also have to live in the Sunshine State.Yet the laws have wilted in the face of takeovers.Consider the 2006 tussle for Queensland gaming group UNiTAB, which also had a legal clause about its HQ.Within four weeks of an offer from Victorian rival Tabcorp in 2006, the state government presented six 'firm' conditions - like no net job losses here - under which laws could be amended to allow the bid.So would a bid for  see laws changed?Charlie Green of Hunter Green Institutional Broking, who considers a bid now as highly unlikely, says getting a change of government legislation would not be much of an issue.He cites the takeovers of UNiTAB and MIM as examples of state governments no longer having a xenophobic attitude to outside bids.It could also be costly. Deutsche Bank analysts flagged the cost for any acquiring bank would be to make 'job concessions to appease Queensland's government on the head office issue'. 'The acquiring bank would need to ensure Queensland job losses are minimised, which would necessitate setting up new call centres, branches, etc in Queensland to offset lower head office headcount.' Treasurer Andrew Fraser's office, asked if the Act would be amended, said: 'There are no provisions in the Act that would prevent  Metway being taken over.' Assuming a legal change, any predator might face costs due to branding issues. First is consumer loyalty. 'Any splitting of the bank and insurer would face dissynergies because in Queensland the general insurance and the bank use the  brand which is particularly strong and not easy to replace,' JPMorgan analysts wrote.That could potentially be solved if the purchaser kept the whole business and then the brand.Mr Green thinks branding would be a secondary issue if the operations were split.He says any predator would have to deal with George Street and then wait six to eight months for a deal to progress during the credit crunch, making an approach unlikely.Queensland's flagship enterprise could retain a distinctive state flavour for some time.     .The first thing to remember is takeover talk has bub... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/couriermail/story/0,23739,24414876-3122,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
