1:00PM New York, 6:00PM London  UK seizes the troubled mortgage lender Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and sell it to Abbey National controlled by Banco Santander of Spain.The stock market indexes fell sharply in today''s trading in London after Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley was nationalized in UK and Fortis was forced to seek rescue package from the governments of Benelux. Fearful investors worry that the U.S. credit market crisis may spread to Europe.Commodity stocks also plummeted as metal and oil prices declined on fears of a global economic slowdown.Market SentimentIn London trading FTSE 100 fell 5.3% or 269.7 to 4,818.77.Of the FTSE 100 index stocks, 1 rose, 100 declined, and 1 was unchanged. WM Morrison Supermarket was the only gainer in the index shares with a rise of 0.51%.U.K. Takes Over Bradford &amp;amp; BingleyU.K. Treasury reported that it has seized all the shares in Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley after it consulted with the Bank of England and Financial Services Authority. The decision from the Chancellor of Exchequer was swift after the bank failed to finish its rights offering and global markets have been jittery.The Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley was sold in a competitive bidding to Abbey National, part of Spanish financial group Banco Santander for 612 million that includes 20 billion of mortgages and personal loans and a network of 197 branches.The company shares were cancelled before trading began this morning in London. The fourth largest mortgage lender had relied for wholesale market to access capital for loans and fueled its growth party by lending to what is commonly known as buy-to-let borrowers. Many of them defaulted on loans after the housing market weakened in UK and land lords of second and third homes could find tenants and rents to cover the no money down mortgages.The remaining assets and liabilities of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley that includes mortgage book, personal loan book, headquarters and relevant staff, and treasury assets and its wholesale liabilities has been taken into public ownership through the transfer to the Treasury of the company''s shares. The UK Treasury will be responsible for assets of 41 billion will reap rewards or losses from the sale of it.The statement on the UK Treasury Web site noted, Under the Transfer Order, the FSCS (Financial Services Compensation Scheme) has paid out approximately 14bn to enable retail deposits held in Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley and covered by the FSCS to be transferred to Abbey.The Treasury has made a payment to Abbey for retail deposit amounts not covered by the FSCS, amounting to approximately 4bn. In return, the FSCS and the Treasury have acquired rights in respects of the proceeds of the wind-down and realization of the assets of the remaining business of Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley in public ownership.The depositor insurance of 14 billion will be paid by the UK government agency and which will be later collected from the other banks such as HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays. The UK depositor insurance plan know as compensation plan covers up to 35,000 and Santander will pay 4 billion to protect depositors larger than that limit.U.K. House Prices Falls 6.2% in SeptemberThe cost of a house in England and Wales dropped 6.2% to 165,300 pounds in September from the same period a year earlier as reported by Hometrack Limited. In particular, prices in London have slumped by 7.1% in the past year.Separately, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors reported that houses are selling at 9% below asking price, with sellers in some regions being asked to accept 12.5% off their advertised price.According to the report, the gap between selling and asking prices has also widened as in the North vendors are accepting offers averaging 12.5% below market price, while in the North West, East Midlands, West Midlands and Wales offers are averaging approximately 10% below. However, in London the offers are at 8.5%.Simon Rubinsohn, RICS chief economist said, ''''With housing transactions currently at a 30-year low, many vendors are being forced to lower their asking prices to achieve a sale in an ever-shrinking market or they are being forced to rent their property until the market picks up.''''Belgium, Luxembourg and Netherlands Invest 11.2 billion euros in Fortis
