(Updates with details throughout) By Anusha Shrivastava Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES NEW YORK 'The deal is a spectacular success,' said Rajiv Setia, an agency strategist at Barclays Capital in New YorkU.S. investors snatched 63% of the note, while Asian investors bought 12%, which though low in percentage terms, is about the same in dollar terms as their purchase of the previous two-year deal sold in July.David BensonCentral banks purchased 27% of Wednesday's deal versus 57% of the July note. In dollar terms, their participation remained about the same as the previous sale..The warm reception the new deal received encouraged FHLBank Systems, another government-sponsored enterprise, to offer a $3 billionFHLB officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment on its offering.Market participants expect the FHLB five-year global bond to sell with a yield in the area of 78 basis points over comparable Treasurys. This is the same range that the FHLB 4% note due 2013 was trading in the secondary market on Wednesday.Fannie decided to come with a record-sized offering to satisfy investor demand, Setia noted, adding that some investors bought billion-dollar chunks. Fund managers bought 54% of the notes and central banks bought another 27%.The debt was sold at 70 basis points over comparable Treasurys, to yield 2.896%. The buying continued in the secondary market when the issue was freed to trade, pushing the risk premium tighter to 66 basis points.Fannie had sold $6 billionIts short-term bill auction, also held Wednesday, did well, too, selling at a yield that was as much as 50 basis points tighter to Fannie's issue last week. The $1 billionIn the secondary market, risk premiums on agency debt were tighter across the board after Fannie's note sale.While investors have flocked to short-term debt from Fannie since the government's support became clearer, it remains to be seen if they will have the same level of confidence in buying debt that matures beyond two years.Given the uncertainty around the shape of Fannie and Freddie beyond the initial phase when the Treasury Department, investors may yet hold back. -By Anusha Shrivastava, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2371; anusha.shrivastava@dowjones.com(James R. HagertyClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=BmB6zJwi0pQvKogVShuQ5A%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
