First-time buyers are lowering their expectations of the property that they are looking at Photo: BLOOMBERG For anyone hoping that mortgage deals might become a bit cheaper, last week came as a rude awakening. The financial crisis - which saw the US investment bank Lehman Brothers go bust and HBOS, one of the UKs largest mortgage lenders, being rescued by rivals Lloyds TSB - has pushed up the cost of borrowing in the money markets, which dictate the future movement of mortgage rates. In other words, the shenanigans on Wall Street will mean pricier mortgage deals in the UK, even before you take into account the drop in competition caused by the HBOS merger. This is particularly disappointing given that before last week a number of lenders - including Halifax and Abbey - had been cutting rates on new deals. Rates have come down a little, but many homeowners were holding on, hoping for further cuts, says David Hollingworth of mortgage brokers London &amp;amp; Country. But it looks like this is as good as it is going to get, at least in the short term. Worst hit will be first-time buyers, who already need large deposits even to get on the property ladder. However, those coming to the end of low-cost deals will also be affected: that means an estimated 1.3 million homeowners this year, most of whom face much higher mortgage costs. They have only a small window of opportunity to bag a deal before rates start to climb again. We are expecting most mortgage lenders to reprice fixed and discounted deals, says Melanie Bien, a director of Savills. But this hasnt happened yet. So if you are coming up to remortgaging, or looking to buy, it is still possible to secure a competitive rate, especially since you can reserve a mortgage rate for up to six months before you need it, depending on the lender. This, of course, leaves you vulnerable if the deal falls through - the arrangement fees can be substantial, with most hovering at around 1,000, and you are unlikely to be able to get them refunded if the deal falls through. Fees on the keenest-priced deals can be even steeper, at between 1,500 and 2,000, and some lenders even use percentage fees, which depend on the size of the mortgage. On a 100,000 mortgage, a 2.5 per cent fee, which is common, would mean paying 2,500 just to get the deal in place. Then there is the vexed question of whether to go for a fixed-rate mortgage, which means taking a bet on future interest rates. If the Bank of England decides to cut them, you may be better off with a discounted mortgage (also often known as a tracker mortgage), as your monthly payment will be reduced. Many experts expect the Bank of England to cut interest rates over the next two years to boost the economy. But second-guessing can be risky, and experts are often wrong. If you cant take the risk and would struggle to pay your mortgage if rates increased, a fixed-rate deal is probably best, even if it means paying marginally more for peace of mind. A longer-term loan of five years or more could also help ease any uncertainty over the markets behaviour and protect you if house prices continue to fall - by the time your deal ends, the current difficulties in the housing market could well have eased. Bearing all of this in mind, weve picked some of the best deals for those in a variety of circumstances. Obviously each case will be different - but there are certain basic principles to bear in mind that will help you navigate the choppy economic waters. First-time buyers To get on the property ladder, first-time buyers now need a deposit of at least 10 per cent. With the average home costing about 175,000, this equates to a 17,500 lump sum. But even once youve handed it over, you still wont be offered the best rates on the market and will have a narrower range of lenders to choose from. So while you may feel that paying rent is throwing your money down the drain, you should seriously consider delaying your purchase while property prices continue to fall. Even with a 10 per cent deposit you are at risk of falling into negative equity if the slump continues, whereas by waiting a year you can build a bigger deposit, thereby getting access to more competitive rates, and hopefully buy into the market at a lower price. Best deals (assuming 10 per cent deposit) *Two-year fixed, Yorkshire Building Society; 6.59 per cent. No fee. *Two-year tracker, Nationwide Building Society; 6.13 per cent (rate is guaranteed to be 0.13 percentage points above the base rate). Fee: 1,999. Remortgaging Lenders have always offered cheaper rates to those with more equity in their homes. In the days before the credit crunch, the magic figure was 10 per cent - those that cleared this relatively low hurdle generally had the pick of the best rates. Now banks are adopting far more conservative strategies, reserving their best deals for those who have paid off much of their mortgage and are sitting on a comfortable slug of equity. If your mortgage is worth 60 per cent or less of your propertys current value, you not only have a cushion against negative equity, but will have the widest possible range of lenders to chose from when you need to remortgage. Even if youve only paid off a smaller amount - say, 30 per cent - you will still be offered better rates than those with just a 10 per cent deposit. According to Melanie Bien of Savills, lenders in this position should expect to pay about 5.55 per cent for a two-year fixed-rate deal, although the exact rate will again depend on the fee charged. Best deals (assuming 40 per cent deposit) *Two-year fixed, C&amp;amp;G; 5.48 per cent. Fee: 2,094. *Two-year tracker, Abbey; 5.54 per cent (0.54 percentage points above the base rate) Fee: 1,999 Buy-to-let Many lenders have become far more reluctant to lend money to amateur landlords, perceiving them to be higher risk. After all, paying the mortgage on a second home is likely to be a lower priority than keeping the roof over your own head, so you are more likely to default if you run into financial difficulties. Oversupply has also meant that some landlords are struggling to keep tenants, which again can lead to difficulties with monthly repayments. As a result, most lenders have restricted the sums they will advance. However, there are still opportunities to remortgage that could lower your monthly costs. Best deals *Two-year fixed, Chelsea Building Society; 6.69 per cent. Fee: 1,499 *Two-year tracker, The Mortgage Works; 5.44 per cent (0.44 percentage points above the base rate) Fee: 2.5 per cent of mortgage. 
