 Australians are tightening their financial belts, with annual credit growth in August at its slowest pace for six years, new figures show.As well, lending for the homes sector continues to lumber along and is now at its slowest pace of yearly growth in a quarter of a century.The credit figures released Tuesday by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) are a further sign that the economy is slowing and has reinforced the case of the central bank to cut official interest rates next Tuesday.Lending for housing, personal use and business rose 0.5 per cent in August, and was up 10.5 per cent in the year.Credit growth has slowed since May, with the annual pace in August hitting its slowest rate since June 2002.Demand for housing loans increased by 0.4 per cent in August and by 9.4 per cent.Bob Hawke was in his first year as prime minister when the pace of home lending was last this soft, when the annual rate hit 9.4 per cent in November 1983.CommSec chief economist Craig James said Australians were taking a more conservative approach with their spending and attitude to debt. 'Australian consumers are effectively on a borrowing strike, refusing to take on more debt in these unsettled times,' Mr James said. 'Housing lending is growing at the slowest pace in 25 years while other personal lending is growing at the slowest pace in 14 years.' Other personal credit growth - personal loans and credit cards - fell by 0.4 per cent in August and rose only 2.5 per cent over the 12 months - its lowest annual pace of growth since March 1994.For the third straight month growth in other personal credit shrank. 'The jitters around the world are making people more wary to take on substantial amounts of debt,' Mr James said. 'Whether it is for housing, for buying a car or major consumer durables,' he said. 'Twelve months ago things were looking pretty good, but the US banking crisis has caused the optimism to be wound back quite significantly.' Mr James said while businesses were a little wary in the current financial environment, their credit growth rose 0.6 per cent in August, and by 13.6 per cent over the year. 'Business are still focussed on buying more plant and equipment and on expanding their premises,' he said. 'They are making sure they have plenty of capacity on board.' With credit growth indicative of a slowing economy, Mr James said the RBA would cut the overnight cash rate, currently seven per cent, by 25 basis points in either October or November, to prod activity along. 'The size and timing of the move depends on how the US financial crisis pans out over coming days,' he said.
