01:30pm Reserve Bank of Australia governor Glenn Stevens yesterday told a parliamentary committee hearing he could not rule out a recession. 'Is there a zero risk of recession? No, it's not zero but the most likely one is the one in the published outlook,'' he said. Asked whether Australia was on the brink of a recession, Mr Rudd said: 'Australia is not immune to the global economic crisis.'' Mr Rudd said conditions across the world were tight, with five of seven industrial economies of the world recording zero or negative growth and another oil shock. He said the roll-on effect on business confidence had been huge. 'We have a clear-cut economic strategy to see Australia through these difficult economic times,'' Mr Rudd said. 'We intend to prosecute that. You look at the condition of other economies around the world - I believe that we are well-positioned in Australia to see this economy through.'' The Budget surplus would provide a buffer for future uncertain times, he said, and it was important for the Government's Budget Bills to be allowed to pass Parliament. \ 'Again I'd call upon the Liberals - get responsible, unblock the passage of these Bills in the Senate so that the Budget surplus can be maintained,'' he said.  at 02:24PMMore Marketsat 02:07PM  Drop us a line at business@news.com.au THE economy will continue to slide for at least six months as rates fall only gradually - painfully slow relief for struggling families. 29 comments  BUSINESS pessismists outnumbered optimists for the eighth consecutive month in August, a gloomy condidence survey shows. More Business More CommoditiesA WOMAN viciously bashed at a casino has set up a website to track down the 'bastard' who did it.  BUSINESS pessismists outnumbered optimists for the eighth consecutive month in August, a gloomy condidence survey shows. More business THE economy will continue to slide for at least six months as rates fall only gradually - painfully slow relief for struggling families. More money THERE may be a spike in neck brace sales this week after a Fathers' Day CD spree pushed six AC/DC albums into the top 50. More entertainment HISTORY, culture, cold beer and working airconditioning. Mary Bolling goes on a tour of Vietnam that stops at all stations. 
