04:40pm EL Consult's executive demand index fell 6 per cent in August to 861 points, down from 1105 in the same month last year. The shrinking number of executive jobs signals a fall in general employment in the near future, EL Consult said. There were falls in every sector, with financial the worst hit - falling 14 per cent as cutbacks related to the US sub-prime crisis continued. South Australia and the Northern Territory recorded the strongest employment results. 3EL Consult managing director Grant Montgomery said the recent interest rate cut was unlikely to have any effect on executive employment in the short term. 'Without some further stimulation, an employment downturn is inevitable,'' he said. 'This would spell the end of the much-touted skills shortage, which on a positive note (would) ease inflationary wage pressures.'' The non-resource sector of the economy continued to struggle and had been hit hard by rising interest rates over the past year, Mr Montgomery said. He called for a change in tactics from the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), saying interest rate rises have no effect on the booming resources sector. 'Interest rates do not hit that section of the economy that has been inflating most,'' he said. 'It highlights the non-discriminatory sledgehammer effect of monetary policy when what is required is a more discriminatory touch.'' The information technology sector experienced a 13 per cent fall in executive demand in August, while the marketing and engineering sectors fell by 2 per cent. Management was the strongest sector, falling by just 1 per cent.  at 05:04PMMore Marketsat 04:10PM  Drop us a line at business@news.com.au BUYING into Australia's $3.2 trillion housing market - without owning a single property - will soon be a mouse click away.  ANZ is dropping its fixed interest rate home loans for the third time since August 9, cutting up to 0.2 percentage points from Monday. More Business MARK Wilhelm will be charged with the manslaughter of Dianne Brimble, who died on the P&amp;amp;O cruise ship Pacific Sky in 2002.  ANZ is dropping its fixed interest rate home loans for the third time since August 9, cutting up to 0.2 percentage points from Monday. More business BUYING into Australia's $3.2 trillion housing market - without owning a single property - will soon be a mouse click away. More money HOLLYWOOD heavyweight Eric Bana is being courted for a key role in the second series of Underbelly, which begins filming next month. More entertainment NO matter whether your travel style is luxe or lax, Dr Deborah Mills shows how to stay happy and healthy on the road. 
