: Email: PrintSubmit comment: Submit commentTERRY McCRANNUNPRECEDENTED action by US authorities has led to sharp recoveries on world share markets after one of the most traumatic, and frightening, weeks in modern financial history.Award-winning financial journalist TERRY McCRANN assesses what it means for Australia's superannuation balances, investors and economy.' IS it all over? The spectacular two-day surge on Wall Street might suggest the answer is 'yes'. And it did follow real, concrete steps to fight the global financial tsunami surging out from the financial canyons of New York.But don't be deceived: it does not signal that 'happy days are here again'. The consequences of the extraordinary events in the US this month and the massive trauma that has hit markets around the world are going to play out all the way through 2009 and beyond.And play out directly in Australia as well  on your superannuation and your investments, your job, the business you own and even the value of the family home.This does not mean economic disaster. Our economy now depends directly more on what happens in China. And, of course, what the Reserve Bank does with interest rates.What happened and why? What might come next, how will it impact on you and what steps should you take?How did it happen?IT all started with 'Ninjas'. Not the Japanese warriors or the cartoon characters, but housing loans made in America to people with No Income No Job or Assets.Don't ask why. It seemed like a good idea at the time: greed facilitated  encouraged  by bad or no regulation. Lend the money, take the fees and bonuses and then 'cleverly' bundle the loans together as an 'investment security' to be sold to the US versions of our AMP. The infamous 'sub-prime' securities.When they started to go bad, they triggered a much wider unravelling of all the exotic, supposedly sophisticated, highly complex investment structures  broadly what are known as CDOs, collateralised debt obligations.The losses, the generalised fear and loathing, were seized on by the hedge funds to mount massive assaults on the share prices of financial institutions, using so-called short-selling. That's when you sell shares you don't own, intending  hoping  to buy them back cheaper.It was like shooting fish in a barrel, as the share price of formerly huge financial institutions were shredded. That fed into a general fall in share prices around the world. Global credit markets froze up. Banks were literally afraid to lend to other banks.In what ranks as the mother of all exercises in shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted, on Friday the authorities in the US, the UK and Australia moved to ban short-selling.What does it mean for Australia?THERE'S a two-pronged impact on Australia. The first and most immediate has been on our share market in general. It has dropped nearly a third from last November's peak.That feeds directly into your superannuation, while vulnerable 'entrepreneurial' companies or those with big debts have been virtually wiped out. For example, the share price of Babcock &amp;amp; Brown has dropped from $30 to less than $1.We are back to waking up each morning, wondering, fearing what's happened overnight on Wall Street. We've actually dropped further than the US. And it would have been worse, but for our big resource stocks such as BHP Billiton; our financial institutions having little direct investment in America's toxic securities; and our banks being among the strongest in the world.The biggest impact has been on superannuation. The average super fund has about two-thirds of its investments in shares, local and international. At the end of the financial year, June 30, the average fund had lost just over 6 per cent. And it's been worse since then.The second prong is what it does to our economy. The crisis is likely to send the US into recession. We can only hope that China can 'decouple' from the US. But some sort of global slowdown in 2009 seems likely.What's next? Will it get worse?THERE'S now a good prospect the extraordinary steps taken last week will stabilise markets. And our market will clearly have a strong day tomorrow (the Dow Jones industrial average rose 368 points overnight on Friday, following a 410-point rise the day before).Apart from anything else, the hedge funds had all but run out of targets before Friday's moves to ban short-selling. There were five big investment banks on Wall Street, now there are just two. Mortgage giants Fannie May and Freddie Mac have been taken over by the US Government, as has AIG, the biggest US insurance group.But 'stabilising' the situation is a long way short of 'solving' it. And the 'cure' is likely to cause new problems. Prepare for more volatility. The focus now turns to what will happen to the US and global economies.What should I do?THAT'S precisely why it's more what you should NOT do. Obviously, do not panic  that would be shutting your personal stable door after the horse has bolted by chasing greater safety for your super. Or the opposite  don't move to super-charged investments that are risky at the best of times, but potentially explosive now. And don't even simply switch to another fund which lost less last year.In simple terms, whether or not you knew it, you've ridden the market down, now you have to keep riding it, hopefully, up.If you were smart and moved into cash early enough, now is the time for selective bargain-hunting. Good shares and bad have been dumped. That said it is still going to be very volatile.The same broad comments also apply to property, with the added factor of location  some areas are going to do better, or worse, than others. Interest rates are headed down in 2009, but if the economy turns sour, there'll be fewer people able to borrow. Overall, be prudent. But don't retire into your shell. These are precisely the times when fortunes are made and great long-term investments acquired.Are my super and investments safe?SUPER yes, but it's impossible to give a blanket answer for other investmentsSuper is 'safe' in the core sense that the money won't disappear  ending up in, say, the Bahamas. But that doesn't guarantee performance. Unless the share market recovers spectacularly from here, you either won't make much of a return this year or you could actually have a second negative year. But over time it will recoup this lost ground.Other investments are more complicated. We are likely to see more Centros, where share prices are shredded and exotic property developers go broke. Property, generally, probably is going to be soft, especially if the economy slows.What happens to China, to commodity prices and to our dollar, will all feed into the flux.Our two greatest advantages are our Budget surplus and our relatively high interest rates. Consider them weapons available to be thrown into battle if needed. Especially interest rates.$500 BILLION KISS OF LIFEStruggling to stave off financial catastrophe, the Bush administration laid out a radical bailout plan with a jawdropping price tag  a takeover of a half-trillion dollars or more in worthless mortgages and other bad debt held by tottering institutions.A grim-faced President George W. Bush acknowledged risks to taxpayers in what would be the most sweeping government intervention to rescue failing financial institutions since the Great Depression in the 1930s.The administration is asking Congress for far-reaching new powers to take over troubled mortgages from banks and other companies, including purchasing sour mortgage-backed securities.In other major steps, the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve moved to give money-market mutual funds the same kind of federal protection, at least temporarily, that now applies to savings and cheque accounts and certificates of deposit at banks.'This is a pivotal moment for America's economy,' Mr Bush said. 'In our nation's history, there have been moments that require us to come together across party lines to address major challenges. This is such a moment.'
