By Ross Marowits, The Canadian Press MONTREAL - Nervous investors who can't stand watching their investments devoured by a declining market should take advantage of the 'dead cat bounce' when stocks rise briefly after a long fall, say analysts. 'If you really feel you need to move some stuff out that you're uncomfortable with then a situation like this is the time to do it,' investment author Gordon Pape said Thursday as markets rallied. The Toronto Stock Exchange reversed three days of declines Thursday and was up 2.3 per cent in early afternoon trading. Pape said precipitous stock market declines are historically followed by temporary recoveries when bargain hunters prowl for cheap buys. The upticks usually doesn't last long but provide opportunities to minimize losses, he said. It happened at the turn of the century when a couple of rallies suggested that the worst was over. But the situation only got worse before the market went on a tear in 2003. Pape predicted Wednesday that it would occur again as the bear market continues to search for a bottom. But he expects it will only be temporary. 'I don't think we'll suddenly see the market turn around and go from a bear to a bull.' Since capital preservation is the primary objective for most investors these days, it's important to control what you can, added Adrian Mastracci, portfolio manager of KCM Wealth Management Inc. He suggests reducing investment costs and following a risk tolerance plan that will guide when to sell underperforming assets. Most investors can withstand reductions of 15 to 25 per cent, he said. 'Sell half if it gets to your threshold, sell the rest if it drops another 10 per cent,' Mastracci said in an interview from Toronto. Mastracci said investors who can't stand the heat of market declines should sit on the sidelines for a while and seek refuge in treasury bills, GICs, bankers' acceptances and the like. They can re-enter in six to 12 months by spreading their investments over several instalments. Learn some lessons from large investors, who are patiently waiting until they can pounce on a good deal, he said. Diversification is key. 'These are very unusual times, make diversification your biggest friend.' Investors who have reduced their equity holdings or are comfortable with volatility should ride out the storm, said Pape. 'If you've got good quality stock and good quality mutual funds, I wouldn't sell them,' he said, adding it makes little sense to sell blue-ribbon companies like Rogers Communications (TSX: RCI-B.TO) in a falling market. The head of Quebec's Desjardins credit union urged investors not to panic by making sudden decisions about their portfolios. 'Some talk about a financial crisis but we are not in an economic crisis and the situation in the United States is different than in Canada,' Monique Leroux said in interview Thursday. Pape said he also looks positively at solid Canadian companies like Enbridge (TSX: ENB.TO), Trans-Canada Pipeline (TSX: TRP.TO), Fortis Inc. (TSX: FTS.TO), Canadian Utilities Ltd. (TSX: CU.TO), CN Rail (TSX: CNR.TO), Viterra (TSX: VT.TO) and Shaw Communications (TSX: SJR-B.TO). Brookfield Asset Management (TSX: BAM-A.TO) shares may be down, but the real estate giant has $20 billion ready to spend on cheap assets. The author of Sleep Easy Investing says investors should avoid speculative stocks, commodities which face volatility if there's a global recessions, and U.S. financial and insurance stocks in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the sale of Merrill Lynch and the bailout of AIG. Although Canadian banks have been relatively unscathed by what's going on south of the border, the entire financial services sector should be avoided for a year, wrote Tom Slee, contributing editor of Pape's Internet Wealth Builder newsletter. But that's difficult with financial companies and banks accounting for 23.5 per cent of the S&amp;amp;P/TSX Composite Index. One answer may be to beef up in Canadian life insurance holdings, which have weathered the storm mainly through tight investment controls. Most have excellent balance sheets and excess capital, which combined with the strong loonie, puts them in a strong shape to pounce on weaknesses in the U.S. 'We could see the major Canadian players buying blocks of in-force business or even making major corporate acquisitions,' he wrote. Manulife Financial Corp. (TSX: MFC.TO), Canada's largest life insurance company is viewed most favourably, despite disclosing a US$800 million exposure to battered U.S. financial companies Lehman Brothers, American International Group and Washington Mutual. Canada's three big insurance companies claim to have a US$1.2 billion exposure to the Wall Street companies. Sun Life Financial Inc. (TSX: SLF.TO), Canada's third-largest insurance company by revenue, said its exposure to AIG is about US$315 million of bonds and $349 million worth of investments with Lehman Brothers. Meanwhile, 75 per cent of North American senior pension finance executives say they will focus on reducing risk in their defined benefit pension portfolios rather than seek greater return on assets. 'After the highs and lows of the past several years, we're in an economic environment where being ready for storm conditions is the new normal,' stated Monica McIntosh of Tower Perrin, which conducted the survey of 214 executives. 
