There's a new Investor Edition of CMC Markets' spread betting platform... and it's exclusive to DigitalLook.com users...There's a new Investor Edition of CMC Markets' spread betting platform... and it's exclusive to DigitalLook.com users...Lighten the load of all those repayments with a low rate unsecured loan. This month's selected offers:1.  Barclays Loans2.  Halifax LoansMoney back on your spendings? With American Express Platinum MoneyBack card, you can get5% Money Back* during your first 3 months, thenstandard Money Back rate up to 1.5% withtypical APR 18.9% variableWhy look further? Apply now!Date: Friday 19 Sep 2008Market MoversFTSE 100 5,164.30 +5.83%techMARK 1,349.68 +3.17%FTSE 250 8,722.90 +4.63%LONDON (ShareCast) - Concerted action on both sides of the Atlantic to tackle short-selling has sent financial shares soaring and put a rocket under Footsie.Shares in  Bradford &amp;amp; Bingley, Lloyds, HBOS, Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, Cattles and St James Place are all up over 20%.From midnight last night, the UK financial regulator introduced new provisions to the Code of Market Conduct 'to prohibit the active creation or increase of net short positions in publicly quoted financial companies'. On the downside, spread bet firm IG tumbled on the news.US markets also picked up last night on talk that Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson is set to unveil a new rescue plan would create a vehicle to take on the US banks worst bad debts and get them lending again. Something similar was set up when the saving and loans banks industry collapsed in 1989.Elsewhere, HSBC has walked away from its offer to buy a 51% stake in Korea Exchange Bank, citing the current turmoil in the financial markets. 'Discussions with Lone Star have not led to agreement on how the transaction might proceed on a basis acceptable to HSBC,' the group said.A private equity consortium led by Providence Equity Partners has scrapped its offer to buy conferences and publishing group Informa,reportedly due to probelms raising the finance for the deal. The consortium's decision marks one of the first large deals to collapse since the onset of the credit crunch.Pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmithKline has confirmed that Variable Sales Forward (VSF) agreements with Lehman Brothers Finance SA have been terminated. The VSF agreements relate to 20m common shares of Quest Diagnostics.The Western Health and Social Care Trust has named an Interserve consortium preferred bidder for the PFI contract to create and maintain a new acute hospital at Enniskillen.Online gaming group PartyGaming has appointed Jon Salmon as its new chief marketing officer. Salmon will join PartyGaming from Ads Dot Com next month and will report directly to chief executive Jim Ryan.Environmental consultant RPS is on the acquisition trail again, snapping up MSL, a European provider of specialist laboratory services. RPS is acquiring MSL from its management for a maximum cash consideration of 1.9m.Aggregates group Ennstone has received a preliminary approach which may or may not lead to an offer being made for the company.
