NEW YORK 'The deal is a spectacular success,' said Rajiv Setia, an agency strategist at Barclays Capital in New YorkU.S. investors snatched 63% of the note, while Asian investors bought 12%, which though low in percentage terms, is about the same in dollar terms as their purchases of previous deals.The warm reception the deal received has encouraged FHLBank Systems, another government-sponsored enterprise, to offer a $3 billionFHLB officials didn't return phone calls seeking comment on on its offering.Fannie decided to come with a record-sized offering to satisfy investor demand, Setia noted, adding that some investors bought billion-dollar chunks. Fund managers bought 54% of the notes and central banks bought another 27%. 'Without a doubt, it's a vote of confidence,' said William O'DonnellThe debt was sold at 70 basis points over comparable Treasurys, to yield 2.896%. 'Spreads were very attractive for investors,' said Jim VogelFannie had sold $6 billionIts short-term bill auction, also held Wednesday, did well, too, selling at a yield that was as much as 50 basis points tighter to Fannie's issue last week. The $1 billionQuestions Remain About Longer-TermWhile investors are flocking to buy short-term debt from Fannie since the government's support became clearer, it remains to be seen if they will have the same level of confidence in buying debt that matures beyond two years.Given the uncertainty around the shape of Fannie and Freddie beyond the initial phase when the Treasury Department is backing it, investors may yet hold back. 'Asia will take a wait-and-see approach but they will come back,' Setia said, adding that this time round, the overwhelming response the deal got from domestic investors seems to have crowded out overseas buyers. 'The dollar volume of their purchase is in line with the past,' he added. -By Anusha Shrivastava, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2371; anusha.shrivastava@dowjones.comClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=BmB6zJwi0pQvKogVShuQ5A%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
