Japanese companies are on an acquisition streak aimed at expanding their global reach, with banks - unburdened by losses from subprime loans and faced with stagnating growth at home - among the most aggressive buyers.Last week, Mitsubishi UFJ said it would take a stake in Morgan Stanley of 10 percent to 20 percent, paying as much as $8.5 billion.The details of the deal are still being hammered out, meaning it may take some time before investors see evidence of how far the cooperation will go. 'I think it will more likely be an investment,' said Kristine Li, a banking analyst at KBC Securities in Tokyo. 'Putting in the capital, Mitsubishi can get higher ROE to compensate for the low growth of their domestic business,' she said, referring to a return on equity.On paper, their deal could lead to the creation of a true global franchise, with the companies sharing people and products from Tokyo to Times Square. When the forerunner of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group made a $500 million investment in Goldman Sachs in 1986, the idea was to form a global alliance.That never really happened. The Japanese bank benefited financially from its Goldman deal, but 'not necessarily in terms of strategic initiative,' John Ehara, a partner at Unison Capital in Tokyo, said at a recent conference in Hong Kong.Although the two banks worked together on various loans, they were never able to link their operations broadly.Likewise, it remains to be seen if Mizuho Financial Group's investment in Merrill Lynch will increase the Japanese bank's activities beyond its home base.Since their deal was announced in January, Merrill shares fell continuously until Bank of America agreed to buy it. Japanese media reports last week indicated that Mizuho planned to increase its business ties with Bank of America and Merrill.Morgan Stanley says its deal with Mitsubishi UFJ is every bit a partnership. 'This alliance also would build on Morgan Stanley's deep ties and market leadership in Japan and throughout Asia,' said John Mack, the Morgan Stanley chief executive, when the companies announced the deal.The resurgence of activity by Japanese banks recalls their aggressive push into the United States in the 1980s, which was eventually halted by the collapse of asset bubbles in Japan. While Japanese banks have long sought to bolster revenues from abroad, so far they have not been very successful in establishing a sustained presence overseas. 'It gives MUFG a footprint in the U.S.,' Jason Rogers, a credit analyst at Barclays Capital, said of the deal with Morgan Stanley. 'How effectively they can leverage that, and various other synergies, remains to be seen.' Rob Morrison, chairman of the brokerage firm CLSA in Hong Kong, said that he thought Mitsubishi would take a wait-and-see approach. 'They'll say, 'we'll invest this money and see how the relationship pans out.' It's not every day you get to invest in a franchise like Morgan at that sort of entry level,' he said. A spokesman for Morgan Stanley said, 'this deal is a strategic alliance with numerous opportunities for global collaboration and both sides are moving ahead quickly to close the transaction.' His comment was echoed by a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ, which will receive a board seat at Morgan Stanley.
