The Charlotte Observer  Ken Thompson CHARLOTTE, N.C.-- In front of a ballroom full of N.C. bankers in January 2006, Wachovia chief executive Ken Thompson warned of the dangers of toxic home loans. A problem with so-called option adjustable-rate mortgages, he told the group, was that homeowners can end up owing more at the end of the month than the beginning, which can be a tough situation for customers and lenders. I have literally been amazed at the terms offered by some mortgage lenders, thankfully not at Wachovia and thankfully not so much in North Carolina, he said. Four months later in May 2006, Thompson took a $24 billion plunge into the mortgage business by buying Oakland, Calif.-based Golden West Financial. Its specialty? The same loans he had cautioned against: option ARMs.   Wachovia, a brand known for conservative lending, had changed course and forged its biggest deal ever. Two and a half years later, the purchase has played a central role in the Charlotte bank's near collapse and its planned sale to San Francisco-based Wells Fargo. Shareholders vote Tuesday on the takeover.   In buying Golden West, Thompson and his board exposed the bank to a nontraditional lender with 60 percent of its mortgages in California even as experts warned of a housing bubble and the perils of option ARMs. The purchase left the bank especially vulnerable in the global financial crisis that ensued. Now the acquisition is a key chapter in a tragic tale that has cost investors billions and threatened thousands of jobs.   So why did Thompson do it? The purchase fit his goals of establishing a major presence in California and building his mortgage business. His competitors were reaping profits from the housing frenzy. And he became comfortable with Golden West's lending tactics and sterling track record.   But the deal seemed out of character. It came together in a matter of days. Some key executives weren't consulted. The two cultures collided at a bank known for smooth mergers. And perhaps most remarkably, Wachovia kept pushing Golden West's option ARMs, even as other lenders backed away.   Had Wachovia executives passed on the deal, the company might still have a future on its own. But once they placed the bet on Golden West, it's debatable whether they could have escaped the financial meltdown that would follow. If you look back on it, who could have predicted that? asks former Wachovia director Robert Brown, who voted to approve the deal.   In the aftermath, federal officials are investigating the sale, and shareholders have filed lawsuits against Wachovia and company officials.   Thompson, 58, declined to comment for this story. He was dismissed in June. In a statement, Wachovia said the deal was an attractive fit when it was announced and can only be evaluated fairly based on circumstances existing at that time. Thompson a selective dealmaker   Thompson took over then-First Union in 2000 with the bank suffering from fast-paced deals and plunging profits.   Well-liked throughout the ranks, the company veteran from Rocky Mount launched a massive restructuring, presided over a smooth merger with Winston-Salem's Wachovia in 2001 and preached a devotion to customer service.   He also became known as a selective dealmaker. In 2003, he passed on FleetBoston Financial. Two years later, he turned down credit card giant MBNA. In both cases, he didn't budge on price and resisted taking on too much risk for a bank of Wachovia's size. Its bigger cross-town rival, Bank of America, later swooped in to score both $35 billion-plus deals.   Thompson, however, had declared his desire to expand his retail banking presence into California. Flush with deposits, he also wanted to make more loans to consumers.   In 2005, banks were making big profits in a roaring housing market. Average U.S. home prices increased nearly 13 percent, climbing at a near-record pace. In California, home prices were up more than 117 percent over five years.   But late in the year, loan delinquencies and foreclosures edged up. Economists warned of the possible risks of a slowing housing boom. Regulators also began increasing scrutiny of nontraditional loans.   In September 2005, Thompson showed a tolerance for more risk in buying two small California lenders that made some subprime loans to borrowers with weaker credit. At that time, Wachovia was largely building its traditional mortgage business by hiring loan officers and investing in technology. A big acquisition would be a faster way to grow.   In late April 2006, Thompson learned Golden West might be for sale. The tip came from a chance encounter between an investment banker working for Golden West and an attorney who advised Wachovia. A few days later, Thompson and his chief financial officer, Tom Wurtz, were on a plane for California.   Acquisition takes shape   In more than four decades at the helm of Golden West, husband-and-wife co-CEOs Herb and Marion Sandler had turned a savings and loan with a few locations into a top 20 mortgage lender with 285 branches.   Along the way, the company was heralded for posting double-digit profit growth year after year. But with an aging leadership team and a dependency on just one type of mortgage, Golden West began to explore its alternatives, Herb Sandler said in an interview.   On Tuesday May 2, 2006, Thompson and Wurtz met with the Sandlers and other top Golden West executives at a downtown San Francisco hotel. Herb Sandler, then in his mid-70s, says he and his team had investigated Wachovia and heard good things about Thompson and how he handled mergers. Thompson and Wurtz seemed to know a lot about the company's business already, Sandler said. It may have helped that Wurtz, with the N.C. bank since the mid-1990s, previously worked for the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulated Golden West. At the agency, the lender was seen as a model outfit.   Thompson grew comfortable with the lender's nontraditional loans, later praising its conservative approach. Its option ARMs, known as Pick-A-Payment loans, gave customers monthly payment options, including a minimum payment that didn't cover all of the interest owed. Choosing that option caused the loan balance to grow, instead of shrink, a worry for regulators and consumer advocates.   The lender had pioneered its option ARM in the 1980s, but faced increasing competition from the likes of Countrywide Financial and Washington Mutual. Golden West boasted numerous safeguards, including a cap on how much the minimum payment could increase each month. Unlike most rivals, it held onto its loans, a major incentive to make good mortgages.   And Golden West had a record of virtually no loan losses  even in downturns.   The meeting, which included no-frills sandwiches for lunch, concluded with a deal well under way. Both sides moved into investigating each other's operations, a process known as due diligence.   Thompson was back in Charlotte the next day to play golf with tour star Vijay Singh in the Wachovia Championship pro-am event. In the coming days, Thompson juggled his tournament hosting duties with high-stakes dealmaking. It was very different'   During the rest of the week, a Wachovia team including chief risk officer Don Truslow and Ben Jenkins, head of the general banking operations, visited Golden West sites in California and Texas.   Top Wachovia mortgage executives were notified the purchase was in the works but they weren't drawn deeply into the due diligence. That contrasted with earlier deals investigated by the bank. Only a few months earlier, for example, mortgage executives helped vet a possible investment in mortgage and auto lender GMAC and recommended against the move. Thompson didn't do the deal.   Some technology executives who had helped check out past acquisitions weren't clued in. From everything I saw it was very different, one former executive said of Golden West. It was a done deal. Make it work. Wachovia reviewed Golden West's loan portfolio, but to what level of detail is unclear. Dozens were involved in the entire due diligence process.   Wachovia executives were impressed with Golden West's low loan losses during a major California downturn in the early 1990s, when housing prices fell 20 percent and unemployment hit 10 percent.   Thompson and other executives also took comfort in the relatively small size of Golden West's loans  less than $250,000 on average. That stemmed from a strategy to avoid the potentially more volatile high-end of the housing market. In more expensive California, the lender's average loan size was about $338,000.   The focus on smaller size loans gives you incredible confidence partly because these mortgages would get hit less than larger ones in a difficult environment, Thompson would say days later.   During his tenure as CEO, Thompson was known for a consensus-style approach to management. In an August 2006 interview, he said he was hands-on when needed but also gave his executives room to lead. Asked if he had any weaknesses, he said he needed a really good CFO, and I've got one, because I'm not a numbers guy. Three of the top executives involved in the deal  Wurtz, Truslow and Jenkins  declined to comment for this story.   Bank analyst Gary Townsend, now with Maryland-based Hill-Townsend Capital, said he met with Wurtz in August 2006 and the CFO indicated that he had overcome initial reservations about the Golden West deal after meeting with the Sandlers.   As chief risk officer, Truslow's role was to help evaluate the loan portfolio. Seen as a quiet leader, he joined the bank in 2001 with the Wachovia merger. General banking chief Jenkins, who had come up through the ranks with Thompson, was already leading an effort to build new branches in California.   A voice absent from Thompson's executive suite was long-time CFO Bob Kelly, who had departed about three months before the deal to become CEO of what is now Bank of New York Mellon. Kelly was known for speakin...
