Fitch expects charge-offs -- debts deemed uncollectible to exceed 12 percent in the first half of 2009, up from current levels of about 9 percent.  Despite the bleak forecast, the Fitch index indicates retail credit card portfolios remain healthy because higher interest rates charged to cardholders continue to stay ahead of the charge-offs experienced by the card issuers. Ratings are not expected to be downgraded any time soon. Fitchs Retail Credit Card index tracks more than $72 billion in principal receivables backing approximately $40 billion in retail or private-label credit. The largest issuers in the index are Citibank Omni Master Trust and GE Private Label Master Trust.  Fitch Ratings is a global credit ratings firm based in New York.  Capital One Financial Corp., which earlier this month agreed to buy Chevy Chase Bank and its troubled loan portfolio, has some portfolio troubles of its own.  McLean, Va.-based Capital One disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Dec. 12 that it charged off $403 million worth of credit card loans and $102 million worth of auto loans in November.  At the end of November, Capital One still had $69.8 billion in credit card loans on its books, but 4.7 percent of them are at least 30 days delinquent. Some $21.7 billion worth of auto loans were on the books at the end of November, with 9.5 percent of them more than 30 days overdue.  International loans are a smaller portion of Capital Ones portfolio. They, too, are showing weakness. Capital One wrote off $39.7 million worth of international loans in November, leaving $8.9 billion on the books. 5.4 percent of those loans were more than 30 days delinquent.  On Dec. 4, Capital One (NYSE:COF) agreed to acquire Washington, D.C.-area neighbor Chevy Chase Bank, and its $15.5 billion in assets, for $445 million in cash and 2.56 million Capital One shares. Capital One said it would take a credit charge of $1.75 billion for potential losses in Chevy Chases troubled loan portfolio.
