SAN FRANCISCO (MarketWatch) -- Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley mark the end of an era this month when they post their first earnings since becoming commercial banks, and investors resigned to the dismal results on tap are restless for any indications about the companies' plan to grow with the less risky business model. 'Nothing that happened this year alters the core of what Goldman Sachs is,' Goldman Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein said at a conference last month. 'We won't stop doing the things that made us a leading investment bank,' he added, and stuck to a forecast that Goldman will generate a 20% return on tangible equity through the ups and downs that characterize the securities business. It's understandable that Blankfein would say such things, but they are also debatable. Amid unprecedented market turmoil in September, Goldman and Morgan Stanley gained approval to become bank holding companies. The moves gave the brokerage firms access to deposits -- considered a more stable source of funding. But it also brought them under the tougher regulatory scrutiny of the Federal Reserve. That could limit the amount of borrowed money, or leverage, they use and restrict the types of businesses they operate.  The quarter, which ended Nov. 30, was among the toughest in decades as equity and credit markets collapsed. Rival brokerage firm Lehman Brothers (LEHMQ:LEHMQNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) filed for bankruptcy early in the quarter, while Merrill Lynch (MER:MERNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , another rival, was quickly acquired by Bank of America (BAC:BACNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) and insurance giant American International Group (AIG:AIGNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) succumbed to a government takeover. Early signs suggest Goldman (GS:GSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) may try to retain more of its previous business model, while Morgan (MS:MSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) pushes further into retail banking. 'Morgan Stanley has been much less sanguine about the potential impact that the change of regulators may have on its business model,' Brad Hintz, an analyst at Bernstein Research, wrote in a note to investors earlier this week. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are due to report gloomy quarterly results the week of Dec. 15, but investors want to know whether their future will be brighter as the brokerage firms transform themselves into more regulated banks. In contrast, Morgan Stanley co-President James Gorman, speaking at the same conference as Blankfein, said that limits on leverage that come with the firm's new status as a bank holding company will mean lower profitability. Return on equity may decline by three to five percentage points from a previous over-the-cycle range of 15% to 20%, he predicted. Morgan Stanley warned in a recent regulatory filing that, as a bank holding company, some of its businesses may not 'be deemed permissible financial activities,' forcing it to sell them after a grace period of up to five years, Hintz noted. The disclosure 'correctly captures the uncertainty of the current environment to the business activities of these 'new' banks,' he added. Goldman is expected to report a fiscal fourth-quarter net loss of $2.62 a share, according to the average estimate of 16 analysts in a FactSet survey. Morgan Stanley is forecast to lose 23 cents a share, another FactSet analyst poll found. However, last week both firms' shares were volatile after Credit Suisse analysts estimated that Goldman would report a $4-a-share loss for its fourth quarter. That would be dramatic, to say the least, and would be the iconic firm's first loss since going public in the late 1990s. 'Specifically, we're now forecasting total trading and principal investment revenues of negative $4.70 billion versus a positive $2.70 billion last quarter, a 25% to 30% decline in investment-banking revenues and 12% to 15% sequential-quarter declines in asset management and securities services and prime brokerage revenues,' the analysts wrote. Some of that loss will undoubtedly be due to a slowdown in the traditional underwriting and financing businesses of investment banking, but it also reflects the blowback effect of leverage the firm used to grow profits the past several years. That leverage amplifies losses as much as it does gains. Blankfein said last month that leverage is only one part of the returns the firm generates and has not been a big driver of its performance since going public in 1999. However, Bernstein's Hintz said he was skeptical about that, noting that Goldman's leverage and return on equity have been closely correlated. The analyst believes Goldman will limit some of its trading and principal investing activities, which use a lot of capital. Blankfein said in November that the firm will focus on fee-based businesses such as merger and acquisitions advice, asset management and investing alongside clients. Goldman will change its sources of funding, but Blankfein said that even banks with large deposit bases still rely a lot on wholesale funding. Regulators and investors will have to work on a longer-term solution to recent problems in wholesale funding markets, he said. Goldman will collect deposits, either through its wealth-management business, brokered certificates of deposits or acquisitions, he said. In contrast, Morgan Stanley is planning to develop a 'complete banking product offering,' including savings accounts and certificates of deposit, Gorman said last month. The institutional securities unit will be reorganized, he added, noting that Morgan is 'rationalizing' its prime brokerage, principal investing and commercial real estate origination businesses. Alistair Barr is a reporter for MarketWatch in San Francisco.
