Bank of America Corp. shareholders approved the companys acquisition of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. at a special meeting Friday, but not before Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis endured some heated comments from investors, some of whom suggested Lewis should take a pay cut rather than slash a reported 30,000 jobs as part of the deal.  BofA shareholders overwhelmingly approved the issuance of approximately 1.7 billion shares of common stock in order to pay for the Merrill acquisition, which had an announced price tag of $50 billion. The deal is now valued at less than $20 billion because of BofAs declining stock value.  More than 80 percent of the votes cast by shareholders were in favor of the issuance. The deal will transform BofAs wealth-management business, bringing its ranks of financial advisers to nearly 20,000, and will bulk up its investment-banking business as well.  Some shareholders who attended the meeting took the opportunity to criticize the performance of the banks stock, its dividend reduction and its compensation of company executives, particularly in light of a CNBC report that BofA plans to lay off 30,000 employees as part of the Merrill deal.  Judy Koenick, a shareholder from Chevy Chase, Md., suggested to Lewis that the company should halt all bonuses for at least one year. She also suggested that senior executives should make a sacrifice and work for $1 for year for the next three years -- akin to the offer recently made by automotive executives seeking government funds. You all need to take a salary cut so you dont have to fire so many employees, Koenick said. Later, when asked directly if he would work for $1 per year, Lewis flatly replied, No. Local shareholder activist John Moore voiced concerns about the absorption of Merrills investment-banking infrastructure by BofA, suggesting it would be a potentially toxic mix. When asked why the bank would choose to augment its investment-banking business now, given the carnage that has taken place among investment-banking firms over the past year, Lewis reiterated that Merrills brokerage force is the real gem of the deal. It puts us in another league, he said of Merrills brokerage force, giving the $1.8 trillion-asset bank a steady stream of income for as far as we can see. Lewis added that Merrills international investment-banking platform will also benefit the company over the long run. BofAs stock is down more than 68 percent from a year ago, and it was trading at just over $14 per share early Friday afternoon. The bank cut its quarterly dividend to 32 cents per share in October, a 50 percent reduction from the 64 cents per share it previously paid.  Several shareholders complained bitterly about the stock price and dividend cut, and one, John Burke, pointed out that Winston Salem-based BB&amp;amp;T Corp. (NYSE:BBT) has left its dividend unchanged. Lewis pointed out that more than one financial institution has suffered more than BofA.You could pick some others who are not standing at the moment, he said. Charlotte, N.C.-based Wachovia Corp. (NYSE:WB), on the brink of failure, agreed to sell itself to Wells Fargo &amp;amp; Co. Inc. (NYSE:WFC) of San Francisco for $15 billion in October. Lewis said the nation is in the midst of extraordinarily bad times. When asked by one investor how he would assess the banks recent financial performance, he said, I would say that were in the worst economic crisis since the great depression, and were Bank of America and were reflective of the economy. Merrill shareholders also approved the companys acquisition by BofA on Friday morning.  The deal is expected to close by the end of the year.  The purchase will make Charlotte, N.C.-based BofA (NYSE:BAC) the nations largest retail brokerage and wealth-management firm, with more than $2.5 trillion in client assets and more than 20,000 financial advisers.
