The financial fallout over the failed auto industry bailout bill is already starting. Save Money   In Asia, stocks tumbled after word that the Senate wouldn't approve the $14 billion emergency loan plan.  Japan's Nikkei plunged 5.6 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng index slid 6.7 percent. South Korea's Kospi fell 4.4 percent while markets in Singapore, Australia, China and India fell between 2 percent and 4 percent.  In Tokyo currency trading Friday, the grim news sent the dollar to 88.16 yen -- a 13-year low.  U.S. stock index futures pointed to a sell-off Friday on Wall Street. Dow Jones industrial index futures were down 286 points, or 3.3 percent, at 8,311 and S&amp;amp;P 500 futures slid 37.30 points, or 4.3 percent, to 837.20.  One analyst suggested that the bill is a reality check for investors. The head of Asian investment strategy at HSBC Private Bank in Singapore said the past week of gains in world markets were 'more predicated on hope than reality.'He said President-elect Barack Obama's announcement of fiscal stimulus plans helped create what he said was a typical bear market rally.  A new batch of sour economic news is also set for Friday morning isn't helping matters. The Commerce Department appears set to offer a reminder of how bad the retail sector is Friday.  A report on retail sales is due, and a survey of economists by Thomson Reuters suggests Wall Street is expecting November to show another 1.9 percent drop. Though it would be unwelcome news, it's better than the 2.8 percent decline in retail sales posted in October.  This follows news Thursday from the Labor Department, which said initial jobless claims rose to the highest level in 26 years last week. Hours later companies like Bank of America, Stanley Works, and Sara Lee announced layoffs are coming that could eventually total in the thousands.  Declines in business inventories and producer prices are also expected.  Bank Of America May Cut 35K Jobs  Bank of America announced it expects to eliminate 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over the next three years.  The massive work force reduction reflects the weak economic environment as well as the bank's absorption of Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., the Wall Street investment firm it agreed to buy in September.  Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America said it hasn't yet completed its analysis for eliminating positions, and a final number will not be determined until early next year. It said the cuts will affect workers from both companies and all types of businesses.  The shotgun deal between Bank of America and Merrill, valued at $50 billion when it was initially announced, was struck as the solvency of investment banks was in grave doubt. Shareholders of both companies voted to approve the deal last week. 
