The 2008 bonus battles have already begun.  The Wall Street Journal reports Merrill Lynch chief executive John Thain would like a 2008 bonus of up to $10 million. Merrills board, however, seems to have other ideas.  Last week I wrote about the trouble CEOs were likely to have getting big bonuses in 2008. In 2006, 96.6% of CEOs in the S&amp;amp;P 500 received bonuses  with an average cash payout of $1.9 million according to research firm Equilar. This year could be quite different:  In 2007, bonuses fell mostly on a company-by-company basis, says Steven Hall, managing director of Steven Hall &amp;amp; Partners. Youre going to see everything down this year, Hall says, with big time declines in financial services and housing industries.  Many boards have no choice but to slash bonuses. At the start of each year, most boards set and disclose specific criteria for yearend bonuses. If those benchmarkswhich might include particular revenue or profit targetsarent met, no bonus is supposed to be paid.  Even if most benchmarks are met, boards in this environment might use their discretion to limit or cancel a bonus, says Lance Froelich, a compensation consultant and senior director at BDO Seidman. Numbers might still look O.K., he says, but you cant ignore the cash position of the company [or] the fact that shareholders have been hurt.  Thains case will be a test of boards generosity this year. The argument againsts Thains bonuses are many:  1. Shareholders pain: Merrills stock lost 73% of its value this year, and it was forced to sell itself to Bank of America (BAC).  2. Employees pain: Thousands of Merrill employees could be laid off as part of the BofA acquisition.  3. Financial performance: Merrill has lost a net $11.67 billion this year.  4. Public perception: Goldman Sachs (GS) executives have already said theyre skipping their bonuses  and, unlike Merrill execs, they managed to keep Goldman independent.  On the other hand, Thain has gotten some good reviews for his first year as Merrill CEO, and he can argue he averted a worse catastrophe.  But heres a key point about bonuses: Extra compensation isnt really about looking backward, but looking forward. Boards want to encourage their top performers to stay at a firm.  This is an economic transaction, not a charitable donation. Sure, lots of hard-working employees might deserve bonuses if the only criteria were hard work and skill at their jobs. But, if a company is smart it rewards workers who are hard to replace and economically valuable. In other words, it looks to the future, not the past.  Given the public relations minefield and the effect on employee morale and especially given the fact Merrill will soon stop existing as an independent firm, its hard to see how a bonus for Thain makes economic sense.  Read the original story on CEO bonus trends here. We also put together a slideshow of CEOs who do or dont deserve year-end bonuses.  
