AllianceBernstein Holding LP appointed Wall Street veteran Peter Kraus, a former Merrill Lynch executive, as its chairman and chief executive, replacing retiring Lewis Sanders.  * Assets have nearly halved to $452 bln so far in 2008  * Sanders was Bernstein CEO when co was formed in 2000  * Shares close 6 cents higher  BOSTON, - AllianceBernstein Holding LP appointed Wall Street veteran Peter Kraus as its chairman and chief executive, replacing Lewis Sanders, who is retiring, the U.S. asset management holding company said Friday.  The change in leadership at AllianceBernstein comes as the money manager is grappling with slumping assets under management and is in the midst of its biggest ever job cuts.  Kraus, 56, was most recently head of global strategy at Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co Inc and left the brokerage as it is being acquired by Bank of America Corp. The Wall Street Journal said in October Kraus may receive a payout of up to $25 million due to the takeover of Merrill.  Earlier, Kraus spent 22 years with Goldman Sachs Group Inc , where he served for seven years as the co-head of the investment management division.  'His stellar track record, wealth of experience and a firmly-held belief in a disciplined investment process make him an ideal fit for AllianceBernstein,' Christopher Condron, AllianceBernstein board member and chief executive of AXA Financial, said in a statement.  AllianceBernstein Holding owned about 33.6 percent of AllianceBernstein LP, the operating asset management unit, as of end-September. AXA Financial, part of French insurer AXA SA , owns a majority stake in the unit.  Sanders, 62, spent four decades at the firm. He was appointed chief executive in July 2003 and became chairman in January 2005. Sanders was chief executive for seven years at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp;amp; Co before it combined with Alliance Capital in October 2000 to form AllianceBernstein.  Like other asset managers, AllianceBernstein has had a painful 2008, with assets nearly halving to $452 billion at the end of November from $800 billion at the start of January. Responding to the lower asset base, the firm said in October it will undertake its biggest ever staff cuts, but did not specify how many jobs will be axed.  AllianceBernstein shares ended up 0.3 percent at $19.20 on Friday, ahead of the announcement of the new CEO. (Reporting by Muralikumar Anantharaman; Editing by Andre Grenon)  Copyright 2008 Reuters. Click for Restrictions  As per UBM LLC's agreement with Reuters, this story will be removed from this site after 30 days.  
