WASHINGTON -- Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG on Thursday agreed to buy back a total of nearly $30 billion in risky auction-rate securities that regulators said the banks marketed to customers as safe.   The Securities and Exchange Commission formally approved the settlements with the two banking giants following preliminary deals that were reached in August. Securities regulators in Texas and New York also announced details of final agreements with the banks.   Tens of thousands of the banks' customers bought the auction-rate securities before the $330 billion market for them froze in mid-February, the SEC said in announcing the final accords.   The new settlements were the largest return of customer money in the agency's history and all the investors will be made whole, SEC Chairman Christopher Cox said in a statement. The SEC's 'prompt action after the auction-rate securities market froze ... which led to last summer's settlements in principle, helped restore liquidity to tens of thousands of investors,' Cox said. Citigroup and Switzerland's UBS neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing under the settlements. New York-based Citigroup agreed to buy back about $7 billion in the securities from affected customers, while UBS's repurchase totaled $22.7 billion.   The SEC settlements are subject to federal court approval. The two banks also agreed to refrain from future violations of securities laws. 'Today is an important procedural step in the ongoing process of resolving this matter,' Citigroup spokesman Alexander Samuelson said in an e-mailed statement. 'We have already purchased substantial amounts of auction-rate securities from our clients. The settlements filed today finalize the documentation on the agreements in principle reached in August 2008 between Citi and the SEC, Texas State Securities Board and New York attorney general.' Citigroup agreed to pay $100 million in civil fines as part of its earlier settlement with state regulators.   Spokesmen at UBS' New York offices didn't immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.   Following a wide-ranging investigation, the SEC, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo and a group representing other state regulators have reached similar settlements over auction-rate securities with at least nine other big investment banks _ which together have agreed to buy back a total of more than $50 billion of the securities. The regulators have alleged the banks misled customers into believing that auction-rate securities were safe, cash-like investments.   The auction-rate securities market involves investors buying and selling instruments that resemble corporate debt, except the interest rates are reset at regular auctions, some as often as once a week. A number of companies invested in the securities because they could treat their holdings almost like cash.   Tens of thousands of investors nationwide _ including cities and towns, charities and small businesses _ were left holding damaged securities that couldn't be readily sold for cash once the market for auction-rate securities collapsed in February, regulators said.   Settlements calling for buybacks of auction-rate securities also have been reached with Bank of America Corp., RBC Capital Markets Corp., Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co., Wachovia Corp., Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse Group and Wachovia Corp.   The SEC's enforcement director, Linda Thomsen, said Thursday the agency will continue to investigate whether other firms failed to disclose the significant risks of auction-rate securities to investors. 
