U. S. Congressional Democrats finalized legislation yesterday that would throw a US$15-billion lifeline to Detroit's ailing automakers, an amount the companies have said will keep them alive until the end of March.  The breakthrough came as Canada's finance minister said formal requests from the companies for parallel aid from the federal and Ontario governments are 'capable of being dealt with.' The White House last night was considering the bill, which requires the companies to accept oversight by a 'car czar,' or board, designated by the president in exchange for the short-term loans.  Under the proposed bill, General Motors Corp., Ford MotorCo., and Chrysler LLC must submit more comprehensive restructuring plans for their long-term survival to Washington by March 31. The U. S. president's car chief would have the power to force early repayment of the loans if the companies are judged to be failing to make progress on those long-term plans. 'We don't want to see a total collapse of any or all of the auto companies at the most vulnerable period of the American economy since the Great Depression,' Barney Frank, chairman of the House of Representatives financial services committee, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Shares of Ford and GM soared on the news, pushing up the Dow Jones industrials more than 295 points.  The draft deal is seen as a way to prevent the collapse of the companies while satisfying Republicans who are demanding they make more radical moves to return to profitability. It would give the government stock warrants in the automakers equivalent to 20% of what they borrow. The House and Senate are expected to vote on the legislation this week.  Meanwhile, the Canadian and Ontario governments are reviewing viability plans submitted on Friday by the Canadian arms of the Detroit automakers as a condition for proportional aid here.  Asked for his initial impressions of the business plans, Jim Flaherty, the federal Finance Minister, said: 'It's capable of being dealt with,' adding that more discussions are needed. 'All participants in the industry are going to need to come to the table. To invest taxpayers' money will require terms and conditions.' The Motown manufacturers are seeking a combined $6-billion in aid to help them stabilize their Canadian operations and fund future vehicle production. They have so far declined to release their restructuring plans submitted to Ottawa and Queen's Park.  Michael Bryant, Ontario's Economic Development Minister and the government's point man on the auto aid, told provincial politicians during Question Period that if the companies would not release the plans, he would, a spokesman said.  One big issue in Canada is how to finance car dealers' inventory, because banks are tightening up credit terms and conditions, said Finn Poschmann, director of research at the C. D. Howe Institute. The Bank of Canada has been pushing liquidity on the market to get them working again, but 'the credit market is not improving quickly enough to help auto finances,' he said. Export Development Canada could insure dealer financing, Mr. Poschmann said. 'The spectacle is not pretty -- government action to finance a particular sector's sales inventory. But it could be made temporary and would be easier to back out of than many other policy choices.' GM and Chrysler have said they need to US$14-billion from the U. S. government to continue operating until the end of the first quarter. They have not said how much they would need in Canada over the same period. Ford is seeking a line of credit it could tap only if needed. The  union, whose members work in factories at the Detroit three, is seeking an equity stake in GM and likely a seat on the company's board, according to U. S. media reports. The union last week agreed to concessions to help the companies win emergency aid.
