RED BLUFF - Red Bluff Ford-Mercury Inc., one of the largest Ford dealerships in Northern California, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.  But its owner said Monday that the dealership is not in danger of going out of business or laying off workers. 'It's just a move to reorganize the company,' said Phil Price, who has owned Red Bluff Ford since 1989.   He said the business will be here for many years to come. 'We will be here 20 years from now,' Price said, adding that he expects his grandson will be running the business by then.  Redding attorney Dennis Cowan, who represents the business, said Monday that the dealership owes an estimated $7 million to Wells Fargo Bank.  Red Bluff Ford, which employs about 50 workers, finances the purchase of its trucks and automobiles through Wells Fargo, he said. He said the dealership fell behind in its payments to the bank due to hard economic times. 'It's tough for car dealers across the country,' he said, noting that 14 dealerships in the Sacramento area have closed this year.  Cowan said he is working to obtain new financing for the business and that Wells Fargo Bank has been cooperating to help ensure that the business survives.  Cowan, who estimated that Red Bluff Ford has about $8 million to $9 million in assets, said he hopes to obtain that new financing within 30 to 60 days, which would allow the business to withdraw from Chapter 11.  Chapter 11 documents filed Thursday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court show that Red Bluff Ford also owes an estimated $164,109 to its 20 largest unsecured creditors.  The largest unsecured debt, $41,240, is owed to Reynolds &amp;amp; Reynolds of Chicago, which provides software and services designed for the automotive retail industry, according to the documents.  The second-largest unsecured debt, $40,000, is owed to Great Lakes Advertising in Folsom, while an additional $20,000 is owed to Ford Motor Co. in San Jose, the documents show.  Under Chapter 11, at least in most instances, the debtor retains control of business operations but is subject to the oversight and jurisdiction of the court.  The Chapter 11 process is much different than a Chapter 7 filing.  In a Chapter 7 filing the business ceases operations and a trustee sells all its assets and distributes the proceeds to the creditors.  Price said that his company will be reducing its vehicle inventory as part of its reorganization plan, cutting stock on hand from 400 to 200 units. 'There will be some short deals,' he said. Price said in an interview only late last month that it's been a difficult time for car dealerships, citing a poor economy, high gas prices and tight lending standards as reasons for fewer sales.  Tougher terms and higher rates also have hampered the financing dealers use to stock their lots, he said.  Still, Price was confident that the economy - and his business - will pick up under the new presidential administration. 'What America needs right now is a mental enema,' he said. Jim Schultz can be reached at 225-8223 or at jschultz@redding.com.
