The president of a Twinsburg scrap-metal reprocessing company that recently sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection blamed National City Bank in part Monday for freezing the firm's $30 million credit line.   Larry Musarra, president, chief operating officer and majority owner of  had lawyers file documents Nov. 26 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Canton. 'Basically, what we've had is a liquidity crisis,' said Musarra, who has been principal owner for the last seven of his 20 years at Commercial Alloys. 'National City didn't want to loan against the collateral of the business.' The company needed short-term loans, and its bank of nine years was 'unwilling to make those loans,' according to Musarra. The Cleveland bank called in outstanding loans, putting Commercial Alloys in default with the lender.   A National City spokeswoman did not respond Monday to messages seeking comment.   The proceedings of the Chapter 11 filing will keep Commercial Alloys and its affiliate companies operating under a trustee's supervision. Employment companywide was about 199 at the time of the filing, and Musarra said it has fallen since.   Bankruptcy documents said the asset value of the company and its affiliates was insufficient to pay off its total debt. Musarra said that 2008 sales will top out at about $230 million. Commercial Alloys does business in 40 states, Canada and Mexico.   The company's aluminum recycling operations are in two Northeast Ohio locations -- Twinsburg and Minerva -- and also at plants in Alabama and Florida. The company purchases recycled aluminum, processes it and makes ingots. Part of its financial problems, the company said, sprang from price swings in the international metals markets.   In addition, though, Musarra said in court filings that Commercial Alloys suffered from stressed internal operations, including the effects of inexperienced personnel, inadequate inventory control, purchasing problems and the shutdown of machinery. An inoperable metal shredder broke and did not get back into operation for 50 days, the documents said.   Musarra said he has sorted out those issues now and needs help to preserve what he said is 'a viable business.' 'We have a turnaround story here,' he said. 'We're on our way to positive net income in the first quarter. We just need to keep Nat City from liquidating the company's assets. That was the track they wanted us to go down.' Selling Commercial Alloy's assets to recover the bank's loan, he said, 'would leave our unsecured creditors empty-handed and our people out of work.' 
