WASHINGTON -- GMAC LLC won U.S. approval on Wednesday to become a bank holding company, giving it access to government lending programs and helping it stave off bankruptcy.  The Federal Reserves approval should allow GMAC to continue financing loans for General Motors Corp cars. GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner said last week that GMACs difficulties were hammering the car makers ability to sell autos.  In light of the unusual and exigent circumstances affecting the financial markets ... the board has determined that emergency conditions exist that justify expeditious action on this proposal, the Fed said in a statement. Analysts said earlier this month that without bank holding status, GMAC could have trouble staying solvent.  But bank status comes at a cost for GMACs majority owner Cerberus and its minority owner GM: Both must cut their stakes in the finance company to comply with U.S. bank regulations that prevent many kinds of companies from owning too big a share of a bank.  GMAC is getting the go-ahead to become a bank holding company just days after GM and Chrysler, which is owned by Cerberus, were promised public money from the Treasury-run financial bailout fund to stave off potential bankruptcy.  GMAC has struggled as the credit crunch has lifted its borrowing costs sharply, and the value of many of its assets has plummeted. It has lost US$7.9 billion over the last five quarters.  The lenders difficulties forced it to severely curtail financing for dealerships and for consumer purchases of new GM cars and trucks in recent months. Cutting back financing compounded the sales slump at GM, the No. 1 U.S. automaker, whose sales fell an eye-popping 41 percent in November.  Although GMAC completed a US$60 billion debt restructuring in June, it launched another debt exchange last month designed to help it raise capital in part through giving debtholders preferred stock.  That debt exchange has not gone as well as GMAC was aiming for. As of the middle of last week, investors had agreed to exchange 58 percent of the companys debt, less than the 75 percent GMAC was aiming for.  But the Fed said on Wednesday that GMACs efforts to raise capital were successful, implying that the lender had managed to exchange enough bonds to meet regulators requirements.  
