NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said significant bonuses this year for Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. (MER) Chief Executive John Thain and other executives are unjustified given the firm's financial performance.  In a letter to the investment bank's board of directors, Cuomo said reports that Thain is seeking a 2008 bonus of as much as $10 million is 'nothing less than shocking.'  Utilizing the company's own criteria, a bonus of this size appears to be unjustified, said Cuomo, saying the company has lost more than $11 billion for the year as a whole.  'Indeed, Merrill's decision to be taken over by Bank of America (BAC) seems to have been the only thing that saved Merrill from collapse,' Cuomo said. ' Clearly, the performance of Merrill's top executives throughout Merrill's abysmal year in no way justifies significant bonuses for its top executives, including the CEO.'  Merrill Lynch declined comment.  In Monday's editions, the Wall Street Journal reported that Thain was seeking a 2008 bonus of as much as $10 million, but the company's compensation committee is resisting his request. The Journal, citing people familiar with his thinking, said Thain feels he deserves a bonus because he helped avert what could have been a much larger crisis at the firm.  In his letter Monday, Cuomo also said because Bank of America Corp., which is set to acquire Merrill Lynch, has determined that Thain will continue to run the merged company's global banking, securities, and wealth management businesses, a substantial bonus to retain him doesn't appear to be justified. The acquisition is expected to be completed later this month.  'In this new environment, it is vital that boards of directors demonstrate independence and complete devotion to corporate responsibility,' Cuomo said. 'It is imperative that Merrill's board prevent wasteful expenditures of corporate funds on outsized executive bonuses and other unjustified compensation. My concern is in no way meant to be a comment on any individual's personal capacity or conduct, but rather is based on an institutional and policy concern.'  Cuomo noted that Bank of America has received about $25 billion in funds under the federal government's rescue of the U.S. banking industry.  'Paying executives at Merrill millions each in 'performance' bonuses in this context would be oxymoronic to say the least, and certainly a thumb in the eye to taxpayers,' Cuomo said.  The attorney general also asked for a meeting with Merrill Lynch's directors to discuss their justification behind any significant bonuses to executives if they decide to pay them this year.  Cuomo has sought information from banks and other financial firms that are receiving federal funds as part of the U.S. government's rescue plan, including Merrill Lynch and American International Group (AIG), about their expected bonuses and compensation to be paid to top executives. The attorney general has been pressuring the firms not to pay large bonuses to their executives this year.  -By Chad Bray, Dow Jones Newswires; 212-227-2017; chad.bray@dowjones.com  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=TiIH7KXnja6Z6AMTM75w0w%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-08-08 1249ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.  
