(RTTNews) - Bank of America Corp. (BAC:  News ) said Thursday that it expects to cut 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over the next three years under a plan designed to eliminate redundancies created as a result of its acquisition of investment bank Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co., Inc. (MER) and to reflect the current recessionary environment, which is affecting its business.  The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said a final number would not be ready until early 2009, but job cuts will be from both companies and will affect all lines of business and staff units. However, specific cities or business line where the cuts could be made have not been determined, the company added.  Bank of America currently employs about 247,000 people and Merrill Lynch about 64,900.  In September, Bank of America agreed to buy brokerage giant Merrill Lynch, which had been on the verge of a collapse following the unprecedented credit market turmoil that saw Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ.PK) go bankrupt and the government bailout of insurance giant, American International Group Inc. (AIG).  Under the deal, Merrill Lynch shareholders will receive 0.8595 of a share of Bank of America common stock for each share of Merrill Lynch common stock held immediately prior to the merger. The deal now values Merrill Lynch at about $20.5 billion as of Thursday's close.  Once the acquisition is completed, Bank of America will gain Merrill Lynch's approximately 16,000 financial advisers, making it the largest brokerage in the world with more than 20,000 advisers and $2.5 trillion in client assets. Bank of America will also supersede Citigroup Inc. (C) and JP Morgan Chase (JPM) as the number one U.S. bank.  Bank of America, whose shareholders approved the proposed merger last week, said Thursday that it currently expects to close the deal on January 1.  Bank of America's announcement about the proposed job cuts came less than a month after Citigroup said it plans to cut about 52,000 jobs in near terms. The job cuts are in addition to the 23,000 jobs eliminated by the company during the first nine months of 2008.  
