Stock markets get high on Obamas largesse. Equities have rallied on the incoming US presidents vast but vague promises of fiscal stimulus. But the enthusiasm looks overdone. Even if investors think Obama succeeds in spending wisely, the recession will still be deep. And gargantuan fiscal deficits are a long-term menace.   Get the view   Stock exchanges running out of merger options.   Merger talks between Deutsche Brse and NYSE Euronext have fizzled out. A deal would have faced big competition hurdles, and the very attempt shows how much pressure exchanges are under. With industry consolidation looking hard, exchanges will need other shelters from the storm.   Get the view   Feature: Buyout fund investors suffer credit boom hangover.   Private equity investors are trying to unload $100bn of fund holdings at a 50%-plus discount. Part of the problem is that they over-committed to the asset class in the boom. But, as Lauren Silva Laughlin explains, many investors are rushing to the exit because they think prices are about to get much worse.   Get the view   Greek riots could be omen of wider troubles.   As Greece faces a third day of riots over a police shooting, outsiders should worry. The radical left in Greece is particularly vibrant, but unemployment, marginalised youth and incompetent government are far from exclusively Hellenic. Recession could elevate social tensions.   Get the view HSBCs lending land-grab makes commercial sense.   The UK bank avoided taking state cash. Now it's looking to lend more to the government's biggest priorities: homeowners and small businesses. It sounds risky. But HSBC may be able to cherry pick the best customers in a shrinking market and score political brownie points.   Get the view   Merrill thunders into history.   Its shareholders and those of Bank of America approved their marriage. Neither group had much choice, though shares of both companies have plunged since the deal was announced. Now comes the hard part achieving Ken Lewiss synergy targets while slogging through the downturn.   Get the view Permiras mega-fund rejig is model for others.   The buyout firm is letting investors scale back commitments to its E11bn fund as long as they still pay full fees. Investors might be glad to be off the hook; for Permira, it amounts to handing money back, confirming the buyout craze is over. Other firms should follow suit.   Get the view   Jobless data suggest US labour becoming less competitive.   US employment plummeted in November as the credit crunch's toll on businesses mounted. But downward revisions to jobs figures for September and October suggest fierce global cost competition is also a factor, and one that may persist beyond a credit market recovery.   Get the view Feature: Uncle Sams debt bubble. Investors nursing losses on housing or stocks may see US Treasury securities as a safe alternative. But burgeoning demand looks to have inflated a quasi-bubble in Uncle Sams own debt. Those buying Treasuries now may be setting themselves up for more pain. Get the view 
