NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Morgan Stanley (MS) is offering many of its 8,500 brokers a bonus at the start of next year as an acknowledgment of tough economic times.  The 'upfront liquidity award,' as Morgan Stanley calls the bonus, will give the firm's brokers an extra 3.5% to 6% of their annual production in January.  Some people at the firm are referring to this liquidity award as a 'stay bonus,' similar to what brokers are offered when their firm is acquired by another. However, in acquisitions the stay bonus can be 100% or more of production for top brokers; the January bonus is far less.  A Morgan Stanley spokesman said the award is not intended to be a stay bonus.  Brokers who bring in at least $500,000 in commissions and fees annually and have been with the firm for at least five years will receive the award. The higher the production, the higher the percentage the broker receives.  The idea is that as fees and commissions decline in the bad market, brokers need the extra money now.  'Our goal is to meet the liquidity needs in this environment at a time when brokers can really use it,' the spokesman for Morgan Stanley said.  For the firm to be offering any extra incentive right now is seen as a smart move during these turbulent times.  'It is vital to keep assets right now, so firms really want to keep their brokers in place. Bonuses can help do that,' said Rich Schwarzkopf, recruiter at Schwarzkopf Recruiting Services.  Several recruiters said Morgan Stanley brokers had been asking for some sort of bonus to stay with the firm since signing bonuses to move are so high, often reaching 200% of production.  Morgan Stanley is adding other incentives to its compensation plan as well.  The firm is throwing in an end-of-year bonus for brokers who have been with the firm for at least five years and produce at least $400,000 annually.  Brokers who have been at Morgan Stanley less than five years only have to produce $200,000 or more to receive to this year-end bonus.  It technically ranges from 4.25% to 8%, but any liquidity award received at the start of the year will be subtracted from the year-end bonus.  Morgan Stanley is also offering a bonus of up to $300,000 for brokers who bring in a lot of new assets.  The firm's basic 2009 payout grid ranges from 33% of production, for those bringing in under $150,000, to 44% for top brokers with $3 million or more in production.  For most brokers, the new plan will slightly increase the percentage of production that they take home, said a branch manager in the Southeast.  It will be a 1% increase for $3 million-and-up producers and for $1 million- and-up producers who have been with the firm for at least 20 years.  Brokers who have been there less than six years and bring in $150,000 to $300, 000 will receive between a 2% and 3% increase.  The branch manager said the new payout plan will be helpful in recruiting brokers from other firms because, aside from signing bonuses, a firm's payout plan is the most important factor.  Morgan Stanley's 2009 plan is comparable to, if not higher than, those of other major brokerage firms. It gives the average $500,000 broker a 42% basic payout plus the additional bonuses and incentives.  UBS AG's (UBS) compensation plan for next year was revealed last month, offering up to 45% of production for $3 million and higher producers. The lowest bracket, bringing in under $200,000 annually, will get 28% of production.  Wachovia Corp.'s (WB) plan, announced in October, is offering all brokers 24% of the first $10,000 they produce each month, and then 50% of any fees and commissions they bring in beyond that benchmark.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) has yet to announce its 2009 payout plan for Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. (MER) brokers. Its acquisition of Merrill was approved by shareholders in a vote Friday.  (Annie Gasparro writes about financial advisors and their jobs, with a particular focus on the transformation of the brokerage business from a transaction-oriented model to fee-based financial advising. She can be reached at 201-938-5174 or by email at annie.gasparro@dowjones.com.)  TALK BACK: We invite readers to send us comments on this or other financial news topics. Please email us at TalkbackAmericas@dowjones.com. Readers should include their full names, work or home addresses and telephone numbers for verification purposes. We reserve the right to edit and publish your comments along with your name; we reserve the right not to publish reader comments.  Click here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=TiIH7KXnja6Z6AMTM75w0w%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.  (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-08-08 1252ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.  
