BOSTON (MarketWatch) -- Analysts at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods on Tuesday lowered their earnings estimates for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, saying they expect bigger charges to the balance sheets since markets have worsened significantly over the past month. 'Fourth-quarter results are expected to be grim,' KBW wrote in a research note to clients. 'Wall Street's traditional business lines have slowed to a crawl (or completely evaporated, in some cases), causing the once highly profitable investment banks to resort to significant lay-offs and a resizing of their businesses,' the analysts wrote. Goldman Sachs (GS:GSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) and Morgan Stanley (MS:MSNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) are expected to report the results next week. Through Monday's close, the stocks were both off more than 60% for the year-to-date period as the credit crisis has hammered the financial sector. The shares opened Tuesday's session lower. Once among Wall Street's mightiest risk-takers, the two firms have converted to bank holding companies, a move that has let them tap the government's bailout funds. However, Goldman and Morgan will no longer be able to pile on hefty leverage to juice returns, must build their deposit bases, and will be subject to higher regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, Wall Street has undergone a seismic shift in recent months and investment banking has ground to a halt with debt markets essentially closed. Investment bankers Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers have collapsed, Merrill Lynch (MER:MERNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:, , ) has been acquired by Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BACNews, chart, profile, moreLast: Delayed quote dataAnalyst   Create alertInsider  Discuss  Financials Sponsored by:  , , ) , and markets have only deteriorated further. 'In the last two weeks of November, the global markets continued to worsen from an already depressed level,' KBW analysts wrote. The analysts said they lowered their earnings forecasts 'to reflect additional write-downs of mortgage/other related assets given the sharp declines in the markets, the expectation for lower sales and trading revenues and extremely weakened investment banking activity.' KBW slashed its fourth-quarter estimate on Morgan Stanley to a loss of 19 cents a share, from profit of 33 cents. Meanwhile, it forecast a loss of $3.81 a share for Goldman, compared with an expected loss of $2.10 a share, previously. Volatility and deleveraging Wall Street continues to struggle with its exposure to residential and commercial real estate loans, other credit investments and plunging equity markets. Several other analysts have trimmed their Goldman and Morgan estimates in recent weeks. 'Goldman Sachs shares have been very volatile over the past month, even relative to other capital markets-sensitive names,' wrote Fox-Pitt Kelton analyst David Trone in a Dec. 2 report. The stock's instability is 'likely due to the emergence of Goldman's first loss ever, continued deterioration in global economics and capital markets, and speculation over the viability of its model.' Trone earlier this month increased his quarterly estimated loss for Goldman to $3.65 a share, and projected a loss of 50 cents a share for Morgan. 'Owing to the severely depressed capital markets and the continued downward spiral in asset values over the last few weeks of November, we believe marks to each firm's respective credit exposures, real estate exposures and investments could be higher than initial expectations,' the KBW analysts noted. Highlighting the difficult market conditions, Morgan Stanley Chief Executive John Mack reportedly will forego a year-end bonus for 2008.  Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman's chief, is also getting no bonus. The KBW analysts said the headwinds in financial markets 'right now feel insurmountable' and that Goldman and Morgan Stanley need to reduce headcount and resize the businesses. 'Asset repricing continues, liquidity remains tight and the delevering of balance sheets will continue. The combination of these factors does not paint a particularly pretty picture for the near term,' the analysts wrote. 'In the short run, there is nothing particularly positive that has changed in operating fundamentals to imply a catalyst for these stocks but, historically, the capital markets firms have led the recovery in prior cycles,' they added. John Spence is a reporter for MarketWatch in Boston.
