NEW YORK -- Bank of America Corp. said Thursday it expects to cut 30,000 to 35,000 jobs over the next three years, as it faces a deteriorating economic environment and tries to absorb Merrill Lynch &amp;amp; Co. The final number could be even higher, analysts say. Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America said it hasn't yet completed its analysis for eliminating positions, and it won't until early next year. The company and Merrill have about 308,000 employees in total, and the cuts will affect workers from both companies and all types of businesses.   Thursday's announcement of job cuts at Bank of America was hardly unexpected, considering the merger and the wave of job losses seen in the banking industry and in other sectors over the past few months. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch have already eliminated thousands of investment banking jobs over the past year, as have other banks, in an effort to lower costs as they face increasing defaults in mortgages, credit card debt and other loans.   Other big banks -- which received loans from the government's bailout fund -- have been cutting jobs as well.   New York-based Citigroup Inc. has been slashing jobs the most. By next year, Citigroup expects to have decreased its work force by 75,000, or 20percent, since its head count peaked in late 2007. JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. is shedding about 7,000 employees, or 10 percent, of its investment bank staff, and cutting 9,200 jobs at Washington Mutual Inc., the bank it acquired in September. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, meanwhile, are reducing their staffs by about 10 percent.   The massive layoffs have raised questions about executive pay: With so many people losing their jobs, should the companies' executives still receive lucrative packages? CEOs at Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. and Bank of America Corp. haven't revealed whether they will receive bonuses this year, but those at Merrill, Morgan Stanley and Goldman have announced that they will forgo them. 
