Boston Business Journal - by Tim McLaughlin  Related News  The first phase of the U.S. recession staggered a number of Massachusetts community banks, but scored no knockouts.  U.S. bank failures surged in November, bringing the total to 22 in 2008. But Massachusetts banks, so far, have escaped the closely watched failed banks list kept by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Generally speaking, Massachusetts banks are performing very well, said Daniel Forte, president of the Massachusetts Bankers Association.  Still, more than one-third of Bay State community banks lost money during the three months that ended Sept. 30.  Many bank chief executives blame the bailout of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for those third-quarter losses. Banks that bought Fannie and Freddies preferred stock took a beating when the value of those securities essentially was wiped out. To be sure, its a sore point among CEOs because regulators promoted the investment.  Theres no increase in unprofitable banks if you net out the impact of Fannie and Freddie investments, Forte said. In fact, banks that took Fannie-Freddie related losses will be able to book tax benefits that could approach $70 million in the fourth quarter.  While banks always strive to make money, the bottom line may not be the most important indicator of health for lenders as the recession heads into a second year.  For a community bank, its all about asset quality, Danversbank CEO Kevin Bottomley said.  The level of nonperforming assets at Massachusetts banks is well below the national average, according to the most recent quarterly report by the FDIC. Noncurrent loans (90 days or more past due or in nonaccrual status) accounted for 0.70 percent of total loans among 148 state-chartered banks in Massachusetts. Thats up from 0.48 percent in the year-ago period.  In contrast, the national average for all FDIC-insured institutions was 2.31 percent.  I never said wed be insulated, but I thought we were in far better condition going into this economy than the late 1980s or early 1990s, Bottomley said.  He said an early indicator of a struggling bank is one whose noncurrent loans are 1.5 percent to 2 percent of total loans. Several banks in Massachusetts are far beyond that level, but the majority are not. Aggressive residential construction lenders are under the most pressure. One such lender, Lowells Butler Bank, reported that nearly 12 percent of its total loans were noncurrent at the end of September, FDIC filings show.  Community banks here largely stayed on the sidelines and watched Wall Street-backed mortgage lenders flood the market with risky loans. Its no coincidence that many of those lenders are out of business. Washington Mutual Inc., the biggest bank to fail in U.S. history, counted Massachusetts as one of its biggest markets for option adjustable-rate mortgages, a product notorious for hitting borrowers with sudden and sharp payment increases.  Unlike in the sand states of California, Nevada and Florida, rampant residential real estate speculation, for the most part, has been absent here.  This time, banks didnt get ahead of themselves, said Bottomley, who also is chairman of the Massachusetts Bankers Association.  In general, he says, community banks started with stronger capital levels than in previous economic downturns. At the same time, though, Bottomley acknowledges that big bank woes can trickle down to the businesses that community banks finance.  As Forte put it, You can only predict what your experience has been in the past. No industry can be immune from bumps in the economy.  Meanwhile, community banks are reporting robust deposit growth, thanks partly to concerns about the stability of large national banks. They also are taking advantage of a bigger opportunity for commercial and industrial lending, a key source of working capital for the business community. Yields on C&amp;amp;I lending can be among the most lucrative book of business in a banks loan portfolio.  Bottomley said community banks are poised to scoop up C&amp;amp;I business thats being jettisoned by big banks removing balance sheets leverage.  One concern going forward is an FDIC proposal that would penalize banks that rely heavily on Federal Home Loan Bank advances as a funding source. Most U.S. banks take advantage of low-cost FHLB advances, which are seen as a reliable, safe funding source thats vital to home lending.  We understand the FDIC is trying to shore up (deposit insurance) funds, Forte said. The concern for us is, at the same time theyre trying to create more residential loans, the FDIC is trying to tax a very prudent, safe borrowing instrument. We will be arguing this is not the thing to be doing. It will slow residential lending.  
