The workers are not and have not been overpaid!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!      Average hourly wage is a few cents less at Big 3 factories than at Totota factories for long-time employees. Maximum is $29 and some odd cents at the Big 3 and Toyota, with $69 being the cost including health benefits and retirement at the Big 3 and $49 at Toyota. However, worker's wages and benefits still only amount to about 10% or so of the cost to produce a new car.      The American public is being lied to concerning the UAW not taking wage and benefit cuts as they have been doing so since 2003. Workers that will hire in under the new contract will be paid only $14/hour, and it takes years to build seniority and gain better wages.      The Big 3 has been producing good and fuel efficient cars for some time now, plus they are integral to the national defense. Big 3 Euro model cars are the best selling and the best bang for the buck in Euroep, and only a few of these models are now sold in the USA, but it is planned for more to be built and sold here. The Big 3 did indeed make some errors in the past and one of them was to attempt to bust the UAW by moving factories outside of the USA, and what they did was cut their own throats to some degree, just as the financial corps. did by offering ridiculous variable rate and balloon motgages to people.      The government gave out $385 billion to the financial corps. with no strings attached and a good deal of that money was squandered on parties and bonuses and Citibank that recieved $45 billion over a 2-week period paid the New York Mets baseball Cllub owners $20 million to name the Mets stadium City Stadium.      When the nation needed the Big 3 during WWII and other wars they immediately did what was asked of them. Detroit and Michigan and Ohio were known as the 'Arsenal of Democracy'.      Over the years Michigan and Ohio have contributed more than their share of tax dollars and the lives and blood of our young men and women to support our nation, and neither Michigan nor Ohio has ever recieved the same share of tax dollars in Federal aid that many other states have recieved over the years. You can check the tax and Federal aid statistics and the 'blood and loyalty' statistics, and here is an example of the latter 'blood and loyalty' statistics: Michigan, 7th highest of all the states in the number of KIA (Killed in Action, and the wounded are many, many, many more) during WWII, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War, and Ohio is ahead of Michigan, and West Virginia has the highest per capita KIA during the Vietnam War. The only southern state to have higher stats. is Texas.      Layoffs are occurring all over and in every industry already, and 535,000 or so people have filed unemployment calims in just November alone, with many hundreds of thousands more throughout the 2008 year.      The nation cannot afford to see the demise of our domestic American auto corps., as this will affect the steel, coal, financial, textile, rubber, glass, leather, electrical parts, consumer retail etc. etc. etc. industries and also even family owned restaurants and stores.      What you are seeing is the effects of our fair trade policies with the Japanese and Chinese and their former and present unfair trade and business actions with us. Seems there are some people that wish to lower our standard of living ever downward.      Temporary layoffs have occurred before and are in effect now, but any more damage to the usto industry and the whole nation will suffer drastically.      Our government gave hundreds of billions of our tax $$ to these half-crooked and crime ridden financial institutions but is shitting on the industrial corps. and workers that have served our nation over the last 100-years.      I think some people in Congress and elsewhere should get their heads out of those dark and smelly holes that their heads have been stuck in for so long.      Chris
