 NEW YORK American International Group Inc., once the world's largest insurer, said Monday that continued financial market turmoil resulted in a large third-quarter loss.  The results come as the U.S. government also Monday announced a restructuring of a bailout plan for the troubled insurer, boosting aid to the company to around $150 billion.  New York-based AIG said it lost $24.47 billion, or $9.05 per share, after a profit of $3.09 billion, or $1.19 per share, a year ago. Revenue declined 97 percent to $898 million from $29.84 billion in the third quarter 2007.  The latest results include $7.05 billion in unrealized losses at AIG Financial Products, the source of credit-default swaps, and pre-tax losses of $18.31 billion tied to the declining value of AIG's investment portfolio.  AIG's general insurance business swung to a loss on $1.39 billion in catastrophe losses, primarily related to hurricanes Gustav and Ike, falling investment income and increased losses at United Guaranty Corp.  General insurance net premiums dipped nearly 1 percent to $11.73 billion, while total net premiums earned edged up 2.6 percent to $11.73 billion. Life-insurance and retirement-services profits were more than halved by weak partnership and mutual-fund results.  Adjusted to exclude certain items, operating losses totaled $9.24 billion, or $3.42 per share, versus a profit of $3.49 billion, or $1.35 per share, last year. The results fell short of estimates. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, on average, forecast a loss estimate of 90 cents per share on revenue of $18 billion. 'Reported earnings are not indicative of the underlying core earnings power of our insurance businesses, which remain solidly capitalized,' said AIG President and Chief Executive Edward Liddy in a statement. 'Retention of our customers remains strong and reflects the support and loyalty of our long-term partners, intermediaries and sponsors.' The government's new financial assistance to AIG includes pouring $40 billion into the company in return for partial ownership. The Federal Reserve said in September it would loan a total of $123 billion to AIG to help rescue the ailing insurer.  The action Monday was taken as it became increasingly clear that the original financial lifeline thrown to AIG would not be sufficient to stabilize the teetering company.   @Nyx.CommentBody@  Disclaimer  The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting.  Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer.   If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. 
