American International Group Inc. (AIG   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating) was reportedly near a new deal with the U.S. government to scrap its original $123 billion bailout plan and replace it with a new $150 billion package that would ease the borrowing terms for the troubled insurer, reports the Wall Street Journal.  Quoting people familiar with the matter, the report said under the revised package, the government might replace its original $85 billion loan of two-year duration with a $60 billion loan with a five-year duration. Interest on the loan is set to decline to 3% plus Libor from 8.5% plus three-month Libor interest-rate benchmark.  The $150 billion revised rescue plan from the Government consists of a $60 billion loan, a $40 billion preferred stock investment and $50 billion in capital mostly to buy and backstop distressed assets in two special financing vehicles.  The changes follow widespread criticism from some large shareholders of the original package, which would have required AIG to quickly sell assets in a declining market while also paying steep interest rates on its loans from the government.  The revised bailout plan from the government is designed to enhance the company's ability to sell assets for a decent price and the taxpayer's ability to recover the money that has been pumped into the beleaguered insurer. The new package aims to shift to the government many of the risks once absorbed by AIG, potentially exposing the government to billions of dollars in future losses.  Under the revised deal, AIG would transfer the troubled holdings into two separate entities that would be capitalized by the government.  In the first such vehicle the government would inject about $30 billion and AIG would put in $5 billion and the money would be used to purchase the underlying securities connected to AIG's credit default swaps. The vehicle would seek to acquire underlying securities with a face value of about $70 billion.  The second vehicle would be capitalized with about $20 billion from the government and $1 billion from AIG and the fund would be used to resolve the liquidity problems in AIG's securities lending business. The vehicle would buy the illiquid securities the AIG unit holds, known as residential mortgage-backed securities, for about 50 cents on the dollar. AIG would use the proceeds to shut down the $37.8 billion lending facility which is has not yet fully tapped.  The details of the revised deal could be announced as early as Monday, when the New York-based company is expected to report third-quarter earnings.  The revised package may give the company's chief executive officer Edward Liddy additional time to salvage AIG, which was rescued by the U.S. government on September 15 from bankruptcy threat after three quarterly losses that exceeded $18 billion. Efforts to repay the original $85 billion loan stalled as plunging financial markets forced potential buyers to shore up their own balance sheets.  Challenges facing AIG are enormous. With so much uncertainty about its future, it is battling to retain some key business customers as well as valuable employees in its operating units. A crucial goal is improving AIG's capital structure to give the property-casualty-insurance units a better chance to remain profitable and avoid punishing ratings-agency downgrades, the report added.  AIG rose $0.24 or 12.83% and closed Friday's regular trading session at $2.11 on volumes of about 74 million.  For comments and feedback: contact editorial@rttnews.com Copyright(c) 2008 RealTimeTraders.com, Inc. All Rights Reserved  For full details on American Internat Group (AIG) click here. American Internat Group (AIG) has Short Term PowerRatings of 4. Details on American Internat Group (AIG) Short Term PowerRatings is available at This Link.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
