AIG collapse put transit agency in jeopardy with lenders  \   Chris Rossi/The Gazette  The Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Administration hopes to be covered by the economic bailout.  Featured Jobs  Loading...  More News    Metro officials are awaiting word on whether the federal government will take over as insurer of the lease-back agreements that were backed by ailing insurance giant American Insurance Group.  The Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Administration joined a group of 31 transit agencies Tuesday on Capitol Hill to discuss the need for the government to step in as part of the economic bailout, said Beverly Scott, chairwoman of the American Public Transportation Association and general manager and CEO of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority.  The financial collapse of AIG led to the insurance company's credit rating being downgraded, which put public transit agencies in technical default with lenders.  Last Friday, Metro settled with Belgian bank KBC Group for an undisclosed sum involving a lease-back agreement being in technical default.  Metro and other public transit agencies used lease agreements to fund large capital projects from the 1980s to 2003. The systems would sell assets to banks and then lease them back in order to raise funds. Investors also received tax benefits from the government for the transactions.  Metro could have faced a total of $400 million in default penalties because of 14 similar lease-back agreements with other lenders who were watching the outcome of the case closely.  As part of the agreements, the public transit systems had to have insurance companies as guarantors of the assets.  Transit administrators lobbied on Capitol Hill on Tuesday for the U.S. Treasury to step in as the guarantor, Scott said.  That would not cost the federal government money, transit administration officials said. The move would protect transit agencies from 'predatory action' on the part of banks, Scott said.  No decision involving Treasury had been announced as of Thursday.  The nation's largest public transit systems will be 'financially crippled in the coming months if nothing is done to resolve this crisis,' Scott said. 'The innocent victims will be the millions of riders who rely on public transit every day.'  Without the federal government stepping in as guarantor to replace AIG and other insurance companies, the transit systems would owe $2 billion to banks immediately, Scott said.  'This is not just a threat, this is a reality that transit agencies are facing nationally,' said Metro General Manager John Catoe.  The settlement last week resolved one of the legal actions against Metro, but there could be 14 more, Catoe said.  'There's been no loss to the banking institutions, no missed payments to the banks,' Catoe said. 'This is not a bailout request.'  Because the federal government took an ownership stake in AIG recently as part of a $150 billion bailout, the transit officials planned their meeting with lawmakers in Washington to ask that the government take over as insurers of the lease-back agreements.  'This would be at little to no cost to the federal government, and the transit agencies would no longer be in technical default of the contracts,' Catoe said.  
