BEIJING: China Life Insurance is interested in buying the Asian assets of American International Group, a senior China Life manager briefed on the situation said Monday. 'We want to buy parts of AIG's business, especially those in areas of Asia such as Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea,' the manager at the company, which is based in Beijing, said in an interview. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because a deal was not yet public.  On Monday, Chinese newspapers, including the Southern Daily, quoted the China Life president, Wan Feng, as having said Sunday at a media briefing that the quality of AIG's insurance business in Asia was good but needed further observation, since AIG's financial condition might worsen.  AIG, once the biggest insurer in the world, is putting its nonessential businesses up for sale.  Hit by the subprime mortgage crisis, the company received a $152 billion bailout from the U.S. government to avoid bankruptcy. The Japanese business daily Nikkei reported Friday that a consortium led by the Chinese sovereign wealth fund and including Chinese insurers was in talks to buy a 49 percent stake in the AIG unit Alico in a deal that could be worth as much as $10.6 billion. AIG's preferential talks with the consortium led by the Chinese sovereign wealth fund, China Investment Corporation, carry a year-end deadline, the newspaper reported.  A China Life spokesman, Li Ke, and an AIG spokeswoman based in Shanghai, Annie Hou, would not comment Monday. CIC declined to comment on the report last week. 'AIG's insurance assets in Asia, especially in China, are quite attractive to Chinese insurers that are eager to increase market share and expand overseas,' said Peng Yulong, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Company. But, he added, 'Chinese insurers are not the principal movers in this case, as there's more than just one company wanting to buy the assets, and price is also an issue.' AIG's Alico, or American Life Insurance Company, has operations in more than 55 countries and has a major presence in Japan. Nikkei reported that AIG was considering a sale of Alico on the condition that it could keep more than 50 percent of voting rights in the company.  Another unit of AIG, American International Assurance, or AIA, is one of the biggest life insurers in Southeast Asia, with operations in China, Australia, India, Japan, Singapore and Korea. AIA China, wholly owned by AIG, is the country's oldest and biggest foreign life insurer.
