-On November 10 Fitch Ratings affirmed the 'A' long-term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) of United Guaranty Corp. (UGC), the 'AA-' insurer financial strength (IFS) rating of United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company (UGRIC), and the 'A' IFS rating of Ezer Mortgage Insurance Company Ltd. (EMI). All of the ratings were removed from Rating Watch Evolving and assigned Negative Rating Outlooks.  The rating actions were part of Fitch's broader rating actions taken on UGC's ultimate parent company American International Group, Inc. (AIG). Fitch's rating actions on AIG reflect the agency's belief that collectively, various actions announced November 10 by AIG and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) provide a high level of explicit and implicit U.S. government support for AIG as the company implements its previously announced restructuring plan. For more details on Fitch's rating actions on AIG, please see the press release dated Nov. 10, 2008, 'Fitch: Government Support a Benefit for AIG; Ratings Affirmed' available at www.fitchratings.com.  This release is intended to provide more detailed information specific to Fitch's rating actions on AIG's mortgage insurance subsidiaries. Additionally, Fitch is withdrawing the long-term issuer rating of UGC and the IFS rating of EMI at the request of AIG. Previously, UGC and EMI's ratings were linked to a company guaranty provided by AIG which is no longer in place.  UGRIC's 'AA-' IFS rating reflects the explicit support it derives from AIG in the form of a net worth maintenance agreement, a stop-loss treaty provided by National Union Fire Insurance Company ('AA-' IFS-rated AIG subsidiary), and UGRIC's standalone claims paying resources. The AIG support agreements provide important support to UGRIC's IFS rating given recent stresses in UGRIC's insured portfolio.  The Negative Outlook is consistent with Fitch's view of the overall mortgage insurance sector. Fitch expects that UGRIC's financial results will face continued challenges over the near-to-intermediate term as a result of continued deterioration in its insured portfolio, particularly related to the company's 2007 and 2006 vintage insured exposure. Fitch also believes that business underwritten in the first half of 2008 may exhibit similar performance characteristics as the 2007 vintage given that UGRIC's more meaningful underwriting changes were not fully incorporated until the second quarter of 2008. Moreover, Fitch believes the performance of UGRIC's insured portfolio, which has been negatively impacted by declining home prices and poor underwriting standards, may face further pressure from the slowing U.S. economy and rising unemployment.  While UGRIC has, like other mortgage insurers, taken significant steps to improve the quality of future business, Fitch believes that the negative economic pressures on its legacy insured portfolio will outweigh positive developments in pricing and underwriting over the near-to-intermediate term. Fitch also will continue to monitor the overall impact that government initiatives and lender-initiated loan modification programs may have on the mortgage insurance sector as a whole and UGRIC in particular.  Fitch notes that UGRIC's immediate parent company, UGC, maintained a $3.4 billion of exposure to pooled second lien mortgage insurance as of June 30, 2008 conducted through United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company of North Carolina (UGRICNC; not rated by Fitch). The second-lien insured exposure is expected to suffer material losses given the current operating environment. Fitch gains comfort in steps taken by AIG to fully support the second-lien business in an effort to ensure an orderly runoff of this business, and does not expect the losses experienced in the second-lien company to impact the claims-paying resources of UGRIC.  As of June 30, 2008 UGRIC along with UGC's other first-lien mortgage insurance subsidiaries maintained $1.5 billion of statutory capital and $28.4 billion of risk in force. UGRIC also maintained $1.1 billion of trust balances related to captive reinsurance agreements.  Fitch has withdrawn the following ratings:  United Guaranty Corporation  --Long-term issuer rating at 'A'.  Ezer Mortgage Insurance Company Ltd.  --IFS 'A'.  Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site.  
