You and yourclients may be worrying about whether they can really count onthose hefty life insurance policies they've got. Just thisMonday, the government scrapped an earlier $123 billion bailoutplan for AIG only to replace it with a new $150 billion lifelinewhile numerous other insurers have required capital injections toshore up their balance sheets. MetLife, for example, raised capitalby issuing $2 billion in new stock. The Hartford received a $2billion investment from Allianz, a Germany-based insurer. And aGoldman Sachs report warned that Prudential Life InsuranceCompany's exposure to mortgage-backed securities and realestate loans could result in up to $4 billion in losses andreserves.  Back inOctober, N.Y.-based Fitch Ratings downgraded the life insuranceindustry outlook to negative from stable primarily due tomortgage-related investments. 'While less exposed [tomortgage-related investments] ... life insurers areexperiencing a significant deterioration in investment results,which has negatively impacted earnings and capital,' theFitch report said.  Moody'sInvestors Service, also based in New York, issued a negativeoutlook on the life insurance industry as well, though it saidinsurers are in better financial shape than banks and brokeragefirms. But profitability and capital adequacy are declining due tolosses in asset-backed securities, stocks, bonds and loans, as wellas the increasing cost of hedging variable annuity principalguarantees.  'Risinginvestment losses, falling equity markets and weakening economicconditions will pressure the profitability, financial flexibilityand capital adequacy of these insurers over the next 12 to 18months,' says Laura Bazer, Moody's vice president.'Life insurers' top and bottom lines will both be underpressure as the economy continues to slow.'  Does this meanwe could see some brand-name insurers go belly up? Bazer says thatwhile life insurers face a negative outlook, she is not expecting araft of bankruptcies. Insurers are 'healthier than most othertroubled financial services sectors.'  Nevertheless,profitability and capital adequacy will suffer as insurance companyinvestments in asset-backed securities, corporate bonds and loanssuffer over the next few years, resulting in higher losses. Thehigh cost of hedging variable annuity principal guarantees is alsohurting the bottom line, she says.  Whatever shapethe future takes, the recent near-collapse of the financial systemand the deterioration of insurance companies broadcasts a messageof prudence to financial advisors. They should recommend insurancecompanies with the strongest ratings--while watching out forhigher premiums. Financially weak companies maycarry A.M. Best ratings below B+, Fitch ratings belowBBB-, Moody's ratings below Baa3 and S&amp;amp;P ratings belowBBB-, say analysts. If a company goes belly-up, policy owners getlimited protection from state guarantee associations, which arefunded by insurance companies. State laws vary, but the mostthey'll typically cover is $300,000 in life insurance anddeath benefits, $100,000 each in cash surrender or withdrawal valuefor life insurance; withdrawal and cash values for annuities; andhealth insurance policy benefits.  Be advised thestate guarantee associations only cover insurance that is a directobligation of the insurance company. They do not cover variableannuity principal guarantees.  There areseveral companies that evaluate the financial strength of lifeinsurers. But only a small percentage carried top financialstrength ratings, according to an analysis published in September,2008 by the Insurance Forum, an Ellettsville, Ind.-based monthlynewsletter. The publication reported:  * A.M. Best(www.ambest.com) rates 965life insurance companies, but only 3.8 percent or 37 companiescarry the top A++ (Superior) ratings. Another 149 companies, or15.4 percent, are rated A+ (Superior).  * Standard&amp;amp; Poor's (www.standardandpoors.com)rates 361 life insurance companies, but only 5.8 percent or 21firms get its top rating, AAA (Extremely Strong). Another 23companies, or 6.4 percent, achieve AA+ (Very Strong)ratings.  * Moody'sInvestors Service rates 188 life insurance companies, but only 3.2percent, or six firms, carry Aaa (Exceptional) ratings. Another 11companies, or 5.9 percent, carry Aa1 (Excellent)ratings.  * Fitch(www.fitchratings.com)rates 317 life insurance companies, but only 3.2 percent, or 10firms, get its highest AAA (Exceptionally Strong) rating. Another46 companies, or 14.5 percent, carry AA+ (Very Strong)ratings.  Each month, theInsurance Forum publishes a 'Watch List' ofinsurance companies that have developed problems due to capitalinadequacy.  The publicationis an excellent source of information on insurance companystrength. But it's still prudent for people with largemulti-million dollar estates to place funds in a couple ofdifferent insurance companies that have registered high financialstrength ratings over the long term.  The followinginsurance companies, according to the July issue of A.M. BestReview, have maintainedtheir high financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) to A++(Superior) for 75 years:  * Aviva Life and  Annuity Company, rated A+.  * Beneficial  Life Insurance Company, rated A.  * Country Life  Insurance Company, rated A+.  * Genworth Life  and Annuity Insurance Company, rated A+.  * John Hancock  Life Insurance Company, rated A++.  * Metropolitan  Life Insurance Company, rated A+.  * Nationwide  Life Insurance Company of America, rated A.  * New York Life  Insurance Company, rated A++.  * Northwestern  Mutual Life Insurance Company, rated, A++.  * Penn Mutual  Life Insurance Company, rated A+.  * Principal Life  Insurance Company, rated A+.  * Prudential  Insurance Company of America, rated A+.  * Standard  Insurance Company, rated A.  * Union Security  Insurance Company, rated A.  * Western  Southern Life Insurance Company, rated A++  Although therating agencies provide valuable services to investors andconsumers, there are caveats.  'They(rating agencies) are concerned more with corporate bondholdersthan with insurance policyholders,' says Moshe Milevsky,finance professor at York University, Toronto. 'It is alsovery difficult to summarize the complexity of an insurancecompany's liabilities with just one letter ornumber.'  Milevsky alsostresses that in today's unstable economic environment,rating agencies are in a difficult situation.  'They arebalancing on a knife's edge,' he says. 'If theydowngrade a company too early or prematurely, they can actuallycause (the company's) financial downfall. If they wait toolong, they will be accused of reacting as opposed to forecasting.The bottom line is that rating agencies are no longer mereobservers in the financial process, they are actually impactingwhat they are supposed to be observing.'  One long-timecritic has been Martin Weiss, Ph.D., of Jupiter, Fla., who sold hisinsurance rating services to The Street.comin 2006. His chiefcriticisms:  * The ratings  are purchased by insurance companies from the rating  agencies.  * Companies can  shop for the most liberal ratings.  * Rated  companies get to preview their ratings before they are published so  that they can appeal downgrades and delay their publication. Or  they can fire the rating agency and look elsewhere.  The main thing,perhaps, is to do as much of your own homework aspossible--and find an insurance expert or agent you can trustto evaluate your clients' policies.  
