DAYTONA BEACH, FL AND TAMPA, FL, November 5 / MARKET WIRE/ --   Michael A. Paschke, Regional Executive Vice President of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. (NYSE: BRO), and Bruce A. Curry, Principal of Health Insurance Exchange, Inc. of Seattle, Washington, today announced the asset acquisition of Health Insurance Exchange, Inc. by a subsidiary of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. Health Insurance Exchange, Inc., with annualized revenues of approximately $1.2 million, focuses exclusively on employee benefits insurance for individuals and businesses in the state of Washington and throughout the United States. Bruce Curry and his staff will join Brown &amp;amp; Brown's existing Seattle, Washington profit center under the leadership of Jeff Martins. Mr. Curry will assume the title of Senior Vice President and Benefits Manager for the Seattle profit center.   Mr. Paschke stated, 'We are extremely pleased to have Bruce and his staff of insurance professionals join our ever growing presence in the Northwest. This team of talented insurance professionals will provide us with new resources and service capabilities for our employee benefits clients throughout the State of Washington.' Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of insurance and reinsurance products and services, as well as risk management, third-party administration, managed health care, and Medicare set-aside services and programs. Providing service to business, public entity, individual, trade and professional association clients nationwide, the Company is ranked by Business Insurance magazine as the seventh largest independent insurance intermediary in the United States. The Company's web address is www.bbinsurance.com.   This press release may contain certain statements relating to future results which are forward-looking statements. These statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the current belief of Brown &amp;amp; Brown, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively the 'Company') regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the Company's control. It is possible that the Company's actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, are contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some factors include those factors relevant to Brown &amp;amp; Brown's consummation and integration of the announced acquisition, including any matters analyzed in the due diligence process, material adverse changes in the customers of the company whose operations are being acquired and material adverse changes in the business and financial condition of either or both companies and their respective customers. All forward-looking statements included in this press release are made only as of the date of this press release, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or correct any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that subsequently occur or of which the Company thereafter becomes aware.  Contact:  Cory T. Walker  Chief Financial Officer  (386) 239-7250 
