By Faith Hung   TAIPEI, Nov 10 (Reuters) - American International Group Inc (News/Aktienkurs) is aiming to sell its 95 percent stake in Taiwan life   insurer Nan Shan Life, a source said on Monday, in a deal that   local media estimated would be worth $2-2.5 billion.   The troubled insurer planned to unload the unit as soon as   the first quarter of next year, said the source, who is familiar   with the deal and spoke on condition of anonymity.   'One of AIG's priorities is to raise cash to pay back its   debts, and the company wants to do that as soon as possible,' the   source told Reuters by telephone.   'The global financial environment has been tough though,   making it hard for them to sell Nan Shan at a satisfactory   price,' said the source.   AIG had decided to sell its entire stake in Nan Shan for   $2-$2.5 billion as it tries to lure potential buyers such as   Cathay Financial and Fubon Financial, the   Economic Daily newspaper said, citing unnamed market sources.   Previously, AIG had only wanted to sell a 49 percent stake,   local media said.   Nan Shan officials could not be reached for comment.   Cathay Financial, Shin Kong Financial and Fubon   Financial -- AIG's major competitors in Taiwan -- were approached   by investment banks including Citigroup, officials from the   companies said.   AIG has hired Citigroup and Goldman Sachs to advise on   the sale of the unit, local media said.   Mega Financial, the island's No.3 financial holding   firm, and Shin Kong said recently they were not interested in   buying Nan Shan.   AIG would not be the first troubled global insurer to get rid   of its assets to raise cash.   Fubon said last month it would acquire ING's   insurance business in Taiwan for $600 million, a day after the   Dutch financial group secured a 10 billion euro ($13.5 billion)   government cash injection.   Cathay Financial would not make a decision until AIG is final   on details such as pricing, a Cathay official said.   On Sunday night, AIG's board was nearing approval of a   revised U.S. bailout to replace a previous $85 billion rescue, a   person familiar with the matter said.   Nan Shan had previously said it planned to raise T$47.22 billion   ($1.45 billion) by selling new shares to AIG, as Taiwan insurers   scramble to raise new funds as portfolio values plummet.   (US$1=T$32.8)   (Editing by Alex Richardson)   Keywords: AIG TAIWAN/   (faith.hung@reuters.com; +8862 2508 0815; Reuters Messaging:faith.hung.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
