A recent hearing before the domestic policy subcommittee of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee was riveting. In part, it was because of remarks by Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md.  The subject was whether the Treasury Department was using bailout funds to increase foreclosure prevention, as Congress intended.  It was Cummings' questioning of Neel Kashkari, the interim assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability, that had me hollering.  During the hearing, Cummings captured what has been done to U.S. taxpayers. 'Mr. Kashkari, in the neighborhood I grew up in, in the inner city of Baltimore, one of the things that you tried to do was make sure that you were not considered a chump,' Cummings said. 'And what 'chump' meant was that you didn't want people to see you as just somebody they could get over on.' Without a doubt, corporate America is playing us like chumps. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson and the folks he has assembled to try to get us out of the economic tempest are being played like chumps.  Exhibit A: American International Group.  AIG, the insurance giant, initially was saved from impending failure by an $85 billion loan. Then we hear AIG sponsored a lavish junket at a swank hotel after the infusion of government money -- our money.  Most recently, AIG said in its quarterly filing that it would allow employees to collect $503 million in deferred compensation. 'I'm just wondering how you feel about an AIG giving $503 million worth of bonuses out of one hand, and accepting $154 billion from hard-working taxpayers,' Cummings asked Kashkari.  But it's not just about AIG, Cummings said. More companies are lined up to get government handouts.  Kashkari explained AIG's compensation decision, although he said he was not defending the company's actions. He testified he was told by his staff that the money was going to be released as an incentive to retain certain AIG employees. 'We need them to keep working, so that they can sell off the assets and pay back the taxpayers,' Kashkari said. To which Cummings responded: 'We need them to keep working, but guess what? There are a whole lot of people that could replace them, because there are so many people losing their jobs.' There's no question we, Treasury and Kashkari are being chumped. And it's not just by AIG.  Originally, Paulson pleaded for the $700 billion bailout money to buy up troubled mortgage assets. But Paulson said Treasury realized this wasn't going to help fast enough, so it instead decided to pump money into banks and other financial institutions. However, we've learned that some of the bailout money can be used by companies to buy competitors.  Now Treasury wants to give some of the bailout funds to credit-card companies to help get credit flowing again.  Give money to companies that for years have been collecting double-digit interest rates on card purchases? That is definitely a chump move.
