(The Manila Times - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- SVTMF   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- THE holding firm of Henry Sy announced on Friday that it has secured the amount it raised from the sale of its San Miguel Corp. (SMC) shares.In a statement, SM Investments Corp. (SMIC) said it received about P27 billion from San Miguel Corp. Retirement Plan and crossed on Friday at the local bourse about 339.3-million shares or 11 percent of SMC that it once owned.The fresh capital will 'further boost' the group's liquidity after raising about $350 million in July from the sale of five-year bonds. The debt papers have a three-year put option with a fixed annual interest rate of 6.75 percent.SMIC's dollar positions are fully hedged, therefore it is not exposed to foreign exchange risks, the conglomerate, which is owns the SM chain of shopping malls, said.'[SMIC] is in a strong position to weather the global economic challenges. Beaing very liquid gives us the flexibility and the edge, not just to support our current businesses, but also to take advantage of extraordinary opportunities that may arise at times like this,' Jose Sio, the company's chief financial officer, said.Earlier, the SM group confirmed its interest in bidding for Philippine American Life and General Insurance Co. (Philamlife), a subsidiary of troubled American International Group (AIG). The US insurance giant's Philippine asset is estimated to be worth more than $1 billion.The SM group said it is confident it will meet its profit target of P14 billion this year or 13 percent more than a year ago despite the impending economic slowdown and the P1.3-billion losses that the group's banking arm, Banco de Oro Unibank (BDO), posted during the third quarter. BDO set aside provisions for the investments it made in the failed Lehman Brothers.At end-June, SMIC's consolidated balance sheet 'remained very strong and liquid' as it has a current ratio of 1.8, the company said. It also said its consolidated net debt to equity ratio is 30 percent, while its consolidated net debt to assets ratio stood at 18 percent.'These ratios will be further enhanced with the receipt of the payment for the San Miguel shares,' the disclosure read.To see more of The Manila Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.manilatimes.net. Copyright (c) 2008, The Manila Times, Philippines Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index
