 The real players are between 10-15 as far as the idea of the Patriots are concerned. And they'll be lucky to find any suitors. And despite the reality that BB is hated, he's probably one of a handful of coaches that knows exactly what he wants, and exactly how he'll get it.   It may involve Peppers, and although there's a Wilfork to Denver thing getting beaten to death right now, as far as Eye know the Pats aren't strapped for money, so it doesn't make too much sense.   Don't discount the impending CBA, today, though. My guess is that football can't work without a cap, but common sense dictates that I'm probably wrong (LOL)and the good teams might want to fleece guys in a contract year and embrace signing others to long term contracts. Along come the agents and this might be a long friggin day.   So put Wilfork back on the block?   "Hello Josh this is Vince."  "Hello. We need a nose tackle and we won't pony up for Raji. The Browns want him and they're being women about Quinn."  "Well I just want money, Coach McDaniels."  "We have that."  "Can you make it happen, Josh?"  "Mr. Belichick will have the final say on that. And we all suck his nuts. I do not want to give up the #12, but the #18 is fine, and he can work up from there to get what he thinks he might need."   "Sounds good. Looking forward to re-joining you in Denver."  "Me too. What does he need BTW?"  "No idea. The man is crazy."  "Yeah, crazy like a fox."  "Word."  And welcome to April 25th, 2009. Factor the pending collective bargaining agreement into this, and those with any insider knowledge may come out of today looking immediately stupid--but in the long term, maybe not so stupid. Trade up now and sign somebody you covet to five years and $25 million, or hold on to football's greats and end up paying 10 year, $200 million contracts? Um hello?  They'll reach an agreement, but it might not matter so much today. GMs and coaches are stroking the owners right now, and the almighty dollar actually matters. 
