       Quote (maple_owner33 &#064; Fri, Apr 24 2009, 10:54am)   Stealing real Life Money $$ from People is a Jailable Offense you stupid kid. You couldn't work for your money so you just figured you would steal it from a person that gave you his full trust,honesty,and fortitude. How could such a person like you exist, I am disgusted at how someone could enjoy doing such a thing. Stealing FG is one thing, stealing money is a totally different issue. If Kazuki wanted to he could easily press charges on you, he could get Njaguar to IP track you and locate your house call the local police and get you to jail you poor scumbag of a human being.. Its the SCUM like you that ruin this world and forums. They shouldn't have locked you, they should have banned you, anyways you could change all this by kindly sending back Kazuki     http://forums.d2jsp.org/user.php?i=591143  the 100$ back. Its the only way for people to have respect for you and for you to do the right choice as an Adult. When you start working will you steal from others for personal gain and greed. You should be ashamed at yourself for doing such a thing, your parents raised you better than this hopefully and if they found out what you did they would probably beat you with a stick. Anyways I just hope u learn to do the right thing and hopefully Karma bites you in the A$$. I wouldn't care if you died of a heart attack after reading this post.. people like you shouldn't even exist.  -Regards, Maple    P.S: If you try to talk to me about me being scam tagged read my fucking profile CBA talking to kids .     "Why I Was Locked :  my legal multi account my irl brother made with the permission of Njaguar had apparently scammed some1? he didn;t even send me fg or i send him fg..  apperently a 100g scam from my brother gets my 22k fg locked?  i woulda payed the dude 1000 g back if i knew i where to get locked for him scamming..  but wtf lifes a bitch ..she makes u work for what u get, lets you be an honest person and trader and then screws you in the ass when u least expect it.  "   QQ kid ... its a fucking website .. forum gold is pixels .. and if u spent money for pixels , your a fucking idiot . if not , you didnt lose shit . dont    it was your own fault u got locked .   This post was edited by StashTheJuggalo on Fri, Apr 24 2009, 04:06pm     
