       Oil prices dive under 40 dollars 3 hours ago LONDON (AFP)  Crude oil prices plunged below 40 dollars on Friday to their lowest levels in nearly four years, as worse-than-expected jobs data in the United States raised prospects of a severe fall in energy demand. In London, Brent North Sea crude slid to 39.50 dollars a barrel, the lowest level since the January 2005. Light sweet crude for January slid to 42.00 dollars in New York, also a near four-year low. Later on London&amp;#039;s InterContinental Exchange (ICE), Brent North Sea crude for delivery in January stood at 40.20 dollars, down 2.08 dollars from Thursday&amp;#039;s close. Light sweet crude for January was down 1.27 dollars at 42.40 dollars a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). The US Labor Department reported Friday that the US economy had lost 533,000 jobs in November, sending the unemployment rate to a 15-year high of 6.7 percent. The number of job losses was much higher than the 325,000 expected by private forecasters. US President George W. Bush said the data confirmed that the world&amp;#039;s biggest economy and largest energy-consuming nation was in recession. &amp;amp;quot;Today&amp;#039;s job data reflects the fact that our economy is in a recession,&amp;amp;quot; Bush said. &amp;amp;quot;My administration is committed to ensuring that our economy succeeds, and I know the incoming administration shares the same commitment.&amp;amp;quot; Oil prices have plunged by more than two thirds since reaching record high points above 147 dollars in July, pulled down by a widening global economic slowdown that weighs on demand. The tumble in prices is sharply reducing income for oil producing countries, including the world&amp;#039;s biggest Saudi Arabia and Russia. It is &amp;amp;quot;way, way premature&amp;amp;quot; to think that the market has hit bottom, said David Moore, a commodities strategist with the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. &amp;amp;quot;The focus is well and truly on the weakness in consumption, and that doesn&amp;#039;t seem likely to go away in the next 24 hours.&amp;amp;quot; The International Energy Agency on Friday lowered its projections for global oil demand in 2008-2013, foreseeing annual growth of 1.2 percent rather than 1.6 percent in the face of a worldwide economic slump. In an announcement ahead of the US jobs data, the IEA said demand for oil products should climb from 86.2 million barrels a day in 2008 to 91.3 million in 2013, altering forecasts it had made in July. Commenting on the US jobs data, Ian Shepherdson, chief US economist at High Frequency Economics, said: &amp;amp;quot;This is almost indescribably terrible.&amp;amp;quot; &amp;amp;quot;In the past six months the US has lost 1.55 million jobs, almost as many as were lost in the whole 2001 recession, which included 9/11 and the two months after. The pace of job losses is accelerating alarmingly.&amp;amp;quot; The US, eurozone, Japan and other economies are already in recession, and investors are worried about an increasingly marked decline in oil demand among the industrialised countries, and a slowdown in emerging countries such as China. OPEC president Chakib Khelil had on Wednesday said there was no &amp;amp;quot;floor&amp;amp;quot; for the price of oil. Oil prices began the week sharply lower after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided at a weekend meeting against cutting production, preferring to wait until December before reducing crude exports. The cartel&amp;#039;s secretary general, Abdalla Salem El-Badri, said on Monday that OPEC would decide on a &amp;amp;quot;major&amp;amp;quot; output cut next month if the oil market were deemed to be deteriorating. Saudi-led OPEC, which pumps 40 percent of the world&amp;#039;s crude, met in Cairo on Saturday to assess the state of the oil market but held off from making any decision on cutting production. Instead, energy ministers decided that any output move would be made when they next meet in Oran, Algeria on December 17. Oil prices had rocketed to record highs earlier this year on fears of supply disruptions amid rising political tensions in crude exporters Iran and Nigeria.   http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iDidnmcycE8s1_v2e-ovEGoYmz3w   
