                        NEW YORK  Wall Street set aside fears that the U.S. auto industry would soon collapse after the Treasury Department said it was prepared to funnel cash to the nation's Big Three automakers. Stocks pulled off sharp losses, and edged higher in late afternoon.      The Dow Jones industrial average was down more than 200 at the open, but all the major indicators began to regain ground when the White House and the Treasury announced they were considering diverting money from the Wall Street rescue fund to stave off bankruptcy filings among the U.S. carmakers.      &amp;quot;Things are looking a little bit brighter after they made those announcements,&amp;quot; said Anthony Conroy, managing director and head trader for BNY ConvergEx Group. &amp;quot;Anytime there's indecision, that indecision breeds volatility. And that's what we were seeing.&amp;quot;      Stocks fell sharply in the early going after a $14 billion rescue package for the automakers was derailed in the Senate late Thursday when the United Auto Workers refused to meet Republican demands for big wage cuts. Lawmakers have called on the Bush administration to use a portion of the $700 billion financial rescue to help the car companies.      General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC have said they could run out of cash within weeks without government help. Ford Motor Co., which would also be eligible for aid under the bill, has said it has enough cash to make it through next year.      &amp;quot;The market's been pretty resilient,&amp;quot; said Matt King, chief investment officer of Bell Investment Advisors, noting that Wall Street has at times since mid-November advanced even in the face of bad news. &amp;quot;The market's been holding firm and making some good gains. So to us that's a good sign.&amp;quot;      In late afternoon trading, the Dow rose 48.58, or 0.57 percent, to 8,613.67. The Dow tumbled 196 points Thursday as worries intensified that the auto bill would stall in the Senate.      The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index rose 3.05, or 0.35 percent, to 876.64, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 27.14, or 1.80 percent, to 1,535.02.      The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 15.78, or 3.50 percent, to 466.99.      Bond prices were mixed Friday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 2.58 percent from 2.63 percent late Thursday. The yield on the three-month T-bill was unchanged at 0.02 percent from late Thursday. The bill has been in great demand because of the safety it offers investors.      The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.      Light, sweet crude fell $1.40 to $46.58 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.      Friday's economic reports underscored investors' growing fear of a severe and prolonged recession.      The Labor Department said wholesale prices sank in November for the fourth straight month, raising deflation fears. The Producer Price Index, which tracks costs of goods before they reach consumers, fell a greater-than-expected 2.2 percent last month as prices for gasoline and other energy prices retreated, the department said. That followed a record 2.8 percent drop in October.      Businesses also slashed inventories in October by the largest amount in five years. The Commerce Department said businesses reduced what was on shelves and back lots by 0.6 percent in October, triple the 0.2 percent decline economists expected. It was the biggest cut in inventories since August 2003.      The reductions came as business sales fell by 3.5 percent in October. That topped the previous record drop of 2.4 percent, which occurred in September.      Wall Street was relieved by the prospects for the automakers. It was estimated that if one of the automakers declared bankruptcy as many as 3 million U.S. jobs could be lost next year.      GM fell 22 cents, or 5.3 percent, to $3.90 after falling 37 percent earlier in the session. Ford rose 10 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $3. Chrysler isn't publicly traded.       But even a potential lifeline for Detroit couldn't ease all of the concerns about job losses. Bank of America Corp. said late Thursday it expected to cut as many as 35,000 jobs over the next three years, including some from investment bank Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., which it agreed to buy in September. Bank of America fell 28 cents to $14.63.       AT&amp;T Inc., DuPont, Dow Chemical Co. and Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold Inc. have said in recent weeks that they will make staff reductions, and analysts expect other companies to make cuts.       Investors also grappled with further prospects of diminished confidence in Wall Street. Late Thursday, Wall Street veteran Bernard L. Madoff was arrested on a securities fraud charge. Madoff, who 18 years ago was chairman of the Nasdaq stock market, was accused of running a phony investment business that lost at least $50 billion and that he called a &amp;quot;giant Ponzi scheme,&amp;quot; prosecutors said.       &amp;quot;It's not a happy day when you see a $50 billion fraud,&amp;quot; said Ken Mayland, president of research firm ClearView Economics. &amp;quot;Things like that will just erode the public's confidence in the market.&amp;quot;       Markets overseas declined after the bailout bill failed. Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said European Union leaders have agreed on a $267 billion economic stimulus package to rescue their recession-hit economies. Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso also announced a new stimulus package to shore up his country's economy. The new package includes $111 billion in tax breaks and public financing and $144 billion to prop up financial markets.       Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 5.56 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 fell 2.47 percent, Germany's DAX index slid 2.18 percent, and France's CAC-40 declined 2.80 percent.       ___      
