Dear Consumer Action:  I disconnected my phone and called to cancel the account, because I was going to use a different type of service to save money. I was told the account could remain open in case I wanted to turn it on again.  The representative never said I'd be charged for suspending the account, and recently I got a bill that looks like a regular service bill. - W.G., Vineland  A spokesperson for the phone company said that it was a billing error that has been corrected, and that someone from the company has spoken to you to assure you it was an error.  We tried to reach you to verify that you are satisfied with the resolution, but were unable to get you on the phone. Please let us know if you have further problems.  It usually costs a small amount per month to keep a suspended phone line, but you apparently were billed as though the account were still active.  You haven't won  Dear Consumer Action:  I received a letter from Readers Digest saying I have won $81,976 in an End of the Year Sweepstakes. It came with a check for $976 from AIG Annuity Insurance Co. to cover any 'legal, insurance or processing fees you may encounter.' It tells me to call one of the company's agents to initiate the claims process and activate the check.  It seems too good to be true. Is it? - M.S., Absecon  It is a scam, and Reader's Digest is well aware of the problem.  If you did call the number given, someone on the other end of the line (probably somewhere in Canada) would try to convince you to cash the check and immediately wire most of the money to him or her, probably somewhere in Canada.  By the time you found out the check was fraudulent, the scammers would already the money ... which would come out of your bank account.  Here's the statement the real Reader's Digest has on its Web site: 'Beware of Fake Check Scams! Scam artists are preying on consumers and fraudulently using the names of trusted companies like Reader's Digest. Some scams mimic prize award notifications. Victims receive a phony check and are asked to return a portion of the winnings to the sender. 'A legitimate sweepstakes never asks an entrant or a winner to pay money. If someone says you've won a prize and asks for payment of any kind, contact the National Consumers League at 1701 K St. NW, Suite 1200, Washington, DC 20006 or FakeChecks.org. In these tough economic times, it's more important than ever to protect yourself against scams. Learn more at: That pretty much says it all.  Consumer Action will respond to each properly submitted letter about a problem or question, either in this column or by letter or phone. Letters must include copies - not originals - of all relevant documentation and a name, address and phone number at which you can be reached. Send letters to: Consumer Action, The Press, 11 Devins Lane, Pleasantville, NJ 08232
