 Julianne Malveaux  Julianne Malveaux is an economist and president of Bennett College for Women. She can be reached at presoffice@bennett.edu.    Commenetary...Manifestation of a dream?  (NNPA)Is the inauguration of President Barrack Obama the manifestation of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.s dream?  Dr. King said he had a dream that people would be judged by the content of their character, not the color of their skin. On Nov. 4, 2008, that date arrived. And from every corner of the country people are thronging to Washington, and coming together, to celebrate the triumph.  And the celebration is likely to continue past the inauguration on Jan. 20 as people bask in the warm glow of a new administration. We are celebrating at a time when Dr. Kings dream has become woefully imperiled. If we arent in a depression, we are close to one. An unemployment rate of 7.2 percent translates to 13.5 percent when their are part-timers who want full time work, and their are people who have dropped out of the labor force.  For African-Americans, the unemployment rate is 11.9 percent, but when labor market dropouts and would be full-timers are included, the number is closer to 20 percent. In the same speech where Dr. King said he had a dream, he said, We have come to the nations capitol to cash a check, and that check has been market insufficient funds.  Dr. King was not just dreaming, he was also working for economic justice. We cant lose sight of that as we celebrate our new president and speak of the manifestation of the dream.  We love to talk about the dream, not about the uncashed check. In these economic times, it is more important than ever to talk about the damage our economy has wrought on all Americans and especially on people of color. The check to be cashed was not a check that said lets make one man president.  The check was a check for all of us. The poor peoples campaign, Dr. Kings last great campaign, was about empowering people with low wages, not keeping the middle class in the middle class. How many times did you hear the words poor in the 2008 campaign? One in eight Americans is poor. One in four African-American. More than 40 percent of African-American children. Has the dream yet been manifest? Dr. King said, The curse of poverty is an abomination in any age. What will we do about the abomination?  Last month, food stamp applications rose by 14 percent. In Greensboro, N.C., they rose by 59 percent. Food stamp allocations cant cover these new applications for food stamps. But Bank of America was just granted $138 billion! People are hungry, and banks are getting bailed out. What will we do about this abomination?  With majorities in Congress and in the Senate, and with an overwhelming electoral victory, Barack Obama may have the means to deal with the abomination that is poverty. The Electoral College vote of 365-173 may suggest more strength than actually exists.  The popular vote suggests of 52 to 46 percent suggests less strength and may determine the length of the honeymoon President Obama will experience with legislators, especially those on the other side of the aisle.  Already, the same folks who passed a $700 billion bailout are resisting aspects of the $825 billion stimulus package. Yet the stimulus package, especially if it creates at least five million jobs, has the potential of getting money in the hands of the people, not just the bankers.  President Barack Obama used the word audacity in his second book, The Audacity of Hope. He may have channeled Dr. King, who also used the word in his Nobel Peace prize acceptance speech when he said, I have the audacity to believe that people everywhere can have three meals a day for their bodies, education and culture for their minds, and dignity, equality, and freedom for their spirits.  President Obama will manifest the dream if he is able to hold fast to it. It was a dream for social and economic justice, not a dream for banker bailouts. Our new president is a symbol of the dream. His work, all of our work, will provide the substance.  (Julianne Malveaux is an economist and president of Bennett College for Women. She can be reached at presbennett@bennett.edu.)
