When I was given the mandate to launch and head up ICICI Securities Markets business in the 90s, I felt like a new mother, caught between the trepidation and the thrill of having her first baby. Trepidation, because honestly, I came from a project finance background, and knew nothing about the securities business, had to work with people who were far more knowledgeable about the field than me, and still lead them and learn from them. Not an easy job when competition from the likes of established names like Grindlays, Citibank, Bank of America and DSP was breathing down our necks. Thrill, because this was the first time I was being given an entire business, complete with all the resources that I needed to make a success of it. I was the mother of this new baby, and it was up to me to script its destiny.  I stayed with ICICI Securities, or I-Sec as we fondly called it, for three years. It gave me the opportunity to work with many superbly talented people  each of them stars in their own right  and my challenge was to make sure they worked together, cohesively, as a team. One of the greatest gratifications is that many of them have now gone on to make huge successes of themselves and the businesses they run. To distinguish ourselves from the competition, we built a STAR proposition; i.e. Securities Trading and Research  a comprehensive offering that was unique in an industry that had thus far only focused on specific verticals. It went on to become the cornerstone of I-Secs success in the markets business  and the industry benchmark. By 1995-96, we had a business that was recognised as an innovator in the industry and a valuable contributor to the ICICI Group. And that was when it was time move on.  Leaving I-Sec was possibly one of the hardest thing I have ever had to do. It was a moment that tested my mettle  as a professional and as a person. To me, leaving it meant leaving behind a successful, thriving business with only the hope that the team I had built and the systems and structure that had been created would outlast me and grow onto to greater things. I felt like I was leaving my child. But I learned that though I left the organisation, the friends that I made and the relationships that I had built there would stay with me always. And the business would thrive, because we had set it up for success.  When I look back at it, I believe it was that event that shaped my career as a business builder. It gave me the courage to go on to other businesses, to create something out of nothing, and rest assured that if I created a sustainable business, it would make me and many others proud; like a child that wins a gold medal.  
