WASHINGTON -- The man picked to take over the U.S. Treasury may have underpaid his taxes but in the eyes of Congress, the economy is in too much trouble for Timothy Geithner to be cast aside.  After assailing Geithner over the issue this week, senators  including some from the rival Republican party  are speaking of President-elect Barack Obama's Treasury pick in more soothing tones.  As Washington Post commentator Dana Milbank wrote in a line echoed by other journalists, Put another way, the guy is too big to fail.  Behind the show of support is the dire condition of credit markets and the economy, and the Treasury secretary-designate's experience battling financial crises.  Geithner, 47, has played a pivotal role from his perch as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in a series of dramatic financial rescues.  From talking to my colleagues on the Republican side, and I haven't talked to all of them ... I have not found people who are going to vote against him based upon just the income tax issue, Sen. Charles Grassley, the top Republican on the Senate committee that would confirm him, told National Public Radio.  Few things upset Grassley more than a tax cheat, but he said there was bipartisan agreement on the Geithner's qualifications and the need for someone of his caliber at a time when we have all the economic problems we have.  The committee chairman, Democrat Max Baucus, voiced strong support for Geithner, saying he was an extremely competent man who made errors that do not rise to the level of disqualification.  Over the years Baucus has worked doggedly to police the tax code, badgering the Treasury to close the tax gap, an estimated US$345 billion difference between taxes legally owed but not paid.  Fires to Put Out  As head of the New York Fed, Geithner has worked closely with Henry Paulson, the man he would succeed, and with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke in engineering bank rescues and creating tools to unfreeze credit markets.  A Treasury official who will depart as Obama takes office on Tuesday said Geithner was uniquely qualified for the job.  That expertise could be needed sooner rather than later as market confidence in Bank of America and Citigroup disintegrates amid fears that credit losses may overwhelm their capital base in a worsening economy. We are back to a period of fear, said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills New York. The fear is that some of it will be so bad that it will result in a longer or prolonged recession.  Under such circumstances, it seems unlikely that senators will block Geithner in the name of taxpayer piety.  Geithner failed to fully pay Social Security and payroll taxes that were not automatically deducted from his paycheck when he worked at the International Monetary Fund from 2001-2003. When the errors were discovered, he paid US$42,702 in missed payments and interest to the Internal Revenue Service.  But tax mistakes are sensitive for someone tapped to head the Treasury, which oversees the IRS, and some lawmakers and conservatives skewered Geithner, saying that as a former Treasury and IMF official, he should have known better.  Write a Comment  Enter your comments - 1000 characters max  Type in image code  Receive China Post promos Respond to this email  
