Bank of America's top executive has opted to forgo company bonus for 2008 performance  The good news coming out of Bank of America's headquarters is that the chairman and chief executive has decided he shouldn't get a bonus for 2008.  The bad news is he apparently spent more than about 30 seconds making that decision.  But let's accentuate the positives first.  Kenneth Lewis, the bank's CEO, deserves praise for recommending that he and his top lieutenants should forgo bonus pay. After a year in which the banking giant's profits dove 68 percent in the third quarter and its share price also took a steep drop, it's difficult to see any justification for performance-based bonus pay for the bank brass.  In a memo to the board of directors, Lewis said it was 'only fair' that executives 'should now share in the pain.'  Agreed.  That said, though, a Wall Street Journal story said Lewis wrestled with the decision.  The story, citing people familiar with Lewis, said he didn't want to appear to be bowing to political pressure by forgoing bonuses.  Also, Lewis apparently felt extra pay was at least somewhat justified because the bank performed better than some of its competitors.  But in a victory for common sense, Lewis decided that a reward wasn't appropriate.  It's a move that other CEOs would be wise to follow.  Long before the financial meltdown of 2008, reports of executive compensation reaching eight and even nine figures were prompting outcry from the American public. Lewis, incidentally, wasn't exactly struggling heading into 2008. He received $20.4 million in compensation during 2007, so the guess here is that he'll probably be able to put food on the table even without a year-end bonus for '08.  But the point here isn't to pick on Lewis.  It's to hold him up as an example to other corporate leaders, who need to adopt more frugal and conservative business practices.  A new mindset is long overdue.  Considering that some of the most lavishly paid CEOs led companies whose unsound business practices helped send the economy into a tailspin, consumers' tolerance for corporate excess has reached an end.  With thousands of Americans out of a job, or working for less pay and fewer benefits as a result of the recession, huge salaries and luxurious perks for executives of struggling companies are unacceptable.  Should execs help themselves to bonuses after the worst economic year since the Depression?  It's a no-brainer.  The answer is no.  Reader comments are the sole responsibility of the person posting them. You agree not to post comments that are off topic, defamatory, obscene, abusive, threatening or an invasion of privacy. Click here for our full user agreement.  You can rate each comment by clicking the  or  buttons.  To report an inappropriate comment, click the .  Please note that comment post times are in Eastern time.  
