(The Charlotte Observer - McClatchy-Tribune Information Services via COMTEX) -- WB   Quote   Chart   News   PowerRating -- Morgan Stanley &amp;amp; Co. has hired Wachovia Corp.'s former general bank head, Ben Jenkins, as the New York investment bank looks to build its retail banking operations, according to sources familiar with the situation.  Details about Jenkins' new role weren't available this evening. Jenkins and Morgan Stanley representatives could not be reached for comment.  Jenkins, Wachovia's former vice chairman, becomes the latest Wachovia executive to join Morgan Stanley. In November, the firm named Cece Sutton head of its retail banking operations. Former Wachovia colleague Jon Witter is her chief operating officer.  Earlier today, Morgan Stanley confirmed former Wachovia executive Will Howle also will hold a senior position in the firm's retail banking operation. As part of Wells Fargo's takeover of Wachovia, Howle had been named chief operating officer for the San Francisco bank's eastern retail banking region.  The hiring of Sutton and Witter in November led to speculation that Morgan Stanley could base its retail banking operation in Charlotte. Lately, there's been talk in the real estate community that the firm is scouting the city for office space. Morgan Stanley spokeswoman Christy Pollak declined to comment.  After converting to a bank holding company last year, Morgan Stanley is looking to add deposits because they are a more dependable way to finance operations. By basing operations in Charlotte, the firm could tap talent shed by Wells Fargo and Bank of America, which are both looking to cut costs after big deals.  Some experts, however, have said Morgan Stanley might buy another bank to build deposits and likely would base its operations in that bank's hometown.  To see more of The Charlotte Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to http://www.charlotteobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Charlotte Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.  More News:  Market Updates   Stock Alerts   All Trading News   Stock Index  
