Bankers who helped to cause the global economic crisis should not be shunned but recruited to the quest for a solution, Klaus Schwab, the head of the World Economic Forum, has said. The message from Davos is that we must learn to love our bankers again.   There are many responses to this, not all of them printable. But first of all, it needs to be said that the vast majority of senior bankers are neither being shunned nor excluded. Indeed, many have never been busier or more enthusiastically embraced by ministers and officials desperate for help in a crisis that they struggle to understand.   For every Sir Fred Goodwin, the sacked and excoriated former chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, there is a John Varley or an Eric Daniels, the chiefs respectively of Barclays and Lloyds, both very much still in their jobs.   For every sacrificial lamb such as Andy Hornby the former CEO of HBOS, dumped with no pay-off there are others intricately connected to the banking collapse who continue to climb the slippery pole. For instance, Michael Queen, a non-executive director of Northern Rock in the 20-year build-up to its implosion, , Britain's blue chip private equity group. Or Alan Rubenstein, the former managing director of Lehman Brothers who was named on Thursday as the new chief executive of the UK Pension Protection Fund, a government quango that bails out under-funded schemes whose sponsors go bankrupt.   Bankers figure heavily in the very institutions set up to sort out the mess. They dominate the teams of advisers brought in to counsel the Treasury. Bankers are as ubiquitous as ever.   Certainly the Treasury needs good advice on the complex toxic assets it is preparing to guarantee; it needs to understand the culture and forces within banks that led to this catastrophe. Bankers competent, honest and plain-speaking ones can help. Those who understand how greed, inertia or timidity led to the credit crunch can be invaluable in shaping laws and institutions to prevent a repeat of it.   But for every banker who genuinely repenteth, there are dozens who pay lip service to the idea of reform, but quietly want to go back to the good old days as quickly as possible.   The breathtaking decision by John Thain, then chief executive of Merrill Lynch, to approve the rushed payment of $4 billion of bonuses to staff in December, even as its new parent Bank of America was preparing to tap US taxpayers for a $20 billion bailout, suggests that at least some senior bankers just don't get it.   They still cling to the notion that the old regime worked, that the bafflingly complex products they created were wanted, that the stress-testing they put their numbers through was rigorous, that the seven-digit bonuses they were paid were deserved, that they were brought down by bad luck only.   Bankers in truth have been revealed as no more talented than the rest of us, except in lining their own pockets. But the myth of the dazzlingly brilliant banker, even now, persists.   And if there is one man responsible for that, it is Mr Schwab, whose exclusive Alpine gatherings have been stroking their egos and puffing up their reputations for years. 
