A day after former Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Chief Executive John Thain issued a memo explaining the companys fourth-quarter losses and bonus payments, the New York attorney general wants more information.  Attorney General Andrew Cuomos office issued subpoenas Tuesday seeking the testimony of Thain, as well as the testimony of Bank of America Corp. Chief Administrative Officer J. Steele Alphin. These subpoenas are part of an ongoing inquiry into billions of dollars in bonuses paid by Merrill Lynch late last year just days before Merrill was taken over by Bank of America, said a statement from Cuomos office. The fact that Merrill Lynch appears to have moved up the timetable to pay bonuses before its merger with Bank of America is troubling to say the least and warrants further investigation, said Cuomos office. With that in mind, I am also pleased to announce that our ongoing inquiry into executive compensation practices at TARP funded institutions, including this matter, will be conducted cooperatively and in coordination with the TARP Special Inspector General Neil Barofsky. Our offices have already begun working together and I look forward to a continuing and productive working relationship with the Special Inspector General. Our cooperative efforts set a perfect example for how federal and state authorities should be working together on behalf of taxpayers, read the statement.  In a CNBC interview Monday afternoon, Thain said he was surprised that he was let go by Bank of America CEO Kenneth Lewis last week, and he reiterated that the big fourth-quarter losses at Merrill were no surprise to BofA.  Thain said he thought he could help with the merger integration and that the results had been very good leading up to his ouster. Nevertheless, when asked if he regretted selling the firm to BofA, Thain responded that he did not regret the deal for one moment.' BofA bought Merrill on Jan. 1 for $29.1 billion, including $8.6 billion in preferred stock. On Jan. 16, BofA disclosed that Merrill lost $15.3 billion during the quarter.  In a farewell memo distributed Monday to employees and published online by the Wall Street Journal , Thain said, The losses in the fourth quarter ... were very large and unfortunate. However, they were incurred almost entirely on legacy positions and were due to market movements. We were completely transparent with Bank of America. They learned about these losses when we did.' Thain said BofA also worked with Merrills board to approve bonuses the company paid in December. Asked on CNBC if the $4 billion in bonuses paid out to Merrill employees were appropriate, Thain said, Its a fair question. And the answer is you have to believe that theres value in the franchise. If you dont pay your best people, you will destroy your franchise. A BofA spokesman did not respond to a request for comment. Regarding Merrills bonus payments, which The Financial Times valued at $3 billion to $4 billion, Thain wrote in the memo: Our 2008 discretionary bonus pool was 41 percent lower than 2007. The size of the pool, its composition, and the timing of payments for both the cash and stock were all determined together with Bank of America and approved by our management development and compensation committee and our board. He added: The total bonus pool was also substantially less than the amount allowed under our merger agreement with BofA. With BofAs purchase of Merrill, Thain became president of the combined companies global banking, securities and wealth-management operations. On Thursday, Lewis demanded that he resign. Later that day, BofA named Brian Moynihan to succeed him. Moynihan had been general counsel at Charlotte-based BofA (NYSE:BAC). He will continue in that role until a successor is named. Thains memo also addresses a $1.2 million renovation of his office and conference rooms at Merrill last year. He says he will reimburse the company for those costs. The expenses were incurred over a year ago in a very different environment, the memo states. Nonetheless, they were a mistake in the light of the world we live in today. On CNBC, Thain said the office was unusable in its previous condition but did not specify why.
