Charlotte builder Hays Castleman has cut the price several times on this SouthPark-area house his company finished last summer. An interested buyer can't close because he's unable to sell his house in New York. DIEDRA LAIRD dlaird@charlotteobserver.com  Chris Corl's custom-home company started these SouthPark-area houses early last year. Since then, the Charlotte-area market has slowed amid a national recession. A lot of people are calling, and a potential buyer is visiting Saturday, Corl said, but people are cautious about these big decisions right now. DIEDRA LAIRD dlaird@charlotteobserver.com  Charlotte-area home construction tumbled even harder last month than the grim drops reported Thursday for builders nationwide and finished 2008 at the lowest level in years.  In Mecklenburg County, builders bought permits for just 86 single-family houses last month, the second consecutive month of 70 percent declines from the same month a year earlier. That was well off the 500-plus December levels prior to this downturn, and the lowest of any December since at least 1995, according to Observer analysis of county data.  For the year, Mecklenburg house permits were down 54 percent, to 2,734, compared with 2007.  For the eight-county area, all residential permits were down 63 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the last three months of 2007, according to Newton Graham Consultants, which uses public data compiled by a Rocky Mount firm.  Nationwide, residential builders bought 49 percent fewer permits last month, marking a record low. The pace of homebuilding nationwide fell to the lowest level since the government began compiling the records in 1959.  Homebuilding, a key economic driver, has shriveled amid a deepening recession as anxiety rises over job losses, sinking stocks and falling home values. The Charlotte market, which held up longer than many, has been further wounded by the sale of Wachovia and mounting problems at its behemoth Bank of America. Both banks are slashing jobs. Housing is driven by growth in the economy, said Adam York, a Wachovia economist. We expect the economy to be weak for sometime locally and nationally, so there's little incentive to start building. That's had homebuilders pushing Congress to help boost sales. But York said, The economy is in too bad of shape for a simple tax credit or a lower mortgage rate to overcome all the downside we're seeing in the economy. A decimated homebuilding industry is bad news for jobs at many levels. Experts estimate that building 100 single-family homes puts 284 people to work, including carpenters, lawyers, appliance sales people and convenience store employees selling soda and cigarettes to construction workers.  Uptown commercial and condo building has so far offset many of the job losses in home construction. For the Charlotte area, construction employment was down 5 percent in November, the most recent number available, compared with a year earlier. Nationwide, last year ended with 8 percent fewer construction jobs than 2007.  There's no way to track the loss of construction-dependent jobs.  Charing Cross Partners, a small custom homebuilder in Charlotte, had four employees including a marketing person last year. They're all gone, said Hays Castleman, one of two partners in the firm. The company is sitting on lots for building in the primo SouthPark area, waiting for a market rebound.  The partners have cut more than 20 percent off the price of a SouthPark-area house finished months ago, and it's still sitting. One would-be buyer can't seal a deal because he can't sell his house in New York. There's still people interested but they're scared to pull the trigger, Castleman said. Builders are gripped in a downward spiral.  Weak sales and rising foreclosures mean a glut of houses on the market. Tighter consumer lending means fewer people can buy. Those who have good credit are reluctant to buy because of job uncertainty and the potential for further home price declines. Lenders, staggered by mounting real estate loan losses, are loathe to make construction loans. That means builders have to shell out more for interest rates and put more of their own money in projects.   And buyers, knowing builders have houses to unload, want fire sale prices. A lot of buyers have turned into somewhat of a vulture, said Jake Kent, president of K2C Real Estate Solutions in Charlotte. We've had houses where we reduced 15 percent, and we still don't get a buyer. One problem he and others are finding is that they can't get loans to build spec houses. But buyers, surrounded by choices, don't want to wait. Buyers want to come in, see it, love it, live in it, Kent said. Chris Corl of Carolina Construction Group of Charlotte is hopeful the construction slowdown will give sales a chance to catch up with what's available. His inventory includes two huge, partially built SouthPark area houses priced at more than $2 million each. He started both early last year. I didn't think the market would go down any further, but I'm encouraged by a new president, he said. Eventually the buyers and investors will come back. Until then, however, he said We aren't starting new stuff. No wonder, a national index of builder confidence is at record single-digit low this month. I think now, we just all try to get rid of what we have and wait, Castleman said. . @Nyx.CommentBody@  Disclaimer  The Charlotte Observer is pleased to be able to offer its users the opportunity to make comments and hold conversations online. However, the interactive nature of the internet makes it impracticable for our staff to monitor each and every posting.  Since charlotteobserver.com does not control user submitted statements, we cannot promise that readers will not occasionally find offensive or inaccurate comments posted on our website. In addition, we remind anyone interested in making an online comment that responsibility for statements posted lies with the person submitting the comment, not The Charlotte Observer.   If you find a comment offensive, clicking on the exclamation icon will flag the comment for review by the administrators, we are counting on the good judgment of all our readers to help us. 
