TORONTO - North American stock markets are poised for another volatile week with the combination of low expectations for fourth-quarter earnings and a possible Obama-rally as the new president of the United States takes office.  Canadian investors will also be looking for further interest rate relief from the Bank of Canada on Tuesday, the same day president-elect Barrack Obama officially takes office.  'I think the Obama rally is probably going to happen,' said Adrian Mastracci, portfolio manager at KCM Wealth Management in Vancouver.  'There's the party atmosphere, the excitement, the new guy saying the right things, putting the team in place - I can see people saying this is going to be different.'  The hope is that a massive new round of government stimulus will spark the start of a recovery later in the year.  The mammoth U.S. spending package is pegged at US$825 billion but could reach US$1 trillion by the time Congress sends it to the White House to be signed into law.  Late last week, the Senate approved giving Obama access to the second half of last fall's US$700 billion financial industry bailout.  But it appears that the economic recovery, whenever it comes, may not be robust or as soon as many have anticipate.  Patricia Croft, chief economist RBC Global Asset Management, said the U.S. is throwing everything at its economic problems, 'hoping that something will stick.'  'You have to believe something will stick, but the contours of this recession are still unknown, as are the date and timing of the recovery,' said Croft, adding that a recovery is when gross domestic product stops falling.  'So maybe third-quarter growth is zero, fourth quarter 0.5 - that's not going to feel like a recovery for the average citizen and is not going to do a lot to boost corporate profits either,' Croft said.  The extent of the economic woes is being revealed in fourth-quarter earnings, which continued to trickle out last week.  For example, Intel Corp.'s fourth-quarter profit plunged 90 per cent to US$234 million while sales slumped 23 per cent, hurt by poor PC sales that have crimped demand for microprocessors.  Citigroup Inc. (NYSE: C) reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $8.29 billion, while Bank of America Corp. (NYSE:BAC) said it lost US$2.39 billion, hours after getting a multibillion-dollar lifeline from the government.  Bank of America will also receive guarantees to cover up to $118 billion in losses on loans and securities as it incorporates recently acquired Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. into its operations.  'So you bail out Bank of America and everybody says 'Thank goodness' and we dodge that bullet but for now anyway, ignoring the longer-term implications of what's happening,' said Croft.  'But perhaps that's the right thing to do. The key thing now is to try and gauge the depth and duration of the downturn, to try and have some optimism about recovery so when we can dodge bullets like Bank of America, then markets can rally.'  The Toronto market finished last week down almost two per cent, while New York's Dow Jones industrials gave back 3.7 per cent as worries increased about the health of the financial sector.  Investors will be wading through another slew of earnings reports this week, mainly from the U.S.  The pace of Canadian earnings will pick up next week and are expected to be equally dismal.  Croft said stocks on the Toronto Stock Exchange were down 23 per cent in one quarter.  'So you have to believe that maybe there's a little more realism out there about earnings,' she said.  Suncor Inc. (TSX:SU) is the only major corporation reporting next week.  Its bottom line will be impacted by oil prices that stood at almost US$100 at the start of the fourth quarter and fell sharply from then on.  'At $35, it's hard to make the case these companies are going to make a lot of money,' said Croft.  Meanwhile, the Bank of Canada is widely expected to cut its key rate half a point to one per cent on Tuesday, following a cut of three quarters of a point in early December.  Croft believes the central bank will then hold the line on rates for awhile.  'I don't think we need to go a lot lower - we have a weaker Canadian dollar and our credit markets are not as dysfunctional as in the U.S.,' Croft said.  'We're probably going to get at least $30 billion in stimulus from Ottawa on the 27th. We could go lower if the recession ends up being as horrific as the U.S., but that's not my expectation right now.'  
