NEW YORK (Reuters) - A measure of Citigroup's capital strength is at levels that some analysts view as dangerously low, implying the bank may need to raise capital soon, the latest blow for the globe-spanning institution which is reeling from the credit crisis.  Selling common equity to raise capital is not an option now because there are few buyers for bank stocks. That leaves Citigroup with few other options, apart from selling assets when valuations are broadly depressed.  If buyers for assets do not materialise, Citi could be driven closer to a complete takeover by the U.S. government, which has already injected some $45 billion (30.5 billion pounds) of capital into what was once the world's largest bank, analysts said. 'Citi has to move aggressively, because it's the wrong time of the credit cycle for its capital to be so low,' said James Ellman, president of financial services hedge fund Seacliff Capital.  At issue is a measure of capital known as the tangible common equity ratio, or the ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets. The measure indicates the extent to which a bank can meet its obligations as its assets shrink in value.  Citigroup's tangible common equity ratio is 1.5 percent, which by most standards is quite low. For example, Bank of America Corp reported a fourth-quarter ratio of 2.6 percent on Friday for itself and Merrill Lynch combined.  Analysts disagree about the appropriate level for this ratio, with some arguing it should be as high as 5 percent or even 7 percent.  But investors are watching this measure carefully, because it is the harshest indication of capital, stripping out assets that may not have real value in difficult times.  Rating agencies are monitoring it, too. Moody's Investors Service said on Friday it may cut Citigroup's debt ratings in part because of the bank's weak tangible common ratios.  Citigroup's low share price -- $3.50 on Friday -- reflect the perception of a significant risk of having to raise capital in a fashion that hurts shareholders, analysts said. To be sure, Citigroup's condition may not be as bad as it appears. Adjusting the calculation to account for mortgage servicing rights, an asset very likely to have real value, lifts the ratio to 1.8 percent.  If capital from the bank's sale of a stake in Smith Barney plus expected common equity from mandatory convertible securities are added back, the ratio rises to 2.55 percent, or 0.2 percentage points higher than in the third quarter.  When asked on an analyst conference call, Chief Financial Officer Gary Crittenden said the bank could raise capital through deals similar to the Smith Barney transaction announced this week.  In that deal, Citigroup sold a partial stake in the business to Morgan Stanley, boosting capital while still keeping much of the business' revenue. And the bank's bad assets will mature over time, reducing their risk to the balance sheet. 'So we think we have got a very strong capital base today,' Crittenden said. Some analysts question whether the tangible common equity ratio is the best way to assess capital strength at all, given that it ignores assets that could have real value, such as intangibles linked to credit card customer relationships. 'Why take those assets out of your calculations? People look at this ratio because it makes things look bad,' said Charles Peabody, a veteran banking analyst at Portales Partners who grew bullish on the sector last year.  But some argue that if things look bad, it's because they are. Citigroup lost $8.3 billion in the fourth quarter and recorded more than $28 billion of write-downs and credit losses. At that rate, it could end up struggling to raise capital to get back to levels that are probably too low to begin with. 'It's going to be tough. There are not a lot of buyers for assets now, and you can't sell common shares,' said Blake Howells, director of research at Becker Capital Management in Portland, Oregon, which does not own Citi shares. 'They can try to earn their way out, but it's not clear if the markets will be patient enough for that,' Howells added.
