TOKYO (Reuters) - Citigroup said on Monday it is still committed to its Japanese brokerage and asset management units, denying media reports that the U.S. bank is actively looking to unload a major part of its Japanese business. Citigroup, which reported an $8.3 billion quarterly loss on Friday, said it plans to split into two units and shed troubled assets.  RBS to unveil up to $37 billion of losses: report  LONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland will unveil up to 25 billion pounds ($37.30 billion) of losses for 2008 on Monday due to bad debts and writing off goodwill on its acquisition of ABN AMRO, a British newspaper said on Monday. RBS will say it incurred about 7 billion pounds of losses in 2008 and that it is taking a goodwill writedown of between 15 billion and 20 billion pounds, The Daily Telegraph reported, calling it the 'biggest loss in UK history.'  UK to unveil second bank rescue  LONDON (Reuters) - Britain is set to announce its second bank rescue plan on Monday and the incoming U.S. administration said it will make its bailout funds work harder to get credit flowing again to cash-starved consumers and companies. The global credit crisis that has pushed the world's major economies into recession and top banks and manufacturers deep into the red is also claiming political casualties with reports out of Seoul that several economic ministers will get the sack.  Satyam to appoint bankers to find buyer: report  MUMBAI (Reuters) - The new board of fraud-hit Satyam Computer Services Ltd is looking to appoint up to three investment banks to explore the possibility of finding a buyer for the Indian outsourcer, the Economic Times reported on Monday. It said Goldman Sachs , JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank were under consideration and a final decision is likely this week, the newspaper said, citing unnamed people familiar with the development.  Investors bank on hefty rate cut  TORONTO (Reuters) - Investors are counting on the Bank of Canada to deliver a hefty 50 basis point interest rate cut on Tuesday, with anything less likely to knock the country's already fragile stock market lower, analysts say. A minority of market players are holding out hope the central bank will cut rates even further, a move that would likely spur gains in cyclical energy, materials and consumer stocks, said Paul Taylor, chief investment officer at BMO Harris Investment Management Inc.  U.S. to lend $1.5 billion to Chrysler Financial  WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Treasury on Friday agreed to lend Chrysler LLC's finance arm $1.5 billion for five years to fund new car loans and boost sales for the sputtering Detroit automaker. Chrysler Financial, the finance arm of the No. 3 U.S. automaker, responded by immediately rolling out a zero percent financing offer on a range of Chrysler vehicles.  Asia holiday sales test depth of economic woes  SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Shopping is a national obsession in Singapore, yet this Lunar New Year retailers are struggling to get the city's usually insatiable shoppers to part with their cash as a cloud of economic gloom hangs over Asia. 'Even though there's a 50 percent sale on here, look at the sales counter, there's no one queuing. That's not normal,' said Mrs Them, a 47-year-old house wife, browsing through a department store at the city's renowned Orchard Road shopping district.  Obama to push bankers to resume lending  WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President-elect Barack Obama will push bankers to resume lending to businesses and consumers to help put the ailing economy back on track, but things will get worse before they get better, his top aides said Sunday. 'I think he is going to have a strong message for the bankers,' said David Axelrod, a top Obama adviser. 'We want to see credit flowing again. We don't want them to sit on any money that they get from taxpayers.'  TSX ends higher after volatile session  TORONTO (Reuters) - Toronto's key stock index finished higher on Friday after a seesaw session in which the financial sector was pressured by heightened concern about the health of the U.S. banking sector. The heavyweight financial sector started the session with a quick rally, bolstered by the news that Bank of America will receive a bailout from the U.S. government.  Britain to launch second bank rescue plan to boost lending  LONDON (Reuters) - Britain will throw its banks another multi-billion pound lifeline on Monday by allowing them to insure against steep losses and guaranteeing their debt to stop the credit crunch pushing the economy into a deep slump. Sources close to the talks between the Treasury and bankers told Reuters the second bank rescue package in four months would also see the government boost its stake in Royal Bank of Scotland .   Reuters Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Reproduction or redistribution of Reuters content, including framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.  
