,  WFC (Cramer's Pick) ,  C ,  JPM  Hard to imagine a lower bar to this speech. Perhaps Dow 7350. I know it is difficult to relate this speech to the market, but as I would have said at my old hedge fund, 'Fabulous job by Barack Obama, but what does it have to do with the price of Citigroup(C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) or the dividend of Wells Fargo(WFC Quote - Cramer on WFC - Stock Picks)?'  More on Investing  Market Activity  Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  Deutsche Bank AG ordinary shares  DB  I do hope we are in the winter of our hardship. I just fear the fall. I do think that we will get out of this, but it doesn't' mean you buy on it.  It does mean that we could solve the banking 'problem,' but it doesn't mean we can save the banks' dividends.  However, there is one real good piece of news: He addressed the darned thing. He did not talk in the double-talk of the previous administration. He did not dodge things. He didn't give us the 'don't worry about it' or implied that we don't even need to solve it, or it will simply get there with the help of the market.  I say terrific. The second half will be better because of this man.  The first half? The fall turns into the winter. Then the winter turns into spring.  Feels like September to me.  At the time of publication, Cramer had no positions in stocks mentioned.  Know What You Own: Other major financial stocks include JPMorgan Chase(JPM Quote - Cramer on JPM - Stock Picks), US Bancorp(USB Quote - Cramer on USB - Stock Picks), Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks), Deutsche Bank(DB Quote - Cramer on DB - Stock Picks), Morgan Stanley(MS Quote - Cramer on MS - Stock Picks) and Goldman Sachs(GS Quote - Cramer on GS - Stock Picks).  Jim Cramer is co-founder and chairman of TheStreet.com. He contributes daily market commentary for TheStreet.com's sites and serves as an adviser to the company's CEO. Outside contributing columnists for TheStreet.com and RealMoney.com, including Cramer, may, from time to time, write about stocks in which they have a position. In such cases, appropriate disclosure is made. To see his personal portfolio and find out what trades Cramer will make before he makes them, sign up for Action Alerts PLUS. Watch Cramer on 'Mad Money' weeknights on CNBC. To order Cramer's newest book -- 'Jim Cramer's Stay Mad for Life: Get Rich, Stay Rich (Make Your Kids Even Richer),' click here. Click here to order 'Mad Money: Watch TV, Get Rich,' click here to order 'Real Money: Sane Investing in an Insane World,' click here to get 'You Got Screwed!' and click here for Cramer's autobiography, 'Confessions of a Street Addict.' While he cannot provide personalized investment advice or recommendations, he appreciates your feedback and invites you to send comments by clicking here.  TheStreet.com has a revenue-sharing relationship with Amazon.com under which it receives a portion of the revenue from Amazon.com purchases by customers directed there from TheStreet.com.  
