Banks shares slid again on Thursday, a day after Moody's Investors Service said it might downgrade its ratings of Wells Fargo &amp; Co and Bank of America Corp because of heightened concerns over future loan losses.  Wells Fargo shares tumbled nearly 18 per cent, while Bank of America shares fell more than 9 per cent.  Moody's also cited concerns about the outlook for JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co., which is considered one of the strongest banks in the industry.  Its shares dropped more than 10 per cent.  The ratings agency said it could cut BofA's investment-grade A1 senior debt rating after reviewing the effect of loan losses on the bank. Further loan-loss provisions could also weigh on the bank, Moody's said.  Nearly all banks have been forced to drastically increase their loan-loss provisions as more customers fall behind on paying off loans.  What started as primarily a problem with mortgages given to risky borrowers has expanded into nearly every loan category as the economy has worsened.  Shares of Bank of America fell 34 cents, or 9.5 per cent, to $3.25 in early afternoon trading.  Moody's also said it was reviewing the long-term ratings of Wells Fargo.  The bank currently carries an investment-grade Aa3 senior debt rating, and has been considered one of the stronger banks amid the credit crisis.  Moody's is also reviewing the effects of potential loan losses on Wells Fargo's financial strength. Moody's noted that Wells Fargo's ability to make and retain money could be hindered over the next two years because it could face additional loan losses beyond those it already took in connection with its purchase of Wachovia Corp.  Shares of Wells Fargo fell $1.71, or 17.7 per cent, to $7.95.  JPMorgan saw its outlook lowered by Moody's to negative from stable. Its shares fell $1.82, or 9.4 per cent, to $17.48.  New York-based Citigroup also continued its plunge, falling as low as 97 cents.  Shares fell 14 cents, or 12 per cent, to 99 cents in afternoon trading.  Citi has been among the hardest hit by the ongoing financial crisis. Last week, the government restructured its support for the bank, increasing its stake to more than 30 per cent.  Elsewhere among banks, shares of US Bancorp, which said Wednesday it would slash its dividend, fell $1.64, or 14.9 per cent, to $9.37.  Shares of Regions Financial Corp. fell 46 cents, or 13.1 per cent, to $3.06.  
