Investors trade half-heartedly with little reaction to data  Market update  Data: MSN Money and ComStock  Most popular   Most viewed   Top rated   Most e-mailed  Economy in Turmoil  Congress played a major role in the financial mess made by insurance giant AIG  and big taxpayer-funded bonuses now being paid to the companys executives.  New home construction logs unexpected gain  FirstPerson Phone:1-888-417-8737  Share your story of how you've begun to deal with being laid off.  NEW YORK - Wall Street fluctuated in a narrow range Tuesday as a mix of economic and corporate news made for an indecisive session.  Better-than-expected reports on housing and inflation were offset by news of a dividend cut at Alcoa Inc. and layoffs at Nokia Corp.  The Commerce Department said new home construction rose unexpectedly to an annual rate of 583,000 in February from a revised 477,000 in January. Economists expected construction to drop to a pace of around 450,000 units, according to Thomson Reuters.  Building permit applications, a key measure of future activity, also rose. Applications increased 3 percent to an annual rate of 547,000. Economists were expecting permit applications to fall to a rate of 500,000.  Tim Courtney, the chief investment officer at Burns Advisory Group, said the housing report was encouraging and could be part of an initial recovery in the housing market.  'We could be in the very early stages of some kind of normalization' in housing, he said. A housing recovery is widely seen as a key to helping end the recession.  Separately, the Labor Department said wholesale prices rose 0.1 percent in February after rising 0.8 percent in January. Economists predicted the producer price index would rise 0.4 percent during the month. The government said core inflation, which excludes energy and food, edged up 0.2 percent in February after rising 0.4 percent in January.  Alcoa became the latest Dow Jones industrial company to lower its dividend to conserve cash. The aluminum maker said after the market closed Monday it was cutting its quarterly dividend 82 percent to 3 cents. It also said it plans to sell stock and debt to help reduce annual costs by more than $2.4 billion.  Shares of Alcoa fell 64 cents, or 10.5 percent, to $5.48.  Nokia, the world's top mobile phone maker, said it will lay off 1,700 people worldwide to cut costs. Nokia fell 21 cents to $11.14. The mobile phone market has been suffering as consumers spend less during the recession.  Meanwhile, bond prices mostly rose. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves opposite its price, fell to 2.92 percent from 2.96 percent late Monday. The yield on the three-month T-bill, considered one of the safest investments, was flat at 0.23 percent compared with late Monday.  Click for related content  New home construction logs unexpected gain  The dollar mostly rose against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.  Oil prices rose 46 cents to $47.81 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock jumped 3.2 percent. In afternoon trading, Britain's FTSE 100 fell 1.6 percent, Germany's DAX index declined 2 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 2 percent.  MORE FROM STOCKS &amp; ECONOMY  Stocks &amp; economy Section Front   New home construction logs unexpected gain  Obama touts budget as 'economic blueprint'    Add Stocks &amp; economy headlines to your news reader:
