U.S. stocks declined Monday morning, extending a global selloff, amid continuing concern about the economy and the health of major financial institutions. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dipped below the 7,000 mark for the first time since Oct. 28, 1997, in early trade and was recently down about 108 points at about 6,955. The S&amp;P 500 was down by 1.6% amid a 3.5% slide in its financial sector, but losses were broad, with most sectors seeing declines of 2% or more. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.1%. A series of developments were weighing on investor sentiment. British lender HSBC Holdings said it planned a massive $18 billion capital raising and that it would pull back from some U.S. lending. Concern about a financial crisis in Eastern Europe continued to simmer. And legendary investor Warren Buffett said that the economy would be in 'shambles' this year. The declines followed losses for stock investors in Asia, where the Nikkei 225 Index dropped 3.8% in Tokyo, and in Europe, where the FTSE 100 was down by nearly 4% in recent trading. The Dow dropped 119 points on Friday, leaving the stock measure with its worst February decline in percentage terms since 1933. Buffett, in his annual letter to shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway released on Saturday, reported that his company saw its worst year since he took over in 1965. He also said that he didn't expect the economy to improve anytime soon, though he expect better times in the longer run. HSBC shares were down more than 20% in U.S. trading after the bank reported a deep loss and said it plans to raise $18 billion through a rights issue. HSBC's moves triggered yet another round of selling in the U.S. financial sector. Bank of America shares dropped nearly 10% and Wells Fargo was down 8%. American International Group shares soared more than 14%, though its revised government rescue package did little to ease unease about the broader financial sector. Nervous investors continued to purchase Treasurys, pushing the 10-year note's yield down to around 2.96%, and gold, which recently rose to about $950 an ounce. The euro slid against the dollar, while the dollar fell against the yen. Elsewhere in Europe, Germany as well as some Eastern European countries opposed the idea of an Eastern European-wide bailout fund. The Hungarian forint dropped over 2% against both the euro and the dollar. 'At the extreme, the current account adjustments required in Estonia, Lithuania and Bulgaria will need to be an unimaginable 40% to 50% of GDP to close the gap,' noted economists at Goldman Sachs. 'As way of comparison, the biggest current account adjustment during the Asian crisis was Thailand's 21% adjustment.' -Contact: 201-938-5400 
