Ten companies, led by ConocoPhillips, Time Warner Inc. and recently acquired Merrill Lynch, are behind the bulk of the carnage that helped fuel the worst two-month start ever for the S&amp;P 500 Index, which on Monday made another run through its November lows.While the companies that make up the S&amp;P 500 tallied a collective $114 billion in losses in the still-being-reported fourth quarter, the scenario would be remarkably different -- and profitable -- if 10 companies behind $131 billion in losses were removed from the picture, according to S&amp;P's senior index analyst Howard Silverblatt.ConocoPhillips , at the top of the list, was among the investments listed as 'dumb' by billionaire investor Warren Buffet, who said he bought a large amount of the company's stock when oil and gas prices were nearing peak levels. Read more.Time Warner placed second after the media and entertainment giant February reported in early a $16 billion net loss in the fourth quarter. See full story.Merrill Lynch lost $15.8 billion in the fourth quarter, about $500 million more than parent Bank of America Corp. , which in September announced it would buy the troubled financial-services firm.Freeport-McMoRan Copper &amp; Gold Inc. lost $13.9 billion, or $36.78 a share, in the fourth quarter amid hefty inventory and asset write-downs, while Citigroup Inc. tallied a $10 billion loss to place fifth on Silverblatt's list. Read more about Freeport-McMoRan as well as more about Citi.The five next heaviest weights on the S&amp;P were Wachovia Corp., newly acquired by Wells Fargo &amp; Co. , General Motors Corp. , Symantec Corp. , Devon Energy Corp. and Regions Financial Corp. 'The fact that the ten worst losses accounted for $131 billion, therefore leaving the remaining 490 issues with positive earnings is relevant, but saying the index is positive is akin to saying that the S&amp;P 500 is up 12% from its Oct. 9, 2007 highs, if you only had purchased the six issues that are up since then,' said Silverblatt.Those half-dozen companies range from education services provider Apollo Group Inc. , specialty retailer AutoZone Inc. , to natural-gas firm Southwestern Energy Co. , which on Thursday reported fourth-quarter earnings climbed 45.5%,.Biotechnology firm Gilead Sciences Inc. and discount retailer Family Dollar Stores Inc. were also profitable in the fourth quarter, with the latter in January raising its quarterly dividend.Also, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the globe's biggest retailer, last month reported better-than-expected earnings for the fourth quarter.Of 479 reported issues, or 98% of the index's market value, 134 reported negative earnings, and that tally excludes the more than $61 billion loss reported Monday morning by insurer American International Group Inc. Read more on AIG.Word of AIG's loss, along with the government hiking its stake in the battered insurance giant, helped push stocks down Monday. Trading below 7,000 for the first time since Oct. 28, 1997, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 245.47 points in afternoon trading at 6,817.46. The S&amp;P 500 fell 29.63 points to 705.46, while the Nasdaq Composite Index shed 47.58 points to 1,330.26.
