US stocks plunged Thursday amid fresh global turmoil amid a spate of weak economic news, corporate woes and disappointment about the lack of an expected new Chinese economic stimulus plan.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average sank 281.40 points (4.09 percent) to end at 6,594.44, its lowest close since April 1997.  The Nasdaq composite shed 54.15 points (4.00 percent) to 1,299.59 while the broad-market Standard &amp; Poor's 500 skidded to its lowest level since September 1996, dropping 30.32 points (4.25 percent) to 682.55.  The market was hit by a wave of negative news, led by fresh doubts about the survival of General Motors after the struggling automaker warned it could face liquidation due to the economic meltdown. 'GM is particularly worrisome, as the automaker expressed doubts over its ability to survive as a going concern,' said Joseph Hargett at Schaeffer's Investment Research.  The market was also disappointed that China failed to deliver a hoped-for economic stimulus -- prospects for which had sparked a big rally in global markets on Wednesday.  Sacha Tihanyi at Scotia Capital said the market has been desperately seeking some positive news and that China was unlikely to deliver it. 'Expecting Chinese stimulus to provide a boost to global economic fundamentals and help drive a sustainable rally in equities is somewhat like putting the cart before the horse,' the analyst said. 'In fact we?d only half jokingly suggest that for Chinese stimulus to work immediate wonders in boosting China's economy, they might be better off giving stimulus funds to the West to subsidize consumption of imported Chinese goods.' The market digested more weak economic news, including data showing initial claims for US unemployment benefits fell slightly to 639,000 but remained near 26-year highs.  A separate report showed a disappointing 0.4 percent drop in US labor productivity in the fourth quarter. 'This is a classic bad news/bad news story,' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at IHS Global Insight. 'The bad news is that output is plummeting. The equally bad news is that employment and hours are being cut dramatically. Unfortunately, many companies will have no choice but to keep cutting jobs and hours.' The market got no relief from interest rate cuts by the Bank of England and the European Central Bank (ECB) in the face of increasingly dire economic news, as European shares fell sharply.  Both central banks said they were looking at additional efforts to stimulate activity through so-called quantitative easing.  Fred Dickson at DA Davidson said he sees the stock market remaining fragile. 'Weakening economic data continues to be translated by analysts into lower earnings estimates for the current quarter and full year 2009,' he said. 'Predictably, the stock market is struggling to digest rapidly dropping estimates. Consequently, we continue to see above-average, near-term market price volatility marked by sharp rallies and corrections.' Among key stocks, GM skidded 15.45 percent to 1.86 dollars on the latest warning from its auditors. Rival automaker Ford fell 3.21 percent to 1.81 dollars after announcing plans to buy back debt.  General Electric fell 0.45 to 6.66 dollars, following several days of heavy selling amid fears about losses for its finance arm GE Capital and the possibility of losing its top AAA credit rating.  The finance sector saw more turbulence. Bank of America slid 11.7 percent to 3.17 dollars amid an ongoing probe into bonuses paid at Merrill Lynch before the brokerage group was acquired by the US banking.  Citigroup dropped 9.7 percent to 1.02 dollars and Wells Fargo lost 15.9 percent to 8.12 dollars after a credit downgrade.  Bonds rallied strongly on a renewed flight to safety. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond fell to 2.819 percent from 3.011 percent Wednesday and that on the 30-year bond dropped to 3.505 percent against 3.698 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.  In Europe, losses were substantial and widespread, with news of a sharp downgrade to already weak ECB economic forecasts further darkening the outlook.  In London, the FTSE 100 index of leading shares lost 3.18 percent at 3,529.86, in Frankfurt the DAX shed 5.02 percent at 3,695.49 and in Paris the CAC 40 fell 3.96 percent to 2,569.63.  Dealers said there was some nervousness about whether the new monetary policy tack taken by Britain and signaled by the ECB would work, how much it would cost and the ultimate price. 'Quantitative easing is the last-chance saloon for the Bank of England,' GFT market strategist David Morrison told AFP.
