Stock futures recovered their losses to trade broadly flat Friday after the latest Labor Department report showed nonfarm payrolls shrank in line with expectations in February.  European shares were mixed after the U.S. data, with banking stocks among the biggest decliners. Asian markets closed lower, with semiconductor companies in Taiwan among the hardest-hit after a government proposal to consolidate the industry failed to ease concerns.  Network systems firm Ciena Corp. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) was upgraded to neutral from underperform at Credit Suisse, which cited valuation. The broker said, however, that it still expects revenue and earnings per share for fiscal 2009 and 2010 to decline below current Wall Street expectations.  The labor market continued to weaken sharply in February, the Labor Department said. Nonfarm payrolls shrank by 651,000 in February, in line with the 650,000 decline expected by economists surveyed by MarketWatch. Beneath the surface, the report was even weaker. Revised data from the last two months showed 161,000 more job losses than previously estimated. The unemployment rate soared to 8.1% in February from 7.6% in the previous month. Economists forecast the unemployment rate to rise to 8.0%. This is the highest rate since December 1983. Calling it a 'very difficult decision,' Wells Fargo &amp; Co. (WFC:WFC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) slashed its quarterly dividend to 5 cents a share from 34 cents a share in an effort to save $5 billion and help the company pay back the government's recent investment in the firm. 'The actions we're taking every day to build our company and to strengthen our balance sheet...are the right thing to do in any event for our shareholders, customers, and team members and these actions will help us repay the government's investment at the earliest practical date,' Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf said in a press release. Coca-Cola Co. (KO:KO Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) said it plans to invest an additional $2 billion in its China operations over the next three years, according to reports from the region. Chief Executive Muhtar Kent said in a statement quoted by Dow Jones Newswires that the new investment will go to 'new plant and distribution infrastructure, sales and marketing, and R&amp;D.' The announcement follows the launch of Coca-Cola's $2.4 billion bid for Chinese beverage producer Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd. Officials at Bank of America (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) have recently uncovered at least $120 million of losses attributable to one London trader, and 'hundreds of millions' of other losses on derivative trades, The New York Times reported. According to the report, the losses occurred before Bank of America's rushed acquisition of Merrill Lynch and were missed by bank accountants reviewing Merrill's books. The Times report identified the trader reportedly responsible for the currency losses as Alexis Stenfors. The report said Stenfors told the paper the matter was a 'misunderstanding.' AnnTaylor Stores Corp. (ANN:ANN Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) said that its fourth-quarter loss widened to $375.6 million, or $6.66 a share, from $6.67 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier. Sales fell to $483.4 million from $600.8 million. Excluding the goodwill impairments and restructuring charges, the company said it lost $58.1 million, or $1.03 a share. Analysts, on average, estimated a 54 cent per-share loss. The company also said it expects to close 163 stores, more than the 117 it had previously identified. Before the Bell is a daily e-mailed newsletter.  Simon Kennedy is the City correspondent for MarketWatch in London.
