HSBC results are always front-page news in Hong Kong, and they will be particularly keenly watched this year. It may be a global bank with much of its business in Europe and the U.S., but it is still the territory's largest bank, with the bulk of deposits and a crucial role in the economy. Focus will be on bad-debt provisions and the health of the bank's capital base, with a big cash call looking increasingly likely. Over the weekend, more details emerged of a rumored 12 billion pound ($17 billion) discounted rights issue, together with a halving of the dividend. This is expected to be confirmed Monday in tandem with the results announcement. Last week, consensus was for pre-tax profits for 2008 of around $21.5 billion.HSBC is one of the few banks not to have had a capital injection since the financial crisis started. The fact it can still get an audience with institutional investors in the current market says a lot. Any investor who subscribed to the Royal Bank of Scotland rights issue last year, did not just get their fingers burned, but rather, received full-body first-degree burns. Today, the unease over spiraling bad debts and toxic assets means most banks best bet -- or only bet -- is to get funding from governments as lenders of last resort.HSBC will argue it is different. Its business is at various stages in coping with the global downturn. The U.S. side is a mess, with the woes of Household Financial Corp. (HFC) well documented. The U.K. is knee deep in recession. But in Asia, we still need to hear what damage has been done to credit quality by the recession and currency turmoil. HFC in the U.S. continues to be an albatross for the group, accounting for the largest puddle of red ink, with provisions forecast at around $14.7 billion. Since 2006, it's lost HSBC around $30 billion, hence repeated calls by some investors for it to walk away. The U.K. is expected to do much worse in 2009 and 2010 as the recession deepens and negative equity spreads. Europe has been up to 50% of HSBC profits recently, so the slide here will be marked.HSBC's dominance in Hong Kong, where it also owns 62% of Hang Seng Bank , means the territory is still important for the company, contributing roughly 25% of pre-tax profits. An interesting chart in a Merrill Lynch research note reveals Hong Kong makes up 19% of the group's deposit base, and the U.S. takes up 13%. But when it comes to loans made, these figures are 9% and 29%, respectively. One explanation is that rules in Hong Kong require a 30% deposit on a mortgage, while in America, so-called 'ninja' loans (short for 'no income, no job or assets') came with apparently no rules. This might also explain why HSBC did not need a bailout from the U.K. government like some peers. Hong Kong depositors who survive on a few basis points of interest have been bailing it out for years. Hong Kong and Asia are facing their own problems, but these are still regarded as strong franchises.Better placed?Going forward, HSBC will argue it's comparatively better placed than its competitors. It certainly tripped up in buying HFC, but unlike many of its peers, it has not quite fallen flat on its face. When HSBC surveys the gloomy economic outlook, it can at least gain comfort by looking over its shoulder to see that once-equal competitors such as RBS, Citi or Bank of America are now banking pigmies. Put those three together and they still do not add up to HSBC's market capitalization today. They are also, in many cases, on life support after the infusion of government bailout money. New capital could help HSBC move in for the kill and drive home this advantage. It will remove any fears that the bank and its depositors face vulnerability and will give it more firepower to lend, as various banks retreat from the global stage to recuperate. What's more, it will not be slowed down by having governments on its back or sitting on its board.At its core, HSBC has always primarily been a lending bank, despite assorted capital markets businesses. It backed away from embracing investment banking too enthusiastically and periodically saw bankers leave as it shirked from paying big bonuses. It is benefiting from such parsimony now. For those that take up the rights issue, the stock is now trading below its tangible book value which has been a benchmark low in previous recessions. If the dividend is halved as expected, a 5.5% yield is still a decent number today. Few know how bad the global economy will get, but when it does turn, HSBC at least looks to be in a better position than most. Do-it-yourself stimulus One last thought is a new bit of business for HSBC to recirculate its deposit base, which was suggested by Hong Kong Financial Secretary John Tsang in his budget last week. Tsang faced criticism for eschewing a stimulus budget with limited giveaways while predicting the economy will contract by 2% to 3% this year. He later offered a new solution to the newly jobless middle class struggling to make ends meet: Go to the bank and ask for a loan off property assets.It would be surprising if banks are willing to offer a loan to the jobless, particularly as Hong Kong's property sector is expected to see another 20% fall. Perhaps Tsang will act as guarantor. Such comments are seen as another example of an out-of-touch and out-of-ideas government in Hong Kong. There is already talk about another mass July 1 protest march this year.
