PNC Financial Services Group joined a rapidly growing list of corporations on Monday when it cut its dividend 85 percent to preserve capital in the deepening recession, Wall Street experts said. 'You're seeing them up and down the line,' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's, New York.  In fact, S&amp;P estimated that annual dividends at S&amp;P 500 companies this year would fall 22.6 percent from 2008 -- the worst drop since a 36.3 percent plunge in 1938. The firm expects the companies' per-share payouts to fall to $21.97 this year from the $28.39 paid last year.  Even blue chips have cut. General Electric cut its annual dividend to 40 cents from $1.24 on Friday. That was the conglomerate's first dividend reduction since, coincidentally, 1938. 'GE gave cover to other companies to say it's acceptable to cut,' Silverblatt said. Major banks in particular have reduced their dividends as the economy weakens and regulators press financial institutions to bolster their capital reserves against loan losses. So far this year, Bank of America has slashed its dividend 97 percent, JPMorgan Chase cut its dividend 87 percent, and Citigroup suspended its dividend entirely.  Yesterday, PNC, which bought troubled National City Corp. on Dec. 31, slashed its quarterly dividend to 10 cents per share from 66 cents. The next dividend is expected to be declared in early April.  PNC Chairman and CEO James Rohr told analysts during a conference that the move is 'a prudent decision' to build capital and strengthen the balance sheet in the face of a 'severe recession.' The bank's 85 percent dividend reduction should save PNC about $1 billion a year, which it will retain as capital, he said.   Rohr said the dividend was 'not required by regulators,' and that PNC would increase the dividend 'appropriately, after conditions stabilize' as early as the end of the year. But he also said industry oversight is 'changing radically.' 'Any company that is economically sensitive is at risk to cut their dividend,' said Brian Koble, research analyst at Hefren-Tillotson, a money management firm Downtown. 'We're about 14 months into this recession and still haven't found the bottom,' Koble said. 'So companies are going ahead and (reducing) the dividend because they don't see a rebound occurring in the foreseeable future.' But a few companies are raising their dividends these days, mostly in the health care, utilities and consumer sectors, according to S&amp;P research. Companies that increased their dividends in February included Abbott Laboratories (health care); Comcast, PG&amp;E and Integrys Energy Group (utilities); and Avon Products and Colgate-Palmolive (consumer).   Most of Pittsburgh's major corporations have left their dividend rate alone so far, despite the troubled economy. They include such companies as H.J. Heinz, U.S. Steel, PPG Industries and BNY Mellon. 'But non-financial companies are also suffering from a terrible economic situation, and they want to conserve their capital,' Koble said. More Business headlines          
