 With two months down and 10 to go, 2009 is already shaping up as one of the wildest rides in market history. And, yes, that's saying something following the astonishing year that was 2008.  In early February, I spoke of a monster move coming in the market. The vibe was akin to a feeling I'd had entering September, an intuitive sense that something significant was afoot.  While my gut feeling was that it would be higher, into a window of opportunity, I drew careful attention to the distinction between trades and investments, as well as the importance of trailing stops as a stylistic approach. We indeed saw a sharp pop -- Bank of America (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) rallied 85% in the following three days -- but the market failed miserably thereafter, registering double-digit losses in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P. In some ways I was right -- the initial lift, a monster move -- and in other ways extremely wrong, or perhaps early, in offering that the lift could extend the S&amp;P toward 1,000. Either way, those thoughts pale in comparison with what we may see in the weeks ahead. At the top of our catalyst list is AIG (AIG:AIG Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , where we'll be watching to see how the government treats its credit-default-swap obligations. Through our lens, there are two potential outcomes: As floated last week, the government could backstop AIG credit default swaps and bail out those who bet against the company. While this could stem systemic risk in the short term, it would burden taxpayers with huge liabilities and give credit bears fresh ammunition with which to reload their arsenal. Or the government could choose not to backstop AIG credit default swaps, which might light the fuse on further contagion and potentially trigger a downside slide towards our perceived 2009 nadir of S&amp;P 600. While this would be a near-term negative, it would administer the medicine of time and price that is necessary for a natural bottom. The unknown in this equation is the treatment of credit default swaps as a whole, which I'll be watching closely. I've offered in recent weeks that two invisible catalysts lurked: the treatment of CDS and the 'relaxation' of mark-to-market accounting. If either is introduced, the market will explode to the upside, if only for a trade. The script is being written as we speak, and the stakes have never been higher. The takeaway is that we're approaching a binary event for world financial markets where a 20% move could conceivably manifest in the near future. See both sides, manage your risk and remember that discipline must always trump conviction. Over the weekend, the University of Arizona advised students to avoid Mexico during spring break. I use that as an opportunity to remind Minyans to keep an eye on our neighbor to the south, as the risk of civil war is very real. We've been wary of General Electric (GE:GE Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) for some time -- first flagged in 2005, along with General Motors (GM:GM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Ford (F:F Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) as financials in drag -- and it continues to be a focus. A snapshot of General Electric Credit Corp. credit default swaps warrants attention. While Warren Buffett has struggled of late, his words of wisdom should be shared with ye faithful as we edge through these trying times.  I enter Monday's session light, tight and ready to fight with my finger on my short-term trigger. If we see harsh downside toward S&amp;P 600, I will deploy 25% of my long-term nest egg, which has been heretofore 100% cash. EBay (EBAY:EBAY Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) can't seem to get out of its own way. You would think auctions would be good business -- think pawn shops -- but the lack of buyers is noteworthy. I tossed out the Minyanville Underground Railroad last week, and the response has been amazing -- 600 Minyans across 50 states and 30 countries. If you would like to get involved, let me know as we continue to build the Critter Express. This crisis is no longer just financial or economic; it's social. Honesty, trust and respect, please, as society is simply a sum of the parts. Achtung, baby! Germany's finance and foreign ministers called for an introduction of the trading tax, along with tighter and tougher regulations. One of my best friends, who has separated from his wife, said to me: 'I can't decide if I'm more miserable with her or without her.' I responded: 'You're looking at it the wrong way. Ask yourself if you're happier with her or without her. That way, either way you win.' I share this analogy, as it is apt across the spectrum of personal perspectives. Enjoy the journey, for, by the time we get to where we want to be, the trip will be over. 
