Retail shares reversed an earlier climb and headed lower Friday, with AnnTaylor Stores Corp. leading the decliners after the women's clothing retailer reported a wider-than-expected loss. Macy's Inc. was one of the few bright spots after the department-store retailer was upgraded by both Goldman Sachs and Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. The S&amp;P Retail Index fell 2.7% to 226.58 in afternoon trading, after the weakness in U.S. labor markets gathered extraordinary momentum, wiping away more than 2.5 million jobs over the past four months alone. The U.S. economy lost 651,000 jobs in February, the fourth month in a row where job losses were near or above 600,000, the Labor Department reported Friday. Unemployment soared to 8.1%, the highest rate in over 25 years. See full story.Macy's shares jumped 3.3%. Goldman Sachs analyst Adrianne Shapira upgraded Macy's to buy from neutral, saying the company has cut its capital spending and dividend to reduce concerns about its balance sheet. She also said Macy's is a share gainer in the consolidating department-store sector and that efforts to centralize operations can help deliver cost savings. Bank of America/Merrill Lynch analyst also raised the rating on the stock, praising the company's initiatives including My Macy's to help stoke demand. See full story.Goldman's Shapira also upgraded Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. to neutral from sell. Polo shares dropped less than 1%, erasing an earlier gain. With consumers' cutting back discretionary spending, retailers and designers, especially in the luxury space, are pulling out all the tops to help excite shoppers who've been reluctant to spend. Read more on how designers are going to great lengths to survive.AnnTaylor shares tumbled 31% to $3.82. The company said Friday that its fourth-quarter loss widened to $375.6 million, or $6.66 a share, from $6.67 million or 11 cents a share a year earlier. Sales fell to $483.4 million from $600.8 million. Excluding the goodwill impairments and restructuring charges, AnnTaylor said it lost $58.1 million, or $1.03 a share. Analysts, on average, estimated a 54 cent per-share loss, according to FactSet. The company also said it expects to close 163 stores, more than the 117 it had previously identified. It's not giving any profit forecast for the first quarter and for the full year, but said first-quarter sales will be 'under significant pressure.' See full story.Family Dollar Stores Inc. fell 3.1%. J.P. Morgan analyst Charles Grom upgraded the stock to neutral from underweight. Lowe's Cos. shares declined 1%. The home-improvement retailer's stock was upgraded to outperform from market perform by Friedman, Billings, Ramsey &amp; Co. 
