Two-year note yields (UST2YR) declined for a third day, by 8 basis points to 0.90%, also the biggest one-day move in two weeks.   A basis point is 0.01%. Treasury prices move inversely to their yields.   U.S. equities dropped more than 3%, passing through the lows set in November and following declines in European and Asian stock markets to start the week. 'More and more investors are seeking the safety of U.S. government debt,' said Kevin Giddis, managing director of fixed income for Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. 'Why? Why not? I mean, what else are you going to do with your money?' The U.S. government said it is again revamping its bailout of insurance giant AIG (AIG), this third time committing up to another $30 billion  Further contributing to the trading tone, global banking giant HSBC Holdings ( HBC) said that it will shut its U.S. consumer-lending business and that it needs to raise billions more from shareholders.   Treasury prices held their gains after a report showed U.S. consumer spending and personal incomes came in better than expected in January.   The Commerce Department said consumer spending rose 0.6%, higher than the 0.5% that economists surveyed by MarketWatch had expected. Incomes rose 0.4%, much better than the 0.1% decline forecast.   With disposable incomes rising faster than spending, the personal savings rate rose to 5%, the highest since March 1995  Treasurys also shrugged off the Institute for Supply Management's index of manufacturing activity, which said the industry was not as weak as expected in February.   In another sign of more risk-adversity, three-month Libor, or the London  The key lending rate, which usually stays within a half of a percentage point of the Federal Reserve's target rate, got as high as 4.75% in October. The Fed is currently aiming to keep its target rate under 0.25%.   Though Treasury yields rose in January and February, investors' money still seems to be moving out of equities and into fixed income, according to EPFR Global, which tracks fund flows.   Flows into fixed income funds took on a more defensive look in late February, with $1 billion
