U.S. sharemarket benchmarks were dropping past another set of milestones on Monday as stocks succumbed to a broad and deep selloff amid fears that a recovery for the global economy may be a long way off. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently off about 214 points at 6848. The benchmark slid under 7000 on an intraday basis for the first time since Oct. 28, 1997. The Dow last closed below 7000 on May 1, 1997. All 30 of the benchmark's components sank as investors sold heavily in every sector. Financials were lower, with Bank of America dropping more than 15% and Citigroup and J.P. Morgan Chase shedding more than 5%. Industrial giants like Alcoa and Caterpillar also fell, as did shares of General Electric which dropped nearly 8% to slide below $8 a share. The broad selloff pushed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index down roughly 3% to about 713, near its levels of December of 1996, when former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan delivered his famous 'irrational exuberance' speech. The basic materials, energy and financial sectors each declined by 5% or more, and its industrial category was lower by more than 4%. Last week, stocks dropped to the lowest levels in eleven and a half years, and there has been no break in the selling pressure. Friday, the Dow industrials fell nearly 120 points, leaving the benchmark down 11.7% for February - its worst performance for the month since 1933, when it fell 15.6%. 'It's like an unending nightmare,' said Kent Engelke, managing director at Capitol Securities Management in Glen Allen, Va. Other market benchmarks were also weaker Monday. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2% in recent trading, helped by more mild losses for the technology sector. The small-stock Russell 200 Index was down about 3%. For more than five months since the meltdown of Lehman Brothers Holdings, the financial industry's bellwethers haven't been able to right themselves, even after government bailouts in every major industrialized economy, layoffs, and dividend cuts. While many traders acknowledge that those steps will help over the long term, they aren't yet willing to declare an end to the industry's crisis. HSBC Holdings shares were down almost 20% after the bank reported a deep loss and said it plans to raise $18 billion through a rights issue. HSBC's moves triggered another round of selling among its U.S. rivals, as Bank of America fell more than 12%, Citigroup fell 5% and Wells Fargo tumbled 11%. Traders and analysts are hoping the Treasury Department will announce this week new details about how it will value the underwater mortgage bets that are clogging many banks' books. Many are frustrated that such information hasn't already been released - a silence that many market participants say is key to the slide seen in recent weeks. 'People are just abandoning the financial sector,' said strategist Marc Pado, of the brokerage Cantor Fitzgerald. 'Until the government tells these banks what their assets are worth, they just can't lend.' American International Group shares soared about 15% to 48 cents a share, though its revised government rescue package did little to ease unease about the broader financial sector. American Express fell 5.9% amid reports detailing the credit-card issuer's renewed efforts to focus on well-heeled clients who are able to pay off their balances every month. The company is suffering from its previous, ill-timed efforts to expand to riskier borrowers. 'If we had known this was coming, we would have ratcheted back some of our investment and put tighter guardrails on our credit decisions,' said Alfred Kelly, AmEx's president. Shares of PNC Financial Services Group were off more than 6% after the bank slashed its dividend 85% to a dime a share on Monday, citing shifting demands from regulators, combined with withering economic conditions. A rising dollar helped to keep commodity prices in check. Oil futures fell $4.25 to $40.51 a barrel in New York. The broad Dow Jones-AIG Commodity Index was off more than 3%. Treasury prices rose as investors sought safe havens. The two-year note rose 3/32 to yield 0.939%. The 10-year note rose 30/32 to yield 2.912%. New economic data on Monday were mostly glum. U.S. manufacturing activity and construction spending declined, though personal consumption showed a surprising rise. -Contact: 201-938-5400 
