Bank of America Corporation  BAC  Citigroup Incorporated  C  Caterpillar Incorporated  CAT  The major indices steep losses continued into the final hour of trading Thursday, erasing a modest midweek rally, amid concern for automaker General Motors(GM Quote - Cramer on GM - Stock Picks), caution on U.S. banks, and mixed economic news.  Industrials and financials dragged on the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which was recently losing 227 points at 6649, and the S&amp;P was off by 25 points at 687. The Nasdaq was falling 39 points to 1315.  Alcoa(AA Quote - Cramer on AA - Stock Picks), down 16%, and General Motors, down 17%, led the decliners on the Dow. The struggling U.S. automaker said in a 10-K filing that auditors have raised 'substantial doubt' about its ability to continue as a going concern.  Financials took their own beating after Moody's Investors Service said it might downgrade its ratings of Wells Fargo(WFC Quote - Cramer on WFC - Stock Picks) and Bank of America(BAC Quote - Cramer on BAC - Stock Picks) out of caution for potential loan losses. The ratings company expressed concern about JPMorgan as well.  Bank of America, Citigroup(C Quote - Cramer on C - Stock Picks) and JPMorgan(JPM Quote - Cramer on JPM - Stock Picks) were all more than 10% lower, with Citi at times dipping below $1 a share.  'It's too soon to talk about how we'll turn around, people are talking about how to protect themselves in this environment,' says Michael Pento, chief economist for Delta Global Advisors.  'I don't think market is at all enthused with the various stimulus packages that are out there -- or with the amount of debt that we're loading on future generations,' says Pento. 'It wants long-term, strong solutions for the economy, country, and currency.'  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao did not unveil new stimulus on Thursday, despite previous market-moving reports that he would, but other efforts to deal with the economic downturn overseas were announced. Namely, the European Central Bank  slashed its main interest rate by a half percentage point to 1.5%, a new record low.  
