Banks tumbled and led an across-the-board decline in U.S. stocks Monday despite new moves by firms around the world to shore up their books.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average was recently off about 170 points at 6,890. The benchmark slid under 7000 on an intraday basis for the first time since Oct. 28, 1997. The Dow last closed below 7,000 on May 1, 1997.  The S&amp;P 500 was down 2.6%, trading around its lowest levels since late 1996 - around the same time that former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan delivered his 'irrational exuberance' speech. The index's financial category was down 5.4%, and its energy, basic materials and industrial sector all shed more than 4% each. The Nasdaq Composite Index declined 2%.  'It's like an unending nightmare,' said Kent Engelke, managing director at Capitol Securities Management in Glen Allen, Va.  For more than five months since the meltdown of Lehman Brothers Holdings, the financial industry's bellwethers haven't been able to right themselves, even after government bailouts in every major industrialized economy, layoffs and dividend cuts. While many traders acknowledge that those steps will help over the long term, they aren't yet willing to declare an end to the industry's crisis.  HSBC Holdings shares were down almost 20% after the bank reported a deep loss and said it plans to raise $18 billion through a rights issue. HSBC's moves triggered another round of selling among its U.S. rivals, as Bank of America fell more than 12%, Citigroup fell 5% and Wells Fargo tumbled 11%.  American International Group shares soared 14%, but its revised government rescue package did little to ease unease about the broader financial sector. The yields on Treasury securities sank as investors sought the relative safe haven of U.S. government debt. And the dollar, which has benefited recently when risk aversion climbs, was stronger against the euro and the yen.  Billionaire investor Warren Buffett, in his annual letter to shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway released on Saturday, reported that his company saw its worst year since he took it over in 1965. He also said that he didn't expect the economy to improve anytime soon though he expect better times in the longer run.  But some investors pointed to slivers of hope. Lorenzo Di Mattia, manager of hedge fund Sibilla Global Fund, said he sees signs of stability that were absent when the market last plunged in November. For example, the Chicago Board Options Exchange volatility index, or VIX, which reflects traders' expectations of market swings, hasn't spiked. The VIX was recently up about 6% to around 49, compared with a spike above 80 in November.  'Credit is better, volatility isn't making new highs, (and) is a lot lower than November, many stocks are holding the lows, and leadership is changing,' Mr. Di Mattia said.  The U.S. market's declines on Monday followed losses for stock investors in Asia, where the Nikkei 225 Index dropped 3.8% in Tokyo, and in Europe, where the FTSE 100 was down by about 3% in recent trading.  (Rob Curran contributed to this report.)  
