 A day after Citigroup stock dipped below $1, bank stocks endured another selloff Friday, even as investors applauded Wells Fargo's plans to cut its dividend.  Shares of US Bancorp (USB, Fortune 500) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM, Fortune 500) were lower in afternoon trading, falling 5% and 7% respectively. Two of the hardest hit institutions - Citigroup (C, Fortune 500) and Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500) - were narrowly lower.  Two of the most closely-watched bank sector indexes, the S&amp;P Banking Index and KBW Bank Index fell 3% and 5%.   Bucking the trend was Wells Fargo (WFC, Fortune 500), whose shares were up about 2%.   Investors were encouraged by comments from CEO John Stumpf, who indicated that the bank's operating results for the first two months of the year were strong.   His remarks, however, came as the San Francisco-based banking giant unveiled plans to cut its quarterly dividend 85%. The company said it expected the move to save $5 billion annually and help the firm grow its market share at a time when some of its peers are receiving extensive assistance from the government. 'This was a very difficult decision but it's absolutely right for our company and our shareholders,' Stumpf said in a statement.  Ongoing fears about the health of the nation's largest banks have weighed not only on financial stocks, but the broader market. Major indexes finished at their lowest levels in nearly 12 years Thursday, hurt, in part, by worries about the big banks.  Concerns about banks' exposure to soured mortgages and worries about rising losses tied to other consumer loans remain front and center for investors.  Many experts are betting that loan losses are likely to increase as a result of the nation's souring economy. The most recent evidence of how bad this recession is was Friday's news that the unemployment rate climbed to 8.1% - its highest level in 25 years.  As a result, some analysts have warned that the entire banking sector could require as much as $1 trillion or more in additional capital. First Published: March 6, 2009: 12:04 PM ET
