NEW YORK (MarketWatch) -- Officials at Bank of America  (BAC:  BAC  News , chart , profile , more  Last:  Delayed quote data  Add to portfolio  Analyst  Create alert  Insider  Discuss  Financials  Sponsored by:  , , )  have recently uncovered at least $120 million of losses attributable to one London trader, and 'hundreds of millions' of other losses on derivative trades, The New York Times reported on Friday. According to the report, the losses occurred before Bank of America's rushed acquisition of Merrill Lynch and were missed by bank accountants reviewing Merrill's books. The Times report identified the trader it reported was responsible for the currency losses as Alexis Stenfors. The report said Stenfors told the paper the matter was a 'misunderstanding.' Regarding the new losses on derivatives, the report said that discussions about how to account for the positions in question were ongoing during Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill, and were not acknowledged until after the deal closed.  Print  Disable Live Quotes  Subscribe to RSS  More Market Pulse  11 minutes ago  40 minutes ago  6:19 AM today  Top stories  5:31 AM today  55 minutes ago  47 minutes ago  Most Popular  PARTNER CENTER  The Wall Street Journal Digital Network:  Copyright  2009 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy .  MarketWatch.com: Stock Market Quotes - Business News - Financial News  Intraday data provided by Interactive Data Real Time Services, a division of Interactive Data Corp. and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. Dow Jones Indexes(SM) from Dow Jones &amp; Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by Comstock and is at least 60-minutes delayed. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real-time last sale data provided by NASDAQ.  
