 U.S. bank stocks have a better shot at recovering from their recent collapse than technology issues did after the bursting of the dot-com bubble, analysts said Tuesday. Last week's 84% decline in the Standard &amp; Poor's financial index from its February 2007 highs had the sector surpassing the 83% drop in the S&amp;P's information-technology sector from its peak in March 2000 to its trough of October 2002. 'There is probably more opportunity to get stabilization in financials in the near term, as in a year from now they will have bounced off more from the bottom than have technology shares -- so many of [which] went out of business,' said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies &amp; Co. Among the tech survivors, Cisco Systems Inc. (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) typifies the rebound, with what was an $80 stock in 2000 today trading below $15 -- in the vicinity of which it's lingered for most of the intervening years. Looking at a broader gauge, the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index (COMP:COMP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) peaked at about 5,000 in 2000 and currently stands near 1,300. The current troubles plaguing U.S. banks will likely result in federal closures of a couple of hundred of the country's 8,000-plus, said Hogan, 'as opposed to the two-thirds of the dot-coms that no longer exist.' 'We're not going to lose 6,000 banks. We may see some consolidation, but we'll have a collection of stronger consolidated banks with a de-risked business model and a de-leveraged balanced sheet and be stronger for it coming out,' said Hogan. Others were less upbeat about financials' prospects. 'There will be survivors, but the problem with the financial sector coming back is [financial institutions] are going to be regulated, probably in a way we've never seen before,' said Linda Duessel, equity strategist at Federated Securities. On Tuesday, financial shares led a broad market rally after an intense sell-off, with investor sentiment bolstered in part by word from Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) that it was profitable in the first two months of the year.  In its biggest one-day surge since last November, the Dow Jones Industrial Average ($INDU:$INDU Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) gained 379.44 points, or 5.8%, to close at 6,926.49, with Citigroup shares up 38%, Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) rising 28% and J.P. Morgan Chase &amp; Co. (JPM:JPM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) advancing nearly 23%. 'Whether it's a bear-market bounce or something else, we won't know for awhile. The outlook for the economy and pretty much everything else remains pretty bleak. But technically we can't go down forever,' said Barry Ritholtz, director of equity research at Fushion IQ. The S&amp;P 500 Index ($SPX:$SPX Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) rose 43.07 points, or 6.4%, to 719.6, and the Nasdaq gained 89.64 points, or 7.1%, to 1,358.28.  . Hogan said the latest boom period for banks had its roots in the 1999 repeal of provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act, which allowed commercial banks to enter the investment-banking business. 'When the space got crowded, and investment banks needed to find other ways to make profits, they came up with credit derivative products, and that's how we got into the subprime mess,' Hogan said. 'That was the boom, and the bust of it is what we're going through now.' Kate Gibson is a reporter for MarketWatch, based in New York.
