 General Electric Co. is what market analysts like to call a bellwether. It's certainly living up to its reputation. According to Webster's dictionary, a bellwether is an indicator of trends. In a stock market racing ever lower, 's (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) stock is down a commanding 79% in just 12 months. That puts it near the bottom of the heap in the Dow Jones Industrial Average (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , making it a true bellwether in an index that has lost nearly half its value over the same period. Most of 's losses are from its financial operations -- again, a bellwether. Less than a week after cutting the dividend he vowed to defend,  Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt sent a note Tuesday to shareholders offering a feeble mea culpa for the company's dismal performance.  He confessed that he didn't fully appreciate the risk of overleveraging. Immelt said he didn't see the ensuing market rout coming, and admits he doesn't know where it all will end. Fair enough; he has plenty of company. Few people saw the crash coming. But there were telltale signs that the best and brightest in corporate America either didn't comprehend or simply ignored. One of those, and this was big, was the collapse of Bear Stearns almost exactly a year ago. It held all the ingredients needed to understand the root of the problem -- risky lending and lax credit assessment -- and showed just how dire were the consequences. But if Immelt's note is to be believed, Bear Stearns' fall didn't point to where this was headed. When it finally became clear, it was too late. By then, , just like Citigroup Inc. (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Bank of America Corp. (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , was too deep in the game to get out without sacrificing its dividend and throwing itself on the mercies of the federal government. Financial institutions have led this decline from the start, their books laden with bad loans and arcane collateral requirements that fell victim to the debunked myth that real-estate prices only go up. Once again, the bellwether term fits. Entire industries are now in peril because of the financial sector's reckless behavior. Look at the Dow industrials. Would Caterpillar Inc. (CAT:CAT Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) or Alcoa Inc. (AA:AA Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) be in the pickle they are today if investment banks had behaved responsibly? Another moniker  has long carried is that of a blue-chip company. According to Barron's Dictionary of Finance and Investment Terms, 'blue chip' refers to any 'nationally known company that has a long record of profit growth and/or dividend payment and a reputation for quality management, products and services.' Some of those traits are now in jeopardy at . Immelt wrote that we are in the midst of a 'fundamental repricing of risk.' Given 's share price, it's pretty clear investors are reassessing its claim to being a blue chip. There's one thing Immelt need not fear, though. As the market continues to unwind, no one is disputing whether  still deserves to be called a bellwether of the economy. -- Jim Jelter 
