 U.S. stock investors have little to look forward to in the week ahead, when Washington budget maneuverings and the unfolding saga of some of America's largest companies are likely to vie with retail-sales data and a handful of corporate earnings. 'The markets will largely move around interpretations of things that moved us before: the impression of things coming out of Washington and the budget debate,' said Art Hogan, chief market economist at Jefferies &amp; Co. Lawmakers are working on a spending bill for the government's operations for the next six months. Investors will be looking for clues of how the budget will affect various industries, like health care, Hogan said. Stocks are coming off a bruising five sessions. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 Index (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 7% in the week ended March 6, the largest weekly decline since late November and its fourth straight negative week. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) lost 6% in the week, also its fourth straight weekly decline. Further cracks in some large companies' financial foundations could rattle markets again. Adding to dismal sentiment in the past week, Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , once the largest U.S. bank, traded below $1 on concerns the government would take steps that could slash the value of its stock. Shares of General Motors Corp. (GM:GM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , still the nation's largest U.S. automaker, fell to the lowest in 75 years, after the company's auditor raised doubts about its ability to continue as a going concern.  General Electric Corp. (GE:GE Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) shares lost 17% in the latest week on worries about the conglomerate's liquidity and write-downs at unit GE Capital, though they rallied Friday after Barclays Capital upgraded its outlook on GE's debt. Any news out of China related to the country's stimulus plans will also be watched, after hopes of more spending by the country sent stocks up worldwide, only to be dashed the following day. Clear indications of an improvement in the Chinese economy would be key to reviving investor confidence, analysts said. The U.S. government's February report on retail sales Thursday will headline economic data for the week. The previous report, for January, showed an unexpected increase, by 1%, in sales, the first gain in seven months. 'You have to believe it will revert back to a negative trend,' said Christopher Sullivan, chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union. 'The underlying fundamentals don't support a very vigorous consumer.' The market has already battled with some major economic releases in recent days, including February reports on manufacturing and service-sector activity, as well as U.S. job losses. The Labor Department said Friday U.S. employers cut 651,000 jobs last month, pushing the unemployment rate to the highest in 25 years.  In corporate earnings news, home builder Hovnanian Enterprises (HOV:HOV Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and grocery-store chains Kroger Co. (KR:KR Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) will report on Tuesday. Office-supplies retailer Staples Inc. (SPLS:SPLS Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) will give its results on Wednesday. Also keeping consumer spending on the front burner, teen clothing retailers Hot Topic (HOTT:HOTT Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , American Eagle Outfitters (AEO:AEO Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) and Aeropostale (ARO:ARO Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) will report results. Any glimmer of positive developments, either from economic data, Washington, or individual companies, would be met with open arms. 'It's as glum as it's been in anyone's career, really,' said Lawrence Creatura, a portfolio manager for small-cap value stocks at Federated Investors, which manages $407 billion in assets under management. 'Optimists are an endangered species.' The markets broke through several key levels this week, among them when the S&amp;P 500 index fell below 741, the low from Nov. 21 and until recently, considered the low of this current bear market. The Dow fell to levels not seen since 1997. The Nasdaq Composite (COMP:COMP Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) ended the week at 1,294, the lowest close since March 2003. Financials continue to make waves. Among the shocks of the week past, a handful of companies, including Wells Fargo (WFC:WFC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) on Friday, slashed their dividends to conserve cash. A total of 39 members of the S&amp;P 500 have reduced dividends this year, according to J.P. Morgan analysts led by Thomas J. Lee. But the pace is four times faster than in 2008. Those broad declines make many stocks look like reasonably priced investments, Creatura said. Bond markets, meanwhile, will be keen to gauge demand at the Treasury Department's auctions of $63 billion in notes and bonds. On Tuesday, the government will sell $34 billion in 3-year notes (UST3YR:UST3YR Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , followed by $18 billion in 10-year notes (UST10Y:UST10Y Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) the next day. On Thursday, $11 billion in 30-year bonds (UST30Y:UST30Y Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) will be offered. Deborah Levine is a MarketWatch reporter, based in New York.
