 Falling bank stocks weighed on the financial sector early Thursday as a cautious outlook from Moody's on Wells Fargo and J.P. Morgan Chase worried investors, while shares of Citigroup, once the most powerful U.S. bank, headed toward $1. The KBW Bank exchange-traded fund (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which tracks the largest U.S. banks, fell 5%, and the Financial Select Sector SPDR (: Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , which tracks all the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500, slid 4.5%. For some perspective, the financial stocks in the S&amp;P 500 (SPX:SPX Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) had more of the riskiest types of assets on their balance sheets at the end of 2008 than they did at the end of that year's first quarter, according to research from market strategist Ed Yardeni and his team. Yardeni's latest research shows that there were $537.4 billion of Level 3 assets at the firms at the end of 2008. 'That's actually up to 10.3% of total assets from 8.0% at the end of the first quarter' of 2008, Yardeni said. 'Even uglier is that 80.6%, or $7.4 trillion, of the assets held by the S&amp;P financials companies were Level 2,' he said in a research report. Level 2 assets are so-called mark-to-model, which are carried at a value based on assumptions, not true market prices. Shares of Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 7% Thursday morning, to $1.05. And Wells Fargo and J.P. Morgan (JPM:JPM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) fell 12% and 6%, respectively. Long viewed as two of the best-positioned firms in the global financial collapse, the banks saw their stocks fall after Moody's expressed renewed concern about their near-term future. Moody's on Wednesday said it is reviewing Wells Fargo &amp; Co.'s (WFC:WFC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) long-term ratings and may downgrade them, depending on its analysis of the impact that future credit costs could have on Wells' capital ratios. 'The review was prompted by a concern that Wells Fargo's capital ratios could deteriorate in 2009 from their current levels, which are comparatively low, because of the potential need to take high loan loss provisions in 2009,' Moody's said in a statement. Moody's cut J.P. Morgan's rating outlook to negative from stable. The change reflects the rating agency's expectations that J.P. Morgan's results will continue to be saddled by sustained high provisions and credit costs for the next several quarters, and, as a result, J.P. Morgan's capital generation is likely to be modest, Moody's said. On the upside, shares of asset manager Legg Mason Inc. (LM:LM Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) were up about 7% after the firm said it had sold most of its holdings of debt from structured investment vehicles and other similar conduits. Costs incurred by the holdings, once worth billions of dollars, had contributed to Legg Mason's poor recent performance, which included a $1.5 billion net loss in the fourth quarter of 2008. Greg Morcroft is MarketWatch's financial editor in New York.
