 U.S. stock futures rose on Tuesday, as the chief executives of beleaguered banks Citigroup and Bank of America defended their performance and as mergers-and-acquisitions activity drew renewed attention following Dow Chemical's move to go ahead with a stalled buyout and reports Genentech was on the verge of being fully acquired. S&amp;P 500 futures rose 13.2 points to 689.10 and Nasdaq 100 futures added 15.5 points to 1,062.50. Dow industrial futures advanced 117 points. U.S. stocks fell to fresh multi-year lows on Monday, with technology stocks in particular losing ground. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite fell 25 points, or 2%, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 79 points and the S&amp;P 500 lost 6 points. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is due to make a speech on the topic of financial reform and systemic risk at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. Meanwhile, U.S. officials are examining what fresh steps that may need to take to stabilize Citigroup (C:C Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) barely a week after the third rescue of the bank, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Citi meanwhile, in a memo to employees distributed by CEO Vikram Pandit, said it was profitable during the first two months of the year, with its best quarter-to-date performance since the third quarter of 2007. In that quarter, Citi earned $2.2 billion, while analysts polled by FactSet had forecast a loss for the bank. Citi shares surged 13% to $1.19. Bank of America (BAC:BAC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) also rose 13%, as The Wall Street Journal reported that CEO Ken Lewis has been saying that bank's problems are not as bad as Citi's. Also on the docket for Tuesday are wholesale inventories for January. Overseas, China reported its first decline in consumer prices since 1996. Oil futures held around $47 a barrel, while gold futures slipped $6 an ounce. The dollar fell vs. major rivals, notably the euro. Rohm &amp; Haas (ROH:ROH Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) rose 5% after reaching a tentative deal to be bought by Dow Chemical (DOW:DOW Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) for the original price of $15.3 billion in cash, or $78 a share. The two top shareholders in Rohm &amp; Haas put up $3 billion to help close the deal, and Dow's banks agreed looser financing terms. Dow Chemical dropped 9%. After the Merck-Schering Plough deal on Monday, attention will turn to Genentech (DNA:DNA Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , with reports the biotech is close to agreeing to a $95-a-share offer from majority owner Roche to buy out remaining shares. Wal-Mart Stores (WMT:WMT Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , the world's top retailer and a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, was downgraded to hold from buy at Citi, with the broker saying a bill before the House of Representatives would greatly simplify the process of union formation, limit the ability of employers to caution employees against unionization and impose several restrictions on the bargaining process. Wal-Mart shares edged up 0.3%. Another Dow component, Walt Disney (DIS:DIS Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , was downgraded to sell from neutral by Pali Capital, with the broker saying 'everything is going wrong at the same time' and seeing continued deterioration in the theme park business. Led by a recovery by HSBC Holdings (HBC:HBC Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials   , , ) , Asia stocks mostly advanced on Tuesday, with the Hang Seng up 3.1% in Hong Kong, though the Nikkei 225 fell 0.4% to a fresh 26-year low. In Europe, banks also recovered, with the German DAX 30 up 1.6% and the U.K. FTSE 100 up 1.2%. Daimler (DAI:DAI Last: Delayed quote data Analyst   Create alert Insider   Discuss Financials , , ) also rose on a Morgan Stanley upgrade. Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch's London bureau chief.
