By Cecile Lefort   SYDNEY, Dec 24 (Reuters) - All I want for Christmas is ... my   job!   That's a refrain heard around the world as the financial   crisis puts hundreds of thousands out of work. But for some   Australian bankers, it's a seasonal wish that may just come true.   A straw poll by Reuters of bankers and investors in   Australia's debt markets found that respondents see an 88 percent   chance of keeping their current jobs in 2009.   Good news, yes, but no one is popping the champagne corks   just yet.   'I'm not relieved a bit. Only the paranoid survive and it's   better to be prepared for the worst,' said one investment banker   at a U.S. bank, who has survived several rounds of blood-letting   at his firm this year.   Since the credit crisis escalated in August 2007, financial   companies have axed almost 300,000 jobs worldwide, mostly in the   United States and Europe.   But Asia is not isolated, and investment bankers fear more   job cuts in the next few weeks that could slice more than 1,000   jobs at Wall Street and European banks in the region.   However, within Asia, layoffs have been more constrained in   Australia in part thanks to a strait-laced regulatory regime that   prevented bankers indulging in the worst excesses of the subprime   bubble.   Australian financial institutions have generally kept layoff   numbers close to their chest, but analysts estimate the cuts so   far amount to just a few thousand -- a small drop in an industry   that employs 402,500 and accounts for more than 7 percent of   Australia's annual economic output.   In the United States, in contrast, the finance and insurance   sector shed 20,000 jobs in November alone, according to the   monthly payrolls figures, leaving it at just over 6 million.   'The problems have been much worse overseas. We don't have   the subprime or housing defaults seen in the U.S.,' said John   Honan, chief economist at Ausbil Dexia.   The crisis has strangled global M&amp;amp;A activity, which dropped   by almost a third this year to below $2.9 trillion, the lowest   annual volume since 2005, based on preliminary data from Thomson   Reuters.   The outlook for the first half of 2009 is equally bleak, with   total deal value forecast to fall around 30 percent to about $2   trillion, according to Paul Parker, Chairman and Head of Global   M&amp;amp;A at Barclays Capital.   SURPRISING OPTIMISM   Australian bankers' confidence may be partly due to a wave of   company restructurings this year to counter a sharp business   slowdown. Still, the optimism is surprising given that bankers in   debt markets have been amongst the hardest hit.   Things could get worse too, with Australia's economy set to   grow just 1 percent in the year to June after 17 years of   uninterrupted growth, often averaging above 3 percent.   'There's no doubt there are tough times ahead and there will   be more changes in the industry,' said Anthony Bell, director of   debt syndication at Societe Generale in Sydney.   'There's no point complaining about the world's economics, be   part of it. It's a new world,' he added.   Macquarie Group, Australia's top investment bank,   has let go around 500 from its 13,500 global workforce, according   to market sources. Macquarie has declined to confirm any figure.   Second-ranked lender Westpac Banking Corp, which   acquired St George Bank this year in the nation's   biggest banking takeover, has also let go a few hundred staff,   according to analysts. Westpac declined to say how many.   Australia&amp;amp;New Zealand Banking Group, the No.4   lender, said it has cut 800 jobs from a workforce of 36,000.   Insurance Australia Group Ltd, the biggest home and car   insurer, has cut about 5 percent of its staff, or 600 positions.   The survey asked bankers what were the chances, expressed as   a percentage, of them keeping the same job throughout 2009.   The answers ranged from 70-100 percent, with an average of 88   percent. The 11 respondents came from institutions including   National Australia Bank Ltd, Aberdeen Asset Management,   ABN AMRO, Societe Generale, Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd   and Deutsche Bank.   'It's good news, I'm happy,' said a bond salesman after   surviving a wave of layoffs at a foreign bank.   'There are so many people -- and good ones -- out of work, I   am happy to work.'   (Editing by Ian Geoghegan)   Keywords: FINANCIAL/AUSTRALIA JOBS   (cecile.lefort@reuters.com; +612-9373-1234; Reuters Messaging: cecile.lefort.reuters.com@reuters.net)  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
