By Wayne Cole   SYDNEY, Dec 16 (Reuters) - Australia's central bank believes past aggressive cuts in interest rates should support the economy and give it time for a 'period of assessment' on policy, suggesting its dramatic easing campaign was set to slow.   Minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) December policy meeting released on Tuesday showed its policy board felt sharp cuts in interest rates, coupled with government handouts and a weaker local dollar amounted to a significant stimulus that would support demand over the year ahead. 'The size of the response to date was judged to be such that a period of assessment of local and overseas events was warranted over the summer,' the minutes showed.   The central bank's hint of a pause in easing saw investors pare chances of hefty rate cuts in the next few months. March bill futures fell 0.06 points to 96.87 after the minutes, although investors are still pricing in chances the cash rate will be lowered by at least 100 basis points by March.   The RBA does not usually hold a policy meeting in January, but investors are pricing in a chance that Governor Glenn Stevens will use his power to call a meeting and cut in January.   The RBA cut the cash rate by 1 percentage point early this month, taking it to a six-year low of 4.25 percent and bringing its easing since September to a huge 3 percentage points.   However, Tuesday's minutes showed the lack of a January meeting was one reason the board decided to cut by a steep 100 basis points, suggesting it saw no urgent need to meet next month. 'We get the sense that they would prefer to pause for some breathe amid some early signs that policy is beginning to have the desired impact,' said Su-Lin Ong, senior economist at RBC Capital. 'Nevertheless, we expect the RBA to ultimately take the cash rate further into stimulatory territory -- 3.50 percent by end of first quarter -- as global cash rates converge lower amid an intensifying global recession.' The RBA minutes showed that the scale of the December cut was intended to boost consumer and business confidence, sorely battered by turmoil on global financial markets and the threat of a world recession.   SLUMP IN HOUSING   Data released on Tuesday showed housing starts slumped 10.7 percent in the September quarter, their fastest rate of decline in eight years, knocked down by the global credit crunch and decade-high mortgage rates.   Despite falling supply, analysts say that house prices are likely to fall only at a modest pace given rapid migration inflows to Australia and steady population growth. 'At an annual rate, dwelling starts in the third quarter were only 142,000, well below underlying demand of around 175,000 starts per year,' said Helen Kevans, economist at JP Morgan. 'The imbalance between supply and demand helps to explain why house prices have not tumbled, despite poor affordability. The recent and significant cuts to the official cash rate may help boost housing starts going forward.' The RBA board concluded that with demand sluggish and earnings from commodity exports expected to suffer, inflation was likely to decline in the year ahead.   The RBA forecast that sliding petrol prices would likely take 0.75 percentage points off the consumer price index (CPI) in the current quarter, pulling it down from the previous quarter's 5 percent annual pace.   The RBA expected annual growth in the CPI to slow to under 2.5 percent by the middle of next year, though underlying inflation would only return to the middle of its 2 to 3 percent target band by mid-2011.   (Additional reporting by Anirban Nag, editing by Jonathan Standing) Keywords: AUSTRALIA ECONOMY/   (anirban.nag@reuters.com ; +61 2 9373 1871; Reuters Messaging: anirban.nag.reuters.com@reuters.net )  COPYRIGHT  Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.  The copying, republication or redistribution of Reuters News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters.
