WASHINGTON  The US trade deficit rose unexpectedly in October as a weak global economy hurt both imports and exports and the gap with China widened, a government report showed Thursday.  The 1.1-percent deficit jump in October to $57.2 billion contrasted with analysts' expectations of a drop to $53.5 billion and fuelled fears of a sharper than expected contraction of the world's most developed economy.  The politically sensitive trade deficit with China increased marginally to $27.9 billion in October from $27.8 billion the previous month, the Department of Commerce report said.  The total volume in US goods and services trade fell 1.7 percent in October, with declines in both imports and exports, also pointing to a deepening global economic crisis, the report showed.  October imports fueled by petroleum were down 1.4 percent from September to $208.9 billion while exports dipped 2.4 percent across all the major categories to $151.7 billion.  It marked the third straight month of declining exports and imports, underscoring weakening US international trade amid the global slowdown from record peaks in July, when US exports hit $168.1 billion and imports $229.4 billion.  The total trade deficit for the first 10 months of 2008 was $590.9 billion, with analysts expecting it to cross the $700 billion mark for the whole year.  'As world growth slows dramatically, and many of America's largest trading partners slide into recession, export markets are looking significantly more challenging for US firms,' said Meny Grauman of CIBC World Markets.  Export demand, a key support for growth in the first three quarters of 2008, 'is in the process of collapsing in response to recessionary conditions in Europe and Japan, as well as the sharp rebound in the US dollar,' said IHS Global Insight economist Brian Bethune.  The global slowdown is also curbing US investment in plant and equipment, noted Christopher Cornell, an economist at Moody's Economy.com.  Exports of industrial supplies and materials and imports of capital goods both fell in October, leading declines of their respective categories, he said.  'Investment is strongly pro-cyclical, and these constitute another indicator of a global recession,' he said.  The October trade figures also signaled a steeper decline in economic growth for the fourth quarter of 2008.  They 'imply that a larger share of the rapid decline in US domestic demand will come from falling domestic production than previously estimated, pushing down GDP at a pace in excess of five percent annualized,' said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America.  Exports of civilian aircraft were down 28 percent to $1.6 billion, which could be partly attributed to a Boeing strike that ended in late October.  Net imports of petroleum in October rose 2.5 percent to $32.7 billion and experts said the trade deficit would have improved had it not been for the oil buying surge in the aftermath of the September hurricanes.  The trade deficit with Canada, the US largest trading partner, narrowed 21 percent to $6 billion in September. The gap with Mexico, the second-largest trading partner, narrowed 2.8 percent to $4.8 billion.  The deficit with Japan rose to $6.0 billion from $5.6 billion.  The yawning trade gap with China remains a concern as it accounts for nearly 60 percent of the total deficit in manufactured goods, said the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition.  'The fact that a single country, China, now accounts for almost 60 percent of the US trade deficit in manufactured goods should gravely concern President-elect (Barack) Obama and the Congress,' said Auggie Tantillo, the coalition's executive director.  
