  Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens has not ruled out cutting interest rates in January if circumstances warranted it.  January is a month when the RBA board does not normally meet and its next scheduled meeting to discuss monetary settings is Tuesday, February 3.  When asked where he would be on the first Tuesday in January 2009, the time of the month when the RBA meets in any other month, Mr Stevens said: I will not be at the office, but I wont be far from the office.  No meeting has been scheduled for this time.  In truth, the option is open in any month to do something intermeeting if theres a big event to cause it.  Debt futures markets are already expecting the RBA to cut interest rates by 25 basis points in January.  This follows this months 100 basis point cut, which took official interest rates to a six-and-half-year low of 4.25 per cent, in an effort to kick-start the spluttering domestic economy.  JPMorgan chief economist Stephen Walters said the RBA governors comments, in his last public address for the year, left open the possibility of a rate cut announcement on January 6, if the global financial crisis worsened.  The governor (Mr Stevens) suggested that with the uncertainty, they may have to be prepared to be nimble and ready to act, and every other central bank is prepared to do the same thing, Mr Walters said.  Mr Stevens on Tuesday also said businesses, financial markets, households and policymakers were living through interesting times.  But the longer-term outlook was not as bad as some people thought.  Given the global situation, we have a difficult period to negotiate, Mr Stevens told the Australian Business Economists annual dinner in Sydney.  But we can negotiate it.  The long-run prospects for the Australian economy have not deteriorated to the extent that some people may presently be feeling.  We do have reasonable grounds for some quiet confidence about the future, however bad the storm at present may be.  The RBA has slashed official interest rates by 300 basis points since September, reversing the 12 rates rises between mid-2002 and March 2008.  However, Mr Stevens said households were yet to respond to lower interest rates and falling petrol prices.  Consumer spending, which slowed significantly in the period from about February to June as interest rates and petrol prices rose, has remained slow since, even as interest rates and petrol prices have fallen significantly.  Mr Stevens said households were more likely to be more cautious about debt in future over the next couple of years.  The RBA also expects businesses to scale back plans for investment and hiring in response to a slowdown in consumer demand and uncertainty about global developments.  So in the period ahead, private demand could look weaker than it has for some years, Mr Stevens said.  On a more optimistic note, in response to a question, Mr Stevens said Australian house prices were unlikely to decline by 30 to 40 per cent, like the US, because of an undersupply of housing.  I think we can rest easy, he said.  Mr Stevens said Australia was unlikely to fall into a deflation trap amid falling energy prices.
