Business confidence sank to a new low in November, with incoming orders on companies' books falling to 'recessionary' levels.  Last month's decline took National Australia Bank's monthly survey of business confidence down 1 point to minus-30, a level below that of the 1990-91 recession.  A negative reading indicates that pessimists outnumber optimists. Companies' confidence has now slid for 11 months in a row.  'The recent worsening in global financial and credit conditions, lower asset prices and global recessionary fears have taken an exacting toll on confidence in the near term,'' said NAB group chief economist Alan Oster in a statement. 'At the same time, actual business outcomes have weakened and turned poor.''  'One of the more concerning readings in the entire November survey was the further significant deterioration in orders,'' he said. 'Forward orders have fallen to recessionary levels in both manufacturing and retail.''  New forward orders have dropped 5 points to nearly -25.  'That clearly is not helping business confidence and will be reflected in future employment and business investment plans.''  The decline comes in spite of the Reserve Bank and the government's actions to kick-start the economy. The RBA lopped two percentage points from the interest rate in three months by November and followed up with another cut of 100 basis points last week.  The government had also announced a $10.4 billion stimulus packaged aimed at families and pensioners most likely to spend the money.  Nonetheless, confidence has fallen ''markedly'' across all sectors, the bank said, with the prospect of a prolonged global recession slashing profits and weighing on demand.  The outlook for the mining industry, considered a driver of Australia's economic growth, also dimmed.  'Ahead of seasonal holidays, the recreational and personal services sector is now the 'most confident' at a still poor minus-12 index points in trend terms,'' the report said.  Financial businesses and property, transportation and utilities, and the mining sector ranked confidence at about minus-24 index points. The retail sector has hit minus-20 points while construction, wholesale and manufacturing came in below that point.  And the negative feeling was reported wasn't limited by geography - all states reported a drop in sentiment.  Conditions deteriorate  Business conditions dropped as well, falling 6 index points to minus-17 points, around the level of late-1992, pushed down across all industries and states with the exception of mining.  Employment dropped a 'relatively sharp'' 7 points to minus-17 index points in November, 'strongly suggesting that labour shedding is occurring - which to date is more bearish than the Australian Bureau of Statistics employment estimates,'' the survey said.  
