The Australian dollar opened more than 2% firmer as US authorities' plans to boost their stricken economy lifted demand for risk-sensitive assets.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at 66.73/77 US cents, up 2.14% from Monday's close of 65.32/37.  Overnight, the local unit traded between 65.35 US and 66.75 US cents. It was also buying 62 yen and 51.6 euro cents.  Corporate dealer with online foreign exchange firm OzForex Darren Richardson said the Australian dollar kept its gains from late Asian trading on Monday as markets reacted optimistically to US President-elect Barack Obama's plans for the largest public spending on infrastructure since the 1950s.  President-elect Obama announced plans to invest in broadband, education and make public buildings use less energy.  ''He (Obama) was willing to spend a lot on infrastructure to stimulate the economy,'' Mr Richardson said from Toronto.  ''This gave a lot of confidence for everyone - equities and commodities are higher, and obviously the Aussie dollar has strengthened considerably.''  Also, the US House Financial Services Committee chairman Barney Frank said Congress and the White House were approaching an arrangement on a rescue plan for the beleaguered American car industry.  The rescue package would give the three major US car-makers, General Motors, Ford and Chrysler $US15 billion ($22.47 billion) in loans to continue operating until March.  ''They will also likely be bailed out as well, with Obama saying it was not an option to let them fail,'' Mr Richard said.  ''This gave a lot of confidence across the board with US treasuries and the US dollar sold off.''  Mr Richardson said market confidence was rising as more details emerged on the various stimulus packages.  On Tuesday, the National Australian Bank's monthly business survey for November is due for release while the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens addresses the Australian Business Economists annual dinner in Sydney.  ''The Reserve Bank governor's comments will always have an impact, particularly in this environment,'' Mr Richardson said.  Mr Richardson expects the Australian dollar to find support around 66 US cents during the local session.  
