HOPES Canberra cash handouts will kick-start demand stimulated sharemarket gains yesterday for most retailers and consumer goods makers.  As the global economy stalls amid the credit-crunch fallout, governments and central banks are rolling out spending packages and rate cuts to revive consumer and business confidence and avert a deep global recession.  Analysts say the eroded value of Australia's raw material exports means a large portion of the estimated $8.7 billion in cash handouts to be paid out this week will need to be spent quickly to keep Australia recording growth in the fourth quarter.  Pensioners and low-to-middle income families started to receive their extra cash yesterday and retailers are praying for a spending spree. Highlighting retail-sector pain, clothing maker Pacific Brands yesterday said it was reviewing its dividend after a slide in consumer sentiment.  Helping the All Ordinaries Index charge 3.7 per cent higher to 3553.8 points yesterday were JB Hi-Fi, with its share price up by 9.7 per cent, consumer and industrial products company GUD Holdings, up 13.4 per cent, and Harvey Norman, up 3.4 per cent. Tatts Group and Crown rose by 5 per cent and 3 per cent.  Traders said the moves were exaggerated by thin volume and were aided by hopes the US would further expand measures to aid its economy after shockingly weak jobless figures were released on Friday.  Macquarie analysts say if the Rudd Government's one-off cash payments to households, coupled with lower rates and eased petrol prices, don't stimulate spending in the next three weeks, the Reserve Bank board will call a special rate-setting meeting for January to further slash rates.  In the past two months, as the world's richest countries have fallen into recession, the RBA has dropped rates at the fastest pace since Australia's 1990-91 recession.  The Rudd Government is hoping revived consumer demand will help avert deep job cuts as businesses review spending plans.A Dun &amp;amp; Bradstreet Business Expectations Survey, released yesterday, showed an increasingly grim outlook for profits for the three months to March.  However, the outlook for employment and spending levels was stable.  The survey showed sales and profit expectations had dived further into negative territory, with 54 per cent of firms anticipating a downturn in sales, while 58 per cent expected profits to fall.  Selling price expectations have climbed to the highest figure yet recorded by the survey, with 82 per cent of firms set to raise prices in the March quarter in a bid to salvage profits.  The employment outlook indicator remained little changed from the last survey and showed that one in five executives expected to have fewer staff in the March quarter than they did a year ago. One in 10 expected to cut capital investment.  The survey showed three-quarters of firms had been hurt by swings in the Australian dollar.     
