GLIMMERS of hope for the US carmaking industry could provide some short-term relief for Australia's battered sharemarkets today.  The industry has been under pressure, possibly resulting in mass job losses, just as surveys also reveal more gloominess about employment and retail spending in Australia. moved closer to a possible government rescue over the weekend after the Bush administration said it may tap a bank bailout fund for financing and GM's top executive discussed terms with officials.  The talks followed a statement by the White House that it would consider using the $US700 billion ($A1064 billion)  to help GM and Chrysler following the Senate's rejection of an aid package.  That aid package was aimed at giving the ailing carmakers a $US14 billion injection.'Congress has really punted the ball over to the White House,' John Bogle of the Vanguard 500 Index Fund said on Bloomberg Television. 'That will give them temporary stopgap aid. I do not think  is going to go out of business.'Weekend reports quoted White House officials saying they were still gathering financial data from automakers and no decision had been made.  Sources said the administration was trying to keep GM and Chrysler from running out of money before the next Congress takes office on January 6.  On Wall Street on Friday, stocks recovered as investors took heart from the White House announcement. The  index lifted 64.59 points, or 0.75 per cent, to 8629.68. 'The positive performance of the US markets suggests that our market can recoup most of the losses that it put through on Friday, gaining somewhere in the order of 80 points,' CommSec chief equities economist Craig James said.   Job losses in the US auto sector may not be as catastrophic as feared, he said.  A report last month from  said job losses from an automaker failure in 2009 could hit 3.5 million.  US investors face further turmoil, with  amid allegations the operation was a giant fraud.  Those exposed range from hedge funds to private investors. It is unclear if any Australians have been caught up.  Meanwhile, analysts are forecasting the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut between one and two million barrels from OPEC's official daily output quota of 27.3 million barrels at a meeting this week in the hope of lifting crude prices.  CommSec's Mr James said there was little on the domestic front to drive markets this week, with lending finance figures out today, and minutes of the last Reserve Bank of Australia board meeting released tomorrow.   Mr James said the next major test for local markets, now trading near four-year lows, would be the meeting of the US Federal Reserve this week to decide upon interest rate settings.  A survey from consulting firm Hay Group, meanwhile, found almost half of 130 polled Australian and New Zealand companies plan to decrease or freeze staff levels due to the global economic recession.  Seventeen per cent said they would cut jobs, while 27 per cent would keep headcount steady, thrice the number of companies that considered a similar action eight months ago.  with Bloomberg and AFP     moved closer to a possible government rescue over the weekend after the Bush administration said it may tap a bank bailout fund for financing and GMs top executive discussed terms with officials.  The talks fol... Click Headline for Full Story', 'http://www.news.com.au/couriermail/story/0,23739,24798722-3122,00.html', 1)' alt='Add to MySpace ' title='Add to MySpace ' &gt;Add to MySpace 
