Borrowers who fixed their mortgages earlier this year in the hope of beating rising interest rates could face a $17,000 fee if they want to take advantage of cheaper loans.  Fortunate consumers on an average $250,000 standard variable home loan are set to save $128 a month from next week if the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cuts interest rates as expected.  The unlucky ones who fixed their loans for three years in March, when the RBA was still raising rates, could be hit with a $17,000 exit fees if they want to refinance their mortgages, financial market researcher Cannex says.  'The message to consumers: the one thing they need to understand is the risk of having to pay the break costs when interest rates go down,' Cannex senior analyst Harry Senlitonga said.  That's cold comfort for the 13,458 borrowers who fixed their mortgages at about nine per cent for two years or more back in March, after the RBA raised rates for the 12th time since 2002.  With financial markets betting on overnight interest rates hitting a half-century low by next winter, lenders are already slashing fixed rate mortgage rates as borrowers rejoice at the prospect of even cheaper standard variable mortgage rates.  A major home lender owned by the ANZ Banking Group, One Direct, this week slashed interest on its fixed rate home loans as debt futures markets bet on official interest rates falling to three per cent by mid 2009, for the first time since March 1960.  Optimistic economists say plunging home borrowing costs will drive a recovery in the mid-range Australian housing market next year as consumers take advantage of low mortgage rates.  'Home lending fell in this country because the RBA tightened rates,' ICAP senior economist Adam Carr said.  'Now the RBA is easing rates, we should see a pick-up in the housing market.  'I'm not suggesting a price boom, but I think we'll see fairly robust activity.'  A majority of the 18 economists surveyed by AAP expect the RBA to cut interest rates by 75 basis points on Tuesday after the central bank holds its next monthly board meeting.  Such a move would take the cash rate, now at 5.25 per cent, to 4.5 per cent for the first time since June 2002.  That means the existing average standard variable mortgage rate of 7.73 per cent from the major banks would fall to 6.98 per cent, provided lenders matched the expected RBA rate cut.  Under this scenario, monthly mortgage repayments on an average $250,000 home loan would drop by seven per cent to $1,660, from $1,788.  A 75 basis point rate cut from the RBA would see standard variable rates charge about the same interest rate as an average three-year Australian fixed-rate home loan, now on offer.  One Direct slashed its one-year fixed rate loan rate by 140 basis points to 5.49 per cent.  Fixed rate loans comprise just 3.3 per cent of the Australian home lending market, a dramatic change from March when they had a 24 per cent share of the market, amid expectations at the time the RBA would keep raising rates.  
