: Email  : Print  Submit comment: Submit comment  RESERVE Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens has not ruled out cutting interest rates in January, a month when the RBA board does not normally meet.  When asked where he would be on the first Tuesday in January, the time of the month when the RBA meets in any other month, Mr Stevens said: 'I will not be at the office, but I won't be far from the office.  'No meeting has been scheduled for this time.  'In truth, the option is open in any month to do something intermeeting if there's a big event to cause it.  'The flow of data slows down in early January ... (but) I have their (RBA board members') phone numbers.'  His comments came as interest rates were tipped to drop to a low of 3 per cent by March as the Chinese economy slows dramatically and drags Australia closer to recession.  This welcome relief for households would lower rates by a further 1.25 per cent over the next three months and slash the average household's monthly mortgage repayments by another $200.  But the sting will be further job losses across the economy.  Mr Stevens last night warned China's economy was slowing much faster than expected, which could have a serious negative impact on Australia, especially the mining sector.  Mr Stevens said China's economic growth looked to have dropped below 8 per cent, which for China most economists regard as being a recession.  The RBA boss warned the most disturbing factor in the recent months of the global financial crisis had not been the strife on Wall Street but China's economic weakness.  'The fortunes of the Chinese economy are increasingly important, particularly for Australia,' he said.  'China's slowing may be part of a third striking fact . . . of the weakening in economic activity around the world during recent months.'  NAB chief economist Alan Oster expects the gloomy global outlook will force the RBA to slash official interest rates by 0.75 per cent in February and a further 0.5 per cent in March.  In the past four months, the Reserve Bank has cut rates by 3 per cent to a six-year low of 4.25 per cent.  So far, the major banks have passed on about 90 per cent of the official rate cuts.  Since the RBA began cutting rates in September, households with a $300,000 mortgage have saved about $565 in monthly repayments.  Of the Rudd Government's cash bonuses for families and pensioners, Mr Stevens said it was OK if people saved the money rather than spending it - the economy would still benefit.  Mr Stevens was speaking as people on Family Tax Benefit A, pensioners and carers began receiving bonuses of at least $1000.  He said even if people put the money in the bank, 'that presumably takes the place of private saving that would otherwise have been done over a longer period,' he said.  
