Housing starts posted their sharpest decline in eight years in the September quarter as high interest rates dampened the demand to build homes.  The number of dwelling commencements fell by 10.7 per cent to 35,425 units, seasonally adjusted, in the September quarter, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) said on Tuesday.  In the year to September, total dwelling commencements dropped 9.1 by per cent.  JP Morgan economist Helen Kevans said it was no surprise housing starts posted their largest quarterly fall since 2000, given that interest rates were at 12-year highs during July and August. 'Early in the quarter, sentiment was rocked by high official interest rates, the lingering impact of the global credit crunch, and plunging auction clearance rates,' Ms Kevans said in a research note.  Ms Kevans said excessive red tape in the building sector, the slow rate of local council approvals and early evidence of house price weakness added to the poor sentiment.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) started its easing cycle in September when it cut the cash rate by 25 basis points to seven per cent.  The central bank followed the September move with a series of aggressive cuts that has lowered the cash rate to 4.25 per cent.  Housing Industry Association (HIA) chief economist Harley Dale said the annual level of housing starts had fallen to 141,700 and was expected to drop well below the 140,000 mark in the December quarter.  This was below the HIA's estimate for underlying housing demand of about 190,000 housing starts per year.  Mr Dale said recent interest rate cuts and the federal government's fiscal stimulus package was cause for optimism, but the lack of available credit was having a detrimental effect on the housing industry. 'The longer the current negative impacts of the credit crunch and general uncertainty persist, the greater the risk such a recovery fails to materialise', Mr Dale said in a statement.  NSW, Australia's most populous state, recorded the sharpest decline in dwelling unit commencements with a 25.1 per cent fall in the September quarter.  Dwelling unit commencements in Queensland (down 22.7 per cent) and Western Australia (down 20.5 per cent) also backpedalled sharply.  On a brighter note, South Australia recorded an 18.2 per cent increase, while Victoria (up 9.7 per cent) and Tasmania (up 7.6 per cent) were also in positive territory.  
