A key job advertisements measure has suffered the biggest monthly fall on record, stirring fears the global financial crisis will push up the unemployment rate.  The number of jobs ads on the internet and in newspapers fell for the seventh consecutive month in November to a near two-year low even though the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) slashed interest rates that month by 75 basis points.  The ANZ series showed metropolitan newspaper ads suffered the biggest annual slump, a decline of 42.7 per cent, since the last recession in 1991.  It was also the steepest two-month fall since the survey of print advertisements began in early 1975.  Website and newspaper job ads fell by 8.6 per cent, seasonally adjusted, in November. following a 5.9 per cent dip in October, marking a record monthly drop since internet data joined the series in 1999.  The number of total job ads slipped to a weekly average of 211,199 - the lowest tally since January 2007, with advertisements falling by an annual pace of 18.6 per cent.  It also marked a 23.3 per cent decline from April's record tally of 275,326 total job ads.  Newspaper job ads fell by 12 per cent last month to 11,767 following October's 12.1 per cent fall.  ANZ head of economics Warren Hogan said the global financial crisis was making employers reluctant to hire staff, which could push up the jobless rate.  'As a leading indicator of economic conditions in Australia, the latest job advertisements data suggest the global financial crisis has had a substantial impact on the Australian economy in the December quarter,' he said.  'This tells us that hiring intentions have been heavily impacted by the latest wave of uncertainty and financial distress caused by the global financial crisis.'  CommSec chief economist Craig James said the jobless rate was likely to rise to 5.25 per cent, from the present level of 4.3 per cent, in the year ahead.  'If the job market was to ease too markedly over the next few months, the Reserve Bank would be more inclined to cut rates decisively again,' he said.  Classified print ads fell in every state and territory, with double-digit declines in the Northern Territory (17.4 per cent), Queensland (16.6 per cent), Western Australia (14.9 per cent), Victoria (12.6 per cent) and South Australia (14.2 per cent).  Internet advertisements dropped by 8.4 per cent in November to a near two-year low of 199,433, following October's 5.5 per cent drop, and fell by an annual pace of 16.6 per cent.  Website job ads have now fallen for the fourth consecutive month, or for seven months in a row if July's flat result is included.  ANZ said Australia's unemployment rate was likely to rise rapidly over the next six months.  'If the recent weakness in job ads is sustained, it would be consistent with a contraction in total employment over the first six months of 2009,' Mr Hogan said.  'This, of course, would result in a much more rapid rise in the unemployment than we are currently forecasting.'  The dire ANZ data comes a day after the Olivier Job index showed a fall in employment for the fifth consecutive month in November, with advertising and media positions the worst affected.  Mr Hogan said massive interest rate cuts and the federal government's $10.4 billion fiscal stimulus package could help avert a recession.  Australian Bureau of Statistics labour force data for November is due on Thursday, with economists expecting the jobless rate to jump 0.2 percentage points to 4.5 per cent as 15,000 workers are retrenched.  The RBA cut rates in November by 75 basis points, to 5.25 per cent, following rate cuts in October and September.  
