Article from: AAP  Font size: Decrease Increase  : Email  : Print  THE dollar opened firmer as gains on European equity markets outweighed a weaker Wall Street to lift the appeal of the risk-sensitive currency.  At 7am AEDT, the dollar was trading at $US0.6586/94, up from Tuesday's close of $US0.6558/61.  Overnight, the local unit traded between $US0.6495 and $US0.6646.  European bourses gained overnight as a German economic sentiment index surprisingly rose to minus 45.2 points in December from minus 53.5 index points the month before, the ZEW Centre for European Economic Research reported.  The market forecast was for a reading of minus 57 index points.  The London FTSE 100 index added 2.06 per cent, the French CAC 40 index rose 1.55 per cent while Germany's Dax index gained 1.34 per cent.  This offset lower US equities as downbeat corporate news reminded investors that the American economy's troubles won't soon ease.  Commonwealth Bank manager of institutional services foreign exchange Tim Kelleher said the dollar was being influenced from equity markets.  'We are trading off the equity markets again,' he said from Auckland.  'The Australian dollar tried to get through 67 US cents yesterday, where there has been quite strong resistance to the previous attempts.  'It failed again, so the market is taking some profit.'  Mr Kelleher said Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) governor Glenn Stevens was not as pessimistic about the local economy as some others in his speech at the Australian Business Economists annual dinner in Sydney last night.  'He was slightly pessimistic about China,' Mr Kelleher said.  'But he thought in Australia things were not as bad as people were thinking.'  The Australia Bureau of Statistics (ABS) releases its housing finance report for October today, with the market forecasting a rise of 1.5 per cent after a 2.7 per cent fall in September.  Mr Kelleher said the ABS labour force report for November due for release tomorrow would have more of an impact on the local currency.  He expected the Australian dollar to trade between $US0.6500 to 0.6600 during Asian trading.  'We will go sideways ahead of the jobs report, but probably on a slightly weaker note,' Mr Kelleher said.  
