Government debt yields hover at record lows as the rescue plan for the Big Three fails in a key Senate test. NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- With a bailout plan for the U.S. auto industry in danger, government debt prices were mixed, but yields remained near record low levels. Meanwhile, lending rates between banks continued to fall, in a positive sign for the credit markets. Late Thursday night, the $14 billion rescue package for the U.S. auto industry failed to muster enough votes in the Senate to advance the legislation. The House passed the legislation Wednesday night.The stopgap bill was a temporary measure intended to keep General Motors (GM, Fortune 500) and Chrysler LLC out of bankruptcy. The potential demise of one of the Detroit Big Three puts significant numbers of jobs in jeopardy. With unemployment numbers for the United States already elevated as the economy officially fell into recession, the ramifications of a potential automaker failure had investors on edge. The U.S. automakers could still end up with government funding, however. The White House said that it will consider using money from $700B bailout to 'prevent a collapse of troubled automakers,' according to a written statement released Friday morning. But the uncertainty had investors skittish and seeking the safety of government debt. In recent weeks, demand for Treasurys has pushed prices to record highs and yields to record lows. On some of the shorter term bills, yields have actually dipped negative - meaning that investors pay the government to hold their assets. Other negative employment news weighed on investor sentiment, keeping government debt in high demand. Bank of America (BAC, Fortune 500) said Thursday it plans to slash up to 35,000 jobs over the next three years as it absorbs Merrill Lynch (MER, Fortune 500) and looks to cut expenses in the face of a weakening economy. Debt prices: The benchmark 10-year Treasury dipped 3/32 to 109-28/32 and its yield was 2.62%, even with late Thursday. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions. Two weeks ago, the 10-year yield fell below 3% for the first time since the note was first issued in 1962, and on Dec. 4, the yield on the benchmark Treasury ended at a record low of 2.55%.The 30-year bond rose nearly 3/32 to 127-27/32 and its yield fell to 3.06% from 3.08%. The record low yield for the 30-year was 3.06%, where it closed on Dec. 4 and Dec. 9. The 2-year note fell less than 1/32 to 100-29/32 and its yield fell to 0.79% from 0.80%. The 2-year note has been at record low yields. On Dec. 4, the yield on the 2-year note closed at a record low of 0.82% but then Thursday, the yield fell even further to close for the day at 0.80%.The yield on the 3-month note was 0.03%, and has been hovering around 0% for days. Yields near the zero mark on short-term bills are an indication that investors are completely risk averse, putting safety at a priority above profit. Lending rates: The overnight Libor rate held at its record low of 0.12% Friday, according to data available from Bloomberg.com. The bank-to-bank lending rate has been at record lows as central banks around the world have pushed their key lending rates down.Libor, the London Interbank Offered Rate, is a daily average of what 16 different banks charge other banks to lend money in London, and is used to calculate adjustable-rate mortgages. More than $350 trillion in assets are tied to Libor.The 3-month Libor rate fell to 1.92% from 2.0% late Thursday. Two market gauges showed some return of confidence to the credit markets.The 'TED spread' narrowed to 1.89 percentage points from 1.98 percentage points Thursday. The TED spread measures the difference between the 3-month Libor and the 3-month Treasury bill, and is a key indicator of risk. The higher the spread, the more unwilling investors are to take risks.Another indicator, the Libor-OIS spread, narrowed to 1.65 percentage points from 1.72 percentage points. The Libor-OIS spread measures how much cash is available for lending between banks, and is used for determining lending rates. The bigger the spread, the less cash is available for lending. 
