stake for $5m  08:28am   Market opens almost 1% lower  08:10am   OZ Minerals sheds 135 jobs  08:00am   07:54am   Telstra to wait and see on broadband bid  06:51am   Alleged Madoff fraud has global exposure  06:51am   Stocks fade as market mulls auto bailout  06:51am   Today's Business Headlines  The Australian dollar has opened lower after failing to benefit from a further bout of US dollar weakness during offshore trading.  At 0700 AEDT, the Australian dollar was trading at $US0.6645/50, down from Monday's close of $US0.6673/77.  During the overnight session, the local unit traded between a low of $US0.6630 and a high of $US0.6745.  The US dollar continued its decline of recent days overnight, particularly against the euro and sterling, following another round of weak US economic data and ahead of expected interest rate cuts from the US central bank.  But the weakness in the US currency did not flow through to the Australian dollar, which failed to hold above $US0.6700 reached early Tuesday morning (AEDT).  Director of currency research at GFT, Kathy Lien, said she expected the Australian dollar eventually to follow similar moves in the euro and pound.  'Bad news in the US is pretty much priced in right now and the currencies that are benefitting most are the euro and British pound,' Ms Lien said from New York.  'The Australian dollar's action has been muted. I think that this is temporary.  'The Australian dollar should slowly begin to gain strength into the first quarter of 2009 and will soon follow the euro and the pound higher.'  Ms Lien said the pound had been oversold and eurozone interest rates were at relatively high levels, leading to increased demand for both currencies.  'That's taken demand away on some of the other currencies,' she said.  US industrial production fell 7.3 per cent in the 12 months to November, the fastest decline since 1980.  The Empire State survey found manufacturing activity in the New York state contracted further in December.  The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) publishes the minutes of its December board meeting at 1130 AEDT on Tuesday.  The RBA cut the cash rate by 100 basis points, or a full percentage point, to 4.25 per cent this month.  The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) releases dwelling commencement figures for September at 1130 AEDT.  Ms Lien said currency markets would be focused on the upcoming Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting and interest rate decision, due on Wednesday morning (AEDT).  'That's really going to lead to quiet trading with a bias towards US dollar weakness,' Ms Lien said.  Markets are expecting a cut to the federal funds rate - currently at 1.0 per cent - which would make the US dollar either the lowest or second-lowest yielding currency in the developed world.  At 0900 AEDT, the Reserve Bank of Australia's trade weighted index was at 54.3, down from Monday's close of 54.5.  Have your say  Your comment  First name  Last name  Email  (not published)  Remember me  Email me if comment is published  To prevent automated programs from using this form to send spam, please enter the letters you see in the image below into the appropriate input box. The form will only be submitted if the letters match. Please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or the code won't be verified correctly.
