 Past recessions and bear markets point to late 2009 for economic growth to resume, and late 2010 to regain what weve lost on the stock markets. Thats if were lucky and Parliament gets its act together.James Bagnall , The Ottawa CitizenPublished: Friday, December 05, 2008  Canada's economy has entered a dangerous period - just as the House of Commons has become hugely distracted by a war over who should lead the country.   In the clearest signal yet that the great global financial crunch is widening, employment levels fell a higher-than-expected 71,000 in November, according Statistics Canada. It's the largest monthly drop in employment since the early 1980s, though, even with the decline, nearly 127,000 more Canadians were at work compared to a year ago.  The consensus among forecasters at Canada's major banks is that the economy will shrink about 0.5 per cent in the current quarter (compared to the third quarter, adjusted for inflation), and decline again in the first quarter of 2009. Two consecutive contractions, if that's what these turn out to be, will qualify as Canada's first recession since 1991.   By historical standards, the 1990-91 recession was comparatively mild. The one we're entering now looks weaker still, though economists may revise their thinking in light of the employment survey released yesterday.   From April 1990 to March 1991, the economy shrank 2.7 per cent over four straight quarters and the country's workforce slumped 3.5 per cent, representing nearly half a million workers.  No one is yet predicting this kind of downturn, let alone the more brutal contraction of 1982, when the number of jobs shrank 5.4 per cent. A similar slide today would result in a catastrophic loss of more than 920,000 jobs. Even the TD Bank's 'pessimistic' scenario forecasts the net loss of just 100,000 jobs in the first six months of 2009 - down 0.6 per cent from current levels.   Senior TD economist Richard Kelly says job losses will be fewer than in the 1990-91 recession because the weakness is among exporters, not in the economy as a whole. Workers directly employed in auto, lumber and other manufacturing sectors are suffering disproportionately. More than half the jobs lost in November were in manufacturing.  The economy will not falter as long as employees in government and other sectors have secure jobs and continue to spend. This is because at least two-thirds of Canada's gross domestic product depends on spending by individual consumers on things like cars, furniture and services.  However, the November employment report revealed nearly 27,000 government jobs were lost compared to the previous month. Indeed, there is an eerie feel to the way the 2008-09 recession is developing, caused in large part by its unpredictability. 'We can forecast based on present credit conditions,' says Mr. Kelly. 'What we don't know is how these will change.' During previous recessions, prognosticators could ignore the role of financing and concentrate on what people were buying - not how they were paying. Now both variables are in play, complicating the job of forecasting.  This is why TD's most recent economic projection for the first time contained two scenarios - with the pessimistic version assuming banks will further tighten access to loans and other forms of credit. TD's next forecast, due next week, is expected to revise both economic scenarios downward 'slightly,' according to Mr. Kelly.  It's not just economists who are having difficulty gauging where things are going. Canada's investment bankers and analysts have been stunned by the depth and speed of the decline in the value of stocks. The main index at the Toronto Stock Exchange fell nearly 49 per cent from June 18 to Nov. 20, when it closed at 7724.8. This marks the sixth time since the early-1980s recession that stocks have slipped more than 20 per cent, which industry insiders term a bear market.   The volatility appears shocking until you consider that nearly three-quarters of the value of the Standard &amp;amp; Poor TSX index is made of banks, energy firms and mining companies - precisely the sectors that have been hit hardest by the global financial crisis.  On average, it took one year for stock prices to tumble from a peak to trough in the previous five bear markets, and another two years to recover to the previous peak. This suggests a recovery, in stocks at least, by November 2010.  However, there is much to suggest the latest bear market is different. Two of the earlier stock declines, in 1982 and 1990, were sparked by high interest rates designed to slow overheated economies and tame inflation - fairly straightforward events. When the economy contracts, it squeezes the profits of companies that trade on the stock market. And that reduces the firms' market value.  The other four bear markets since 1980 were more influenced by financial events that triggered crises of confidence.   In the mid-1980s, investment banks took advantage of new tax rules that reduced the cost of financing corporate buyouts and mergers. This prompted aggressive entrepreneurs and executives to spend fortunes acquiring corporations. By the summer of 1987, stock prices were trading at a multiple of nearly 24 times earnings - more than double the ratio of a few years earlier, implying many stocks were over-valued.  When the U.S. Congress filed legislation in October 1987 to eliminate the tax benefits of financing buyouts, the result was a sudden, sharp drop in share prices.  In 1998, the catalyst for a bear market was the collapse in the value of Long Term Capital Management, a U.S.-based investment firm. LTCM's portfolio of securities was damaged heavily by wrong bets in the bond market, a situation exacerbated by a currency crisis in newly capitalistic Russia. LTCM's value plummeted billions of dollars and the firm had to be bailed out by more than a dozen global banks to avoid a wider collapse in financial markets. The crisis was contained.  The same cannot be said of the latest bear market, already one of the ugliest on record. The one that comes closest to matching it is the 2000-2006 tech bubble and its aftermath. Both sets of stock gains were inflated by bubbles - housing in the most recent case.  The tech crash took more than two years to reach bottom - and the recovery required more than three years. And that was with a housing bubble helping things along.   But there is no obvious catalyst to cause stocks to soar again.   The optimists maintain that once the U.S. emerges from recession, global demand for resources will rise once more, lifting the Canadian economy, its currency and its stock market. The pessimists argue that the damage done by two consecutive bubbles cannot be made right so quickly. It could be four years or more before Canada makes a complete recovery.  The clash of these views can be seen in the exceptional swings in stock markets and in sentiment about where the economy is going.   It helps to understand what is happening inside industry. Consider the case of Kalai Kalaichelvan, an entrepreneur who has seen a lot in his business career, but nothing like current economic conditions.   The former Nortel executive runs Eion Inc., a profitable Kanata firm that specializes in wireless technology it sells all over the world. The company's sales have jumped 15 to 20 per cent annually for the past few years and are forecast to rise another 20 per cent in 2009. Every fall, Mr. Kalaichelvan gathers with his top executives to analyse best- and worst-case scenarios for the year to come.   Most years, the executive team tweaks Eion's revenue prediction by 10 per cent, up or down. Not this year. Thanks to the unprecedented paralysis of global financial markets, Eion's top guns found themselves analyzing scenarios that ranged from no change in the firm's growth projection to a 50-per-cent decline.   Mr. Kalaichelvan stressed these were not predictions, simply tools to alert him to potential problems should the worst occur. 'We'll be OK,' he says, 'but the range of possibilities is incredible.' The range is large because the people who want to buy Eion's products must consider whether spending money on new technology will leave them more vulnerable. If they need money in future, for instance, will they be able to draw on lines of credit from their bank?  Customers are tightening the terms of payment on their orders. The ones who used to pay Eion every two weeks for their goods, have stretched their payment schedule to one month in order to preserve cash. Every time Eion bids to supply a new customer, Mr. Kalaichelvan and his team must think carefully about the cash commitment involved in winning such an order.   At their recent retreat, Eion's executives examined new strategies for reducing manufacturing costs, renegotiating contracts with suppliers and exploring fresh markets.  Multiply this experience by tens of thousands of businesses, and you have some idea of why there's so much uncertainty.   A few more unknowns add to the angst. Will Barack Obama succeed in reinvigorating America's economy by injecting trillions of dollars? Or will the U.S. sink into a deflationary funk, its industry reluctant to buy Canada's resources and manufactured goods for years to come?  Will the Harper government move quickly to offset any decline in consumer spending in Canada by cutting taxes further and investing in bridges and highways?  Difficult as it is to believe now, the recession will end one day. Interest rates and gas prices are sharply lower than they were in the summer, putting significantly more cash into people's pockets. The Canadian dollar, too, has returned to levels that should allow Ontario's exporters to become more competitive.
