CONSUMER expectations for inflation have fallen to a five-year low as fears about the economic slowdown grow, a survey shows. The Melbourne Institute survey found for the first time in the study's history that most respondents do not expect prices to rise.  MI research fellow Sam Tsiaplias said a growing number of people were also now expecting deflation, when prices actually fall.  The MI poll of 1200 consumers showed a median inflation expectation of 2.5 per cent in December, a big drop from November's 3.3 per cent level.  It was also the lowest inflationary expectation since December 2003.  Dr Tsiaplias said worries about the Australian economy, and the latest round of massive interest rate cuts, were reducing concerns about inflation. 'Notwithstanding the fourth rate cut in as many months, it appears the prospect of slower economic growth is dominating consumer expectations,'' he said. 'There's a slowing economy: that's the reason interest rates are coming down so much so they're interrelated.''  Only 48.6 per cent of respondents in the MI's December survey expected prices to rise. It is the first time most people surveyed have not expected prices to rise since the MI survey started asking people in 1995 about rising prices.  In November 61.7 per cent of people expected prices to rise while in July, 81.7 per cent of consumers surveyed forecast rising living costs.  The proportion of consumers expecting prices to fall has risen for three consecutive months, with 9.5 per cent tipping cheaper prices in December, compared with six per cent in November.  Dr Tsiaplias said the growing number of consumers expecting deflation had reduced the proportion of respondents predicting that inflation would fall within the Reserve Bank of Australia's (RBA) two to three per cent target band.  In December, 6.9 per cent of respondents expected inflation to fall within this bracket, down from 9.5 per cent in November. 'Surprisingly, that fall is because people are giving negative inflation numbers,'' Dr Tsiaplias said. 'Because of that, the proportion expecting inflation to be two to three per cent is smaller.''   The latest decline in inflation expectations came about after the Reserve Bank slashed official interest rates in December by 100 basis points, taking the cash rate to a six-and-a-half-year low of 4.25 per cent.  Since September, the RBA has cut interest rates by 300 basis points, reversing the dozen rate rises between mid-2002 and early 2008.  The RBA does not expect inflation to return to the top of its target until late 2010, but the central bank's forecast is based on inflationary pressures taking longer to ease rather than the start of deflation. 
