Further interest rate cuts and falling petrol prices should help kick-start a weak market for lending finance, an economist says.  The value of personal and commercial commitments fell in October, Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) figures issued on Monday show.  Lending for personal purposes fell 2.1 per cent in October, while commercial financing was three per cent lower for the month.  Commercial financing was down for the fourth month in the past five, and was 24.25 per cent lower year-on-year.  CommSec equities economist Savanth Sebastian said an uncertain global environment and the prospect of domestic recession had kept borrowers on the sidelines.  'The extent of the prolonged borrowing strike is clearly highlighted by the fact that new lending commitments have fallen for seven out of the last eight months and are still down by over 20 per cent on a year ago,' he said.  He said the four successive monthly interest rate cuts by the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) could tempt consumers and businesses to begin borrowing again.  The RBA has cut the cash rate by cumulative three percentage points since beginning its recent easing in September.  The central bank eased rates by one percentage point in October after a 25 basis point easing the month before, in an effort to stimulate the economy.  Subsequent RBA cuts in the cash rate, 75 basis points in November and another 100 points this month, to 4.25 per cent, were not reflected in the ABS data.  'It will take time, with rate cuts normally taking five to six months to filter through, ' Mr Sebastian said.  He said one of the recent drivers of the Australian economy, business investment, had been scaled back significantly over the past year.  'While there is no new (commercial) lending going on, businesses are drawing down on existing facilities, with the usage of credit limits at 12-year highs,' he said.  Housing finance should improve because of lower interest rates and the boost to the federal government's first home owners grant, Mr Sebastian said.  'For first home buyers, the clock is ticking as they have only another six months before the additional grants run out,' he said.  'It will certainly support the entire housing sector.'  Finance for owner-occupied housing rose 2.4 per cent in October and lease financing was up 3.7 per cent.  Mr Sebastian said consumers could lift their spending and borrowings with the savings made from lower fuel prices, which had dropped from $1.70 a litre in late July to around $1 at present.  'The one price that consumers can monitor is petrol,' he said.  'There is a strong co-relation between petrol prices and rising consumer sentiment.  Mr Sebastian said households were saving more than $70 a month from the drop in fuel prices since the highs in late July.  He said he expected petrol to be 90 cents a litre by the new year.  
