By Daniel Dickson STOCKHOLM, Dec 9 (Reuters) - Sweden's Riksbank is expected to cut its key interest rate by half a percentage point at its next meeting in February, a Reuters poll showed on Tuesday. If that cut should materialise, the repo rate would match the record low of 1.50 percent reached in June 2005. Thirteen of 21 analysts polled saw the Riksbank cutting the repo rate by 50 basis points to 1.50 percent. One analyst forecast a 25 basis points cut while the remaining seven believed rates would remain unchanged. The central bank last week slashed its main interest rate by a record 175 basis points to 2.0 percent and said it expected rates to stay around that level in the coming year. The cut was a far bolder move than expected, although economists said still lower rates would be needed to revive the economy. Economists' median forecast called for rates to bottom out at 1.0 percent before rising back to 2.0 percent over the next 12 months. But the mean averages from the poll told a slightly different story, with rates seen bottoming out at 1.25 percent and staying near there for the rest of the 12-month period. Handelsbanken analyst Anna Raman expects rates to reach a 1.0 percent trough. 'We see very low economic activity ahead, lower than we've seen since the beginning of the 1990s. We expect very low inflation with a bottom of 0.2 percent for CPI in September,' she said. Swedish headline inflation recorded its biggest slowdown in nearly 15 years in November -- to 2.5 percent year-on-year from 4.0 percent rise in October -- according to data on Tuesday. It was the first time since October 2007 that inflation crept within the central bank's target range -- 2 percent with a cushion of 1 percent on each side. But after many months in which authorities fretted about containing inflation, now economists expect further price declines and a sharply lower annual rate. Sweden fell into recession in the third quarter and economic figures have been consistently weak in the fourth as the global economic crisis has worsened. Following a near three-year hike, the Riksbank has cut rates by a total of 2.75 points in the past two months to mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis. 'Today's inflation figure could mean the Riksbank will cut in February.  They may on the other hand be careful not to get into a situation they've been in before, with too low rates,' said Erik Penser Chief Economist Sven-Arne Svensson, whose main scenario is for unchanged rates in the coming year. Action Economics, Bank of America, BNP Paribas, Commerzbank, Danske Markets, Deutsche Bank, DnB NOR Markets, 4Cast, Fortis Bank, Goldman Sachs, Handelsbanken, IDEA Global, JP Morgan, Nordea, Erik Penser, RBS, SBAB, SEB, Swedbank, Sydbank, UBS and Ohman contributed to the poll. (Additional reporting by Fanny Modin; editing by Stephen Nisbet) Keywords: SWEDEN RATES/ (daniel.dickson@thomsonreuters.com, +46-8-7001163, Reuters Messaging: daniel.dickson.reuters.com@reuters.net) COPYRIGHT Copyright Thomson Reuters 2008. All rights reserved.. 
