 -- FUTURITY FIRST Insurance Group (FFIG), a new nationwide, independent career agency insurance organization launched in January of 2008, has made impressive strides building its network of community-based branch offices, its best-in-class portfolio of traditional insurance products, and the infrastructure and resources necessary to support its branch managers and agents, reports Edward Berube, President and CEO of FFIG. The company is the first life insurance start-up since 1998 to launch an effort to build a full-scale, national distribution organization using private equity capital. According to Berube, FFIG has developed a unique, independent strategy to focus on segments of the business that most insurance companies have moved away from over the last 30 years: middle market, career agency, and traditional life, health and annuity products. 'The company's mission is to provide the middle income market with the product choice, objective advice and professional service that the high net worth market has enjoyed for years; and to provide FFIG career agents with a competitive, multi-company portfolio of insurance products as well as the sales, marketing, training, and benefits found at the very best career companies,' Berube explains. To achieve that mission and execute its strategy, FFIG assembled a top flight executive management team with expertise in distribution, product and financial management, marketing, field training, business processing and compliance. To date FFIG has made significant progress in three main areas: Branch Development, Product Portfolio, and Field Support Infrastructure. FFIG has hired experienced branch managers in metropolitan areas that cover Chicago, Houston, Phoenix, Atlanta, Orlando, Nashville, Louisville, Cleveland, Fort Wayne and Portland, ME, with new branches opening soon in other locations across the United States. During this time, the company has also secured contracts with a select group of leading product manufacturers, including Genworth, John Hancock, Lincoln Financial Group, AIG American General, Mutual of Omaha and United Health Group. In addition, FFIG has designed and rolled out proprietary initiatives in prospect development, sales process, manager and agent training, business processing and 'on-boarding.' 'We are confident these initiatives will set FFIG apart while establishing a new standard of agent support in the insurance and financial services industry,' says Berube. About FUTURITY FIRST Insurance Group (FFIG) First Class Insurance Solutions for Working Class Families and Business Owners FFIG (www.futurityfirst.com) is the first nationwide, independent career agency distribution organization in the country specializing in the financial security and retirement needs of middle income families and business owners. This market segment, according to LIMRA, the industry's foremost marketing and research organization, is one of the most underinsured and underserved in the US today. Media Contact: Susan Bumstead Chanley Email Contact 781-587-0115 
