MELBOURNEThe U.S. Federal Reserve has agreed to lend AIG up to US$85 billionAn AIG Life (Australia 'We're a separate legal entity registered and operating in AustraliaTreasurer Wayne Swan 'But nevertheless, because there could be flow-on effects, APRA (Australian Prudential Regulation Authority) is continuing to talk to the local subsidiary,' Swan told lawmakers in Canberra Wednesday. 'The regulators are doing everything that they possibly can to ensure that the events internationally have a minimal impact on policyholders, be they general insurers, or be they the life insurance component. That is what APRA is doing as we speak.' Since the collapse of HIH Insurance Ltd. - Australia's biggest corporate failure - in 2001, APRA has tightened prudential standards in changes which came into effect in 2006.Australia's federal government is also considering protecting consumers in the wake of the global credit crisis by establishing a financial claims scheme that gives depositors of banks and policyholders of insurance companies quick access to funds should a financial institution fail.Swan confirmed the scheme legislation has been approved by Cabinet, and has bipartisan support. It is expected to be introduced to Parliament in the current spring session.The potential collapse of AIG has prompted local insurers to outline their exposure to the group.Insurance Australia Group Ltd.AIG Life underwrites over one million life insurance policies held through industry pension (superannuation) funds, including Health Super and REST superannuation. The general insurance arm offers mainly corporate insurance and is among the top 10 insurers in the country.Jetstar, the budget airline offshoot of Qantas Airways Ltd. 'We continue to monitor current events, but it remains business as usual with respect to our existing commercial arrangement with AIG,' a Jetstar spokesman said in a statement.REST Chief Executive Damian Hill 'We sought and received confirmation from AIG that it continues to satisfy ( regulatory) requirements and things like claims will continue to be paid as per usual,' he said. AIG's Australian operations employ around 900 staff. -By Susan MurdochClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http: www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=BB07S3gOH0a%2FA3rShDugPQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day. 
