www.portraitsoftware.com - Portrait Software US Contacts: Hepzi Fonseca, 617-457-5223 Hepzi.fonseca@portraitsoftware.com or For Portrait Software Jacqueline Sagl, 978-265-3663 jsagl@comcast.net or UK Contact: Kieran Kilmartin, +44 01491 41 6780 Kieran.Kilmartin@portraitsoftware.com Portrait Software, a leading provider of next generation marketing software, today announced that Norsk Rikstoto, an organization dedicated to promoting equine sport in Norway, has selected Portrait Campaign Manager(TM) , Portrait Quadstone Analytics(TM) and Portrait Self-Service Analytics(TM) to deliver highly personalized, targeted and automated intelligent communications with its customers across multiple channels including SMS, email, eSurveys and the Web. 'Norsk Rikstoto is undergoing a fundamental transformation of its business and key to that is the way that we communicate and interact with our customers. We strongly believe there is a significant untapped potential in this area,' said Line Hofsaeth, CRM manager, Norsk Rikstoto. 'Portrait has demonstrated a capability to quickly deliver next generation marketing solutions that supports our desire to change the way Norsk Rikstoto is perceived within Norway. Portrait's Campaign Manager combined with Portrait analytics solutions provides the foundation for us to deliver the changes we require over the coming years.' Norsk Rikstoto evaluated the Portrait solution among a number of competitive technologies which were all required to provide a live proof-of-concept. In less than a week, Portrait demonstrated the impact the combination of Portrait Campaign Manager and Portrait's analytics solutions can have on re-engaging customers who have not engaged with the company for over 100 days. The speed at which Portrait was able to execute and the user friendly graphical user interface (GUI), which enabled untrained employees to begin using the Portrait solution on day one, were differentiators for Portrait among the competitive pool of technology solutions. Through Portrait's sophisticated targeting and direct delivery of messages through multiple digital channels to a target group of customers, the targeted group became re-engaged with Norsk Rikstoto and were stimulated to respond at a rate 214% higher than the control group. Portrait Campaign Manager will help Norsk Rikstoto achieve operational efficiencies through the easy design and execution of multi-stage customer dialog. This allows organizations to engage customers and prospects in creating personalized dialogs through each customer interaction. Portrait Customer Analytics is tightly integrated with Portrait Campaign Manager to ensure that the right messages are targeted at the right customers through the right channels. Together the two create a powerful marketing automation solution that brings customer analytics to the forefront of the marketing strategy and simplifies the outbound campaign management process. Easy, Integrated, Multi-channel Campaign Management Portrait Campaign Manager empowers marketing departments to drive one-to-one personalized customer campaigns that are optimized and automated for the customer lifecycle, maximizing the value of existing and future customer relations - across all marketing channels. Portrait Campaign Manager enables automated outbound marketing campaigns for sales, service and feedback management which are highly customized for the individual. -- Manage multi-channel, multi-tracked campaigns, in one place -- Respond faster to customers with event-triggered marketing -- Define and automate customer life-cycle best practices -- Achieve mass personalization of customer communications -- Deploy centralized marketing activity tracking and reporting -- Connect to all your customer data, without duplication The Portrait Campaign Manager solution goes beyond traditional campaign management, converting traditional marketing campaigns into powerful customer dialogs. Portrait Campaign Manager supports two-way communication, a key to effective customer management. Among the channels supported are direct mail, e-mail marketing, enabling web response via customer pages, online questionnaires and telemarketing dialogs. Additionally, Portrait's integrated marketing automation suite contains tools for modeling customer dialogs in an intuitive, graphical interface. About Norsk Rikstoto Norsk Rikstoto, with revenue surpassing NOK 3 billion in 2007, is an independent, industry driven foundation established 24th of September 1982 by Det Norske Travselskap (The Norwegian Trotting Association) and Norsk Jockeyklubb (The Norwegian Jockey club). Norsk Rikstoto is the sole consticcionaire for betting on horses in Norway. The foundation has supervisory control of all totalizator activity, and also oversees the financial dispositions of the Norwegian horse racing industry. Norsk Rikstoto strives through its daily operations to contribute to strengthening equine sport and horse breeding in Norway. About Portrait Software Portrait Software enables B2C companies to drive sales, reduce customer attrition and optimize marketing spend with a next-generation marketing suite. Our integrated solutions empower marketers to automate engagement with targeted individuals and, strategically map delivery of the right message, at the right time, across all marketing and service channels. The Portrait suite seamlessly integrates leading-edge, easy-to-use analytics that enable powerful, event-driven--and highly personalized customer campaigns. Customer-focused organizations benefit from being able to conduct two-way, intelligent dialogs with individual customers, and to build stronger, more profitable customer relationships while maximizing ROI from customer-focused programs. Our 300 + customers include industry-leading organizations in customer-intensive sectors. They include Merrill Lynch, US Bank, Lloyds TSB, Nationwide, T-Mobile, Telenor, Ziff Davis, Fingerhut, Bank of Ireland, Bank of Tokyo and Fiserv CBS Worldwide. For more information on Portrait Software, please visit: www.portraitsoftware.com (C) 2008 Portrait Software. Portrait Software and Portrait Campaign Manager are trademarks of Portrait Software. All other names are trademarks of their respective owners. Sporting organization experiences 214% increase in marketing campaign response during evaluation phase 
