The insurance industry markets annuities as fail-safe investments, and consumers pay extra for that protection. But last week's collapse of American International Group, the nation's largest insurer, has shaken confidence in what stands behind annuities and other insurance contracts. 'Annuities are sold with all kinds of guarantees implying that nothing can go wrong. The AIG situation is a perfect example of why that is not so,' said Craig Carnick, a financial planner in Colorado Springs. With a fixed annuity, a customer hands over his or her nest egg and the insurer promises to pay a fixed amount, typically until the customer dies. Another more popular product, variable annuities, invests in stocks and bonds, which can rise and fall in price. Although variable annuities can lose value, many contain an insurance wrapper that promises at least the initial investment will be paid out upon death. Annuity salespeople, working on commissions of 7 percent and higher, have aggressively pitched them as safer alternatives, Carnick said. AIG would have failed last week absent an $85 billion credit line from the Federal Reserve, Carnick said, adding that consumers can't count on a bailout of every insurer. Colorado regulators counter that AIG's individual insurance subsidiaries would have survived even if the parent company didn't. 'The AIG financial companies took on more risk than they could handle. But AIG's ownership of state-regulated insurance companies was not part of the risk,' said state Insurance Commissioner Marcy Morrison. AIG owns 71 state-regulated insurance entities, but only 44 do business in Colorado. All of the AIG subsidiaries are solvent and able to fully pay claims, Morrison said. Some consumers might not even be aware they are dealing with AIG. Of the 44 firms, only eight carry AIG in their names. Another five use American International, according to the Colorado Division of Insurance. The division examines the financial health and reserves of insurers operating in the state quarterly. 'Those reserves could not be touched by AIG,' Morrison said. There is also an industry group that steps in when a life- or health-insurance company becomes insolvent. The Life and Health Insurance Protection Association of Colorado represents more than 1,000 insurers operating in the state that have agreed to bail one another out and pay premiums to meet shortfalls. But their coverage isn't unlimited. Life-insurance benefits are covered up to $300,000 and basic health-insurance claims up to $500,000.
