Manulife Financial Corp., moving to reassure investors nervous about its links to teetering insurer American International Group Inc., said late Tuesday that it has $343-million of investments and derivatives linked to AIG. Speculation had intensified about Manulife's exposure, along with that of Great-West Life, because the two firms had not responded Tuesday to questions about it, while rival Sun Life Financial Inc. disclosed on Monday that it has $334-million (U.S.) in Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bonds.Manulife, in a release late Tuesday, said that in addition to the exposure to AIG, it had $395-million of bonds and derivatives related to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which filed for bankruptcy on Monday, and $41-million of exposure to Washington Mutual. Manulife said the exposures in total represent 0.5 per cent of the company's $164-billion in assets. In avoiding the perils of many other parts of the capital market, we made the decision to invest in what were deemed to be highly-rated, sophisticated and regulated financial institutions, said Donald Guloien, Manulife's chief investment officer and the CEO-designate. While these developments are extremely disappointing, to date we have avoided the worst problems in the credit markets and our track record remains exemplary. The relatively small exposures will likely be viewed as good news by the market, especially if Manulife is also successful in buying businesses from AIG as it tries to raise cash. The ideal outcome for [Manulife] would be one in which the company's exposure to AIG and [Lehman] is modest (no more than $300-$400-million to each) and the company successfully bids for AIG's annuity business or certain Asian businesses, Genuity Capital Markets analyst Mario Mendonca wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.BMO Capital Markets analyst John Reucassel said in a note to investors that Manulife may hold as much as $1.36-billion in debt sold by American International Group Inc. and three other troubled financial institutions, according to a Bloomberg report. Separately, a spokesman for Fairfax Financial Holdings confirmed Tuesday the Toronto-based insurance conglomerate holds credit default swaps on AIG. The swaps are essentially bets that AIG's financial condition will worsen, and have been rising in value. Fairfax had made numerous similar bets on financial institutions, a move that has proved profitable as the credit crunch has played out.
