Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRESCHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- As investors wait to hear from American International Group Inc. (AIG) about plans to sell prime assets and raise capital, analysts say a number of bidders could emerge.According to a report in the Wall Street Journal, the insurance giant intends to sell its auto insurance and asset-management businesses, and is considering a sale of its aircraft leasing business. The sale of any of these assets would attract intense buyer interest.The New York-based insurer has not yet commented on the reports. Rob Haines, insurance analyst at CreditSights Inc., believes the reason AIG has not yet brought investors up to date with its plans is that everything has happened so quickly that the company is still in negotiations.'Obviously, they are trying to sell some units,' he said. 'They have to get in front of the story.'Continued turmoil in the financial markets caused AIG shares to fall as much as 70% early Monday. The stock was down 47% at $6.41 recently, following news that the state of New York would allow AIG to access up to $20 billion in capital from its subsidiaries to cover daily operating needs. About $15 billion in market value has been wiped away Monday.Monday's swoon follows a 30% share-price decline Friday that ended with Standard &amp;amp; Poor's warning that it might downgrade AIG's credit ratings by one to three notches from its current double-A-minus rating if it doesn't raise more capital.For AIG, 'the real issue is who can write a check quickly,' said Roger King, an airlines analyst with CreditSights Inc.He called International Lease Finance Corp., AIG's aircraft leasing business, a good company that some potential buyers could buy without having to finance the deal, which could be a key consideration.ILFC, the second-largest aircraft lessor behind GE Commercial Aviation Services in terms of fleet size, is a powerhouse in the commercial aerospace industry. The company's earnings have remained strong even as its parent company's have suffered, and despite the troubles plaguing airlines.Hefty Price Tag SeenSome leasing industry experts said that a purchase of ILFC would likely require $10 billion to $15 billion upfront. That hefty price tag could eliminate some potential buyers.General Electric Corp. (GE), ILFC's closest competitor in aircraft leasing, 'could obviously write a check,' said King. That said, GE has seen a sharp deterioration in investor sentiment lately as investors increasingly view the conglomerate as a financial-services company.Some of the Persian Gulf states with an interest in aviation could potentially be interested, industry observers said.Another potential buyer could be Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRKA, BRKB), said Haines at Credit Sights. An industry publication called the Insurance Insider reported that Berkshire chief Warren Buffett was in discussions to help bail out AIG.Aircraft manufacturers Boeing Co. (BA) or Airbus, a unit of European Aeronautic Defence &amp;amp; Space Co. (5730.FR), could potentially be interested, though financing the purchase might be 'a little harder to do,' King said. ILFC is the biggest customer for both of the aircraft manufacturers.Officials from GE, Boeing and Airbus weren't immediately available to comment. Berkshire declined to comment.Given the likely difficulty for some potential buyers to finance a large acquisition given current market conditions, some speculate that a private-equity buyer, rather than a strategic buyer from the aerospace industry, is most likely.Strong world-wide demand for new aircraft means that aircraft leasing companies have a bright future, although near-term growth could be challenged by the current tight credit markets. Both GECAS and ILFC have relied on their parent companies for financing assistance.Over the next 20 years, Boeing expects global air traffic to grow about 5% per year on average, fueled by economic growth around the world and the need to replace older aircraft.Currently, U.S. airlines lease about 35% of their fleets. That percentage is expected to grow to as much as 50%, as cash-strapped carriers look to replace aging aircraft, which burn more fuel and are more costly to maintain than new aircraft.AIG said in June that ILFC was not for sale, and would remain a 'core holding' of AIG, but higher financing costs due to a parent-company downgrade would hurt.Strong PerformerILFC has performed well through the mortgage crisis, and it reported $624 million in operating income in the first half of the year, compared with a company net loss of $13.16 billion, or $5.11 a share.AIG's auto insurance business could also draw interest from deep-pocketed bidders.Last year, AIG had big plans for expanding its autobusiness when it paid $749 million to buy up the remaining 39% it did not own of online auto insurance specialist 21st Century.The plan then was to expand 21st Century's vision for marketing auto insurance online. The unit may find eager buyers among auto insurers that have run into stagnant growth as dozens of auto insurers chase after the same customers.Allstate Corp. (ALL), the largest publicly traded auto and homeowners insurer, suggested last month that it was in the market to pick up some acquisitions.'Acquisitions have been and will continue to be an option to create shareholder value,' said Thomas Wilson, Allstate's chief executive, during the company's second-quarter earnings conference call in August.AIG's annuities unit is part of its life insurance and retirement services business. In the past few years, life insurers have been beefing up their annuity businesses in order to sell them as retirement savings vehicles for Baby Boomers.-By Lavonne Kuykendall, Dow Jones Newswires; (312) 750-4141; lavonne.kuykendall@dowjones.com-By Ann Keeton, Dow Jones Newswires; (312) 750-4120; ann.keeton@dowjones.comClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http://www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=aprnwPJ%2Bteb%2FqWP%2B8tohNQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.(END) Dow Jones NewswiresSeptember 15, 2008 14:34 ET (18:34 GMT)
