HOUSTON - (Business Wire) Nationwide, the countrys sixth-largest property and casualty insurance company, announced today a $275,000 grant from the Nationwide Foundation to support Red Cross relief efforts for the 2008 Hurricanes. The announcement brings the Nationwide Foundations disaster relief donations for 2008 to a total of $1 million. The Nationwide Foundation continues their generous support of American Red Cross disaster relief efforts with their gift of $275,000 for the Hurricanes of 2008, said Jeff Towers, chief development officer for the American Red Cross. This gift has brought their total giving to $1 million in 2008 for disaster relief, including a gift of $250,000 to the Central U.S. Floods and Tornadoes, and an annual gift to support national and local disaster preparedness and response efforts. The Foundations support of our disaster responses as well as their leadership on a number of our chapter boards is outstanding. These tragedies hit very close to home, said John Raybuck, Nationwide regional vice president. Ike has had a profound impact on the lives of thousands of our own associates and many customers of Nationwide. Were hopeful that other corporate citizens with the means will choose to support the American Red Cross in helping people in our region rebuild their lives. Nationwide has received more than 14,000 claims in Texas and has claim representatives and agents actively assisting customers in response to the damages caused by Hurricane Ike. To assist with the claims process, Nationwide has set up three mobile units staffed with Nationwide professionals. The units are currently taking drive-in and walk-in claims from 7 a.m.-7 p.m. Locations are: Lowe's of W Houston, TX 15555 FM529 Houston, TX 77095 Lowe's of E. Houston, TX 6161 E Sam Houston Parkway N Houston, TX 77049 Lowe's of SE Houston, TX, #1128 1000 Gulfgate Center Mall Houston, TX 77087 Nationwide also provided humanitarian relief to Ike victims in Houston. Teams brought in truckloads of much-needed ice, bottled water, diapers, baby formula, crackers, granola bars, soap, toilet paper, and bug spray. Nationwide strongly encourages customers to listen to the advice of local authorities and avoid flooded or treacherous areas. Policyholders with storm damage should call the Nationwide claims hotline at 1-800-421-3535 or contact their local agent. The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and counsels victims of disasters; provides nearly half of the nation's blood supply; teaches lifesaving skills; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a charitable organization not a government agency and depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its humanitarian mission. For more information, please visit www.redcross.org or join their blog at www.redcrosschat.org. The Nationwide Foundation is an independent corporation funded by contributions from Nationwide companies, which include Nationwide Insurance and Allied Insurance. Founded in 1959, the Nationwide Foundation has committed more than $190 million since 2000 to help nonprofit organizations in communities where Nationwide associates and their families live and work. Nationwide, based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the world, with more than $161 billion in assets. Nationwide ranks 108th on the Fortune 500 list. The company provides a full range of insurance and financial services, including auto, homeowners, life, health, commercial insurance, administrative services, annuities, mutual funds, pensions and long-term savings plans. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com. Nationwide and the Nationwide Framework are federally registered service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. On Your Side is a service mark of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. NationwideElizabeth Stelzer, 614-249-1025stelzee@nationwide.comorMike Switzer, 614-249-4092switzem1@nationwide.com 
