Details are slowly leaking out about how close  came to following Lehman Brothers into bankruptcy, only to have the  bail it out with an $85 billion loan.    represented the Treasury Department and the Fed in the deal, according to the firm. The team was led by partners Bradley Smith and Marshall Huebner, the firm says. The lawyers declined to comment on the deal when reached by . Two sources with direct knowledge of the deal say  represented AIG and  represented AIG's board of directors. A spokesman for Sullivan officially declined comment. A Simpson spokeswoman did not immediately return calls or e-mails seeking confirmation of the firm's role. Sources say H. Rodgin Cohen led the Sullivan team, capping off a busy two-week period in which he advised both Fannie Mae and AIG in their government bailouts. Cohen did not return a call or e-mail seeking comment. , a blog focused on management liability issues. The author, attorney Kevin LaCroix of , analyzes several aspects of the government bailout, including the interest rate AIG will have to pay: a whopping 11.31 percent. If AIG draws the full $85 billion the Fed has offered, it will be on the hook for $9.61 billion in interest. LaCroix also looks at the question of whether the sale of AIG's non-core assets could even cover the $85 billion loan; the Wall Street Journal's Deal Journal quotes an analyst who estimates AIG's non-insurance assets could raise about $42 billion. And what, LaCroix asks, does the U.S. government intend to do with its 80 percent interest in AIG? Will it be involved in AIG's major business decisions? As LaCroix puts it: 'Left unanswered in the Fed press release is the question of what this development means for AIG's continuing business operations. The primary goal of the Fed facility is the orderly sale of AIG's businesses. What does this imply about the future of AIG's operating companies? And what will be left of AIG after the 'orderly sale'?' This article first appeared on  blog on AmericanLawyer.com. 
