NOVATO, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Property / casualty insurance executives Sally B. Narey and Greg Tacchetti have been appointed general counsel and chief administrative officer, respectively, at Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, announced Mike LaRocco, president and chief executive officer. Both Narey and Tacchetti will be senior vice presidents.Narey will lead the legal operation, responsible for corporate legal governance, legal and regulatory insurance issues, government and external affairs, and corporate litigation. She will also support Allianz of America on legal matters including governance, ethics and investigations.Tacchetti has responsibility for several critical functions, including management information, communications, metrics and compliance. He also leads efforts for Fireman's Fund on key initiatives with Allianz, parent of Fireman's Fund, such as customer focus and sustainability. 'Sally and Greg are high-caliber industry leaders and their considerable expertise and skills will help us achieve our goals as we seek to improve and grow in the coming years,' said LaRocco. Narey has over 20 years of legal experience in the insurance industry, most recently serving as the property and casualty general counsel and senior vice president at USAA. Prior to that, Narey worked as senior vice president and deputy general counsel for Chicago-based CNA Insurance Companies for seven years. She has also served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary for the National Council on Compensation Insurance.Earlier in her career, Narey worked in Washington D.C. as the general counsel for the U.S. Small Business Administration and held a variety of positions with legislators and the U.S. Office of Consumer Affairs. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Iowa and received her Juris Doctorate from the University of Minnesota.Tacchetti joins Fireman's Fund from SAFECO where he most recently served as senior financial officer for that company's property and casualty operations. Tacchetti also held other senior leadership positions at SAFECO during his seven-year tenure, including field planning and underwriting. Prior to joining SAFECO, he worked for GEICO in operational and product line positions for seven years.Tacchetti holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and political science from the University of Maryland and an executive MBA from the University of Washington.About Fireman's FundFireman's Fund Insurance Company is a premier property and casualty insurance company providing personal, commercial and specialty insurance products nationwide. It is rated 'A+' by Standard &amp;amp; Poor's Rating Services. Fireman's Fund is a member of the Allianz Group (NYSE: AZ), one of the world's largest providers of insurance and financial services. Allianz ranks as the most sustainable insurer in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index based on its economic, social and environmental performance. For additional information, visit www.firemansfund.com.Source: Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
