Now that Maurice "Hank" Greenberg's hopes of saving American International Group have been dashed, the insurer's founder moved Thursday to sell some of his stock in the company on the open-market.Two days after the insurer signed a definitive agreement to set up an $85 billion credit line with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for which it will surrender 80% of its equity to the government, Greenberg said in a regulatory filing the stock sales may "materially decrease" his holdings in the company. He holds roughly 11.0%.American International Group (nyse: AIG - news - people ) shares tumbled 8.8%, or 29 cents, to close at $3.02 on Thursday. The stock has plummeted 94.8% since the beginning of the year.William Blair analyst Mark Lane said no matter what investors think about the value of AIG fundamentally the U.S. government's bailout of the insurer is not good for their core business. "When AIG signed the definitive agreement it eliminated any hope of saving its current shareholders from significant dilution," Lane said. "I think Greenberg was in denial. The definitive agreement was the final nail in the coffin." Greenberg was AIG's largest shareholder before it agreed to a federal bailout on Tuesday that will give the government 80.0% ownership. (See " .") As AIG teetered on the edge of bankruptcy, Greenberg, who was the chairman of the insurer for nearly 40 years until he was forced out in an accounting scandal in 2005, seemed to be hoping to try to take the company back. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Sept. 16, he said he continued to retain Perella Weinberg to advise on the business, operations and financial condition of AIG. He also said he may pursue a variety of options, including acquisitions of assets, loans or other financings, or further investments. (See " ?") Greenberg's company C.V. Starr could also seek to acquire control, get representation on the board or participate in a take-private, according to the text of the Sept. 16 filing. It was signed by Greenberg and representatives of C.V. Starr and affiliates. A 13-D filed by Greenberg in January does not mention any of those options.But after AIG signed the agreement with the Fed on Tuesday, AIG Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Edward M. Liddy said, 'AIG made an exhaustive effort to address its liquidity needs through private sector financing, but was unable to do so in the current environment. This facility was the company's best alternative. We are pleased to have finalized the terms of the facility, and are already developing a plan to sell assets, repay the facility and emerge as a smaller but profitable company. Importantly, AIG's insurance subsidiaries remain strong, liquid and well-capitalized.' Greenberg's AIG stake has shrunk in value from around $20 billion when he left the insurer in 2005 to about $1 billion, based on Wednesday's closing price of $3.31 a share.Reuters contributed to this article. 
