-With the bailout of insurance giant AIG and volatility in U.S. financial markets, there have been a growing number of inquires among insurance producers about the safety of the policies they offer their clients. To ease this anxiety, International Medical Group , Inc. (IMG ) has been providing insurance producers with guidance on industry growth for the future. "Any time an insurance carrier runs into financial difficulty, it hurts the industry as a whole," said Jeff Nasser, Senior Vice President of Marketing at IMG. "It's imperative that when you're deciding whose products to offer your clients, you do your research. Look for a company with an extensive product portfolio, offering comprehensive benefits and experienced administration. Whether you're writing your first piece of international business or have years of experience, it's essential to work with a company that provides the international business support and market insight needed to exceed your clients' expectations." According to Nasser, it's also vital to ensure that your provider is backed by the financial stability of an established international insurance carrier. "Each insurance provider has an insurance carrier that backs its programs," said Nasser. "Credit rating agencies like Standard &amp;amp; Poor's, A.M. Best and Moody's analyze the financial strength, credit ratings and future financial outlook of insurance carriers providing you with the knowledge you need to make sound, confident decisions. "For example, IMG's insurance carrier is Sirius International, a White Mountains Re company. It holds insurance ratings of A (Excellent - A.M. Best), A- (S &amp;amp; P) and A3 (Moody's). All three ratings, according to the respective ratings agencies, indicate Sirius has the ability to meet its ongoing insurance obligations and has a low likelihood of a rating change due to stable financial and market trends." Nasser also stated that the opportunity for continued growth in the international market is enhanced by working with a strong, self-sufficient insurance provider committed to quality, whose primary focus is on the client.About International Medical Group, Inc. (IMG) International Medical Group is a worldwide leader in designing, distributing and administering global health care benefits. IMG's international reputation for excellence has been established by providing medical, life and disability insurance products to individuals, families and groups in more than 170 countries.Since 1990, IMG has served over 500,000 clients worldwide including vacationers, business executives, missionary groups, entertainers, Fortune 500 companies, schools and universities, professional marine crew, expatriates and local and third country nationals. IMG is based in Indianapolis, Indiana USA. Its companies also include IMG Europe Ltd, Akeso Care Management , iTravelInsured , and IMG-Stop Loss SM. IMG's family of companies is committed to meeting the unique needs of its international clientele. For more information about IMG, please call 1-866-368-3724, e-mail info@imglobal.com or visit www.imglobal.com. 
