Nearly Twice As Many Labrador Retrievers Insured Than Any Other DogBREA, Calif., Sept. 25 /PRNewswire/ -- True to its name, the Labrador retriever keeps coming back. Year after year, the Labrador retriever is America's most popular insured dog breed. Veterinary Pet Insurance (VPI), the nation's oldest and largest provider of pet health insurance, recently analyzed its insured database to find the top 10 insured dog breeds of 2007. The Labrador retriever was first, while the golden retriever came in a distant second followed by the Yorkshire terrier.According to registration data from the American Kennel Club (AKC), the Labrador retriever has also been the most commonly registered breed for the past 17 years. The breed is the only one to occupy the same position (No. 1) on both the VPI and AKC lists. While the AKC's registration numbers indicate a large amount of registered beagles (No. 5), dachshunds (No. 7), poodles (No. 8) and miniature schnauzers (No. 10), none of these breeds were among VPI's 10 most commonly insured breeds.'Labrador retrievers have a strong reputation as loyal, obedient dogs that do well with children and adapt easily to their surroundings,' said Dr. Carol McConnell, vice president and chief veterinary medical officer for VPI. 'Whether it's the affection of a Yorkshire terrier, the protectiveness of a German shepherd, or the playfulness of a pug, each of the most commonly insured breeds has qualities that lend themselves to a meaningful human/animal bond that pet insurance can help to protect and preserve.'VPI also calculated the average amount its policyholders spent on non-routine veterinary care for each of the top insured breeds in 2007. The medical care costs (the average annual submitted claim amount) appear directly related to the size of the breed, with larger breeds costing more than smaller ones. The disparity of expense is most likely due to the fact that larger breeds can require larger doses of medication. While claimed amounts can total thousands of dollars depending on the condition and treatment, the highest average claimed amount for non-routine medical care in 2007 was $296 for German shepherd dog owners.About Veterinary Pet InsuranceVeterinary Pet Insurance Co./DVM Insurance Agency is the nation's oldest and largest pet health insurance company. Providing pet owners with peace of mind since 1982, the company is committed to being the trusted choice of America's pet lovers and an advocate of pet health education. VPI Pet Insurance plans cover dogs, cats, birds and exotic pets for multiple medical problems and conditions relating to accidents, illnesses and injuries. Optional Pet WellCare Protection(SM) for routine care is also available.Medical plans are available in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. More than 1,600 companies nationwide offer VPI Pet Insurance as an employee benefit. Policies are underwritten by Veterinary Pet Insurance Company in California and in all other states by National Casualty Company, an A+15 rated company in Madison, Wisconsin. For more information about VPI Pet Insurance, call 800-USA-PETS (800-872-7387) or visit petinsurance.com.SOURCE Veterinary Pet InsuranceCONTACT: Brian Iannessa of Veterinary Pet Insurance, +1-714-989-5662, or mobile, +1-714-981-2056, biannessa@petinsurance.com; or Rachel Paap, +1-310-806-6418, rpaap@riester.com, for Veterinary Pet InsuranceThis is a news service of Thomson Business Intelligence Service 2006. This content is for your personal use only, subject to Terms and Conditions. No redistribution allowed.
