CHARLOTTE, N.C. --American International Group Inc. will be allowed to use $20 billion of assets held by its subsidiaries to provide cash needed for the troubled insurer to stay in business, New York Gov. David Paterson said Monday.The move comes as AIG reviews its operations and discusses alternatives with outside parties, reportedly including Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc., to shore up its business amid concern the world's largest insurer could need billions of dollars to strengthen its balance sheet.Paterson asked New York state insurance regulators to essentially allow New York-based AIG to provide a bridge loan to itself. The governor has also asked the head of New York's insurance department to talk with federal regulators about providing an additional bridge loan to AIG. 'AIG still remains financially sound,' Paterson said. The move will allow AIG to use those assets as collateral to borrow cash to fund its day-to-day operations, Paterson explained.It also helps AIG by 'giving them what they need most, which is time,' said Keefe Bruyette &amp;amp; Woods analyst Cliff Gallant, who added that the relaxation of insurance regulations is 'unprecedented.' Typically, a state insurance commissioner's priority is to protect the policyholder, and that includes making it very difficult for an insurer to access the funds that are used to pay claims.AIG could face significant claims from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, which have battered the Gulf Coast. But 'AIG is a big company, and I would expect they will be able to meet their claims,' Gallant said. 'Those events do not cause an immediate cash problem for the company,' he added. If an insurer cannot pay its claims, the state's insurance fund, which is backed by other insurance companies that do business in the state, would help pay off policyholders. 'If anyone's been put at risk, it's the other insurance companies who do business in the state,' Gallant said. AIG has been battered over the past year by billions of dollars of losses tied to deterioration in the mortgage and credit markets.Shares of AIG fell $7.38, or 60.8 percent, to close at $4.76 Monday. They had been down as much as 71 percent to $3.50 before Paterson's comments.The Fed has asked Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to work with JPMorgan Chase &amp;amp; Co. about a possible short-term loan to keep AIG in business, said a person familiar with the request who could not speak publicly because talks were still ongoing. The loan could be for about $70 billion, the person said.JPMorgan is a financial advisor for AIG.Calls to Goldman Sachs were not immediately returned.Treasury spokeswoman Brookly McLaughlin declined to comment when asked about the possible financing efforts.Also, the insurer was said to be in 'rescue' talks with Buffett.Berkshire Hathaway spokeswoman Jackie Wilson said Buffett was not available Monday to comment on the AIG-rescue reports. Typically, Berkshire does not comment on any deals before they are completed.On Friday, Standard &amp;amp; Poor's warned that it could cut AIG's credit rating by one to three notches because of concerns that AIG will have difficulty accessing capital in the short term.
