Business &gt; Asia &gt; Taiwan The China Post news staff and agenciesWednesday, September 17, 2008 TAIPEI, Taiwan -- The Financial Supervisory Commission (FSC), alerted by a stock market tumble in Taiwan as well as in other parts of the world set off by the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., rushed to calm investors yesterday, saying it was unlikely all of the NT$80 billion local banks have invested in Lehman would be lost.The financial regulator made the statement after the local benchmark stock index TAIEX fell nearly 300 points, or 4.89 percent, to close at 5,756.59, the lowest since April 2005. According to the FSC, Taiwan financial institutions hold around NT$40 billion in Lehman stocks and debt while wealth management clients have a further NT$40 billion. The regulator called on the industry to be attentive to the Lehman situation and protect the rights of their own investors. The FSC further said Lehman Brothers, once the fourth-largest U.S. investment bank, still has more assets than debt, with the firm listing US$613 billion of debt and US$639 billion of assets when filing for bankruptcy.In addition, several of Lehman's subsidiaries are still operating normally, the FSC said.As a result, it is likely Taiwanese investors will recover at least some of their investments from the liquidation of the assets, the FSC predicted.Moreover, the FSC forecasted that there would not be a heavy sell-off of shares to meet margin calls in the local stock market, saying that the 137 percent ratio of share value to margin loans for local securities remained above the 120 percent minimum. The ratio reflects how much of a share's value has been borrowed by those who own the shares. The 137 percent ratio means that borrowing on margin accounts for 73 percent of the value of local shares, still acceptable to local financial institutions, the FSC said. The FSC said it has asked the Taiwan Stock Exchange Corporation (TWSE) and the Taiwan Futures Exchange Corp. (TAIFEX) to keep a close eye on local markets.Separately, the commission said operations at Nan Shan Life Insurance Co., the Taiwan unit of American International Group Inc., are continuing as normal after AIG asked the U.S. Federal Reserve for $40 billion in financing.Huang Tien-mu, director-general of FSC's Insurance Bureau, said that his bureau is closely monitoring the latest developments in AIG's efforts to resolve its financial troubles. Huang pointed to Nan Shan Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of AIG and Taiwan's second largest insurer, as an example of an AIG-affiliated company that is profitable and operating normally. Nan Shan's clients, he said, will not have their rights jeopardized, but local media reported yesterday that Nan Shan has seen a substantial number of clients who have demanded to end their policies with the insurer.
