Every day seems to bring more news of troubled financial firms. Brokerage Merrill Lynch (NYSE:MER - News) was forced to sell itself. Investment bank Lehman Bros. folded. Insurer American International Group (NYSE:AIG - News) is twisting in the wind. And money market funds broke the buck and were shuttered.  How does such turmoil affect your accounts and policies?Investors. There's nothing you can do about stock prices falling.But what happens to your portfolio if your broker fails? Can your holdings disappear?Generally, no. Brokerages are required to keep customers' securities and cash separate from their own.If your firm loses its own money, any stocks, bonds and mutual funds you hold there should be intact. That typically has been the case.Generally, your holdings are held by a firm acting as custodian. If your broker is not a firm that holds assets, it makes arrangements with another firm offering custody services.If a custodial firm runs into trouble, it might be acquired by another brokerage. Assets may move to the new firm.In other cases, though, a failing broker will liquidate. If that happens, securities regulators work out an asset transfer to another custodian.This process is not always painless. Your holdings might be frozen for months, keeping you from selling stocks that are falling.In some cases brokerage firms or their employees have committed theft or fraud. So investors' securities are not available after a failure.If that happens, investors are not covered by federal insurance. But they do have coverage from an industry group, the Securities Investor Protection Corp.This coverage won't reimburse investors for lost securities' value. But it can pay claims resulting from a broker's missteps.So if your eligible investments are missing after a brokerage failure, you can collect from the SIPC. The limit is $500,000 per customer, including up to $100,000 in cash.If you have multiple accounts at a brokerage, you can have multiple coverage. If you have an individual account, a joint account and an IRA at the same firm, each of those three accounts is covered up to $500,000.If you want to be extra safe, keep investments below $500,000 per account at any one brokerage firm.SIPC protection is rarely needed. In 37 years since its founding, SIPC has paid just over $508 million in claims to 625,000 investors.Policyholders. The situation is similar for consumers if their insurance company goes under. Protection comes from guaranty associations in each state. Guaranty associations are the last line of defense for policyholders. Before seeking help from an association, policyholders should look to an insurer and its assets.Insurers must pay claims from individual policyholders before claims from other creditors, says Kansas Insurance Commissioner Sandy Praeger. If an insurer's assets aren't enough to pay off policy claims, state guaranty funds serve as a safety net. 'The guaranty fund will provide coverage, subject to certain limits,' Praeger said.Insurance firms operating in a state pay fees to fund its guaranty associations. If necessary, associations step in to act on behalf of failed insurers.Say you have a homeowner or auto insurance claim. Your insurance company is unable to pay.Your claim goes to the state guaranty association for property and casualty insurance, which judges it and pays as your insurer would have.There's generally a cap on such claims. Caps vary by state but $300,000 is the norm.States have separate guaranty associations for life and health insurance. You will be covered by the guaranty fund in the state where you live now. Your residence when you bought the policy won't matter.There are caps on coverage. The norm for life insurance benefits is $300,000 per insured life.What if you have a life insurance claim that's larger than your state's cap? You can submit a claim for the excess amount as a general creditor of the failed insurance company.You may get money as the insurer's assets are liquidated. Still, that can take years. To avoid such hassles, you might spread life insurance coverage among several insurers.Ailing AIGAnd what if you have a policy with an AIG company?AIG's 71 U.S.-based insurers are financially sound and able to pay claims, Praeger says. The parent company's woes stem from its financial holding company's investments in collateralized debt instruments. 'If you have a policy with an AIG insurance company, they are solvent and have the capability to pay claims,' Praeger said.
