The China Insurance Regulatory Commission said it aims to ensure the protection of insurance policyholders? benefits by keep watch over the latest global financial crisis. The commission said it is prepared to implement suitable policies if warranted in the wake of American International Group Inc.'s near bankruptcy. The CIRC said it has been evaluating the impact on the Chinese insurance of the crisis brought on by U.S.-based AIG, the world's largest insurance group. The commission said it will also actively implement relevant policies to avoid risks in the insurance sector, maintain healthy and steady development of the Chinese insurance market and protect benefits. AIG had established AIG General Insurance Co. China Ltd. and AIA China in the country, through which it operates property and life insurance businesses in various districts. At present, these companies have stable operations and normal business development, said the regulator in a statement. AIG also said in a statement that its life insurance, general insurance and retirement service businesses, including its extensive Asian operations, continue to operate normally and remain adequately capitalized and fully capable of meeting their obligations to policyholders. While AIG is pursuing alternatives to increase short-term liquidity in the parent company, those plans do not include any effort to reduce the capital of any of its subsidiaries or to tap into Asian operations for liquidity, said AIG in a statement. To further protect policyholder benefits and effectively conduct risk management evaluation for the insurance sector as well as manage the assets of insurance companies which file for bankruptcy, the CIRC recently established a new company to manage the country?s insurance protection fund. The new company, called China Insurance Protection Fund Company Ltd., will raise, manage and operate insurance protection funds, monitor and evaluate risks in the insurance sector, participate in risk management, manage assets and operate other businesses approved by China's State Council. The protection fund will be allowed to invest in bonds issued by central government-backed companies and financial institutions and central bank bills, as well as bank deposits and treasury bonds, according to the CIRC. CIRC Vice Chairman Wei Yingning was appointed chairman of the protection fund, while Zeng Yujin, a senior officer from the CIRC?s finance ministry, has been named president. 
