NEW YORK - (Business Wire) Fitch Ratings has affirmed the long-term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) and short-term IDR for First Commonwealth Financial Corporation (FCF) and its bank subsidiary, First Commonwealth Bank at 'BBB' and 'F2', respectively. The Rating Outlook is Stable. FCF's ratings are as follows: --Long-term IDR affirmed at 'BBB'; --Short-term IDR affirmed at 'F2'; --Individual Rating affirmed at 'B/C'; --Support affirmed at '5'; --Support Floor affirmed at 'NF'. A complete list of the ratings of the related entities is included at the end of this release. FCF has demonstrated continued stability through what has been a difficult operating environment for the banking industry. The affirmation reflects improved operating performance, asset quality metrics which compare favorably to similarly rated peers and a tangible capital position that supports its current rating. The company has successfully reduced funding costs over the first half of 2008, allowing for an expansion of the net interest margin; leading to improved profitability. Additionally, a positive trend in fee income is helping reduce FCF's reliance on spread income. Nonperforming assets (NPAs) experienced a modest decline from year-end 2007. The company continues to work through previously disclosed credits that are a significant contributor to NPA ratios. FCF has been opportunistic during 2008 in capturing a higher market-share of commercial loan origination in its footprint, due to the reduced availability of capital at some larger institutions. Consequently, capital ratios have exhibited a negative trend, although the level is generally appropriate. While capital fully supports the existing rating, the historically high level of dividend payout and the aforementioned strong asset growth have put downward pressure on capital ratios. It is expected that loan growth will slow for the remainder of 2008; however, dividends paid to common stockholders exceeds net income in 2007 and first quarter 2008. The Stable Rating Outlook assumes that capital ratios will remain steady, and at least inline with mid-year 2008 reported levels, going forward. The Stable Outlook reflects Fitch's belief of continued stability with operating performance and asset quality. Fitch will continue to monitor regulatory capital ratios; further declines to capital, especially in the face of profitability or asset quality weaknesses may have negative rating implications. The following ratings of FCF's related entities are affirmed. The Rating Outlook is Stable. First Commonwealth Bank --Long-term IDR affirmed at 'BBB' --Long-term deposits affirmed at 'BBB+' --Short-term IDR affirmed at 'F2' --Short-term deposits affirmed at 'F2' --Individual rating affirmed at 'B/C' --Support affirmed at '5' --Support floor affirmed at 'NF' First Commonwealth Capital Trust --Preferred stock affirmed at 'BBB-'. Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site. Fitch Ratings, New YorkEric Newell, +1-212-908-0769Joe Scott, +1-212-908-0624David Weinfurter, +1-212-908-0336 (Media Relations) 
