NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Regional banks are likely to suffer from a failure of American International Group Inc. (AIG). The trouble for investors is estimating how bad that suffering would be.Regional banks have extensive exposure to AIG, a massive multinational insurer, since many of them hold AIG's debt within their investment portfolios, while still more purchased a type of debt insurance called credit default swaps, or CDS, from AIG. Should Wall Street and the Federal Reserve fail to agree on a solution to bail out AIG, regional banks could see the insurer default on its debt bonds, and quickly throw into question the value of the CDS it sold.An AIG bankruptcy 'would create a significant problem for the regional banks,' says Jaime Peters, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. 'Most regional banks' exposure to AIG is much larger' than their exposure to the now-bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH).AIG has issued billions in dollars of debt, especially since the onset of the mortgage-fueled financial crisis, and much of that debt 'is sitting in the investment portfolios of many institutions around the globe,' says Jeff Davis, an analyst at FTN Midwest, a unit of First Horizon National Corp. (FHN). AIG's debt at one point carried very safe ratings, making it a classic choice for banks looking to fill their bond portfolios with stable investments.But figuring out which regional banks holds outsized holdings in AIG debt, and are therefore most vulnerable to its failure, is not simple.'The difficulty is we don't exactly know what's in most securities portfolios' at banks, says Tim Coffey, an analyst at FIG Partners.What's more, the market for credit-default swaps, which banks use to hedge the risk carried by loans they make to commercial borrowers, is notoriously opaque. The swaps are, in essence, contracts between two parties where one firm - in this case, the insurer - agrees to repay the other firm - a bank - should a specified borrower default on debt that it owes.Banks use many similar kinds of agreements, which are known generically as ' derivatives.'Wachovia Corp.(WB), for example, held $23 billion worth of derivatives in its trading portfolio, as of June 30, according to a recent filing from the company.A spokeswoman for the company did not immediately provide details about how much exposure, if any, Wachovia has to AIG.According to a recent filing from Washington Mutual Inc. (WM), for example, the 'gross positive fair value' of the West Coast thrift's derivatives portfolio was $1.79 billion as of June 30. Its net exposure to the credit of opposite parties in those transactions - which is known as 'counterparty risk' - was $405 million.Washington Mutualsaid in a release Monday that it has 'no trading exposure to AIG.'AIG is a major player in that market, says Davis, and has entered into untold numbers of these contracts around the globe. 'The issue with AIG is that it is so massive,' says Davis.-By Marshall Eckblad, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4306; marshall.eckblad@ dowjones.comClick here to go to Dow Jones NewsPlus, a web front page of today's most important business and market news, analysis and commentary: http:// www.djnewsplus.com/al?rnd=Ft66e%2BXvbMLa7fjXiGgXbQ%3D%3D. You can use this link on the day this article is published and the following day.(END) Dow Jones Newswires 09-16-081533ET Copyright (c) 2008 Dow Jones &amp;amp; Company, Inc.
