-Fitch Ratings has downgraded and removed from Rating Watch Negative two classes of notes issued by Rivendell Loan Fund, LLC. The following rating actions are effective immediately:--$28,750,000 Class A Notes to 'B' from 'BB+';--$18,750,000 Class B Notes to 'CCC' from 'BB'.The rating actions reflect the application of methodology outlined under Fitch's updated Market Value Structures (MVS) criteria, published April 18, 2008. In addition, the ratings consider the sustained market value decline in the secondary leveraged loan market that has increased the vulnerability of these classes to a deteriorating credit environment. Fitch continues to be concerned about pricing volatility in leveraged loan secondary markets.The downgrade of class A notes to 'B' reflects its distance-to-trigger (DTT) metric relative to the advance rate ranges published in Fitch's updated MVS criteria. The DTT is now below 7% according to Fitch's most recent calculation, with the portfolio categorized into 73% Category 2 assets, 21% Category 3 assets, and 6% Category 4 assets. The downgrade of class B notes to 'CCC' reflects its subordinated position to class A notes coupled with a negative net asset value (NAV) coverage level based on Fitch's calculations. Although there is negative NAV coverage, the class B rating indicates that there is the potential for this class to receive principal and interest payments.Rivendell Loan Fund, LLC is a synthetic total rate of return collateralized loan obligation (CLO) with a market value termination trigger. The transaction closed on July 12, 2006 and is managed by Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company.The rating on the class A notes addresses timely payment of interest and repayment of principal by the stated maturity date. The rating assigned to the class B notes addresses the likelihood of the payment of amounts to holders of the class B notes sufficient to produce a yield to maturity on the class B notes of not less than the class B interest rate, if held to the stated maturity, but does not address the timing of payments.Additional transaction information and historical data are available on the Fitch Ratings web site at www.fitchratings.com.--'Fitch Update: Application of Revised Market Value Structure Criteria to TRR CLOs' (May 15, 2008)--'Fitch Downgrades 24 Classes from 9 TRR CLOs on Secondary Loan Price Declines (Feb. 20, 2008) --'Fitch Downgrades 28 Classes from 10 TRR CLOs (Feb. 12, 2008)Fitch's rating definitions and the terms of use of such ratings are available on the agency's public site, www.fitchratings.com. Published ratings, criteria and methodologies are available from this site, at all times. Fitch's code of conduct, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, affiliate firewall, compliance and other relevant policies and procedures are also available from the 'Code of Conduct' section of this site. 
