 The trickle of details on Lehman Brothers' creditors became an avalanche yesterday as companies endeavoured to dissipate fears among investors about their exposure to the failed investment bank. Following Lehmans' weekend collapse, the ramifications for other businesses started to come to light, with the merger of a subsidiary of British healthcare and financial software specialist Misys with US group Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, potentially thrown into jeopardy. Misys management said last night it was 'unable to get certainty' as to whether Lehmans could meet its commitment to a $305m (171m) term and revolving credit facility deal struck earlier this year and required for the merger. 'Misys has already commenced the process of identifying other funding alternatives and is in discussions with several debt providers', the group said. It has postponed an extraordinary general meeting in which the merger will be put to shareholders to October 6.Landsbanki analysts said: 'While this must be the worst two weeks so far to go shopping for a $305m facility, we assume one is available at some price and imagine the deal should still go through'. Shares in Misys, which also has JPMorgan Cazenove and Deutsche Bank as advisors, fell 12pc to 137p. Meanwhile it emerged that by value, 62pc of underlying Lehman creditors are based in Asia. Lehman is expected to apologise to its Asian investors through its regional headquarters in Tokyo. Japanese banks, including Aozora and Mizuho Corporate, top the list of unsecured bank lenders to Lehman with respective loans of $463m and $382m.Swiss banking giant UBS said that it did not expect 'the total cost of closing out its exposures to Lehman Brothers to exceed $300m'. UK insurer Aviva said it had 'minimal' equity exposure but a total debt exposure of 270m, however it expected its loss from its Lehman debt holding to be lower.German insurance heavyweights Allianz and Munich Re said their total exposure amounted to about 400m and 350m respectively, while French counterpart Axa has estimated its exposure to Lehman debt at 300m. JP Morgan's insurance analyst team, headed by Duncan Russell, said in a note that among major European insurers, 'no-one has enough single exposure to threaten solvency or dividend. However it is clear that this is a very difficult environment and counterparty and systemic risk is at a high', the note said. French bank Crdit Agricole said Lehman Brothers was a counterparty in collateralised market positions with an estimated cost of 'less than 250m' (198m). The Paris-based bank also said it did not hold any bonds issued by Lehman but had credit exposure to it of 'less than 20m'. London-based GLG Partners, one of Europe's biggest hedge funds, said that last week it had transferred most of its funds' remaining positions on Lehman to other prime brokers and the residual exposures would be immaterial.Australia's leading four banks revealed a combined exposure of close to A$400m (178m), including ANZ with A$152m, followed by the Commonwealth Bank, which said it was owed 'less than A$150m' by Lehman group companies.
