The Australian share market has staged a turn-around since the announcement of the bailout for insurance giant American International Group (ASX: AIG.ax) .Stocks on Wall Street rose on rumours the company would be saved, and local stocks were also higher in early trade.But at 2.45pm (AEST), the ASX 200 was down 1 per cent and the All Ordinaries index had dropped 46 points to 4,754.The Australian dollar was also down and trading at 79.49 US cents.After refusing to step in to rescue investment bank Lehman Brothers, the US Federal Reserve announced it would bail out AIG from bankruptcy, saying its failure could exacerbate the fragility in financial markets and reduce household wealth. AIG had been scrambling to get together a reported $100 billion in short-term loans to survive, and the Fed will lend it $106 billion to help the insurer meet its obligations. 'Too big to fail'The chief economist at nabCapital, Robert Henderson, says the Fed chose to save AIG and not Lehman because it is too big to fail. 'The other thing that's important about AIG is that it's relevant to the man in the street in America, because it's a large insurance company,' he said. 'There would have been a direct effect on high street in America, whereas, of course, Lehman Brothers' failure has some pretty negative influences on financial markets and on New York, but outside of Wall Street the implications for it were very much second round. 'There's fundamental differences there between the two organisations and clearly the Fed was not prepared to run the more systemic risk which surrounded the possible downfall of AIG, which wasn't really there with the Lehman Brothers scenario.' Ken Morgan from AIG's Australian branch says local policy holders should not be concerned. 'For us it is very much business as usual,' he said. Under the terms of the bailout, the US government will take an 80 per cent equity stake in AIG and will be able to veto the payment of dividends to shareholders.Stocks on Wall Street added more than 1 per cent overnight on speculation about talk of the deal, one day after posting their worst fall in seven years.On Australian markets, several of the banks have turned negative today, with National Australia Bank 1.6 per cent lower.But the Federal Treasurer, Wayne Swan, says Australian banks only have a modest exposure to the turmoil in the US banking sector. 'Well, certainly there are modest exposures but I'm advised by APRA, which is the regulatory body, that those exposures are modest, that our banks are well-capitalised and well-positioned to cope with the fallout,' he said. 'But they're not immune either and there will be many other companies across the country that in some way or other have some exposures.'Mining boom Meanwhile, a measure of the future performance of the Australian economy has found the strength in the mining sector is masking a sharp slowdown in other parts of the economy. The Westpac-Melbourne Institute leading index indicates economic activity will grow by 3.7 per cent in the next few months.That is below its long-term trend rate of 4.2 per cent.But Westpac chief economist Bill Evans says it would be worse if Australia did not have a mining boom. 'What we're seeing is a story of a divided economy ... and a lot of that is mining,' he said. More Quotes and Company Information:NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK LIMITED (ASX: NAB.ax)WESTPAC BANKING CORPORATION (ASX: WBC.ax)National Australia Bank Limited (NZX: NAB.nz) 
