Some have called it the Great Depression 2, or at least an attempt to stave off the Great Depression 2.Others have said it represents the worst possible financial situation the United States has faced since that first Great Depression. While no one, as of yet, is predicting the return of soup lines that go on for blocks, some are starting to wonder what is next.But how did we get here? What caused these financial markets to go so wrong so quickly?Understanding the answers to these questions involves getting a grasp on how many businesses are interrelated and how the decisions of a few can start a chain reaction.RelationshipsBusinesses do not operate in a vacuum. They have certain partners and those partners understand that each element is vital to the other.For example, McDonald's has contracts with beef producers for its ground beef. If something were to happen and McDonald's suddenly went under, that would obviously affect the beef producers. But it would also affect the beef producers feed supplier, the transportation supplier and a number of others.This is also true in the financial markets and even applies to the home mortgage you probably have.MortgagesSo how does this all work together? If you own a home, at one point you probably approached a bank about a home mortgage. If the loan was approved, this usually signaled a long-term relationship between the bank and borrower.This is no longer the case.Now, within minutes of the loan closing, it can be bought by another company. In many cases, it goes to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to be repackaged with other loans in the form of mortgage-backed securities and sold on the secondary mortgage market.It is not necessary to understand the ins and outs of mortgage-backed securities, just to know they are groupings of mortgages sold as a package.The companies that are in trouble now - such as Bear Stearns, Lehman and Merrill Lynch - were heavy investors in the secondary mortgage market and bought up many of these mortgage-backed securities.So how did insurance companies like AIG get involved? They, and others like them, were responsible for insuring the mortgages. The same was also true for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who insure mortgages.The CrisisFrom 2001 to 2006, things were going very well for the mortgage industry. Interest rates were at all-time lows, the housing market was booming, and everyone was in a state of near euphoria. In some ways, it was like the Roaring 20s right before the stock market tanked.Then the bottom fell out.During that half decade, banks made loans to certain individuals who should maybe not have been receiving mortgages. Often, this was done as a variable rate mortgage with increased payments after a few years.When those individuals could not pay back the loan, it defaulted and went into foreclosure.Normally, this is not a huge problem. However, with the housing industry slumping, there was no way mortgage holders would get back what they had invested. More was owed on the homes than the current market said they were worth.Therefore, companies who invested heavily in these mortgage-backed securities suffered heavily.While the conventional wisdom was that there is safety in numbers, these companies were finding out there could be devastating effects in those numbers if many started going under at the same time.The BailoutWith these companies going under at alarming rates, the federal government is poised to step in and take control, buying bad mortgages and getting these liabilities off the books of these troubled companies.As much as $700 billion could be spent to help out these markets. However, such a measure could substantially weaken the dollar in overseas markets, as this would be nothing more than the government spending money to buy loans which will likely never be repaid.If the government fails to initiate a bailout, a number of the nation's most storied financial companies will likely cease to exist. The losses of banks and individual investors will be more substantial than they already are and a recession becomes nearly a certainty. A depression even becomes much more likely.While the government may have no choice, it will lead to further hardships. It will likely increase the budget deficit and lead to higher oil prices, as the dollar is further weakened.It may be, in this situation, there are no good answers, only ones that are not quite as bad.---Ken Black is a Times-Republican writer. His 'Breakdown' column appears Sundays.
