SYDNEY, Sept 11 (Reuters) - Bad debt charges for Australia's top banks are expected to triple to more than A$7 billion ($5.6 billion) this year, as more borrowers struggle to repay loans and asset values fall as the economy slows. Top lender National Australia Bank and No. 3 Australia and New Zealand Banking Group are considered most vulnerable, banking analysts say; NAB because of its structured debt and UK exposures, and ANZ for its exposure to commercial lending and to New Zealand, whose economy has quickly deteriorated. 'When you got a cyclical decline in the economy, all banks will end up being hit,' ABN AMRO banking analyst Jarrod Martin said. Australia's Big Four banks had been largely unscathed by the first year of the global credit crisis apart from facing higher funding costs, unlike their peers in the United States and Europe which have been forced to writedown billions of dollars due to slumping home mortgage markets. Australian banks still rank among the strongest in the world interms of asset quality, all carrying AA-ratings from major rating agencies. But as the credit crunch drags into its second year, both NAB and ANZ have warned profits could slide amid mounting credit-related losses, and analysts say further writedowns could be announced between now and the next results announcements in October. Australian banks end their financial year on Sept 30. At the same time, Australians' appetite for new loans is waning with growth in mortgages falling to its slowest pace in 20 years in July and sales of new homes sliding. 'We've still got to see the credit shock, the real credit cycle come through,' said one portfolio manager, who asked not to be identified. Investors are most worried about NAB and ANZ, pointing to NAB's exposure to collateralised debt obligations (CDOs), a structured debt product backed by a pool of assets. 'They all are going to have bad debt charge increases...What everyone is pointing to at NAB is the A$4.5 billion CDO exposure that they have not taken any provisions against,' said one banking analyst, who like the portfolio manager did not want to be identified due to commercial sensitivities. Citigroup has estimated that NAB and ANZ could face a further A$500 million to A$1 billion each in structured credit related writedowns. ABN AMRO has estimated bad debt charges for the country's five largest banks will triple to A$7 billion this year, from about A$2.4 billion in 2007, and rise to A$8.5 billion in 2009. While other top lenders Commonwealth Bank and Westpac Banking Corp have so far avoided any major writedowns, analysts believe there is no such thing as a safe haven bank at the moment. Commonwealth has recently been quizzed by investors over its exposure to ailing childcare services provider ABC Learning Centres, which analysts estimate at around A$500 million, and all the major banks are exposed to struggling investment group Babcock &amp;amp; Brown and many of its funds. Market watchers believe the potential writedowns have already been largely factored into the banks' depressed shares, with ANZ down around 38 percent so far this year and NAB down 36 percent, more than double the fall in Westpac, which is considered the country's least risky bank. But the shock of any new writedowns, or fears that even bigger losses may be looming, could push bank stocks lower still. 'We think further write-downs are already priced into the stock. Despite this, investors should still expect an initial reaction to any material announcement,' Citi said in a research note on NAB on Thursday. REAL WORLD PROBLEMS TO HIT While writedowns have so far related to exposure to U.S. mortgages or a relatively few domestic corporate borrowers, analysts now forecast a second wave of problems will test Australian banks. 'We still think it has got plenty of time to run...it sounds a bit like a difficult cycle, a vicious cycle,' the second banking analyst said. Analysts point to credit card related defaults, slowing consumer spending, and problems rapidly building up for Australian property developers in Queensland and New South Wales. 'The first step has been related to the credit crunch. We don't know whether we are fully through with that, but the next phase will be the real world effect of the slowing ecocomy,' Rohan Walsh, investment manager at Karara Capital said. At the end of July, ANZ warned profits would fall sharply and forecast more than A$1 billion in bad debt charges, just three days after NAB announced A$830 million in credit-related losses, citing rapid deterioration in the United States housing market. NAB and ANZ spokesmen said at this stage there were no further writedowns to add. (Editing by Kim Coghill) ($1=1.243 Australian Dollar) Keywords: AUSTRALIA BANKS/ tf.TFN-Europe_newsdesk@thomson.com ak COPYRIGHT Copyright  
