INVESTORS with leveraged share portfolios have been forced to cough up extra cash or sell stock, after being hit with a flood of margin calls this week.The Commonwealth Bank made almost 1000 margin calls to clients yesterday -- more than 20 times the average number of daily calls over the past three months. That was on top of the 1000 calls already made in the preceding days this week, as Australian shares plunged sharply in the wake of increasing panic over the state of global financial markets. Other major banks reported similar increases in margin calls as shares -- particularly in banking and insurance sectors -- were pounded in early trading after Wall Street tumbled the night before. The benchmark S&amp;amp;P/ASX 200 Index closed down 114.9 points, or 2.4 per cent, to a near three-year low of 4607 points yesterday as investors fretted over which companies would be the next to fall victim to the worsening credit crisis. Infochoice, which provides independent analysis on financial services, expects this week's purge to see even higher levels of margin calls than the share market rout in the first quarter of the year, which saw many high-profile company directors, including the backers of Allco Finance group, ABC Learning Centres' Eddy Groves and Melbourne business identity Geoff Lord, hit with massive margin calls. According to Reserve Bank of Australia data, 50,000 margin calls -- or 3.85 calls for every 1000 clients -- were made in the March quarter. By the end of June, that settled back to 1.75 per 1000, compared with 0.25 per cent for that period the year before. Margin calls are made to borrowers when the value of their investment portfolios dip below the approved gearing ratios. Infochoice research head Steven Anderson said the current bear market conditions were providing a reality check for most retail investors. 'It's fair to say that people have finally woken up and realised that markets just don't go up.' As a result, the value of margin loans had fallen from $37.7 billion in December to $31.96 billion at the end of June. However, Brian Phelps, head of investment lending at CommSec, said the current conditions were not necessarily deterring clients from borrowing money to invest in shares. He said the size of the average loan had come down to about $130,000 from $150,000 a few months ago, but the rate of new accounts being opened had not slowed. 'But they're not really activating those accounts. They're not really gearing. And we're comfortable with that ourselves.' Neither were investors particularly surprised to receive warning of an impending margin call, with 60 per cent of CommSec clients this week choosing to top up their accounts with cash. Westpac is believed to have made about 300 margin calls this week, while St George Bank, which has about 8 per cent of the margin lending market, reported that about 2 per cent of its client base would have received margin calls yesterday. 'A big day for us would be when more than 1 per cent receive a margin call,' said David Curry, general manager of margin lending at St George Bank. Since Monday, ANZ margin lending has made a moderately high number of margin calls to investors, mostly those with highly geared portfolios. National Australia bank declined to release any details about margin lending activities.
