THE Australian banking sector led the share-market savaging yesterday as the worsening global liquidity crisis raised fears of capital raisings, cuts to dividends and further provisioning against derivative losses.Global central banks last night launched a $US180 billion ($225 billion) operation to ease the credit crunch after another day of wild trading on world markets, triggered by a 4 per cent slump on Wall Street and news that US investment bank Morgan Stanley was seeking a merger partner, and that Lloyds TSB had agreed to take over the ailing HBOS in London. Australia's major banks had $6.2 billion wiped from their value and led the overall market 2 per cent lower as anxious investors focused on their ability to access capital and on their provisioning levels because of their exposure to exotic products. National Australia Bank, which slumped to an 11-year low yesterday, has been assessed as the most likely of the Big Four to raise capital or cut dividends, if impairment charges blow out. But a Macquarie Equities report said that although NAB risked a further $800 million provision, the balance sheets of the four majors as a group were in a far healthier state than a year ago. Liquidity surpluses were strong, as were capital ratios, and there were healthy provisions to cushion the impact of deteriorating credit quality. The report rates Westpac as one that is best able to deal with the current challenges of shrinking margins due to surging funding costs and a new cycle of credit losses. Commonwealth Bank had the most comfortable capital ratios and the biggest earnings buffer before ratios would be tested, while ANZ had moved quickly to cover increased risk by 'aggressive' provisioning and topping up capital. NAB, though, had the skinniest forecast tier one capital ratio for 2009, of 6.6 per cent -- at top end of its target range of 6-6.75 per cent -- and was the one most likely to require more capital. 'We believe an increase of around 25 per cent ($600 million) in impairment costs would leave the bank with little option but to reduce its dividends, or accelerate capital raising plans,' the report says. Constellation Capital portfolio manager Peter Vann agreed with the Macquarie analysis. 'I wouldn't dispute it; more writedowns by NAB would put stress on their capital levels,' he said. 'The regulator would look closely at it, and justly so.' But a NAB spokesman said yesterday that the bank was fully provisioned, although the situation was obviously under 'close review' in the current, volatile conditions. The global banking industry has already racked up $US517 billion in write-downs and credit losses, as lenders have frantically raised $US363 billion in replacement capital. NAB, like ANZ, helped preserve capital at its May half-year result by announcing it would underwrite any shortfall in investor participation in the bank's dividend reinvestment plan. However, with tumultuous recent events including the Lehman Brothers collapse, the $US85 billion bailout of insurer AIG and Bank of America's shotgun marriage with Merrill Lynch, there has been a renewed focus on the quality of NAB conduit assets. Macquarie, like other investment banks, believes NAB faces additional provisions -- up to $800 million, in its eyes -- on $4.5 billion of corporate securities held in the conduit vehicle. The prospect of more NAB impairment charges is not a new assessment, but investors needed little excuse in the current environment to cane the stock, which yesterday slumped $1.10, or 5.3 per cent, to $19.60. NAB led its peers down, as Westpac was smashed by $1.01 to $22, CBA gave up $1.02 to $40.08 and ANZ fell 55c to $15.45. Shares in St George Bank fell $1.56 or 5.17 per cent to $28.59. Bancassurer Suncorp-Metway finished 5.7 per cent down at $8.35. A NAB spokesman said the conduit assets in question were performing and held on balance sheet, not in the bank's trading book. Accounting rules therefore stipulated that any valuation process required an assessment of the level of impairment, as opposed to a mark-to-market calculation. NAB was further protected because in all but $100 million of assets of the $4.5 billion in total, the bank was the most senior debt holder, giving it the right to hold the securities until maturity. This was different to the portfolio of collateralised debt obligations in the conduit, against which NAB announced a July provision of $830 million, because the senior debt holder in that case sold out, triggering the NAB write-down. 'Every bank is holding bonds on their balance sheet and they are priced based on impairment; not a mark-to-market exercise,' the NAB spokesman said. 'At the moment, we believe we have taken the right level of provisions, but obviously we keep it under close review.' Mark Topy, an analyst at Paterson's Securities, described trading in bank shares yesterday as 'ugly'. The US Federal Reserve has made 'band aid, ad hoc measures at the moment to make sure we don't have a meltdown', he said. 'People are fleeing anything with risk which is why they're fleeing Macquarie. It's perceived as being in the eye of the storm.' 'But the sun will come up tomorrow.' 
