 Shares in Australia's major banks and insurers were pounded as investors fled risky assets in a knee-jerk reaction to Wall Street's four per cent plunge.The major lenders dropped over two per cent, with National Australia Bank (NAB) scrip finishing 5.31 per cent lower at $19.60 after falling 10.1 per cent in intra-day trade.Australia's largest investment bank Macquarie Group (MQG) was pummelled by investors, dropping 23.2 per cent or $7.88 to $26.05 after global ratings agency Standard &amp;amp; Poor's downgraded the bank's outlook from stable to negative.Macquarie's share price is 'now hostage to 'hedge fund sentiment'' wrote JPMorgan's Brian Johnson in a note to clients on Wednesday. 'While we believe the hedge fund 'short MQG' arguments do not bear closer scrutiny the fact is that the direction of MQG's share price is telling us MQG is irrevocably broken,' he wrote, adding that previous massive binges of short selling had been followed by commensurate bouts of short covering. 'We believe MQG now offers compelling value,' he wrote. Both Macquarie and NAB were shunned by US investors overnight, with their Bank of New York Mellon American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) dropping 19.73 per cent and 15.73 per cent respectively. 'Our market is in a knee jerk reaction to problems with the banks in the US and our banks are getting snowed under,' said Michael Heffernan, strategist with Austock Securities.Heavy selling on Wall Street saw all major indices drop at least four per cent, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average losing 449.36 points or 4.1 per cent to settle at 10,609.66 as credit markets seized up and investors worried about more banking failures and that the US Federal Reserve's $US85 billion loan to American International Group (AIG) was not enough.ANZ Bank's (ANZ) ADRs fell $US1.50 or 11.7 per cent to $US11.70, and Westpac's ADRs lost $US8.62 or 9.18 per cent to $US85.28. 'It's ugly,' said Mark Topy of Paterson's Securities of the local market on Thursday morning.The US Federal Reserve has made 'band aid, ad hoc measures at the moment to make sure we don't have a meltdown', he said. 'People are fleeing anything with risk which is why they're fleeing Macquarie. It's perceived as being in the eye of the storm.' 'But the sun will come up tomorrow.' 'Any negative news will be amplified,' Mr Heffernan said, adding that NAB and ANZ had a 'significantly larger exposure' to collateralised debt obligations and other exotic products than other Australian banks.ANZ shares closed 55 cents or 3.44 per cent lower at $15.45 while Westpac was down $1.01 or 4.39 per cent to $22.00 and Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) lost just $1.02 or 2.48 per cent to $40.08. 'CBA, Westpac and St George Bank are good value at these levels,' Mr Heffernan said, adding that they had excellent dividend yields. 'But some banks are to be considered when they improve.' CBA is probably benefiting from the fact they are the most conservative bank, Mr Topy said.JPMorgan and Citi have previously flagged expected write-downs of between $500 million and at least $1 billion for both NAB and ANZ.JPMorgan says NAB could face a write-down of up to $1.5 billion from its $4.5 billion worth of exposures to conduits which are currently held in the hold to maturity portfolio despite likely trading well below book value. 'This must create a potential mark to market risk for NAB of between $500 million and $1.5 billion,' JPMorgan said, adding that this would comprise the bank's tier one capital ratio.Both Citi and JPMorgan have highlighted another $10 billion in exposures faced by ANZ relating to credit insurance purchased from monoline insurers on top of the bank's $226 million exposure to beleaguered US monoline insurer ACA Capital Holdings. The majority of these counter-parties hold AAA credit ratings, Citi said.Shares in St George Bank fell $1.56 or 5.17 per cent to $28.59.But bancassurer Suncorp-Metway finished 5.7 per cent down at $8.35 over their exposure to exotic products, Mr Heffernan said. 'No-one believes what (Suncorp) management is saying over their risk exposures,' Mr Topy said. Insurers also suffered losses across the board, with QBE Insurance Group being spared the worst of the fallout and edging 1.58 per cent into positive territory at $24.50. 'QBE is perceived as a safe haven, with the lowest risk. There is a feeling they will benefit from AIG,' Mr Topy said.
