SYDNEY, Sept 26 (Reuters) - Macquarie Group Ltd, (News) Australia's top investment bank, plans to sell its margin lending business due to increased costs of funding and to focus on its core businesses. The business contributes less than 1 percent to Macquarie Group's profits. The planned sale follows Macquarie's decision earlier this year to wind back its mortgage business. Margin lending, which involves providing credit to individuals and institutions to speculate on stock prices, has gone out of favour as the cost of funding such activity soared amid the global credit crunch. Macquarie's margin loan book is estimated to be around A$5 billion ($4.2 billion) and one analyst said the sale could fetch about A$100 million. Macquarie's shares fell sharply last week on concerns about its ability to survive the credit crisis after several of its Wall Street peers struggled due to their exposure to mortgage backed securities. Macquarie shares were up 1.7 percent at A$40.0 in early Friday trading, in a firm overall market. The stock is still down about 48 percent in 2008. The sale would be managed internally by Macquarie and analysts said traditional banks such as National Australia Bank Ltd (NAB) or Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd  (ANZ) may be interested. 'In a capital constrained environment, it's difficult to sell anything,' said one banking analyst. He declined to be identified as he is not authorised to speak to media. Australia's A$32 billion margin lending business is dominated by Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd, Westpac Banking Corp and St George Bank Ltd. The three banks together have about 60 percent market share. 'It's highly consolidated market to start with, the natural buyer would be a AA rated commercial bank. So you are potentially looking at ANZ and NAB,' the analyst said. Earlier this year margin lenders Tricom Equities and Opes Prime Group were forced to scale down their operations due to increased volatility in the stock market. ($1=A$1.20) (Reporting by Denny Thomas; Editing by James Thornhill).ngCOPYRIGHTCopyright Thomson Financial News Limited 2008. All rights reserved.The copying, republication or redistribution of Thomson Financial News Content, including by framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial News.
