 LATEST: The tale of a totally crippled finance company is told in Dominion's annual accounts for the March year, which were released today after lengthy delays.Dominion directors say if they can't get a moratorium deal approved for the company then 'alternative options' - possibly receivership - will need to be considered. 'The directors anticipate this process to be resolved within the next four to six weeks from the date of the financial report,' directors said. The $108 million loss, revealed in the accounts is a staggering $117 million turnaround on what Dominion in May told the NZX and shareholders its result was for the March year. At that time it said it was taking a 'cautious view' when announcing a profit of nearly $9 million. The company subsequently paid a 1 cent a share dividend, though directors say that the major shareholders reinvested their portion of the dividend back into the company.Since June the company has frozen the $276 million owed to debenture holders and has been attempting to organise a moratorium deal. Its first proposal, put to the trustees last month was knocked back.The financial accounts show impairments of some $95.5 million on finance receivables and a write-off of $26.6 million on intangible assets.Dominion directors say this additional provisioning has put both its main operating finance subsidiaries in breach of their banking commitments with BOS International (Australia) - part of the global HBOS group - and with ASB Bank. 'The respective trustees and bankers have not at the time of finalising this annual report confirmed whether they will waive their rights to any action in terms of their deeds and facility agreements in respect of these breaches,' directors said. Auditors BDO Spicers say the outcome of Dominion's moratorium discussions with the banks and trustees are 'significant, material and pervasive' to the company's 'going concern' assumption and preparation of its financial accounts. 'In respect of the evidence surrounding the use of the going concern assumption we have not obtained all the information and explanations that we have required,' the auditors say. Because of this the auditors refused to state whether they though the accounts represented a 'true and fair view' of the company's financial position. The company's balance sheet shows total assets at $329 million, down from $485 million last year. Current liabilities are $360 million, versus current assets of just $177 million. Bank borrowings have risen to $76 million from $35 million a year ago. Shareholders funds, which were $46 million a year ago have been wiped out and are now $70 million in the negative.Directors say they have 'no choice' but to try to secure agreement for the orderly wind-down of the subsidiaries, to exceed the loan recovery estimates and look for ways to improve the return to capital note holder and shareholders. 'Based on the recover of the discounted interest, in line with loans being recovered, no further detrimental market changes and the remaining part of the unimpaired loan receivables (circa 45 percent) performing as planned, then debenture holders and banks way well be repaid in full - although there is no guarantee,' they say. 
