 By Myra Butterworth and Graham Ruddick Homeowners face a 'painful' period as the downturn in the housing market deepens, the Bank of England's chief economist has warned. Spencer Dale warned that house prices would fall still further in the wake of the stock market turmoil and the collapse of Lehman Brothers. 'I recognise that this process of adjustment will be painful for many households,' he said. 'It will also be painful for many businesses, especially those - such as house builders and estate agents - that are most directly dependent on the health of the housing market.' The Bank of England is facing the dual problem of the risk of recession and the threat from inflation - which has increased form 2.1 per cent last December to 4.7 per cent last month. The Bank's Monetary Policy Committee has kept interest rates unchanged for the past five months, with Mr Dale among those who voted to keep them at 5 per cent this month. He said the weakness in the housing market would be painful for consumers because it would force them to rein in their spending. His comments came as experts urged borrowers looking for a new fixed rate mortgage to reserve the rate with their lender before it disappears and is replaced with a more expensive deal. The cost of fixed rate mortgages is likely to go up because lenders base the price of these deals on swap rates, which have risen due to the stock market chaos. Two-year swap rates, on which two year fixed mortgage rates are based, increased from 5.14 per cent on Tuesday to 5.32 per cent on Wednesday this week.Melanie Bien, director of mortgage brokers Savills Private Finance, said: 'Since the Lehman Brothers turmoil and the HBOS/Lloyds TSB deal were was announced, swaps have jumped dramatically again by around 20 basis points. 'We expect them to continue climbing as lenders become more concerned about lending to one another and the likelihood of an imminent cut in rates - which the markets were pricing in - recedes on the back of the August inflation figures. 'We now expect fixed-rate mortgages to increase by 20 to 30 basis points in coming weeks.' A borrower would pay an extra 300 a year or 25 per month on a typical 150,000 interest-only mortgage if the rate increased by 20 basis points. Tough market conditions have helped push mortgage lending to its lowest level for three years and it is expected to fall further. The Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML), said just 21.8 billion was advanced in August. This is a 12 per cent fall from the previous month and a 36 per cent fall from August 2007. It is the lowest monthly figure since April 2005 and the lowest August figures since 2002. The group blamed the fall on the 'exceptionally low' number of people buying and selling homes, and the lower than anticipated number of home owners who are remortgaging. The CML predicted that this would keep monthly lending 'subdued' in the immediate future.Michael Coogan, director general of the CML, said: 'These figures reflect the heightened uncertainty for both lenders and consumers in the mortgage market at present. Lenders are uncertain about future sources of funding and the cost of funding, while consumers are unsure about how much further and for how long house prices will continue to decline.'
