LONDON (Reuters) - A year after missing out on the biggest ever bank takeover, Barclays showed over the weekend that it still hankers after a mega deal.By mulling a rescue for Lehman Brothers , Barclays made clear that it is alert to opportunities emerging from a deepening global financial crisis, especially those that might ramp up its Wall Street presence.In the end, it walked away as the risks proved too great, but some investors and analysts fear that despite its tight capital position, the banks action shows that it is determined to go on the offensive. 'Whilst we take the decision not to proceed as a positive, having considered a deal does highlight managements apparent unwillingness to de-lever the balance sheet,' said Alex Potter, analyst at Collins Stewart. 'We feel the continued leverage at the firm to be a negative and an issue we would prefer to see addressed,' he added. Barclays emerged as the front-runner to rescue troubled Lehman on Sunday, but it quit after U.S. regulators were unwilling to guarantee the U.S. banks trading obligations, a scenario that could have left Barclays open to unlimited losses.A swoop on Lehman would have fulfilled the goal of Bob Diamond, the American head of Barclays Capital, to boost its U.S. investment banking activity .....continued belowstartsends in one go. Diamond has made no secret of plans to grab U.S. business as U.S. rivals shrink, but in the last decade he has built BarCap into one of the leading debt market firms through organic growth.Big investment bank deals are difficult and risky and it is easier to hire bankers or teams, Diamond has said. Lehmans knock-down price made the chance to grab a strong position in equity and debt markets, M&amp;amp;A advisory or asset management tempting, however.With the credit crunch deepening and more casualties expected, other bargains could emerge for assets, teams or even whole businesses.A challenge for Barclays could be reassuring regulators that its balance sheet can support a big deal.Its core tier one capital ratio is about 5.7 percent -- higher than past levels after it raised 4.5 billion pounds from Qatar, Chinese and other investors in July, but still one of the thinnest capital cushions in Europe.The bank has lost more than $5 billion on assets tarnished by the U.S. subprime crisis and credit crunch, less than most rivals. According to the bank, this is because it has managed risk better. Lehmans collapse has also stoked fears that as a wave of its assets hit the market, Barclays and its peers face more writedowns.Barclays shares tumbled 11 percent to 311 pence by 4:30 p.m. on Monday as banks around the world were knocked by uncertainty about the counterparty trading risk left in Lehmans wake. Barclays was hit harder than most due to its sizeable overall trading position, analysts said.Barclays said it could not reach a deal on Lehman that was attractive for its shareholders, echoing its line after it refused to raise a near 60 billion euro offer for Dutch bank ABN AMRO last year, when it was trumped by a consortium led by rival Royal Bank of Scotland .LONDON (Reuters) - A year after missing out on the biggest ever bank takeover, Barclays showed over the weekend that it still hankers after a mega deal.By mulling a rescue for Lehman Brothers , Barclays made clear that it is alert to opportunities emerging from a deepening global financial crisis, especially those that might ramp up its Wall Street presence.In the end, it walked away as the risks proved too great, but some investors and analysts fear that despite its tight capital position, the banks action shows that it is determined to go on the offensive. 'Whilst we take the decision not to proceed as a positive, having considered a deal does highlight managements apparent unwillingness to de-lever the balance sheet,' said Alex Potter, analyst at Collins Stewart. 'We feel the continued leverage at the firm to be a negative and an issue we would prefer to see addressed,' he added. Barclays emerged as the front-runner to rescue troubled Lehman on Sunday, but it quit after U.S. regulators were unwilling to guarantee the U.S. banks trading obligations, a scenario that could have left Barclays open to unlimited losses.A swoop on Lehman would have fulfilled the goal of Bob Diamond, the American head of Barclays Capital, to boost its U.S. investment banking activity in one go.Diamond has made no secret of plans to grab U.S. business as U.S. rivals shrink, but in the last decade he has built BarCap into one of the leading debt market firms through organic growth.Big investment bank deals are difficult and risky and it is easier to hire bankers or teams, Diamond has said. Lehmans knock-down price made the chance to grab a strong position in equity and debt markets, M&amp;amp;A advisory or asset management tempting, however.With the credit crunch deepening and more casualties expected, other bargains could emerge for assets, teams or even whole businesses.A challenge for Barclays could be reassuring regulators that its balance sheet can support a big deal.Its core tier one capital ratio is about 5.7 percent -- higher than past levels after it raised 4.5 billion pounds from Qatar, Chinese and other investors in July, but still one of the thinnest capital cushions in Europe.The bank has lost more than $5 billion on assets tarnished by the U.S. subprime crisis and credit crunch, less than most rivals. According to the bank, this is because it has managed risk better. Lehmans collapse has also stoked fears that as a wave of its assets hit the market, Barclays and its peers face more writedowns.Barclays shares tumbled 11 percent to 311 pence by 4:30 p.m. on Monday as banks around the world were knocked by uncertainty about the counterparty trading risk left in Lehmans wake. Barclays was hit harder than most due to its sizeable overall trading position, analysts said.Barclays said it could not reach a deal on Lehman that was attractive for its shareholders, echoing its line after it refused to raise a near 60 billion euro offer for Dutch bank ABN AMRO last year, when it was trumped by a consortium led by rival Royal Bank of Scotland .Missing out on ABN raised questions at the time about its strategy.CEO John Varley wants overseas earnings to account for 75 percent of profits in the future, up from half now and only 20 percent in 2003. But he has banned past talk of becoming one of the biggest five global banks, preferring an aspiration to match best standards across its peer group.
